8 February 2018 
EMA/254364/2018 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report  
Referral under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Retinoids containing medicinal products 
INN: Acitretin, Adapalene, Alitretinoin, Bexarotene, Isotretinoin, Tretinoin, 
Tazarotene  
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-31/1446 
Panretin EMEA/H/A-31/1446/C/000279/0037 
Targretin EMEA/H/A-31/1446/C/000326/0043 
Note:  
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Table of contents ......................................................................................... 2 
1. Information on the procedure ................................................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 5 
2.3. Data on efficacy ................................................................................................... 5 
2.4. Data on safety ..................................................................................................... 5 
2.4.1. Teratogenic effects – oral retinoids ...................................................................... 5 
2.4.2. Teratogenic effects – topical retinoids ................................................................ 12 
2.4.3. Neuropsychiatric disorders - oral retinoids .......................................................... 12 
2.4.4. Neuropsychiatric disorders - topical retinoids ...................................................... 13 
2.5. Stakeholders input and other data ........................................................................ 14 
2.5.1. Eudravigilance analysis .................................................................................... 14 
2.5.2. Meeting with patients and healthcare professionals .............................................. 14 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 15 
4. Risk management .................................................................................. 17 
4.1. Pharmacovigilance activity ................................................................................... 17 
4.1.1. Non-interventional studies ................................................................................ 17 
4.2. Risk minimisation activities .................................................................................. 17 
4.2.1. Amendments to the product information ............................................................. 17 
4.2.2. Pregnancy prevention programme ..................................................................... 19 
4.2.3. Educational materials ....................................................................................... 20 
4.2.4. Direct Healthcare Professional Communications/Communication plan ..................... 21 
4.2.5. Additional channels to improve distribution/receipt of information/educational 
materials ................................................................................................................. 22 
4.2.6. Additional monitoring ....................................................................................... 22 
5. Condition(s) to the marketing authorisations ........................................ 22 
6. Grounds for Recommendation ............................................................... 23 
References ................................................................................................ 24 
Divergent position(s) ................................................................................ 26 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 2/29 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Information on the procedure 
On 7 July 2016 the United Kingdom triggered a referral under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC 
resulting from pharmacovigilance data, and requested the PRAC to review the routine risk minimisation 
in place for the oral and topical retinoids to ensure the available data and the risks associated with the 
adverse teratogenic effects and neuropsychiatric disorders are accurately and consistently addressed 
within the product information where appropriate and justified by data. Furthermore, the PRAC was 
requested to review any additional risk minimisation measures to ensure that these are optimal in 
terms of provision of information and delivery of effective risk management that is subject to 
appropriate monitoring. The PRAC was requested to assess the impact of the above concerns on the 
benefit-risk balance of retinoid-containing medicinal products and issue a recommendation on whether 
the products should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked. 
After reviewing all the available data to address the concerns discussed, the PRAC adopted its 
recommendation on 8 February 2018 that will be sent to the Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP).  
2.  Scientific discussion  
2.1.  Introduction 
Retinoids are natural or synthetic vitamin A derivatives with pleiotropic effects that regulate cell 
differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis. First-generation retinoids include retinol tretinoin (all-trans-
retinoic acid) isotretinoin (13-cis-retinoic acid) and alitretinoin (9-cis-retinoic acid). Second-generation 
retinoids also known as aromatic retinoids were created by alteration of the cyclic end group and 
include acitretin. Third-generation retinoids contain further modifications and are called arotinoids. 
Members of this generation include tazarotene and bexarotene. Adapalene a derivative of naphthoic 
acid with retinoid-like properties does not fit precisely into any of the three generations.  
Pregnancy is an absolute contraindication in the SmPCs for all oral retinoids in the EU. A referral in 
2003 for isotretinoin led to introduction of a pregnancy prevention programme (PPP) in the EU. Since 
the introduction of the PPP for isotretinoin similar programmes have been introduced for the other oral 
retinoids used to treat dermatological conditions. The effectiveness of these PPPs has been kept under 
close review and although a reduction in the number of pregnancies exposed to these retinoids has 
been observed cases of pregnancies exposed to retinoids continue to occur.  
In January 2016, in the context of a Periodic Safety Update Report single assessment (PSUSA) 
procedure, the PRAC raised concerns about how the requirements of the PPP are followed in clinical 
practice, identifying areas that may impact on the effectiveness of the PPP. Consequently, the PRAC 
identified a need for a detailed assessment of compliance with the requirements of the PPP for 
isotretinoin. Subsequent discussions in the context of the PSUSAs for erythromycin plus isotretinoin 
topical gels and of acitretin have also highlighted that there are concerns about the consistency and 
effectiveness of existing risk minimisation measures for these products. 
Information was gathered from NCAs through a Non-Urgent Request for Information (NUI) showing  
that the majority but not all topical retinoids include a contraindication for use during pregnancy and 
that there are inconsistencies between products with the same active substance, between oral and 
topical retinoids products and between Member States (MS) as to the extent of the warnings and the 
risk minimisation measures in place for pregnancy prevention, confirmed the need to review product 
information and risk minimisation measures across the retinoid class to ensure those are accurately 
and consistently addressed within the product information.  
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 3/29 
 
 
 
 
With regard to the possible risk of neuropsychiatric disorders with retinoids the extent to which the 
association is attributable and the magnitude of any risk is unclear. New evidence has been evaluated 
as it has become available and, although subject to extensive reviews at MS level, it has not been 
subject to formal review at EU level since 2006. The product information (PI) for isotretinoin reflects a 
potential risk of neuropsychiatric disorders and highlighting the need for patients to be monitored. 
However, there are differences in the extent and the nature of warnings about neuropsychiatric 
reactions that exist within the isotretinoin product information. Other oral retinoids have similarly been 
associated with neuropsychiatric reactions and it would be important to consider whether appropriate 
warnings in the product information are provided for all retinoids and whether any additional risk 
minimisation measures are required. 
Consequently, on 7 July 2016 the United Kingdom triggered a referral under Article 31 of Directive 
2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data, and requested the PRAC to review the routine risk 
minimisation in place for the oral and topical retinoids to assess the impact of the above concerns on 
the benefit-risk balance of these products and issue a recommendation on whether their marketing 
authorisation should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked. 
The following table presents the substances which have been reviewed in the context of this referral, 
with their approved indications:  
ORAL RETINOIDS 
TOPICAL RETINOIDS 
Acitretin: Severe extensive psoriasis which is 
Adapalene: Topical treatment of acne vulgaris 
resistant to other forms of therapy; palmo-plantar 
where comedones, papules and pustules 
pustular psoriasis; severe congenital ichthyosis; 
predominate 
severe Darier's disease (keratosis follicularis) 
Alitretinoin: For use in adults who have severe 
Alitretinoin: Topical treatment of cutaneous 
chronic hand eczema that is unresponsive to 
lesions in patients with AIDS-related Kaposi’s 
treatment with potent topical corticosteroids 
sarcoma (KS) when lesions are not ulcerated or 
lymphoedematous, and treatment of visceral KS is 
not required, and lesions are not responding to 
systemic antiretroviral therapy, and radiotherapy 
or chemotherapy are not appropriate 
Isotretinoin: Severe forms of acne (such as 
Isotretinoin: Topical treatment of mild to 
nodular or conglobate acne or acne at risk of 
moderate, inflammatory and non-inflammatory 
permanent scarring) resistant to adequate 
acne vulgaris 
courses of standard therapy with systemic anti-
bacterials and topical therapy 
Bexarotene: Treatment of skin manifestations of 
Tazarotene: Topical treatment of mild to 
advanced stage cutaneous T-cell lymphoma 
moderate plaque psoriasis involving up to 10% 
(CTCL) in adult patients refractory to at least one 
body surface area. 
systemic treatment 
Tretinoin: Treatment of genetically diagnosed 
Tretinoin: Topical treatment of acne vulgaris 
acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) 
when comedones, papules and pustules are 
present in patients 12 years or older 
PRAC considered the totality of the available data, including responses from marketing authorisation 
holders, submitted with regard to the consistency and effectiveness of existing routine and additional 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 4/29 
 
 
 
 
 
risk minimisation measures for oral and topical retinoid containing medicinal products in relation to 
adverse teratogenic effects and neuropsychiatric disorders. In addition, PRAC considered the views of 
patients and healthcare professionals for the understanding and the awareness of the teratogenic risk 
associated with the use of retinoid-containing medicines. The following report summarises the most 
relevant data.  
2.2.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.  Data on efficacy 
The efficacy of oral and topical retinoids in their authorised indication(s) has been well established and 
is detailed in each product information. The aim of this referral procedure was specifically to address 
questions related to the safety of retinoid containing medicines and no questions were asked in relation 
to the efficacy of these products. No new efficacy data have been provided for this referral procedure 
by the MAHs and no efficacy concerns arose from the assessment of the data presented.  
2.4.  Data on safety 
2.4.1.  Teratogenic effects – oral retinoids 
The teratogenic effects of oral vitamin A derivatives are well established (Nau H., at al (2001)) and 
patients treated with these drugs may include women of child-bearing potential (WCBP) (Lipson AH, at 
al. (1993). Retinoic acid embryopathy include central nervous system abnormalities (hydrocephalus, 
microcephaly), external ear abnormalities (anotia, microtia or absent external auditory meatus), 
cardiovascular abnormalities (septal wall and aortic defects), facial dysmorphia (cleft palate), eye 
abnormalities (microphthalmia), thymus gland and bone abnormalities (Lipson AH, at al. (1993). 
The data suggest that the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes is more strongly associated with the 
oral retinoids than the topical retinoids (Raguideau, F., at al. (2015)). Animal reproductive toxicity data 
for the oral retinoids demonstrate a typical pattern of retinoid embryopathy (Johnson EM., at al 
(1997)). Human data on congenital malformations after oral retinoid exposure shows a significant risk 
of retinoid embryopathy (of up to 30% of foetuses exposed); furthermore it is known that 
approximately one-third of pregnant patients will undergo spontaneous abortions (Nau H., at al 
(2001)). Pregnancy is an absolute contraindication for all oral retinoids in the EU.  
In 2003, as a conclusion to an Article 30 of Directive 2001/83/EC referral, it was agreed that oral 
isotretinoin should only be prescribed to WCBP under strict pregnancy prevention measures supported 
by a Pregnancy Prevention Programme (PPP). Pregnancy prevention measures, including Pregnancy 
Prevention Programmes have been implemented by marketing authorisation holders of different oral 
retinoids products, albeit inconsistently and with different levels of information.  
Despite the introduction of PPPs for some products, cases of pregnancy during treatment with oral 
retinoids continue to be reported in the EU. Several studies have considered the effectiveness of the 
PPP for isotretinoin and several publications describe poor compliance particularly with the pregnancy 
testing and use of contraception (Crijns, H. J., et al. (2012); Veyries, M. (2015); Henry, D., et al. 
(2016)).   
Concerning acitretin, a cohort study (Raguideau, F., et al. (2015)) conducted in France between 2007 
and 2012 also highlighted concerns about poor compliance with pregnancy testing requirements for 
acitretin. 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 5/29 
 
 
 
 
The number of pregnancies since the date of first marketing, as presented by the MAHs, was assessed 
cumulatively and respectively as follows: 
•  Acitretin: 442 pregnancy cases (132 related to conception during treatment, 260 after 
completing treatment); 
•  Alitretinoin: 17 pregnancy cases (12 related to conception during treatment, 4 more than one 
month after stopping treatment); 
• 
Isotretinoin: 7968 pregnancy cases from all sources (the majority of cases from USA). 
These  data  however  are  considered  to  be  largely  underestimated  because  of  the  limitations  of  the 
pharmacovigilance system which is not designed to collect pregnancy occurrence.  
Unfortunately the majority of cases reporting malformations lack information regarding contraceptive 
measures, which makes it difficult to assess patient adherence to recommendations.  
Compliance with the PPP is crucial to a positive benefit/risk balance for these products in women of 
child-bearing potential; therefore, the adequacy of the existing pregnancy prevention measures for the 
oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin has been reviewed in order to ensure that the 
available materials effectively encourage use of contraception, regular pregnancy testing and shared 
responsibility between patients, doctors and pharmacists in adhering to recommendations, and that 
this is done consistently and effectively for all products. Further consideration has also been given to 
the package labelling to reinforce key messages. Furthermore, specific studies to measure 
effectiveness of the agreed changes to the PPP have been imposed on the marketing authorisation 
holders as an outcome of the referral. 
Considering the particular oncological indications of oral tretinoin and oral bexarotene, further risk 
minimisation measure (RMM) for these products regarding teratogenic effects might be seen as an 
extra and unnecessary burden for patients and healthcare professional (HCPs). For these particular 
populations, strengthening the product information (PI) and additional risk minimisation measure 
(aRMM) would not provide an added value given the specialist management, the population at risk and 
the nature of the illness. In particular, oral tretinoin is used in the context of a life-threatening illness 
that will be subject to specialist care in the hospital setting and oral bexarotene is indicated for use in a 
patient population that is generally not of reproductive age. 
Adequacy of existing PPP and proposals for updates 
Pregnancy prevention programme (PPP) materials, which clearly convey the risks and the importance 
of strict adherence to the pregnancy prevention measures, are essential to reinforce the 
communication between HCP and patients. Real patient engagement and consequently greater 
compliance with the PPP can only be achieved with a clear exchange of information. 
Where oral retinoids currently have PPPs, the PPP materials are known to be inconsistent between the 
different active substances and also between products containing the same active substance. To this 
effect, PRAC agreed that the material should be simplified and harmonised across active substances 
and be tailored to each type of recipient, i.e. patients, physicians and pharmacists, and include the 
following set of key messages: 
a.  Teratogenicity risk – what it means to the unborn fetus; 
b.  Contraception – understanding the ‘risk period’, and what measures need to be observed 
during this risk period; 
c.  Pregnancy testing – why this is important, and why ideally 30-day prescriptions are required.  
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 6/29 
 
 
 
 
The patients and healthcare professionals consulted during the procedure indicated that specialists 
managing patients who take oral retinoids are experienced in the use of these products. It was 
therefore agreed that the materials should be simplified with the key objective of best supporting 
discussions without providing unnecessary information that physicians are already aware of or can 
access from other sources such as the SmPC.  
Some  key  components  of  the  PPP  and  the  different  elements  of  the  additional  risk  minimisation 
measures,  including  a  discussion  on  the  use  of  different  electronic  dissemination  channels,  are 
presented below: 
30-day prescription requirement  
The aim of this referral procedure was to enhance compliance with the PPP to guarantee patient safety, 
however, it is recognized that any obligations of the PPP need to be workable in clinical practice and in 
this respect need to provide for an element of clinical discretion based on the individual circumstances 
of the WCBP. The PPP conditions should also be practicable in relation to the different MS healthcare 
system practices. The importance of this was reinforced through the consultation with the HCP and 
patient stakeholder group who considered that restrictive conditions such as those of the iPLEDGE PPP 
for isotretinoin in the USA should be avoided.  
Several elements of the PPP such as the feasibility of monthly follow-up visits, monthly medically 
supervised pregnancy testing, the limitation of the prescription to a 30-day supply and the 7-day 
prescription validity, are known to be a challenge in some MS. Furthermore, the differences in MS 
healthcare systems will greatly influence how viable it is to implement each of these conditions. Lastly, 
the woman’s individual circumstances also need to be evaluated in order to determine the optimal 
approach to follow-up and monitoring. Therefore, whilst it was recognised that there should be regular 
follow-up, which ideally should be on a monthly basis, there may be situations where this is not 
absolutely essential (e.g. WCBP who is established on a highly effective form of contraception such as 
an implant or intrauterine device). Therefore, it was considered that the conditions of the PPP should 
provide an element of clinical discretion with regards to the prescription duration according to the 
patient's situation and risk of becoming pregnant. 
In order to minimize the risk for the unborn child it is crucial to detect an eventual pregnancy under 
treatment as early as possible and this can only be achieved if pregnancy tests are performed 
regularly. Consequently, follow-up visits should be arranged at regular intervals, and to support this 
regular follow-up, the prescription duration should ideally be limited to 30 days but it is recognized that 
flexibility might be necessary. 
7 day-prescription validity  
The 7-day prescription validity was introduced as a result of the 2003 isotretinoin Art. 30 referral. The 
original intention of this was to encourage patients to obtain their prescription in a timely manner so 
that the results of the pregnancy test remained valid and that dispensing occurred as close as possible 
to such testing.  
Healthcare professionals and several MS have highlighted that this measure could not always be 
ensured at pharmacy level; moreover imposing 7 days may not be in line with the national legal 
validity of medical prescriptions in some MS.  
It is essential that the initial pregnancy test is performed correctly to exclude a pregnancy and that 
contraception is initiated immediately thereafter; the initiation of retinoid treatment immediately after 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 7/29 
 
 
 
 
 
the pregnancy test however is not critical. Any measures in this respect need to be practicable, 
considering the possible differences between Member State healthcare systems and legislation.  
In light of all the above considerations, the PRAC was of the opinion that the product information and 
educational materials key messages will not specify the 7 day validity of the prescription across the EU. 
The PRAC acknowledged, however, the differences between healthcare systems in the EU, where in 
some member states the 7 days validity rule is already in place.  PRAC was of the opinion that national 
provisions different than the PI and the educational material key messages could be retained, subject 
to the NCA scrutiny.   
Two forms of contraception 
The requirement for two forms of contraception was discussed during the referral and it was 
considered whether taking further measures to strengthen the requirements of the PPP in this respect 
would necessarily lead to enhanced compliance. It was stressed that individual circumstances should 
always be evaluated in each case. Additionally, it was recognized that imposing two forms of 
contraception may not have the desired effect as two methods with poor compliance (e.g. condom with 
CHC) are by definition not safer than appropriate use of one highly effective method (e.g. intra-uterine 
device). Therefore, the PRAC agreed that a user-independent method such as an implant or an 
intrauterine device is the preferred contraceptive option and that updates to the SmPC and PL and 
educational materials were required to clarify this. 
Medically supervised pregnancy testing  
The first pregnancy test, prior to the first prescription needs to be medically supervised. 
Thereafter, where indicated, follow-up pregnancy tests should be performed on the day of the 
prescribing visit or in the 3 days prior to the visit to the prescriber. This allows for appropriate clinical 
discretion but guarantees that patients will get their prescription in a timely way in order that the 
results of the pregnancy test remain valid. 
A pregnancy test needs to be performed at a specified time period following the end of treatment, 
which is determined based on the metabolism of the product and is one month for alitretinoin and 
isotretinoin and 3 years for acitretin.   
Educational materials 
The following table presents the agreed changes to the documents constituting the PPP educational 
materials (EM) (please see enclosure 5): 
Previous educational 
Final agreed educational materials 
materials 
Patient materials 
Patient brochure and 
Patient reminder card 
Contraception advice 
brochure 
Objectives:  
a) support discussion with HCP;  
b) act as a reminder and support 
discussions at dispensing level;  
c) present the key principles of the PPP;  
d) to record visits, pregnancy test results 
and contraception method by means of an 
appointment table*.  
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 8/29 
 
 
 
 
 
Previous educational 
Final agreed educational materials 
materials 
*Inclusion of appointment table will be left at 
the discretion of MS. 
Physician materials 
Physician guide, Physician 
Physician checklist/acknowledgement form  
checklist and 
Acknowledgement form 
Objectives:  
a) support discussions with patient;  
b) present the key principles of the PPP;  
c) to record* that those discussions have 
taken place. 
*Implementation of the signature will be left at 
the discretion of the MS.  
Pharmacist materials 
Pharmacist brochure 
Pharmacist checklist* 
Objectives:  
a) support pharmacist assessment of PPP 
obligations;  
b) to instruct patients not to share 
medicine with others; to return unused 
medicine and not to donate blood. 
*The implementation of the pharmacist 
checklist will be left at the discretion of the MS. 
Patient Reminder Card (PRC) 
A patient reminder card will be required with the ultimate goal of supporting discussions at the level of 
prescribing and dispensing, thereby improving adherence to the PPP. The PRAC and stakeholders 
discussed in particular the content, placement and distribution of the PRC to achieve this goal. There 
was no consensus from the stakeholders on that point. The card given by the prescriber will act as an 
useful reminder of the key elements of the discussions. Having the PRC given with each package would 
guarantee that every patient receives a card and placing it on the outside of the pack means it could 
be easily removed and therefore could also support the discussion with the pharmacist at the time of 
dispensing. However, in itself this does not guarantee that it is seen and read by the patient as it 
cannot be guaranteed that the patient will read the PL  or PRC. Also, having the card on the outside of 
the package will mean that patients receive multiple cards with every new package, even if they are 
not the target population, such as men or women with no chance to get pregnant.  
The PRC brings together all the relevant information for the patient and will be of a small size, allowing 
it to be carried by the patient on a daily basis.  
The provision of the PRC to patients (e.g. by the physician, inside the pack, outside the pack, the 
method of dissemination etc.) should ensure that this material supports clear discussions about the 
treatment. In light of different healthcare practices across the EU, the PRAC agreed that these aspects 
of the implementation in each MS is to be determined by the respective competent authority. The 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 9/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
agreements at national level should always be made with the aforementioned goal in mind of how best 
to support HCP-patient discussion.  
The utility of including an appointment table in the PRC was discussed, with stakeholders questioned 
on this point. There was no consensus from the stakeholders on that point. Although it was noted to be 
of potential use by some, it was also mentioned that in some MS appointments are made via texts and 
phone calls. In view of these reflections, the PRAC concluded that the decision to include an 
appointment table to register dates and test results should be left at the discretion of the national 
competent authority taking due consideration of the existing local practices. 
Prescriber and pharmacist checklists 
The materials for HCPs (physician and pharmacist) in the form of checklists are designed to enhance 
conversation with the patients and understanding of the PPP requirements, and increase the level of 
engagement with the PPP. The materials also serve as a reminder to align HCP involvement and focus 
on patient's compliance.  
The key elements of the physician checklist were agreed by the PRAC (please see enclosure 5); 
however, the decision as to whether or not the checklist should include a signature should be left to 
the discretion of MS in order to account for the differences in healthcare practices across the EU. The 
physician checklist/acknowledgement form will be easily recorded and accessible in the patient files for 
future reference.  
The pharmacist checklist is common to all oral retinoids with a PPP in place; its implementation is to be 
agreed by each relevant competent authority. 
Distribution of educational materials 
Materials should be available both in paper and electronically.  
Website/URL 
The benefits of having the PPP materials available online are generally acknowledged, and some MAHs 
already use their own websites to provide product information, but the amount of information provided 
differs between MAHs.  
Although there is no existing legal framework to enable the PRAC to impose the development of a 
common website, the PRAC strongly recommends that a common website be created which would 
contain the PPP materials for the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin. This would help to 
keep the pregnancy prevention message consistent across all products and prevent any confusion from 
differences in individual MAH materials.  
QR Code  
Quick Response (QR) codes are a type of 2D matrix barcode. QR codes can be scanned by devices such 
as smart phones and can be used as a quick link to URLs, images, music or videos. Article 62 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC allows for the inclusion of QR codes for the purpose of providing information to 
patients. The QR code could be included on either the outer packaging or on the package leaflet.  
The PRAC recognises that there are some limitations to the use of QR codes, such as their use by some 
demographics of the general population (e.g. elderly) and the potential for confusion, and space 
implications on packaging, with the 2D matrix code on the outer packaging for verification of the 
authenticity of medicines in the supply chain required as part of the falsified medicines directive 
(Directive 2011/62/EU).  
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 10/29 
 
 
 
 
 
In spite of these limitations, if the PPP materials are available via a common website then the use of a 
QR code to link to the PPP materials is supported by the PRAC. To overcome the issues related to the 
2D matrix code the package leaflet is considered to be the most appropriate place for the QR code to 
be included. The URL of the corresponding website should also be included for patients without the 
means to scan a QR code.   
Visual reminder (boxed warning/pictogram/symbol) 
A warning on the outer box (boxed warning) may be more easily understood than a symbol/pictogram 
alone. The use of boxed warnings in the SmPC, PL and the outer packaging is therefore recommended 
to guarantee the reinforcement of important messages regarding the teratogenic effects associated 
with the use of acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin; the need to use effective contraception, and the 
strict contraindication in pregnancy (please refer to Attachment 1, Amendments to the product 
information as recommended by the PRAC).   
The matter of including a symbol/pictogram on the packaging of medicines known to be teratogenic is 
one that has generated a wealth of debate across multiple regulatory procedures. 
There are several points in favour of the use of a pictogram in relation to the risk of teratogenicity:  
• 
• 
highlighting the risk to all patients, even before reading the PL;  
reminding the HCP about the need to inform that the product is teratogenic; and 
•  may encourage the patient to look for additional information about the risk, including through 
questions to relevant HCPs.  
In the context of this referral, the usefulness of a striking and visual reminder of the risk was 
acknowledged during the stakeholder meeting. 
However, the use of a pictogram also carries the risk of misinterpretation and that the intended 
message may not be adequately conveyed. In relation to the message regarding the teratogenic risk, 
the PRAC agrees that a pictogram alone cannot convey all the necessary information, such as the use 
of effective contraception and the need to avoid use during pregnancy. To guarantee a full 
understanding of the potential chosen pictogram/symbol, it would be important to accompany it with a 
brief explanatory text. 
From a regulatory standpoint it is important to ensure that any pictogram is appropriately understood 
and has been subject to user testing.  
In view of the available evidence from studies conducted specifically to test pregnancy warnings on 
medication packaging, the PRAC recommends that the validated boxed warning text may be 
accompanied by a symbol for the visual reminder and this should be included on the outer packaging 
for oral retinoids (acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin).  
The decision to implement a symbol/pictogram on the outer package in addition to the minimum visual 
text reminder (as above), and its graphic content should be taken at national level, considering cultural 
differences and national preferences on the implementation of symbol /pictogram and input from local 
patient representatives.  
Studies to measure the effectiveness of risk minimisation measures 
Regarding the monitoring of the effectiveness of these risk minimisation measures, and recognising the 
limitations with regards to the data recorded in healthcare databases, a drug utilisation study 
component (DUS) and a complementary survey study component are recommended (see section 5, 
Conditions to the marketing authorisations).  
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 11/29 
 
 
 
 
The study design should aim to evaluate and quantify the effectiveness of the RMM, and should include 
a pre- and post-implementation analysis and assessment. The MAHs are highly encouraged to 
collaborate in conducting this study. The protocols should be submitted for assessment by the PRAC 
within 3 months after Commission Decision. The results of the survey and of the DUS should be 
submitted within 48 months from Commission Decision. The MAHs are highly encouraged to 
collaborate in conducting this study conducted according to an agreed protocol 
In accordance with the Article 23 of the Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the products should therefore 
be included in the list of products for additional monitoring. The black symbol with the corresponding 
explanatory statement should be included in the product information of the products. 
2.4.2.  Teratogenic effects – topical retinoids 
During the procedure data to evaluate the systemic absorption of topical retinoids was assessed. This 
evaluation considered the available data in relation to impact of the extent and severity of skin 
disease, and the physiological changes associated with human pregnancy and in particular changes in 
skin blood flow. 
Based on the limited data available the PRAC concluded that the systemic absorption of topical 
retinoids is negligible and this is not affected to a clinically significant degree by the severity or extent 
of skin disease. Studies that examine the effects of human pregnancy on systemic absorption of topical 
retinoids are also lacking. However, there was a consensus that several other factors may contribute to 
an increased systemic exposure and therefore this cannot be excluded.  
Given that humans are the most sensitive species with respect to retinoid toxicity and considering the 
limitations of the available data with respect to understanding of systemic absorption and also the 
possible risks, it is appropriate to take a very precautious approach. The indications for the topical 
retinoids are non-life-threatening and there is no absolute clinical need for the treatment during 
pregnancy and it is important that pregnancy is excluded before prescribing.  
Considering the above, the PRAC considered that the balance of benefits and risks of topical retinoids 
in pregnancy is not favourable, and therefore recommended that use of topical retinoids should be 
contraindicated during pregnancy and in women planning a pregnancy. The SmPC and package leaflet 
should be updated accordingly (see Attachment 1) to ensure the available data and the risks 
associated with the teratogenic risk are accurately and consistently addressed within the product 
information.  
The wording proposed by the PRAC should be added or replaced as appropriate. Repeated information 
in other sections should be deleted. Where more extensive information already exists in the SmPC or 
package leaflet, it is considered that this should be retained unless it is more restrictive or contradicts 
the proposed wording by PRAC – in these cases that wording should be deleted. For clarification 
purposes, recommending the use of effective contraception to prevent pregnancy is considered more 
restrictive. 
2.4.3.  Neuropsychiatric disorders - oral retinoids 
Severe skin disorders (acne, psoriasis, chronic eczema, skin neoplasms) are known to be associated 
with an increased risk of psychiatric disorders, and may have a major impact on patients’ psychological 
state, social relationships and everyday activities. 
Regarding the oral products, in some studies the authors claim that data arising from pre-clinical, 
clinical and epidemiological data as well as data from literature reports and spontaneous reporting 
have failed to confirm the initial signal of a possible causal relationship between isotretinoin and 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 12/29 
 
 
 
 
psychiatric morbidity (Kaymak, Y., et al. (2009)). The authors also mention that these types of 
adverse events are reported rarely in patients receiving retinoids and there have been no consistent 
patterns identified, except that psychiatric disorders were mainly reported in the 13-24 year-old age 
group, which overlaps with the age of the patients receiving retinoids for acne. Moreover, recent 
studies concluded that successful treatment with oral isotretinoin was associated with an alleviation of 
depressive symptoms (Kaymak, Y., et al. (2009), Yesilova, Y., et al. (2012), Hahm, B. J., et al. 
(2009)). 
Given the nature of the psychiatric disorder, which may lead also to suicide, the negative impact on 
patient quality of life may be very high.  
Psychiatric disorders are very rarely reported [Research Report B-168’641, Drug Safety Issue Work-up 
1998]. Depression is a rarely reported side effect, while psychotic symptoms, suicide attempt and 
suicide are very rare.  
It is recognized that the available data have a number of important limitations that preclude the 
establishment of a clear causal association (many spontaneous cases confounded by concomitant 
medication and/or previous medical history of psychiatric disorders and epidemiological studies not 
able to rule out confounding by indication).  Nevertheless, the PRAC considered that the data from 
patients presented in case series and spontaneous case reports and the individual patients experience 
are considered to be very important. Taking into account the target patient population and the possible 
underlying risk of psychiatric disorders, it is advisable that patients taking oral retinoids be warned 
about the potential risk of psychiatric reactions and the signs and symptoms to look out for. The PRAC 
therefore agreed that all oral retinoids should contain a warning about the potential risk of 
neuropsychiatric disorders. Furthermore, particular care needs to be taken in patients with a history of 
depression and all patients should be monitored for signs of depression and referred for appropriate 
treatment as necessary. 
The current SmPC and PL for some products already contain information that reflects the reported 
cases. However, based on the data provided by the MAHs provided during this referral or previous 
PSURs and other concerns raised by third party intervention, it was recognized that the available 
information on the risk of psychiatric effects is not consistent across the entire class of oral retinoids. 
In view of this situation the PRAC agreed that a core warning is necessary across all oral retinoids. In 
addition it should be noted that psychotic symptoms and very rarely, suicidal ideation, suicide attempts 
and suicide have been reported for patients treated with isotretinoin and alitretinoin but not for 
acitretin, bexarotene or tretinoin.  
The available data therefore support that for the oral retinoids acitretin, bexarotene and tretinoin there 
be a warning in section 4.4 about the risk of neuropsychiatric disorders. For isotretinoin and alitretinoin 
the available data support that information in section 4.4 and 4.8, of the SmPC, should be in line with 
the agreed outcome of the 2003 Art 30 referral for isotretinoin.  
The  PI  for  all  products  containing  systemic  retinoids  should  be  updated  according  to  the  wording  in 
Attachment 1. 
2.4.4.  Neuropsychiatric disorders - topical retinoids 
Severe skin disorders (acne, psoriasis, chronic eczema, skin neoplasms) are known to be associated 
with an increased risk of psychiatric disorders and these may have a major impact on patients’ 
psychological state, social relationships and everyday activities. Physiological or pharmacological 
considerations fundamentally do not support systemic effects, such as neuropsychiatric disorders, of 
topical retinoids. The total dose of topically administered retinoid is far below the one achieved through 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 13/29 
 
 
 
 
food supplements containing its physiological precursor, namely vitamin A. Such products do not carry 
any warning on neuropsychiatric effects, as their safety is commonly regarded as established.  
The PRAC noted the extremely limited data relating to neuropsychiatric reactions after topical 
administration of retinoids. Given this and the negligible systemic exposure following topical use, the 
PRAC considered that no further risk minimization activities are deemed necessary. 
2.5.  Stakeholders input and other data 
2.5.1.  Eudravigilance analysis 
An Eudravigilance analysis was conducted to support the assessment on the neuropsychiatric disorders 
for the seven active substances included in this review (single or multi-ingredient formulations). A total 
of 10,295 case reports of acitretin, adapalene, alitretinoin, bexarotene, isotretinoin, tazarotene and 
tretinoin-containing medicinal products and any reaction in the Psychiatric SOC in EV was reported up 
to 19 July 2016.  
Oral route of administration was the most frequently reported route of administration. Case reports 
tend to refer more frequently to patients of male gender. In all age groups, up until the 30-34 age 
groups, there are more reports of male patients (the difference is greater between ages 15-29). This 
trend inverts from the age of 35, and from then onwards female gender is always more reported, apart 
from the age group 75-79 which has the same counts for both genders. 
During 2010 and 2012, there was a large increase in the count of case reports with the largest peak in 
2011 which correlates with a substantive increase in the case report from non-healthcare 
professionals. From 2013 onwards the reporting returned to levels similar to those of  1998-2009. 
Overall, the nature of the EV data and trends in reporting are in-line with what is already known for 
the products of concern. 
2.5.2.  Meeting with patients and healthcare professionals 
A meeting with stakeholders was organised as part of the review in order to enhance interaction and 
exchange of information with a focus on understanding the patients’ and HCPs' perspective on the 
communication, awareness and understanding of the risks of retinoids during pregnancy and in women 
of childbearing potential and to explore their views on options for improving risk communication. A list 
of questions to be addressed by HCPs and patient representatives was adopted by the PRAC and a 
meeting with a broad representation of stakeholders was organised on 3 March 2017. 
The main feedback from the meeting is summarised below: 
• 
PPP format is outdated. Messages could be clearer and simpler. Educational materials should 
be reduced and merged; 
•  Use of technological advancements in communications is lacking; 
•  Message should be stronger regarding the severity of risk and options if pregnancies do occur 
e.g. using images showing malformation and/or a pictogram recognised across the EU to 
identify medicines with a teratogenic risk; 
• 
• 
Further strengthening the conditions of the PPP in itself would not lead to enhanced 
compliance; 
Inconsistencies between PPPs were highlighted but also the need to differentiate where needed 
(e.g. oral vs topical; isotretinoin vs acitretin with regards to duration of teratogenic risk); 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 14/29 
 
 
 
 
•  Management of patients’ needs strong multi-disciplinary collaboration to enhance compliance; 
•  Understanding why and which patients fail to follow PPP will also enhance compliance; 
•  Constant reinforcement of messages is critical (currently lacking with paper-based PPP) – use 
outer packaging, patient cards and digital tech; 
•  On-line pharmacy highlighted as risk - retinoids are obtained online without a prescription and 
where PPP information is lacking; 
• 
It should be reminded to young male patients not to share pills, which can lead to pregnancy. 
The same stakeholders were further consulted in writing during the last round of the assessment to 
provide their views on the clarity of the message in the educational materials, and the details 
surrounding the content and distribution logistics of the Patient Reminder Card. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
The PRAC reviewed all available data from pre-clinical studies, pharmacovigilance data, published 
literature and spontaneous reports on the risks associated with the adverse teratogenic effects and 
neuropsychiatric disorders of oral and topical retinoids. In addition, the views of patients and 
healthcare professionals regarding communication, awareness and understanding of the risks of 
retinoids during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential were taken into account in the 
recommendation along with their views on options for improving risk communication. 
The review confirms the already known teratogenic risks associated with the use of oral retinoids in 
pregnant women. The data suggest that the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes is more strongly 
associated with the oral retinoids than the topical retinoids. The animal reproductive toxicity data for 
the oral retinoids demonstrate a typical pattern of retinoid embryopathy. The human data on 
congenital malformations after oral retinoid exposure shows a significant risk of retinoid embryopathy 
(of up to 30% of fetuses exposed); furthermore it is known that approximately one-third of pregnant 
patients exposed to oral retinoids during pregnancy will have spontaneous abortions. Pregnancy is an 
absolute contraindication for all oral retinoids in the EU. 
The PRAC noted that despite the introduction of pregnancy prevention measures, including PPPs, cases 
of pregnancy during treatment with oral retinoid continue to be reported in the EU. 
Compliance with the PPP is crucial to a positive benefit/risk balance for these products; therefore, the 
adequacy of the pregnancy prevention measures, including PPPs, for the oral retinoids acitretin, 
alitretinoin and isotretinoin has been reviewed to ensure that the available materials effectively 
encourage contraception use, regular pregnancy testing and shared responsibility between patients, 
doctors and pharmacists in adhering to recommendations, and that this is communicated consistently 
and effectively for all products. Furthermore, specific studies to measure effectiveness of the agreed 
changes to the PPP have been imposed on the marketing authorisation holders as an outcome of the 
referral. 
In this respect, the PRAC recommended amendments to the product information, including 
harmonising the warnings and precautions of use for the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and 
isotretinoin to reflect the teratogenic risk associated with their use and communication to healthcare 
professionals through a direct healthcare professional communication. In addition, the PRAC 
recommended changes to the educational materials for the oral retinoids (acitretin, alitretinoin and 
isotretinoin)) to ensure healthcare professionals and patients are informed about the risks associated 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 15/29 
 
 
 
 
 
with oral retinoids (acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin) in pregnant women and women of child-
bearing potential and on the measures necessary to minimise the risk. These include a patient 
reminder card, physician checklist/acknowledgement form and pharmacist checklist ensuring the 
understanding and the awareness of prescribers and patients on the risks. The PRAC has also 
recommended that educational materials be distributed via electronic channels such as QR codes, and 
websites to make better use of the existing technology bearing in mind the young patient population 
using these products. 
The PRAC acknowledged that the implementation of the following elements of the PPP need to be 
considered and agreed at national level to account for the different healthcare systems in the EU:  
• 
• 
The implementation of the 7-day prescription validity rule, in order not to impact on existing 
national legislation where the 7 days validity exists; 
Patient signature of the physician checklist/acknowledgement form; 
•  Dissemination of the patient reminder card; 
• 
• 
• 
Pharmacist checklist; 
Inclusion of appointment table in the patient reminder card; 
The option of a pictogram/symbol to accompany the box warning wording and to be included in 
the visual reminder on the outer package to warn patients about the harm to unborn baby and 
the need for effective contraception when using the medicinal product. 
PRAC considered that given the oncological indications of oral tretinoin and oral bexarotene, further 
risk minimisation measure (RMM) for these products regarding teratogenic effects, such as 
strengthening the product information (PI) and additional risk minimisation measure (aRMM) would not 
provide an added value given the specialist management, the population at risk and the nature of the 
illness. 
The PRAC noted the systemic exposure is negligible following topical application of retinoids and that 
this does not appear to be affected to a clinically significant degree by the severity or extent of skin 
disease. Studies that examine the effects of human pregnancy on systemic absorption of topical 
retinoids are also lacking. However, there was a consensus that several other factors may contribute to 
an increased systemic exposure and therefore the risk cannot be excluded.  
Given that humans are the most sensitive species with respect to retinoid toxicity and considering the 
limitations of the available data with respect to understanding of systemic absorption and also the 
possible risks, the PRAC, considers that it is appropriate to take a very precautious approach. The 
indications for the topical retinoids are non-life-threatening and there is no absolute clinical need for 
the treatment during pregnancy and pregnancy should be excluded before prescribing. The PRAC 
thereby concludes that the benefit-risk balance of topical retinoids in pregnancy is not favourable, and 
therefore recommends that use of topical retinoids should be contraindicated during pregnancy and in 
women planning a pregnancy. 
The PRAC recognizes that the available data in relation to oral retinoids and the occurrence of 
neuropsychiatric disorders have a number of important limitations that preclude the establishment of a 
clear causal association. Nevertheless, the PRAC considers that the data from patients presented in 
case series, spontaneous case reports and individual patients' experiences are considered to be very 
important. Although the underlying risk of psychiatric disorders within the patient populations can be 
significant, it is advisable that patients taking oral retinoids are warned about the potential risk of 
psychiatric reactions and the signs and symptoms to look out for. Therefore, the PRAC agrees that all 
oral retinoids should contain a warning about the potential risk of neuropsychiatric disorders in line 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 16/29 
 
 
 
 
with some key principles. The data support that for isotretinoin and alitretinoin the information in 
section 4.4 and 4.8, of the SmPC, should be in line with the agreed outcome of the 2003 Art 30 
referral for isotretinoin.  
The PRAC further noted the extremely limited data relating to neuropsychiatric reactions after topical 
administration of retinoids. Given this and the negligible systemic exposure following topical no further 
risk minimization activities are deemed necessary. 
Overall, the PRAC concludes that the benefit-risk balance of medicinal products containing retinoids 
remains favourable, but that marketing authorisation(s) should be varied for both the oral and topical 
retinoids to ensure risks associated with the adverse teratogenic effects and neuropsychiatric disorders 
are accurately and consistently addressed, as appropriate.  
4.  Risk management 
4.1.  Pharmacovigilance activity 
4.1.1.  Non-interventional studies 
 The PRAC agreed that the MAHs for the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin should 
provide revised proposals, including study synopses, for studies to monitor the effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures particularly with regards to patient and prescriber awareness and adherence to 
the PPP and its risk minimisation measures.  
This should comprise a post-authorisation drug utilisation study (imposed as a condition to the MA, 
category 1). This component is to understand compliance with appropriate drug use and the impact on 
this. The study design should aim to evaluate and quantify the effectiveness of the RMM, and should 
include a pre- and post-implemented analysis and assessment.  
In addition, the PRAC also requested to conduct a post-authorisation survey study (requested as 
category 3) to provide complementary information on the prescriber and patient awareness of the PPP 
and its risk minimisation measures. The survey should assess patients’ and prescribers’ awareness and 
adherence to the pregnancy prevention programme. A survey study could also capture data on the use 
of non-prescription or non-reimbursed contraceptive use which would not be recorded in healthcare 
databases as part of the DUS.  
The results of the survey and of the DUS should be submitted within 48 months from EC Decision. 
Joint studies to be conducted by all concerned MAHs are strongly encouraged. 
4.2.  Risk minimisation activities 
4.2.1.  Amendments to the product information 
The PRAC considered that routine risk minimisation measures in the form of updates to the product 
information would be necessary in order to minimise the teratogenic risk associated with the use of 
oral and topical retinoid-containing medicinal products, and the neuropsychiatric risk associated with 
the risk of oral retinoid-containing medicinal products. The changes to sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.6 and 4.8 of 
the SmPC in relation to the different retinoids are as summarised below: 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 17/29 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.1.1.  Teratogenic risk associated with the use of retinoids  
The PRAC considered that: 
• 
the warnings and precautions of use for the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin 
should be revised and other important information harmonised to reflect the teratogenic risk 
associated with their use;  
•  A boxed warning for the outer packaging of the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin 
should be included with the following key messages: 
-  CAN SERIOUSLY HARM AN UNBORN BABY 
-  Women must use effective contraception 
-  Do not use if you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant 
• 
the use of topical retinoids should be contraindicated in pregnancy and in women planning a 
pregnancy and the section on fertility, pregnancy and breastfeeding amended accordingly. 
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly.  
4.2.1.2.  Neuropsychiatric risks associated with the use retinoids 
The PRAC considered: 
• 
• 
the warnings and precautions of use for all oral retinoids should be revised and information 
included to reflect the possible neuropsychiatric risk associated with the use of retinoids ,  
the following adverse reaction(s) should be added under the SOC Psychiatric disorders of the oral 
retinoids alitretinoin and isotretinoin with a frequency: 
-  Rare: Depression, depression aggravated, aggressive tendencies, anxiety, mood alteration.  
-  Very rare:  Suicide, suicide attempt, suicidal ideation, psychotic disorder, abnormal 
behaviour 
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly.  
The overall changes to the product information of oral and topical retinoid-containing medicines are 
summarised in the following table: 
Teratogenic risk 
Neuropsychiatric risk 
Oral retinoids 
SmPC section 
4.3** 
4.4 
4.6 
4.4* 
4.8 
Acitretin 
Alitretinoin 
Isotretinoin 
Bexarotene 
Tretinoin 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X* 
X* 
X 
X 
X 
X 
SmPC section 
4.3 
4.4 
4.6 
4.4* 
4.8 
Topical retinoids 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 18/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Teratogenic risk 
Neuropsychiatric risk 
All topical retinoids 
X 
X 
* Differentiated wording for alitretinoin, isotretinoin vs. acitretin, bexarotene and tretinoin. 
** Oral retinoids already contain appropriate contraindications. 
4.2.2.  Pregnancy prevention programme 
The PRAC recommended that the use of the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin, isotretinoin in WCBP 
should be subject to stringent restrictions to prevent exposure during pregnancy in view of the 
teratogenicity due to retinoids. In order to achieve this, the PRAC agreed that an educational 
pregnancy prevention programme (PPP) should be in place for oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and 
isotretinoin.  
The PPP is aimed at: 
• 
Increasing awareness about the teratogenicity risk during treatment with oral retinoids containing 
acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin and providing guidance on how to manage that risk; 
•  Ensuring that the patient is informed about contraception, and has a full understanding of the ‘risk 
period’, and what measures need to be observed through this risk period;  
• 
Informing the patient about pregnancy testing requirements, to ensure they understand why it is 
important, and why 30-day prescriptions ideally are required. 
The PPP will include the following conditions: 
Individual patient and prescriber discussion should take place to guarantee patient engagement, 
discuss therapeutic options and ensure the patient understanding of the risks and the measures 
needed to minimise the risks. 
The hazards and necessary precautions associated with retinoids use during pregnancy are presented 
in the risk acknowledgement form and the patient reminder card which should be provided to the 
patients.  
The prescribers must ensure that the patient has understood and acknowledged the risks of congenital 
malformations including the magnitude of these risks for children exposed to a retinoid in utero.  
Pregnancy testing should be performed prior to initiation of treatment, ideally monthly during 
treatment and after stopping treatment For alitretinoin and isotretinoin pregnancy testing needs to be 
performed one month after stopping treatment. For acitretin, women should undergo pregnancy test 
periodically with 1-3 monthly intervals for a period of 3 years after stopping treatment. The patient 
should be capable of complying with an effective contraceptive treatment/method, without interruption 
during the entire duration of treatment with oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin, isotretinoin and for 1 
month [3 years for acitretin] after the end of treatment 
These patients must be provided with comprehensive information on pregnancy prevention programme 
measures and should be referred for contraceptive advice if they are not using effective contraception. 
At least one effective method of contraception (preferably a user independent form such as an intra-
uterine device or implant) or two complementary forms of contraception including a barrier method 
should be used. Individual circumstances should be evaluated in each case, when choosing the 
contraception method involving the patient in the discussion, to guarantee her engagement and 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 19/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compliance with the chosen measures. In case of amenorrhea, the women should also be on effective 
contraception. 
In case of pregnancy while using the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin, isotretinoin, the treatment 
must be stopped and the patient be immediately referred to a physician specialized or experienced in 
teratology for evaluation and advice.  
Guidance and details on the conditions of the pregnancy prevention programme are reflected 
accordingly in the product information and in the updated educational materials (Physician’s checklist, 
pharmacist’s checklist and patient reminder card) described in this report. 
4.2.3.  Educational materials 
Prior to the use of oral retinoids containing acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin, the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder (MAH) must agree the content and format of the educational pregnancy 
prevention programme, including communication media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects 
of the programme, with the National Competent Authority.  
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where <PRODUCT NAME> is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients who are expected to prescribe, dispense or use <PRODUCT NAME> have 
access to/are provided with the following educational package, both available in paper and electronic 
forms, as applicable: 
•  Physician educational material comprised of: 
o  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
o  Prescriber checklist/acknowledgement form (inclusion of patient signature to be agreed 
at Member State level) 
•  The pharmacist educational material should contain: 
o  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
o  The pharmacist checklist (implementation to be agreed at Member State level) 
•  The patient information pack should contain: 
o  The patient information leaflet (PL) 
o  The patient reminder card (dissemination and inclusion of appointment table to be agreed 
at Member State level) 
The Prescriber checklist/acknowledgement form shall contain the following key messages: 
o  That the checklist must be completed for all female patients both at initial and follow-up 
visits and that a copy should be kept with the patient file.  
o  The need for the prescriber to ascertain whether the patient is a woman of child-bearing 
potential.  
o  A specific reference to the fact that <PRODUCT NAME> is contraindicated in pregnancy and 
that the patient has been informed and understands the teratogenic risks of <PRODUCT 
NAME>, e.g. central nervous system abnormalities, facial dysmorphia, cleft palate, 
external ear abnormalities, eye abnormalities, cardiovascular abnormalities, thymus gland 
abnormality, parathyroid gland abnormalities, increased risk of abortion, etc. 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 20/29 
 
 
 
 
o  The need to provide information on contraceptive choices to the patient, or to refer the 
patient to a gynaecologist or other suitable HCP if appropriate.  
o 
Information on the fact that contraception is also required for <one month> <three years> 
after treatment with <PRODUCT NAME>, has stopped.  
o  That the patient should stop the treatment and rapidly contact their prescriber or other 
health professional in case she suspects she may be pregnant.  
o  The need to perform a pregnancy test prior to initiating treatment, and periodically 
thereafter for the duration of the treatment and one month after stopping treatment <3 
years for acitretin> and that the first test should be supervised.  
o  To inform the patient that the product must not be shared with others.  
The pharmacist checklist shall contain the following key messages: 
o  A specific reference to the fact that <PRODUCT NAME> is contraindicated in pregnancy.  
o  To inform the patient that <PRODUCT NAME> must not be shared with others and to 
return any unused product to the pharmacist.  
o  The prescription of <PRODUCT NAME> is ideally limited to a maximum of 30 days' supply 
The patient reminder card shall contain the following key messages: 
o  That <PRODUCT NAME> is teratogenic and must not be taken during pregnancy.  
o  That women of child bearing potential should use a highly effective contraception method 
(i.e. a user-independent form such as an intra-uterine device or implant), or two 
complementary user-dependent forms of contraception such as oral contraceptive and 
barrier method. 
o  The need to perform periodic pregnancy tests for the duration of the treatment and <one 
month for alitretinoin and isotretinoin> <3 years for acitretin> after stopping treatment.  
o  To stop the treatment and inform the prescriber as soon as possible in case of suspected 
pregnancy.  
o  To inform the patient that <PRODUCT NAME> must not be shared with others and to 
return any unused product to the pharmacist.  
4.2.4.  Direct Healthcare Professional Communications/Communication 
plan 
The PRAC agreed that a direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) should be distributed to 
inform healthcare professionals of the results of this review and of the changes to the 
recommendations in the product information of both oral and topical retinoids as well as risk 
minimisation measures. Accordingly the PRAC agreed the core elements and communication plan of 
the DHPC. The specialists targeted are general practitioners, dermatologists, gynaecologists, 
psychiatrists and pharmacists (target group can be further completed/adapted at national level). The 
timing of distribution will be included in the Communication plan. 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 21/29 
 
 
 
 
4.2.5.  Additional channels to improve distribution/receipt of 
information/educational materials 
PRAC agreed that the availability of the educational materials should be available through both printed 
hard-copy and electronically. Stakeholder (including patients and HCPs) agreed that electronic aids 
(on-line information, ‘apps’) can be useful and helpful especially for younger women; however these 
should be seen as complementary tool and not to replace standards channels of communication. 
Electronic distribution of educational materials to HCPs in addition to distribution via post is supported 
by the PRAC. HCPs may have different preferences on how they would like to receive the materials 
(digital or hard copy).  
Pop-up alerts in prescribing and pharmacy dispensing software to remind HCP about the risks of 
retinoids and the need re-evaluate the use of oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin, isotretinoin in WCBP 
might be an effective strategy to reinforce the implementation of the risk minimisation measures and is 
supported by the PRAC, the possibilities of which should be explored at national level.   
4.2.6.  Additional monitoring 
In accordance with the Article 23 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 the products containing the oral 
retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin should be included in the list of products for additional 
monitoring. The black symbol with the corresponding explanatory statement should be included in the 
product information of these products. 
5.  Condition(s) to the marketing authorisations 
The marketing authorisation holder(s) for oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin shall 
complete the below conditions, within the stated timeframe, and competent authorities shall ensure 
that the following is fulfilled: 
A visual reminder on the outer package to warn patients about the 
harm to unborn baby and the need for effective contraception when 
using the medicinal product should be implemented in all medicinal 
products-containing oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and 
isotretinoin.  
The details of the visual reminder should be agreed at national level 
further to a user test taking into account input from local patient 
Within 3 months after 
representatives.  
Commission Decision 
The MAHs of oral retinoids containing acitretin, alitretinoin or 
isotretinoin shall develop and submit educational materials according 
to the agreed key elements. These materials should ensure that 
prescribers are informed and the patients understand and 
acknowledge the risks associated with oral retinoids acitretin, 
alitretinoin and isotretinoin in-utero exposure. These should be 
Within 1 month of 
submitted to the National Competent Authorities: 
Commission Decision. 
In order to assess the effectiveness of the updated risk minimisation 
measures in women of childbearing potential resulting from this 
referral procedure, MAH(s) of oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and 
isotretinoin should conduct and submit the results of a drug 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 22/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
utilisation study (DUS). The study design should aim to evaluate and 
quantify the effectiveness of the Risk Management Measures, and 
should include a pre- and post-implemented analysis and 
assessment. The clinical study report should be submitted to the 
Within 48 months after 
relevant National Competent Authorities:  
Commission Decision 
6.  Grounds for Recommendation  
Whereas, 
•  The Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) considered the procedure under 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC for retinoid-containing medicinal products.  
•  The PRAC considered the totality of the data submitted, including responses from the marketing 
authorisation holders with regard to the consistency and effectiveness of existing routine and 
additional risk minimisation measures for oral and topical retinoids-containing medicinal products 
in relation to teratogenic effects and neuropsychiatric disorders. In addition, the PRAC considered 
the views of patients and healthcare professionals in relation to their understanding and the 
awareness of the teratogenic risk associated with the use of retinoid-containing medicines.  
•  With regards to the teratogenic risk, the PRAC confirmed that all oral retinoids (acitretin, 
alitretinoin, bexarotene, isotretinoin and tretinoin) are highly teratogenic and therefore must 
continue to be contraindicated during pregnancy or in women of child bearing potential unless 
they are using effective contraception. Given the indications and patients populations that use 
acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin it was considered that any use of these oral retinoids in 
female patients at risk of pregnancy must be in accordance with the conditions of a pregnancy 
prevention programme (PPP).  For tretinoin and bexarotene, it was considered that in light of the 
oncological indications, specialist management in a hospital setting and population at risk that 
existing risk minimisation was appropriate and proportionate.  
•  The PRAC also concluded that there was a need to further harmonise and streamline the measures 
in the PPP including associated educational materials for the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin 
and isotretinoin to ensure these are optimal to support discussions between patients and 
healthcare professionals on the risks and the associated risk minimisation measures.  
•  The PRAC further considered that for the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and isotretinoin a drug 
utilisation study with a complementary survey should be conducted to assess the effectiveness of 
the proposed updated risk minimisation measures.  
•  A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) was also considered appropriate for all 
oral and topical retinoids.  
•  With regards to the teratogenic risk of topical retinoids (adapalene, alitretinoin, isotretinoin, 
tretinoin and tazarotene) the PRAC concluded that the data available show that after topical 
application, systemic exposure is expected to be negligible and unlikely to result in adverse fetal 
outcomes. However, given that humans are the most sensitive species to retinoid embryopathy 
and that several other factors may contribute to an increased systemic exposure, such as 
excessive use and damaged skin barrier, the PRAC agreed that the teratogenic risk cannot be 
completely excluded. The PRAC therefore recommended that the use of topical retinoids should be 
contraindicated during pregnancy and in women planning a pregnancy given the non-life 
threatening nature of the indications. 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 23/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  With regards to neuropsychiatric disorders, the PRAC noted the limitations of the available data 
and considered that a clear causal relationship could not be established with the oral retinoids. 
However, taking into account the target patient population, the PRAC recognised the possible 
underlying risk of psychiatric disorders, and therefore recommended some changes to the product 
information such as warnings and precautions and so that the current level of available evidence is 
appropriately reflected.  
•  Furthermore, the PRAC noted the extremely limited data relating to neuropsychiatric reactions 
after topical administration of retinoids. Given this and the negligible systemic exposure following 
topical use, the PRAC considered that no further risk minimization activities are deemed 
necessary.  
In view of the above, the PRAC considers that the benefit-risk balance of retinoid-containing medicinal 
products remains favourable subject to the agreed amendments to the product information and risk 
management plan, the conditions to the marketing authorisations and the related communication. 
The PRAC, as a consequence, recommends the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisations 
for retinoid-containing medicinal products.  
  References 
Crijns, H. J., at al. (2012). "Prescriptive contraceptive use among isotretinoin users in the Netherlands 
in comparison with non-users: a drug utilisation study." Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf 21(10): 1060-
1066. 
Hahm, B. J., at al. (2009). "Changes of psychiatric parameters and their relationships by oral 
isotretinoin in acne patients." J Dermatol 36(5): 255-261. 
Henry, D., at al. (2016). "Occurrence of pregnancy and pregnancy outcomes during isotretinoin 
therapy." CMAJ 188(10): 723-730. 
Johnson EM., at al (1997). “A risk assessment of topical tretinoin as a potential human developmental 
toxin based on animal and comparative human data”. J Am Acad Dermatol  36(3 Pt):S86-90. 
Kaymak, Y., at al. (2009). "Comparison of depression, anxiety and life quality in acne vulgaris patients 
who were treated with either isotretinoin or topical agents." Int J Dermatol 48(1): 41-46. 
Lipson, AH., at al. (1993). “Multiple congenital defects associated with maternal use of topical 
tretinoin.” Lancet 341(8856): 1352-3. 
Nau H., at al. (2001): “Teratogenicity of isotretinoin revisited: species variation and the role of 
alltrans- retinoic acid.” J Am Acad Dermatol 45: S183-S187. 
Raguideau, F., at al. (2015). "Compliance with pregnancy prevention plan recommendations in 8672 
French women of childbearing potential exposed to acitretin." Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf 24(5): 
526-533. 
Rothman, KF.at al. (1988). “Use of oral and topical agents for acne in pregnancy. J Am Acad Dermatol  
19:431–2 
Rowe, C., at al. (2014). "Isotretinoin and mental health in adolescents: Australian 
consensus." Australas J Dermatol 55(2): 162-167. 
Veyries, M. (2015). "Study of compliance with the isotretinoin pregnancy prevention programme 
regarding pregnancy testing in France using the EGB database." Drug Safety 38(No. 10). 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 24/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yesilova, Y., et al. (2012). "Effects of isotretinoin on obsessive compulsive symptoms, depression, and 
anxiety in patients with acne vulgaris." J Dermatolog Treat 23(4): 268-271. 
Yesilova, Y., et al. (2012). "Effects of isotretinoin on social anxiety and quality of life in patients with 
acne vulgaris: a prospective trial." Acta Dermatovenerol Croat 20(2): 80-83. 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 25/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divergent position(s) 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-31/1446 
EMEA/H/A-31/1446/C/000279/0037 
EMEA/H/A-31/1446/C/000326/0043 
Retinoids containing medicinal products (INN: Acitretin, Adapalene, Alitretinoin, Bexarotene, 
Isotretinoin, Tretinoin, Tazarotene) 
Divergent statements 
Based on the presented pharmacovigilance evidence in their totality, we are of the following opinion: 
The undersigned PRAC members agree with most of the conclusions of PRAC reached within this 
referral procedure, notably with the proposed wording for SmPC and PL for topical retinoids and also 
with the proposed wording regarding neuropsychiatric disorders for oral retinoids.  
The undersigned PRAC members however partially disagree with the recommendation of PRAC 
regarding the Pregnancy Prevention Programme (PPP) for the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and 
isotretinoin:  
The article 31 referral was, among others, triggered to evaluate the effectiveness of the PPP taking into 
consideration that pregnancies did still occur under oral retinoids despite the implementation of the 
PPP for isotretinoin in 2003 and later on for alitretinoin and acitretin. As a result of the referral a 
harmonised wording for the product information for all three substances as well as key elements of a 
tightened Educational Material were proposed, which is in principal endorsed.  
However, regular pregnancy tests in women of childbearing potential and a limitation of prescription to 
a 30 days’ supply as well as a 7 days validity of prescription for that patient group were elements of 
the PPP since 2003. The PRAC now considers that the 7 days validity of prescription cannot be 
scientifically justified. In addition, monthly pregnancy tests and a limitation of prescription to a 30 
days’ supply are not considered to be mandatory by PRAC, but are recommended to be followed 
“ideally” only.  
The undersigned PRAC members consider that these elements have been crucial ones of the PPP since 
2003. There is no reason to weaken or delete successfully implemented risk minimisation measures 
now, taking into consideration that pregnancies do still occur under the more stringent regulations so 
far.  
The undersigned PRAC members are also aware of the significant inconsistency with effectively 
implemented PPPs for other substances with known teratogenicity in humans, i.e. the centrally 
authorised products containing thalidomide, lenalidomide and pomalidomide. It is the view of the 
undersigned that such a difference is not scientifically justified and might question the validity of the 
restrictions in place for these products, may give rise to public concerns in the light of less efforts in 
pregnancy prevention for retinoids as planned while lacking sufficient justification, or might even 
mislead to the assumption that retinoids may be considered much safer regarding there teratogenic 
potential than in the past. 
The main objective of the PPP is to protect the unborn child from potential harm caused by highly 
teratogenic substances. Considering the fact that isotretinoin, alitretinoin and acitretin are indicated to 
treat non-life-threatening dermatological diseases (such as acne and hand eczema) and that therapy 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 26/29 
 
 
 
 
 
can be stopped at any time without serious/potentially life-threatening consequences for the patient, 
the teratogenic risk of these substances might be crucial for the benefit-risk balance if not adequately 
handled. In this context a pregnancy must certainly be excluded at regular (monthly!) intervals before 
prescribing (again) an oral retinoid to treat a non-life-threatening dermatological disease. The 
undersigned PRAC members therefore consider that monthly pregnancy tests and limited prescription 
for a 30 days’ supply in women of childbearing potential as well as a 7 days validity of prescription are 
stringent but crucial requirements for the use of oral retinoids in women of childbearing potential to 
ensure close monitoring aiming at maximal protection of the unborn. 
In conclusion, it is considered that the changes of the product information and the PPP recommended 
by PRAC for medicinal products containing acitretin, alitretinoin or isotretinoin for oral use is currently 
not sufficiently risk proportionate and may negatively impact the safe use of these highly teratogenic 
substances in women of childbearing potential 
PRAC Members expressing this divergent opinion: 
•  Martin Huber (DE) 
•  Brigitte Keller-Stanislawski (Independent scientific expert nominated by the European 
Commission) 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 27/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned PRAC member agrees with most of the conclusions of PRAC reached within this 
referral procedure, notably with the proposed wording for SmPC and PIL for topical retinoids and also 
with the proposed wording regarding neuropsychiatric disorders for oral retinoids.  
The undersigned PRAC member however partially disagrees with the recommendation of PRAC 
regarding the Pregnancy Prevention Programme (PPP) for the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and 
isotretinoin:  
The article 31 referral was, among others, triggered to evaluate the effectiveness of the PPP taking into 
consideration that pregnancies did still occur under oral retinoids despite the implementation of the 
PPP for isotretinoin in 2003 and later on for alitretinoin and acitretin. As a result of the referral a 
harmonised wording for the product information for all three substances as well as key elements of a 
tightened Educational Material were proposed, which is in principal endorsed.  
However, regular pregnancy tests in women of childbearing potential and a limitation of prescription to 
a 30 days’ supply as well as a 7 days validity of prescription for that patient group were elements of 
the PPP since 2003. The PRAC now considers that the 7 days validity of prescription cannot be 
scientifically justified. In addition, monthly pregnancy tests and a limitation of prescription to a 30 
days’ supply are not considered to be mandatory by PRAC, but are recommended to be followed 
“ideally” only.  
The undersigned PRAC member considers that these elements have been crucial ones of the PPP since 
2003. There is no reason to weaken or delete successfully implemented risk minimisation measures 
now, taking into consideration that pregnancies do still occur under the more stringent regulations so 
far. The undersigned PRAC member is also aware of the significant inconsistency with effectively 
implemented PPPs for other substances with known teratogenicity in humans, i.e. the centrally 
authorised products containing thalidomide, lenalidomide and pomalidomide. It is the view of the 
undersigned that such a difference is not scientifically justified and might question the validity of the 
restrictions in place for these products, may give rise to public concerns in the light of less efforts in 
pregnancy prevention for retinoids as planned while lacking sufficient justification, or might even 
mislead to the assumption that retinoids may be considered much safer regarding there teratogenic 
potential than in the past. 
The main objective of the PPP is to protect the unborn child from potential harm caused by highly 
teratogenic substances. Considering the fact that isotretinoin, alitretinoin and acitretin are indicated to 
treat non-life-threatening dermatological diseases (such as acne and hand eczema) and that therapy 
can be stopped at any time without serious/potentially life-threatening consequences for the patient, 
the teratogenic risk of these substances might be crucial for the benefit-risk balance if not adequately 
handled. In this context a pregnancy must certainly be excluded at regular (monthly!) intervals before 
prescribing (again) an oral retinoid to treat a non-life-threatening dermatological disease. The 
undersigned PRAC member therefore considers that monthly pregnancy tests and limited prescription 
for a 30 days’ supply in women of childbearing potential as well as a 7 days validity of prescription are 
stringent but crucial requirements for the use of oral retinoids in women of childbearing potential to 
ensure close monitoring aiming at maximal protection of the unborn. 
In conclusion the Mandatory specific prescription form, the 7 day prescription validity, and prescription 
restrictions for 4 weeks treatment (to facilitate that regular pregnancy testing and monitoring is 
performed to ensure that the patient is not pregnant before receiving the next cycle of medication) is 
successfully implemented in the national regulation of Latvia for products with PPP that contain active 
substances with high risk of teratogenicity (oral retinoids, thalidomide, lenalidomide, pomalidomide). 
That is in accordance with conditions set by EC to ensure consistent and clear approach regarding the 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 28/29 
 
 
 
 
tools alerting HCP on serious risk and ensuring that defined responsibilities in the controlled 
distribution programme are fulfilled. 
The undersigned PRAC member considers that the provided scientific and regulatory grounds for the 
deleting of 7 day prescription validity for oral retinoids from the product information and introducing 
the term “ideally” in the statement that “prescription should ideally be limited to 30 days” within this 
referral procedure are not sufficiently robust. Thus the mentioned changes are not supported taking 
into account that they may lead to the weakening of PPP.   
PRAC Member expressing this divergent opinion: 
•  Zane Neikena  (LV) 
Assessment report  
EMA/254364/2018  
Page 29/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
