Divergent position(s) 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-31/1446 
EMEA/H/A-31/1446/C/000279/0037 
EMEA/H/A-31/1446/C/000326/0043 
Retinoids containing medicinal products (INN: Acitretin, Adapalene, Alitretinoin, Bexarotene, 
Isotretinoin, Tretinoin, Tazarotene) 
Divergent statements 
Based on the presented pharmacovigilance evidence in their totality, we are of the following opinion: 
The undersigned CHMP members agree with most of the conclusions of CHMP reached within this 
referral procedure, notably with the proposed wording for SmPC and PL for topical retinoids and also 
with the proposed wording regarding neuropsychiatric disorders for oral retinoids.  
The undersigned CHMP members however partially disagree with the recommendation of CHMP 
regarding the Pregnancy Prevention Programme (PPP) for the oral retinoids acitretin, alitretinoin and 
isotretinoin:  
The article 31 referral was, among others, triggered to evaluate the effectiveness of the PPP taking into 
consideration that pregnancies did still occur under oral retinoids despite the implementation of the 
PPP for isotretinoin in 2003 and later on for alitretinoin and acitretin. As a result of the referral a 
harmonised wording for the product information for all three substances as well as key elements of a 
tightened Educational Material were proposed, which is in principal endorsed.  
However, regular pregnancy tests in women of childbearing potential and a limitation of prescription to 
a 30 day supply as well as a 7 days validity of prescription for that patient group were elements of the 
PPP since 2003. The CHMP now considers that the 7 day validity of prescription cannot be scientifically 
justified. In addition, monthly pregnancy tests and a limitation of prescription to a 30 day supply are 
not considered to be mandatory by CHMP, but are recommended to be followed “ideally” only.  
The undersigned CHMP members consider that these elements have been crucial ones of the PPP since 
2003. There is no reason to weaken or delete successfully implemented risk minimisation measures 
now, taking into consideration that pregnancies do still occur under the more stringent regulations so 
far.  
The undersigned CHMP members are also aware of the significant inconsistency with effectively 
implemented PPPs for other substances with known teratogenicity in humans, i.e. the centrally 
authorised products containing thalidomide, lenalidomide and pomalidomide. It is the view of the 
undersigned that such a difference is not scientifically justified and might question the validity of the 
restrictions in place for these products, may give rise to public concerns in the light of less efforts in 
pregnancy prevention for retinoids as planned while lacking sufficient justification, or might even 
mislead to the assumption that retinoids may be considered much safer regarding their teratogenic 
potential than in the past. 
The main objective of the PPP is to protect the unborn child from potential harm caused by highly 
teratogenic substances. Considering the fact that isotretinoin, alitretinoin and acitretin are indicated to 
treat non-life-threatening dermatological diseases (such as acne and hand eczema) and that therapy 
 
 
can be stopped at any time without serious/potentially life-threatening consequences for the patient, 
the teratogenic risk of these substances might be crucial for the benefit-risk balance if not adequately 
handled. In this context a pregnancy must certainly be excluded at regular (monthly!) intervals before 
prescribing (again) an oral retinoid to treat a non-life-threatening dermatological disease. The 
undersigned CHMP members therefore consider that monthly pregnancy tests and limited prescription 
for a 30 day supply in women of childbearing potential as well as a 7 day validity of prescription are 
stringent but crucial requirements for the use of oral retinoids in women of childbearing potential to 
ensure close monitoring aiming at maximal protection of the unborn. 
In conclusion, it is considered that the changes of the product information and the PPP recommended 
by CHMP for medicinal products containing acitretin, alitretinoin or isotretinoin for oral use is currently 
not sufficiently risk proportionate and may negatively impact the safe use of these highly teratogenic 
substances in women of childbearing potential 
CHMP Member expressing this divergent opinion: 
•  Harald.Enzmann (DE) 
• 
Jan Mueller-Berghaus (Co-opted CHMP member) 
 
 
 
