Summary of risk management plan for Tavneos (avacopan) 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Tavneos. The RMP details 
important risks of Tavneos, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Tavneos’ risks and uncertainties (missing information).  
Tavneos’s  Summary  of  Product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  Package  Leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Tavneos should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Tavneos should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report.  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Tavneos’s RMP. 
I 
The Medicine and What it is Used for 
Tavneos, in combination with a rituximab or cyclophosphamide regimen, is indicated for 
the treatment of adult patients with severe, active granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) 
or microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains avacopan 
as the active substance and it is given as 10 mg hard capsules for oral administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Tavneos’s benefits can be found in Tavneos’s 
European Public Assessment Report, including in its plain-language summary, available 
webpage 
website, 
on 
(https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/tavneos).  
medicine’s 
under 
EMA 
the 
the 
II 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Tavneos, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more information about Tavneos’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
Package Leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and  regularly  analysed,  including  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report  assessment,  so  that 
immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that can affect the safe use of Tavneos is not yet available, it is 
listed under missing information below. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Tavneos are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Tavneos. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risk 
Missing information 
Liver injury 
Cardiovascular safety 
Serious infection  
Malignancy 
None 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified Risk: Liver injury 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
In a small number of cases, hepatic transaminases and bilirubin elevations have 
been observed in Phase 2 and in Phase 3 studies. These occurred in a background 
of co-administered drugs, such as trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole which are 
known liver toxins, so clear and direct causality with avacopan could not be 
established. These elevations reversed with withdrawal of study drug (and 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole). Monitoring for liver enzymes is readily 
achieved in clinical practice because the ANCA-associated vasculitis specialists 
are already implementing such monitoring for the other drugs that are 
co-administered (cyclophosphamide and rituximab).  
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment, patients concomitantly treated with 
CYP3A4 inhibitors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Identified Risk: Liver injury 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
•  SmPC Section 4.2, Section 4.4, and Section 4.8; PIL Section 2 and 4 
•  Recommendation for liver function test monitoring, awareness for patients 
with liver disorders is included in SmPC Section 4.4 and PIL Section 2 
•  Legal status: Prescription only medication 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Important Potential Risk: Cardiovascular safety 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Cardiovascular safety is high in patients with AAV. Due to the small number of 
patients who demonstrated cardiac abnormalities in patients treated with 
avacopan, careful monitoring is required 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
AAV patients have a higher risk for cardiovascular disorders 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
•  SmPC Section 4.4; PIL Section 2 
• 
Information regarding cardiac disorder awareness for patients is included in 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PIL Section 2 
•  Legal status: Prescription only medication 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Important Potential Risk: Serious infection  
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
The risk of infections in AAV is considered high; however, this has yet to be 
robustly quantified. Studies of infection in AAV report variable risks ranging 
from 6 to 67% [68]. Based on the available data from Phase 3, the incidence of 
serious infections was 15.2% in the prednisone group versus 13.3% in the 
avacopan group. Considering the seriousness of AAV and the severity of 
infections, close monitoring is required to further evaluate the safety profile for 
serious infection in patients with AAV treated with avacopan 
Active disease remains one of the main causes of death in patients with AAV, 
especially in the first months of follow-up. It is important to identify predisposing 
factors such as intensive immunosuppressant treatment, severe renal dysfunction 
and leukopenia, and stratify treatment according to the disease severity 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
•  SmPC Section 4.2, 4.4 and Section 4.8; PIL Section 2 and 4 
• 
Information regarding seriousness infection is included in SmPC Section 4.4 
and PIL Section 2 
•  Legal status: Prescription only medication 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Important Potential Risk: Malignancy 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
The risk of malignancy is a concern based on the response of the complement 
system as well as avacopan mechanism of action. Additionally, due to 
eculizumab similar target as avacopan, malignancies are included within the risk 
profile for eculizimab as an adverse reaction. Furthermore, avacopan preclinical 
data is limited, and the phase II and phase III clinical studies mainly excluded 
subjects with a history or presence of any form of cancer within the 5 years prior 
to screening. The studies conducted to date were limited with regards to 
follow-up time and total exposure to provide any substantial assessment to the 
risk. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Active disease in patients with AAV treated in combination with CYC. It is 
important to identify predisposing factors such as intensive immunosuppressant 
treatment, and stratify treatment according to the disease severity.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Potential Risk: Malignancy 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
•  SmPC Section 4.4; PIL Section 2 
• 
Information regarding malignancy is included in SmPC Section 4.4 and PIL 
Section 2 
•  Legal status: Prescription only medication 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Notes:  AAV=ANCA-associated vasculitis; ANCA=Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody; PIL=Patient Information Leaflet; 
SmPC=Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Missing Information: None 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: NA 
Additional risk minimisation measures: NA 
Notes:  NA=Not applicable. 
II.C 
Post-authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  Specific 
Obligations of Tavneos. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan 
Study 
Category 
Study 
Short 
Name 
3 
PASS 
study 
Study Full Name 
Purpose 
Avacopan Real World 
Evidence in ANCA-
Associated Vasculitis 
Evaluate the long-term (beyond 1 year up to 
36 months) safety of avacopan in ANCA Vasculitis 
patients; 
Estimate the incidence rates of medical events of 
special interest (e.g., liver injury, serious infections, 
malignancies and cardiovascular events. 
Notes:  ANCA=Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody; PASS=Post=Authorisation Safety Study. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
