14 September 2017 
EMA/841558/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): docetaxel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001152/201611 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01 December 2013 to 30 November 2016 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for docetaxel, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Injection site recall reaction (recurrence of skin reaction at a site of previous extravasation following 
administration of docetaxel at a different site) has been observed at the site of previous extravasation. 
Based on the data reviewed in this PSUR, the PRAC considers that a causal relationship between the 
injection site recall reaction and docetaxel is supported. Therefore, the PRAC concluded that the product 
information should be updated to include the adverse reaction “Injection site recall reaction” with a 
frequency unknown.  
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with docetaxel in patients who previously experienced 
hypersensitivity reactions to paclitaxel. Patients who have previously experienced a hypersensitivity 
reaction to paclitaxel may be at risk to develop hypersensitivity reaction to docetaxel, including more 
severe hypersensitivity reaction. Based on the data reviewed in this PSUR, supported by the literature 
review, the PRAC considers that the product information should be updated in order to inform health 
care professional that these patients should be closely monitored during docetaxel therapy initiation and 
to include the adverse reaction hypersensitivity reaction with a frequency unknown. 
Differences in the information related to the risk of potential effects of alcohol and interactions with 
other medicinal products have been observed in the docetaxel products information. The PRAC considers 
that the product information should be updated in order to reflect a common wording on this risk based 
on the latest QRD template, excipients guideline and information review during this PSUR.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for docetaxel the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing docetaxel is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/841558/2017 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
