EMA/350414/2010  
EMEA/H/C/000073 
Taxotere (docetaxel) 
An overview of Taxotere and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Taxotere and what is it used for? 
Taxotere is a cancer medicine used to treat the following types of cancer: 
• 
breast cancer. Taxotere can be used on its own after other treatments have failed. It can also be 
used with other cancer medicines (doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, trastuzumab or capecitabine) in 
patients who have not yet received any treatment for their cancer or after other treatments have 
failed, depending on the type and stage of the breast cancer being treated; 
•  non-small cell lung cancer. Taxotere can be used on its own after other treatments have failed. It 
can also be used with cisplatin (another cancer medicine) in patients who have not received any 
treatment for their cancer; 
• 
• 
prostate cancer, when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Taxotere is 
used with prednisone or prednisolone (anti-inflammatory medicines) when the cancer cannot be 
treated by greatly reducing the body's production of testosterone (castration-resistant prostate 
cancer). It can also be used with androgen-deprivation therapy when hormonal treatment still 
works (hormone-sensitive prostate cancer); 
gastric adenocarcinoma (a stomach cancer) that has spread in patients who have not received any 
treatment for their cancer. Taxotere is used with cisplatin and fluorouracil (other cancer 
medicines); 
•  head and neck cancer in patients whose cancer is locally advanced (a cancer that has grown but 
has not spread). Taxotere is used with cisplatin and fluorouracil. 
Taxotere contains the active substance docetaxel.  
How is Taxotere used? 
Taxotere can only be obtained with a prescription and should only be used in units specialising in 
giving chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer) under the supervision of a doctor who is qualified in 
the use of chemotherapy. 
Taxotere is given as a 1-hour infusion (drip) into a vein every 3 weeks. The dose, duration of 
treatment and the medicines it is used with depend on the type of cancer being treated and the 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
  
 
 
 
patient’s weight and height. An anti-inflammatory medicine such as dexamethasone should also be 
given to the patient, starting on the day before the Taxotere infusion.  
The dose of Taxotere may need to be reduced, or treatment interrupted or discontinued, if the patient 
develops certain side effects.  
For more information about using Taxotere, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Taxotere work? 
The active substance in Taxotere, docetaxel, belongs to the group of cancer medicines known as 
taxanes. Docetaxel blocks the ability of cells to break down the internal ‘skeleton’ that allows them to 
divide. With the skeleton still in place, the cells cannot divide and they eventually die. Because 
docetaxel works on dividing cells, it also affects affects non-cancer cells such as blood cells, which can 
cause side effects. 
What benefits of Taxotere have been shown in studies? 
Taxotere has been studied in over 4,000 breast-cancer patients, around 2,000 non-small-cell-lung-
cancer patients, around 2,700  prostate cancer patients, 457 gastric adenocarcinoma patients and 897 
head- and neck-cancer patients. In most of these studies, Taxotere was combined with other cancer 
treatments and compared either with the medicines it is used in combination with or with a 
combination of different treatments. The main measures of effectiveness were the number of patients 
whose cancer responded to treatment, how long the patients lived without their disease getting worse 
and how long the patients survived. 
Adding Taxotere to other anticancer treatments was effective in all five types of cancer. When used on 
its own, Taxotere was at least as effective as and sometimes more effective than the comparator 
medicines in breast cancer, and more effective than best supportive care (any medicines or treatment 
to help patients, but not other cancer medicines) in lung cancer. 
What are the risks associated with Taxotere? 
The most common side effects with Taxotere (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are neutropenia (low 
levels of neutrophils, white blood cells that fight infection), anaemia (low red blood cell counts), 
stomatitis (inflammation of the lining of the mouth), diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, 
alopecia (hair loss) and asthenia (weakness). These side effects may be more severe when Taxotere is 
used with other cancer medicines. For the full list of side effects of Taxotere, see the package leaflet. 
Taxotere must not be used in patients who have a neutrophil count of less than 1,500 cells/mm3 or 
who have severe problems with their liver. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Taxotere authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Taxotere’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
Taxotere (docetaxel)  
EMA/542475/2019  
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Taxotere? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Taxotere have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Taxotere are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Taxotere are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Taxotere 
Taxotere received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 27 November 1995.  
Further information on Taxotere can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/taxotere.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2019.  
Taxotere (docetaxel)  
EMA/542475/2019  
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
