ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tecartus 0.4 – 2 × 108 cells dispersion for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
2.1  General description 
Tecartus (brexucabtagene autoleucel) is a genetically modified autologous cell-based product 
containing T cells transduced ex vivo using a retroviral vector expressing an anti-CD19 chimeric 
antigen receptor (CAR) comprising a murine anti-CD19 single chain variable fragment (scFv) linked 
to CD28 co-stimulatory domain and CD3-zeta signalling domain.  
2.2  Qualitative and quantitative composition 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
Each patient-specific infusion bag of Tecartus contains brexucabtagene autoleucel at a batch-
dependent concentration of autologous T cells genetically modified to express an anti-CD19 chimeric 
antigen receptor (CAR-positive viable T cells). The medicinal product is packaged in one infusion bag 
overall containing a cell dispersion for infusion of a target dose of 2 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR-positive 
viable T cells/kg body weight (range: 1 × 106 – 2 × 106 cells/kg), with a maximum of 2 × 108 
anti-CD19 CAR-positive viable T cells suspended in a Cryostor CS10 solution. 
Each infusion bag contains approximately 68 mL of dispersion for infusion. 
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
Each patient-specific infusion bag of Tecartus contains brexucabtagene autoleucel at a batch-
dependent concentration of autologous T cells genetically modified to express an anti CD19 chimeric 
antigen receptor (CAR-positive viable T cells). The medicinal product is packaged in one infusion bag 
overall containing a cell dispersion for infusion of a target dose of 1 × 106 anti CD19 CAR positive 
viable T cells/kg body weight, with a maximum of 1 × 108 anti CD19 CAR positive viable T cells 
suspended in a Cryostor CS10 solution. 
Each infusion bag contains approximately 68 mL of dispersion for infusion. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 300 mg sodium. 
Each dose contains 0.05 mL of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) per mL of Tecartus. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Dispersion for infusion. 
A clear to opaque, white to red dispersion. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
Tecartus is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell 
lymphoma (MCL) after two or more lines of systemic therapy including a Bruton’s tyrosine kinase 
(BTK) inhibitor.  
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
Tecartus is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 26 years of age and above with relapsed or 
refractory B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Tecartus must be administered in a qualified treatment centre by a physician with experience in the 
treatment of haematological malignancies and trained for administration and management of patients 
treated with Tecartus. At least 1 dose of tocilizumab for use in the event of cytokine release syndrome 
(CRS) and emergency equipment must be available prior to infusion. The qualified treatment centre 
must have access to an additional dose of tocilizumab within 8 hours of each previous dose. In the 
exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage that is listed in the European 
Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, suitable alternative measures to treat CRS instead of 
tocilizumab must be available prior to infusion. 
Posology 
Tecartus is intended for autologous use only (see section 4.4). 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
Treatment consists of a single dose for infusion containing a dispersion for infusion of CAR-positive 
viable T cells in one container. The target dose is 2 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells per kg of body 
weight (range: 1 × 106–2 × 106 cells/kg), with a maximum of 2 × 108 CAR-positive viable T cells for 
patients 100 kg and above. 
Tecartus is recommended to be infused 3 to 14 days after completion of the lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy for MCL patients. The availability of the treatment must be confirmed prior to starting 
the lymphodepleting regimen. 
Pre-treatment (lymphodepleting chemotherapy) for MCL patients 
• 
A lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m² and 
fludarabine 30 mg/m² must be administered prior to infusing Tecartus. The recommended days 
are on the 5th, 4th, and 3rd day before infusion of Tecartus. 
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
Treatment consists of a single dose for infusion containing a dispersion for infusion of CAR-positive 
viable T cells in one container. The target dose is 1 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells per kg of body 
weight, with a maximum of 1 × 108 CAR-positive viable T cells for patients 100 kg and above. 
Tecartus is recommended to be infused 2 to 14 days after completion of the lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy for ALL patients. The availability of the treatment must be confirmed prior to starting 
the lymphodepleting regimen. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-treatment (lymphodepleting chemotherapy) for ALL patients 
A lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide 900 mg/m2 over 60 
minutes must be administered prior to infusing Tecartus. This is recommended on the 2nd day before 
infusion of Tecartus. Fludarabine 25 mg/m2 over 30 minutess must be administered prior to infusing 
Tecartus. The recommended days are on the 4th, 3rd, and 2nd day before infusion of Tecartus. 
Mantle cell lymphoma and acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
Pre-medication 
• 
To minimise potential acute infusion reactions, it is recommended that patients be 
pre-medicated with paracetamol 500 to 1,000 mg given orally and diphenhydramine 12.5 to 
25 mg intravenous or oral (or equivalent) approximately 1 hour prior to infusion. 
Prophylactic use of systemic corticosteroids is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Monitoring prior to infusion 
• 
In some patient groups at risk, a delay of the Tecartus infusion may be indicated (see 
section 4.4- Reasons to delay treatment). 
Monitoring after infusion 
• 
Patients must be monitored daily for the first 10 days following infusion for signs and symptoms 
of potential CRS, neurologic events and other toxicities. Physicians should consider 
hospitalisation for the first 10 days post infusion or at the first signs/symptoms of CRS and/or 
neurologic events. 
After the first 10 days following the infusion, the patient is to be monitored at the physician’s 
discretion. 
Patients must be instructed to remain within proximity (within 2 hours of travel) of a qualified 
treatment centre for at least 4 weeks following infusion. 
• 
• 
• 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in patients ≥65 years of age. 
Patients seropositive for hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), or human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
There is no experience with manufacturing Tecartus for patients with a positive test for HIV, active 
HBV, or active HCV infection. Therefore, the benefit/risk has not yet been established in this 
population. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Tecartus in children and adolescents aged less than 18 years have not yet 
been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Tecartus is for intravenous use only. 
Tecartus must not be irradiated. Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter. 
Before administration, it must be confirmed that the patient’s identity matches the unique patient 
information on the Tecartus infusion bag and cassette. 
Administration 
• 
• 
A leukodepleting filter must not be used. 
Tocilizumab and emergency equipment must be available prior to infusion and during the 
monitoring period. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, suitable alternative 
measures to treat CRS instead of tocilizumab must be available prior to infusion. 
For autologous use only, verify the patient ID to match the patient identifiers on the Tecartus 
bag. 
Once tubing has been primed, infuse the entire content of the Tecartus bag within 30 minutes by 
either gravity or a peristaltic pump.  
• 
• 
For detailed instructions on preparation, administration, accidental exposure and disposal of Tecartus, 
see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Contraindications of the lymphodepleting chemotherapy must be considered. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
The traceability requirements of cell-based advanced therapy medicinal products must apply. To 
ensure traceability the name of the product, the batch number and the name of the treated patient must 
be kept for a period of 30 years.  
Autologous use 
Tecartus is intended solely for autologous use and must not, under any circumstances, be administered 
to other patients. Before infusion, the patient’s identity must match the patient identifiers on the 
Tecartus infusion bag and cassette. Do not infuse Tecartus if the information on the patientspecific 
cassette label does not match the intended patient’s identity. 
General 
Warnings and precautions of lymphodepleting chemotherapy must be considered. 
Monitoring after infusion 
Patients must be monitored daily for the first 10 days following infusion for signs and symptoms of 
potential CRS, neurologic events and other toxicities. Physicians should consider hospitalisation for 
the first 10 days post infusion or at the first signs/symptoms of CRS and/or neurologic events. After 
the first 10 days following infusion, the patient is to be monitored at the physician’s discretion. 
Counsel patients to remain within the proximity of a qualified treatment centre for at least 4 weeks 
following infusion and to seek immediate medical attention should signs or symptoms of CRS or 
neurological adverse reactions occur. Monitoring of vital signs and organ functions must be 
considered depending on the severity of the reaction. 
Reasons to delay treatment 
Due to the risks associated with Tecartus treatment, infusion must be delayed if a patient has any of 
the following conditions: 
• 
Unresolved serious adverse reactions (especially pulmonary reactions, cardiac reactions, or 
hypotension) including from preceding chemotherapies. 
Active uncontrolled infection or inflammatory disease. 
Active graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). 
• 
• 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In some cases, the treatment may be delayed after administration of the lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy regimen. If the infusion is delayed for more than 2 weeks after the patient has received 
the lymphodepleting chemotherapy, lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimen must be administered 
again (see section 4.2)  
Serological testing 
Screening for HBV, HCV, and HIV must be performed before collection of cells for manufacturing of 
Tecartus (see section 4.2). 
Blood, organ, tissue and cell donation 
Patients treated with Tecartus must not donate blood, organs, tissues, or cells for transplantation. 
Active central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma 
There is no experience of use of this medicinal product in patients with active CNS lymphoma defined 
as brain metastases confirmed by imaging. In ALL, asymptomatic patients with a maximum of CNS-2 
disease (defined as white blood cells <5/µL in cerebral spinal fluid with presence of lymphoblasts) 
without clinically evident neurological changes were treated with Tecartus, however, data is limited in 
this population. Therefore, the benefit/risk of Tecartus has not been established in these populations.   
Concomitant disease 
Patients with a history of or active CNS disorder or inadequate renal, hepatic, pulmonary, or cardiac 
function were excluded from the studies. These patients are likely to be more vulnerable to the 
consequences of the adverse reactions described below and require special attention. 
Cytokine release syndrome 
Nearly all patients experienced some degree of CRS. Severe CRS, which can be fatal, was  observed 
with Tecartus with a median time to onset of 3 days (range: 1 to 13 days). Patients must be closely 
monitored for signs or symptoms of these events, such as high fever, hypotension, hypoxia, chills, 
tachycardia and headache (see section 4.8). CRS is to be managed at the physician’s discretion, based 
on the patient’s clinical presentation and according to the CRS management algorithm provided in 
Table 1. 
Diagnosis of CRS requires excluding alternate causes of systemic inflammatory response, including 
infection.  
Management of cytokine release syndrome associated with Tecartus 
At least 1 dose per patient of tocilizumab, an interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor inhibitor, must be on site 
and available for administration prior to Tecartus infusion. The qualified treatment centre must have 
access to an additional dose of tocilizumab within 8 hours of each previous dose. In the exceptional 
case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage that is listed in the European Medicines 
Agency shortage catalogue, the treatment centre must have access to suitable alternative measures 
instead of tocilizumab to treat CRS. 
Treatment algorithms have been developed to ameliorate some of the CRS symptoms experienced by 
patients on Tecartus. These include the use of tocilizumab or tocilizumab and corticosteroids, as 
summarised in Table 1. Patients who experience Grade 2 or higher CRS (e.g. hypotension, not 
responsive to fluids, or hypoxia requiring supplemental oxygenation) must be monitored with 
continuous cardiac telemetry and pulse oximetry. For patients experiencing severe CRS, consider 
performing an echocardiogram to assess cardiac function. For severe or life-threatening CRS, consider 
intensive-care supportive therapy. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CRS has been known to be associated with end organ dysfunction (e.g., hepatic, renal, cardiac, and 
pulmonary). In addition, worsening of underlying organ pathologies can occur in the setting of CRS. 
Patients with medically significant cardiac dysfunction must be managed by standards of critical care 
and measures such as echocardiography is to be considered. In some cases, macrophage activation 
syndrome (MAS) and haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) may occur in the setting of CRS. 
Evaluation for haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis/macrophage activation syndrome (HLH/MAS) is 
to be considered in patients with severe or unresponsive CRS. 
Tecartus continues to expand and persist following administration of tocilizumab and corticosteroids. 
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists are not recommended for management of 
Tecartus-associated CRS. 
Table 1 
CRS grading and management guidance 
Corticosteroids 
N/A 
If no improvement within 24 hours 
after starting tocilizumab, manage 
as per Grade 3. 
If improving, taper corticosteroids, 
and manage as Grade 1. 
Administer methylprednisolone 
1 mg/kg intravenously twice daily 
or equivalent dexamethasone (e.g., 
10 mg intravenously every 6 hours) 
until Grade 1, then taper 
corticosteroids. 
If improving, manage as Grade 2. 
If not improving, manage as 
Grade 4. 
Administer methylprednisolone 
1000 mg intravenously per day for 
3 days. 
If improving, taper corticosteroids, 
and manage as Grade 3. 
If not improving, consider alternate 
immunosuppressants. 
Tocilizumab 
If not improving after 24 hours, 
administer tocilizumab 
8 mg/kg intravenously over 1 hour 
(not to exceed 800 mg). 
Administer tocilizumab (c) 8 mg/kg 
intravenously over 1 hour (not to 
exceed 800 mg). 
Repeat tocilizumab every 8 hours 
as needed if not responsive to 
intravenous fluids or increasing 
supplemental oxygen. Limit to a 
maximum of 3 doses in a 24 hour 
period; maximum total of 4 doses if 
no clinical improvement in the 
signs and symptoms of CRS, or if 
no response to second or 
subsequent doses of tocilizumab, 
consider alternative measures for 
treatment of CRS. 
If improving, discontinue 
tocilizumab. 
Per Grade 2 
Per Grade 2 
CRS Grade (a) 
Grade 1 
Symptoms require symptomatic 
treatment only (e.g., fever, nausea, 
fatigue, headache, myalgia, 
malaise). 
Grade 2 
Symptoms require and respond to 
moderate intervention. 
Oxygen requirement less than 40% 
FiO2 or hypotension responsive to 
fluids or low-dose of one 
vasopressor or Grade 2 organ 
toxicity (b). 
Grade 3 
Symptoms require and respond to 
aggressive intervention. 
Oxygen requirement greater than or 
equal to 40% FiO2 or hypotension 
requiring high-dose or multiple 
vasopressors or Grade 3 organ 
toxicity or Grade 4 transaminitis. 
Grade 4 
Life-threatening symptoms. 
Requirements for ventilator support 
or continuous veno-venous 
haemodialysis or Grade 4 organ 
toxicity (excluding transaminitis). 
N/A = not available/not applicable 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
Lee et al 2014. 
Refer to Table 2 for management of neurologic adverse reactions. 
Refer to tocilizumab summary of product characteristics for details. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neurologic adverse reactions 
Severe neurologic adverse reactions, also known as immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity 
syndrome (ICANS), have been observed in patients treated with Tecartus, which could be life-
threatening or fatal. The median time to onset was 7 days (range: 1 to 262 days) following Tecartus 
infusion (see section 4.8).  
Patients who experience Grade 2 or higher neurologic toxicity/ICANS must be monitored with 
continuous cardiac telemetry and pulse oximetry. Provide intensive-care supportive therapy for severe 
or life-threatening neurologic toxicity/ICANS. Non-sedating, anti-seizure medicines are be considered 
as clinically indicated for Grade 2 or higher adverse reactions. Treatment algorithms have been 
developed to ameliorate the neurologic adverse reactions experienced by patients on Tecartus. These 
include the use of tocilizumab (if concurrent CRS) and/or corticosteroids for moderate, severe, or 
life-threatening neurologic adverse reactions as summarised in Table 2. 
Table 2 
Neurologic adverse reaction/ICANS grading and management guidance 
Grading 
assessment 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Concurrent CRS 
No concurrent CRS 
Administer dexamethasone 10 mg 
intravenously every 6 hours until the event is 
Grade 1 or less. 
If improving, taper corticosteroids 
Administer dexamethasone 10 mg 
intravenously every 6 hours. 
Continue dexamethasone use until the event is 
Grade 1 or less, then taper corticosteroids. 
If not improving, manage as Grade 4. 
Administer tocilizumab as per Table 1 for 
management Grade 2 CRS. 
If not improving within 24 hours after starting 
tocilizumab, administer dexamethasone 
10 mg intravenously every 6 hours until the 
event is Grade 1 or less, then taper 
corticosteroids. 
If improving, discontinue tocilizumab. 
If still not improving, manage as Grade 3. 
Consider non-sedating, anti-seizure medicines (e.g., levetiracetam) for seizure prophylaxis. 
Administer tocilizumab as per Table 1 for 
management of Grade 2 CRS. 
In addition, administer dexamethasone 10 mg 
intravenously with the first dose of 
tocilizumab and repeat dose every 6 hours. 
Continue dexamethasone use until the event is 
Grade 1 or less, then taper corticosteroids. 
If improving, discontinue tocilizumab and 
manage as Grade 2. 
If still not improving, manage as Grade 4. 
Consider non-sedating, anti-seizure medicines (e.g., levetiracetam) for seizure prophylaxis. 
Administer tocilizumab as per Table 1 for 
management of Grade 2 CRS. 
Administer methylprednisolone 1000 mg 
intravenously per day with first dose of 
tocilizumab and continue methylprednisolone 
1000 mg intravenously per day for 2 more 
days. 
If improving, then manage as Grade 3. 
If not improving, consider alternate 
immunosuppressants. 
Consider non-sedating, anti-seizure medicines (e.g., levetiracetam) for seizure prophylaxis. 
Administer methylprednisolone 1000 mg 
intravenously per day for 3 days. 
If improving, then manage as Grade 3. 
If not improving, consider alternate 
immunosuppressants. 
Infections and febrile neutropenia 
Severe infections, which could be life-threatening, were very commonly observed with Tecartus (see 
section 4.8). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients must be monitored for signs and symptoms of infection before, during and after infusion and 
treated appropriately. Prophylactic antibiotics must be administered according to standard institutional 
guidelines. 
Febrile neutropenia has been observed in patients after Tecartus infusion (see section 4.8) and may be 
concurrent with CRS. In the event of febrile neutropenia, evaluate for infection and manage with broad 
spectrum antibiotics, fluids, and other supportive care as medically indicated. 
In immunosuppressed patients, life-threatening and fatal opportunistic infections including 
disseminated fungal infections and viral reactivation (e.g., HHV-6 and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy) have been reported. The possibility of these infections should be considered in 
patients with neurologic events and appropriate diagnostic evaluations must be performed.  
Viral reactivation 
Viral reactivation, e.g. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation, can occur in patients treated with 
medicinal products directed against B cells and could result in fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, and 
death. 
Prolonged cytopenias 
Patients may exhibit cytopenias for several weeks following lymphodepleting chemotherapy and 
Tecartus infusion and must be managed according to standard guidelines. Grade 3 or higher prolonged 
cytopenias following Tecartus infusion occurred very commonly and included thrombocytopenia, 
neutropenia, and anaemia (see section 4.8). Patient blood counts must be monitored after Tecartus 
infusion. 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia 
B-cell aplasia leading to hypogammaglobulinaemia can occur in patients receiving treatment with 
Tecartus. Hypogammaglobulinaemia was very commonly observed in patients treated with Tecartus 
(see section 4.8). Hypogammaglobulinaemia predisposes patients to have infections. Immunoglobulin 
levels should be monitored after treatment with Tecartus and managed using infection precautions, 
antibiotic prophylaxis, and immunoglobulin replacement in case of recurrent infections and must be 
taken according to standard guidelines. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, may occur due to DMSO or residual 
gentamicin in Tecartus. 
Secondary malignancies 
Patients treated with Tecartus may develop secondary malignancies. Patients must be monitored 
life-long for secondary malignancies. In the event that a secondary malignancy occurs, contact the 
company to obtain instructions on patient samples to collect for testing. 
Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) 
TLS, which may be severe, has occasionally been observed. To minimise risk of TLS, patients with 
elevated uric acid or high tumour burden should receive allopurinol, or an alternative prophylaxis, 
prior to Tecartus infusion. Signs and symptoms of TLS must be monitored, and events managed 
according to standard guidelines. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior stem cell transplantation (GvHD) 
It is not recommended that patients who underwent an allogeneic stem cell transplant and suffer from 
active acute or chronic GvHD receive treatment because of the potential risk of Tecartus worsening 
GvHD.  
Prior treatment with anti-CD19 therapy 
Tecartus is not recommended if the patient has relapsed with CD19-negative disease after prior 
anti-CD19 therapy. 
Sodium content  
This medicinal product contains 300 mg sodium per infusion, equivalent to 15% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
Long-term follow up 
Patients are expected to enrol in a registry and will be followed in the registry in order to better 
understand the long-term safety and efficacy of Tecartus. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
Prophylactic use of systemic corticosteroids may interfere with the activity of Tecartus. Prophylactic 
use of systemic corticosteroids is therefore not recommended before infusion (see section 4.2).  
Administration of corticosteroids as per the toxicity management guidelines does not impact the 
expansion and persistence of CAR T cells. 
Live vaccines 
The safety of immunisation with live viral vaccines during or following Tecartus treatment has not 
been studied. As a precautionary measure, vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended 
for at least 6 weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during Tecartus treatment, and 
until immune recovery following treatment. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
The pregnancy status of women of childbearing potential must be verified before starting Tecartus 
treatment. 
See the prescribing information for lymphodepleting chemotherapy for information on the need for 
effective contraception in patients who receive the lymphodepleting chemotherapy. 
There are insufficient exposure data to provide a recommendation concerning duration of 
contraception following treatment with Tecartus. 
Pregnancy 
There are no available data with Tecartus use in pregnant women. No reproductive and developmental 
toxicity animal studies have been conducted with Tecartus to assess whether it can cause foetal harm 
when administered to a pregnant woman (see section 5.3). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is not known if Tecartus has the potential to be transferred to the foetus. Based on the mechanism of 
action, if the transduced cells cross the placenta, they may cause foetal toxicity, including B-cell 
lymphocytopenia. Therefore, Tecartus is not recommended for women who are pregnant, or for 
women of childbearing potential not using contraception. Pregnant women must be advised on the 
potential risks to the foetus. Pregnancy after Tecartus therapy must be discussed with the treating 
physician. 
Assessment of immunoglobulin levels and B-cells in newborn infants of mothers treated with Tecartus 
must be considered. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether Tecartus is excreted in human milk or transferred to the breast-feeding child. 
Breast-feeding women must be advised of the potential risk to the breast-fed child. 
Fertility 
No clinical data on the effect of Tecartus on fertility are available. Effects on male and female fertility 
have not been evaluated in animal studies. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tecartus has major influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Due to the potential for neurologic events, including altered mental status or seizures, patients must 
not drive or operate heavy or potentially dangerous machines until at least 8 weeks after infusion or 
until resolution of neurologic adverse reactions. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
The safety data described in this section reflect exposure to Tecartus in ZUMA-2, a Phase 2 study in 
which a total of 82 patients with relapsed/refractory MCL received a single dose of CAR-positive 
viable T cells (2 × 106 or 0.5 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR T cells/kg) based on a recommended dose which 
was weight-based. 
The most significant and frequently occurring adverse reactions were CRS (91%), infections (55%) 
and encephalopathy (51%). 
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 56% of patients. The most common serious adverse reactions 
included encephalopathy (26%), infections (28%) and cytokine release syndrome (15%). 
Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions were reported in 67% of patients. The most common Grade 3 or 
higher non-haematological adverse reactions included infections (34%) and encephalopathy (24%). 
The most common Grade 3 or higher haematological adverse reactions included neutropenia (99%), 
leukopenia (98%), lymphopenia (96%), thrombocytopenia (65%) and anaemia (56%). 
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
The safety data described in this section reflect exposure to Tecartus in ZUMA-3, a Phase 1/2 study in 
which a total of 100 patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell precursor ALL received a single dose of 
CAR-positive viable T cells (0.5 × 106, 1 × 106, or 2 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR T cells/kg) based on a 
recommended dose which was weight based.  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most significant and frequently occurring adverse reactions were CRS (91%), encephalopathy 
(57%), and infections (41%). 
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 70% of patients. The most common serious adverse reactions 
included CRS (25%), infections (22%) and encephalopathy (21%). 
Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions were reported in 76% of patients. The most common Grade 3 or 
higher non-haematological adverse reactions included infections (27%), CRS (25%) and 
encephalopathy (22%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions described in this section were identified in a total of 182 patients exposed to 
Tecartus in two multi-centre pivotal clinical studies, ZUMA-2 (n=82) and ZUMA-3 (n=100). These 
reactions are presented by system organ class and by frequency. Frequencies are defined as: very 
common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
presented in the order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 3 
Adverse drug reactions identified with Tecartus 
System Organ Class (SOC) 
Infections and infestations  
Frequency 
Adverse reactions 
Very common 
Unspecified pathogen infections 
Bacterial infections  
Fungal infections 
Viral Infections 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Leukopeniaa 
Neutropeniaa 
Lymphopeniaa 
Thrombocytopeniaa 
Anaemiaa 
Febrile neutropenia 
Coagulopathy 
Cytokine Release Syndromeb 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia  
Hypersensitivity 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
Hypophosphataemiaa 
Decreased appetite 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Hyperglycaemiaa 
Hypoalbuminemiaa 
Dehydration 
Delirium  
Anxiety  
Insomnia  
Encephalopathy  
Tremor 
Headache  
Aphasia  
Dizziness  
Neuropathy 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class (SOC) 
Frequency 
Common 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Adverse reactions 
Seizure 
Ataxia  
Increased intracranial pressure  
Tachycardias  
Bradycardias  
Non-ventricular arrhythmias  
Hypotension  
Hypertension  
Haemorrhage  
Thrombosis  
Cough  
Dyspnoea  
Pleural effusion  
Hypoxia 
Respiratory failure 
Pulmonary oedema 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea  
Constipation 
Abdominal pain  
Vomiting  
 Oral pain 
Dry mouth  
Dysphagia 
Rash  
Skin disorder 
Musculoskeletal pain  
Motor dysfunction 
Very common 
Renal insufficiency  
Common 
Urine output decreased 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
Oedema  
Fatigue  
Pyrexia 
Pain  
Chills 
Eye Disorders 
Investigations 
Common 
Visual impairment 
Very common 
Common 
Alanine aminotransferase increaseda 
Blood uric acid increaseda  
Aspartate aminotransferase increaseda 
Hypocalcaemiaa 
Hyponatraemiaa 
Direct bilirubin increaseda  
Hypokalaemiaa 
Bilirubin increaseda 
Only cytopenias that resulted in (i) new or worsening clinical sequelae or (ii) that required therapy or (iii) adjustment in 
current therapy are included in Table 3. 
a Frequency based on Grade 3 or higher laboratory parameter. 
b See section Description of selected adverse reactions. 
ZUMA-2 data cutoff: 24 July 2021; ZUMA-3 data cutoff: 23 July 2021 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions from ZUMA-2 and ZUMA-3 (n=182) 
Cytokine release syndrome 
CRS occurred in 91% of patients. Twenty percent (20%) of patients experienced Grade 3 or higher 
(severe or life-threatening) CRS. The median time to onset was 3 days (range: 1 to 13 days) and the 
median duration was 9 days (range: 1 to 63 days). Ninety-seven percent (97%) of patients recovered 
from CRS. 
The most common signs or symptoms associated with CRS among the patients who experienced CRS 
included pyrexia (94%), hypotension (64%), hypoxia (32%), chills (31%), tachycardia (27%), sinus 
tachycardia (23%), headache (22%), fatigue (16%), and nausea (13%). Serious adverse reactions that 
may be associated with CRS included hypotension (22%), pyrexia (15%), hypoxia (9%), tachycardia 
(3%), dyspnoea (2%) and sinus tachycardia (2%). See section 4.4 for monitoring and management 
guidance. 
Neurologic events and adverse reactions 
Neurologic adverse reactions occurred in 69% of patients. Thirty-two percent (32%) of patients 
experienced Grade 3 or higher (severe or life-threatening) adverse reactions. The median time to onset 
was 7 days (range: 1 to 262 days). Neurologic events resolved for 113 out of 125 patients (90.4%) 
with a median duration of 12 days (range: 1 to 708 days). Three patients had ongoing neurologic 
events at the time of death, including one patient with the reported event of serious encephalopathy 
and another patient with the reported event of serious confusional state. The remaining unresolved 
neurologic events were Grade 2. Ninety-three percent of all treated patients experienced the first CRS 
or neurological event within the first 7 days after Tecartus infusion. 
The most common neurologic adverse reactions included tremor (32%), confusional state (27%), 
encephalopathy (27%), aphasia (21%), and agitation (11%). Serious adverse reactions including 
encephalopathy (15%), aphasia (6%) and confusional state (5%) have been reported in patients 
administered Tecartus. ICANS was reported as a serious adverse neurologic reaction at a low 
frequency (2%) in clinical trials. ICANS observed during clinical studies are represented under the 
adverse reaction encephalopathy. Serious cases of cerebral oedema which may become fatal have 
occurred in patients treated with Tecartus. See section 4.4 for monitoring and management guidance. 
ICANS was reported in the context of neurologic toxicity in the post marketing setting. 
Febrile neutropenia and infections 
Febrile neutropenia was observed in 12% of patients after Tecartus infusion. Infections occurred in 87 
of the 182 patients treated with Tecartus in ZUMA-2 and ZUMA-3. Grade 3 or higher (severe, 
life-threatening or fatal) infections occurred in 30% of patients including unspecified pathogen, 
bacterial, fungal and viral infections in 23%, 8%, 2% and 4% of patients respectively. See section 4.4 
for monitoring and management guidance. 
Prolonged cytopenias 
Cytopenias are very common following prior lymphodepleting chemotherapy and Tecartus therapy.  
Prolonged (present on or beyond Day 30 or with an onset at Day 30 or beyond) Grade 3 or higher 
cytopenias occurred in 48% of patients and included neutropenia (34%), thrombocytopenia (27%) and 
anaemia (15%). See section 4.4 for management guidance. 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia occurred in 12% of patients. Grade 3 or higher hypogammaglobulinemia 
occurred in 1% of patients. See section 4.4 for management guidance. 
Immunogenicity 
The immunogenicity of Tecartus has been evaluated using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) for the detection of binding antibodies against FMC63, the originating antibody of the 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anti-CD19 CAR. To date, no anti-CD19 CAR T-cell antibody immunogenicity has been observed in 
MCL patients. Based on an initial screening assay, 17 patients in ZUMA-2 at any time point tested 
positive for antibodies; however, a confirmatory orthogonal cell-based assay demonstrated that all 17 
patients in ZUMA-2 were antibody negative at all time points tested. Based on an initial screening 
assay, 16 patients in ZUMA-3 tested positive for antibodies at any timepoint. Among patients with 
evaluable samples for confirmatory testing, two patients were confirmed to be antibody-positive after 
treatment. One of the two patients had a confirmed positive antibody result at Month 6. The second 
patient had a confirmed positive antibody result at retreatment Day 28 and Month 3. There is no 
evidence that the kinetics of initial expansion, CAR T-cell function and persistence of Tecartus, or the 
safety or effectiveness of Tecartus, were altered in these patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There are no data regarding the signs of overdose with Tecartus. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other antineoplastic agents, ATC code: L01XL06. 
Mechanism of action 
Tecartus, a CD19-directed genetically modified autologous T-cell immunotherapy, binds to CD19 
expressing cancer cells and normal B cells. Following anti-CD19 CAR T-cell engagement with CD19 
expressing target cells, the CD28 co-stimulatory domain and CD3-zeta signalling domain activate 
downstream signalling cascades that lead to T-cell activation, proliferation, acquisition of effector 
functions and secretion of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. This sequence of events leads to 
killing of CD19-expressing cells. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In both ZUMA-2 and ZUMA-3, after Tecartus infusion, pharmacodynamic responses were evaluated 
over a 4-week interval by measuring transient elevation of cytokines, chemokines, and other molecules 
in blood. Levels of cytokines and chemokines such as IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-15, TNF-α, 
interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) and IL-2 receptor alpha were analysed. Peak elevation was generally 
observed within the first 8 days after infusion and levels generally returned to baseline within 28 days. 
Due to the on target, off-tumour effect of Tecartus a period of B-cell aplasia may occur following 
treatment. 
Translational analyses performed to identify associations between cytokine levels and incidence of 
CRS or neurologic events showed that higher levels (peak and AUC at 1 month) of multiple serum 
analytes, including IL-6, IL-10 and TNF-α, were associated with Grade 3 or higher neurologic adverse 
reactions and Grade 3 or higher CRS. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Relapsed or refractory MCL: ZUMA-2 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy and safety of Tecartus in adult patients with relapsed or refractory MCL who had 
previously received anthracycline or bendamustine-containing chemotherapy, an anti CD20 antibody, 
and a Bruton’s tyrosine kinase inhibitor (BTKi) (ibrutinib or acalabrutinib), was evaluated in a phase 2 
single-arm, open-label, multi-centre trial. Eligible patients also had disease progression after last 
regimen or refractory disease to the most recent therapy. Patients with active or serious infections, 
prior allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), detectable cerebrospinal fluid 
malignant cells or brain metastases, and any history of CNS lymphoma or CNS disorders were 
ineligible. In ZUMA-2, a total of, 74 patients were enrolled (i.e. leukapheresed) and 68 of these 
patients were treated with Tecartus. Three patients did not receive Tecartus due to manufacturing 
failure. Two other patients were not treated due to progressive disease (death) following leukapheresis. 
One patient was not treated with Tecartus after receiving lymphodepleting chemotherapy due to 
ongoing active atrial fibrillation. The full analysis set (FAS) was defined as all patients who underwent 
leukapheresis. A summary of the patient baseline characteristics is provided in Table 4. 
Table 4 
Summary of baseline characteristics for ZUMA-2 
Category 
Age (years) 
Median (min, max) 
≥ 65 
Male gender 
Median number of prior therapies (min, max) 
Relapsed/refractory subgroup 
Relapsed after auto-SCT 
Refractory to last MCL therapy 
Relapsed after last MCL therapy 
Patients with disease stage IV 
Patients with bone marrow involvement 
Morphological characteristic 
Classical MCL 
Blastoid MCL 
Other 
Unknown 
Received bridging therapy 
Yes 
No 
Ki-67 IHC by central laboratory 
N 
Median 
All leukapheresed (FAS) 
(N=74) 
65 (38, 79) 
58% 
84% 
3 (1; 5) 
42% 
39% 
19% 
86% 
51% 
54% 
26% 
1% 
19% 
38% 
62% 
49 
65% 
Auto-SCT, autologous stem cell transplant; IHC, immunohistochemistry; Max, maximum; MCL, mantle cell lymphoma; 
Min, minimum. 
Tecartus was administered to patients as a single intravenous infusion at a target dose of 
2 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR T cells/kg (maximum permitted dose: 2 × 108 cells) after lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy regimen of cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m² intravenously and fludarabine 30 mg/m² 
intravenously, both given on the 5th, 4th, and 3rd day before treatment. Bridging therapy between 
leukapheresis and lymphodepleting chemotherapy was permitted to control disease burden. 
For patients treated with Tecartus, the median time from leukapheresis to product release was 13 days 
(range: 9 to 20 days) and the median time from leukapheresis to Tecartus infusion was 27 days (range: 
19 to 74 days, with the exception of one outlier of 134 days). The median dose was 
16 
 
 
 
 
2.0 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR T cells/kg. All patients received Tecartus infusion on day 0 and were 
hospitalized until day 7 at the minimum. 
The primary endpoint was objective response rate (ORR) as determined by Lugano 2014 criteria by an 
independent review committee. Secondary endpoints included duration of response (DOR), overall 
survival (OS), progression free survival (PFS) and severity of adverse events. 
For the primary analysis,  the analysis set was defined a priori which consisted of the first 60 patients 
treated with Tecartus who were evaluated for response 6 months after the Week 4 disease assessment 
after Tecartus infusion. In this analysis set of 60 patients the ORR was 93% with a CR rate of 67%. 
The ORR was significantly higher than the prespecified historical control rate of 25% at a 1-sided 
significance level of 0.025 (p < 0.0001).  
The updated 24-month follow-up analyses of efficacy were conducted using the modified intent to 
treat (mITT) analysis set, which consisted of 68 patients treated with Tecartus. In the 24-month follow 
up analysis, the ORR and CR rates in the 68 patients in the mITT analysis set were 91% and 68% 
respectively.  
Results in the FAS from both the primary analysis and 24-month follow-up analysis are shown in 
Table 5. 
Table 5 
Summary of efficacy results for ZUMA-2 
Category 
Objective response rate (ORR), n (%) 
[95% CI] 
CR n (%) [95% CI] 
PR n (%) [95% CI] 
Duration of response (DOR)b 
Median in months [95% CI] 
Range c in months 
Ongoing responses, CR+PR, CR, n (%) d 
Progression free survival 
Median, months [95% CI] 
Overall survival 
All leukapheresed a(FAS) 
(N = 74) 
Primary Analysis 
24-month Follow-Up 
62 (84%) [73.4, 91.3] 
62 (84%) [73.4, 91.3] 
44 (59%) [47.4, 70.7] 
18 (24%) [15.1, 35.7] 
46 (62%) [50.1, 73.2]  
16 (22%)[12.9, 32.7]  
NR [10.4, NE] 
0.0+, 35.0+ 
32 (43%), 30 (41%) 
28.2 (13.5, 47.1) 
0.0+, 53.0+ 
25 (34%), 25 (34%) 
16.2 [9.9, NE] 
24.0 (10.1, 48.2) 
Median, months [95% CI] 
6 month OS (%) [95% CI] 
12 month OS (%) [95% CI] 
24 month OS (%) [95% CI] 
30 month OS (%) [95% CI] 
36 month OS (%) [95% CI] 
54 month OS (%) [95% CI] 
47.4 (24.6, NE)  
83.6 [72.9, 90.3] 
76.7 [65.3, 84.8] 
63.0 [50.9, 70.3] 
56.2 (44.1, 66.7) 
53.9 (41.5, 64.8) 
38.7 (24.8, 52.4)  
Median Follow-up in months (min, max) 
36.6 (27.3, 57.0) 
CI, confidence interval; CR, complete remission; FAS, full analysis set;; NE, not estimable; NR, not reached; OS, overall 
survival; PR, partial remission. 
a 
NR [24.6, NE] 
83.6 [72.9, 90.3] 
76.6 [65.1, 84.8] 
66.5 [52.8, 77.1] 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
16.8 [7.2, 37.6] 
Of the 74 patients that were enrolled (i.e. leukapheresed), 69 patients received lymphodepleting chemotherapy, and 
68 patients received Tecartus. 
Among all responders. DOR is measured from the date of first objective response to the date of progression or death.  
A + sign indicates a censored value. 
At the data cutoff date. Percentages are calculated using the total number of patients in the analysis set as the 
denominator. 
b 
c 
d 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  Kaplan Meier DOR in the FAS 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Tecartus in all subsets of the paediatric population in treatment of MCL (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
Relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL: ZUMA-3 
A Phase 2, open-label, multicenter trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of Tecartus in adult patients 
with relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL. Relapsed or refractory was defined as one of the 
following: primary refractory; first relapse following a remission lasting ≤ 12 months; relapsed or 
refractory after second-line or higher therapy; relapsed or refractory after allogeneic stem cell 
transplant (allo-SCT) (provided the transplant occurred ≥ 100 days prior to enrollment and that no 
immunosuppressive medications were taken ≤ 4 weeks prior to enrollment). The study excluded 
patients with active or serious infections, active graft-vs-host disease, and any history of CNS 
disorders. Patients with CNS-2 disease without clinically evident neurologic changes were eligible. In 
ZUMA-3 Phase 2, a total of 71 patients were enrolled (i.e. leukapheresed) and 55 patients were treated 
with Tecartus. Six patients did not receive Tecartus due to manufacturing failure. Eight other patients 
were not treated, primarily due to AEs following leukapheresis. Two patients who underwent 
leukapheresis and received lymphodepleting chemotherapy were not treated with Tecartus; one patient 
experienced bacteremia and neutropenic fever and the other patient did not meet eligibility criteria 
after lymphodepleting chemotherapy. The FAS included all patients who underwent leukapheresis and 
the modified intent to treat (mITT) analysis set includes all patients leukapheresed and treated with 
Tecartus in Phase 2. A summary of patient baseline characteristics is provided in Table 6. 
Table 6  
Summary of baseline characteristics for ZUMA-3 Phase 2 
Category 
Age (years) 
Median (min, max) 
Male gender 
White ethnicity 
Primary refractory disease 
Relapsed/refractory disease after 
≥ 2 lines of therapy 
Relapse with first remission ≤ 12 
months 
All leukapheresed (FAS) 
(N=71) 
All treated (mITT) 
(N=55) 
44 (19 to 84) 
58% 
72% 
30% 
76% 
28% 
18 
40 (19 to 84) 
60% 
67% 
33% 
78% 
29% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category 
All leukapheresed (FAS) 
(N=71) 
All treated (mITT) 
(N=55) 
Number of Lines of Prior Therapy 
Median (min, max) 
≥ 3 
Prior Therapies 
Allo-SCT 
Blinatumomab 
Inotuzumab 
2 (1 to 8) 
48% 
39% 
46% 
23% 
27% 
Philadelphia chromosome (Ph+) 
Allo-SCT, allogenic stem cell transplant; Max, maximum; Min, minimum 
2 (1 to 8) 
47% 
42% 
45% 
22% 
27% 
Following lymphodepleting chemotherapy, Tecartus was administered to patients as a single 
intravenous infusion at a target dose of 1 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR T cells/kg (maximum permitted dose: 
1 × 108 cells). The lymphodepleting regimen consisted of cyclophosphamide 900 mg/m2  intravenously 
over 60 mins on the 2nd day before Tecartus infusion and fludarabine 25 mg/m2 intravenously over 30 
mins on the 4th, 3rd, and 2nd day before Tecartus infusion. Of the 55 patients who recived Tecartus, 51 
patients received bridging therapy between leukapheresis and lymphodepleting chemotherapy to 
control disease burden. 
The median time from leukapheresis to product delivery was 16 days (range: 11 to 42 days) and the 
median time from leukapheresis to Tecartus infusion was 29 days (range: 20 to 60 days). The median 
dose was 1.0 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR T cells/kg. All patients received Tecartus infusion on day 0 and 
were hospitalized until day 7 at the minimum. 
The primary endpoint was overall complete remission rate (OCR) (complete remission [CR] + 
complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery [CRi]) in patients treated with Tecartus as 
determined by an independent review. In the 55 patients treated with Tecatrus (mITT), the OCR rate 
was 70.9% with a CR rate of 56.4% (Table 7), which was significantly greater than the prespecified 
control rate of 40%. Among the 39 patients who achieved a CR or CRi, the median time to response 
was 1.1 months (range: 0.85 to 2.99 months).  
All treated patients had potential follow-up for ≥ 18 months with a median follow-up time of 20.5 
months (95% CI: 0.3, 32.6 months) and a median follow-up time for OS of 24.0 months (95% CI: 
23.3, 24.6). 
Table 7  
Summary of efficacy results for ZUMA3 Phase 2 
OCR rate (CR + CRi) n (%) [95% CI] 
CR rate, n (%) [95% CI] 
FAS 
N = 71 
39 (54.9) [43, 67] 
31 (43.7) [32, 56] 
Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) negative rate 
among OCR (CR or CRi) patients, n (%) 
n = 39 
38 (97%) 
mITTa 
N = 55 
39 (70.9) [57.0, 
82.0] 
31 (56.4) [42.0, 
70.0] 
n = 39 
38 (97%) 
Duration of Remission, median in months [95% CI] b 
Median range in months 
14.6 [9.4, NE]c 
(0.03+, 24.08+) 
14.6 [9.4, NE]c 
(0.03+, 24.08+) 
CI, confidence interval; CR, complete remission; NE, not estimable 
a.  Of the 71 patients that were enrolled (and leukapheresed), 57 patients received conditioning chemotherapy, and 55 
patients received Tecartus. 
b.  Subjects were censored at their last evaluable disease assessment before initiation of a new anticancer therapy 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(excluding resumption of a tyrosine kinase inhibitor) or allo-SCT to exclude any contribution that the new therapy 
might have on DOR that could confound the contribution of KTE-X19. The results of the analyses that did not censor 
for subsequent allo-SCT or the initiation of new anti-cancer therapy were consistent with the analyses that did censor 
the events. 
c.  The duration of remission was defined only for subjects achieving an OCR, therefore the results of the analysis in the 
FAS and mITT were identical. 
Figure 2   Kaplan Meier DOR in the mITT Analysis Seta 
a.  The DOR was defined only for subjects achieving an OCR, therefore the results of the analysis in the FAS and mITT 
were identical. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Tecartus in one or more subsets of the B-cell ALL paediatric population and waived the obligation to 
submit the results of studies with Tecartus for the treatment of ALL in the paediatric population 
weighing less than 6kg. See section 4.2 for information on paediatric use. 
Conditional Approval 
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme.  
This means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited in both the MCL and ALL  
patient population. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicinal product at least every 
year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Cellular kinetics 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
Following infusion of 2 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR T cells/kg of Tecartus in ZUMA-2, anti-CD19 CAR 
T cells exhibited an initial rapid expansion followed by a decline to near baseline levels by 3 months. 
Peak levels of anti-CD19 CAR T cells occurred within the first 7 to 15 days after the infusion. 
Among patients with MCL, the number of anti-CD19 CAR T cells in blood was associated with 
objective response (CR or PR) (Table 8). 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
Summary of brexucabtagene autoleucel pharmacokinetics in ZUMA-2 
Number of anti-CD19 CAR T cell 
Peak (cells/μL) 
Median [min; max], n 
AUC0–28 (cells/μL·day) 
Median [min; max], n 
P-value is calculated by Wilcoxon test 
Responding patients 
(CR or PR) 
(N=63) 
97.52 [0.24, 2 589.47], 62 
1 386.28 [3.83 to 
2.77 × 104], 62 
Non-responding patients 
P-Value 
(N=5) 
0.39 [0.16, 22.02], 5 
0.0020 
5.51 [1.81, 293.86], 5 
0.0013 
Median peak anti-CD19 CAR T-cell values were 74.08 cells/μL in MCL patients ≥65 years of age 
(n=39) and 112.45 cells/μL in MCL patients <65 years of age (n=28). Median anti-CD19 CAR T-cell 
AUC values were 876.48 cells/μL∙day in MCL patients ≥65 years of age and 1 640.21 cells/μL∙day in 
MCL patients <65 years of age. 
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
Following infusion of a target dose of 1 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR T cells/kg of Tecartus in ZUMA-3 
(Phase 2), anti-CD19 CAR T cells exhibited an initial rapid expansion followed by a decline to near 
baseline levels by 3 months. Median time to peak levels of anti-CD19 CAR T cells was within the first 
15 days after Tecartus infusion. 
A summary of the Tecartus pharmacokinetics over time, based on central assessment by overall 
response, is provided in Table 9.     
Summary of brexucabtagene autoleucel pharmacokinetics in  ZUMA-3 Phase 2 
Table 9 
Number of anti-CD19 CAR 
T cell 
Peak (cells/μL) 
Median [min; max], n 
AUC0–28 (cells/μL·day) 
Median [min; max], n 
Patients with overall 
complete remission (CR/CRi) 
(N=39) 
38.35 [1.31, 1 533.4],  
36b 
424.03 [14.12 to 19 390.42], 
36b 
Patients with non-
complete remissiona 
(N=16) 
0.49 [0.00, 183.50],  
14b 
4.12 [0.00, 642.25],  
14b 
P-Value 
0.0001c 
0.0001c 
a.  Three of 39 subjects who achieved CR or CRi and 2 of 16 subjects who were non-CR/CRi had no anti-CD19 CAR T-
cell data at any postinfusion visit.  
b. Noncomplete remission includes all non-CR/CRi subjects whose response is classified incomplete remission response 
with partial hematologic recovery, blast-free hypoplastic or aplastic bone marrow (N = 4), partial response (N = 0), 
no response (N = 9), or not evaluable (N = 3). 
c. .Pvalue is calculated by Wilcoxon test 
Median peak anti-CD19 CAR T-cell values were 34.8 cells/μL in ALL patients ≥65 years of age (n=8) 
and 17.4 cells/μL in ALL patients <65 years of age (n=47). Median anti-CD19 CAR T-cell AUC 
values were 425.0 cells/μL∙day in ALL patients ≥65 years of age and 137.7 cells/μL∙day in ALL 
patients <65 years of age. 
In MCL and ALL patients, gender had no significant impact on AUCDay 0–28 and Cmax of Tecartus. 
Studies of Tecartus in patients with hepatic and renal impairment were not conducted. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Tecartus comprises engineered human T cells; therefore, there are no representative in vitro assays, 
ex vivo models, or in vivo models that can accurately address the toxicological characteristics of the 
human product. Hence, traditional toxicology studies used for medicinal product development were 
not performed. 
No carcinogenicity or genotoxicity studies have been conducted. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effects of this treatment on fertility, reproduction, and 
development. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Cryostor CS10 (contains DMSO) 
Sodium chloride 
Human albumin 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Tecartus is stable for 1 year when stored frozen in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (≤ − 150°C). 
Tecartus is stable at room temperature (20 °C to 25 °C) for up to 3 hours after thawing. However, 
Tecartus infusion must begin within 30 minutes of thaw completion and the total infusion time should 
not exceed 30 minutes.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Tecartus must be stored in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (≤ − 150 °C) and must remain frozen 
until the patient is ready for treatment to ensure viable live autologous cells are available for patient 
administration. Thawed product must not be refrozen. 
For storage conditions after thawing of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container and special equipment for use, administration or 
implantation 
Ethylene-vinyl acetate cryostorage bag with sealed addition tube and two available spike ports, 
containing approximately 68 mL of cell dispersion. 
One cryostorage bag is individually packed in a shipping metal cassette. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Irradiation could lead to inactivation of the product. 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
Tecartus must be transported within the facility in closed, break-proof, leak-proof containers.  
This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Tecartus must 
take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves and eye protection) to avoid potential transmission of 
infectious diseases. 
Preparation prior to administration 
• 
Verify that the patient’s identity (ID) matches the patient identifiers on the Tecartus metal 
cassette. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Tecartus infusion bag must not be removed from the metal cassette if the information on the 
patientspecific label does not match the intended patient. 
Once the patient ID is confirmed, remove the infusion bag from the metal cassette. 
Check that the patient information on the metal cassette label matches that on the bag label. 
Inspect the infusion bag for any breaches of container integrity before thawing. If the bag is 
compromised, follow the local guidelines for handling of waste of humanderived material (and 
immediately contact Kite). 
Thawing 
• 
• 
• 
Place the infusion bag inside a second bag. 
Thaw Tecartus at approximately 37 °C using either a water bath or dry thaw method until there 
is no visible ice in the infusion bag. Gently mix the contents of the bag to disperse clumps of 
cellular material. If visible cell clumps remain, continue to gently mix the contents of the bag. 
Small clumps of cellular material should disperse with gentle manual mixing. Tecartus must not 
be washed, spun down, and/or re-suspended in new media prior to infusion. Thawing should 
take approximately 3 to 5 minutes. 
Once thawed, Tecartus is stable at room temperature (20 °C – 25 °C) for up to 3 hours. 
However, Tecartus infusion must begin within 30 minutes of thaw completion. 
Administration 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
For autologous single use only. 
Tocilizumab and emergency equipment must be available prior to infusion and during the 
monitoring period. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage 
that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, suitable alternative 
measures to treat CRS instead of tocilizumab must be available prior to infusion. 
A leukodepleting filter must not be used. 
Central venous access is recommended for the administration of Tecartus. 
Verify the patient ID again to match the patient identifiers on the Tecartus bag. 
Prime the tubing with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection (0.154 mmol 
sodium per mL) prior to infusion. 
Infuse the entire content of the Tecartus bag within 30 minutes by either gravity or a peristaltic 
pump.  
Gently agitate the bag during infusion to prevent cell clumping. 
After the entire content of the bag is infused, rinse the tubing at the same infusion rate with 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection (0.154 mmol sodium per mL) to ensure 
all the treatment is delivered. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Tecartus (solid and liquid 
waste) must be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on the handling of waste of human-derived material. 
Accidental exposure 
In case of accidental exposure to Tecartus local guidelines on handling of human-derived material 
must be followed. Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with Tecartus 
must be decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Kite Pharma EU B.V. 
Tufsteen 1 
2132 NT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1492/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 14 December 2020 
Date of latest renewal: 15 November 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE CONDITIONAL 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance 
Kite Pharma, Inc. 
2355 Utah Avenue 
El Segundo 
California 
CA 90245 
United States 
Kite Pharma EU B.V. 
Tufsteen 1 
2132 NT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Kite Pharma EU B.V. 
Tufsteen 1 
2132 NT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Key elements: 
Availability of tocilizumab and site qualification 
The MAH will ensure that hospitals and their associated centres that dispense Tecartus are qualified in 
accordance with the agreed controlled distribution programme by: 
• 
ensuring immediate, on-site access to one dose of tocilizumab per patient prior to Tecartus 
infusion. The treatment centre must have access to an additional dose of tocilizumab within 8 
hours of each previous dose. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a 
shortage that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, ensuring that 
suitable alternative measures to treat CRS instead of tocilizumab are available on-site. 
ensuring healthcare professionals (HCP) involved in the treatment of a patient have completed 
the educational programme. 
as part of site qualification training, ensuring HCPs are made aware of the need to contact the 
MAH to obtain recommendations for tumour sample collection and testing following the 
development of a secondary malignancy. 
• 
• 
Educational program – Prior to the launch of Tecartus in each Member State the MAH must agree 
the content and format of the educational materials with the National Competent Authority. 
HCP Educational program 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Tecartus is marketed, all HCPs who are 
expected to prescribe, dispense, and administer Tecartus shall be provided with a guidance document 
to: 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
provide information about the safety and efficacy long-term follow up study and the 
importance of contributing to such a study 
facilitate identification of CRS and serious neurologic adverse reactions 
facilitate management of the CRS and serious neurologic adverse reactions 
ensure adequate monitoring of CRS and serious neurologic adverse reactions 
facilitate provision of all relevant information to patients 
ensure that adverse reactions are adequately and appropriately reported 
before treating a patient, ensure that at least 1 dose of tocilizumab for each patient is 
available on site. The qualified treatment centre must have access to additional doses of 
tocilizumab within 8 hours; in the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due 
to a shortage that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, ensure 
that suitable alternative measures to treat CRS are available on site 
Patient Educational program 
To inform and explain to patients: 
– 
– 
– 
– 
the risks of CRS and serious neurologic adverse reactions, associated with Tecartus 
the need to report the symptoms to their treating doctor immediately 
the need to remain in the proximity of the location where Tecartus was received for at 
least 4 weeks following Tecartus infusion 
the need to carry the patient alert card at all times 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
In order to further characterise the long-term efficacy and 
safety of Tecartus in adult patients with relapsed or refractory 
(r/r) mantle cell Lymphoma (MCL) and adult patients with r/r 
acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) the MAH shall conduct 
and submit the results of a prospective study based on data 
from a registry, according to an agreed protocol. 
Due date 
MCL: 31 March 2043 
ALL: 31 December 2042 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14-a of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
In order to confirm the long-term efficacy and safety of Tecartus in adult 
patients with relapsed or refractory MCL and the Benefit/Risk balance in the 
female, elderly and severely diseased patients, the MAH shall submit the 
results of a prospective study investigating efficacy and safety based on data 
from the same registry used to characterise the long-term efficacy and safety of 
Tecartus, according to an agreed protocol. 
In order to confirm the long-term efficacy and safety of Tecartus in adult 
patients with r/r ALL, the MAH shall submit follow-up results of the ZUMA-3 
clinical study (Part 1 and Part 2). 
In order to confirm the long-term efficacy and safety of Tecartus in adult 
patients with r/r ALL, the MAH should conduct and submit the results of a 
prospective, observational study based on data from a registry,according to an 
agreed protocol. 
Due date 
30 April 2027 
31 October 2024 
31 December 2027 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
METAL CASSETTE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tecartus 0.4 – 2 × 108 cells dispersion for infusion 
brexucabtagene autoleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Autologous human T cells transduced with retroviral vector encoding an anti-CD19 chimeric antigen 
receptor (CAR). 
This medicine contains cells of human origin. 
Contains: 0.4 to 2 × 108 CAR+ viable T cells. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Cryostor CS10 (contains DMSO), human albumin, sodium chloride.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersion for infusion 
One sterile infusion bag. 
Contents: approximately 68 mL of cell dispersion. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Do not irradiate. 
Gently mix the contents of the bag while thawing. 
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter. 
STOP confirm patient ID prior to infusion. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For intravenous use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For autologous use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store frozen in vapour phase of liquid nitrogen ≤ − 150 °C. 
Do not refreeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Kite Pharma EU B.V. 
Tufsteen 1 
2132 NT Hoofddorp  
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1492/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Lot: 
Kite Patient ID: 
Additional Patient ID: 
Patient Name: 
Patient DOB: 
SEC: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
33 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
INFUSION BAG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Tecartus 0.4 – 2 × 108 cells dispersion for infusion 
brexucabtagene autoleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
For intravenous use only. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Lot: 
Kite Patient ID: 
Additional Patient ID: 
Patient Name: 
Patient DOB: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
Contents: approximately 68 mL of cell dispersion. 
6. 
OTHER 
For autologous use only. 
Verify patient ID. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Tecartus 0.4 – 2 × 108 cells dispersion for infusion 
brexucabtagene autoleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
– 
– 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will give you a Patient Alert Card. Read it carefully and follow the instructions on 
it. 
Always show the Patient Alert Card to the doctor or nurse when you see them or if you go to 
hospital. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
– 
– 
– 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Tecartus is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Tecartus 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Tecartus is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Tecartus 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Tecartus is and what it is used for 
Tecartus is a gene therapy medicine used for treating mantle cell lymphoma and B-cell acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia in adults. It is used when other medicines have stopped working for you 
(relapsed or refractory disease). The medicine is made specially for you from your own white blood 
cells that have been modified and is known as brexucabtagene autoleucel. 
Mantle cell lymphoma and B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia are cancers of a part of the immune 
system (the body’s defences). They affect a type of white blood cell called B-lymphocytes. In both 
mantle cell lymphoma and B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, B-lymphocytes grow in an 
uncontrolled way and build up in the lymph tissue, bone marrow or blood. 
How Tecartus works 
The white blood cells are taken from your blood and are genetically modified so that they can target 
the cancer cells in your body. When Tecartus is infused into your blood, the modified white blood 
cells will kill the cancer cells. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Tecartus 
You are not to be given Tecartus 
– 
if you are allergic to any of the ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). If you think you 
may be allergic, ask your doctor for advice. 
if you can’t receive the medicine to reduce the number of white blood cells in your blood 
(lymphodepleting chemotherapy) (see also section 3, How Tecartus is given). 
– 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Tecartus is made from your own white blood cells and must only be given to you (autologous use).  
Tests and checks 
Before you are given Tecartus your doctor will: 
• 
• 
Check your lungs, heart, kidney and blood pressure. 
Look for signs of infection or inflammation; and decide whether you need to be treated before 
you are given Tecartus. 
Check if your cancer is getting worse. 
Look for signs of graft-versus-host disease that can happen after a transplant. This happens 
when transplanted cells attack your body, causing symptoms such as rash, nausea, vomiting, 
diarrhoea and bloody stools. 
Check your blood for uric acid and for how many cancer cells there are in your blood. This will 
show if you are likely to develop a condition called tumour lysis syndrome. You may be given 
medicines to help prevent the condition. 
Check for hepatitis B, hepatitis C or HIV infection. 
Check if you had a vaccination in the previous 6 weeks or are planning to have one in the next 
few months. 
Check if you have previously received a treatment that attaches to the protein called CD19. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
In some cases, it might not be possible to go ahead with the planned treatment with Tecartus. If 
Tecartus infusion is delayed for more than 2 weeks after you have received lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy you may have to receive more chemotherapy (see also section 3, How Tecartus is 
given). 
After you have been given Tecartus 
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately or get emergency help right away if you have any of the 
following: 
• 
Chills, extreme tiredness, weakness, dizziness, headache, cough, shortness of breath, rapid or 
irregular heartbeat, severe nausea, vomiting, or diarrhoea which may be symptoms of a 
condition known as cytokine release syndrome. Take your temperature twice a day for 3 to 
4 weeks after treatment with Tecartus. If your temperature is high, see your doctor immediately. 
Fits, shaking, or difficulty speaking or slurred speech, loss of consciousness or decreased level 
of consciousness, confusion and disorientation, loss of balance or coordination. 
Fever (e.g. temperature above 38°C), which may be a symptom of an infection. 
Extreme tiredness, weakness and shortness of breath, which may be symptoms of a lack of red 
blood cells. 
Bleeding or bruising more easily, which may be symptoms of low levels of cells in the blood 
known as platelets. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or nurse.  
Your doctor will regularly check your blood counts as the number of blood cells and other blood 
components may decrease. 
You will be asked to enrol in a registry for at least 15 years in order to better understand the long-term 
effects of Tecartus.  
Do not donate blood, organs, tissues, or cells for transplants. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children,adolescents and young adults 
Tecartus must not be used in children and adolescents below 18 years of age or young adults below 
26 years of age. 
Other medicines and Tecartus 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Before you are given Tecartus tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking any medicines that weaken 
your immune system such as corticosteroids, since these medicines may interfere with the effect of 
Tecartus. 
In particular, you must not be given certain vaccines called live vaccines: 
• 
In the 6 weeks before you are given the short course of lymphodepleting chemotherapy to 
prepare your body for the Tecartus cells. 
During Tecartus treatment. 
After treatment while the immune system is recovering. 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor if you need to have any vaccinations. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before being given this medicine. This is because the effects of Tecartus in 
pregnant or breast-feeding women are not known, and it may harm your unborn baby or your 
breast-fed child. 
• 
If you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant after treatment with Tecartus, talk to your 
doctor immediately. 
You will be given a pregnancy test before treatment starts. Tecartus can only be given if the 
results show you are not pregnant. 
• 
Discuss pregnancy with your doctor if you have received Tecartus. 
Driving and using machines 
Tecartus can cause problems such as altered or decreased consciousness, confusion and seizures (fits) 
in the 8 weeks after it is given. 
Do not drive, use machines, or take part in activities that need you to be alert for at least 8 weeks after 
your Tecartus treatment or until your doctor tells you that you have completely recovered. 
Tecartus contains sodium, dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) and gentamicin 
This medicine contains 300 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each infusion bag. 
This is equivalent to 15% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. It 
also contains DMSO and gentamicin which may cause severe hypersensitivity reactions. 
3. 
How Tecartus is given 
Tecartus will always be given to you by a healthcare professional. 
• 
Since Tecartus is made from your own white blood cells, your cells will be collected from you 
to prepare your medicine. Your doctor will take some of your blood using a catheter placed in 
your vein (a procedure call leukapheresis). Some of your white blood cells are separated from 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
your blood and the rest of your blood is returned to your vein. This can take 3 to 6 hours and 
may need to be repeated. 
Your white blood cells are sent away to a manufacturing center to make your Tecartus. It 
usually takes about 2 to 3 weeks to make Tecartus but the time may vary. 
• 
Medicines given before Tecartus treatment 
A few days before you receive Tecartus, you will be given lymphodepleting chemotherapy, which will 
allow the modified white blood cells in Tecartus to multiply in your body when the medicine is given 
to you. 
During the 30 to 60 minutes before you are given Tecartus you may be given other medicines. This is 
to help prevent infusion reactions and fever. These other medicines may include: 
• 
• 
Paracetamol. 
An antihistamine such as diphenhydramine. 
How you are given Tecartus 
Tecartus will always be given to you by a doctor in a qualified treatment centre. 
• 
• 
• 
Tecartus is given in a single dose. 
Your doctor or nurse will give you a single infusion of Tecartus through a catheter placed into 
your vein (intravenous infusion) over about 30 minutes. 
Tecartus is the genetically modified version of your white blood cells. Your healthcare 
professional handling the treatment will therefore take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves 
and glasses) to avoid potential transmission of infectious diseases and will follow local 
guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material to clean up or dispose of any 
material that has been in contact with it. 
After you are given Tecartus 
• 
You must stay close to the hospital where you were treated for at least 4 weeks after Tecartus 
treatment. Your doctor will recommend that you return to the hospital daily for at least 10 days 
or that you stay at the hospital as an in-patient for the first 10 days after Tecartus treatment. This 
is so your doctor can check if your treatment is working and help you if you have any side 
effects. 
If you miss any appointments, call your doctor or your treatment centre as soon as possible to 
reschedule your appointment. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Do not try 
to treat your side effects on your own. 
Tecartus can cause side effects that may be serious or life-threatening. Get urgent medical attention 
if you get any of the following side effects after the Tecartus infusion. 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
– 
– 
Fever, chills, reduced blood pressure which may cause symptoms such as dizziness, 
lightheadedness, fluid in the lungs, which may be severe and can be fatal (all symptoms of a 
condition called cytokine release syndrome). 
Loss of consciousness or decreased level of consciousness, confusion or memory loss due to 
disturbances of brain function, difficulty speaking or slurred speech, involuntary shaking 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(tremor), fits (seizures), sudden confusion with agitation, disorientation, hallucination or 
irritability (delirium). 
Fever, chills, which may be signs of an infection. 
– 
Other possible side effects 
Other side effects are listed below. If these side effects become severe or serious, tell your doctor 
immediately. 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
Abnormally low number of white blood cells, which may increase your risk of infection.  
Low number of cells that help clot the blood (thrombocytopenia),: symptoms can include 
excessive or prolonged bleeding or bruising. 
High blood pressure. 
Decrease in the number of red blood cells (cells that carry oxygen): symptoms can include 
extreme tiredness with a loss of energy. 
Extreme tiredness. 
Fast or slow heartbeat. 
Decrease of oxygen reaching body tissues: symptoms can include changes to the colour of your 
skin, confusion, rapid breathing. 
Shortness of breath, cough. 
Excessive bleeding. 
Nausea, constipation, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, vomiting. 
– 
– 
– 
–  Muscle pain, joint pain, bone pain, pain in the extremities of the body. 
– 
– 
– 
Lack of energy or strength, muscular weakness, difficulty moving, muscle spasm. 
Headache. 
Kidney problems causing your body to hold onto fluid, build-up of fluids in tissue (oedema) 
which can lead to weight gain and difficulty in breathing. 
High levels of uric acid and sugar (glucose)seen in blood tests. 
Low levels of sodium, magnesium, phosphate, potassium or calcium seen in blood tests. 
Decreased appetite, sore mouth. 
Difficulty sleeping, anxiety. 
Swelling in the limbs, fluid around the lungs (pleural effusion). 
Skin rash or skin problems. 
Low levels of immunoglobulins seen in blood test, which may lead to infections. 
Increase in liver enzymes seen in blood tests. 
Nerve pain. 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
Low levels of albumin seen in blood tests. 
High levels of bilirubin seen in blood tests. 
Irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia). 
Loss of control of body movements. 
Dry mouth, dehydration, difficulty swallowing.  
Decreased output of urine (due to kidney problems described above). 
Breathlessness (respiratory failure). 
Difficulty breathing which makes you unable to speak in full sentence, cough due to fluid in the 
lungs. 
Increase of the pressure inside your skull. 
Blood clots: symptoms can include pain in the chest or upper back, difficulty breathing, 
coughing up blood or cramping pain, swelling in a single leg, warm and darkened skin around 
the painful area. 
Alteration of the blood ability to form clots (coagulopathy): symptoms can include excessive or 
prolonged bleeding or bruising. 
Changes in vision which makes it difficult to see things (visual impairment). 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
– 
Hypersensitivity: symptoms such as rash, hives, itching, swelling and anaphylaxis. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tecartus 
The following information is intended for doctors only. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the container label and infusion bag 
after EXP. 
Store frozen in vapour phase of liquid nitrogen ≤ − 150 °C until thawed for use. 
Do not refreeze. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Tecartus contains 
The active substance is brexucabtagene autoleucel (0.4 – 2 × 108 cells dispersion for infusion). Each 
patient-specific single infusion bag contains a dispersion of anti-CD19 CAR-positive viable T cells in 
approximately 68 mL for a target dose of 2 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR-positive viable T cells/kg for mantle 
cell lymphoma patients and a target dose of 1 × 106 anti-CD19 CAR-positive viable T cells/kg for B-
cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia patients. 
The other ingredients (excipients) are: Cryostor CS10 (contains DMSO), sodium chloride, human 
albumin. See section 2 “Tecartus contains sodium, dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO), and residual 
gentamicin”. 
This medicine contains genetically modified human blood cells. 
What Tecartus looks like and contents of the pack 
Tecartus is a clear to opaque, white to red dispersion for infusion, supplied in an infusion bag 
individually packed in a metal cassette. A single infusion bag contains approximately 68 mL of cell 
dispersion. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Kite Pharma EU B.V. 
Tufsteen 1 
2132 NT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Kite Pharma EU B.V. 
Tufsteen 1 
2132 NT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Gilead Sciences Belgium SRL-BV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 24 01 35 50 
България 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Тел.: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Česká republika 
Gilead Sciences s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 910 871 986 
Danmark 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Tlf: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Deutschland 
Gilead Sciences GmbH 
Tel: + 49 (0) 89 899890-0 
Eesti 
Gilead Sciences Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 262 8702 
Ελλάδα 
Gilead Sciences Ελλάς Μ.ΕΠΕ. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 8930 100 
España 
Gilead Sciences, S.L. 
Tel: + 34 91 378 98 30 
France 
Gilead Sciences 
Tél : + 33 (0) 1 46 09 41 00 
Hrvatska 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Ireland 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 214 825 999 
Ísland 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Sími: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Italia 
Gilead Sciences S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 439201 
Lietuva 
Gilead Sciences Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 262 8702 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Gilead Sciences Belgium SRL-BV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 24 01 35 50 
Magyarország 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Malta 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Nederland 
Gilead Sciences Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 (0) 20 718 36 98 
Norge 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Tlf: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Österreich 
Gilead Sciences GesmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 260 830 
Polska 
Gilead Sciences Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 262 8702 
Portugal 
Gilead Sciences, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 7928790 
România 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Slovenija 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Slovenská republika 
Gilead Sciences Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 232 121 210 
Suomi/Finland 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Puh/Tel: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sverige 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Tel: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Κύπρος 
Gilead Sciences Ελλάς Μ.ΕΠΕ. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 8930 100 
Latvija 
Gilead Sciences Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 262 8702 
This leaflet was last revised in 
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’.  
This means that there is more evidence to come about this medicine. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine at least every year and 
this leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------> 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
It is important that you read the entire content of this procedure prior to administering Tecartus.  
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
Tecartus must be transported within the facility in closed, break-proof, leak-proof containers. 
This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Tecartus must 
take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves and eye protection) to avoid potential transmission of 
infectious diseases. 
Work surfaces and materials that have potentially been in contact with Tecartus must be 
decontaminated according to local guidelines on the handling of waste of human-derived materials. 
Preparation prior to administration 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Verify that the patient’s identity (ID) matches the patient identifiers on the Tecartus metal 
cassette. 
The Tecartus infusion bag must not be removed from the metal cassette if the information on the 
patient-specific label does not match the intended patient. 
Once the patient’s ID is confirmed, remove the infusion bag from the metal cassette. 
Check that the patient information on the metal cassette label matches that on the bag label. 
Inspect the infusion bag for any breaches of container integrity before thawing. If the bag is 
compromised, follow the local guidelines for handling of waste of human-derived material (or 
immediately contact Kite). 
Thawing 
• 
Place the infusion bag inside a second bag. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Thaw Tecartus at approximately 37 °C using either a water bath or dry thaw method until there 
is no visible ice in the infusion bag. Gently mix the contents of the bag to disperse clumps of 
cellular material. If visible cell clumps remain, continue to gently mix the contents of the bag. 
Small clumps of cellular material should disperse with gentle manual mixing. Tecartus must not 
be washed, spun down, and/or re-suspended in new media prior to infusion. Thawing should 
take approximately 3 to 5 minutes. 
Once thawed, Tecartus is stable at room temperature (20 °C – 25 °C) for up to 3 hours. 
However, the infusion must begin within 30 minutes of thaw completion. 
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter. 
Administration 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The medicine must be administered in a qualified treatment centre by a physician(s) with 
experience in the treatment of haematological malignancies and trained for administration and 
management of patients treated with Tecartus. 
Ensure that at least 1 dose of tocilizumab per patient and emergency equipment are available 
prior to infusion and during the recovery period. Hospitals and associated centres should have 
access to an additional dose of tocilizumab within 8 hours of each previous dose. In the 
exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage that is listed in the 
European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, ensure that suitable alternative measures to 
treat CRS instead of tocilizumab are available on-site. 
The patient’s identity must be matched with the patient identifiers on the infusion bag.  
Tecartus is for autologous use only.  
Tecartus must be administered as an intravenous infusion using latex-free intravenous tubing 
without a leukocyte depleting filter within 30 minutes by either gravity or a peristaltic pump.  
Gently agitate the bag during infusion to prevent cell clumping. All contents of the infusion bag 
must be infused.  
Sterile sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) (0.154 mmol sodium per mL) solution for injection 
must be used to prime the tubing prior to infusion as well as rinse it afterwards. When the full 
volume of Tecartus has been infused, the infusion bag must be rinsed with 10 to 30 mL sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection by back priming to ensure as many cells as 
possible are infused into the patient.  
Precations to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
Unused medicinal product and any waste material that has been in contact with Tecartus (solid and 
liquid waste) must be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material.  
Accidental exposure  
In case of accidental exposure local guidelines on handling of human-derived material must be 
followed in case of accidental exposure, which may include washing of the contaminated skin, 
removal of contaminated clothes. Work surfaces and material which have potentially been in contact 
with Tecartus must be decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
