EMA/240197/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004143 
Tecentriq (atezolizumab) 
An overview of Tecentriq and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Tecentriq and what is it used for? 
Tecentriq is a medicine for treating  the following cancers:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
urothelial cancer (cancer of the bladder and urinary system);  
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) when the disease is early-stage or metastatic (has spread to 
other parts of the  body);  
small cell lung  cancer (SCLC); 
a type of breast cancer known as triple-negative breast cancer; 
hepatocellular carcinoma, a cancer that  starts in the liver. 
Tecentriq is used either on its own or in combination with  other treatments for cancers that  are 
advanced or have spread to other parts of the  body. In some cases, it  is used after surgery or after 
other cancer treatments.  
The doctor may need to confirm that  the cancer cells produce a certain amount of a protein called PD-
L1, and that  particular genetic mutations known to reduce the  medicine’s effectiveness are not 
present. For more information about the use of Tecentriq, see the  package leaflet. 
Tecentriq contains the active substance atezolizumab. 
How is Tecentriq used? 
Tecentriq is given as an infusion  (drip) into a vein every 2, 3 or 4 weeks. Depending on the type of 
cancer, patients  are treated either for one year or for as long as they benefit from treatment, unless 
they have unmanageable side effects. The doctor may stop treatment if the  patient has certain side 
effects involving the immune system (the body’s defence system), including inflammation of various 
body organs or endocrine (glandular) disorders. For  more information about using Tecentriq, see the 
package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Tecentriq can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment  should be started and supervised by 
a doctor experienced in treating cancer.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Tecentriq work? 
The active substance in Tecentriq, atezolizumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein)  designed 
to attach  to a protein called PD-L1, which is present on many cancer cells.  
PD-L1 switches off immune cells that  would otherwise attack cancer cells. By attaching to PD-L1, 
Tecentriq reduces its effects and so increases the immune system’s ability to attack cancer cells and 
thereby slows down progression of the disease. 
What benefits of Tecentriq have been shown in studies? 
Urothelial cancer 
Tecentriq reduces tumours in patients with  urothelial cancer that  is advanced or has spread. In a study 
of 429 patients,  the cancer shrank or was eliminated after Tecentriq treatment in 23% of patients who 
were not  eligible for platinum chemotherapy and in 16%  of patients  who had previously had platinum 
chemotherapy. 
In another study involving 931  patients with  urothelial cancer, those given Tecentriq lived slightly 
longer (8.6 months) than  patients given chemotherapy (8 months) although the  difference could be 
due to chance. Response was seen even in patients whose cancer cells did not  produce much PD-L1. 
Lung cancer 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
In patients with  non-small cell lung cancer that  is advanced or has spread, Tecentriq is more effective 
than docetaxel (another cancer medicine) at prolonging patients’ lives. In one main study of 850 
patients, those given Tecentriq lived for 14 months on average while those given docetaxel lived for 10 
months. In a second study of 287 patients,  patients on Tecentriq lived for 13 months on average 
compared with  10 months for patients on docetaxel. 
In another main study of 1,202  patients with  advanced non-small cell lung  cancer which has spread 
and who had not received chemotherapy before, patients given Tecentriq together with  paclitaxel, 
carboplatin and bevacizumab (other cancer medicines) lived on average for 8.4 months  without  their 
disease getting  worse while those given paclitaxel, carboplatin and bevacizumab lived on average for 
6.8 months  without  their disease getting  worse. Overall, patients given Tecentriq with  the  other 
medicines lived for 19.8  months on average compared with 14.9  months for patients  given the 
medicines without  Tecentriq. 
Another study investigated the  effect of Tecentriq in 679 previously untreated patients with  non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who did not  have a type of cancer known as EGFR mutant  or ALK-positive 
NSCLC. Patients lived on average for 18.6 months when they were given Tecentriq with  carboplatin 
plus nab-paclitaxel compared with  13.9  months when given the  combination without  Tecentriq. In 
addition, patients  lived for about 7 months without  their  disease getting worse when they received the 
Tecentriq combination compared with 5.5  months without Tecentriq. 
In a further study in  205 patients with  metastatic non-small cell lung cancer who had not  received 
chemotherapy before, patients treated with  Tecentriq lived for 20.2 months on average compared with 
14.7  months for those who received platinum-based chemotherapy and either pemetrexed or 
gemcitabine.  
Tecentriq was shown to  be effective in  patients with  early-stage NSCLC without  EGFR or ALK mutations 
in which  more than 50% of the cancer cells presented PD-L1 on their surface, and who had undergone 
Tecentriq (atezolizumab)  
EMA/240197/2022  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
surgery to completely remove the cancer before receiving platinum-based therapy. After approximately 
32 months,  around 77%  of patients  who received Tecentriq (82 out  of 106)  had no sign of the  cancer 
coming back, compared with  56% (58  out of 103) of patients who received standard cancer 
treatments. At the time of authorisation, no benefit was observed in patients with  cancer cells that 
presented lower levels of PD-L1 on their  surface.  
Small cell lung cancer 
In a study of 403  patients with  the generally more aggressive small cell lung cancer, patients  lived for 
12.3  months on average when Tecentriq was added to carboplatin plus etoposide, compared with  10.3 
months when placebo (a dummy treatment) was added instead. In addition,  patients given the 
Tecentriq combination lived for 5.2 months on average without  their disease getting worse compared 
with  4.3 months for patients who were not given Tecentriq.  
Breast  cancer 
A study of 902  patients with  a type of breast cancer known as triple-negative breast cancer looked at 
the effect of combining Tecentriq with  nab-paclitaxel. Patients  whose cancer produced the PD-L1 
protein up to a certain level lived for an average of 25 months on the Tecentriq plus nab-paclitaxel 
combination compared with  18 months when given placebo plus nab-paclitaxel. Patients in the 
Tecentriq group also lived for longer without  their disease getting worse (7.5 months versus 5.3).   
Hepatocellular  carcinoma 
A study involved 501 patients  with hepatocellular carcinoma that had spread and had not been treated 
previously. Patients treated with  Tecentriq in combination with  bevacizumab lived on average for 6.8 
months without  their  disease getting worse, compared to 4.3 months for patients treated with 
sorafenib. 
What are the risks associated with Tecentriq? 
The most common side effects with  Tecentriq when used on its  own (which may affect more than  1 in 
10 people) are tiredness, reduced appetite, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting,  cough, difficulty breathing, 
diarrhoea, rash, fever, headache, pain in  the back and joints,  weakness, itching  and urinary tract 
infection.  
The most common side effects with  Tecentriq when used with  other cancer medicines (which  may 
affect more than 2 in 10  people) are peripheral neuropathy (nerve damage in the hands and feet), 
nausea, anaemia (low  red blood cell counts),  neutropenia (low white blood cell counts), alopecia (loss 
of hair), thrombocytopenia (low platelet counts),  rash, tiredness, constipation, reduced appetite and 
diarrhoea. 
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Tecentriq authorised in the EU? 
In urothelial cancer, Tecentriq has been shown to reduce tumour size in patients who  have been 
treated with  platinum chemotherapy or who are not eligible for such treatment.  Tecentriq can also 
prolong how long patients with  lung cancer, triple-negative breast cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma 
live.  
Tecentriq (atezolizumab)  
EMA/240197/2022  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
Tecentriq’s side effects when used alone are less troublesome than standard chemotherapy 
treatments. When Tecentriq is used in  combination with other cancer medicines, the side effects are 
more severe but are considered manageable.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that  Tecentriq’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tecentriq? 
The company that  markets Tecentriq is providing an educational programme for patients and 
healthcare professionals to explain that serious immune-related side effects can occur during 
treatment and what  they should do to minimise risks. The company is also carrying out studies to 
provide more data on the effectiveness of Tecentriq in urothelial cancer and on the medicine’s safety. 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Tecentriq have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Tecentriq are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with  Tecentriq are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Tecentriq 
Tecentriq received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU on 21 September 2017. 
Further information on Tecentriq can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/tecentriq.  
This overview was last updated in  05-2022.   
Tecentriq (atezolizumab)  
EMA/240197/2022  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
