14 November 2019 
EMA/689907/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): dimethyl fumarate (multiple sclerosis) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010143/201903 
Period covered by the PSUR: 25 March 2017 to 25 March 2019  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for dimethyl fumarate (multiple 
sclerosis), the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
There was no case explicitly reporting Fanconi syndrome in the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) indication; 
however, it has been reported in literature that that female patients with psoriasis treated long-term 
with fumaric acid esters seem to be at particular risk. The limited long-term experience with Tecfidera 
could contribute to the low evidence regarding a potential association of dimethyl fumarate and 
Fanconi syndrome in the MS indication. Since early diagnosis of Fanconi syndrome and discontinuation 
of the potentially causative drug, e.g. dimethyl fumarate, are important steps to prevent the onset of 
renal impairment and osteomalacia, the PRAC recommends the inclusion of a warning in SmPC section 
4.4 to make physicians aware of the potential risk of Fanconi syndrome including the description of 
corresponding symptoms. The Package leaflet should be updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for dimethyl fumarate (multiple sclerosis) the CHMP is of the 
opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing dimethyl fumarate 
(multiple sclerosis) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/689907/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
