ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tecfidera 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Tecfidera 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Tecfidera 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 120 mg dimethyl fumarate. 
Tecfidera 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 240 mg dimethyl fumarate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Gastro-resistant hard capsule 
Tecfidera 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Green and white gastro-resistant hard capsules, size 0, printed with ‘BG-12 120 mg’ containing 
microtablets. 
Tecfidera 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Green gastro-resistant hard capsules, size 0, printed with ‘BG-12 240 mg’ containing microtablets. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Tecfidera is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients aged 13 years and older with 
relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated under supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of 
multiple sclerosis.  
Posology 
The starting dose is 120 mg twice a day. After 7 days, the dose should be increased to the 
recommended maintenance dose of 240 mg twice a day (see section 4.4). 
If a patient misses a dose, a double dose should not be taken. The patient may take the missed dose 
only if they leave 4 hours between doses. Otherwise the patient should wait until the next scheduled 
dose.  
Temporary dose reduction to 120 mg twice a day may reduce the occurrence of flushing and 
gastrointestinal adverse reactions. Within 1 month, the recommended maintenance dose of 240 mg 
twice a day should be resumed. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tecfidera should be taken with food (see section 5.2). For those patients who may experience flushing 
or gastrointestinal adverse reactions, taking Tecfidera with food may improve tolerability (see 
sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Clinical studies of Tecfidera had limited exposure to patients aged 55 years and above, and did not 
include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently 
than younger patients (see section 5.2). Based on the mode of action of the active substance there are 
no theoretical reasons for any requirement for dose adjustments in the elderly. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Tecfidera has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Based on clinical 
pharmacology studies, no dose adjustments are needed (see section 5.2). Caution should be used when 
treating patients with severe renal or severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
The posology is the same in adults and in paediatric patients aged 13 years and older. 
There are limited data available in children between 10 and 12 years old. Currently available data are 
described in sections 4.8 and 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology can be made.  
The safety and efficacy of Tecfidera in children aged less than 10 years have not been established. No 
data are available. 
Method of administration  
For oral use. 
The capsule should be swallowed whole. The capsule or its contents should not be crushed, divided, 
dissolved, sucked or chewed as the enteric-coating of the microtablets prevents irritant effects on the 
gastrointestinal tract.  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Suspected or confirmed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Blood/laboratory tests 
Renal function 
Changes in renal laboratory tests have been seen in clinical trials in patients treated with dimethyl 
fumarate (see section 4.8). The clinical implications of these changes are unknown. Assessment of 
renal function (e.g. creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and urinalysis) is recommended prior to treatment 
initiation, after 3 and 6 months of treatment, every 6 to 12 months thereafter and as clinically 
indicated.  
Hepatic function 
Drug-induced liver injury, including liver enzyme increase (≥ 3 times upper limit of normal (ULN)) 
and elevation of total bilirubin levels (≥ 2 × ULN) can result from treatment with dimethyl fumarate. 
The time to onset can be days, several weeks or longer. Resolution of the adverse reactions has been 
observed after treatment was discontinued. Assessment of serum aminotransferases (e.g. alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST)) and total bilirubin levels are 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recommended prior to treatment initiation and during treatment as clinically indicated. 
Lymphocytes 
Patients treated with Tecfidera may develop lymphopenia (see section 4.8). Prior to initiating 
treatment with Tecfidera, a current complete blood count, including lymphocytes, must be performed.  
If lymphocyte count is found to be below the normal range, thorough assessment of possible causes 
should be completed prior to initiation of treatment. Dimethyl fumarate has not been studied in 
patients with pre-existing low lymphocyte counts and caution should be exercised when treating these 
patients. Treatment should not be initiated in patients with severe lymphopenia (lymphocyte counts 
< 0.5 × 109/L). 
After starting therapy, complete blood counts, including lymphocytes, must be performed every 
3 months.  
Enhanced vigilance due to an increased risk of PML is recommended in patients with lymphopenia as 
follows:  
• 
Treatment should be discontinued in patients with prolonged severe lymphopenia (lymphocyte 
counts < 0.5 × 109/L) persisting for more than 6 months. 
In patients with sustained moderate reductions of absolute lymphocyte counts ≥ 0.5 × 109/L to 
< 0.8 × 109/L for more than 6 months, the benefit/risk balance of treatment with Tecfidera 
should be re-assessed.  
In patients with lymphocyte counts below lower limit of normal (LLN) as defined by local 
laboratory reference range, regular monitoring of absolute lymphocyte counts is recommended. 
Additional factors that might further augment the individual PML risk should be considered (see 
subsection on PML below). 
• 
• 
Lymphocyte counts should be followed until recovery (see section 5.1). Upon recovery and in the 
absence of alternative treatment options, decisions about whether or not to restart Tecfidera after 
treatment discontinuation should be based on clinical judgement. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
Before initiating treatment with Tecfidera, a baseline MRI should be available (usually within 
3 months) as a reference. The need for further MRI scanning should be considered in accordance with 
national and local recommendations. MRI imaging may be considered as part of increased vigilance in 
patients considered at increased risk of PML. In case of clinical suspicion of PML, MRI should be 
performed immediately for diagnostic purposes. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
PML has been reported in patients treated with Tecfidera (see section 4.8). PML is an opportunistic 
infection caused by John-Cunningham virus (JCV), which may be fatal or result in severe disability.  
PML cases have occurred with dimethyl fumarate and other medicinal products containing fumarates 
in the setting of lymphopenia (lymphocyte counts below LLN). Prolonged moderate to severe 
lymphopenia appears to increase the risk of PML with Tecfidera, however, risk cannot be excluded in 
patients with mild lymphopenia.  
Additional factors that might contribute to an increased risk of PML in the setting of lymphopenia are: 
- 
duration of Tecfidera therapy. Cases of PML have occurred after approximately 1 to 5 years of 
treatment, although the exact relationship with duration of treatment is unknown. 
profound decreases in CD4+ and especially in CD8+ T cell counts, which are important for 
immunological defence (see section 4.8), and 
prior immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy (see below). 
- 
- 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Physicians should evaluate their patients to determine if the symptoms are indicative of neurological 
dysfunction and, if so, whether these symptoms are typical of MS or possibly suggestive of PML.  
At the first sign or symptom suggestive of PML, Tecfidera should be withheld and appropriate 
diagnostic evaluations, including determination of JCV DNA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methodology, need to be performed. The symptoms of 
PML may be similar to an MS relapse. Typical symptoms associated with PML are diverse, progress 
over days to weeks, and include progressive weakness on one side of the body or clumsiness of limbs, 
disturbance of vision, and changes in thinking, memory, and orientation leading to confusion and 
personality changes. Physicians should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML that the 
patient may not notice. Patients should also be advised to inform their partner or caregivers about their 
treatment, since they may notice symptoms that the patient is not aware of. 
PML can only occur in the presence of a JCV infection. It should be considered that the influence of 
lymphopenia on the accuracy of serum anti-JCV antibody testing has not been studied in dimethyl 
fumarate treated patients. It should also be noted that a negative anti-JCV antibody test (in the 
presence of normal lymphocyte counts) does not preclude the possibility of subsequent JCV infection.  
If a patient develops PML, Tecfidera must be permanently discontinued. 
Prior treatment with immunosuppressive or immunomodulating therapies 
No studies have been performed evaluating the efficacy and safety of Tecfidera when switching 
patients from other disease modifying therapies to Tecfidera. The contribution of prior 
immunosuppressive therapy to the development of PML in dimethyl fumarate treated patients is 
possible.  
PML cases have been reported in patients who had previously been treated with natalizumab, for 
which PML is an established risk. Physicians should be aware that cases of PML occurring following 
recent discontinuation of natalizumab may not have lymphopenia. 
In addition, a majority of confirmed PML cases with Tecfidera occurred in patients with prior 
immunomodulatory treatment. 
When switching patients from another disease modifying therapy to Tecfidera, the half-life and mode 
of action of the other therapy should be considered in order to avoid an additive immune effect while 
at the same time, reducing the risk of reactivation of MS. A complete blood count is recommended 
prior to initiating Tecfidera and regularly during treatment (see Blood/laboratory tests above). 
Severe renal or hepatic impairment 
Tecfidera has not been studied in patients with severe renal or severe hepatic impairment and caution 
should, therefore, be used in these patients (see section 4.2). 
Severe active gastrointestinal disease 
Tecfidera has not been studied in patients with severe active gastrointestinal disease and caution 
should, therefore, be used in these patients. 
Flushing 
In clinical trials, 34% of Tecfidera treated patients experienced flushing. In the majority of patients 
who experienced flushing, it was mild or moderate in severity. Data from healthy volunteer studies 
suggest that dimethyl fumarate-associated flushing is likely to be prostaglandin mediated. A short 
course of treatment with 75 mg non-enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid may be beneficial in patients 
affected by intolerable flushing (see section 4.5). In two healthy volunteer studies, the occurrence and 
severity of flushing over the dosing period was reduced. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In clinical trials, 3 patients out of a total of 2,560 patients treated with dimethyl fumarate experienced 
serious flushing symptoms that were probable hypersensitivity or anaphylactoid reactions. These 
adverse reactions were not life-threatening, but led to hospitalisation. Prescribers and patients should 
be alert to this possibility in the event of severe flushing reactions (see sections 4.2, 4.5 and 4.8). 
Anaphylactic reactions 
Cases of anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reaction have been reported following Tecfidera administration in 
the post-marketing setting (see section 4.8). Symptoms may include dyspnoea, hypoxia, hypotension, 
angioedema, rash or urticaria. The mechanism of dimethyl fumarate induced anaphylaxis is unknown. 
Reactions generally occur after the first dose, but may also occur at any time during treatment, and 
may be serious and life-threatening. Patients should be instructed to discontinue Tecfidera and seek 
immediate medical care if they experience signs or symptoms of anaphylaxis. Treatment should not be 
restarted (see section 4.8). 
Infections 
In phase 3 placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of infections (60% vs 58%) and serious infections 
(2% vs 2%) was similar in patients treated with Tecfidera or placebo, respectively. However, due to 
Tecfidera immunomodulatory properties (see section 5.1), if a patient develops a serious infection, 
suspending treatment with Tecfidera should be considered and the benefits and risks should be 
reassessed prior to re-initiation of therapy. Patients receiving Tecfidera should be instructed to report 
symptoms of infections to a physician. Patients with serious infections should not start treatment with 
Tecfidera until the infection(s) is(are) resolved. 
There was no increased incidence of serious infections observed in patients with lymphocyte counts 
< 0.8 × 109/L or < 0.5 × 109/L (see section 4.8). If therapy is continued in the presence of moderate to 
severe prolonged lymphopenia, the risk of an opportunistic infection, including PML, cannot be ruled 
out (see section 4.4 subsection PML).  
Herpes zoster infections 
Cases of herpes zoster have been reported with Tecfidera (see section 4.8). The majority of cases were 
non-serious; however, serious cases, including disseminated herpes zoster, herpes zoster ophthalmicus, 
herpes zoster oticus, herpes zoster infection neurological, herpes zoster meningoencephalitis and 
herpes zoster meningomyelitis have been reported. These adverse reactions may occur at any time 
during the treatment. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of herpes zoster, especially 
when concurrent lymphocytopenia is reported. If herpes zoster occurs, appropriate treatment for 
herpes zoster should be administered. Withholding treatment should be considered in patients with 
serious infections until the infection has resolved (see section 4.8). 
Treatment initiation 
Treatment should be started gradually to reduce the occurrence of flushing and gastrointestinal adverse 
reactions (see section 4.2).  
Fanconi syndrome 
Cases of Fanconi syndrome have been reported with a medicinal product containing dimethyl 
fumarate in combination with other fumaric acid esters. Early diagnosis of Fanconi syndrome and 
discontinuation of dimethyl fumarate treatment are important to prevent the onset of renal impairment 
and osteomalacia, as the syndrome is usually reversible. The most important signs are proteinuria, 
glucosuria (with normal blood sugar levels), hyperaminoaciduria and phosphaturia (possibly 
concurrent with hypophosphatemia). Progression might involve symptoms such as polyuria, 
polydipsia and proximal muscle weakness. In rare cases, hypophosphataemic osteomalacia with non-
localised bone pain, elevated alkaline phosphatase in serum and stress fractures may occur. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Importantly, Fanconi syndrome can occur without elevated creatinine levels or low glomerular 
filtration rate. In case of unclear symptoms, Fanconi syndrome should be considered and appropriate 
examinations should be performed. 
Excipients 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Anti-neoplastic, immunosuppressive or corticosteroid therapies 
Tecfidera has not been studied in combination with anti-neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies 
and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant administration. In multiple sclerosis clinical 
studies, the concomitant treatment of relapses with a short course of intravenous corticosteroids was 
not associated with a clinically relevant increase of infection. 
Vaccines 
Concomitant administration of non-live vaccines according to national vaccination schedules may be 
considered during Tecfidera therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 patients with RRMS, 
patients on Tecfidera 240 mg twice daily for at least 6 months (n=38) or non-pegylated interferon for 
at least 3 months (n=33), mounted a comparable immune response (defined as ≥ 2-fold increase from 
pre- to post-vaccination titre) to tetanus toxoid (recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal C 
polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an 
unconjugated 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T-cell independent antigen) varied in 
both treatment groups. A positive immune response defined as a ≥ 4-fold increase in antibody titre to 
the three vaccines, was achieved by fewer subjects in both treatment groups. Small numerical 
differences in the response to tetanus toxoid and pneumococcal serotype 3 polysaccharide were noted 
in favour of non-pegylated interferon.  
No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated vaccines in patients taking 
Tecfidera. Live vaccines might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not be given to 
patients treated with Tecfidera unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be 
outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating. 
Other fumaric acid derivatives 
During treatment with Tecfidera, simultaneous use of other fumaric acid derivatives (topical or 
systemic) should be avoided. 
In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively metabolised by esterases before it reaches the systemic 
circulation and further metabolism occurs through the tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no involvement of 
the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Potential interaction risks were not identified from in vitro CYP-
inhibition and induction studies, a p-glycoprotein study, or studies of the protein binding of dimethyl 
fumarate and monomethyl fumarate (the primary metabolite of dimethyl fumarate). 
Effects of other substances on dimethyl fumarate 
Commonly used medicinal products in patients with multiple sclerosis, intramuscular interferon 
beta-1a and glatiramer acetate, were clinically tested for potential interactions with dimethyl fumarate 
and did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate.  
Evidence from healthy volunteer studies suggests that Tecfidera-associated flushing is likely to be 
prostaglandin mediated. In two healthy volunteer studies, the administration of 325 mg (or equivalent) 
non-enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid, 30 minutes prior to Tecfidera, dosing over 4 days and over 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
4 weeks, respectively, did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of Tecfidera. Potential risks associated 
with acetylsalicylic acid therapy should be considered prior to co-administration with Tecfidera in 
patients with RRMS. Long term (> 4 weeks) continuous use of acetylsalicylic acid has not been 
studied (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).  
Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diuretics, non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or lithium) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions 
(e.g. proteinuria see section 4.8) in patients taking Tecfidera (see section 4.4 Blood/laboratory tests). 
Consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol did not alter exposure to dimethyl fumarate and was not 
associated with an increase in adverse reactions. Consumption of large amounts of strong alcoholic 
drinks (more than 30% alcohol by volume) should be avoided within an hour of taking Tecfidera, as 
alcohol may lead to increased frequency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions. 
Effects of dimethyl fumarate on other substances 
In vitro CYP induction studies did not demonstrate an interaction between Tecfidera and oral 
contraceptives. In an in vivo study, co-administration of Tecfidera with a combined oral contraceptive 
(norgestimate and ethinyl oestradiol) did not elicit any relevant change in oral contraceptive exposure. 
No interaction studies have been performed with oral contraceptives containing other progestogens, 
however an effect of Tecfidera on their exposure is not expected. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
A moderate amount of data on pregnant women are available (between 300-1,000 pregnancy 
outcomes), based on a pregnancy registry and post-marketing spontaneous reports. In the Tecfidera 
pregnancy registry, 289 prospectively collected pregnancy outcomes were documented in patients with 
MS who were exposed to dimethyl fumarate. The median duration of exposure to dimethyl fumarate 
was 4.6 gestational weeks with limited exposure after the sixth gestational week (44 pregnancy 
outcomes). Exposure to dimethyl fumarate during such early pregnancy indicates no malformative or 
foeto/neonatal toxicity compared to the general population. The risk of longer dimethyl fumarate 
exposure or exposure in later stages of pregnancy is not known. 
Animal studies have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). As a precautionary measure, it is 
preferable to avoid the use of Tecfidera during pregnancy. Tecfidera should be used during pregnancy 
only if clearly needed and if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether dimethyl fumarate or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding 
or to discontinue Tecfidera therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and 
the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of dimethyl fumarate on human fertility. Data from preclinical studies 
do not suggest that dimethyl fumarate would be associated with an increased risk of reduced fertility 
(see section 5.3). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tecfidera has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions are flushing (35%) and gastrointestinal events (i.e. diarrhoea 
(14%), nausea (12%), abdominal pain (10%), abdominal pain upper (10%)). Flushing and 
gastrointestinal events tend to begin early in the course of treatment (primarily during the first month) 
and in patients who experience flushing and gastrointestinal events, these events may continue to 
occur intermittently throughout treatment with Tecfidera. The most commonly reported adverse 
reactions leading to treatment discontinuation are flushing (3%) and gastrointestinal events (4%). 
In phase 2 and 3 placebo-controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies, a total of 2,513 patients have 
received Tecfidera for periods of up to 12 years with an overall exposure equivalent to 11,318 person-
years. A total of 1,169 patients have received at least 5 years of treatment with Tecfidera, and 
426 patients have received at least 10 years of treatment with Tecfidera. The experience in 
uncontrolled clinical trials is consistent with the experience in the placebo-controlled clinical trials. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions arising from clinical studies, post-authorisation safety studies and spontaneous 
reports, are presented in the table below. 
The adverse reactions are presented as MedDRA preferred terms under the MedDRA System Organ 
Class. The incidence of the adverse reactions below is expressed according to the following 
categories: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Very common (≥ 1/10) 
Common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100) 
Rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) 
Very rare (< 1/10,000) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
MedDRA system organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Adverse reaction 
Gastroenteritis 
Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML)  
Herpes zoster 
Lymphopenia 
Leucopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylaxis 
Dyspnoea 
Hypoxia 
Hypotension 
Angioedema 
Burning sensation 
Flushing  
Hot flush 
Rhinorrhoea 
Diarrhoea  
9 
Frequency category 
Common 
Not known  
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Not known 
Very common 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system organ class 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Frequency category 
Adverse reaction 
Very common 
Nausea  
Very common 
Abdominal pain upper  
Very common 
Abdominal pain 
Common 
Vomiting 
Common 
Dyspepsia 
Common 
Gastritis 
Gastrointestinal disorder 
Common 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased  Common 
Common 
Alanine aminotransferase increased 
Not known 
Drug-induced liver injury 
Common 
Pruritus 
Common 
Rash 
Common 
Erythema 
Common 
Alopecia 
Common 
Proteinuria 
Feeling hot 
Ketones measured in urine 
Albumin urine present  
White blood cell count decreased  
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Flushing  
In the placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of flushing (34% versus 4%) and hot flush 
(7% versus 2%) was increased in patients treated with Tecfidera compared to placebo, respectively. 
Flushing is usually described as flushing or hot flush, but can include other events (e.g. warmth, 
redness, itching, and burning sensation). Flushing events tend to begin early in the course of treatment 
(primarily during the first month) and in patients who experience flushing, these events may continue 
to occur intermittently throughout treatment with Tecfidera. In patients with flushing, the majority had 
flushing events that were mild or moderate in severity. Overall, 3% of patients treated with Tecfidera 
discontinued due to flushing. The incidence of serious flushing, which may be characterised by 
generalised erythema, rash and/or pruritus, was seen in less than 1% of patients treated with Tecfidera 
(see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5).  
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions 
The incidence of gastrointestinal events (e.g. diarrhoea [14% versus 10%], nausea [12% versus 9%], 
upper abdominal pain [10% versus 6%], abdominal pain [9% versus 4%], vomiting [8% versus 5%] 
and dyspepsia [5% versus 3%]) was increased in patients treated with Tecfidera compared to placebo, 
respectively. Gastrointestinal adverse reactions tend to begin early in the course of treatment 
(primarily during the first month) and in patients who experience gastrointestinal events, these events 
may continue to occur intermittently throughout treatment with Tecfidera. In the majority of patients 
who experienced gastrointestinal events, it was mild or moderate in severity. Four per cent (4%) of 
patients treated with Tecfidera discontinued due to gastrointestinal adverse reactions. The incidence of 
serious gastrointestinal events, including gastroenteritis and gastritis, was seen in 1% of patients 
treated with Tecfidera (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic function  
Based on data from placebo-controlled studies, the majority of patients with elevations had hepatic 
transaminases that were < 3 times the ULN. The increased incidence of elevations of hepatic 
transaminases in patients treated with Tecfidera relative to placebo was primarily seen during the first 
6 months of treatment. Elevations of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
≥ 3 times ULN, respectively, were seen in 5% and 2% of patients treated with placebo and 6% and 
2% of patients treated with Tecfidera. Discontinuations due to elevated hepatic transaminases were 
< 1% and similar in patients treated with Tecfidera or placebo. Elevations in transaminases ≥ 3 times 
ULN with concomitant elevations in total bilirubin > 2 times ULN, were not observed in placebo-
controlled studies. 
Increase of liver enzymes and cases of drug-induced liver injury (elevations in transaminases ≥ 3 times 
ULN with concomitant elevations in total bilirubin > 2 times ULN), have been reported in post 
marketing experience following Tecfidera administration, which resolved upon treatment 
discontinuation.  
Lymphopenia  
In the placebo-controlled studies, most patients (> 98%) had normal lymphocyte counts prior to 
initiating treatment. Upon treatment with Tecfidera, mean lymphocyte counts decreased over the first 
year with a subsequent plateau. On average, lymphocyte counts decreased by approximately 30% of 
baseline value. Mean and median lymphocyte counts remained within normal limits. Lymphocyte 
counts < 0.5 × 109/L were observed in < 1% of patients treated with placebo and 6% of patients treated 
with Tecfidera. A lymphocyte count < 0.2 × 109/L was observed in 1 patient treated with Tecfidera 
and in no patients treated with placebo. 
In clinical studies (both controlled and uncontrolled), 41% of patients treated with Tecfidera had 
lymphopenia (defined in these studies as < 0.91 × 109/L). Mild lymphopenia (counts ≥ 0.8 × 109/L to 
< 0.91 × 109/L) was observed in 28% of patients; moderate lymphopenia (counts ≥ 0.5 × 109/L to 
< 0.8 × 109/L) persisting for at least six months was observed in 11% of patients; severe lymphopenia 
(counts < 0.5 × 109/L) persisting for at least six months was observed in 2% of patients. In the group 
with severe lymphopenia, the majority of lymphocyte counts remained < 0.5 × 109/L with continued 
therapy. 
In addition, in an uncontrolled, prospective, post-marketing study, at week 48 of treatment with 
Tecfidera (n=185), CD4+ T cells were moderately (counts ≥ 0.2 × 109/L to < 0.4 × 109/L) or severely 
(<0.2 × 109/L) decreased in up to 37% or 6% of patients, respectively, while CD8+ T cells were more 
frequently reduced with up to 59% of patients at counts < 0.2 × 109/L and 25% of patients at counts 
< 0.1 × 109/L. In controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies, patients who discontinued Tecfidera 
therapy with lymphocyte counts below the LLN were monitored for recovery of lymphocyte count to 
the LLN (see section 5.1). 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Cases of infections with John Cunningham virus (JCV) causing PML have been reported with 
Tecfidera (see section 4.4). PML may be fatal or result in severe disability. In one of the clinical trials, 
1 patient taking Tecfidera developed PML in the setting of prolonged severe lymphopenia 
(lymphocyte counts predominantly < 0.5 × 109/L for 3.5 years), with a fatal outcome. In the post-
marketing setting, PML has also occurred in the presence of moderate and mild lymphopenia 
(> 0.5 × 109/L to < LLN, as defined by local laboratory reference range). 
In several PML cases with determination of T cell subsets at the time of diagnosis of PML, 
CD8+ T cell counts were found to be decreased to < 0.1 × 109/L, whereas reductions in CD4+ T cells 
counts were variable (ranging from < 0.05 to 0.5 × 109/L) and correlated more with the overall 
severity of lymphopenia (< 0.5 × 109/L to < LLN). Consequently, the CD4+/CD8+ ratio was increased 
in these patients. 
Prolonged moderate to severe lymphopenia appears to increase the risk of PML with Tecfidera. 
However, PML also occurred in patients with mild lymphopenia. Additionally, the majority of PML 
cases in the post-marketing setting have occurred in patients > 50 years. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Herpes zoster infections 
Herpes zoster infections have been reported with Tecfidera. In the long-term extension study, in which 
1,736 MS patients were treated, approximately 5% experienced one or more events of herpes zoster, of 
which 42% were mild, 55% were moderate, and 3% were severe. The time to onset from first 
Tecfidera dose ranged from approximately 3 months to 10 years. Four patients experienced serious 
events, all of which resolved. Most subjects, including those who experienced a serious herpes zoster 
infection, had lymphocyte counts above the lower limit of normal. In a majority of subjects with 
concurrent lymphocyte counts below the LLN, lymphopenia was rated moderate or severe. In the post-
marketing setting, most cases of herpes zoster infection were non-serious and resolved with treatment. 
Limited data are available on absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) in patients with herpes zoster 
infection in the post-marketing setting. However, when reported, most patients experienced moderate 
(≥ 0.5 × 109/L to < 0.8 × 109/L) or severe (< 0.5 × 109/L to 0.2 × 109/L) lymphopenia (see section 4.4).  
Laboratory abnormalities 
In the placebo-controlled studies, measurement of urinary ketones (1+ or greater) was higher in 
patients treated with Tecfidera (45%) compared to placebo (10%). No untoward clinical consequences 
were observed in clinical trials. 
Levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D decreased in Tecfidera treated patients relative to placebo (median 
percentage decrease from baseline at 2 years of 25% versus 15%, respectively) and levels of 
parathyroid hormone (PTH) increased in Tecfidera treated patients relative to placebo (median 
percentage increase from baseline at 2 years of 29% versus 15%, respectively). Mean values for both 
parameters remained within normal range. 
A transient increase in mean eosinophil counts was seen during the first 2 months of therapy.  
Paediatric population 
In a 96-week open-label, randomised active controlled trial paediatric patients with RRMS (n=7 aged 
10 to less than 13 years and n=71 aged 13 to less than 18 years) were treated with 120 mg twice a day 
for 7 days followed by 240 mg twice a day for the remainder of treatment. The safety profile in 
paediatric patients appeared similar to that previously observed in adult patients. 
The paediatric clinical trial design differed from the adult placebo-controlled clinical trials. Therefore, 
a contribution of clinical trial design to numerical differences in adverse events between the paediatric 
and adult populations, cannot be excluded. Gastrointestinal disorders as well as respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal disorders and the adverse events of headache and dysmenorrhea were more frequently 
reported (≥10%) in the paediatric population than in the adult population. These adverse events were 
reported in the following percentages in paediatric patients: 
• 
Headache was reported in 28% of patients treated with Tecfidera versus 36% in patients treated 
with interferon beta-1a. 
Gastrointestinal disorders were reported in 74% of patients treated with Tecfidera versus 31% in 
patients treated with interferon beta-1a. Among them, abdominal pain and vomiting were the 
most frequently reported with Tecfidera. 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders were reported in 32% of patients treated with 
Tecfidera versus 11% in patients treated with interferon beta-1a. Among them, oropharyngeal 
pain and cough were the most frequently reported with Tecfidera. 
Dysmenorrhea was reported in 17% of patients treated with Tecfidera versus 7% of patients 
treated with interferon beta-1a. 
• 
• 
• 
In a small 24-week open-label uncontrolled study in paediatric patients with RRMS aged 13 to 
17 years (120 mg twice a day for 7 days followed by 240 mg twice a day for the remainder of 
treatment; n=22), followed by a 96-week extension study (240 mg twice per day; n=20), the safety 
profile appeared similar to that observed in adult patients. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Cases of overdose with Tecfidera have been reported. The symptoms described in these cases were 
consistent with the known safety profile of Tecfidera. There are no known therapeutic interventions to 
enhance elimination of Tecfidera nor is there a known antidote. In the event of overdose, it is 
recommended that symptomatic supportive treatment be initiated as clinically indicated. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, other immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AX07 
Mechanism of action 
The mechanism by which dimethyl fumarate exerts therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is not fully 
understood. Preclinical studies indicate that dimethyl fumarate pharmacodynamic responses appear to 
be primarily mediated through activation of the Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) 
transcriptional pathway. Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to up regulate Nrf2-dependent antioxidant 
genes in patients (e.g. NAD(P)H dehydrogenase, quinone 1; [NQO1]).  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Effects on the immune system 
In preclinical and clinical studies, dimethyl fumarate demonstrated anti-inflammatory and 
immunomodulatory properties. Dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate, the primary metabolite 
of dimethyl fumarate, significantly reduced immune cell activation and subsequent release of pro-
inflammatory cytokines in response to inflammatory stimuli in preclinical models. In clinical studies 
with psoriasis patients, dimethyl fumarate affected lymphocyte phenotypes through a down-regulation 
of pro-inflammatory cytokine profiles (TH1, TH17), and biased towards anti-inflammatory production 
(TH2). Dimethyl fumarate demonstrated therapeutic activity in multiple models of inflammatory and 
neuroinflammatory injury. In phase 3 studies in MS patients (DEFINE, CONFIRM and ENDORSE), 
upon treatment with Tecfidera mean lymphocyte counts decreased on average by approximately 30% 
of their baseline value over the first year with a subsequent plateau. In these studies, patients who 
discontinued treatment with lymphocyte counts below the lower limit of normal (LLN, 0.9 × 109/L) 
were monitored for recovery of lymphocyte counts to the LLN. 
Figure 1 shows the proportion of patients estimated to reach the LLN based on the Kaplan-Meier 
method without prolonged severe lymphopenia. The recovery baseline (RBL) was defined as the last 
on-treatment ALC prior to treatment discontinuation. The estimated proportion of patients recovering 
to LLN (ALC ≥ 0.9 × 109/L) at Week 12 and Week 24, who had mild, moderate, or severe 
lymphopenia at RBL are presented in Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3 with 95% pointwise confidence 
intervals. The standard error of the Kaplan-Meier estimator of the survival function is computed using 
Greenwood’s formula. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier method; proportion of patients with recovery to ≥ 910 cells/mm3 
(0.9 × 109/L) LLN from the recovery baseline (RBL) 
Note: 500 cells/mm3, 800 cells/mm3, 910 cells/mm3 correspond to 0.5 × 109/L, 0.8 × 109/L and 
0.9 × 109/L respectively. 
Table 1: Kaplan-Meier method; proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, mild 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Number of patients with mild 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
Proportion reaching 
LLN (95% CI) 
Baseline 
N=86 
Week 12 
N=12 
0.81 
(0.71, 0.89) 
Week 24 
N=4 
0.90 
(0.81, 0.96) 
a Patients with ALC < 0.9 × 109/L and ≥ 0.8 × 109/L at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia. 
Table 2: Kaplan-Meier method; proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, moderate 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Number of patients with moderate 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
Proportion reaching 
LLN (95% CI) 
Baseline 
N=124 
Week 12 
N=33 
0.57 
(0.46, 0.67) 
Week 24 
N=17 
0.70 
(0.60, 0.80) 
a Patients with ALC < 0.8 × 109/L and ≥ 0.5 × 109/L at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia. 
Table 3: Kaplan-Meier method; proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, severe 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Number of patients with severe 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
Proportion reaching 
LLN (95% CI) 
Baseline 
N=18 
Week 12 
N=6 
0.43 
(0.20, 0.75) 
Week 24 
N=4 
0.62 
(0.35, 0.88) 
a Patients with ALC < 0.5 × 109/L at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe lymphopenia. 
14 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Two, 2-year, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies (DEFINE with 1,234 patients and 
CONFIRM with 1,417 patients) of patients with RRMS were performed. Patients with progressive 
forms of MS were not included in these studies. 
Efficacy (see Table 4) and safety were demonstrated in patients with expanded disability status scale 
(EDSS) scores ranging from 0 to 5 inclusive, who had experienced at least 1 relapse during the year 
prior to randomisation, or, in the 6 weeks before randomisation had a brain MRI demonstrating at least 
one gadolinium-enhancing (Gd+) lesion. Study CONFIRM contained a rater-blinded (i.e. study 
physician/investigator assessing the response to study treatment was blinded) reference comparator of 
glatiramer acetate.  
In DEFINE, patients had the following median baseline characteristics: age 39 years, disease duration 
7.0 years, EDSS score 2.0. In addition, 16% of patients had an EDSS score > 3.5, 28% had 
≥ 2 relapses in the prior year and 42% had previously received other approved MS treatments. In the 
MRI cohort 36% of patients entering the study had Gd+ lesions at baseline (mean number of 
Gd+ lesions 1.4).  
In CONFIRM, patients had the following median baseline characteristics: age 37 years, disease 
duration 6.0 years, EDSS score 2.5. In addition, 17% of patients had an EDSS score > 3.5, 32% had 
≥ 2 relapses in the prior year and 30% had previously received other approved MS treatments. In the 
MRI cohort 45% of patients entering the study had Gd+ lesions at baseline (mean number of Gd+ 
lesions 2.4).  
Compared to placebo, patients treated with Tecfidera had a clinically meaningful and statistically 
significant reduction on the primary endpoint in study DEFINE, proportion of patients relapsed at 
2 years; and the primary endpoint in study CONFIRM, annualised relapse rate (ARR) at 2 years.  
Table 4: Clinical and MRI endpoints for studies DEFINE and CONFIRM 
DEFINE  
CONFIRM 
Placebo  Tecfidera 
Placebo  Tecfidera 
Clinical endpointsa 
No. patients 
Annualised relapse rate 
Rate ratio  
(95% CI) 
Proportion relapsed 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
Proportion with 12-week 
confirmed disability 
progression 
Hazard ratio  
(95% CI) 
408 
0.364 
0.461 
0.271 
Proportion with 24 week 
confirmed disability 
progression 
0.169 
Hazard ratio  
(95% CI) 
363 
0.401 
0.410 
0.169 
0.125 
240 mg  
twice a day 
410 
0.172*** 
0.47  
(0.37, 0.61) 
0.270*** 
0.51  
(0.40, 0.66) 
0.164** 
0.62 
(0.44, 0.87) 
0.128# 
0.77  
(0.52, 1.14) 
15 
240 mg 
twice a day 
359 
0.224*** 
0.56 
(0.42, 0.74) 
0.291** 
0.66 
(0.51, 0.86) 
0.128# 
Glatiramer 
acetate 
350 
0.286* 
0.71 
(0.55, 0.93) 
0.321** 
0.71 
(0.55, 0.92) 
0.156# 
0.79  
(0.52, 1.19) 
0.078# 
0.93 
(0.63, 1.37) 
0.108# 
0.62 
(0.37, 1.03) 
0.87 
(0.55, 1.38) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFINE  
CONFIRM 
Placebo  Tecfidera 
Placebo  Tecfidera 
240 mg  
twice a day 
240 mg 
twice a day 
165 
16.5 
(7.0) 
152 
3.2 
(1.0)*** 
144 
19.9 
(11.0) 
147 
5.7 
(2.0)*** 
1.8 
(0) 
5.7 
(2.0) 
0.15 
(0.10, 0.23) 
0.1 
(0)***  
0.10 
(0.05, 0.22) 
2.0 
(1.0)*** 
0.28  
(0.20, 0.39) 
0.29 
(0.21, 0.41) 
0.5 
(0.0)***  
0.26 
(0.15, 0.46) 
3.8 
(1.0)*** 
2.0 
(0.0) 
8.1 
(4.0) 
Glatiramer 
acetate 
161 
9.6 
(3.0)*** 
0.46 
(0.33, 0.63) 
0.7 
(0.0)**  
0.39 
(0.24, 0.65) 
4.5 
(2.0)** 
0.43 
(0.30, 0.61) 
0.59 
(0.42, 0.82) 
MRI endpointsb 
No. patients 
Mean (median) number of 
new or newly enlarging 
T2 lesions over 2 years 
Lesion mean ratio  
(95% CI) 
Mean (median) number of 
Gd lesions at 2 years  
Odds ratio  
(95% CI) 
Mean (median) number of 
new T1 hypointense 
lesions over 2 years 
Lesion mean ratio  
(95% CI) 
aAll analyses of clinical endpoints were intent-to-treat; bMRI analysis used MRI cohort 
*P-value < 0.05; **P-value < 0.01; ***P-value < 0.0001; #not statistically significant 
An open non-controlled 8-year extension study (ENDORSE) enrolled 1,736 eligible RRMS patients 
from the pivotal studies (DEFINE and CONFIRM). The primary objective of the study was to assess 
the long-term safety of Tecfidera in patients with RRMS. Of the 1,736 patients, approximately half 
(909, 52%) were treated for 6 years or longer. 501 patients were continuously treated with Tecfidera 
240 mg twice daily across all 3 studies and 249 patients who were previously treated with placebo in 
studies DEFINE and CONFIRM received treatment 240 mg twice daily in study ENDORSE. Patients 
who received treatment twice daily continuously were treated for up to 12 years. 
During study ENDORSE, more than half of all patients treated with Tecfidera 240 mg twice daily did 
not have a relapse. For patients continuously treated twice daily across all 3 studies, the adjusted ARR 
was 0.187 (95% CI: 0.156, 0.224) in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM and 
0.141 (95% CI: 0.119, 0.167) in study ENDORSE. For patients previously treated with placebo, the 
adjusted ARR decreased from 0.330 (95% CI: 0.266, 0.408) in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM 
to 0.149 (95% CI: 0.116, 0.190) in study ENDORSE.  
In study ENDORSE, the majority of patients (> 75%) did not have confirmed disability progression 
(measured as 6-month sustained disability progression). Pooled results from the three studies 
demonstrated Tecfidera treated patients had consistent and low rates of confirmed disability 
progression with slight increase in mean EDSS scores across ENDORSE. MRI assessments (up to 
year 6, including 752 patients who had previously been included in the MRI cohort of studies DEFINE 
and CONFIRM) showed that the majority of patients (approximately 90%) had no Gd-enhancing 
lesions. Over the 6 years, the annual adjusted mean number of new or newly enlarging T2 and new T1 
lesions remained low. 
Efficacy in patients with high disease activity 
In studies DEFINE and CONFIRM, consistent treatment effect on relapses in a subgroup of patients 
with high disease activity was observed, whilst the effect on time to 3-month sustained disability 
progression was not clearly established. Due to the design of the studies, high disease activity was 
defined as follows: 
- 
Patients with 2 or more relapses in one year, and with one or more Gd-enhancing lesions on 
brain MRI (n=42 in DEFINE; n=51 in CONFIRM) or,  
Patients who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course (at least one year of treatment) 
of beta-interferon, having had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and at 
- 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
least 9 T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial MRI or at least 1 Gd-enhancing lesion, or patients 
having an unchanged or increased relapse rate in the prior year as compared to the previous 
2 years (n=177 in DEFINE; n=141 in CONFIRM). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Tecfidera in paediatric RRMS was evaluated in a randomised, open-label, 
active-controlled (interferon beta-1a) parallel group study in patients with RRMS aged 10 to less than 
18 years of age. One hundred and fifty patients were randomised to dimethyl fumarate (240 mg twice 
daily oral) or interferon beta-1a (30 μg IM once a week) for 96 weeks. The primary endpoint was the 
proportion of patients free of new or newly enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions on brain MRI scans at 
week 96. The main secondary endpoint was the number of new or newly enlarging T2 hyperintense 
lesions on brain MRI scans at week 96. Descriptive statistics are presented as no confirmatory 
hypothesis was pre-planned for the primary endpoint. 
The proportion of patients in the ITT population with no new or newly enlarging T2 MRI lesions at 
week 96 relative to baseline was 12.8% for dimethyl fumarate versus 2.8% in the interferon beta-1a 
group. The mean number of new or newly enlarging T2 lesions at week 96 relative to baseline, 
adjusted for baseline number of T2 lesions and age (ITT population excluding patients without MRI 
measurements) was 12.4 for dimethyl fumarate and 32.6 for interferon beta-1a.  
The probability for clinical relapse was 34% in the dimethyl fumarate group and 48% in the interferon 
beta-1a group by the end of the 96 week open-label study period. 
The safety profile in paediatric patients (aged 13 to less than 18 years of age) receiving Tecfidera was 
qualitatively consistent with that previously observed in adult patients (see section 4.8). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Orally administered dimethyl fumarate undergoes rapid presystemic hydrolysis by esterases and is 
converted to its primary metabolite, monomethyl fumarate, which is also active. Dimethyl fumarate is 
not quantifiable in plasma following oral administration of Tecfidera. Therefore, all pharmacokinetic 
analyses related to dimethyl fumarate were performed with plasma monomethyl fumarate 
concentrations. Pharmacokinetic data were obtained in subjects with multiple sclerosis and healthy 
volunteers. 
Absorption 
The Tmax of monomethyl fumarate is 2 to 2.5 hours. As Tecfidera gastro-resistant hard capsules 
contain microtablets, which are protected by an enteric coating, absorption does not commence until 
they leave the stomach (generally less than 1 hour). Following 240 mg twice a day administered with 
food, the median peak (Cmax) was 1.72 mg/l and overall area under the curve (AUC) exposure was 
8.02 h.mg/l in subjects with multiple sclerosis. Overall, Cmax and AUC increased approximately dose- 
proportionally in the dose range studied (120 mg to 360 mg). In subjects with multiple sclerosis, two 
240 mg doses were administered 4 hours apart as part of a three times a day dosing regimen. This 
resulted in a minimal accumulation of exposure yielding an increase in the median Cmax of 12% 
compared to the twice daily dosing (1.72 mg/l for twice daily compared to 1.93 mg/l for three times 
daily) with no safety implications. 
Food does not have a clinically significant effect on exposure of dimethyl fumarate. However, 
Tecfidera should be taken with food due to improved tolerability with respect to flushing or 
gastrointestinal adverse events (see section 4.2). 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution following oral administration of 240 mg dimethyl fumarate varies 
between 60 L and 90 L. Human plasma protein binding of monomethyl fumarate generally ranges 
between 27% and 40%. 
Biotransformation 
In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively metabolised with less than 0.1% of the dose excreted as 
unchanged dimethyl fumarate in urine. It is initially metabolised by esterases, which are ubiquitous in 
the gastrointestinal tract, blood and tissues, before it reaches the systemic circulation. Further 
metabolism occurs through the tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no involvement of the cytochrome P450 
(CYP) system. A single 240 mg 14C-dimethyl fumarate dose study identified glucose as the 
predominant metabolite in human plasma. Other circulating metabolites included fumaric acid, citric 
acid and monomethyl fumarate. The downstream metabolism of fumaric acid occurs through the 
tricarboxylic acid cycle, with exhalation of CO2 serving as the primary route of elimination. 
Elimination 
Exhalation of CO2 is the primary route of dimethyl fumarate elimination accounting for 60% of the 
dose. Renal and faecal elimination are secondary routes of elimination, accounting for 15.5% and 
0.9% of the dose respectively. 
The terminal half-life of monomethyl fumarate is short (approximately 1 hour) and no circulating 
monomethyl fumarate is present at 24 hours in the majority of individuals. Accumulation of dimethyl 
fumarate or monomethyl fumarate does not occur with multiple doses of dimethyl fumarate at the 
therapeutic regimen. 
Linearity 
Dimethyl fumarate exposure increases in an approximately dose proportional manner with single and 
multiple doses in the 120 mg to 360 mg dose range studied. 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
Based on the results of analysis of variance (ANOVA), body weight is the main covariate of exposure 
(by Cmax and AUC) in RRMS subjects, but did not affect safety and efficacy measures evaluated in the 
clinical studies.  
Gender and age did not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of dimethyl 
fumarate. The pharmacokinetics in patients aged 65 and over has not been studied. 
Renal impairment 
Since the renal pathway is a secondary route of elimination for dimethyl fumarate accounting for less 
than 16% of the dose administered, evaluation of pharmacokinetics in individuals with renal 
impairment was not conducted. 
Hepatic impairment 
As dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate are metabolised by esterases, without the 
involvement of the CYP450 system, evaluation of pharmacokinetics in individuals with hepatic 
impairment was not conducted. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetic profile of 240 mg dimethyl fumarate twice a day was evaluated in a small, open-
label, uncontrolled study in patients with RRMS aged 13 to 17 years (n=21). The pharmacokinetics of 
Tecfidera in these adolescent patients was consistent with that previously observed in adult patients 
(Cmax: 2.00±1.29 mg/l; AUC0-12hr: 3.62±1.16 h.mg/l, which corresponds to an overall daily AUC of 
7.24 h.mg/l). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The adverse reactions described in the Toxicology and Reproduction toxicity sections below were not 
observed in clinical studies, but were seen in animals at exposure levels similar to clinical exposure 
levels. 
Genotoxicity  
Dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate were negative in a battery of in vitro assays (Ames, 
chromosomal aberration in mammalian cells). Dimethyl fumarate was negative in the in vivo 
micronucleus assay in rats. 
Carcinogenesis 
Carcinogenicity studies of dimethyl fumarate were conducted for up to 2 years in mice and rats. 
Dimethyl fumarate was administered orally at doses of 25, 75, 200 and 400 mg/kg/day in mice, and at 
doses of 25, 50, 100, and 150 mg/kg/day in rats. 
In mice, the incidence of renal tubular carcinoma was increased at 75 mg/kg/day, at equivalent 
exposure (AUC) to the recommended human dose. In rats, the incidence of renal tubular carcinoma 
and testicular Leydig cell adenoma was increased at 100 mg/kg/day, approximately 2 times higher 
exposure than the recommended human dose. The relevance of these findings to human risk is 
unknown. 
The incidence of squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma in the nonglandular stomach (forestomach) 
was increased at equivalent exposure to the recommended human dose in mice and below exposure to 
the recommended human dose in rats (based on AUC). The forestomach in rodents does not have a 
human counterpart.  
Toxicology 
Nonclinical studies in rodent, rabbits, and monkeys were conducted with a dimethyl fumarate 
suspension (dimethyl fumarate in 0.8% hydroxypropyl methylcellulose) administered by oral gavage. 
The chronic toxicity study in dogs was conducted with oral administration of the dimethyl fumarate 
capsule.  
Kidney changes were observed after repeated oral administration of dimethyl fumarate in mice, rats, 
dogs, and monkeys. Renal tubular epithelial regeneration, suggestive of injury, was observed in all 
species. Renal tubular hyperplasia was observed in rats with lifetime dosing (2-year study). In dogs 
that received daily oral doses of dimethyl fumarate for 11 months, the margin calculated for cortical 
atrophy was observed at 3 times the recommended dose based on AUC. In monkeys that received 
daily oral doses of dimethyl fumarate for 12 months, single cell necrosis was observed at 2 times the 
recommended dose based on AUC. Interstitial fibrosis and cortical atrophy were observed at 6 times 
the recommended dose based on AUC. The relevance of these findings to humans is not known.  
In the testes, degeneration of the seminiferous epithelium was seen in rats and dogs. The findings were 
observed at approximately the recommended dose in rats and 3 times the recommended dose in dogs 
(AUC basis). The relevance of these findings to humans is not known. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings in the forestomach of mice and rats consisted of squamous epithelial hyperplasia and 
hyperkeratosis; inflammation; and squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma in studies of 3 months or 
longer in duration. The forestomach of mice and rats does not have a human counterpart. 
Toxicity to reproduction and development 
Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate to male rats at 75, 250, and 375 mg/kg/day prior to and 
during mating had no effects on male fertility up to the highest dose tested (at least 2 times the 
recommended dose on an AUC basis). Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate to female rats at 
25, 100, and 250 mg/kg/day prior to and during mating, and continuing to Day 7 of gestation, induced 
reduction in the number of oestrous stages per 14 days and increased the number of animals with 
prolonged dioestrus at the highest dose tested (11 times the recommended dose on an AUC basis). 
However, these changes did not affect fertility or the number of viable foetuses produced. 
Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to cross the placental membrane into foetal blood in rats and 
rabbits, with ratios of foetal to maternal plasma concentrations of 0.48 to 0.64 and 0.1 respectively. No 
malformations were observed at any dose of dimethyl fumarate in rats or rabbits. Administration of 
dimethyl fumarate at oral doses of 25, 100, and 250 mg/kg/day to pregnant rats during the period of 
organogenesis resulted in maternal adverse effects at 4 times the recommended dose on an AUC basis, 
and low foetal weight and delayed ossification (metatarsals and hindlimb phalanges) at 11 times the 
recommended dose on an AUC basis. The lower foetal weight and delayed ossification were 
considered secondary to maternal toxicity (reduced body weight and food consumption).  
Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate at 25, 75, and 150 mg/kg/day to pregnant rabbits during 
organogenesis had no effect on embryo-foetal development and resulted in reduced maternal body 
weight at 7 times the recommended dose and increased abortion at 16 times the recommended dose, 
on an AUC basis. 
Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate at 25, 100, and 250 mg/kg/day to rats during pregnancy and 
lactation resulted in lower body weights in the F1 offspring, and delays in sexual maturation in F1 
males at 11 times the recommended dose on an AUC basis. There were no effects on fertility in the F1 
offspring. The lower offspring body weight was considered secondary to maternal toxicity. 
Toxicity in juvenile animals 
Two toxicity studies in juvenile rats with daily oral administration of dimethyl fumarate from postnatal 
day (PND) 28 through PND 90 to 93 (equivalent to approximately 3 years and older in humans) 
revealed similar target organ toxicities in the kidney and forestomach as observed in adult animals. In 
the first study, dimethyl fumarate did not affect development, neurobehavior or male and female 
fertility up to the highest dose of 140 mg/kg/day (approximately 4.6 times the recommended human 
dose based on limited AUC data in paediatric patients). Likewise, no effects on male reproductive and 
accessory organs were observed up to the highest dimethyl fumarate dose of 375 mg/kg/day in the 
second study in male juvenile rats (about 15-times the putative AUC at the recommended paediatric 
dose). However, decreased bone mineral content and density in the femur and lumbar vertebrae were 
evident in male juvenile rats. Bone densitometry changes were also observed in juvenile rats following 
oral diroximel fumarate administration, another fumaric ester that is metabolised to the same active 
metabolite monomethyl fumarate in vivo. The NOAEL for the densitometry changes in juvenile rats is 
approximately 1.5 times the presumptive AUC at the recommended paediatric dose. A relation of the 
bone effects to lower body weight is possible, but the involvement of a direct effect cannot be 
excluded. The bone findings are of limited relevance for adult patients. The relevance for paediatric 
patients is not known. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule contents (enteric-coated microtablets) 
Microcrystalline cellulose  
Croscarmellose sodium  
Talc 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous  
Magnesium stearate 
Triethyl citrate 
Methacrylic acid – methyl methacrylate copolymer (1:1) 
Methacrylic acid – ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1) dispersion 30% 
Simeticone 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Polysorbate 80 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Brilliant Blue FCF (E133) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Capsule print (black ink) 
Shellac 
Potassium hydroxide 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
4 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30ºC.  
Keep the blisters in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
14 gastro-resistant hard capsules in PVC/PE/PVDC-PVC aluminium blister packs. 
240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
56 or 168 gastro-resistant hard capsules in PVC/PE/PVDC-PVC aluminium blister packs. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
21 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/837/001 
EU/1/13/837/002  
EU/1/13/837/003  
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 30 January 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 15 September 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
DK-3400 Hillerod 
Denmark 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tecfidera 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules  
dimethyl fumarate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 120 mg dimethyl fumarate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30ºC. 
Keep the blisters in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/837/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Tecfidera 120 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
HEAT SEALED BLISTER CARD 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tecfidera 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules  
dimethyl fumarate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Morning 
Evening 
Mon. 
Tue. 
Wed. 
Thu. 
Fri. 
Sat. 
Sun. 
Sun as a symbol  
Moon as a symbol 
14 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Oral use 
Each capsule contains 120 mg dimethyl fumarate. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not store above 30ºC. 
Keep the blisters in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER FOIL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tecfidera 120 mg 
dimethyl fumarate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tecfidera 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules  
dimethyl fumarate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 240 mg dimethyl fumarate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
56 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
168 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30ºC. 
Keep the blisters in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/837/002 
EU/1/13/837/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Tecfidera 240 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
HEAT SEALED BLISTER CARD 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tecfidera 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules  
dimethyl fumarate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Morning 
Evening 
Mon. 
Tue. 
Wed. 
Thu. 
Fri. 
Sat. 
Sun. 
Sun as a symbol  
Moon as a symbol 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER FOIL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tecfidera 240 mg 
dimethyl fumarate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Tecfidera 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Tecfidera 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
dimethyl fumarate 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Tecfidera is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Tecfidera  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Tecfidera 
Possible side effects  
How to store Tecfidera  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Tecfidera is and what it is used for 
What Tecfidera is 
Tecfidera is a medicine that contains the active substance dimethyl fumarate. 
What Tecfidera is used for 
Tecfidera is used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) in patients aged 13 years 
and older.  
MS is a long-term condition that affects the central nervous system (CNS), including the brain and the 
spinal cord. Relapsing-remitting MS is characterised by repeated attacks (relapses) of nervous system 
symptoms. Symptoms vary from patient to patient, but typically include walking difficulties, feeling 
off balance and visual difficulties (e.g. blurred or double vision). These symptoms may disappear 
completely when the relapse is over, but some problems may remain. 
How Tecfidera works 
Tecfidera seems to work by stopping the body’s defence system from damaging your brain and spinal 
cord. This may also help to delay future worsening of your MS.  
2.  What you need to know before you take Tecfidera 
Do not take Tecfidera 
- 
if you are allergic to dimethyl fumarate or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed 
in section 6). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
if you are suspected to suffer from a rare brain infection called progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) or if PML has been confirmed. 
Warnings and precautions 
Tecfidera may affect your white blood cell counts, your kidneys and liver. Before you start 
Tecfidera, your doctor will do a blood test to count the number of your white blood cells and will 
check that your kidneys and liver are working properly. Your doctor will test these periodically during 
treatment. If your number of white blood cells decreases during treatment, your doctor may consider 
additional tests or discontinue your treatment. 
Talk to your doctor before taking Tecfidera if you have: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
severe kidney disease 
severe liver disease 
a disease of the stomach or bowel 
a serious infection (such as pneumonia) 
Herpes zoster (shingles) may occur with Tecfidera treatment. In some cases, serious complications 
have occurred. You should inform your doctor immediately if you suspect you have any symptoms 
of shingles. 
If you believe your MS is getting worse (e.g. weakness or visual changes) or if you notice any new 
symptoms, talk to your doctor straight away because these may be the symptoms of a rare brain 
infection called PML. PML is a serious condition that may lead to severe disability or death. 
A rare but serious kidney disorder called Fanconi syndrome has been reported with a medicine 
containing dimethyl fumarate, in combination with other fumaric acid esters, used to treat psoriasis (a 
skin disease). If you notice you are passing more urine, are thirstier and drinking more than normal, 
your muscles seem weaker, you break a bone, or just have aches and pains, talk to your doctor as soon 
as possible so that this can be investigated further. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children below 10 years of age because no data are available in this age 
group. 
Other medicines and Tecfidera 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, in particular:  
- 
- 
medicines that contain fumaric acid esters (fumarates) used to treat psoriasis; 
medicines that affect the body’s immune system including chemotherapy, 
immunosuppressants, or other medicines used to treat MS; 
medicines that affect the kidneys including some antibiotics (used to treat infections), “water 
tablets” (diuretics), certain types of painkillers (such as ibuprofen and other similar anti-
inflammatories and medicines purchased without a doctor’s prescription) and medicines that 
contain lithium;  
taking Tecfidera with certain types of vaccines (live vaccines) may cause you to get an infection 
and should, therefore, be avoided. Your doctor will advise whether other types of vaccines (non-
live vaccines) should be given.  
- 
- 
Tecfidera with alcohol 
Consumption of more than a small amount (more than 50 ml) of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 
30% alcohol by volume, e.g. spirits) should be avoided within an hour of taking Tecfidera, as alcohol 
can interact with this medicine. This could cause inflammation of the stomach (gastritis), especially in 
people already prone to gastritis. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
There is limited information about the effects of this medicine on the unborn child if used during 
pregnancy. Do not use Tecfidera if you are pregnant unless you have discussed this with your doctor 
and this medicine is clearly necessary for you. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether the active substance of Tecfidera passes into breast milk. Your doctor will 
advise whether you should stop breast-feeding, or stop using Tecfidera. This involves balancing the 
benefit of breast-feeding for your child, and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Driving and using machines 
Tecfidera is not expected to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
Tecfidera contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium free’. 
3. 
How to take Tecfidera 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
Starting dose: 120 mg twice a day. 
Take this starting dose for the first 7 days, then take the regular dose.  
Regular dose: 240 mg twice a day. 
Tecfidera is for oral use. 
Swallow each capsule whole, with some water. Do not divide, crush, dissolve, suck or chew the 
capsule as this may increase some side effects. 
Take Tecfidera with food – it may help to reduce some of the very common side effects (listed in 
section 4). 
If you take more Tecfidera than you should 
If you have taken too many capsules, talk to your doctor straight away. You may experience side 
effects similar to those described below in section 4. 
If you forget to take Tecfidera 
If you forget or miss a dose, do not take a double dose.  
You may take the missed dose if you leave at least 4 hours between the doses. Otherwise wait until 
your next planned dose.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Tecfidera may lower lymphocyte counts (a type of white blood cell). Having a low white blood cell 
count can increase your risk of infection, including the risk of a rare brain infection called progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML may lead to severe disability or death. PML has 
occurred after 1 to 5 years of treatment and so your physician should continue to monitor your white 
blood cells throughout your treatment, and you should remain observant of any potential symptoms of 
PML as described below. The risk of PML may be higher if you have previously taken a medicine 
impairing the functionality of your body’s immune system. 
The symptoms of PML may be similar to an MS relapse. Symptoms may include new or worsening 
weakness on one side of the body; clumsiness; changes in vision, thinking, or memory; or confusion or 
personality changes, or speech and communication difficulties lasting for more than several days. 
Therefore, if you believe your MS is getting worse or if you notice any new symptoms while you are 
on Tecfidera treatment, it is very important that you speak to your doctor as soon as possible. Also 
speak with your partner or caregivers and inform them about your treatment. Symptoms might arise 
that you might not become aware of by yourself. 
→  Call your doctor straight away if you experience any of these symptoms  
Severe allergic reactions 
The frequency of severe allergic reactions cannot be estimated from the available data (not known).  
Reddening of the face or body (flushing) is a very common side effect. However, should flushing be 
accompanied by a red rash or hives and you get any of these symptoms: 
- 
- 
- 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth or tongue (angioedema) 
wheezing, difficulty breathing or shortness of breath (dyspnoea, hypoxia) 
dizziness or loss of consciousness (hypotension) 
then this may represent a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). 
→ 
Stop taking Tecfidera and call a doctor straight away 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
reddening of the face or body feeling warm, hot, burning or itchy (flushing) 
loose stools (diarrhoea) 
feeling sick (nausea)  
stomach pain or stomach cramps 
→ 
Taking your medicine with food can help to reduce the side effects above 
Substances called ketones, which are naturally produced in the body, very commonly show up in urine 
tests while taking Tecfidera. 
Talk to your doctor about how to manage these side effects. Your doctor may reduce your dose. Do 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not reduce your dose unless your doctor tells you to. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
inflammation of the lining of the intestines (gastroenteritis) 
being sick (vomiting) 
indigestion (dyspepsia) 
inflammation of the lining of the stomach (gastritis) 
gastrointestinal disorder 
burning sensation 
hot flush, feeling hot 
itchy skin (pruritus) 
rash 
pink or red blotches on the skin (erythema) 
hair loss (alopecia) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Side effects which may show up in your blood or urine tests 
- 
low levels of white blood cells (lymphopenia, leucopenia) in the blood. Reduced white blood 
cells could mean your body is less able to fight an infection. If you have a serious infection 
(such as pneumonia), talk to your doctor immediately 
proteins (albumin) in urine 
increase in levels of liver enzymes (ALT, AST) in the blood 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
allergic reactions (hypersensitivity) 
- 
reduction in blood platelets 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
liver inflammation and increase in levels of liver enzymes (ALT or AST in combination with 
bilirubin) 
herpes zoster (shingles) with symptoms such as blisters, burning, itching or pain of the skin, 
typically on one side of the upper body or the face, and other symptoms, like fever and 
weakness in the early stages of infection, followed by numbness, itching or red patches with 
severe pain 
runny nose (rhinorrhoea) 
Children (13 years of age and above) and adolescents 
The side effects listed above also apply to children and adolescents.  
Some side effects were reported more frequently in children and adolescents than in adults, e.g, 
headache, stomach pain or stomach cramps, being sick (vomiting), throat pain, cough, and painful 
menstrual periods. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tecfidera 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister and the carton after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30ºC. 
Keep the blisters in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
dispose of medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Tecfidera contains  
The active substance is dimethyl fumarate.  
Tecfidera 120 mg: Each capsule contains 120 mg of dimethyl fumarate. 
Tecfidera 240 mg: Each capsule contains 240 mg of dimethyl fumarate. 
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, talc, silica colloidal 
anhydrous, magnesium stearate, triethyl citrate, methacrylic acid – methyl methacrylate copolymer 
(1:1), methacrylic acid – ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1) dispersion 30%, simeticone, sodium 
laurilsulfate, polysorbate 80, gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), brilliant blue FCF (E133), yellow iron 
oxide (E172), shellac, potassium hydroxide and black iron oxide (E172). 
What Tecfidera looks like and contents of the pack 
Tecfidera 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules are green and white and printed with ‘BG-12 120 mg’ 
and are available in packs containing 14 capsules. 
Tecfidera 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules are green and printed with ‘BG-12 240 mg’ and are 
available in packs containing 56 or 168 capsules.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
DK-3400 Hillerød 
Denmark  
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Biogen Belgium NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 2191218 
Lietuva 
Biogen Lithuania UAB 
Tel: +370 5 259 6176 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
ТП ЕВОФАРМА  
Teл: +359 2 962 12 00  
Česká republika 
Biogen (Czech Republic) s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 255 706 200 
Danmark 
Biogen (Denmark) A/S 
Tlf: +45 77 41 57 57 
Deutschland 
Biogen GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0) 89 99 6170 
Eesti 
Biogen Estonia OÜ 
Tel: +372 618 9551 
Ελλάδα 
Genesis Pharma SA  
Tηλ: +30 210 8771500  
España 
Biogen Spain, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 310 7110 
France 
Biogen France SAS 
Tél: +33 (0)1 41 37 95 95 
Hrvatska 
Biogen Pharma d.o.o  
Tel: +385 (0) 1 775 73 22 
Ireland 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +353 (0)1 463 7799 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Biogen Italia s.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 5849901 
Κύπρος 
Genesis Pharma Cyprus Ltd  
Tηλ: +3572 2 765740  
Latvija 
Biogen Latvia SIA 
Tel: +371 68 688 158 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Biogen Belgium NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 2191218 
Magyarország 
Biogen Hungary Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 899 9883 
Malta 
Pharma. MT Ltd.  
Tel: +356 21337008  
Nederland 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 542 2000 
Norge 
Biogen Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 23 40 01 00 
Österreich 
Biogen Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 484 46 13 
Polska 
Biogen Poland Sp. z o.o.  
Tel: +48 22 351 51 00 
Portugal 
Biogen Portugal Sociedade Farmacêutica, 
Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 318 8450 
România 
Johnson & Johnson Romania S.R.L.  
Tel: +40 21 207 18 00 
Slovenija 
Biogen Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 511 02 90 
Slovenská republika 
Biogen Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 323 340 08  
Suomi/Finland 
Biogen Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 207 401 200 
Sverige 
Biogen Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 8 594 113 60 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 50 1000 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
43 
 
 
