EMA/44982/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005248 
Tecovirimat SIGA (tecovirimat) 
An overview of Tecovirimat SIGA and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Tecovirimat SIGA and what is it used for? 
Tecovirimat SIGA is a medicine to treat smallpox, monkeypox and cowpox, three infections caused by 
viruses belonging to the same family (orthopoxviruses). It is also used to treat complications that can 
happen following vaccination against smallpox. Tecovirimat SIGA is used in adults and children 
weighing at least 13 kg.  
It contains the active substance tecovirimat. 
How is Tecovirimat SIGA used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Tecovirimat SIGA is available as capsules to be taken by mouth, and the dose depends on bodyweight. 
Tecovirimat treatment should be initiated as soon as possible after diagnosis. 
For more information about using Tecovirimat SIGA, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Tecovirimat SIGA work? 
Tecovirimat SIGA works by interfering with a protein called VP37 that is found on the surface of 
orthopoxviruses, including smallpox, monkeypox and cowpox. By interacting with this protein, the 
medicine prevents the viruses from reproducing normally, slowing down the spread of infection. 
What benefits of Tecovirimat SIGA have been shown in studies? 
Because smallpox, monkeypox and cowpox are either eradicated (smallpox) or occur sporadically in 
the EU, studies to assess the effectiveness of Tecovirimat SIGA in infected people could not be carried 
out. 
The effectiveness of Tecovirimat SIGA was therefore evaluated based on studies in animals infected 
with lethal doses of orthopoxviruses, on studies on the medicine’s effects in the human body, and on 
the way the medicine is absorbed, modified and removed from the body in humans and animals 
(pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics studies). 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Un on   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Studies in animals who had received lethal doses of either monkeypox or rabbitpox viruses showed 
that treatment with Tecovirimat SIGA for 14 days significantly increased survival rates: when 
treatment started either 4 or 5 days after infection, between 80 and 100% of the animals that were 
treated with Tecovirimat SIGA survived. No animals in the placebo groups survived. The survival rate 
was 50% when treatment started 6 days after the infection.    
The dose that is needed in humans to ensure that Tecovirimat SIGA will work as expected was 
determined based on comparative pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics studies carried out in 
animals and in humans. 
What are the risks associated with Tecovirimat SIGA? 
The most common side effects with Tecovirimat SIGA are headache (which may affect more than 1 in 
10 people) and nausea (feeling sick) (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people). 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Tecovirimat SIGA authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that Tecovirimat SIGA is effective at reducing mortality 
caused by smallpox, monkeypox and cowpox, based on animal studies. While the safety of the 
medicine was assessed in non-infected people, the side effects of Tecovirimat SIGA are expected to be 
similar in infected people and are considered acceptable. The European Medicines Agency therefore 
decided that Tecovirimat SIGA’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
There are no other treatments authorised for the monkeypox and cowpox infections, which although 
rare can be fatal. In addition, while smallpox has been eradicated, this is an extremely serious 
infection, for which no treatment exists should an outbreak occur.  
Tecovirimat SIGA has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not 
been possible to obtain complete information about Tecovirimat SIGA due to the rarity of the diseases. 
Every year, the Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this overview will 
be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Tecovirimat SIGA? 
Since Tecovirimat SIGA has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that 
markets Tecovirimat SIGA will provide data on the effectiveness and safety of the medicine in patients 
given the medicine should an outbreak of smallpox occur. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tecovirimat SIGA? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tecovirimat SIGA have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Tecovirimat SIGA are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Tecovirimat SIGA are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to 
protect patients. 
Tecovirimat SIGA (tecovirimat)  
EMA/44982/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Tecovirimat SIGA 
Tecovirimat SIGA received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 06 January 2022. 
Further information on Tecovirimat SIGA can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Tecovirimat-SIGA. 
This overview was last updated in 01-2022. 
Tecovirimat SIGA (tecovirimat)  
EMA/44982/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
