EU Risk Management Plan for Tecovirimat SIGA (tecovirimat monohydrate) 
RMP version to be assessed as part of this application: 
RMP Version number:  1.7 
Data lock point for this RMP:  14 September 2023 
Date of final sign off:  29 September 2023 
Rationale for submitting an updated RMP: Merging of the RMP versions submitted with the 1st annual 
re-assessment (EMEA/H/C/005248/S/0004) and the type II variation (EMEA/H/C/005248/II/0006). 
Summary  of  significant  changes  in  this  RMP:  RMP  Parts  IV  and  Part  VI  II.C  have  been  updated  with 
respect to post-authorisation efficacy studies.  
Other RMP versions under evaluation:  
Version number: Version 1.4 
Submitted on: 19 September 2023 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/005248/II/0006 
Details of the currently approved RMP: 
Version number: Version 1.1 
Approved with procedure: EMEA/H/C/005248/IB/0001 
Date of approval (opinion date): 20 July 2022 
QPPV name:  Jack O’Reilly 
QPPV signature: 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Table of contents ......................................................................................... 2 
Part I:  Product(s) Overview ....................................................................... 4 
Part II:  Module SI - Epidemiology of the indication and target 
population(s) .............................................................................................. 6 
Part II:  Module SII - Non-clinical part of the safety specification ............. 14 
Part II:  Module SIII - Clinical trial exposure ............................................ 20 
Part II:  Module SIV - Populations not studied in clinical trials ................. 24 
SIV.1  Exclusion criteria in pivotal clinical studies within the development programme ..... 25 
SIV.2  Limitations to detect adverse reactions in clinical trial development programmes ... 32 
SIV.3  Limitations in respect to populations typically under-represented in clinical trial 
development programmes ......................................................................................... 33 
Part II:  Module SV - Post-authorisation experience ................................. 34 
SV.1 Post-authorisation exposure ............................................................................... 34 
Part II:  Module SVI - Additional EU requirements for the safety 
specification .............................................................................................. 35 
Part II:  Module SVII - Identified and potential risks ................................ 36 
Identification of safety concerns in the initial RMP submission ............................ 36 
SVII.1 
SVII.2  New safety concerns and reclassification with a submission of an updated RMP .... 37 
SVII.3  Details of important identified risks, important potential risks, and missing 
information. ............................................................................................................. 37 
Part II:  Module SVIII - Summary of the safety concerns .......................... 39 
Part III:  Pharmacovigilance Plan (including post-authorisation safety 
studies) ..................................................................................................... 40 
III.1  Routine pharmacovigilance activities .................................................................. 40 
III.2  Additional pharmacovigilance activities ............................................................... 40 
III.3  Summary Table of additional Pharmacovigilance activities .................................... 43 
Part IV:  Plans for post-authorisation efficacy studies............................... 46 
Part V:  Risk minimisation measures (including evaluation of the 
effectiveness of risk minimisation activities) ............................................ 48 
V.1. Routine Risk Minimisation Measures...................................................................... 48 
V.2. Additional Risk Minimisation Measures .................................................................. 48 
V.3  Summary of risk minimisation measures .............................................................. 49 
Part VI:  Summary of the risk management plan ....................................... 51 
II.A List of important risks and missing information ....................................................... 52 
II.B Summary of important risks ................................................................................. 52 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan .................................................................... 53 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation .................................. 53 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan .......................................... 54 
Part VII:  Annexes ..................................................................................... 55 
Annex 1 – EudraVigilance Interface ............................................................................. 56 
Annex 2 – Tabulated summary of planned, ongoing, and completed pharmacovigilance study 
programme .............................................................................................................. 57 
Annex 3 - Protocols for proposed, on-going and completed studies in the pharmacovigilance 
plan ........................................................................................................................ 60 
Annex 4 - Specific adverse drug reaction follow-up forms .............................................. 61 
Annex 5 - Protocols for proposed and on-going studies in RMP part IV ............................. 62 
Annex 6 - Details of proposed additional risk minimisation activities (if applicable) ............ 63 
Annex 7 - Other supporting data (including referenced material) .................................... 64 
Annex 8 – Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time ......................... 66 
 
 
Part I:  Product(s) Overview 
Table Part I.1 – Product Overview 
Active 
substance(s)  
Tecovirimat monohydrate 
(INN or common name) 
Pharmacotherapeutic 
Antiviral 
for 
systemic 
use, 
other 
antivirals 
group(s) (ATC Code) 
(J05AX24) 
Marketing 
Authorisation 
Diamond Pharma Services B.V. 
Applicant 
Medicinal products to which 
1 
this RMP refers 
Invented  name(s)  in  the 
Tecovirimat SIGA 
European  Economic  Area 
(EEA) 
Marketing 
authorisation 
Centralised 
procedure 
Brief  description  of  the 
Chemical class:  Single chemical, synthetic 
product 
Summary of mode of action:  Tecovirimat targets and inhibits 
the activity of the orthopoxvirus VP37 protein (encoded by a highly 
conserved  gene  in  all  members  of  the  orthopoxvirus  genus)  and 
blocks its interaction with cellular Rab9 GTPase and TIP47, which 
prevents  the  formation  of  egress  competent  enveloped  virions 
necessary for cell to cell and long-range dissemination of virus. 
Important information about its composition:  Tecovirimat is 
a  tetracyclic  acyl  hydrazide  compound  developed  by  SIGA 
Technologies, Inc.  It is a white to off-white powder and is classified 
as  BCS  Class  2  due  to  its  high  permeability  and  low  solubility  in 
solutions of gastric pH range.  Tecovirimat has a molecular formula 
.H2O  and  a  molecular  weight  of  394.33  g/mol.  
name 
N-[(3aR,4R,4aR,5aS,6S,6aS)-
of  C19H15F3N2O3
The chemical 
is: 
3,3a,4,4a,5,5a,6,6a-octahydro-1,3-dioxo-4,6 
ethenocycloprop[f]isoindol-2(1H)-yl]-
4(trifluoromethyl)benzamide monohydrate. 
Hyperlink  to  the  Product 
Section 1.3.1 Product Information  
Information 
Indication(s) in the EEA 
Current:  Tecovirimat is indicated for the treatment of the following 
viral infections in adults and children with body weight at least 13 
kg: 
•  Smallpox 
•  Monkeypox 
•  Cowpox 
 
Tecovirimat  is  also  indicated  to  treat  complications  due  to 
replication of vaccinia virus following vaccination against smallpox 
in adults and children with body weight at least 13 kg. 
Proposed: Not Applicable  
Dosage in the EEA 
Current:  
Adults and children of at least 13 kg  
Recommended dose by body weight  
Body Weight  Dosage 
13 kg to less 
than 25 kg 
200 mg every 12 
hours for 14 days 
Number of Capsules 
One Tecovirimat 200 mg 
capsule  
25 kg to less 
than 40 kg 
400 mg every 12 
hours for 14 days 
Two Tecovirimat 200 mg 
capsules  
40 kg and above 600 mg every 12 
hours for 14 days 
Three Tecovirimat 200 
mg capsules  
Proposed: Not Applicable  
Pharmaceutical form(s) and 
Current:  Hard  capsules.  Each  capsule  contains  tecovirimat 
strengths 
monohydrate equivalent to 200 mg tecovirimat. 
Proposed:  Not applicable  
Is/will 
the  product  be 
Yes 
subject 
to 
additional 
monitoring in the EU? 
 
 
 
 
 
Part II:  Safety specification 
Part II:  Module SI - Epidemiology of the indication and target 
population(s) 
Indication 
Tecovirimat is  indicated  for  the  treatment of  the  following  viral infections  in  adults  and  children  with 
body weight at least 13 kg: 
•  Smallpox 
•  Monkeypox 
•  Cowpox 
Tecovirimat  is  also  indicated  to  treat  complications  due  to  replication  of  vaccinia  virus  following 
vaccination against smallpox in adults and children with body weight at least 13 kg. 
Incidence/Prevalence: 
Smallpox:  The last naturally occurring case of smallpox reported in the world was in Somalia in 1977.  
The last case in the United States was in 1949 and in Europe in 1972 in Yugoslavia. In 1980, the World 
Health  Organisation  declared  that  smallpox  had  been  eradicated.  Currently,  there  is  no  evidence  of 
naturally occurring smallpox transmission anywhere in the world, i.e., the prevalence rate of smallpox 
is zero (CDC Emergency Preparedness and Response/Smallpox, 2017; NIAID Topics/Smallpox, 2014; 
Hussain et al, 2018). 
Monkeypox:  Monkeypox is a rare disease that occurs mostly in central and western Africa. The  first 
outbreak  ever  reported  elsewhere  in  the  world  occurred  in  the  United  States  in  2003.  There  were 
37 confirmed, and 10 probable cases (Reynolds et al, 2006). In September 2018, the United Kingdom 
notified  two  (2)  separate  monkeypox  cases  with  recent  travel  history  to  Nigeria  (ECDC  Stockholm, 
2018). These are the first cases of monkeypox in humans reported in the European Union (EU).  A third 
case of monkeypox was detected in the UK in a healthcare worker who cared for one of the two first 
cases (ECDC Stockholm, 2018; https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/monkeypox/). In December 2019, the 
United Kingdom notified one (1) additional imported case of monkeypox with travel history to Nigeria 
(ECDC,  December  2019).  Based  on  the  estimated  population  of  the  European  Union  (EU28)  at  511 
million (Eurostat, 2018) the current prevalence rate of monkeypox in humans is 7.8 x 10-9 (based on 
4/511 million, i.e., approximately zero) per 10,000 persons in the Community. 
Cowpox: Cowpox is a rare disease worldwide, with fewer than 200 human cases reported in total.  From 
1969 to 1993, 54 cases were documented in Europe (Baxby et al., 1994). From then until present day, 
over  50  cases have  been reported in  Europe,  with occurrences in the  following  countries  (number  of 
cases): France (12); Denmark (2); Finland (2); Netherlands (1); Germany (33); Sweden (1); Austria 
(2);  Norway  (1);  United  Kingdom  (3),  and  Russia  (1)  (Cowpox  Epidemiology  in  Europe  (Post-1993), 
2009).  The  most  recent  outbreak  in  2009,  revealed  18  cases  of  human  cowpox  in  Germany,  and  12 
cases in Northern and Central France, all possibly related to a pet rodent source from the Czech Republic 
(ECDC  Risk  Assessment,  2009).  Despite  these  recent  outbreaks  in  Europe (112 cases),  the  current 
prevalence  rate of  cowpox  is  less  than the  statutory  threshold  in  the  EU  (Levin,  2009;  Promed-mail, 
2009). 
Based  on  the  information  cited  above,  112  cowpox  virus  cases  have  occurred  in  Europe  since  1969, 
which, is estimated and assessed on the basis of data from the European Union (EU28).  This represents 
a population of approximately 511 million for the EU (Eurostat, 2018). 
Thus,  the  estimated  prevalence  rate  of  cowpox  infection  in  humans  is  2.2  x  10-7  (based  on 
112/511 million, i.e., approximately zero) per 10,000 persons in the Community. 
Vaccinia:    Vaccinia  virus  is  the  aetiological  agent  of  bovine  vaccinia  disease  that  causes  occasional 
human  outbreaks.  However,  it  is  more  commonly  known  for  its  use  as  a  smallpox  vaccine.  
Historically, the vaccine has been effective in preventing smallpox infection in 95% of those vaccinated. 
Routine vaccination of the American public against smallpox with the vaccinia virus-based vaccine was 
discontinued in 1972 after the disease was eradicated in the US (Smallpox vaccine basics, CDC 2017). 
In  Europe,  the  vaccine  is  only  used  in  a  very  small  number  of  laboratory  workers  at  high  risk  for 
orthopoxvirus exposure. 
Based on the information cited above, 116 orthopoxvirus cases have occurred in Europe since 1969 (not 
including  vaccinia  cases).  Based  on  the  estimated  population  of  the  European  Union  (EU28)  at  511 
million (Eurostat, 2018) the current prevalence rate of orthopoxvirus diseases in humans is 2.3 x 10-7 
(based on 116/511 million, i.e., approximately zero) per 10,000 persons in the Community. 
Demographics of the population in the proposed indication – age, gender, racial and/or ethnic 
origin and risk factors for the disease: 
Age 
-  Smallpox:    The  age  distribution  of  smallpox  mirrors  that  of  the  general  population,  although 
residual  immunity  from  previous  vaccination  could  potentially  decrease  disease  in  the  older 
population.    Historically  young  or  old  individuals  are  more  susceptible  to  severe  smallpox 
(Hussain et al, 2018). 
-  Monkeypox:  In the African epidemics, 90% of the patients were children younger than 15 years. 
Among the confirmed cases in the 2003 US outbreak (n = 35), 11 patients were younger than 
18  years  and  24  were  older.  Although  the  highest  age-specific  incidences  and  the  greatest 
number  of  cases  occur  among  persons  younger  than  15  years,  a  trend  toward  increasing 
incidence  among  persons  aged  15-30  years  has  been  seen  in  recent  years.  It  has  been 
hypothesised that cessation of smallpox vaccination may be a factor in the increasing incidence 
in this age group, but this theory fails to account for why the disease has not re-emerged in 
countries where the disease was seen previously, such as West Africa (Graham et al, 2018). 
-  Cowpox:    Human  cowpox  is  a  disease  of  young  people,  with  half  of  all  cases  occurring  in 
individuals younger than 18 years. Young people may be at greater risk because of a propensity 
for close contact with animals, such as cats, or because absence of vaccination for smallpox, 
which may confer some protection against cowpox (Levin et al, 2018). 
-  Vaccinia:  Recipients of vaccinia include military personnel and laboratory workers, and as such 
would be adults of military/ working age. 
Gender 
The incidence of poxvirus infections is equal in males and females. Although a study from Australia 
showed  a  small  bias  for  vaccinia  complications  in  women,  other  studies  have  not  confirmed  this 
finding, and the bias may be related to the small numbers of patients studied (Patel et al, 2018). 
Race 
Poxvirus infections have no racial predilection. No known ethnic predilections exist for complications 
related to vaccinia virus. 
The main existing treatment options: 
Although  no  drug  has  been  authorised  for  use  in  the  treatment  of  orthopoxvirus  disease  (smallpox, 
monkeypox,  cowpox  and  vaccinia)  in  the  EU,  methods  for  treatment  are  available  but  do  not  offer 
satisfactory  resolution  of  the  disease  condition.  These  methods  include  supportive  and  symptomatic 
treatment,  passive  immunisation  in  treating  certain  adverse  effects  associated  with  vaccination,  and 
possible  disease  treatment  with  a  limited  number  of  antiorthopoxviral  medications.  Neither  passive 
immunisation  nor  antiviral  methods  are  approved  for  use  for  the  orthopoxvirus  disease  treatment 
indication in the EU. 
Supportive and symptomatic treatment 
Treatment strategies to target clinical manifestations of orthopoxvirus disease or toxaemia are available. 
These  strategies  include  supportive therapy  such  as  intravenous  fluids,  medications  for  fever  or  pain 
and antibiotics for secondary bacterial infection. Treatment strategies for toxaemia are also possible. 
Toxaemia is largely due to an uncontrolled or inappropriate immune response to infection and manifests 
as a type of ‘septic shock’ that can lead to multiple organ failure and death (Levi et al, 2004). Thus, 
modulation of the systemic immune response to infection by the use of activated protein C or inhibitors 
of the tissue factor pathway (Geisbert et al, 2003) could help prevent organ damage caused by vascular 
leakage and fibrin deposition. 
Supportive  therapy,  while  critical  for  overcoming  milder  forms  of  orthopoxvirus  disease  and 
complications  such  as  secondary  bacterial  infections,  does  not  target  the  infection  directly.  
Treatment strategies for toxaemia are also supportive and have not yet been fully tested in a non-human 
primate (NHP) model for smallpox. 
Passive immunisation  
Passive immunisation has been used to treat adverse effects associated with vaccination (CDC MMWR, 
2007) or exposure to vaccinia virus in recombinant vaccines for other viral diseases such as rabies (CDC 
MMWR, 2009). Vaccinia immune globulin (VIG) is currently the only product that is approved in the US 
for treatment of complications from smallpox vaccination with vaccinia virus and might have therapeutic 
efficacy  in  systemic  orthopoxvirus  infections  caused  by  smallpox  or  monkeypox  viruses  (Xiao  et  al, 
2010). 
Passive immunisation is not approved for use, and while it may be beneficial in treating adverse effects 
associated with vaccination, it has no proven benefit in smallpox treatment, and its efficacy in treatment 
of monkeypox infections is unknown. 
Antiorthopoxviral medications 
Concerns  over  the  possible  use  of  variola  or  other  zoonotic  orthopoxviruses  as  biological  weapons 
prompted renewed interest in determining whether any existing licensed medications had anti-pox viral 
activity (LeDuc et al, 2002). In 1999, an Institute of Medicine panel recommended the development of 
new antiviral drugs against smallpox, especially medications that could be taken by mouth (Fenner et 
al, 1988; Institute of Medicine, 1999). The panel noted the need for a number of drugs with different 
mechanisms of action that could protect against possible emergence of a drug-resistant virus, initiating 
efforts  to  develop  and  test  various  antiviral  drugs  for  treatment  of  orthopoxvirus  diseases  and 
vaccination complications (LeDuc et al, 2002; Baker et al, 2003; Bray and Roy, 2004). 
Screening  of  licensed  antiviral  medications  identified  3  drugs  with  activity  against  variola  and  other 
orthopoxviruses.  None  of  these  drugs  described  below,  has  been  approved  for  treatment  of 
orthopoxvirus  diseases.  While  the  antiviral  compounds  have  been  shown  to  inhibit  orthopoxvirus 
replication  in  vitro,  they  are  not  approved  for  use,  often  lack  potency  and/or  are  associated  with 
significant adverse effects due to their relative non-specific mechanisms of virus inhibition. 
a)  Ribavirin (Rebetol®, Ribavirin Teva Pharma B.V, Ribavirin Teva, Ribavirin Mylan) is approved, in 
combination with interferon, for treatment of hepatitis C virus infection, and is available in an 
oral formulation.  Ribavirin is less active against poxviruses than cidofovir (Baker et al, 2003). 
Studies  in  animal  models  of  lethal  pox  viral  infection,  have  shown  ribavirin  to  be  minimally 
protective (Smee and Sidwell, 2003). 
b)  Adefovir dipivoxil (Hepsera®) is approved for treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection.  Adefovir 
dipivoxil is less active in vitro against variola virus than cidofovir; it’s in vivo efficacy has not 
been evaluated (Baker et al, 2003). 
c)  Imatinib mesylate (Glivec®, Imatinib Accord, Imatinib Teva, Imatinib Actavis) is approved for 
treatment  of  chronic  myelogenous  leukaemia  and  has  been  shown  to  be  partially  protective 
against  a  low-dose  vaccinia  virus  challenge  in  mice  (Reeves  et  al,  2005).  Imatinib  mesylate 
causes side effects, including fluid retention, nausea and vomiting, muscle cramps, fatigue and 
headache in the majority of treated patients. Treatment was shown to be partially protective 
against a low-dose vaccinia virus challenge in mice, but there are no reports of activity in other 
models (Reeves et al, 2005). 
The first two agents are nucleoside analogues that block viral DNA replication or transcription, and at 
toxic levels, interfere with the same cellular processes, while the third directly inhibits cellular protein 
kinases (Reeves et al, 2005). 
Cidofovir  (Vistide)  is  another  nucleoside  analogue  which  was  approved  for  treatment  of 
cytomegalovirus (CMV)-retinitis in individuals with AIDS (De Clercq, 2002), and shows activity against 
smallpox  virus  (Lalezari  et  al,  1997;  Quenelle  et  al,  2003).  It  was  only  available  as  an  intravenous 
formulation.  However, the marketing authorisation in the EU was withdrawn in 2014 after being in short 
supply since 2013 due to manufacturing problems. 
Cidofovir’s use for the treatment of orthopoxvirus diseases was limited due to the route of administration 
(intravenous)  and  associated  adverse  effects  (nephrotoxicity)  (Lalezari  et  al,  1997).    Furthermore, 
resistant  virus  variants  are  common  (Smee  et  al,  2002).  The  development  of  the  orally  available 
derivative  Brincidofovir  (CMX001)  overcame  the  obstacles  of  renal  toxicity  and  drug  administration. 
Brincidofovir is not yet approved by the FDA (Melamed et al, 2018) or the EMA. 
Natural history of the indicated condition in the untreated population, including mortality and 
morbidity: 
Smallpox:  Smallpox  is  caused  by  the  variola  virus,  a  member  of  the  genus Orthopoxvirus.  The  two 
predominant variants of variola, major and minor, differ greatly in their mortality rates (30% vs 1%, 
respectively). Variola major was the predominant endemic strain throughout the world, and by the end 
of the 18th century, it was responsible for approximately 400,000 deaths a year in Europe.  In patients 
who recovered from the disease, blindness was common, and disfiguring scars were nearly universal. 
During the first half of the 20th century, all outbreaks of smallpox in Asia and most in Africa were due 
to variola major. Variola minor was endemic in some countries in Europe, North America, South America, 
and many parts of Africa. 
Variola major smallpox has four subtypes, as follows: 
•  Ordinary smallpox:  The most common form, which accounts for 90% or more of smallpox cases 
•  Modified smallpox:  A mild form that develops in previously vaccinated persons 
• 
Flat smallpox (malignant smallpox):  A severe variety of smallpox in which lesions do not project 
above the skin surface 
•  Haemorrhagic  smallpox  (fulminant  smallpox):    A  rare,  very  severe,  highly  fatal  variety  of 
smallpox in which haemorrhages develop in the skin and mucous membranes. 
Variola minor is less common and much less virulent; it was previously found mainly in South Africa, 
South America, Europe, and Australia. 
Other types of smallpox include the following: 
•  Variola sine eruptione (variola sine exanthemata):  Another less common form of smallpox. 
•  Pulmonary  form  of  smallpox:    Characterised  by  severe  symptoms,  cyanosis,  and  bilateral 
infiltrates; has been described in individuals with little or no smallpox immunity; the mortality 
rate of this type is undetermined. 
•  Pharyngeal  form  of  smallpox:    Develops  in  immunised  individuals;  this  form  presents  with  a 
spotty enanthem over the soft palate, uvula, and pharynx. 
• 
Influenza-like form of smallpox:  Rarely results in a rash. 
The pharyngeal and influenza-like forms are relatively mild, usually affect individuals who have been 
previously immunised, and do not cause mortality (Hussain et al, 2018). 
Smallpox infections present with acute onset of fever (>38.3°C), malaise, head and body aches, and 
sometimes  vomiting.  This phase  is  followed  by  a  rash  characterised by  firm,  deep-seated  vesicles  or 
pustules in the same stage of development. Clinically, the most common rash illness likely to be confused 
with smallpox is varicella (chickenpox). 
A person with smallpox goes through several stages as the disease progresses. Each stage has its own 
signs and symptoms. 
−  The incubation period can last anywhere from 7 to 19 days (although the average length is 10 to 
14 days). 
−  The  initial  symptoms  include  high  fever,  head  and  body  aches  and  sometimes  vomiting.  
This stage lasts anywhere from 2 to 4 days. 
−  The early rush stage starts as small red spots on the tongue and in the mouth.  These spots 
change into sores that break open and spread large amounts of the virus into the mouth and 
throat.  The person continues to have a fever. Once the sores in the mouth start breaking down, 
a rash appears on the skin, starting on the face and spreading to the arms and legs, and then 
to the hands and feet. Usually, it spreads to all parts of the body within 24 hours.  As this rash 
appears, the fever begins to decline, and the person may start to feel better.  This stage lasts 
about 4 days. By the fourth day, the skin sores fill with a thick, opaque fluid and often have a 
dent in the centre. Once the skin sores fill with fluid, the fever may rise again and remain high 
until scabs form over the bumps. 
−  The ‘pustular rash and scabs’ stage lasts about 10 days. The sores become pustules (sharply 
raised, usually round and firm to the touch, like peas under the skin). After about 5 days, the 
pustules  begin  to  form  a  crust  and  then scab.  By  the  end  of  the  second  week  after  the  rash 
appears, most of the sores have scabbed over. 
−  Scabs  fall  off,  leaving  marks  on  the  skin.  This  stage  lasts  approximately  6  days.  
Three weeks after the rash appears, most scabs will have fallen off.  
− 
Four weeks after the rash appears, all scabs should have fallen off. Once all scabs have fallen 
off, the person is no longer contagious. 
Morbidity is commonly associated with smallpox. Most patients (65-80%) recovering from infection have 
cutaneous scarring, which is made worse if secondary bacterial infections develop during the course of 
smallpox. Other complications of smallpox included dehydration and orchitis. Encephalitis occurs in 1 in 
500  cases.  Dermatologic  complications  of  smallpox  include  formation  of  furuncles  and/or  abscesses 
secondary to bacterial infection, sepsis and pockmarks. Ophthalmologic complications are developed in 
10-20%  of  smallpox  patients  and  include  blepharitis,  conjunctivitis,  corneal  ulceration,  keratitis  and 
blindness  (1%  of  cases).  Orthopaedic  complications  include  arthritis  (2%  of  cases),  osteomyelitis 
variolosa  (affecting  2-5%  of  children)  and  symmetrical  elbow  joint  involvement.  Respiratory 
complications include pulmonary oedema, pneumonitis and bronchopneumonia (Hussain et al, 2018). 
Overwhelming toxaemia has been the usual cause of death in smallpox. Variola major infection carries 
an overall fatality rate of approximately 30% (range, 15-50%) in an unvaccinated population and 3% 
in  a  vaccinated  population.  However,  flat  smallpox  carries  a  45.4%  mortality  rate  in  patients  with 
discrete lesions who have been immunised. Unimmunised patients with confluent disease have a 99.3% 
mortality rate. Patients with haemorrhagic smallpox have a mortality rate of more than 96%, regardless 
of immunisation status. 
Variola minor infection is a less common type of smallpox and a much less severe disease, with a death 
rate of 1% or less. 
Congenital smallpox infection results in a stillbirth rate of 35%; 50% of neonates die within their first 
few days of life (Hussain et al, 2018). 
Monkeypox: Monkeypox in humans is clinically similar to smallpox but overall is less infectious and less 
deadly.    The  symptoms of  monkeypox  are  milder  than  the  symptoms  of  smallpox.  The  most  reliable 
clinical sign differentiating monkeypox from smallpox is enlarged lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy) in 
monkeypox. Lymphadenopathy is not present in smallpox (Graham et al, 2018). 
The stages and associated symptoms of monkeypox are as follows: 
−  The incubation period averages 12 days, ranging from 4-20 days. 
− 
− 
− 
In the prodrome or pre-eruptive stage (lasts 1-10 days), fever is commonly the first symptom 
(usually  38.5-40.5°C).    The  febrile  illness  is  often  accompanied  by  chills,  drenching  sweats, 
severe headache, backache, myalgia, malaise, anorexia, prostration, pharyngitis, shortness of 
breath, and cough (with or without sputum). 
Lymphadenopathy appears within 2-3 days after the fever. 
In the exanthem (eruptive) stage, most persons develop a rash within 1-10 days after the onset 
of fever.  The rash often starts on the face and then spreads to the rest of the body.  Lesions 
progress through the following stages before falling off: macules, papules, vesicles, pustules, 
and scabs.  The rash persists for 2-4 weeks until all lesions have shed their crusts.  Encephalitis 
with immunoglobulin M found in the cerebrospinal fluid has been reported. 
The illness in the US was generally self-limited, with resolution in 2 to 4 weeks depending on the severity 
of  the  illness.  However,  a  small  subset  of  patients,  most  commonly  paediatric  patients,  had  a  more 
severe course, with several patients requiring ICU care. No fatalities were reported in the US and UK 
outbreaks. African cases have mortality rates of 1-10%, with the highest rates occurring in children and 
individuals without smallpox vaccination. In general, the prognosis is related to the amount of exposure 
to the virus, host immune response, comorbidities, vaccination status, and severity of complications. 
Complications reported from African outbreaks include pitted scars, deforming scars, secondary bacterial 
infection, bronchopneumonia, respiratory distress, keratitis, corneal ulceration, blindness, septicaemia, 
and encephalitis. Most patients died of secondary infections (Graham et al, 2018). 
Cowpox and vaccinia:  Human infections with vaccinia, wild vaccinia like viruses, cowpox, and cowpox 
like viruses are most often self-limited, characterised by localised pustular (and in cowpox, occasionally 
ulcerative) lesions. Fever and other constitutional symptoms may occur briefly after lesions first appear. 
Lesions can be painful and can persist for  weeks.  People who are immunocompromised or who have 
exfoliative skin conditions (such as eczema or atopic dermatitis) are at higher risk of severe illness or 
death (CDC, 2017). 
The prognosis for patients with cowpox is very good. Human cowpox is usually a self-limiting disease.  
The host immune response is usually sufficient to control the viral infection, and the only sequelae are 
scars  at  the  site  of  the  pox  lesions.  Cowpox  patients  with  underlying  skin  disorders,  such  as  atopic 
dermatitis, are at risk for generalised skin infection, resembling eczema herpeticum. Of the eight cases 
of severe generalised skin infection that have been reported, four of the patients had atopic dermatitis, 
one had Darier disease, and one had hay fever. There have only been two reported deaths associated 
with cowpox. One was in a patient with atopic dermatitis and allergic bronchial asthma who was receiving 
systemic  steroids  at  the  time  of  infection.  The  patient  died  from  pulmonary  embolism  however  the 
autopsy failed to demonstrate the role cowpox may have played in the patient's death. The second was 
in  an  adolescent  renal  transplant  patient  in  Finland  who  developed  neck  swelling,  tonsillitis,  and 
widespread  vesico-pustular  lesions  after  exposure  to  an  infected  cat.  He was  found  to  have  cowpox 
particles in his skin and blood by electron microscopy and polymerase chain reaction. He did not respond 
to antiviral therapy and died of multiorgan failure (Levin et al, 2018). 
Most adverse reactions to vaccinia administration involve the skin and central nervous system (CNS) 
(Patel et al 2018). Typically following vaccinia vaccination, a vesicular or pustular skin lesion at the site 
of inoculation is indicative of a successful vaccination or “take”. Forty (40) to 47% of vaccinees report 
mild  pain  at  the  site  of  inoculation  and  2–3%  reports  the  pain  as  severe.  Fever  is  common  after 
vaccination with 5 to 9% reported above 37.7°C and 3% above 38.8°C. In addition, many vaccinees 
report a variety of mild systemic complications, including headache, myalgia, chills, nausea and fatigue. 
Moderate and severe complications of vaccinia vaccination include eczema vaccinatum (in subjects with 
a  history  of  eczema  or  atopic  dermatitis),  generalised  vaccinia,  vaccinia  necrosum 
(in immunocompromised subjects), myopericarditis and post-vaccinal encephalitis (mostly in children).  
Moderate  to  severe  complications  occur  in  approximately  1  to  250  individuals  per  million  primary 
vaccines (Jacobs et al, 2009). 
Although complications from vaccinia vaccination are uncommon (75 per million vaccinations, death rate 
of 1 per million), the outcome depends on the immune status of the individual.  In immunocompromised 
persons, mortality rates from dermal complications (e.g., eczema vaccinatum, vaccinia necrosum) were 
reported  as  10%  and  nearly  100%,  respectively.  When  patients  are  treated  with  vaccinia  immune 
globulin  (VIG),  the  mortality  rate  is  drastically  reduced.  After  1969,  when  VIG  became  available, 
investigations suggested mortality rates of 1% for eczema vaccinatum and 33% for vaccinia necrosum. 
Individuals  who previously  received the  vaccine  and  are  undergoing  revaccination  may  be  at  greater 
risk  for  complications  than  those  who  are  immunologically  naive  to  it.    Post-vaccinal  encephalitis, 
characterised as an encephalopathy in children, carries a mortality rate of 25%. This is usually observed 
in  children  aged  6  months  to  3  years;  therefore,  vaccination  should  be  postponed  until  children  are 
older. Adults can experience a milder form of encephalitis characterised by perivascular demyelination. 
CNS  complications  are  essentially  unheard  of  after  revaccination,  are  not  related  to  underlying 
immunosuppression, and do not respond to VIG therapy (Patel et al 2018). 
Important co-morbidities: 
As  described  under  ‘Demographics’  above,  these  orthopoxviral  conditions  may  infect  anyone  in  the 
general population although the very young and elderly are more susceptible to smallpox, whereas for 
example,  monkeypox  and  cowpox  and  vaccinia  are  often  diseases  of  the  young.  There  are  thus  no 
specific important co-morbidities although logically, the immunocompromised may be more susceptible 
to  infection.  Tecovirimat  efficacy  may  be  reduced  in  immunocompromised  patients  based  on  studies 
demonstrating reduced efficacy in immunocompromised animal models. However, it is not anticipated 
that there would be an increased risk of adverse events in these patients. 
 
 
Part  II:    Module  SII  -  Non-clinical  part  of  the  safety 
specification 
The  toxicology  programme  for  tecovirimat  includes  a  comprehensive  set  of  non-clinical  toxicology 
studies designed to support the oral administration of tecovirimat in the clinic. The effects of tecovirimat 
have  been  evaluated  in  a  non-clinical  development  programme  including  GLP-compliant  repeat-dose 
toxicity studies (of up to 13 weeks in duration) in mice and monkeys, a standard battery of in vitro and 
in vivo genetic toxicity tests, and a battery of reproductive and developmental toxicity tests including a 
fertility and early embryonic development study in mice, EFD studies in mice and rabbits, and a prenatal 
and post-natal development study in mice. 
The majority of in vivo studies were conducted using the oral (gavage) route of administration, which is 
the intended clinical route. The drug substance used in the pivotal toxicology studies matches the purity 
and impurity profile of that used in the human clinical studies. 
The use of mice and monkeys as the main repeat-dose toxicity species is supported by pharmacology 
data as well as PK data. Specifically, early non-clinical evaluations of the PK and safety of tecovirimat 
in mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, and monkeys have indicated that the rat, rabbit, and dog are not suitable 
for  tecovirimat  toxicology  evaluation.  This  is  because  of  data  which  indicate  possible  auto  induction 
following repeated administration of tecovirimat, variable bioavailability, and limited PK exposure in rats 
and rabbits and hyper-sensitivity for electroencephalographic (EEG) and CNS events in dogs.  Thus, the 
mouse and monkey were selected for toxicology evaluations. Both mouse and monkey used in efficacy 
models further supporting their use for toxicology evaluations. 
Key safety findings from non-clinical studies and relevance to human usage: 
Key  Safety  Findings  (from  Non-clinical 
Relevance to Human Usage 
Studies) 
Toxicity 
Single-dose Toxicity 
Toxicity 
Pivotal  single-dose  toxicity  studies  conducted  in 
Both  single-dose  and  repeat-dose  toxicity 
mice  and  monkeys  demonstrated  that  tecovirimat 
studies  with  tecovirimat  administered  by  the 
was  well  tolerated  following  oral  administration  of 
oral  route  to  mice  and  monkeys  showed  no 
up to 2,000 mg/kg (in both species) which produced 
significant 
tecovirimat-related 
findings.  
high systemic exposures to tecovirimat. 
The exposures achieved in mice and monkeys 
In a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) study in dogs, 
single oral administration of tecovirimat resulted in 
were higher than the human clinical exposure 
(at 600 mg BID dosing for 14 days). 
seizures and mortality at 300 mg/kg/day; however, 
The  dog  appears  to  be  hypersensitive  to  the 
no apparent seizures or changes in EEG were noted 
tecovirimat-induced CNS side effects as these 
at  100  mg/kg/day.  Tecovirimat  exposures  were 
findings  were  not  seen  in  any  of  the  other 
higher  in  male  dogs  compared  to  females,  which 
animal  species 
tested  with 
tecovirimat.  
may  explain  why  the  CNS  signs  were  observed  in 
However, based on these data, the Cmax value 
male dogs. The dose level of 100 mg/kg in the male 
of  5,575  ng/mL  is  considered  to  be  the 
dog  produced  Cmax  and  AUC0-24h  values  of  5,575 
maximum  allowable  exposure 
level 
for 
ng/mL  and  25,224  h•ng/mL,  respectively,  and  in 
humans. 
the female dog produced Cmax and AUC0-24h values 
of 3,825 ng/mL and 14,058 h•ng/mL, respectively. 
Repeat-dose Toxicity 
 
Key  Safety  Findings  (from  Non-clinical 
Relevance to Human Usage 
Studies) 
In  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies,  there  were  no 
significant  tecovirimat-related  findings  in  either 
mice  or  monkeys  administered  tecovirimat  by  the 
oral route. 
In  mice,  oral  administration  of  tecovirimat  for  28 
days and 3 months resulted in significant increases 
in relative liver and spleen weights at dose levels of 
600 mg/kg/day and above; however, these findings 
were  not  considered 
to  be  of 
toxicological 
significance given that there were no microscopic or 
clinical  chemistry  findings  and  the  weight  changes 
were  absent  in  the  recovery  animals.    Due to  the 
lack  of  tecovirimat-related  effects  at  the  highest 
dose  levels  in  the  28  day  and  3-month  study, 
respectively, the no-observed-adverse-effect levels 
(NOAEL) in the 28 day and 3-month mouse studies 
were 2,000 and 1,000 mg/kg/day, respectively. The 
exposures achieved in mice at the 1,000 mg/kg/day 
dose level in the 3-month study were approximately 
21-  to  24-fold  and  26-  to  32-fold  over  the  human 
clinical  exposure  (at 600  mg  BID  dosing  for  14 
days) for AUC and Cmax values, respectively. 
In  the  monkey,  oral  administration  of  tecovirimat 
for 28 days or 3 months did not result in any test 
article-related  effects  at  the  highest  tested  dose 
level  of  300  mg/kg/day.    Thus,  this  level  was 
determined  to  be  the  NOAEL  in  male  and  female 
monkeys  following  28  days  and  3  months  of  oral 
dosing. The dose of 300 mg/kg/day for 3 months in 
the monkey produced AUC and C values of 2.5-fold 
and  2.4-fold  over 
the  human  exposures, 
respectively, at a clinical dose of 600 mg BID for 14 
days. 
There  is  no  evidence  that  tecovirimat  causes 
seizures  or  pre-seizure  changes  in  the  monkey  at 
oral  dose  levels of  up  to 300  mg/kg/day  for  up  to 
3 months. 
Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity 
Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity 
In  the  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity 
No  embryo-foetal  or  maternal  toxicity  was 
studies, oral gavage administration of tecovirimat to 
recorded  in  mice.  Although  maternal  toxicity 
male and female mice was not associated with any 
at  highest  dose  tested  was  evident  in  the 
adverse effects on female fertility, implantation, or 
rabbit  study,  no  embryo-foetal  abnormalities 
early embryonic development at dose levels of 100, 
were recorded. 
300, or 1,000 mg/kg/day.  A significant increase in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key  Safety  Findings  (from  Non-clinical 
Relevance to Human Usage 
Studies) 
the number of abnormal sperm was noted in males 
No  adequate  and  well  controlled  studies  in 
at 1,000 mg/kg/day, but  no adverse effects noted 
pregnant  women  were  conducted;  therefore, 
at  100  or  300  mg/kg/day.  This  increase  was  not 
there  are  no  human  data  to  establish  the 
considered  to  be  biologically  meaningful.  No 
presence or absence of tecovirimat associated 
treatment-related effects were noted at necropsy.  
risk.  The  background  risk  of  major  birth 
In  the  fertility  and  early  embryonic  development 
study, a significant decrease was noted in the rate 
defects  and  miscarriage  for  the  indicated 
population is unknown. 
of  viable  foetuses  at  the  high-dose  level  of  1,000 
Tecovirimat  orally  administered  to  dams  can 
mg/kg/day; however, this finding was observed in 
cross the placenta and also be transferred to 
the  absence  of  a  significant  decrease  in  the 
offspring through the milk. 
No  adequate  and  well  controlled  studies  in 
breast-feeding  women  were 
conducted; 
therefore,  there  are  no  human  data  to 
establish 
the  presence  or  absence  of 
tecovirimat  associated  risk.  It  is  not  known 
whether  tecovirimat  is  excreted  in  human 
milk. 
Decreased  fertility  due  to  testicular  toxicity 
was observed in male mice. There are no data 
on  the  effect  of  tecovirimat  on  female  and 
male reproductive potential in humans. 
fertility/fecundity  rates  and  was  attributed  to  a 
single pregnant high-dose female that was included 
in the calculations for fertility/fecundity indices but 
was  not  included  in  the  group  of  females  given  a 
uterine exam on GD 13 (as a definitive GD 13 could 
not be determined for this animal). There were no 
other  tecovirimat-related  effects  reported  on  any 
fertility parameters. 
In  the  EFD  studies  conducted  in  mice  and  rabbits, 
oral  administration  of  tecovirimat  resulted  in 
adverse  effects  on  maternal  rabbits  when  given 
during the period of organogenesis but no effects on 
EFD  or  teratogenicity.  Maternal  toxicity  noted  in 
rabbits receiving 100 mg of tecovirimat/kg/day (the 
highest  dose  tested  in  this  species)  included 
mortality  (in  9  out  of  22  rabbits)  and  significant 
decreases in body weight (due to decreases in food 
consumption).  The  weight 
loss 
impacted  the 
number of live foetuses per doe and increased the 
post-implantation losses and early resorption levels.  
The  maternal  NOAELs  were  considered  to  be  the 
highest dose level of 1,000 mg/kg/day in mice and 
the mid-dose level of 30 mg/kg/day in rabbits while 
the developmental NOAELs in mice and rabbits were 
determined  to  be  the  highest  dose levels  of  1,000 
and 100 mg/kg/day, respectively. 
In  a  pre-  and  post-natal  development  study 
conducted  in  mice,  the  oral  administration  of 
tecovirimat at 100, 300, or 1,000 mg/kg/day did not 
result  in  any  adverse  effects  on  pre-  or  post-natal 
development. 
The reproductive and developmental toxicity studies 
were  further  supported  by  a  mouse  study  that 
showed  the  oral  administration  of  tecovirimat  to 
Key  Safety  Findings  (from  Non-clinical 
Relevance to Human Usage 
Studies) 
dams can cross the placenta and also be transferred 
to offspring through the milk. 
Safety Pharmacology 
Safety Pharmacology 
In  vitro  and  in  vivo  safety  pharmacology  studies 
In  vitro  and  in  vivo  safety  pharmacology 
have demonstrated the following: 
studies 
indicate  that  tecovirimat 
is  not 
• 
That  tecovirimat,  at  a  concentration  of 
30 μM  (the  highest  concentration  tested), 
expected 
to  pose  a 
significant  CNS, 
respiratory, or CV risk. 
has  no  inhibitory  effect  on  hERG-mediated 
Only in one study, a 12-day multiple oral dose 
potassium currents; 
(300 mg/kg/day) study in monkeys, was there 
• 
That  oral 
(gavage)  administration  of 
tecovirimat  was  not  associated  with  any 
significant  effects  on  CV 
function 
in 
monkeys  following  28  days  of  daily  dosing 
at levels of 30, 100, or 300 mg/kg/day; and 
evidence 
for  a  mild,  transient,  possibly 
tecovirimat-related,  prolongation  of  the  QT 
interval.  However,  based  on  the  results  of  a 
thorough  QTc  trial,  tecovirimat  does  not 
prolong  the  QT  interval  to  any  clinically 
relevant extent at the anticipated therapeutic 
• 
That  oral 
(gavage)  administration  of 
exposure. 
tecovirimat  was  not  associated  with 
significant effects on respiratory function in 
mice at dose levels of up to 2,000 mg/kg. 
There  were  no  safety  alerts 
for 
the 
cardiovascular  system,  respiratory  system, 
neuromuscular 
tone/function 
and 
In addition, there were no significant cardiovascular 
sensorimotor function in clinical trials. 
The  decrease  in  body  temperature  seen  in 
female mice at a dose of 2,000 mg/kg has not 
been  observed  during  human  studies.    The 
dose  of  2,000  mg/kg  greatly  exceeds  the 
human exposures (AUC) by 28 times. 
effect  of  the  oral  administration  of  tecovirimat  on 
qualitative  or  quantitative  ECG  parameters  in 
monkeys  administered  a  single  oral  dose  of 
tecovirimat  up  to  2,000  mg/kg,  or  multiple  oral 
doses  of  tecovirimat  as  high  as  300  mg/kg  up  to 
three months. Only in one study, a 12-day multiple 
oral dose (300 mg/kg/day) study in monkeys, was 
there  evidence  for  a  mild,  transient,  possibly 
tecovirimat-related, prolongation of the QT interval. 
A  GLP-compliant  neurobehavioral  study  in  mice 
demonstrated that the oral (gavage) administration 
of tecovirimat at single dose levels of 500, 1,000, or 
2,000  mg/kg  resulted  in  a  slightly  lower,  but 
statistically  significant,  value  for  general  arousal 
(decreased level of exploratory activity in the open 
field)  in  high-dose  females,  significant  decrease  in 
defecation  counts  in  mid-  and  high-dose  animals, 
and  a  significant  and  dose-dependent  decrease  in 
body  temperature  in  treated  females.  While  the 
temperature  decreases  observed  at  the  low-  and 
mid-dose  levels  were  not  considered  adverse,  the 
degree  of  hypothermia  observed 
following 
administration  of  the  high-dose  level  of  2,000 
mg/kg  in  females  was  considered  to  be  a  clear 
adverse  event.  There  were  no  test  article-related 
Key  Safety  Findings  (from  Non-clinical 
Relevance to Human Usage 
Studies) 
effects  on  parameters  generally  indicative  of 
neuromuscular  tone/function  or  on  sensorimotor 
function tests. 
Genotoxicity 
Tecovirimat was not genotoxic in in vitro or in vivo 
assays,  including  a  bacterial  reverse  mutation 
assay, a mammalian mutagenicity assay in mouse 
lymphoma  L5178Y/TK±  cells,  and  in  an  in  vivo 
mouse micronucleus study. 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  conducted 
with tecovirimat. 
Tecovirimat did not exhibit genotoxic potential 
in the studies conducted. 
The  anticipated  duration  of  administration  of 
tecovirimat is 14 days. As such, according to 
Guideline  CHMP/ICH/140/95,  carcinogenicity 
studies are not required for medicinal products 
used for short-term therapy where prolonged 
exposure is unlikely. 
Although animal carcinogenicity tests have not 
been  performed  with  tecovirimat,  there  is  no 
reason to suppose from the chemical structure 
that  the  compound  is  likely  to  possess 
significant carcinogenic potential. 
In summary, the pharmacology and non-clinical toxicology of tecovirimat supports the clinical use of 
this compound as an oral treatment of smallpox (variola) virus and other orthopoxviruses. Based on the 
totality of the data, especially the NOEL dose of 300 mg/kg/day after 90 days in the monkey, tecovirimat 
demonstrates a suitable clinical safety margin. 
Other toxicity-related information or data  
Both  single-dose  and  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  with  tecovirimat  administered  by  the  oral  route  to 
mice and monkeys showed no significant tecovirimat-related findings. The exposures achieved in mice 
and monkeys were higher than the human clinical exposure (at 600 mg BID dosing for 14 days). 
Reproductive  and  development  toxicity  studies  have  shown  signs  of  maternal  toxicity  at  the  highest 
dose of tecovirimat tested in the rabbit, but no embryo-foetal abnormalities were recorded.  No embryo-
foetal or maternal toxicity was recorded in mice. Tecovirimat orally administered to dams can cross the 
placenta and also be transferred to offspring through the milk. An increase in abnormal sperm count 
was observed in male mice at highest dose administered. Toxicity studies in monkeys for 12 days, 28 
days,  and  three  months  were  conducted  using  juvenile  animals  (less  than  36  months  old)  and 
demonstrated  no  evidence  of  systemic  toxicity  at  the  doses  administered.  Based  in  the  non-clinical 
findings,  reproductive  and  development  toxicity  is  a  potential  risk  when  administering  tecovirimat  to 
these patient populations. 
Pregnant and breastfeeding women were not included in the clinical trials with tecovirimat and there are 
therefore no human data to establish the presence or absence of tecovirimat-associated risk. 
The requested indication for the product is: “Treatment of orthopoxvirus disease (cowpox, monkeypox, 
smallpox and vaccinia complications) in adults 18 years of age and older and paediatric and adolescent 
 
patients  weighing  at  least  13  kg.”    Exposure  of  healthy  paediatric  subjects  to  Tecovirimat  with  no 
potential for direct clinical benefit to assess safety is not ethical, and therefore the benefits of treatment 
must be considered carefully against any potential risks when used in children weighing 13 kg or more. 
The  product  is  indicated  for  rare  or  eradicated  diseases  and  may  only  be  needed  in  the  event  of  an 
intentional  virus  release  or  complications  arising  during  a  mass  vaccination  campaign.  Under  such 
circumstances, the clinician would need to carefully consider on an individual basis whether the potential 
benefits  of  treatment  of  orthopoxvirus  infection  with  tecovirimat  outweigh  any  potential  risks  if 
considered for use by pregnant or breastfeeding women and their infants or, for males and females with 
reproductive potential. 
 
 
Part II:  Module SIII - Clinical trial exposure 
In the absence of a significant orthopoxvirus disease burden in the human population, traditional drug 
development that includes demonstration of efficacy in infected human patients is not possible because 
adequate and well-controlled field trials have not been feasible and inducing an orthopoxvirus disease 
in humans to study the drug’s efficacy is not ethical. Therefore, efficacy data for tecovirimat are based 
on studies conducted in animals alone. The pivotal in vivo efficacy studies were conducted in Cynomolgus 
monkeys  and  rabbits;  additional  studies  were  conducted  in  mouse,  prairie  dog,  and  squirrel  models. 
Pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and safety data are from clinical trials with human subjects. 
The safety of tecovirimat in humans, has been established in 12 clinical studies with non-infected human 
subjects, including subjects with varying degrees of renal and hepatic impairment. 
The  safety  profile  of  tecovirimat  in  humans  primarily  relies  on  one  pivotal  Phase  3  study 
(SIGA-246-008), in which the study population, healthy adult subjects aged 18-79 years, is believed to 
adequately represent the population for treatment. The results of this study are supported by three (3) 
three supportive multiple-dose studies (SIGA-246-015, SIGA-246-002, and SIGA-246-004 , and eight 
(8) supportive single-dose studies (SIGA-246-001, SIGA-246-PO-005, SIGA-246-006, SIGA-246-009, 
SIGA-246-010,  SIGA-246-012,  SIGA-246-013,  and  SIGA-246-018—note  that  while  safety  data  was 
derived from the SIGA-246-006 study, drug was not ingested). 
The clinical studies that have been conducted with tecovirimat have focused on safety and tolerability 
evaluations and pharmacokinetics at various dose levels, primarily under fed conditions. Additionally, 
one of the studies was designed to evaluate the effects of a single supratherapeutic dose of tecovirimat 
on the QT interval. All the clinical studies with tecovirimat were performed in adults. 
No statistical analysis plan (SAP) was developed for review of safety because only study SIGA-246-008 
represents the most robust safety data (for the target population for treatment and at the agreed-upon 
clinical dose of 600 mg twice daily for 14 days). 
All human studies were conducted according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines. 
Overall,  the  size  of  the  safety  database  from  the  pivotal,  supportive  multiple-dose,  and  supportive 
single-dose  clinical  studies  enables  adequate,  meaningful  assessment  of  the  safety  and  tolerability 
profile of tecovirimat.  
Across all pivotal, supportive multiple-dose, and supportive single-dose studies of tecovirimat, subjects 
have been exposed to tecovirimat at total daily doses ranging from 250-2000 mg for between 1 and 
21 days. In the cases of emergency and Named Patient use, the patients were exposed to tecovirimat 
at daily doses ranging from 50-1200 mg for between 14 days and approximately 2 months. 
Exposure  data  for  the  pivotal,  supportive  multiple-dose,  and  supportive  single-dose  studies  are 
summarised below. 
 
 
Table SIII.1:  Duration and dose of exposure 
Duration 
Daily Dose (mg) 
of 
exposure 
2000  100
800  600 
600  500  400  250  100  200 
0 
(BID
) 
7 
3 
3 
4 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
7 
70  
8 
1 
12 
12 
11 
2 
1 
1 
31 
1 
2 
1 
1 
328 
41 
42  
1 
78 
1 
6 
8 
1 
6 
437 
146  8 
65 
7 
8 
1 day 
7 
64 
2 days 
3 days 
5 days 
7 days 
8 days 
9 days 
10 days 
11 days 
12 days 
13 days 
14 days 
15 days 
20 days 
21 days 
Total 
7 
64 
subjects 
per  daily 
dose  
Total 
subjects 
per 
duration  of 
exposure 
181 
45 
5 
4 
1 
1 
1 
3 
1 
5 
8 
413 
78 
2 
19 
12 
12 
Total 
subjects  
767 
Person 
7 
64 
160  591
745  8 
849  161  12 
12 
Total 
time 
(days) 
2 
BID=Twice daily 
person 
time (days) 
7930 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table SIII.2:  Age group and gender  
Age group 
Subjects 
Person time 
M 
F 
Adults (e.g. 18 to 64 years) 
Elderly people 
           65-74 years 
75-84 years 
           85 + years 
Total 
Table SIII.3:  Ethnic origin  
Ethnic origin 
Hispanic or Latino 
Not Hispanic or Latino 
Other 
Total 
Table SIII.4:  Race  
Race  
White 
Black 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 
Other 
Total 
M 
379 
12 
1 
0 
F 
352 
20 
3 
0 
392 
375 
Subjects 
Person time 
164 
602 
1 
767 
Subjects 
Person time 
512 
218 
14 
8 
3 
12 
767 
In addition to the 11 clinical studies with non-infected volunteers, there is clinical experience from six (6) 
cases  of  emergency  use  in  the  US  (from  2007 to  2016)  and  four  (4)  cases  of  Named  Patient  use  in 
Europe (the first in Finland in 2009 and three (3) further cases during 2019 in Germany and Sweden). 
Emergency use in the US: 
•  A 28-month-old male (10 kg) received tecovirimat orally for 14 days at a dose of 50 mg (2 days), 
75 mg (2 days) and 100 mg (10 days) once daily. 
•  A 20-year-old male received treatment for 73 days with daily oral tecovirimat (400-1200 mg; 
total of nearly 75 g) and for 68 days with topical tecovirimat (39.7-1110 ng/mL). 
•  A 37-year-old female received tecovirimat orally for 14 days at a dose of 400 mg once daily. 
•  A 25-year-old female received tecovirimat orally for 14 days at a dose of 400 mg once daily. 
•  A 19-year-old male received tecovirimat for two months at a dose of 600 mg twice daily. 
•  A 26-year-old female received tecovirimat orally for 14 days at a dose of 600 mg twice daily. 
Additional  details  are  provided  in  CTD  Modules  2.7.2  Summary  of  Clinical  Pharmacology  Studies  and 
2.7.4 Summary of Clinical Safety. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Named Patient use in Europe: 
•  A 32-year-old female in Finland received tecovirimat orally for 14 days at a dose of 400 mg once 
daily for cowpox infection. 
•  A  32-year-old  male  in  Germany  received  tecovirimat  orally  for  nine  (9)  days  twice  daily 
(dose not specified) for cowpox infection. 
•  A 57-year-old female in Sweden received tecovirimat orally for four (4) months at a dose of 600 
mg twice daily for cowpox infection.  The dose was then increased to 800 mg twice daily.  A 
month later, the dose was again increased to 1000 mg twice daily. 
•  A 34-year-old female in Germany received tecovirimat orally for seven (7) days at a dose of 400 
mg twice daily for orthopoxvirus infection. 
 
Part II:  Module SIV - Populations not studied in clinical trials 
Children 
The safety of tecovirimat in children and adolescents below 18 years of age has not yet been established. 
Paediatric subjects have not been studied in clinical trials with tecovirimat. Since tecovirimat has been 
developed  for  treatment  of  rare  or  eradicated  diseases  and  may  only  be  needed  in  the  event  of  an 
intentional virus release or complications arising during a mass vaccination campaign, clinical efficacy 
studies, especially in paediatrics, cannot be justified. 
Subjects age across the tecovirimat clinical safety studies ranged from 18 to 80 years, so safety data 
are available for young adults. 
Therefore, it is proposed that the plan for use in the paediatric age-groups should be based on juvenile 
non-clinical safety, pharmacokinetic (PK) and efficacy studies, and adult clinical safety studies. 
SIGA submitted a Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) to the EMA for tecovirimat on 09 September 2019 
(EMEA-001205-PIP02-19).  Following  Day  60  and  90  comments  and  submission  of  responses,  the 
‘Opinion  of  the  Paediatric  Committee  on  the  agreement  of  the  PIP  and  a  deferral’  was  issued  on 
29 May 2020.   
Elderly 
Elderly subjects have only been studied to a limited degree in clinical trials with tecovirimat. 
Analysis  of  a  subset  of  safety  variables  based  on  age  was  undertaken  in  two  (2)  clinical  studies  of 
tecovirimat:  study  SIGA-246-008  and  study  SIGA-246-004.  In  study  SIGA-246-008,  there  were  no 
statistically significant effects of age on the incidence of TEAEs when subjects were stratified into four (4) 
groups (18-30 years, 31-34 years, 46-64 years, and 65-80 years), but when the groups were collapsed 
into two (2) groups (18-45 years versus 46-80 years), older subjects had a somewhat increased chance 
of  experiencing  a  TEAE  compared  to  younger  subjects  (odds  ratio  of  1.70).  In  study  SIGA-246-004, 
there were no statistically significant differences in the incidence of TEAEs based on age, regardless of 
whether subjects were stratified into four (4) groups or two (2) groups. 
Together, these results suggest no clinically important effects of age on the safety of tecovirimat. 
Pregnant and breastfeeding women 
The safety of tecovirimat in pregnant and breastfeeding women has not yet been established. 
No  clinical  studies  of  tecovirimat  in  pregnant  women  have  been  performed,  and  there  is  no  clinical 
experience with tecovirimat in lactating women to know whether tecovirimat is excreted in human breast 
milk. 
Subjects of Different Racial and/or Ethnic Origin 
Subjects of different racial and/or ethnic origin have only been studied to a limited degree in clinical 
trials with tecovirimat. 
Racial and/or ethnic origin had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of tecovirimat. 
Immunocompromised subjects 
The safety of tecovirimat in immunocompromised subjects has not yet been established. 
No  clinical  studies  of  tecovirimat  in  immunocompromised  subjects  have  been  performed.  Studies  in 
immunocompromised  animal  models  demonstrated  a  potential  for  reduced efficacy,  but  no  increased 
safety concern. 
Subjects with orthopoxvirus diseases 
The safety of tecovirimat in patients with orthopoxvirus diseases has not yet been established. 
Patients with the target conditions (smallpox, monkeypox, cowpox and vaccinia complications) were not 
included in the clinical development programme. Only very limited data is available from six (6) cases 
of emergency use in the US and four (4) cases of Named Patient use in Europe. 
SIV.1 
programme 
Exclusion criteria in pivotal clinical studies within the development 
Exclusion criteria in the pivotal Phase 3 study (SIGA-246-008): 
Exclusion criteria 
Reasons for exclusion 
Is 
it 
Rationale  for  not 
considered  to 
including 
as 
be  included  as 
missing 
missing 
information 
information? 
Pregnant 
breast-feeding 
or 
or 
Maternal  toxicity  at  highest 
Yes 
Not applicable 
dose  tested  was  evident  in  a 
planning pregnancy 
rabbit study, no embryo-foetal 
abnormalities were recorded. 
Tecovirimat 
orally 
administered 
to  dams  can 
cross the placenta and also be 
transferred 
to 
offspring 
through the milk. 
Exposing  healthy  pregnant  or 
breastfeeding subjects who do 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Have  a  history  of  any 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
clinically 
significant 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
conditions. 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern 
for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
Exclusion criteria 
Reasons for exclusion 
Is 
it 
Rationale  for  not 
considered  to 
including 
as 
be  included  as 
missing 
missing 
information 
information? 
Have  any  limitation  of 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
activity 
related 
to 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
cardiac disease. 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Have 
a 
bleeding 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
disorder diagnosed by a 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
doctor,  or  a  history  of 
infection  to  an  experimental 
significant  bruising  or 
product.  Study required blood 
bleeding 
with 
draws and did not want to add 
intramuscular injections 
complications for subjects. 
or blood draws. 
Currently  using  certain 
Avoiding combination use with 
No 
medications. 
certain 
cytochrome 
P450 
(CYP)3A  products,  as  well  as 
CYP2C8 
and 
CYP2C19 
products,  as  tecovirimat  may 
be a weak inducer or inhibitor. 
dose,  not  a  concern 
for efficacy. 
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy. 
Relevant  to  clinical 
trial participants 
Human  clinical  drug 
interaction 
data 
demonstrates 
tecovirimat to be an 
inducer  of  CYP3A4 
and  CYP2B6  and  a 
weak 
inhibitor  of 
CYP2C8 
and 
CYP2C19. 
Monitoring 
is 
advised  during  co-
administration 
of 
tecovirimat 
with 
CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 
substrates as well as 
CYP2C8 
and 
CYP2C19  substrates 
that  have  narrow 
therapeutic 
windows. 
More 
information 
is 
Exclusion criteria 
Reasons for exclusion 
Is 
it 
Rationale  for  not 
considered  to 
including 
as 
be  included  as 
missing 
missing 
information 
information? 
Have a malignancy that 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
is  active  or  a  treated 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
malignancy  for  which 
infection  to  an  experimental 
there  is  no  reasonable 
product. 
assurance  of  sustained 
cure,  or  malignancy 
that  is  likely  to  recur 
during the study. 
Have  a  history  of 
Noted  seizure  activity  when 
No 
seizure. 
tecovirimat  administered 
to 
dogs 
at 
doses 
of  300 
mg/kg/day.  Human maximum 
exposure  levels  set  based  on 
blood exposures in dogs at 100 
mg/kg/day 
that 
did  not 
produce seizures. 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Have 
a 
clinically 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
significant 
dyscrasia 
blood 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
provided 
in 
the 
SmPC section 4.5.  
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy. 
Human  maximum 
exposure  levels  set 
based 
on 
blood 
exposures in dogs at 
100 mg/kg/day that 
did  not  produce 
seizures. 
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy. 
Have  a  history  of  drug 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
Hypersensitivity 
allergy 
that 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
contraindicates 
infection  to  an  experimental 
participation in the trial 
product. 
tecovirimat 
excipients 
contraindicated. 
to 
or 
is 
 
Exclusion criteria 
Reasons for exclusion 
Is 
it 
Rationale  for  not 
considered  to 
including 
as 
be  included  as 
missing 
missing 
information 
information? 
No  direct  drug  allergies  to 
tecovirimat 
have 
been 
determined  to  date.    Potential 
for  allergies  to  drug  product 
excipients.  
Have 
a 
medical, 
Not using subjects who will not 
No 
psychiatric,  or  social 
be  able  to  fully  participate  in 
condition 
or 
any 
the  study  and  attend  all 
occupational  reason,  or 
medical 
appointments 
as 
other responsibility that 
required 
Specific  to  conduct 
of clinical trial only. 
in  the  judgment  of  the 
investigator 
would 
render 
the 
subject 
unable  to  comply  with 
the protocol 
Have  an 
inability  to 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
swallow medication 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Additional 
labelling 
instructions 
administering 
for 
the 
product 
to 
those 
unable  to  swallow 
are  included  in  the 
product 
information. 
Have 
a 
clinically 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
ECG  clinical  study 
significant 
abnormal 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
ECG. 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Have  participated  in  a 
Avoid  possible 
interactions 
No 
clinical  trial  within  30 
with other experimental drugs 
conducted 
demonstrating 
no 
issue  with  QTc 
prolongation  with 
tecovirimat. 
Relevant  to  clinical 
trial 
participants 
days  of  study  entry  or 
that would confound results in 
only. 
planning  to  participate 
a tecovirimat study. 
in  any  experimental 
treatment  study  during 
the study period 
Have  a  history  of/  or 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
current  drug  or  alcohol 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
abuse 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Do  not  anticipate 
drug 
interactions 
with  alcohol  and 
clinical  studies 
in 
subjects 
with 
Exclusion criteria 
Reasons for exclusion 
Is 
it 
Rationale  for  not 
considered  to 
including 
as 
be  included  as 
missing 
missing 
information 
information? 
Have 
received 
Exposing  subjects  who  do  not 
No 
immunisations/vaccines 
have 
an 
orthopoxvirus 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Potential 
for 
interference 
between 
tecovirimat and the vaccine. 
Have a current clinically 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
significant 
acute 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
bacterial, 
fungal,  or 
infection  to  an  experimental 
mycobacterial  infection 
product. 
requiring administration 
of systemic antibiotics 
Have  known  chronic 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
bacterial, 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
mycobacterial, 
fungal, 
infection  to  an  experimental 
parasitic,  or  protozoal 
product. 
infection 
with 
the 
exception  of  clinically 
significant 
dermal 
infections 
hepatic  impairment 
did  not 
indicate 
metabolism 
issues 
with tecovirimat. 
No 
vaccine-drug 
interaction  studies 
have 
been 
performed in human 
subjects. 
  Some 
animal studies have 
indicated  that  co-
administration 
of 
tecovirimat  at  the 
same  time  as  live 
smallpox 
vaccine 
(vaccinia virus) may 
reduce  the  immune 
response 
to 
the 
vaccine. 
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy. 
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy. 
 
Exclusion criteria 
Reasons for exclusion 
Is 
it 
Rationale  for  not 
considered  to 
including 
as 
be  included  as 
missing 
missing 
information 
information? 
Have known hepatitis B 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
or  C 
infection,  or 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
positive test result 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
 The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy. 
Have 
known 
HIV 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
Yes 
Not applicable 
infection  or  AIDS  or  a 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
positive test for HIV 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Have a current clinically 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
significant 
infection 
viral 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Have  known  clinically 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
significant  chronic  viral 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
infection 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy. 
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy. 
Have 
received 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
Yes 
Not applicable 
treatment  with  greater 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
than 20  mg  prednisone 
infection  to  an  experimental 
or  equivalent  dose  or 
product. 
any 
Exclusion criteria 
Reasons for exclusion 
Is 
it 
Rationale  for  not 
considered  to 
including 
as 
be  included  as 
missing 
missing 
information 
information? 
immunosuppressant  or 
immunomodulary 
medication 
Have 
abnormal 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
laboratory 
testing 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
during screening 
infection  to  an  experimental 
product. 
Have  a  greater  than  or 
Exposing sick subjects who do 
No 
equal  than  20%  risk  of 
not  have  an  orthopoxvirus 
suffering 
a  major 
infection  to  an  experimental 
cardiovascular event 
product. 
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy. 
The  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  active 
orthopoxvirus 
infections  is  not  a 
concern  for  safety 
and, 
based 
on 
nonclinical  data  and 
the  method  used  to 
identify  the  human 
dose, not a concern 
for efficacy 
Have  been  previously 
Avoid  giving  healthy  subjects 
No 
Relevant  to  clinical 
enrolled  in  this  or  any 
who 
do 
not 
have 
an 
clinical  trial 
involving 
orthopoxvirus 
infection 
tecovirimat 
multiple  exposures 
to  an 
experimental antiviral product. 
participants 
trial 
only 
 
SIV.2 
programmes  
Limitations to detect adverse reactions in clinical trial development 
Because  tecovirimat  is  a  novel  therapeutic  agent,  adverse  events  of  the  pharmacological  class  are 
unknown. 
In  the  pivotal  Phase  3  study  (SIGA-246-008)  tecovirimat  was  given  to  359  subjects  who  have  been 
followed up for either 28 days or 45 days in case the subject presented unresolved adverse events on 
the day  28  follow-up  visit.    This  reduces  the  ability to  detect  late  occurring  events  or events of  long 
latency. 
The clinical development programme is unlikely to detect certain types of adverse reactions such as rare 
(≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000) and very rare (<1/10,000) adverse reactions or adverse reactions with a long 
latency, nor has the product been tested in the disease setting. 
In  the  pivotal  Phase  3  study  (SIGA-246-008)  two  600  mg  doses  of  tecovirimat  were  given  daily  for 
14 days. In the supportive multiple dose studies either two 600 mg doses or one dose of either 800, 
600, 400 or 250 mg were given for periods ranging from 2 to 21 days. 
In  the  supportive  single  dose  studies,  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  at  least  1  TEAE  was  generally 
lower  than  in  the  pivotal  or  multiple-dose  studies  and  showed  no  clear  dose-related  trends  across 
studies. Similarly, treatment-related TEAEs were also less frequent than in the pivotal or multiple-dose 
studies and did not show clear dose-related trends across studies. 
SIV.3 
in clinical trial development programmes 
Limitations  in  respect  to  populations  typically  under-represented 
Table SIV.2:  Exposure of special populations included or not in clinical trial development programmes 
Type of special population  
Exposure 
Pregnant women 
Not included in the clinical development 
programme 
Breastfeeding women 
Paediatric population 
Children and adolescents <18 years are not 
included in the clinical development 
programme 
Elderly 
5% of subjects were aged 65-80 years old 
Subjects with relevant comorbidities: 
Immunocompromised subjects are not 
• 
Immunocompromised subjects 
included in the clinical development 
programme 
Population with relevant different ethnic origin 
67% of subjects were white, 28% were black, 
2% were Asian, and 3% were of other races 
Subpopulations carrying relevant genetic 
Not applicable 
polymorphisms 
Other: 
• 
Patients with the target conditions (smallpox, 
monkeypox, cowpox and vaccinia 
complications) 
Not included in the clinical development 
programme 
 
 
Part II:  Module SV - Post-authorisation experience    
SV.1 Post-authorisation exposure 
SV.1.1 Method used to calculate exposure 
Not applicable 
SV.1.2 Exposure 
Not applicable  
 
 
Part  II:    Module  SVI  -  Additional  EU  requirements  for  the 
safety specification 
Potential for misuse for illegal purposes 
Tecovirimat is not known to have attributes which make it a candidate for intentional overdose, abuse, 
or illegal use. Therefore, no potential for misuse for illegal purposes is anticipated. 
 
 
Part II:  Module SVII - Identified and potential risks  
SVII.1 
Identification of safety concerns in the initial RMP submission  
SVII.1.1. Risks not considered important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns in the RMP  
The  following  adverse  reactions  were  identified  during  Phase  3  clinical  trials  with  tecovirimat  with  a 
frequency  of  common  or very  common: headache, dizziness,  nausea,  diarrhoea,  vomiting,  abdominal 
pain upper, dry mouth. While these adverse reactions may be considered as risks due to frequency and 
potential detrimental impact on the patient’s well-being, the clinical impact of these risks on patients is 
considered minimal in relation to the severity of the indication treated and the potential life-threatening 
nature of the underlying disease. These risks are therefore not considered important for inclusion in the 
list of safety concerns. 
Psychiatric disorders, skin reactions, arthralgia and osteoarthritis were identified during Phase 3 clinical 
trials with tecovirimat with a frequency of uncommon. While these adverse reactions may be considered 
as risks due to potential clinical consequences, the low frequency is considered acceptable in relation to 
the severity of the indication treated. These risks are therefore not considered important for inclusion in 
the list of safety concerns. 
Resistance - the possibility of resistance to tecovirimat is included in Section 5.1 of the proposed SmPC. 
As there are no known instances of naturally occurring tecovirimat resistant orthopoxviruses, this risk is 
not considered important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns. 
Reason  for  not  including  an  identified  or  potential  risk  in  the list  of safety  concerns in  the 
RMP: 
Risks with minimal clinical impact on patients (in relation to the severity of the indication treated): 
Headache, dizziness, nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, abdominal pain upper, dry mouth 
Adverse  reactions  with  clinical  consequences,  even  serious,  but  occurring  with  a  low  frequency  and 
considered to be acceptable in relation to the severity of the indication treated: 
Psychiatric disorders, skin reactions, arthralgia, osteoarthritis 
Known risks that require no further characterisation and are followed up via routine pharmacovigilance 
namely  through  signal  detection  and  adverse  reaction  reporting,  and  for  which  the  risk  minimisation 
messages in the product information are adhered by prescribers (e.g. actions being part of standard 
clinical practice in each EU Member state where the product is authorised): 
None 
Known risks that do not impact the risk-benefit profile: 
Drug-drug interactions 
Other reasons for considering the risks not important: 
Resistance – while there is a possibility of tecovirimat resistance, there are no known instances of 
naturally occurring tecovirimat resistant orthopoxviruses. 
SVII.1.2. Risks considered important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns in the RMP 
Important Identified Risks:   
There are no important identified risks associated with treatment with tecovirimat. 
Important Potential Risks:   
There are no important potential risks associated with treatment with tecovirimat. 
Missing information 1:  Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk-benefit impact 
Pregnant  and  breastfeeding  women  were  excluded  from  enrolment  in  the  clinical  development 
programme  thus  the  risks  of  use  in  this  population  cannot  be  defined.  The  safety  profile  for  this 
population  will  be  derived  from  routine  and  additional  PV  activities,  if  tecovirimat  is  administered  to 
pregnant and breastfeeding woman in the event of an intentional virus release, a natural outbreak, or 
complications arising during a mass vaccination campaign. 
Missing information 2:  Use in immunocompromised subjects 
Risk-benefit impact 
Immunocompromised subjects were not included in the clinical development programme thus the risks 
of use in this population cannot be defined. The safety profile for this population will be derived from 
routine and additional PV activities, if tecovirimat is administered to immunocompromised patients in 
the  event  of  an  intentional  virus  release,  a  natural  outbreak,  or  complications  arising  during  a  mass 
vaccination campaign. 
SVII.2  New safety concerns and reclassification with a submission of an 
updated RMP  
Not applicable, this is the first RMP submitted for tecovirimat. 
SVII.3  Details of important identified risks, important potential risks, and 
missing information. 
SVII.3.1. Presentation of important identified risks and important potential risks 
Important Identified Risks: 
There are no important identified risks associated with treatment with tecovirimat. 
Important Potential Risks:   
There are no important potential risks associated with treatment with tecovirimat 
SVII.3.2. Presentation of the missing information 
Missing information:  Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Evidence source:  
Pregnant  and  breastfeeding  women  were  excluded  from  enrolment  in  the  clinical  development 
programme thus the risks of use in this population cannot be defined. 
Population in need of further characterisation: 
Pregnant and breastfeeding women 
Missing information:  Use in immunocompromised subjects 
Evidence source: 
Immunocompromised subjects were not included in the clinical development programme thus the risks 
of use in this population cannot be defined. 
Population in need of further characterisation: 
Immunocompromised subjects. 
 
 
Part II:  Module SVIII - Summary of the safety concerns 
A  summary  of  the  safety  concerns  identified  during  the  clinical  programme  is  provided  in  the  table 
below. 
Table SVIII.1:  Summary of safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
None 
None 
Missing information 
Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Use in immunocompromised subjects 
 
 
Part III:  Pharmacovigilance Plan 
(including post-authorisation safety studies) 
III.1 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
As part of routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond adverse reactions reporting and signal detection, 
the following targeted follow-up forms will be used to address the safety concerns identified in Module 
SVIII and to obtain structured information regarding use in these missing information patient groups: 
•  Use in pregnancy and lactation: pregnancy targeted follow-up form and pregnancy outcome follow-
up request letter for both ongoing and completed pregnancies. 
•  Use  in  immunocompromised  subjects:  targeted  follow-up  form  for  use  in  immunocompromised 
subjects. 
To  ensure  that  not  only  cases  with  reported  adverse  events  from  ‘missing  information’  groups  are 
recorded but also cases with favourable outcomes and thereby allow for analysis of the frequency of 
adverse  reactions  in  the  overall  population  of  the  respective  ‘missing  information’  group,  the  MAH 
proposes to include a communication to prescribers with the packaging to advise on the reporting and 
forwarding of all exposed individuals from the ‘missing information’ patient groups. 
In  addition,  the  MAH  will  provide  summary  case  report  information  for  those  cases  of  monkeypox, 
cowpox or complications due to replication of vaccinia that may occur in the European Union for which 
tecovirimat is used. 
III.2 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities  
There  are  challenges  in  relation  to  the  further  characterisation  of  the  missing  information:  use  in 
pregnancy and lactation and use in immunocompromised subjects. Exposure to the product averages 
approximately two (2) to three (3) cases per year, and barring an outbreak, is unlikely to significantly 
change. While there may be increased use of the product due to increased awareness and roll-out in 
new countries, any growth in the size of the population exposed in the coming years may be insufficient 
to draw any meaningful conclusions regarding use of the product in the missing information categories. 
SIGA has agreements in place to supply tecovirimat to Mpox studies that are enrolling new patients.  
The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the United States has been collecting data on 
hundreds of Mpox patients treated with tecovirimat through their expanded access protocol and have 
agreed to share this data with SIGA. The objective is to provide stockpiled tecovirimat for treatment of 
non-variola orthopoxvirus infections (e.g. mpox, vaccinia, or other human virus infection identified as 
an  orthopoxvirus)  and  secondary  treatment  of  complications  from  replication-competent  vaccinia 
vaccine in adults and children. To monitor clinical use of tecovirimat under this expanded access IND 
program,  occurrence  of  serious  adverse  events  and/or  selected  adverse  events  of  interest,  patient 
treatment,  and  outcomes  information  are  also  intended  to  be  collected  to  the  extent  feasible  (e.g., 
baseline  clinical  conditions,  progression/improvement  during  or  post  treatment,  recovered  or  not 
recovered from orthopoxvirus infection). 
There is a single-centre Expanded Access Protocol being conducted in the Central African Republic that 
aims  to  provide  access  to  tecovirimat  (TPOXX)  to  patients  with  monkeypox  as  well  as  to  generate 
information about its safety and effectiveness that could help inform future use and clinical development, 
which has agreed to share its data with SIGA.  
Data from multiple studies may be combined in a single report, as a meta-analysis, if enough subjects 
are not enrolled in any single study. 
While  naturally  occurring  monkeypox  infections  are  rising  in  Africa,  the  present  infrastructure  in  the 
region is not adequate for conducting clinical studies and with ongoing political instability, it is not safe 
for patients or staffing personnel. Vaccinia and cowpox infections are rare and sporadic making it unlikely 
that adequate data could be gathered in a reasonable amount of time to complete a trial. 
In  this  context,  SIGA  will  undertake  a  Phase  4,  observational  smallpox  field  study  as  an  imposed 
additional  pharmacovigilance  activity  (Category  2)  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan  (SIGA-246-021:  A 
Phase 4, Observational Field Study to Evaluate the Safety and Clinical Benefit in TPOXX® (Tecovirimat)-
Treated Patients Following Exposure to Variola Virus and Clinical Diagnosis of Smallpox Disease). Details 
of  the  study  (which  is  a  post-marketing  commitment  in  the  United  States)  are  provided  in  the  table 
below. The inherent limitations of dependence on an outbreak to gather data are acknowledged, and it 
is noted that any data gathered in relation to the missing information categories would likely be limited, 
particularly  in  the  pregnant/lactating  populations.  However,  based  on  the  disease  epidemiology  and 
exposure projections, the field study is considered the best available option for further characterisation 
of missing information. See Annex 3 for copy of protocol. 
SIGA understands that gathering information concerning “Use in pregnancy and lactation” and “Use in 
immunocompromised  subjects”  for  the  other  indications  -  monkeypox,  cowpox  and  the  treatment  of 
complications  due  to  replication  of  vaccinia  virus  following  vaccination  against  smallpox,  will  not  be 
captured by the US Field Study. To this regard, it would be difficult to gather this data as part of a field 
study  for the  reasons  listed  above.  SIGA  commits  to  submitting  summary  case  report  information  of 
any cases involving pregnancy and lactation or immunocompromised patients in the above mentioned 
indications, and discussing them in context healthy individuals whom have taken Tecovirimat SIGA and 
other patients who were either pregnant and lactating or immunocompromised.   
Study identifier 
SIGA-246-021 
(A Phase 4, Observational Field Study to Evaluate the Safety 
and Clinical Benefit in TPOXX® (Tecovirimat)-Treated Patients 
Following Exposure to Variola Virus and Clinical Diagnosis of 
Smallpox Disease) 
Rationale and study objectives 
The purpose of this field study is to evaluate the safety, survival 
status, time to death, and smallpox rash progression in patients 
who are receiving tecovirimat for the treatment of smallpox in 
the United States. 
This study is being conducted as a Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) 
regulatory  post-marketing 
commitment 
for 
the 
tecovirimat New Drug Application. 
Primary Objectives: 
The primary objectives of this study are as follows: 
• To assess the overall survival at Day 44 (±2 days) following 
treatment with tecovirimat in patients with smallpox 
 
 
• To evaluate the safety and tolerability of tecovirimat treatment 
in patients with smallpox 
Secondary Objectives: 
The  secondary  objectives  of  this  study  are  to  evaluate  the 
following in patients with smallpox: 
• Survival status following completion of 14 days of treatment 
with tecovirimat  
• Time to death following treatment with tecovirimat, and 
• Rash progression associated with treatment with tecovirimat  
Exploratory Objective: 
The exploratory objective of this study is as follows: 
• To evaluate plasma concentrations of tecovirimat from any 
available samples. 
Study design 
Phase  4,  observational  field  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and 
clinical benefit in tecovirimat-treated patients following exposure 
to  variola  virus  and  clinical  diagnosis  of  smallpox  disease. 
Study population 
Adult and paediatric patients (who weigh ≥13 kg) who receive 
tecovirimat as part of their medical treatment for variola virus 
infection in the United States. 
The study anticipates continuing enrolment for five (5) years or 
until 100 patients have completed the study (Day 44 ± 2 days), 
whichever comes first, and will remain open between smallpox 
outbreaks. 
Milestones 
Protocol Submission: Submitted to U.S. FDA on 7 JUN 2019. 
Date of initiation: Formal enrolment was opened on 1 JAN 2020 
in  the  U.S.  The  study  is  not  yet  initiated  as  no  patients  have 
been diagnosed with smallpox. 
Start of data collection: Not yet initiated. Study does not start 
enrolling patients until the first case of smallpox is noted. 
Date  for  completion:  To  be  provided  in  annual  re-assessment 
and  no  later  than  12  months  after  the  last  administration  of 
tecovirimat for the treatment of smallpox or last data collection 
in 
case 
of 
retrospective 
data 
collection.  
 
 
 
 
III.3 
Summary Table of additional Pharmacovigilance activities 
Table Part III.3:  On-going and planned additional pharmacovigilance activities. 
 
Study Status 
Summary of 
Safety 
Milestones  Due dates 
objectives 
concerns 
addressed 
Category 1 - Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are conditions of 
the marketing authorisation  
None 
Category 2 – Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are Specific 
Obligations in the context of a conditional marketing authorisation or a marketing authorisation 
under exceptional circumstances 
SIGA-246-021 (A Phase 4, 
Observational field 
Missing 
Start date 
Study will start 
Observational Field Study to 
study to evaluate 
information:  
Evaluate the Safety and 
safety and clinical 
Clinical Benefit in TPOXX® 
benefit in tecovirimat-
(Tecovirimat)-Treated Patients 
treated patients 
Use in pregnancy 
and lactation 
Following Exposure to Variola 
following exposure to 
Use in 
Virus and Clinical Diagnosis of 
variola virus and 
immunocompromi
Smallpox Disease) 
clinical diagnosis of 
sed subjects  
smallpox disease. 
Planned 
with enrolling 
patient when 
the first case 
of smallpox is 
noted 
To be provided 
in annual re-
assessment 
and no later 
Final report 
than 12 
months after 
the last 
administration 
of tecovirimat 
for the 
treatment of 
smallpox or 
last data 
collection in 
case of 
retrospective 
data collection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study Status 
Summary of 
Safety 
Milestones  Due dates 
objectives 
concerns 
addressed 
In order to ensure adequate 
To monitor the safety 
Missing 
monitoring of safety and 
and efficacy of 
information:  
efficacy of Tecovirimat in the 
Tecovirimat in the 
treatment of the Smallpox, 
treatment of the 
Mpox, Cowpox viral infections 
Smallpox, Mpox, 
Use in pregnancy 
and lactation 
and complications due to 
Cowpox viral infections 
Use in 
replication of vaccinia virus 
and complications due 
immunocompromi
following vaccination against 
to replication of 
sed subjects 
smallpox in adults and 
vaccinia virus in the 
children with body weight at 
Expanded Access for 
least 13 kg, the MAH shall 
Treatment of Human 
provide yearly updates on any 
Non-Variola 
new information concerning 
Orthopoxvirus and 
the safety and efficacy of 
Mpox in the expanded 
Tecovirimat, which is currently 
access for the 
satisfied by providing timely 
treatment of 
results from studies: 
monkeypox infection. 
Annually (with 
annual re-
assessment) 
and no later 
than 12 
months after 
the last 
administration 
of tecovirimat 
or last data 
collection in 
case of 
retrospective 
data collection 
for each study 
1. Expanded Access IND 
Protocol: Use of Tecovirimat 
(TPOXX®) for Treatment of 
Human Non-Variola 
Orthopoxvirus Infections in 
Adults and Children (United 
States – CDC) 
2. Expanded access protocol 
for the use of tecovirimat for 
the treatment of monkeypox 
infection (Central African 
Republic) 
Ongoing 
Category 3 - Required additional pharmacovigilance activities  
None 
 
 
 
 
Part IV:  Plans for post-authorisation efficacy studies 
In  terms  of  gathering  further  data  through  clinical  trials,  there  are  significant  ethical,  feasibility  and 
scientific issues that preclude the conduct of controlled clinical trials evaluating antiviral efficacy versus 
orthopoxviruses. Therefore, evaluation of tecovirimat efficacy within the context of naturally occurring 
disease remains the only possibility for conducting a controlled clinical trial.  
 SIGA has agreements in place to supply tecovirimat to Mpox studies that are enrolling new patients.  
The MEURI study is an adaptive multiregional international global randomized, placebo-controlled trial 
that  will  provide  tecovirimat  access  to  patients  with  mpox  during  the  multi-country  outbreak  while 
clinical trials cannot be immediately initiated, maintaining ethics and regulatory oversight; and ensuring 
data  monitoring,  reporting  and  sharing.  The  primary  objective  is  to  evaluate  the  clinical  efficacy,  as 
assessed by time to lesion resolution, of treatment plus SOC versus placebo plus SOC for patients with 
monkeypox. The secondary objectives are to evaluate the clinical efficacy of treatment plus SOC versus 
placebo plus SOC in patients with monkeypox as assessed by mortality, clinical severity, and duration 
of  symptoms  and  the  safety  of  treatment  plus  SOC  relative  to  placebo  plus  SOC  in  patients  with 
monkeypox.  Data  on  the  missing  information  Use  in  pregnancy  and  lactation  and  Use  in 
immunocompromised subjects might also be collected.  
The  A5418  (STOMP)  study  is  a  randomized,  placebo-controlled,  double-blind  study  to  establish  the 
efficacy  of  tecovirimat  for  the  treatment  of  people  with  laboratory-confirmed  or  presumptive  HMPXV 
disease. The primary outcome measure will be the time to clinical resolution, defined as the first day on 
which all skin lesions are scabbed, desquamated or healed, and visible mucosal lesions are healed [Time 
Frame: Up to day 29 ]. It is being conducted by the U.S. National Institute of Health (NIH) will most 
likely be the one completed first. Data on the missing information Use in pregnancy and lactation and 
Use in immunocompromised subjects might also be collected.  
Table Part IV.1: Planned and on-going post-authorisation efficacy studies that are conditions of the 
marketing authorisation or that are specific obligations.   
Study  
Status  
Summary of 
objectives 
Efficacy uncertainties 
addressed 
Milestones 
Due Date 
Efficacy studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation  
None 
 Efficacy studies which are Specific Obligations in the context of a conditional marketing 
authorisation or a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances 
Long term efficacy and safety 
Use in pregnancy and 
lactation 
Use in immunocompromised 
subjects 
Annually (with annual re-
assessment) and no later than 12 
months after the last administration 
of tecovirimat or last data collection 
in case of retrospective data 
collection for each study 
To evaluate the 
clinical efficacy 
and monitor the 
safety of 
Tecovirimat in 
the treatment of 
the Mpox viral 
infections in the 
MEURI and 
STOMP studies 
In order to ensure 
adequate monitoring 
of safety and efficacy 
of Tecovirimat in the 
treatment of the 
Smallpox, Mpox, 
Cowpox viral 
infections and 
complications due to 
replication of vaccinia 
virus following 
vaccination against 
smallpox in adults 
and children with 
body weight at least 
13 kg, the MAH shall 
provide yearly 
updates on any new 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information 
concerning the safety 
and efficacy of 
Tecovirimat, which is 
currently satisfied by 
providing timely 
results from studies: 
3. MEURI - 
Emergency use 
protocol for 
tecovirimat for 
monkeypox under 
MEURI framework 
(World Health 
Organization) 
4. A5418 / STOMP - 
Study of Tecovirimat 
for Human 
Monkeypox Virus 
(STOMP) (United 
States – NIH) 
Ongoing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part V:  Risk minimisation measures (including evaluation of 
the effectiveness of risk minimisation activities) 
Risk Minimisation Plan  
V.1. Routine Risk Minimisation Measures 
Table Part V.1:  Description of routine risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation activities  
Use in pregnancy and 
Routine risk communication: 
lactation 
SmPC section 4.6  
PL section 2 
Routine  risk  minimisation  activities  recommending  specific  clinical 
measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Legal  status:    The  product  will  not  be  available  in  the  typical 
pharmaceutical commercial stream, but rather will be sold to governments 
in order to be stockpiled in case of specific need (either singular cases or 
a specific outbreak of orthopoxvirus).  When a case, or cases, occur, the 
government  will  send  the  product  specifically  to  where  it  is  needed  for 
dispensing by medical professionals.   
Use 
in 
Routine risk communication:  
immunocompromised 
subjects 
SmPC section 4.4 
PL section 2 
Routine  risk  minimisation  activities  recommending  specific  clinical 
measures to address the risk:  
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Legal status:  The product will not be available in the typical pharmaceutical 
commercial stream, but rather will be sold to governments in order to be 
stockpiled  in  case  of  specific  need  (either  singular  cases  or  a  specific 
outbreak of orthopoxvirus).  When a case, or cases, occur, the government 
will  send  the  product  specifically  to  where  it  is  needed  for  dispensing  by 
medical professionals.   
V.2. Additional Risk Minimisation Measures  
Routine risk minimisation activities as described in Part V.1 are sufficient to manage the safety concerns 
of the medicinal product. 
V.3  Summary of risk minimisation measures  
Table Part V.3:  Summary table of pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation activities by safety 
concern 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures  Pharmacovigilance activities 
Use in pregnancy 
Routine risk minimisation 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
and lactation 
measures: 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
SmPC section 4.6 
PL section 2 
Legal status 
signal detection: 
Targeted follow-up form 
Communication to prescribers to be 
included with the packaging to advise on 
Additional risk minimisation 
the reporting and forwarding of all 
measures: 
None 
exposed individuals from the ‘missing 
information’ patient groups. 
Summary case report information for 
any cases involving pregnancy and 
lactation or immunocompromised 
patients in the following indications: 
monkeypox, cowpox and the treatment 
of complications due to replication of 
vaccinia virus following vaccination 
against smallpox 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Observational smallpox field study 
(SIGA-246-021) 
In order to ensure adequate monitoring 
of safety and efficacy of Tecovirimat in 
the treatment of the Smallpox, Mpox, 
Cowpox viral infections and 
complications due to replication of 
vaccinia virus following vaccination 
against smallpox in adults and children 
with body weight at least 13 kg, the 
MAH shall provide yearly updates on any 
new information concerning the safety 
and efficacy of Tecovirimat, which is 
currently satisfied by providing timely 
results from studies: 
1. Expanded Access IND Protocol: Use of 
Tecovirimat (TPOXX®) for Treatment of 
Human Non-Variola Orthopoxvirus 
Infections in Adults and Children (United 
States – CDC) 
2. Expanded access protocol for the use 
of tecovirimat for the treatment of 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures  Pharmacovigilance activities 
monkeypox infection (Central African 
Republic 
Use in 
 Routine risk minimisation 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
immunocompromised 
measures: 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
subjects 
SmPC section 4.4 
PL section 2 
Legal status 
signal detection: 
Targeted follow-up form 
Communication to prescribers to be 
included with the packaging to advise on 
Additional risk minimisation 
the reporting and forwarding of all 
measures: 
None 
exposed individuals from the ‘missing 
information’ patient groups. 
Summary case report information for 
any cases involving pregnancy and 
lactation or immunocompromised 
patients in the following indications: 
monkeypox, cowpox and the treatment 
of complications due to replication of 
vaccinia virus following vaccination 
against smallpox 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Observational smallpox field study 
(SIGA-246-021) 
In order to ensure adequate monitoring 
of safety and efficacy of Tecovirimat in 
the treatment of the Smallpox, Mpox, 
Cowpox viral infections and complications 
due to replication of vaccinia virus 
following vaccination against smallpox in 
adults and children with body weight at 
least 13 kg, the MAH shall provide yearly 
updates on any new information 
concerning the safety and efficacy of 
Tecovirimat, which is currently satisfied 
by providing timely results from studies: 
1. Expanded Access IND Protocol: Use of 
Tecovirimat (TPOXX®) for Treatment of 
Human Non-Variola Orthopoxvirus 
Infections in Adults and Children (United 
States – CDC) 
2. Expanded access protocol for the use 
of tecovirimat for the treatment of 
monkeypox infection (Central African 
Republic) 
 
Part VI:  Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Tecovirimat SIGA 
(tecovirimat monohydrate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tecovirimat SIGA. The RMP details important 
risks of Tecovirimat SIGA, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Tecovirimat SIGA’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Tecovirimat SIGA's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Tecovirimat SIGA should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Tecovirimat  SIGA  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Tecovirimat-SIGA's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Tecovirimat-SIGA is authorised for the treatment of viral infections (cowpox, monkeypox, smallpox) and 
to treat complications due to replication of vaccinia virus following vaccination against smallpox in adults 
and children with body weight at least 13 kg (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains tecovirimat 
monohydrate as the active substance and it is given by mouth as hard capsules.  
Further information about the evaluation of Tecovirimat SIGA’s benefits can be found in Tecovirimat-
SIGA’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage <link to the EPAR summary landing page>. 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Tecovirimat SIGA, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Tecovirimat SIGA's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can be  taken  as necessary.  
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Tecovirimat SIGA is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Tecovirimat SIGA are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of 
a link with the use of Tecovirimat SIGA. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the 
use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
None  
Missing information 
Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Use in immunocompromised patients 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Missing information No. 1:  Use in pregnancy and lactation   
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.6  
PL section 2 
Legal status 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional  pharmacovigilance 
In order to ensure adequate monitoring of safety and efficacy of 
activities 
Tecovirimat  in  the  treatment  of  the  Smallpox,  Mpox,  Cowpox 
viral infections and complications due to replication of vaccinia 
virus  following  vaccination  against  smallpox  in  adults  and 
children with body weight at least 13 kg, the MAH shall provide 
yearly  updates  on  any  new  information  concerning  the  safety 
and  efficacy  of  Tecovirimat,  which  is  currently  satisfied  by 
providing timely results from studies: 
1. Expanded Access IND Protocol: Use of Tecovirimat (TPOXX®) 
for Treatment of Human Non-Variola Orthopoxvirus Infections in 
Adults and Children (United States – CDC) 
2.  Expanded  access  protocol  for  the  use of  tecovirimat  for  the 
treatment of monkeypox infection (Central African Republic) 
Missing information No. 2:  Use in immunocompromised patients 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4  
PL section 2 
Legal status 
Additional  pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
activities 
SIGA-246-021, A Phase 4, Observational Field Study to Evaluate 
the Safety and Clinical Benefit in TPOXX® (Tecovirimat)-Treated 
Patients  Following  Exposure  to  Variola  Virus  and  Clinical 
Diagnosis of Smallpox Disease. 
In order to ensure adequate monitoring of safety and efficacy of 
Tecovirimat  in  the  treatment  of  the  Smallpox,  Mpox,  Cowpox 
viral  infections  and  complications  due  to  replication  of  vaccinia 
virus  following  vaccination  against  smallpox  in  adults  and 
children with body weight at least 13 kg, the MAH shall provide 
yearly updates on any new information concerning the safety and 
efficacy of Tecovirimat, which is currently satisfied by providing 
timely results from studies: 
1. Expanded Access IND Protocol: Use of Tecovirimat (TPOXX®) 
for Treatment of Human Non-Variola Orthopoxvirus Infections in 
Adults and Children (United States – CDC) 
2.  Expanded  access  protocol  for  the  use of  tecovirimat  for  the 
treatment of monkeypox infection (Central African Republic) 
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
Study short name: SIGA-246-021, A Phase 4, Observational Field Study to Evaluate the Safety and 
Clinical  Benefit  in  TPOXX®  (Tecovirimat)-Treated  Patients  Following  Exposure  to  Variola  Virus  and 
Clinical Diagnosis of Smallpox Disease 
Purpose  of  the  study:  Observational  field  study  to  further  characterise  the  efficacy  and  safety  of 
tecovirimat in the treatment of smallpox. 
In order to ensure adequate monitoring of safety and efficacy of  Tecovirimat in the treatment of the 
Smallpox, Mpox, Cowpox viral infections and complications due to replication of vaccinia virus following 
vaccination  against  smallpox  in  adults  and  children  with  body  weight  at  least  13  kg,  the  MAH  shall 
provide yearly updates on any new information concerning the safety and efficacy of Tecovirimat, which 
is currently satisfied by providing timely results from studies.     
1. Expanded Access IND Protocol: Use of Tecovirimat (TPOXX®) for Treatment of Human Non-Variola 
Orthopoxvirus Infections in Adults and Children  
Purpose of the study: To provide stockpiled tecovirimat for treatment of non-variola orthopoxvirus 
infections (e.g., mpox, vaccinia, or other human virus infection identified as an orthopoxvirus) and 
secondary treatment of complications from replication-competent vaccinia vaccine in adults and 
 
 
children. Conducted by U.S. CDC. 
2. Expanded access protocol for the use of tecovirimat for the treatment of monkeypox infection Purpose 
of  the  study:  To  provide  access  to  tecovirimat  to  patients  with  monkeypox  as  well  as  to  generate 
information about its safety and effectiveness that could help inform future use and clinical development. 
3.  MEURI - Emergency use protocol for tecovirimat for monkeypox under MEURI framework  
Purpose of the study: To provide access to tecovirimat to patients with mpox during the multi-country 
outbreak while clinical trials cannot be immediately initiated, maintaining ethics and regulatory 
oversight; and ensuring data monitoring, reporting and sharing. Data on the missing information Use 
in pregnancy and lactation and Use in immunocompromised subjects might also be collected. 
4.  A5418 / STOMP - Study of Tecovirimat for Human Monkeypox Virus (STOMP) 
Purpose of the study: To establish the efficacy of tecovirimat for the treatment of people with 
laboratory-confirmed or presumptive HMPXV disease. Data on the missing information Use in 
pregnancy and lactation and Use in immunocompromised subjects might also be collected. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no other studies in post-authorisation development plan. 
Part VII:  Annexes 
Annex 1 – EudraVigilance Interface 
Annex 2 – Tabulated summary of planned, ongoing, and completed pharmacovigilance study 
programme 
Annex 3 - Protocols for proposed, on-going and completed studies in the pharmacovigilance 
plan 
Annex 4 – Specific adverse drug reaction follow-up forms 
Annex 5 - Protocols for proposed and on-going studies in RMP part IV 
Annex 6 - Details of proposed additional risk minimisation activities (if applicable) 
Annex 7 - Other supporting data (including referenced material) 
Annex 8 – Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
 
 
Annex 1 – EudraVigilance Interface  
Not applicable. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Annex  2  –  Tabulated  summary  of  planned,  ongoing,  and  completed 
pharmacovigilance study programme  
Table 1 Annex II: Planned and on-going studies 
Study 
Summary 
objectives 
of 
Safety 
addressed 
concerns 
Protocol link 
Milestones 
Observational field study  
to evaluate safety and 
clinical benefit in 
tecovirimat-treated 
patients following 
exposure to variola virus 
and clinical diagnosis of 
smallpox disease. 
SIGA-246-021 (A Phase 
4, Observational Field 
Study to Evaluate the 
Safety and Clinical 
Benefit in TPOXX® 
(Tecovirimat)-Treated 
Patients Following 
Exposure to Variola 
Virus and Clinical 
Diagnosis of Smallpox 
Disease) 
Category 2  
Missing information:   
Annex 3 
Use in pregnancy and 
lactation 
Use in 
immunocompromised 
subjects 
Final report:  To 
be provided in 
annual re-
assessment and 
no later than 12 
months after the 
last 
administration of 
tecovirimat for 
the treatment of 
smallpox or last 
data collection in 
case of 
retrospective 
data collection”. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information:  
•  Use in pregnancy 
and lactation 
•  Use in 
immunocompromise
d subjects 
To monitor the safety 
and efficacy of 
Tecovirimat in the 
treatment of the 
Smallpox, Mpox, Cowpox 
viral infections and 
complications due to 
replication of vaccinia 
virus in the Expanded 
Access for Treatment of 
Human Non-Variola 
Orthopoxvirus and Mpox 
in the expanded access 
for the treatment of 
monkeypox infection. 
Annually (with 
annual re-
assessment) 
and no later 
than 12 months 
after the last 
administration 
of tecovirimat or 
last data 
collection in 
case of 
retrospective 
data collection 
for each study 
In order to ensure 
adequate monitoring of 
safety and efficacy of 
Tecovirimat in the 
treatment of the 
Smallpox, Mpox, Cowpox 
viral infections and 
complications due to 
replication of vaccinia 
virus following 
vaccination against 
smallpox in adults and 
children with body weight 
at least 13 kg, the MAH 
shall provide yearly 
updates on any new 
information concerning 
the safety and efficacy of 
Tecovirimat, which is 
currently satisfied by 
providing timely results 
from studiesIn order to 
ensure adequate 
monitoring of safety of 
Tecovirimat in the 
treatment of the 
Smallpox, Mpox, Cowpox 
viral infections and 
complications due to 
replication of vaccinia 
virus following 
vaccination against 
smallpox in adults and 
children, the MAH shall 
provide yearly updates 
on any new information 
concerning the safety of 
Tecovirimat, which is 
currently satisfied by 
providing timely results 
from studies: 
1.  Expanded Access IND 
Protocol: Use of 
Tecovirimat 
(TPOXX®) for 
Treatment of Human 
Non-Variola 
Orthopoxvirus 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Summary 
objectives 
of 
Safety 
addressed 
concerns 
Protocol link 
Milestones 
Infections in Adults 
and Children (United 
States – CDC) 
2.  Expanded access 
protocol for the use 
of tecovirimat for the 
treatment of 
monkeypox infection 
(Central African 
Republic) 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex  3  -  Protocols  for  proposed,  on-going  and  completed  studies  in  the 
pharmacovigilance plan  
•  SIGA-246-021 protocol Version 1.0 dated 24 May  
•  CDC Expanded Access 
•  CAR Expanded Access 
As SIGA is not the sponsor of the mpox trials and remains under confidentiality with individual sponsors, 
we cannot disclose trial protocols. The links to the protocols are as follows: 
•  https://www.cdc.gov/poxvirus/monkeypox/clinicians/obtaining-tecovirimat.html#Tecovirimat-
IND-Protocol 
•  https://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN43307947  
The CDC Expanded Access protocol is publicly available (attached). 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 4 - Specific adverse drug reaction follow-up forms 
•  Use in pregnancy and lactation 
•  Use in immunocompromised subjects 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 5 - Protocols for proposed and on-going studies in RMP part IV 
• 
Emergency use protocol for tecovirimat for monkeypox under MEURI framework (World Health 
Organization) 
•  STOMP (stomptpoxx.org)  
As SIGA is not the sponsor of the mpox trials and remains under confidentiality with individual sponsors, 
we cannot disclose trial protocols. The links to the protocols are as follows:  
• 
https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/core-protocol---an-international-adaptive-multi-
country-randomized-placebo-controlled--double-blinded-trial-of-the-safety-and-efficacy-of-
treatments-for-patients-with-monkeypox-virus-disease 
•  https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT05534984?cond=monkeypox&draw=2&rank=8 
The MEURI Expanded Access trial protocol is publicly available (attached). 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex  6  -  Details  of  proposed  additional  risk  minimisation  activities 
(if applicable) 
Not applicable – no additional risk minimisation activities are proposed. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 7 - Other supporting data (including referenced material) 
A Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blinded Trial of the Safety and Efficacy of Tecovirimat for the 
Treatment 
of 
Human 
Monkeypox 
Virus 
Disease. 
Available 
at: 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT05534984?cond=monkeypox&draw=2&rank=8 
Baker R., Bray M and Huggins J.W.  2003.  Potential antiviral therapeutics for smallpox, monkeypox and 
other orthopoxvirus infections.  Antiviral Research.  Volume 57, Issues 1–2, Pages 13-23.  
Baxby D., Bennett M., and Getty B.  1994.  Human Cowpox 1969-93:  A Review Based on 54 Cases.  
Br J Dermatol.  131:598-607.  
Bray M. and Roy C.J.  2004.  Antiviral Prophylaxis of Smallpox.  J Antimicrob.  Chemo.  54:1-5.  
CDC  Morbidity 
and  Mortality  Weekly  Report/Vaccination. 
2007. 
  Available 
at:  
http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm5619a4.htm  
CDC Information for Healthcare Providers: Tecovirimat (TPOXX) for Treatment of Mpox. Available at: 
https://www.cdc.gov/poxvirus/monkeypox/clinicians/obtaining-tecovirimat.html#Tecovirimat-IND-
Protocol  
CORE  PROTOCOL  -  An  international  adaptive  multi-country  randomized,placebo-controlled,  double-
blinded trial of the safety and efficacy of treatments for patients with monkeypox virus disease. Available 
at:  https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/core-protocol---an-international-adaptive-multi-country-
randomized-placebo-controlled--double-blinded-trial-of-the-safety-and-efficacy-of-treatments-for-
patients-with-monkeypox-virus-disease  
Clinical  management 
and 
infection  prevention 
and 
control  guideline.  Available 
at: 
https://www.who.int/teams/health-care-readiness/clinical-management-of-
monkeypox#:~:text=Emergency%20use%20protocol%20for%20tecovirimat%20for%20monkeypox%
20under,%20Weight-based%20dosing.%20%207%20more%20rows%20 
Cowpox Epidemiology in Europe (Post-1993, with focus on children) – Summary of cases, 2009.  
ECDC, Communicable disease threats to public health in the European Union - Annual Epidemiological 
Report,  2018.    Available  at:  https://ecdc.europa.eu/en/publications-data/communicable-disease-
threats-public-health-eu-2018 
Fenner F., Henderson D.A., Arita I., et al.  1988.  Smallpox and Its Eradication.  Geneva:  World Health 
Organization, c1988.  1-1421.  
ISRCTN43307947 Expanded access protocol for the use of tecovirimat for the treatment of monkeypox 
infection. Available at: https://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN43307947  
Lalezari  J.P.,  Stagg  R.J.,  Kuppermann  B.D.,  et  al.    1997.    Intravenous  Cidofovir  for  Peripheral 
Cytomegalovirus  Retinitis  in  Patients  With  AIDS.    A  Randomized,  Controlled  Trial.    Ann.Intern.Med.  
126(4):257-263. 
LeDuc  J.W.,  Damon  I.,  Relman  D.A.,  et  al.    2002.    Smallpox  Research  Activities:    U.S.  Interagency 
Collaboration, 2001.  Emerg. Infect.  Dis.  8:743-745.  
Levin  NA. 
  2009. 
  eMedicine  SpecialtieSCowpox 
Infection,  Human. 
  Available  at:  
http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1131886-overview  
Melamed S., Israely T. and Paran N.  2018.  Challenges and Achievements in Prevention and Treatment 
of Smallpox.  Vaccines, 6, 8.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Promed-mail.    2009.    Cowpox,  Rodents,  Human  (06):    Europe  Background.    Available  at:  
https://promedmail.org/promed-post/?id=163099 
Quenelle D.C., Collins D.J. and Kern E.R.  2003.  Efficacy of Multiple- or Single-Dose Cidofovir Against 
Vaccinia and Cowpox Virus Infections in Mice.  Antimicrob.  Agents Chemother.  47(10):3275-3280. 
Reeves P.M., Bommarius B., Lebeis S., McNulty S., Christensen J., Swimm A., Chahroudi A., Chavan R., 
Feinberg M.B., Veach D., Bornmann W., Sherman M., Kalman D.  2005.  Disabling poxvirus pathogenesis 
by inhibition of Abl-family tyrosine kinases.  Nat Med.  2005 Jul;11(7):731-9. 
Reynolds M.G., Yorita K.L., Kuehnert M.J., et al.  2006.  Clinical Manisfestations of Human Monkeypox 
Influenced by Route of Infection.  J Infect.  Dis.  194:773-80. 
Sidwell  R.W.  and  Smee  D.F.    2003.    Viruses  of  the  Bunya-  and  Togaviridae  families:    potential  as 
bioterrorism agents and means of control.  Antiviral Research.  Volume 57, Issues 1–2, Pages 101-111.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 8 – Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Version  Approval date 
Change 
Procedure 
1.0 
06 January 2022 
Initial version 
EMEA/H/C/005248/IB/0001 
1.1 
20 July 2022 
The  title  page  has  been  updated  to  include  details  of  the 
EMEA/H/C/005248/IB/0001 
has  been  updated  to  remove  reference  to  submission  of 
currently approved RMP. The RMP Part III.1 and Annex 4 
targeted 
follow-up 
forms 
for 
pregnancy 
and 
immunocompromised  subjects  within  2  months  after  MA 
approval  since  the  forms  were  provided  in  the  previous 
RMP  update.  Additionally,  in  RMP  Part  III.1,  reference  to 
submission  of  communication  to  prescribers  within  2 
months  after  MA  approval  has  also  been  removed.  A 
communication has been prepared and submitted with this 
RMP  update  as  requested.  Annex  8  has  been  updated  to 
include a list of all significant changes to the RMP over time. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
