ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Tegsedi 284 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each ml contains 189 mg inotersen (as inotersen sodium). 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 284 mg inotersen (as inotersen sodium) in 1.5 mL of solution. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Solution for injection (injection). 
Clear, colourless to pale yellow solution (pH 7.5 – 8.8). 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Tegsedi is indicated for the treatment of stage 1 or stage 2 polyneuropathy in adult patients with 
hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis (hATTR). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
treatment of patients with hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis. 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 284 mg inotersen by subcutaneous injection. Doses should be administered 
once every week. For consistency of dosing, patients should be instructed to receive the injection on 
the same day every week.  
Dose adjustment in case of reduction in platelet count 
Inotersen is associated with reductions in platelet count, which may result in thrombocytopenia. 
Dosing should be adjusted according to laboratory values as follows: 
Table 1 . Inotersen monitoring and dosing recommendations according to platelet count 
Platelet count (x 109/L) 
Monitoring frequency 
Dosing 
> 100 
Every 2 weeks 
≥ 75 to < 100* 
Every week 
Weekly dosing should be 
continued.  
Dosing frequency should be 
reduced to 284 mg every  
2 weeks. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
< 75* 
< 50‡† 
< 25† 
Twice weekly until 3 
successive values above 75 
then weekly monitoring.  
Twice weekly until 3 
successive values above 75 
then weekly monitoring.  
More frequent monitoring 
should be considered if 
additional risk factors for 
bleeding are present. 
Daily until 2 successive values 
above 25. Then  twice weekly 
monitoring until 3 successive 
values above 75. Then weekly 
monitoring until stable. 
Dosing should be paused until 
3 successive values > 100.  
On reinitiation of treatment 
dose frequency should be 
reduced to 284 mg every 2 
weeks. 
Dosing should be paused until 
3 successive values > 100. On 
reinitiation of treatment dose 
frequency should be reduced to 
284 mg every 2 weeks. 
Corticosteroids should be 
considered if additional risk 
factors for bleeding are present.  
Treatment should be 
discontinued.  
Corticosteroids recommended. 
* If the subsequent test confirms the initial test result, then monitoring frequency and dosing should be 
adjusted as recommended in the table. 
‡ Additional risk factors for bleeding include age > 60 years, receiving anticoagulant or antiplatelet 
medicinal products, and /or prior history of major bleeding events. 
† It is strongly recommended that, unless corticosteroids are contraindicated, the patient receives 
glucocorticoid therapy to reverse the platelet decline. Patients who discontinue therapy with inotersen 
due to platelet counts below 25 x 109/L should not reinitiate therapy.  
Missed doses 
If a dose of inotersen is missed, then the next dose should be administered as soon as possible, unless 
the next scheduled dose is within two days, in which case the missed dose should be skipped and the 
next dose administered as scheduled. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in patients aged 65 years and over (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (see section 5.2). 
Inotersen should not be used in patients with a urine protein to creatinine ratio (UPCR) 
≥ 113 mg/mmol (1 g/g) or estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 45 ml/min/1.73 m2 (see 
section 4.3).  
Because of the risk of glomerulonephritis and possible renal function decline, UPCR and eGFR should 
be monitored during treatment with inotersen (see section 4.4). If acute glomerulonephritis is 
confirmed, permanent discontinuation of the treatment should be considered. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see section 
5.2). Inotersen must not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Patients undergoing liver transplant  
Inotersen has not been evaluated in patients undergoing liver transplant. It is, therefore, recommended 
that inotersen should be discontinued in subjects undergoing liver transplantation.  
Paediatric population 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of inotersen in children and adolescents below 18 years of age have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
Subcutaneous use only.  Each pre-filled syringe is for one-time use only.   
The first injection administered by the patient or caregiver should be performed under the guidance of 
an appropriately qualified health care professional. Patients and/or caregivers should be trained in the 
subcutaneous administration of Tegsedi. 
Sites for injection include the abdomen, upper thigh region, or outer area of the upper arm. It is 
important to rotate sites for injection. If injected in the upper arm, the injection should be administered 
by another person. Injection should be avoided at the waistline and other sites where pressure or 
rubbing from clothing may occur. Tegsedi should not be injected into areas of skin disease or injury. 
Tattoos and scars should also be avoided. 
The pre-filled syringe should be allowed to reach room temperature prior to injection. It should be 
removed from refrigerated storage at least 30 minutes before use. Other warming methods should not 
be used. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Platelet count < 100 x 109/L prior to treatment. 
Urine protein to creatinine ratio (UPCR) ≥ 113 mg/mmol (1 g/g) prior to treatment. 
Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 45 ml/min/1.73 m2 . 
Severe hepatic impairment. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Thrombocytopenia 
Inotersen is associated with reductions in platelet count, which may result in thrombocytopenia at any 
time during treatment (see section 4.8). Platelet count should be monitored every 2 weeks during the 
entire course of treatment with inotersen and for 8 weeks following discontinuation of treatment. 
Recommendations for adjustments to monitoring frequency and inotersen dosing are specified in 
Table 1 (see section 4.2).  
Patients should be instructed to report to their physician immediately if they experience any signs of 
unusual or prolonged bleeding (e.g. petechia, spontaneous bruising, subconjunctival bleeding, 
nosebleeds, bleeding from the gums, blood in urine or stools, bleeding in the whites of eyes), neck 
stiffness or atypical severe headache because these symptoms may be caused by bleeding in the brain. 
Special caution should be used in elderly patients, in patients taking antithrombotic medicinal 
products, antiplatelet medicinal products, or medicinal products that may lower platelet count (see 
section 4.5), and in patients with prior history of major bleeding events. 
Glomerulonephritis/ renal function decline 
Glomerulonephritis has occurred in patients treated with inotersen (see section 4.8). Renal function 
decline has also been observed in a number of subjects without signs of glomerulonephritis (see 
section 4.8). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UPCR and eGFR should be monitored every 3 months or more frequently, as clinically indicated, 
based on history of chronic kidney disease and/or renal amyloidosis. UPCR and eGFR should be 
monitored for 8 weeks following discontinuation of treatment. Patients with UPCR more than or equal 
to twice the upper limit of normal, or eGFR < 60 ml/min, which is confirmed on repeat testing and in 
the absence of an alternative explanation, should be monitored every 4 weeks.  
In the case of a decrease in eGFR > 30%, in the absence of an alternative explanation, pausing of 
inotersen dosing should be considered pending further evaluation of the cause. 
In the case of UPCR ≥ 2 g/g (226 mg/mmol), which is confirmed on repeat testing, dosing of inotersen 
should be paused while further evaluation for acute glomerulonephritis is performed. Inotersen should 
permanently be discontinued if acute glomerulonephritis is confirmed. If glomerulonephritis is 
excluded, dosing may be resumed if clinically indicated and following improvement of renal function 
(see section 4.3). 
Early initiation of immunosuppressive therapy should be considered if a diagnosis of 
glomerulonephritis is confirmed. 
Caution should be used with nephrotoxic medicinal products and other medicinal products that may 
impair renal function (see section 4.5).  
Vitamin A deficiency 
Based on the mechanism of action, inotersen is expected to reduce plasma vitamin A (retinol) below 
normal levels (see section 5.1).  
Plasma vitamin A (retinol) levels below lower limit of normal should be corrected and any ocular 
symptoms or signs of vitamin A deficiency should have resolved prior to initiation of inotersen. 
Patients receiving inotersen should take oral supplementation of approximately 3 000 IU vitamin A 
per day in order to reduce the potential risk of ocular toxicity due to vitamin A deficiency. Referral for 
ophthalmological assessment is recommended if patients develop ocular symptoms consistent with 
vitamin A deficiency, including: reduced night vision or night blindness, persistent dry eyes, eye 
inflammation, corneal inflammation or ulceration, corneal thickening, corneal perforation. 
During the first 60 days of pregnancy, both too high and too low vitamin A levels may be associated 
with an increased risk of foetal malformation. Therefore, pregnancy should be excluded before 
treatment initiation and women of childbearing potential should practise effective contraception (see 
section 4.6). If a woman intends to become pregnant, inotersen and vitamin A supplementation should 
be discontinued and plasma vitamin A levels should be monitored and have returned to normal before 
conception is attempted.  
In the event of an unplanned pregnancy, inotersen should be discontinued. Due to the long half-life of 
inotersen (see section 5.2), a vitamin A deficit may even develop after cessation of treatment. No 
recommendation can be given whether to continue or discontinue vitamin A supplementation during 
the first trimester of an unplanned pregnancy. If vitamin A supplementation is continued, the daily 
dose should not exceed 3 000 IU per day, due to the lack of data supporting higher doses. Thereafter, 
vitamin A supplementation of 3 000 IU per day should be resumed in the second and third trimester if 
plasma retinol levels have not yet returned to normal, because of the increased risk of vitamin A 
deficiency in the third trimester. 
It is not known whether vitamin A supplementation in pregnancy will be sufficient to prevent 
vitamin A deficiency if the pregnant female continues to receive inotersen. However, increasing 
vitamin A supplementation to above 3 000 IU per day during pregnancy is unlikely to correct plasma 
retinol levels due to the mechanism of action of inotersen and may be harmful to the mother and 
foetus.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liver monitoring and drug-induced liver injury 
Elevated transaminases occur commonly in patients treated with inotersen. Serious cases of drug 
induced liver injury (DILI) have also been reported, including cases with a long time to onset (up to 1 
year). Liver function should be assessed before initiating treatment with inotersen. Hepatic enzymes 
should be measured 4 months after initiation of treatment with inotersen and annually thereafter or 
more frequently as clinically indicated. Prompt clinical evaluation and measurement of liver function 
tests should be performed preferably within 72 hours in patients who report symptoms that may 
indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine, or 
jaundice. Dose interruption should be considered until clinical and liver function evaluation is 
performed. If a patient is suspected to have developed liver injury induced by inotersen, inotersen 
should be permanently discontinued. 
Inotersen must not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). 
Liver transplant rejection 
Inotersen was not evaluated in patients undergoing liver transplantation in clinical trials (section 4.2). 
Cases of liver transplant rejection have been reported in patients treated with inotersen. Patients with a 
prior liver transplant should be monitored for signs and symptoms of transplant rejection during 
treatment with inotersen. In these patients liver function tests should be performed monthly. 
Discontinuation of inotersen should be considered in patients who develop liver transplant rejection 
during treatment. 
Precautions prior to initiation of inotersen 
Platelet count, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), urine protein to creatinine ratio (UPCR), 
hepatic enzymes, pregnancy and vitamin A levels should be measured prior to treatment with Tegsedi.  
Transient increases of C-reactive protein (CRP) and platelet levels may occur in some patients after 
initiation of inotersen. This reaction typically resolves spontaneously after a few days of treatment.  
Sodium Content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 1.5 mL, that is to say essentially 
“sodium free”. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Caution should be used with antithrombotic medicinal products, antiplatelet medicinal products, and 
medicinal products that may lower platelet count, for example acetylsalicylic acid, clopidogrel, 
warfarin, heparin, low-molecular weight heparins, Factor Xa inhibitors such as rivaroxaban and 
apixaban, and thrombin inhibitors such as dabigatran (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Caution should be exercised with concomitant use of nephrotoxic medicinal products and other 
medicines that may impair renal function, such as sulfonamides, aldosterone antagonists, anilides, 
natural opium alkaloids and other opioids (see section 4.4). A systematic assessment of co-
administration of inotersen and potentially nephrotoxic medicinal products has not been conducted. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of child-bearing potential 
Inotersen will reduce the plasma levels of vitamin A, which is crucial for normal foetal development. 
It is not known whether vitamin A supplementation will be sufficient to reduce the risk to the foetus 
(see section 4.4). For this reason, pregnancy should be excluded before initiation of inotersen therapy 
and women of child-bearing potential should practise effective contraception. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of inotersen in pregnant women. Animal studies 
are insufficient with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Due to the potential teratogenic 
risk arising from unbalanced vitamin A levels, inotersen should not be used during pregnancy, unless 
the clinical condition of the woman requires treatment with inotersen. Women of child-bearing 
potential have to use effective contraception during treatment with inotersen. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether inotersen/metabolites are excreted in human milk. Available 
pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of inotersen metabolites in milk 
(see section 5.3). A risk to the breastfed newborn/infant cannot be excluded. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Tegsedi 
therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the 
woman. 
Fertility 
There is no information available on the effects of inotersen on human fertility. Animal studies did not 
indicate any impact of inotersen on male or female fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tegsedi has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently observed adverse reactions during treatment with inotersen were events 
associated with injection site reactions (50.9%). Other most commonly reported adverse reactions with 
inotersen were nausea (31.3%), headache (23.2%), pyrexia (19.6%), peripheral oedema (18.8%), chills 
(17.9%), vomiting (15.2%), anaemia (13.4%), thrombocytopenia (13.4%) and platelet count decreased 
(10.7%).  
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Table 2 presents the adverse drug reactions (ADRs) listed by MedDRA system organ class. Within 
each system organ class, the ADRs are ranked by frequency, with the most frequent reactions first. 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse drug reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. In addition, the corresponding frequency category for each ADR is based on the following 
convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); 
rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). 
Table 2. List of adverse reactions in clinical studies and post-marketing sources 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very Common 
Thrombocytopenia 
Anaemia 
Platelet count  
Decreased 
Headache 
Vomiting 
Nausea 
Pyrexia 
Chills 
Injection site 
reactions 
Peripheral oedema 
System Organ 
Class 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Eosinophilia 
Hypersensitivity  
Decreased appetite 
Drug-induced 
liver injury 
Orthostatic 
hypotension 
Hypotension 
Haematoma 
Transaminases  
increased 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Glomerulonephritis 
Proteinuria 
Renal failure 
Acute kidney injury 
Renal impairment 
Influenza like 
illness 
Peripheral swelling 
Injection site 
discolouration 
Contusion 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Injection site reactions  
The most frequently observed events included those associated with injection site reactions (injection 
site pain, erythema, pruritus, swelling, rash, induration, bruising and haemorrhage). These events are 
usually either self-limiting or can be managed using symptomatic treatment. 
Thrombocytopenia  
Inotersen is associated with reductions in platelet count, which may result in thrombocytopenia. In the 
Phase 3, NEURO-TTR trial, platelet count reductions to below normal (140 x 109/L ) were observed in 
54% of patients treated with inotersen and 13% of placebo patients; reductions to below 100 x 109/L 
were observed in 23% of patients treated with inotersen and 2% of the patients receiving placebo; 
confirmed platelet counts of < 75 x 109/L were observed in 10.7% of inotersen-treated patients. Three 
(3%) patients developed platelet counts < 25 x 109/L; one of these patients experienced a fatal 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intracranial haemorrhage. Patients should be monitored for thrombocytopenia during treatment with 
inotersen (see section 4.4). 
Immunogenicity 
In  the  pivotal  Phase  2/3  study,  30.4%  of  patients  treated  with  inotersen  tested  positive  for  anti-drug 
antibodies  following  15  months  of  treatment.  Development  of  anti-drug  antibodies  to  inotersen  was 
characterised by late onset (median onset > 200 days) and low titer (median peak titer of 284 in the 
pivotal study). No effect on the pharmacokinetic properties (maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), area 
under the curve (AUC) or half-life) and efficacy of inotersen was observed in the presence of anti-drug 
antibodies, but patients with anti-drug antibodies had more reactions at the injection site. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In the event of an overdose, supportive medical care should be provided including consulting with a 
healthcare professional and close observation of the clinical status of the patient. 
Platelet and renal function tests should be monitored regularly. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other Nervous System Drugs, ATC code: N07XX15 
Mechanism of action 
Inotersen is a 2′-O-2-methoxyethyl (2′-MOE) phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) 
inhibitor of human transthyretin (TTR) production. The selective binding of inotersen to the TTR 
messenger RNA (mRNA) causes the degradation of both mutant and wild type (normal) TTR mRNA. 
This prevents the synthesis of TTR protein in the liver, resulting in significant reductions in the levels 
of mutated and wild type TTR protein secreted by the liver into the circulation.  
TTR is a carrier protein for retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4) which is the principal carrier of vitamin 
A (retinol). Therefore, reduction in plasma TTR is expected to result in reduction of plasma retinol 
levels to below the lower limit of normal.  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In the pivotal study, a phase 2/3 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to assess the 
efficacy and safety of ISIS 420915 in patients with Familial Amyloid Polyneuropathy (NEURO-TTR 
Study), in the inotersen treatment group, robust reduction in circulating TTR levels was observed 
throughout the 15-month treatment period, with mean percent changes from baseline in serum TTR 
ranging from 68.41% to 74.03% (median range: 74.64% to 78.98%) from Week 13 to Week 65 
(Figure 1). In the placebo group, mean serum TTR concentration decreased by 8.50% at Week 3 and 
then remained fairly constant throughout the treatment period. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transthyretin (TTR)  
Least Squares Mean (LSM) 
Standard Error (SE) 
Figure 1 
Percent change from baseline in serum TTR over time 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The NEURO-TTR multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was comprised of 172 treated 
patients with hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis with polyneuropathy (hATTR-PN). The disease 
hATTR-PN is classified into 3 stages such that i) Stage 1 patients do not require assistance with 
ambulation, ii) Stage 2 patients do require assistance with ambulation, and iii) Stage 3 patients are 
bound to wheelchair. Subjects with Stage 1 and Stage 2 hATTR-PN and a Neuropathy Impairment 
Score (NIS) ≥ 10 and ≤ 130 were recruited in the pivotal NEURO-TTR study. The study evaluated 
284 mg inotersen administered as one subcutaneous injection once per week, for 65 weeks of 
treatment. Patients were randomised 2:1 to receive either inotersen or placebo. The primary efficacy 
endpoints were the change from baseline to Week 66 in the modified Neuropathy Impairment Score + 
7 tests (mNIS+7) composite score and in the Norfolk Quality of Life – Diabetic Neuropathy (QoL-
DN) questionnaire total score. Patients were stratified for stage of disease (Stage 1 versus Stage 2), 
TTR mutation (V30M versus non-V30M) and previous treatment with either tafamidis or diflunisal 
(yes versus no). Baseline demographic and disease characteristics are shown in Table 3. 
Table 3. Baseline demographics 
Age (years), mean (SD) 
Age 65 years and older, n (%)  
Male, n (%) 
mNIS+7, mean (SD) 
Norfolk QoL-DN, mean (SD) 
Disease stage, n (%)  
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
V30M TTR mutation1, n (%)  
Yes 
No 
Previous treatment with tafamidis or diflunisal1, n 
(%)  
Yes 
No 
hATTR-CM2, n (%) 
10 
Placebo 
(N = 60) 
59,5 (14,05) 
26 (43,3) 
41 (68,3) 
74,75 (39,003) 
48,68 (26,746) 
Inotersen 
(N = 112) 
59,0 (12,53) 
48 (42,9) 
77 (68,8) 
79,16 (36,958) 
48,22 (27,503) 
42 (70,0) 
18 (30,0) 
33 (55,0) 
27 (45,0) 
36 (60,0) 
24 (40,0) 
33 (55,0) 
74 (66,1) 
38 (33,9) 
56 (50,0) 
56 (50,0) 
63 (56,3) 
49 (43,8) 
75 (66,4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hATTR-PN Disease Duration3 (months) 
mean (SD) 
hATTR-CM Disease Duration3 (months) 
64,0 (52,34) 
63,9 (53,16) 
mean (SD) 
1   Based on clinical database. 
2   Defined as all patients with a diagnosis of hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis with 
34,1 (29,33) 
44,7 (58,00) 
cardiomyopathy (hATTR-CM) at study entry or left ventricular wall thickness >1.3 cm on 
echocardiogram without a known history of persistent hypertension. 
3   Duration from symptom onset to informed consent date.  
  modified Neuropathy Impairment Score (mNIS) 
  Quality of Life-Diabetic Neuropathy (QoL-DN) 
  hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis-polyneuropathy (hATTR-PN) 
  Standard deviation (SD) 
The changes from baseline in both primary endpoints (mNIS+7 and Norfolk QoL-DN) demonstrated 
statistically significant benefit in favour of inotersen treatment at Week 66 (Table 4). Results across 
multiple disease characteristics [TTR mutation (V30M, non-V30M)], disease stage (Stage 1, Stage 2), 
previous treatment with tafamidis or diflunisal (yes, no), presence of hATTR-CM (yes, no) at Week 66 
showed statistically significant benefit in all subgroups based on mNIS+7 composite score and all but 
one of these subgroups (CM-Echo Set; p=0.067) based on Norfolk QoL-DN total score (Table 5). 
Furthermore, results across the components of mNIS+7 and domains of Norfolk QoL-DN composite 
scores were consistent with the primary endpoint analysis, showing benefit in motor, sensory and 
autonomic neuropathies (Figure 2). 
Table 4. Primary endpoint analysis mNIS+7 and Norfolk QoL-DN 
Baseline 
   n 
   Mean (SD) 
Week 66 Change 
   n 
   LSM (SE) 
   95% CI 
   Difference in LSM 
     (Tegsedi – Placebo) 
        95% CI 
        P-value 
mNIS+7 
Norfolk-QOL-DN 
Placebo 
(N = 60) 
Inotersen 
(N = 112) 
Placebo 
(N = 60) 
Inotersen 
(N = 112) 
60 
74,75 (39,003) 
112 
79,165 (36,958) 
59 
48,68 (26,746) 
111 
48,22 (27,503) 
60 
25,43 (3,225) 
19,11, 31,75 
112 
10,54 (2,397) 
15,85, 15,24 
59 
12,94 (2,840) 
7,38, 18,51 
 111 
4,38 (2,175) 
0,11, 8,64 
-14,89 
-22,55 ; -7,22 
< 0,001 
-8,56 
-15,42 ; -1,71 
0,015 
Quality of Life-Diabetic Neuropathy (QoL-DN) 
Standard deviation (SD) 
Least squares mean (LSM) 
Table 5. Subgroup analysis of mNIS+7 and Norfolk QoL-DN 
mNIS+7 
Change from Baseline 
Inotersen – Placebo 
Norfolk QOL-DN 
Change from Baseline 
Inotersen – Placebo 
Subgroup 
N 
 (Placebo, 
Inotersen) 
LSM 
Difference 
(SE) 
V30M 
32, 58 
-13,52 
(3,795) 
n 
(Placebo, 
Inotersen) 
LSM 
Difference 
(SE) 
P-value 
32, 58 
-8,14 
(3,998) 
p = 0,042 
P-value 
Week 66 
p < 0,001 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-V30 
28, 54 
Stage I 
Disease 
Stage II 
Disease 
Previous  
use of  
stabilisers 
Treatment 
naïve 
CM-Echo 
Set 
Non-CM-
Echo Set 
39, 74 
21, 38 
33, 61 
27, 51 
33, 75 
27, 37 
-19,06 
(5,334) 
-12,13 
(3,838) 
-24,79 
(5,601) 
-18,04 
(4,591) 
-14,87 
(4,377) 
-14,94 
(4,083) 
-18,79 
(5,197) 
p < 0,001 
27, 53 
p = 0,002 
38, 73 
p < 0,001 
21, 38 
p < 0,001 
32, 60 
p < 0,001 
27, 51 
p < 0,001 
33, 75 
p < 0,001 
26, 36 
-9,87  
(4,666) 
-8,44  
(3,706) 
-11,23  
(5,271) 
-9,26  
(4,060) 
-10,21  
(4,659) 
-7,47  
(4,075) 
-11,67 
(4,213) 
p = 0,034 
p = 0,023 
p = 0,033 
p = 0,022 
p = 0,028 
p = 0,067 
p = 0,006 
Least squares mean (LSM) 
Quality of Life-Diabetic Neuropathy (QoL-DN)     
modified Neuropathy Impairment Score (mNIS) 
NIS-W – sub-score for weakness 
NIS-R – sub-score for muscle stretch reflexes 
NIS-S – sub-score for clinical sensation  
Heart Rate during Deep Breathing (HRDB) 
Figure 2 
Difference in least squares mean (LSM) change from baseline between treatment 
groups in mNIS+7 and components 
A responder analysis of mNIS+7 using thresholds ranging from a 0-point to 30-point increase from 
baseline (using the safety set), showed the inotersen group had approximately a 2-fold higher response 
rate than the placebo group at each threshold tested, demonstrating consistency of response. A 
responder was defined as a subject who had a change from baseline that was less than or equal to the 
threshold value.  Subjects that terminate the treatment early irrespective of the reason or have missing 
week 66 data are considered as non-responders. Statistical significance in favour of inotersen was 
demonstrated at all thresholds beyond a 0-point change. 
Paediatric population 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Tegsedi in all subsets of the paediatric population in transthyretin amyloidosis (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following subcutaneous administration, inotersen is absorbed rapidly into systemic circulation in a 
dose-dependent fashion with the median time to maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) of inotersen 
typically reached within 2 to 4 hours. 
Distribution 
Inotersen is highly bound to human plasma protein (> 94%) and the fraction bound is independent of 
concentration. The apparent volume of distribution of inotersen at steady-state is 293 L in patients 
with hATTR. The high volume of distribution suggests inotersen extensively distributes into tissues 
following subcutaneous administration. 
Biotransformation 
Inotersen is not a substrate for CYP450 metabolism and is metabolised in tissues by endonucleases to 
form shorter inactive oligonucleotides that are the substrates for additional metabolism by 
exonucleases. Unchanged inotersen is the predominant circulating component. 
Elimination 
The elimination of inotersen involves both metabolism in tissues and excretion in urine. Both 
inotersen and its shorter oligonucleotide metabolites are excreted in human urine. Urinary recovery of 
the parent active substance is limited to less than 1% within the 24 hours post dose. Following 
subcutaneous administration, elimination half-life for inotersen is approximately 1 month. 
Special populations 
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis, age, body weight, sex or race has no clinically 
relevant effect on inotersen exposure. Definitive assessments were limited in some cases as covariates 
were limited by the overall low numbers.  
Elderly population 
No overall differences in pharmacokinetics were observed between other adult and elderly patients.  
Renal impairment 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis suggests that mild and moderate renal impairment has no 
clinically relevant effect on the systemic exposure of inotersen. No data are available in patients with 
severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of inotersen in patients with hepatic impairment has not been studied. Inotersen 
is not primarily cleared by metabolism in the liver, not a substrate for CYP450 oxidation, and 
metabolized broadly by nucleases in all tissues of distribution. Thus, pharmacokinetics should not be 
altered in mild to moderate hepatic impairment.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Toxicology 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decreased platelet counts were observed in chronic toxicity studies in mice, rats and monkeys at 1.4 to 
2-fold the human AUC at the recommended therapeutic inotersen dose. Severe platelet declines in 
association with increased bleeding or bruising were observed in individual monkeys. Platelet counts 
returned to normal when treatment was stopped but dropped to even lower levels when inotersen 
administration was resumed. This suggests an immunologically related mechanism.  
Extensive and persistent uptake of inotersen was observed by various cell types in multiple organs of 
all tested animal species including monocytes/macrophages, kidney proximal tubular epithelia, 
Kupffer cells of the liver, and histiocytic cell infiltrates in lymph nodes and injection sites. The kidney 
accumulation of inotersen was associated with proteinuria in rats at 13.4-fold the human AUC at the 
recommended therapeutic inotersen dose. In addition, reduced thymus weight due to lymphocyte 
depletion was observed in mice and rats. In monkeys, perivascular cell infiltration by 
lymphohistiocytic cells in multiple organs was noted. These pro-inflammatory organ changes were 
observed at 1.4 to 6.6-fold the human AUC at the recommended therapeutic dose in all animal species 
tested and were accompanied by increases of various plasma cytokines/chemokines.  
Genotoxicity/ carcinogenicity 
Inotersen did not exhibit genotoxic potential in in vitro and in vivo and was not carcinogenic in 
transgenic rasH2 mice. 
Subcutaneous administration of inotersen to Sprague-Dawley rats for up to 94 weeks at doses of 0.5, 
2, and 6 mg/kg/week resulted in a dose-related incidence of subcutaneous pleomorphic fibrosarcoma 
and subcutaneous fibrosarcoma (monomorphic type) at 2 and 6 mg/kg/week in the injection site or 
injection site regions. The human relevance of these findings is considered to be low.  
Reproductive toxicology 
Inotersen showed no effects on fertility, embryo-foetal, or postnatal development in mice and rabbits 
at approximately 3-fold the maximum recommended human equivalent dose. Milk transfer of 
inotersen was low in mice. However, inotersen is not pharmacologically active in mice and rabbits. 
Consequently, only effects related to the chemistry of inotersen could be captured in these 
investigations. Still, no effect on embryo-foetal development was noted with a mouse-specific 
analogue of inotersen in mice, which was associated with ~60% inhibition (individual range up to 90% 
reduction) of TTR mRNA expression. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Water for injections 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
5 years. 
Tegsedi may be stored unrefrigerated for up to 6 weeks below 30 °C. If not used within 6 weeks, it 
should be discarded. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C).  
Do not freeze.  
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
1.5 mL solution in a clear Type 1 glass pre-filled syringe.  
Tray with tear-off lid.  
Pack sizes of 1 or 4 pre-filled syringes. Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Tegsedi should be inspected visually prior to administration. The solution should be clear and 
colourless to pale yellow. If the solution is cloudy or contains visible particulate matter, the contents 
must not be injected. 
Each pre-filled syringe should be used only once and then placed in a sharps disposal container for 
disposal. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Ltd 
St. James House,  
72 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2 
D02 Y017, Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1296/001 
EU/1/18/1296/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 06 July 2018 
Date of latest renewal: 24 March 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.   MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  
C. 
D. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
ABF Pharmaceutical Services GmbH 
Brunnerstraße 63/18-19 
1230 Vienna 
AUSTRIA 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)  
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference  dates  (EURD  list)  provided  for  under  Article  107c(7)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  and  any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorization holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and  interventions  detailed  in  the  agreed  RMP  presented  in  Module  1.8.2  of  the  marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
•  Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to the launch of Tegsedi in each Member State (MS), the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) 
must agree about the content and format of the educational materials, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority 
(NCA).  
The MAH shall ensure that in each MS where Tegsedi is marketed, all patients who are expected to been 
administered the products are provided with a patient alert card (wallet size), aiming at preventing and/or 
minimising the important identified risks of thrombocytopenia, glomerulonephritis, hepatotoxicity, the 
important  potential  risk  of  ocular  toxicity  due  to vitamin  A  deficiency, liver  transplant  rejection  and 
reminding patients: 
•  To  carry  the  card  with  them  at  all  times  during  the  treatment  and  up  to  8  weeks  following 
treatment discontinuation; 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The list of signs and symptoms of thrombocytopenia, glomerulonephritis, hepatotoxicity, ocular 
toxicity due to vitamin A deficiency and liver transplant rejection, highlighting that these might 
be severe or life-threatening, and advising patients to call immediately their doctor or attend the 
emergency room if such signs and symptoms appear; 
•  To undergo all blood or urine tests as arranged by their doctor;  
•  To  have  a  list  of  all  other  medicinal  products  they  are  using  for  any  visit  to  a  Health  Care 
Professional (HCP). 
In addition to a prompt to include the contact details of the patient’s physician and a call for reporting, 
the patient card should also: 
•  Alert HCPs that the patient is taking Tegsedi, its indication and the key safety concerns; 
•  Advise HCPs that, due to the risks of thrombocytopenia and glomerulonephritis, patients should 
have their platelet count monitored at least every 2 weeks during the entire course of treatment 
with  inotersen,  and  urine  protein  to  creatinine  ratio  and  estimated  glomerular  filtration  rate 
monitored at least every 3 months or more frequently as clinically indicated, based on history 
of chronic kidney disease and/or renal amyloidosis; 
•  Advise  HCPs  that  if  the  platelet  count  falls  below  25  x  109/L,  Tegsedi  treatment  should  be 
permanently discontinued and corticosteroid therapy is recommended; 
•  Advise  HCPs  that  the  platelet  count,  UPCR  and  eGFR  should  be  monitored  for  8  weeks 
following discontinuation of treatment; 
•  Advise HCPs that if glomerulonephritis is confirmed, Tegsedi treatment should be permanently 
discontinued and early initiation of immunosuppressive therapy should be considered; 
•  Advise HCPs that, Tegsedi is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Liver 
function  should  be  assessed  before  initiating  Tegsedi.  Prompt  clinical  evaluation  and 
measurement of liver function tests should be performed preferably within 72 hours in patients 
who report  symptoms that may indicate liver injury. Dose interruption should be considered 
until clinical and liver function evaluation is performed; 
•  Advise HCPs that permanent discontinuation of Tegsedi is needed in case of drug-induced liver 
injury;  
•  Advise HCPs that hepatic enzymes should be measured 4 months after initiation of treatment 
with Tegsedi and annually thereafter or more frequently as clinically indicated, in order to detect 
cases of hepatic impairment. Patients with a prior liver transplant should be monitored for signs 
and  symptoms  of  transplant  rejection  during  treatment  with  Tegsedi.  In  these  patients,  liver 
function tests should be performed monthly; 
•  Advise HCPs that if patients develop ocular symptoms consistent with vitamin A deficiency, 
referral for ophthalmological assessment is recommended; 
•  Advise HCPs that discontinuation of Tegsedi should be considered in patients who develop liver 
transplant rejection during treatment. 
18 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tegsedi 284 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
inotersen  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml contains 189 mg inotersen (as inotersen sodium). 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 284 mg inotersen (as inotersen sodium) in 1.5 mL of solution. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for injections.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection  
1 pre-filled syringe 
4 pre-filled syringes 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
For single use only 
Lift here and pull to open 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following distribution to the patient, can be stored 6 weeks below 30°C. If not used, should be 
discarded.  
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Ltd 
St. James House,  
72 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2 
D02 Y017, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1296/001 
EU/1/18/1296/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Tegsedi 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
TRAY TEAR-OFF LID  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tegsedi 284 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
inotersen  
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Akcea Therapeutics 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER   
Subcutaneous use 
1. Bend and snap  
2. Pull to open  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Tegsedi 284 mg injection 
inotersen  
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1.5 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Tegsedi 284 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
inotersen 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Tegsedi is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Tegsedi  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Tegsedi 
Possible side effects  
How to store Tegsedi  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Tegsedi is and what it is used for 
Tegsedi contains the active substance inotersen. Inotersen is used to treat adults with hereditary 
transthyretin amyloidosis. Hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis is a genetic disease, which causes 
build-up of small fibres of a protein called transthyretin in the organs of your body stopping them from 
working properly. Tegsedi is used when the disease is causing symptoms of polyneuropathy (nerve 
damage). 
Inotersen, is a type of medicine called an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor. It works by reducing 
production of transthyretin by the liver and so lowers the risk of fibres of transthyretin being deposited 
in body organs and causing symptoms. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Tegsedi  
Do not use Tegsedi if: 
- 
- 
You are allergic to inotersen or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
Tests show you have excessively low numbers of platelets, the cells in your blood which stick 
together helping it clot. 
Tests of kidney function or protein in the urine show signs of severe kidney problems. 
You have severe reduction in liver function (hepatic impairment). 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Before you begin treatment with Tegsedi, your doctor will measure your blood cells, liver function, 
kidney function, vitamin A and protein levels in your urine. You may also be tested to assure a 
negative pregnancy result.  Unless explicitly advised by your doctor, you will only be treated with 
Tegsedi if these results are all at acceptable levels and your pregnancy result is negative.  Your doctor 
will repeat these checks regularly during treatment. It is important that you have these regular blood 
and urine tests for as long as you are taking Tegsedi. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thrombocytopenia 
Tegsedi may reduce cells in the blood responsible for clotting of the blood (platelets), which may 
result in a condition called thrombocytopenia at any time during treatment with Tegsedi (see section 
4). When you do not have enough platelets, like in thrombocytopenia, your blood may not clot quickly 
enough to stop bleeding. This can lead to bruising as well as other more serious problems such as 
excessive bleeding and internal bleeding. Your doctor will check your blood for levels of platelets 
before treatment and regularly during the entire course of treatment with Tegsedi. It is important that 
you have these regular blood tests for as long as you are taking Tegsedi because of the risk of serious 
bleeding caused by low platelet counts. If you stop taking Tegsedi, your blood levels should be 
checked 8 weeks after discontinuation.  
You should see your doctor immediately if you have unexplained bruising or a rash of small patches 
of red appearing on the skin (called petechiae), bleeding from skin cuts that does not stop or oozes, 
bleeding from the gums or nose, blood in urine or stools, bleeding in the whites of your eyes. Call for 
immediate help if you have stiffness of the neck or an unusual and severe headache because these 
symptoms may be caused by bleeding in the brain.  
Glomerulonephritis / kidney problems 
Glomerulonephritis is a condition of your kidneys, where they do not work properly due to 
inflammation and kidney damage. Some patients treated with inotersen have developed this condition. 
Symptoms of glomerulonephritis are foaming urine, pink or brown coloured urine, blood in the urine, 
and passing less urine than usual. 
Some patients treated with inotersen have also developed a decline in their kidney function without 
having had glomerulonephritis. 
Your doctor will check your kidney function before treatment and regularly during treatment with 
Tegsedi. It is important that you have these regular blood tests for as long as you are taking Tegsedi 
because of the risk of kidney problems. If you stop taking Tegsedi then your kidney function should be 
checked 8 weeks after discontinuation. If you develop glomerulonephritis, your doctor will treat you 
for this condition.  
Vitamin A deficiency 
Tegsedi can lower your body’s levels of vitamin A (also called retinol). Your doctor will measure 
these, and if they are already low, this should be corrected and any symptoms resolved before you start 
treatment with Tegsedi. Symptoms of low vitamin A include: 
• 
Dry eyes, poor vision, decrease in night vision, hazy or cloudy vision  
If you have problems with your sight or any other eye problems when you are using Tegsedi, you 
should speak to your doctor. Your doctor may refer you to an eye specialist for a check-up if it is 
necessary. 
Your doctor will ask you to take a daily vitamin A supplement during treatment with Tegsedi.  
Both excess and deficient levels of vitamin A can harm the development of your unborn child. 
Therefore, women of child-bearing age should exclude any pregnancy, before treatment initiation with 
Tegsedi and should practise effective contraception (see section “Pregnancy and breast-feeding” 
below). 
If you are planning to become pregnant you should stop taking inotersen including vitamin A 
supplementation and ensure that your vitamin A levels have returned to normal before conception is 
attempted.  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have an unplanned pregnancy you should stop taking inotersen. Due to the prolonged activity of 
Tegsedi, however, your reduced vitamin A levels may persist. It is unknown if continuation of your 
vitamin A supplementation with 3 000 IU per day will be harmful to your unborn child in the first 
trimester of your pregnancy, but this dose should not be exceeded. You should resume the vitamin A 
supplementation during your second and third trimesters of your pregnancy if your vitamin A levels 
have not yet returned to normal, because of the increased risk of vitamin A deficiency in the third 
trimester. 
Liver injury and monitoring 
Tegsedi may cause serious liver problems. You will need a blood test before you start taking inotersen 
to check whether your liver is working properly. You will also need these blood tests regularly while 
you are taking this medicine. It is important that you have these regular blood tests for as long as you 
are taking Tegsedi.  
Liver transplant rejection 
Talk to your doctor before using Tegsedi if you have previously received a liver transplant. Cases of 
liver transplant rejection have been reported in patients being treated with Tegsedi. Your doctor will 
monitor you regularly for this during treatment with Tegsedi.  
Children and adolescents 
Tegsedi should not be used in children and adolescents under 18 years old.  
Other medicines and Tegsedi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might use any other medicines. 
It is important that you tell your doctor if you are already being treated with any of the following: 
Medicines to prevent blood clots or that lower the platelet numbers in your blood, e.g., 
- 
acetylsalicylic acid, heparin, warfarin, clopidogrel, rivoraxaban and dabigatran. 
Any medicines that may alter your kidney function or may damage the kidneys, e.g., 
sulfonamides (used as an antibacterial), anilides (used to treat fever, aches and pains), 
aldosterone antagonists (used as a diuretic) and natural opium alkaloids and other opioids (used 
for treatment of pain).  
- 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before using this medicine.  
Women of child-bearing age 
Tegsedi will reduce the level of vitamin A in your body, which is important for normal foetal 
development during pregnancy. It is unknown if vitamin A supplementation can compensate for the 
risk of vitamin A deficiency that might affect your unborn child (see “Warnings and precautions” 
above). If you are a woman of child-bearing age, you should practise effective contraception and any 
pregnancy should be excluded before starting the treatment with Tegsedi. 
Pregnancy 
You should not use Tegsedi if you are pregnant, unless explicitly advised by your doctor 
Breast-feeding 
Inotersen may pass into breast milk. A risk to the breastfed infant cannot be excluded. You should 
consult your doctor if you should either stop breast-feeding or stop the treatment with Tegsedi.  
Driving and using machines 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of Tegsedi has not been shown to affect ability to drive or use machinery. 
Tegsedi contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 1.5 mL, that is to say essentially ‘sodium 
free’ 
3.  How to use Tegsedi 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
The recommended dose of Tegsedi is one dose of 284 mg inotersen.  
Doses should be administered once every week. All subsequent doses should be injected once weekly 
on the same day each week.  
Route and method of administration  
Tegsedi is for injection under the skin (subcutaneous use) only. 
Instructions for use 
Before using your pre-filled syringe, your doctor should show you or your caregiver how to use it the 
right way. If you or your caregiver have any questions, ask your doctor. 
Read the instructions for use before you start using your pre-filled syringe and each time you get a 
repeat prescription. There may be new information. 
Guide to parts 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plunger 
Finger Grip 
Safety Spring 
(Inside body) 
Body 
Inspection 
Area 
Needle 
Needle Cap 
Before use  
After use  
After use, the safety 
spring is automatically 
activated and retracts 
the needle. 
Each pre-filled syringe contains one dose and is for one-time use only. 
WARNINGS 
Do not remove needle cap until you have reached Step 6 of these instructions and are ready 
to inject Tegsedi; 
Do not share your syringe with another person or re-use your syringe; 
Do not use if the pre-filled syringe is dropped onto a hard surface or is damaged; 
Do not freeze the pre-filled syringe; 
If any of the above happens, throw away the pre-filled syringe in a puncture-resistant (sharps) 
container and use a new pre-filled syringe. 
PREPARATION 
1.  Gather supplies 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 Pre-filled syringe from the refrigerator 
1 Alcohol wipe (not supplied) 
1 Gauze pad or cotton ball (not supplied) 
1 Puncture-resistant (sharps) container (not supplied) 
Do not inject the medicine until you have gathered the supplies listed. 
2. 
Prepare to use your pre-filled syringe 
30 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Remove the plastic tray from the carton and check the expiry date. Do not use if the 
expiry date has passed.  
Let the pre-filled syringe reach room temperature (20 °C to 25 °C) for 30 minutes before 
injecting it. Do not warm the pre-filled syringe in any other way. For example, do not 
warm in a microwave or hot water, or near other heat sources. 
Remove the pre-filled syringe from the tray by holding onto the syringe body. 
Do not move the plunger.  
3.  Check medicine in the pre-filled syringe 
Look in the inspection area to 
check that the solution is clear 
and colourless or pale yellow. 
It is normal to see air bubbles 
in the solution. You do not 
need to do anything about it.  
Do not use if the solution 
looks cloudy, discoloured, or 
has particles.  
If the solution looks cloudy, 
discoloured or has particles, 
throw the pre-filled syringe 
away in a puncture resistant 
(sharps) container, and use a 
new pre-filled syringe. 
Choose an injection site on 
your abdomen (belly) or the 
front of your thigh. 
The injection site may also 
be on the outer area of the 
upper arm if Tegsedi is 
administered by a caregiver.  
Do not inject into the 3cm area 
around the belly-button 
(navel). 
Do not inject into the same 
site each time. 
Do not inject where skin is 
bruised, tender, red or hard. 
Do not inject into tattoos, 
scars or damaged skin. 
Do not inject through 
clothing. 
4.  Choose the injection site 
5.  Clean the injection site 
31 
 
 
 
Wash your hands with soap and 
water. 
Clean the injection site with an 
alcohol wipe in a circular motion. 
Let the skin air dry. 
Do not touch the area again 
before injecting. 
Hold the pre-filled syringe by the 
body, with the needle facing away 
from you.  
Remove needle cap by pulling it 
straight off. Do not twist it off.  
You may see a drop of liquid at the 
end of the needle. This is normal.  
Keep your hands away from the 
plunger to avoid pushing the plunger 
before you are ready to inject.  
Do not remove the needle cap until 
right before you inject.  
Do not pull the cap off while holding 
the pre-filled syringe by the plunger. 
Always hold by the body of the 
syringe.  
Do not let the needle touch any 
surface.  
Do not remove any air bubbles from 
the pre-filled syringe.  
Do not put the needle cap back onto 
the pre-filled syringe. 
Hold the pre-filled syringe in 1 hand. 
Hold the skin around at the injection 
site as your healthcare provider has 
instructed you. You should either 
gently pinch the skin at the injection 
site or give the injection without 
pinching the skin. 
Slowly insert the needle into the 
chosen injection site at a 90° angle 
until it is fully inserted. 
Do not hold the pre-filled syringe by 
the plunger or push against the 
plunger to insert the needle. 
INJECTION 
6.  Remove the needle cap 
7. 
Insert the needle 
8.  Start the injection 
32 
 
 
 
 
Slowly and firmly push the plunger 
all the way down until the medicine 
is injected. Make sure the needle 
stays fully inserted in the injection 
site while you are injecting the 
medicine.  
It is important to push the plunger all 
the way down.  
Your pre-filled syringe may make a 
click sound as you push the plunger 
down. This is normal. This does not 
mean that the injection is finished.  
The plunger can feel stiff towards the 
end of the injection. You may need 
to press a little harder on the plunger 
to make sure you have pushed it as 
far as it will go.  
Do not let go of the plunger. 
Push firmly on the plunger at the end 
of the injection. Hold the plunger fully 
down and wait for 5 seconds. If you 
let go of the plunger too quickly, you 
may lose some of the medicine.  
The plunger will start to lift 
automatically which means that the 
plunger has been pushed fully down.  
Press down again if the plunger does 
not start to lift automatically.   
Slowly lift up on the plunger and let 
the safety spring push the plunger up 
automatically.  
The needle should now be retracted 
safely inside the pre-filled syringe, 
and the safety mechanism spring 
visible on the outside of the plunger.  
When the plunger comes to a stop, 
your injection is complete.  
If the plunger does not rise up 
automatically when you release the 
pressure, it means the safety spring 
did not activate and you should push 
the plunger again but harder.  
Do not pull the plunger up by hand. 
Lift the whole pre-filled syringe 
straight up.  
Do not try to replace the cap on the 
retracted needle.  
Do not rub the injection site. 
Slowly and firmly 
push the plunger 
down 
9. 
Push the plunger down 
Hold 
the plunger 
fully down 
and wait 
5 seconds 
10.  Complete the injection 
Lift thumb 
slowly 
back up 
Wait 
5 
seconds 
DISPOSAL AND CARE 
Dispose of the used pre-filled syringe 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Put the used pre-filled syringe in 
a sharps disposal container right 
away after use. Do not throw 
away the pre-filled syringe in 
your household waste.  
If you use more Tegsedi than you should 
Contact your doctor or pharmacist, or go to a hospital emergency department immediately, even if you 
have no symptoms. 
If you forget to use Tegsedi  
If you miss your dose of Tegsedi, then you should have your next dose as soon as possible, unless the 
next scheduled dose is within two days, in which case the missed dose should be skipped and the next 
dose given at the scheduled time. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using Tegsedi 
Do not stop using Tegsedi unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
- 
Serious side effects 
If you get any of the following side effects, stop using Tegsedi and contact your doctor immediately:  
Symptoms that could indicate glomerulonephritis, (where your kidneys do not work properly), 
- 
such as foaming urine, pink or brown coloured urine, blood in the urine, or passing less urine 
than usual. Glomerulonephritis is a common side effect of inotersen (may affect up to 1 in 10 
people). 
Symptoms that could indicate thrombocytopenia (where blood will not clot due to low levels of 
blood platelets), such as unexplained bruising or a rash of small patches of red appearing on the 
skin (called petechiae), bleeding from skin cuts that does not stop or oozes, bleeding from the 
gums or nose, blood in urine or stools, or bleeding in the whites of your eyes. A low level of 
blood platelets is a very common side effect of inotersen (may affect more than 1 in 10 people). 
Symptoms that could indicate liver injury, such as yellowing of the eyes or skin, or dark urine, 
potentially accompanied by itching of the skin, pain on the upper right side of your stomach 
area (abdomen), loss of appetite, bleeding or bruising more easily than normal, or feeling tired. 
Call for immediate help if you have stiffness of the neck or an unusual and severe headache because 
these symptoms may be caused by bleeding in the brain.  
- 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Reduction in red blood cells which can make the skin pale and cause weakness or breathlessness 
(anaemia) 
Headache 
Vomiting, or nausea (feeling sick)  
Increase in body temperature 
Feeling cold (chills) or shivering 
Injection site pain, redness, itching or bruising 
Swelling of the ankles, feet or fingers (peripheral oedema) 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
An increase in the number of white blood cells called eosinophils in your blood (eosinophilia) 
Decreased appetite  
Feeling faint or dizzy, especially on standing up (low blood pressure, hypotension) 
Bruising  
Collection of blood within the tissues, that may look similar to severe bruising (haematoma) 
Itching  
Rash  
Kidney damage leading to poor kidney function or kidney failure 
Changes to your blood and urine test results (this may indicate liver or kidney damage) 
Flu like symptoms, such as high temperature, aches and chills (influenza-like illness) 
Injection site swelling or skin discolouration 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
- 
Allergic reaction  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tegsedi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date, which is stated on the carton, tray and on the pre-filled 
syringe after “EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C - 8 °C).  
Do not freeze. 
Tegsedi may be stored unrefrigerated for up to 6 weeks at a temperature below 30°C. If unrefrigerated 
and not used within 6 weeks then this medicine should be discarded.  
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the contents are cloudy or contains particles. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Tegsedi contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is inotersen.  
Each ml contains 189 mg inotersen (as inotersen sodium). Each pre-filled syringe contains 
284 mg inotersen (as inotersen sodium) in 1.5 mL of solution. 
The other ingredients are water for injections, sodium hydroxide, and hydrochloric acid (see 
“Tegsedi contains sodium” in section 2). 
- 
What Tegsedi looks like and contents of the pack 
Tegsedi is a clear, colourless to pale yellow solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe (injection).  
Tegsedi is available in pack sizes of either 1 or 4 pre-filled syringes. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Ltd 
St. James House,  
72 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2 
D02 Y017, Ireland 
Manufacturer 
ABF Pharmaceutical Services GmbH 
Brunnerstraße 63/18-19 
1230 Vienna 
Austria 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
