London, 21 July 2011 
EMA/777686/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
International non proprietary name: telmisartan  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002511 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1 
1.1 
1.2 
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
3 
4 
Background information on the procedure
Submission of the dossier
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
............................................. 4 
.................................................................................. 4 
...................................................... 5 
Scientific discussion
Introduction
Quality aspects
Non- Clinical aspects
Clinical Aspects
Pharmacovigilance
............................................................................... 5 
..................................................................................................... 5 
................................................................................................. 6 
......................................................................................... 9 
............................................................................................... 13 
.......................................................................................... 17 
Benefit-Risk Balance
............................................................................ 17 
Recommendation
.................................................................................. 18 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 2/18 
 
 
 
 
List of Abbreviations 
AII: Angiotensin II 
ACE: Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 
ACEI: Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Converting 
ASMF: Active Substance Master File 
AT1: Angiotensin I 
BUN: Blood Urea Nitrogen 
CHF: Congestive Heart Failure 
CHMP: Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use  
EMA: European medicines agency 
GCP: Good Clinical Practice 
ERA: Environmental Risk Assessment 
MA: Marketing Authorisation 
MAH: Marketing authorisation holder 
MAP: Mean Arterial Pressure 
MTD: Maximum Tolerated Dose 
NSAIDs: Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs 
PRA: Plasma-Renin Activity 
RAAS: Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System 
SmPC: Summary of product characteristics 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 3/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Teva Pharma B.V. submitted on 10 May 2011 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Telmisartan  Teva  Pharma,  through  the  centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3  (3)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No.  726/2004  –  ‘Generic  of  a  Centrally  authorised 
product’.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised  procedure  was  agreed  upon  by  the  EMA/CHMP  on 
17 February 2011. 
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(2)(b)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC  and  refers  to  a  reference  product  for  which  a  Marketing  Authorisation  is  or  has  been 
granted  in  the  Union  on  the  basis  of  a  complete  dossier  in  accordance  with  Article  8(3)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: treatment of essential hypertension in adults. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data  and  a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Micardis. 
This  application  is  submitted  as  a  multiple  of  Telmisartan  Teva  (EMEA/H/C/001146)  authorised  on 
26 January 2010 in accordance with Article 82.1 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal  product  which  is  or  has  been  authorised  in  accordance  with  Community  provisions  in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Micardis, 20 mg, tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
  Date of authorisation:  16-12-1998  
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number (s): EU/1/98/090/009-012 
■  Medicinal  product  authorised  in  the  Community/Members  State  where  the  application  is  made  or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Micardis 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
  Date of authorisation:  16-12-1998  
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/090/009-012 
    EU/1/98/090/001-004, 013, 015, 017, 019 
    EU/1/98/090/005-008, 014, 016, 018, 020 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 4/18 
 
 
 
 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Micardis 80 mg tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
  Date of authorisation: 16-12-1998   
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
 
 Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/98/090/005-008, 014, 016, 018, 020 
  Bioavailability study number(s): Protocol 80019 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The  product  was  not  licensed  in  any  country  outside  of  the  Union  at  the  time  of  submission  of  the 
application. 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Prof. János Borvendég   
1.2   Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 10 May 2011  
The procedure started on 22 May 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 24 June 2011. 
An updated Assessment Report was circulated on 14 July 2011. 
  During the meeting on 18-21 July 2011 the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Telmisartan Teva Pharma on 21 July 2011. 
2  Scientific discussion 
2.1  Introduction 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg tablets is a generic medicinal product containing 
telmisartan as active substance. The reference medicinal product is Micardis 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg 
tablets from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH which was centrally authorized on 16 December 
1998. The active substance of the reference product is telmisartan. 
In  addition  to  the  presentations  authorised  for  Micardis,  the  applicant  has  added  the  30x1,  84x1  and 
90x1 presentations for the 20 mg strength, and the 40x1 and 100x1 presentations for the 20 mg, 40 
mg and 80 mg strengths. 
Telmisartan  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  essential  hypertension  in  adults.  Telmisartan  is  also 
indicated  for  cardiovascular  prevention,  for  the  reduction  of  cardiovascular  morbidity  in  patients  with 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 5/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
manifest  atherothrombotic  cardiovascular  disease  (history  of  coronary  heart  disease,  stroke  or 
peripheral arterial disease) or type 2 diabetes mellitus with documented target organ damage.  
Telmisartan is an orally active and specific angiotensin II receptor (type AT1) antagonist. It displaces 
angiotensin  II  with  very  high  affinity  from  its  binding  site  at  the  AT1  receptor  subtype,  which  is 
responsible  for  the  known  actions  of  angiotensin  II.  Telmisartan  does  not  exhibit  any  partial  agonist 
activity at the AT1 receptor. Telmisartan selectively binds the AT1 receptor. The binding is long-lasting. 
Telmisartan does  not  show  affinity for  other  receptors,  including  AT2  and  other  less  characterised  AT 
receptors.  The  functional  role  of  these  receptors  is  not  known,  nor  is  the  effect  of  their  possible 
overstimulation by angiotensin II, whose levels are increased by telmisartan. Plasma aldosterone levels 
are decreased by telmisartan. Telmisartan does not inhibit human plasma renin or block ion channels. 
Telmisartan  does  not  inhibit  angiotensin  converting  enzyme  (kininase  II),  the  enzyme  which  also 
degrades bradykinin. Therefore it is not expected to potentiate bradykininmediated adverse effects. 
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  telmisartan  has  been  demonstrated  in  several  well-controlled  studies.  A 
summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of the reference product Micardis. 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg tablets is a duplicate of Telmisartan Teva 20 mg, 
40 mg and 80 mg tablets (EMEA/H/C/001146), which was granted a valid MA on 26 January 2010. The 
centrally approved dossier submitted for Telmisartan Teva has been used for this duplicate application, 
including  amendments  recently  approved  through  variations.  The  only  differences  are  the  product 
name and the SmPC and PIL texts. 
The  indication  proposed  for  Telmisartan  Teva  Pharma  is  the  same  as  the  authorised  indication  for 
Telmisartan  Teva  (i.e.  treatment  of  essential  hypertension).  However,  due  to  the  patent  situation  in 
many  EU  countries  where  the  combination  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  is  under  patent,,  the 
combination  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  has  been  deleted  from  the  Telmisartan  Teva  Pharma 
SmPC and PIL texts.. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
2.2.1  Introduction 
Telmisartan  Teva  Pharma  is  presented  as  immediate  release  tablets  containing  telmisartan  as  active 
substance. Three strengths have been developed: 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg. Other ingredients include 
microcrystalline  cellulose,  sodium  starch  glycolate,  poloxamer  188,  Lutrol  F68,  meglumine,  povidone 
(PVP K-30), sorbitol and magnesium stearate. All strengths have the same proportional composition.   
The 
tablets 
are  packaged 
into  Aluminium/Aluminium/Paper 
(peel  push)  blisters 
or 
Aluminium/Aluminium blisters. 
2.2.2  Active Substance 
The active substance is telmisartan, a well known active substance described in Ph. Eur. Its chemical 
name  is  4'-[(1,4'-Dimethyl-2'-propyl[2,6'-bi-lH-benzimidazol]-l'-yl)methyl][l,l'-biphenyl]-2-carboxylic 
acid.   
It is a white to slightly yellowish crystalline powder, practically insoluble in water, but freely soluble in 
organic  solvents.  Telmisartan  has  no  chiral  centers  and  exhibits  no  stereoisomerism.  The  chemical 
structure  of  the  molecule  has  been  established  by  spectral  (UV,  IR,  1H  and  13C  NMR  and  mass 
spectra)  elemental  and  thermal  (DSC)  analyses.    The  active  substance  exhibits  polymorphism.  The 
capability  of  the  analytical  methods  used  to  discriminate  the  potential  polymorphs  has  been 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 6/18 
 
 
demonstrated  and  batch  analysis  data  confirm  that  the  manufacturing  process  used  consistently 
produces a single polymorphic form. 
Manufacture 
Telmisartan  is  supplied  by  one  manufacturer,  and  an  Active  Substance  Master  File  (ASMF)  has  been 
submitted. The active substance is synthesised in four main steps using commercially available starting 
materials.    The  process  is  adequately  described  and  satisfactory  specifications  have  been  set  for 
reagents,  solvents  and  auxiliary  materials  used  in  the  process.  All  critical  in-process  controls 
parameters are well established and justified. 
Telmisartan  active  substance  is  packed  into  double  polyethylene  bags  which  are  placed  in  a  triple 
laminated bag equipped with a silica gel bag, filled with nitrogen, sealed and kept in HDPE containers 
with  a  HDPE  lid.  Specifications  and  analytical  reports  for  the  packaging  components  have  been 
presented and the suitability of the polyethylene bags for use with food and pharmaceuticals has been 
confirmed. 
Specification 
The specification of telmisartan was set to be in line with the current Ph. Eur. monograph and relevant 
ICH  guidelines.  The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  assay  (HPLC), 
identification  (IR),  solubility,  appearance  of  solution,  related  substances  (by  HPLC),  residual  solvents 
(by GC), X-ray powder diffraction pattern, loss on drying and sulphated ash. In addition, the finished 
product manufacturer is measuring the particle size distribution.  
A reasoned discussion on impurities arising from the starting materials, the route of synthesis and on 
degradation  products  has  been  provided.  Impurities  A  and  B  are  process  related  impurities  and 
impurities  C  and  D  are  specified  impurities  in  Ph.  Eur.  All  these  impurities  are  controlled  in  the  final 
active  substance  specification  in  accordance  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  requirements.  The  impurity  limits  are 
acceptable and there is no concern from the point of view of safety. 
The residual solvents are also controlled at release with specifications in accordance with ICH Q3C. 
All  active  substance  specifications  are  considered  adequately  justified  and  the  non-compendial 
analytical  procedures  have  been  satisfactorily  described  and  validated  in  accordance  with  the  ICH 
guidelines.  
Batch analysis data from five production scale batches have been provided. The results confirm batch-
to-batch consistency and compliance with the Ph. Eur. monograph and the additional specifications. 
Stability 
Data from stability studies on three production scale batches have been provided. Samples were stored  
for up to 36 months under long term conditions (25°C/60% RH) and for 6 months under accelerated 
conditions  (40°C/75%  RH)  in  accordance  with  ICH  requirements.    All  batches  have  been  tested  for 
conformance with the specifications using stability indicating analytical methods. In all cases the batch 
analysis data met the predefined specifications and no significant changes were observed. 
In  addition  stability  data  have  been  provided  under  stress  conditions  (heat,  acid  hydrolysis,  base 
hydrolysis, photo degradation, water hydrolysis and hydrogen peroxide treatment). 
Based on the results of the stability studies so far, a valid retest period of 36 months has been justified 
with no special storage conditions 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 7/18 
 
 
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  obtain  immediate-release  tablets  containing 
qualitatively  and  quantitatively  the  same  active  substance  and  exhibiting  the  same  bioavailability  as 
the reference medicinal product, Micardis tablets marketed by Boehringer Ingelheim. 
A  common  formulation  was  developed  for  Telmisartan  20  mg,  40  mg  and  80  mg  tablets  that  is 
proportional for each strentgh.  
Most  of  the  excipients  of  Teva’s  products  are  common  to  the  reference  product  except  that  Micardis 
tablets  do  not  contain  poloxamers  (Lutrol  F68,  Poloxamer  188)  and  microcrystalline  cellulose  (Avicel 
PH-102).  All  the  excipients  employed  are  commonly  used  in  pharmaceutical  oral  dosage  forms  and 
comply with the Ph. Eur. 
Further  to  development  studies,  wet  granulation  was  chosen  as  the  most  appropriate  process  for  the 
manufacture of the drug product. The manufacturing process is common for all strengths. 
The  dissolution  test  design  has  been  extensively  discussed  and  has  been  found  adequate  based  on 
data  from  solubility  tests  of  the  active  substance  and  similarity  tests  for  the  new  and  reference 
products  in  different  pH  media.  The  discriminatory  nature  of  the  dissolution  method  has  also  been 
satisfactorily demonstrated. 
Adventitious agents 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma does not contain excipients from animal or human origin. 
Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  sufficiently  described.  It  consists  of  a  standard  wet  granulation 
process  which  includes  the  following  steps:  mixing,  wet  granulation,  drying,  milling,  Sieving,  mixing, 
tabletting and packaging.  
All critical process parameters have been identified and controlled by appropriate in-process controls. 
Validation data from two pilot scale batches of each strength demonstrate that the process is capable, 
reproducible  and  provides  a  product  that  complies  with  the  in-process  and  finished  product 
specifications. The validation protocol for the production scale batches had been adequately described. 
Telmisartan  shows  polymorphism.  Studies  demonstrated  that  the  active  substance  physical  form  is 
consistent between strengths and is stable during the storage of the medicinal product.  
Product Specification  
The finished product specification includes tests for description, appearance, identification (HPLC, UV), 
assay  (HPLC),  dissolution  (HPLC),  content  uniformity  (HPLC),  friability,  thickness,  resistance  to 
crushing, impurities and degradation products (HPLC), microbial count and water content. 
The  finished  product  specifications  are  considered  appropriate  for  this  dosage  form,  and  they  are  in 
general in accordance with current guidelines and European pharmacopoeia.  
Batch analysis data from two production scale scaleof batches for each strength have been presented. 
Batch analysis results comply with the predefined specifications and confirm consistency & uniformity 
of manufacture and indicate that the process is under control.  
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 8/18 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Data from stability studies on two pilot scale batches for each strength have been provided. Samples 
were stored for up to 12 months under long-term conditions (25°C/60% RH) and for 6 months under 
accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75%  RH)  in  accordance  with  ICH  requirements.    All  batches  have  been 
tested 
for  physical  (appearance,  dissolution),  chemical  (assay,  degradation  products)  and 
microbiological  parameters  using  stability  indicating  methods.    In  all  cases  the  parameters  tested 
remained within the proposed specifications and no significant changes were observed.  
Furthermore,  photostability  studies  have  been  performed  as  per  ICH  Q1B  guideline  and  demonstrate 
that the film-coated tablets are not sensitive to light. 
In  conclusion,  the  stability  results  presented  were  satisfactory and  support  the  proposed  shelf life for 
the commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SmPC.  
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Relevant  ICH/CHMP  guidelines  and  Pharmacopoeial  requirements  have  been  followed  in  the  quality 
documentation.  
Information  on  development,  excipients,  manufacturing  process,  analytical  methods,  packaging  and 
control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The 
results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality 
characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and 
uniform performance in the clinic. At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were no unresolved quality 
issues which could have an impact on the benefit/risk ratio of the medicinal product. 
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. 
2.3  Non- Clinical aspects   
2.3.1  Introduction 
A  non-clinical  overview  on  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  has  been  provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need  to  generate  additional  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  data.  The 
non-clinical  aspects  of  the  SmPC  are  in  line  with  the  SmPC  of  the  reference  product.  The  impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
2.3.2  Pharmacology 
In  vitro,  AT1  receptor  antagonists  inhibit  the  contractile  effects  of  AII  in  all  vascular  smooth  muscle 
preparations.  In vivo, they prevent and reverse all the known effects of AII including: rapid pressure 
response; slow pressure response; stimulatory effects on the peripheral sympathetic nervous system; 
CNS  effects  such  as  thirst,  vasopressin  release  and  sympathetic  tone;  release  of  adrenal 
catecholamines;  secretion  of  aldosterone;  direct  and  indirect  effects  of  AII  on  the  kidneys;  growth-
promoting actions. Furthermore, they reduce arterial blood pressure in animals with renovascular and 
genetic hypertension, and in transgenic animals over-expressing the renin gene, but have little effect 
in  animals  with  low-renin hypertension.  They  are  highly  selective  in  that  they  do  not  displace  ligands 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 9/18 
 
 
that bind to calcium channels or adrenergic, muscarinic, dopaminergic, opioid or neurotensin receptors, 
and do not antagonise the actions of vasopressin, catecholamines, acetylcholine, serotonin, bradykinin 
or histamine.  
Mechanistically, AII is formed from AI in a reaction catalysed by ACE.  AII, being the principal pressor 
agent of the RAAS, elicits effects that promote hypertension, including vasoconstriction, stimulation of 
the  synthesis  and  release  of  aldosterone,  cardiac  stimulation  and  renal  reabsorption  of  sodium.  AII 
antagonists such as telmisartan prevent the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of AII by 
selectively  blocking  the  binding  of  AII  to  the  AT1  receptor  in  the  cell  membranes  of  various  tissues 
including vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland. This action is therefore dependant upon the 
pathways of AII synthesis. 
AT2  receptors  are  also  present  in  a  wide  variety  of  tissues  but  they  are  not  known  to  be  associated 
with  cardiovascular  homeostasis.  In  any  event,  the  selectivity  of  telmisartan  comes  from  its  >3000 
times greater affinity for AT1 receptors compared with AT2’s, 
ACEI  also  block  the  renin-angiotensin  system  by  inhibiting  the  biosynthesis  of  AII  from  AI,  and  are 
widely used in the treatment of hypertension and CHF. ACEI also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin 
(which is also catalysed by ACE), a property not associated with telmisartan. It is possible that the lack 
of  activity  in  this  respect  may  make  telmisartan  less  likely  to  be  associated  with  the  side  effect  of 
cough that is experienced by some patients taking ACEI. 
Blockade  of  the  AT1  receptor  inhibits  the  negative  regulatory  feedback  of  AII  on  renin  secretion,  but 
the  resulting  elevated  plasma-renin  activity  (PRA)  and  circulating  levels  of  AII  do  not  overcome  the 
effect of telmisartan on blood pressure. It is also pertinent that telmisartan does not bind to, or affect, 
other receptors or ion channels important in cardiovascular regulation. 
In vivo, telmisartan has shown hypotensive activity in the main species used in the toxicology (rat and 
dog)  and  in  rabbits,  cynomolgus  monkeys  and  marmosets.  Telmisartan  reduced  diastolic  blood 
pressure in normotensive rats, dogs and rabbits. In AII-induced hypertension in rats, telmisartan dose-
dependently  lowered  blood  pressure  after  oral,  i.v.  or  i.d.  administration,  identifying  it  as  a  non-
competitive  receptor  antagonist.  It  also  lowered  blood  pressure  in  renin-dependent  hypertensive  rats 
(in which losartan was 3 times less potent) and in renal hypertensive rats. The effect was long-lasting, 
particularly  in  the  dog,  which  appeared  to  be  the  more  sensitive  species.  The  enduring  effect  could 
result  from  slow  dissociation  or  from  slow  off-rate  of  telmisartan  from  its  binding  sites.  In  sodium-
depleted  normotensive  cynomolgus  monkeys,  telmisartan  elicited  up  to  a  42%  reduction  in  MAP 
without  affecting  heart  rate.  Increases  in  PRA  and  plasma  AII  levels  suggested  that  increased  PRA 
maybe  a  consequence  of  blocking  AII  receptors  in  renin-sensitive  tissues.  Furthermore,  telmisartan 
inhibited the AII pressor response in anaesthetised marmosets. 
Telmisartan  also  has  a  cardioprotective  function  that  has  been  demonstrated  in  rats.    As  well  as 
lowering blood pressure in the streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat, it also lowered cholesterol, very low 
density  lipoproteins  and  triglycerides,  and  prevented  cardiac  hypertrophy.  In  another  model, 
telmisartan improved cardiovascular remodelling associated by the production of e-NOS through PPAR-
γ, inhibition of the Rho-kinase pathway and suppression of oxidative stress. 
In  a  series  of  studies  unrelated  to  its  therapeutic  activity,  telmisartan  at  very  high  doses  in  rats  and 
guinea pigs had some non-specific inotropic activity giving rise to ECG changes, ventricular tachycardia 
and  AV-block  with  bradycardia;  importantly,  there  were  no  ECG  changes  in  the  comprehensive 
programme of toxicity studies.  In renal function tests in rats, telmisartan had diuretic and natriuretic 
effects  and  elevated  BUN  and  creatinine  levels;  these  changes  were  prevented  in  animals  that  were 
sodium-loaded.  It  was  also  reported  that  telmisartan  protects  against  the  nephrotoxic  effects  of 
cyclosporin A in minipigs and of diatrizoate in rats.  Telmisartan attenuated glitazone-induced increases 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 10/18 
 
 
in  body  fat  mass  in  genetically  obese  rats  and  rats  fed  a  high-fat  diet.    It  did  not  affect  bradykinin-
induced  bronchoconstriction  in  anaesthetised  guinea  pigs.  Finally,  in  CNS  studies,  telmisartan  had  no 
muscle-relaxant activity in mice, and did not affect spontaneous motor activity or hexobarbital sleeping 
time in rats. 
There  is  no  nonclinical  information  on  drug  interactions  with  telmisartan,  but  clinical  data  exist  in 
relation  to  co-administration  with  digoxin,  diuretics,  NSAID’s,  highly  protein-bound  drugs  and  drugs 
that are metabolised by CYP2C19. 
2.3.3  Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  telmisartan  was  investigated  by  the  oral  and  i.v.  routes  in  rats,  mice,  dogs 
and rabbits (the main species used in the toxicology). In addition, toxicity studies had complementary 
toxicokinetics. 
Orally  administered  telmisartan  was  rapidly  absorbed  in  rats,  mice  and  dogs,  but  more  slowly  in 
rabbits.  Absorption was high in rats and mice, with absolute bioavailability of 56-75%.  It was lower in 
dogs though less so when administered after food. In mice and humans, Cmax and AUC were higher in 
F, but there were no clear gender differences in rats or dogs. 
Cmax  after  an  oral  dose  of  1  mg/kg  was  similar  in  rats,  dogs  and  humans,  but  higher  in  mice  and 
rabbits.  The t½ was reasonably similar in rats, mice and dogs, but was longer in rabbits and humans.  
In  rats,  mice  and  dogs,  the  compound-related  material  in  plasma  was  predominantly  parent  drug 
whereas,  in  rabbits,  there  were  roughly  equal  amounts  of  parent  and  metabolite(s).  Dose-
proportionality  with  single  rising  doses  was  apparent  at  lower  doses  in  rats  and  dogs  but,  at  higher 
doses,  it  was  greater  than  proportional;  similar  non-proportionality  occurs  in  humans.  In  rabbits, 
plasma  concentrations  24  hours  after  dosing  were  high,  indicating  constantly  high  exposure  during 
repeated daily dosing. 
Orally  administered  telmisartan  concentrates  predominantly  in  the  plasma  fraction  of  the  blood  in  all 
species, and correlates with the very high binding to plasma proteins (around 99%). The high degree 
of binding results in relatively slow metabolism of the parent compound. 
Telmisartan is rapidly distributed into a volume of distribution greater than total body water (5.3L/kg in 
rats, and 1.7-3.0 L/kg in dogs).  Tissue distribution studies in rats showed the highest concentration to 
be  in  the  liver,  with  lower  levels  in  blood,  lung,  renal  cortex  and  myocardium;  only  very  low  levels 
were  identified  in  the  CNS.    In  pregnant  rats,  telmisartan  crossed  the  placenta  and  was  identified  in 
foetal liver, kidney and lung where, 24 hours after dosing the dam, levels were higher than in maternal 
blood at that time. 
After  absorption  from  the  oral  route,  telmisartan  appears  predominantly  as  parent  compound  (80-
90%)  in  the  plasma.  It  was  readily  glucuronidated  in  all  microsomal  fractions  except  lung,  and  its 
affinity  for  liver  enzymes  was  greater  than  those  from  kidney  or  small  intestine.  The  rate  of 
metabolism in the liver was slow and drug was retained in the liver, but the rate of elimination of the 
glucuronide  was  rapid.  The  main  metabolite  in  rat  and  human  systems  was  telmisartan  1-O-
acylglucuronide.  The  metabolism  of  telmisartan  is  similar  in  rats,  mice  and  dogs  though,  in  mice,  a 
glycoside of telmisartan was also identified and accounted for 5-11% of the administered dose. 
In  all  species  including  humans,  telmisartan  is  preferentially  eliminated  via  the  bile  into  the  faeces, 
with <1% excreted in the urine. There was virtually no enterohepatic recycling of parent drug and only 
about 10% of the acylglucuronide.  In lactating rats, the levels of telmisartan-related material secreted 
in the milk were about twice those in plasma. 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 11/18 
 
 
2.3.4  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity  
The  single-dose  studies  provided  limited  useful  information.    An  oral  dose  of  2000  mg/kg  had  no 
effects in rats, while dogs given 100 mg/kg had white material (presumably drug) in their faeces.  Rats 
dosed  i.v.  at  200  mg/kg  showed  depressant  effects  and,  amongst  other  post-mortem  changes, 
discoloured kidneys and gastric haemorrhage. 
Repeat dose toxicity  
A  full  regulatory  programme  of  toxicity  studies  up  to  12  months’  duration  was  conducted  in  rats  and 
dogs.  In  all  repeated  dosing  studies,  there  was  a  commonality  of  effects  in  the  kidney  and 
gastrointestinal  tract,  irrespective  of  whether  the  drug  was  administered  by  gavage,  in  the  diet  or 
intravenously  (i.v.  studies  are  not  considered  in  this  document).    The  primary  target  organs  in  rats, 
dogs and mice were kidneys and gastrointestinal tract. 
The  kidney  changes  were  associated  with  elevated  circulating  levels  of  BUN  and  creatinine  and 
alterations in electrolyte concentrations. In rats and dogs, there was juxtaglomerular hypertrophy and 
hyperplasia  of  the  afferent  glomerular  arterioles;  the  effects  were  blocked  by  sodium  loading  in  rats.  
They  probably  arose  as  a  consequence  of  exaggerated  pharmacology;  blockade  of  AII  induced 
inhibition of renin release, thereby stimulating renin-producing cells.  Similar changes occur with other 
sartans and with ACEI, and are considered not relevant to therapeutic doses in patients.  Telmisartan 
was  also  associated  with  renal  tubular  changes  in  normotensive  dogs,  which  were  consistent  with 
hypotension  reducing  renal  perfusion,  leading  to  tubular  hypoxia  and  consequent  tubular  cellular 
degeneration and necrosis.  In hypertensive patients, the objective of telmisartan treatment would be 
to  restore  normal  blood  pressure;  under  these  circumstances,  the  hypotensive  states  necessary  for 
reductions in renal blood pressure and consequent pathology would not arise. 
Gastrointestinal  erosion  and  ulceration,  and  mucosal  and  submucosal  inflammation  and  subsequent 
fibrosis,  occurred  predominantly  in  rats  and  rabbits;  dogs  were  less  sensitive  and  mice  were  not 
affected.  The effects were not a consequence of local irritation because i.v. administration (in studies 
not reviewed here) gave rise to similar lesions.  The precise mechanism is unknown but, like the renal 
changes, the gut changes can be ameliorated in rats by salt-loading. 
There  were  also  consistent  anaemic  changes  (such  effects  are  known  to  occur  with  ACEI  and  AII 
antagonists  as  a  result  of  reductions  in  erythropoietin,  presumably  due  to  the  decreased  influence  of 
AII on the kidney).  The effects were generally time- and dose-related in both incidence and severity, 
and  are  considered  to  be  a  consequence  of  exaggerated  pharmacodynamic  activity.    They  can  be 
prevented by salt-loading in rats. 
The  decrease  in  heart  weight  recorded  in  most  toxicity  studies  probably  reflected  a  reduction  of 
hypertrophied  cardiomyocytes  to  their  normal  size,  rather  than  any  reduction  from  the  normal.    The 
reduction has been attributed to the absence of trophic effects of AII on growing cardiomyocytes and 
the  prevention  of  cardiac  hypertrophy.    There  is  no  loss  of  contractile  function  in  the  smooth  muscle 
cells, so cardiac function is not affected.  This is also a class effect with AII antagonists and ACEI. 
Genotoxicity 
The  recommended  range  of  genotoxicity  studies  followed  accepted  protocols  and  gave  uniformly 
negative results. 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 12/18 
 
 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice used high multiples of the maximum human exposure level as 
justification  for  setting  the  highest  dose  level;  furthermore,  in  rats,  it  is  possible  that  the  MTD  was 
attained.  There was no effect on survival, and the toxicological findings were consistent with those in 
the  repeated-dose  studies.    In  both  species,  statistical  analyses  of  the  results  revealed  no  significant 
positive trend or increase in incidence of neoplasms in any of the telmisartan-treated groups compared 
with  controls.  This  conclusion  was  supported  by  the  absence  of  genotoxicity  in  a  full  battery  of 
mutagenicity studies. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Reprotoxicity studies with telmisartan in rats and rabbits followed the conventional Segment I, II and 
II  approach.  Complementary  toxicokinetics  revealed  little  difference  in  exposure  from  non-pregnant 
rats;  there  was  constant  systemic  exposure  at  all  doses  and  dosing  periods  in  both  rats  and  rabbits; 
furthermore, in rats, drug crosses the placenta and is secreted in the milk of lactating animals.  In both 
species,  toxicity  was  apparent  primarily  as  reductions  in  food  consumption  and  bodyweight  gain.  
There was no effect on fertility in rats and no evidence of teratogenicity in either species.  In weanling 
rats,  a  short  delay  in  eye-opening  was  probably  a  consequence  of  reduced  bodyweight  gain.    In 
rabbits,  there  was  an  all-or-nothing  effect  on  intrauterine  loss;  in  some  dams,  there  was  total 
resorption while, in similarly treated animals, foetal development was not affected. 
2.3.5  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  was  submitted.  This  was  justified  by  the  applicant  as  the 
introduction of Telmisartan Teva Pharma manufactured by Teva Pharma B.V. is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all telmisartan containing products 
and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar 
and not increased. 
2.3.6  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  non-clinical  overview  presented  by  the  applicant  provided  an  adequate  overview  of  the 
pharmacological, pharmacokinetic and toxicological aspects of telmisartan. There were no major issues 
raised during the assessment from a non-clinical point of view. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
2.4.1  Introduction 
This  is  an  application  for  oral  tablets  containing  telmisartan.  To  support  the  marketing  authorisation 
application  the  applicant  conducted  a  bioequivalence  study  with  cross-over  design  under  fasting 
conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
Exemption  
Dissolution profiles of telmisartan  
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 13/18 
 
 
The test and reference dissolution profiles were compared using a validated discriminatory 
dissolution method.  
Justification for biowaiver 
The results of the bioequivalence study conducted with the 80 mg tablets could be acceptable for the 
20 mg and 40 mg strength because the following criteria for a biowaiver have been fulfilled:  
1. 
The  pharmaceutical  products  are  manufactured  at  the  same  site  by  the  same  manufacturer 
and manufacturing process.  
2. 
3. 
The qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same.  
The composition of the strengths is quantitatively proportional.  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  orally  administered  telmisartan  are  nonlinear  over  the  dose  range  20–160 
mg, with greater than proportional increases of plasma concentrations (Cmax and Telmisartan 20 mg, 
40  mg  and  80  mg  Tablets  AUC)  with  increasing  doses.  The  selection  of  the  80mg  dose  to  establish 
bioequivalence  is  in  line  with  the  Questions  and  Answers  on  the  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
guideline  EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006,  which  indicates  that  a  single  strength  study  may  be 
acceptable  provided  that  the  study  is  conducted  on  the  highest  dose  for  drugs  with  a  demonstrated 
greater  than  proportional  increase  in  AUC  or  Cmax  with  increasing  dose,  as  is  the  case  with 
telmisartan. The biowaiver was granted for the lower strengths. 
Clinical studies 
To  support  the  application,  the  applicant  has  submitted  one  bioequivalence  study.  No  new 
pharmacodynamic studies and no new therapeutic equivalence studies were submitted. 
2.4.2  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
This  is  an  open-label,  single-dose,  randomized,  two-period,  two-sequence,  two-treatment,  crossover 
study.  Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  one  of  the  two  dosing  sequences  AB  or  BA  under  fasting 
conditions. Each subject received either an 80mg telmisartan generic tablet (Test) or a Micardis 80mg 
tablet  (Reference),  with  240ml  water,  after  an  overnight  fast,  according  to  a  computer  generated 
randomisation  list.  Following  a  14-day  washout  period,  the  subjects  received  the  alternative 
formulation under  identical  conditions.  During  each  study  period,  blood  samples  were  taken  pre-dose 
and at 0.125, 0.50, 0.75, 1.00, 1.25, 1.50, 1.75, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00, 4.00, 5.00, 6.00, 8.00, 12.0, 24.0, 
48.0 (± 0.5), 72.0 (± 0.5), 96.0 (± 0.5) and 120 (± 0.5) hours after drug administration.  Plasma was 
harvested from these samples and assayed for telmisartan using a validated LC/MS/MS method. 
The  design  employed  was  considered  by  the  CHMP  appropriate  for  bioequivalence  studies.  The 
selection  of  the  80mg  dose  to  establish  bioequivalence  is  in  line  with  the  bioequivalence  guideline 
EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006, which indicates that a single strength study may be conducted on the 
highest  dose  for  drugs  with  a  demonstrated  greater  than  proportional  increase  in  AUC  or  Cmax  with 
increasing dose. 
The study was complying with GCP, as claimed by the applicant. 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 14/18 
 
 
 
Test and reference products  
Name: 
Unit dose: 
Regimen: 
Treatment 
Test (A) 
telmisartan 
80 mg 
Reference (B) 
telmisartan (Micardis) 
80 mg 
single dose of 1 x 80 mg tablet 
per subject in accordance with 
the randomisation scheme 
single dose of 1 x 80 mg tablet 
per subject in accordance with 
the randomisation scheme 
Lot/Batch No.: 
K-36856 (Batch No.) 
Expiry date: 
Not available 
706944 
07 2011 
Manufacturing date: 
May 23, 2006 
Not available 
Company Responsible for 
Manufacturing: 
Boehringer Ingelheim 
International GmbH, Germany 
The size of the biobatch was considered acceptable. The Product Certificates of the Test and Reference 
products were missing but were provided by the applicant during the evaluation of the application. It 
was concluded that tablets used in bioequivalence study have the same pharmaceutical characteristics 
as the tablets to be marketed. 
Population(s) studied 
Sixty healthy adult subjects (43 males and 17 females of non-childbearing potential) aged between 20 
and 55 years (mean 39 ± 10), with a body mass index (BMI) of between 20.3 and 29.9 (mean 26.1 ± 
2.4) and a weight range of 48.7 to 96.9kg (mean 74.3 ± 9.7) participated in the study. A total of 58 
subjects  completed  the  study  and  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetic  analysis.  The  following 
subjects did not complete the study:  
Subject No. 28   withdrew prior to period 2 of the study due to seborrheic dermatitis of the nose. 
Subject No. 52   failed to attend for period 2 of the study. 
Analytical methods 
Telmisartan concentration in plasma samples was determined by a HPLC/MS/MS method. 
The method was validated according Bioanalytical Validation Guideline of the FDA. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables  
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  interest  in  this  study  were:  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf,  AUCt/inf,  Cmax, 
Residual area, Tmax, Kel and T½ el. 
Statistical methods 
Analysis  of  Variance  (ANOVA)  was  performed  on  log-transformed  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  data.  
ANOVA  was  also  performed  on  the  untransformed  Kel  and  T½  el  data.    Wilcoxon’s  Signed-Rank  test 
was  carried  out  to  compare  Tmax  between  treatments.  The  ratios  of  least-squares  means  and  90% 
geometric  confidence  intervals  were  calculated  for  log-transformed  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax. 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 15/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Covariates in the ANOVA model: were: group, sequence, sequence*group, subject (sequence*group), 
period  (group),  treatment  and  treatment*group.  Standard  statistical  model  and  industry  standard 
statistical software (SAS) were used.  
Results 
Conclusions 
The  presented  bioequivalence  study  confirmed  that  the  test  product  (telmisartan  80mg  tablets)  is 
bioequivalent  to  the  Reference  formulation  (Micardis  80mg  tablets,  manufactured  by  Boehringer 
Ingelheim International GmbH, Germany) with respect to rate and extent of availability.  
The analytical validation reports are compliant with regulatory requirements. 
The  design  employed  was  appropriate  for  bioequivalence  studies.  A  single  dose  study  is  considered 
appropriate in view of the fact that telmisartan does not accumulate during repeated administration 
The residual area was 6.65% for the test product and 6.94% for the reference product, indicating that 
the pharmacokinetic time points were adequate to detect 80% of the AUC to infinity, for both products. 
The  90%  geometric  confidence  intervals  of  the  ratio  (Test/Reference)  of  least-squares  means  of  the 
log transformed data were within the internationally accepted range of 80% and 125% for AUC0-t and 
for Cmax as well. 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 16/18 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3  Pharmacodynamics 
No  new  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  presented  and  no  such  studies  are  required  for  this 
application. 
2.4.4  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The  efficacy  and  safety  profile  of  telmisartan  in  the  indication  claimed  for  Telmisartan  Teva  Pharma 
(i.e. treatment of essential hypertension) is well known and no additional clinical studies are needed.  
A bioequivalence study was conducted and confirmed that the test product (telmisartan 80mg tablets) 
is  bioequivalent  to  the  Reference  formulation  (Micardis®  80mg  tablets,  manufactured  by  Boehringer 
Ingelheim International GmbH, Germany) with respect to rate and extent of availability. 
The  recommended  dosage  and  method  of  administration  of  the  generic  product  Telmisartan  Teva 
Pharma 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg tablets is the same as that recommended for the reference product 
Micardis 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg tablets.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
Marketing Authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The  CHMP  did  not  require  the  applicant  to  submit  a  risk  management  plan  because  the  application 
concerns  a  generic  for  a  reference  medicinal  product  for  which no  safety  concern  requiring  additional 
risk minimisation activities has been identified.  
PSUR cycle 
The  PSUR  cycle  for  the  product  will  follow  PSURs  submission  schedule  for  the  reference  medicinal 
product Micardis, which is on a yearly cycle, having 11 April 2012 as its data lock point. 
2.6  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patients groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use.  
3  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This  application  concerns  a  generic  version  of  telmisartan  tablets.  The  reference  product  Micardis  is 
indicated  for  essential  hypertension  in  adults  and  for  cardiovascular  prevention,  for  the  reduction  of 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 17/18 
 
 
cardiovascular morbidity in patients with manifest atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease (history of 
coronary  heart  disease,  stroke  or  peripheral  arterial  disease)  or  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  with 
documented  target  organ  damage.  No  nonclinical  studies  have  been  provided  for  this  generic 
application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance 
was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain 
new  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  as  well  as  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the 
active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from 
published literature was considered sufficient. 
The  bioequivalence  study  forms  the  pivotal  basis  with  a  open-label,  single-dose,  randomised,  two-
period, two-sequence, two-treatment, crossover design. The study design was considered adequate to 
evaluate  the  bioequivalence  of  this  formulation  and  was  in  line  with  the  respective  European 
requirements. A single dose under fasting conditions study is considered appropriate in view of the fact 
that telmisartan does not accumulate during repeated administration. Choice of dose, sampling points, 
overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. 
Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Telmisartan 80 mg tablets met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence 
when compared with the European brand product Micardis 80 mg tablets (manufactured by Boehringer 
Ingelheim International GmbH, Germany). The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for 
the  parameters  AUC0-t,,  AUC 0-,  and  Cmax  were  all  contained  within  the  protocol-defined  acceptance 
range of 80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
4  Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considers  by  consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Telmisartan Teva Pharma in the treatment of essential hypertension in 
adults is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/777686/2011 
Page 18/18 
 
 
 
