EMA/511707/2015  
EMEA/H/C/001168 
EPAR summary for the public 
Telmisartan Actavis 
telmisartan 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Telmisartan Actavis. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Telmisartan Actavis. 
What is Telmisartan Actavis? 
Telmisartan Actavis is a medicine that contains the active substance telmisartan. It is available as 
tablets (20 mg; 40 and 80 mg). 
Telmisartan Actavis is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Telmisartan Actavis is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Micardis. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Telmisartan Actavis used for? 
Telmisartan Actavis is used to treat essential hypertension (high blood pressure) in adults. ‘Essential’ 
means that the hypertension has no obvious cause. 
Telmisartan Actavis is also used to prevent cardiovascular problems (problems with the heart and 
blood vessels) such as heart attacks or strokes. It is used in patients who have had problems due to 
blood clots in the past (such as heart disease, a stroke or artery disease) or who have type 2 diabetes 
that has damaged an organ (such as the eyes, heart or kidneys). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Telmisartan Actavis used? 
For the treatment of essential hypertension, the usual recommended dose of Telmisartan Actavis is 40 
mg once a day, but some patients may benefit from using 20 mg once a day. If the target blood 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
pressure is not reached, the dose can be increased to 80 mg, or another medicine for hypertension can 
be added, such as hydrochlorothiazide. 
For the prevention of cardiovascular problems, the recommended dose is 80 mg once a day. The 
doctor should monitor the patient’s blood pressure closely when starting Telmisartan Actavis, and may 
decide to adjust the patient’s blood pressure-lowering medication. Patients with severely reduced 
kidney function should receive a lower starting dose of 20 mg once a day. Patients with mild or 
moderately reduced liver function should not receive doses higher than 40 mg a day. 
How does Telmisartan Actavis work? 
The active substance in Telmisartan Actavis, telmisartan, is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, 
which means that it blocks the action of a hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is 
a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to 
which angiotensin II normally attaches, telmisartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the 
blood vessels to widen. This allows the blood pressure to drop, reducing the risks associated with high 
blood pressure, such as having a heart attack or stroke. It also allows the heart to pump blood more 
easily, which can help to reduce the risk of future cardiovascular problems. 
How has Telmisartan Actavis been studied? 
Because Telmisartan Actavis is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Micardis. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Telmisartan Actavis? 
Because Telmisartan Actavis is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Telmisartan Actavis been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Telmisartan Actavis has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Micardis. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Micardis, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Telmisartan 
Actavis be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Telmisartan Actavis: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Telmisartan Actavis on 30 September 2010.  
The full EPAR for Telmisartan Actavis can be found on the Agency’s website EMA website/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Telmisartan Actavis, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2015.  
Telmisartan Actavis  
EMA/511707/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
