EMA/14965/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002511 
EPAR summary for the public 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
telmisartan 
This is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Telmisartan Teva Pharma. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Telmisartan Teva Pharma. 
What is Telmisartan Teva Pharma? 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma is a medicine that contains the active substance telmisartan. It is available 
as tablets (20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg). 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Telmisartan Teva Pharma is similar 
to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Micardis. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Telmisartan Teva Pharma used for? 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma is used to treat essential hypertension (high blood pressure) in adults. 
‘Essential’ means that the hypertension has no obvious cause. 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma is also used to prevent cardiovascular problems (problems with the heart 
and blood vessels) such as heart attacks or strokes. It is used in patients who have had problems due 
to blood clots in the past (such as heart disease, a stroke or artery disease) or who have type 2 
diabetes that has damaged an organ (such as the eyes, heart or kidneys). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Telmisartan Teva Pharma used? 
For the treatment of essential hypertension, the usual recommended dose of Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
is 40 mg once a day, but some patients may benefit from using a 20-mg dose. If the target blood 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
pressure is not reached, the dose can be increased to 80 mg, or another medicine for hypertension can 
be added, such as hydrochlorothiazide. 
For the prevention of cardiovascular problems, the recommended dose is 80 mg once a day. The 
doctor should monitor the patient’s blood pressure closely when starting Telmisartan Teva Pharma, and 
may decide to adjust the patient’s blood pressure-lowering medication. Patients with severely reduced 
kidney function should receive a lower starting dose of 20 mg once a day. Patients with mild or 
moderately reduced liver function should not receive doses higher than 40 mg a day 
How does Telmisartan Teva Pharma work? 
The active substance in Telmisartan Teva Pharma, telmisartan, is an ‘angiotensin II receptor 
antagonist’, which means that it blocks the action of a hormone in the body called angiotensin II. 
Angiotensin II is a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the 
receptors to which angiotensin II normally attaches, telmisartan stops the hormone having an effect, 
allowing the blood vessels to widen. This allows the blood pressure to drop, reducing the risks 
associated with high blood pressure, such as having a heart attack or stroke. It also allows the heart to 
pump blood more easily, which can help to reduce the risk of future cardiovascular problems 
How has Telmisartan Teva Pharma been studied? 
Because Telmisartan Teva Pharma is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests 
to determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Micardis. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefit and risk of Telmisartan Teva Pharma? 
Because Telmisartan Teva Pharma is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Telmisartan Teva Pharma been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Telmisartan Teva Pharma has been 
shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Micardis. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was 
that, as for Micardis, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Telmisartan Teva Pharma: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Telmisartan 
Teva Pharma on 3 October 2011.  
The full EPAR for Telmisartan Teva Pharma can be found on the Agency’s website: EMA website/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Telmisartan Teva Pharma, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2015.  
Telmisartan Teva Pharma  
EMA/14965/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
