8 June 2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Telzir 
fosamprenavir   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000534/II/0058 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
17 March 2011 
EMA/452907/2011  
Human Medicines Development and Evaluation  
CHMP variation assessment report 
Type II variation EMEA/H/C/000534/II/0058 
Invented name/name: 
Telzir 
International non-proprietary name/common 
fosamprenavir 
name: 
Indication summary (as last approved): 
treatment of HIV-1 infection 
Marketing authorisation holder: 
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction 
The active substance of Telzir, fosamprenavir (FPV), is a Protease Inhibitor (PI) of HIV. After oral 
administration, fosamprenavir is rapidly and almost completely hydrolysed to amprenavir and inorganic 
phosphate prior to reaching the systemic circulation. Amprenavir is a competitive inhibitor of the HIV-1 
protease.  
Telzir is available as 700 mg film-coated tablet and as 50 mg/mL oral suspension. 
Telzir in combination with low dose ritonavir (RTV) is indicated for the treatment of Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1) infected adults, adolescents and children of 6 years and above 
in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products. Telzir must only be given with low dose 
ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer of amprenavir and in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicinal products. 
The recommended dose of Telzir in adults and adolescents (over 39 kg) is 700 mg fosamprenavir twice 
daily with 100 mg ritonavir twice daily. The dose of Telzir in paediatric patients is based on body 
weight and is 18 mg/kg fosamprenavir twice daily with 3 mg/kg ritonavir twice daily, up to the adult 
dose. 
The European Commission (EC) issued on 12 July 2004 a Marketing Authorisation for Telzir for the 
treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1) infected adults. An extension of indication 
in adolescents and children of 6 years and above was granted by the EC in September 2007. 
On 10 December 2010, the MAH submitted a type II variation to include information related to drug 
interactions with Alfuzosin, an alpha-1 receptor antagonist, and phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) 
inhibitors. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/452907/2011  
Page 2/6
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This variation has been classified as follow: 
Variation(s) requested 
C.I.4 
Variations related to significant modifications of the 
Summary of Product Characteristics due in particular to 
new quality, pre-clinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Type 
II 
1.2.  Clinical aspects 
Following oral administration, fosamprenavir is rapidly and almost completely hydrolysed to 
amprenavir and inorganic phosphate as it is absorbed through the gut epithelium. 
Amprenavir is primarily metabolised by the liver with less than 1% excreted unchanged in the urine. 
The primary route of metabolism is via the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme. Amprenavir metabolism is 
inhibited by ritonavir, via inhibition of CYP3A4, resulting in increased plasma concentrations of 
amprenavir. Amprenavir is also an inhibitor of CYP3A4; however it is less potent than ritonavir. In 
addition to exerting potent CYP3A4 inhibition, ritonavir inhibits CYP2D6 and induces CYP1A2, CYP2C9, 
and glucuronosyl transferase.  
The current labelling of fosamprenavir states that drugs that are inducers, inhibitors or substrates of 
CYP3A4 must be used with caution when administered concurrently with fosamprenavir and ritonavir. 
Interaction with Alfuzosin 
Alfuzosin is an alpha-1 receptor antagonist used in the management of hypertension and benign 
prostatic hypertrophy. Alfuzosin is partially metabolised and excreted mainly in the bile and faeces. 
None of the metabolites found in man has any pharmacodynamic activity. CYP3A4 is the principal 
hepatic enzyme isoform involved in the metabolism of alfuzosin. 
To date, no pharmacokinetic or clinical studies have examined the effect of alfuzosin when used 
together with fosamprenavir (with or without ritonavir).  
However, there is a potential theoretical interaction with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as fosamprenavir. The 
likelihood of an interaction is further increased as fosamprenavir is coadministered with ritonavir. 
Interaction with PDE5 inhibitors 
PDE5 inhibitors (e.g. sildenafil, tadalafil) are used in the management of erectile dysfunction and more 
recently for pulmonary arterial hypertension. These indications have different dosages.  
At doses of 50 mg (not to exceed 100 mg per day), sildenafil (Viagra) is indicated in the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction in men.  Due to its ability to relax pulmonary vascular smooth muscle to increase 
exercise capacity, sildenafil (Revatio) is indicated in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension 
(PAH) at a dose of 20 mg three times daily (TID)3.   
PDE5 inhibitors metabolism is principally mediated by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms 3A4. 
To date, no pharmacokinetic or clinical studies have examined the effect of PDE5 inhibitors when used 
together with fosamprenavir (with or without ritonavir).  
The current labelling already contains information about avoiding coadministration due to increased 
levels of PDE5 inhibitors, but only refers to ‘Erectile dysfunction agents’. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/452907/2011  
Page 3/6
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion and changes to the product information 
To reflect the potential drug interactions with alfuzosin and PDE5 inhibitors, the MAH proposed to 
update the table of interaction in section 4.5 to include alfuzosin and reword the mention of PDE5 
inhibitors to cover use in both pulmonary arterial hypertension and erectile dysfunction indications. The 
MAH proposed to update section 2 of the package leaflet accordingly. 
The co-administration of alfuzosin with CYP3A inhibitor as fosamprenavir and especially ritonavir which 
is always co-administered with fosamprenavir as a booster, could increase plasma concentration of 
alfuzosin and therefore be associated with serious adverse event. Therefore the MAH proposal of 
adding only a statement in section 4.5 of the SmPC and a warning in PL is not considered acceptable 
by the CHMP.  
The CHMP recommends that co-administration of fosamprenavir /ritonavir with alfuzosin should be 
contraindicated as it is the case for other PIs.  
With regards to interaction with PDE5 inhibitors, the CHMP is of the view that as for other boosted PIs, 
a difference should be made between PDE5 inhibitors when used for the treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension (PAH) and when used for erectile dysfunction.  
Available data on co-administration of ritonavir at steady state dose (500 mg BID) with sildenafil 
(100 mg single dose) resulted in a 4-fold and 11-fold increase in sildenafil C max and AUC respectively1,2. 
Given the pharmacokinetic interaction and resulting increased potential for sildenafil-associated 
adverse events (which include hypotension and syncope, etc.), and the inability to further downward 
adjust the sildenafil dose below 20 mg, co-administration of sildenafil (Revatio) with ritonavir is 
contraindicated in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients in the Revatio SmPC3.  
Therefore, as Telzir is always co-administered with ritonavir as a booster, co-administration with 
sildenafil in PAH patients should be contraindicated.  
As regards the use of PDE5 inhibitors in erectile dysfunction, the CHMP recommends that the warning 
should be in line with other boosted PIs with the same level of recommendation.  
Consequently, the following changes have been made to the product information: 
SmPC section 4.3, Contraindication 
“Telzir must not be administered concurrently with medicinal products with narrow therapeutic 
windows that are substrates of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), e.g. alfuzosin, amiodarone, 
astemizole, bepridil, cisapride, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, pimozide, quinidine, terfenadine, oral 
midazolam (for caution on parenterally administered midazolam, see section 4.5), oral triazolam, 
sildenafil used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (for use of sildenafil in patients 
with erectile dysfunction, see sections 4.4 and 4.5).” 
SmPC section 4.4, Special warnings and precautions for use 
 “PDE5 inhibitors used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction: The use of Telzir concomitantly with 
PDE5 inhibitors (e.g. sildenafil and, tadalafil, vardenafil) is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/452907/2011  
Page 4/6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Co-administration of Telzir with low dose ritonavir and these medicinal products is expected to 
substantially increase their concentrations and may result in PDE5 inhibitor-associated adverse events 
such as hypotension, visual changes and priapism (see section 4.5).  Note that co-administration of 
Telzir with low dose ritonavir with sildenafil used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension 
is contraindicated (see section 4.3).” 
SmPC section 4.5, Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION 
MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
(PDE5 INHIBITORS) 
Sildenafil 
Vardenafil 
Tadalafil 
No drug interaction studies. 
PDE5 inhibitors:  
expected 
(CYP3A4 inhibition by 
FPV/RTV) 
Concomitant use is not 
recommended. It may 
result in an increase in 
PDE5 inhibitor-associated 
adverse reactions, including 
hypotension, visual changes 
and priapism (refer to PDE5 
inhibitor prescribing 
information). Patients 
should be warned about 
these possible side effects 
when using PDE5 inhibitors 
with Telzir/ritonavir (see 
section 4.4). Note that co-
administration of Telzir with 
low dose ritonavir with 
sildenafil used for the 
treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension is 
contraindicated (see section 
4.3). 
ALPHA 1-
ADRENORECEPTOR 
ANTAGONIST 
Alfuzosin 
Potential for increased 
alfuzosin concentrations 
which can result in 
hypotension. The 
mechanism of interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by 
fosamprenavir/ritonavir. 
Co-administration of 
TELZIR/ritonavir with 
alfuzosin is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3) 
Package Leaflet – section 2 
“Don’t take Telzir: 
… 
 
if you are taking any of these medicines 
- alfuzosin (used to treat a prostate problem) 
… 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/452907/2011  
Page 5/6
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- sildenafil if used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension, (a condition affecting the blood vessels to 
your lungs) 
… 
These medicines are not recommended with Telzir/ritonavir: 
 
sildenafil and, vardenafil or tadalafil (used to treat erectile dysfunction) ” 
In addition, the MAH has updated the list of representatives in the package leaflet: 
“Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
info@glaxosmithkline.dk dk-info@gsk.com 
Ísland 
GlaxoSmithKline ehf. 
Simi: + 354 530 3700 
Slovenská republika 
GlaxoSmithKline Slovakia s. r. o. 
Tel: + 421 (0)2 49 10 33 48 26 11 11 
recepcia.sk@gsk.com 
Κύπρος 
GlaxoSmithKline (Cyprus) Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 22 89 95 01 39 70 00” 
Annex II 
Finally, Annex II has been updated according to the latest QRD recommendations: 
“Pharmacovigilance system 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, as described in version 7.2 presented in 
Module 1.8.1 of the Marketing Authorisation Application is in place and functioning before and whilst 
the product is on the market.” 
2.  Conclusion 
On 17 March 2011 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II and Package 
Leaflet (Attachment 1 - changes highlighted). 
3.  References 
1. Gupta M, Kovar A, and Meibohm B.  The Clinical Pharmacokinetics of Phosphodiesterase-5 Inhibitors 
for Erectile Dysfunction.  J Clin Pharmacol 2005;45:987-1003. 
2. Croom KF and Curran MP.  Sildenafil: A Review of its Use in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension. Drugs 
2008; 68 (3): 383-397 
3. Revatio (Sildenafil) Summary of Product Characteristics. March 2011. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/452907/2011  
Page 6/6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
