SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Telzir. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Over the last few years, a decrease in the morbidity associated with AIDS and an increase in survival 
times  in  association  with  sustained  suppression  of  viral  replication  has  been  achieved  in  North 
America  and  Europe,  primarily because  of  the  use of  highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). 
Current options for the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV-1) consist of four different 
mechanistic  classes  of  compounds:  nucleoside/nucleotide 
inhibitors 
(NRTIs/NtRTIs),  protease  inhibitors  (PIs),  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  (NNRTIs) 
and  fusion  inhibitors.  The  choice  of  the  combination  regimens  depends  on  the  status  of  the  patient, 
particularly in terms of plasma  viral load  (HIV  RNA), CD4  cell counts,  previous treatment(s), prior 
relapse and intolerance to treatment. 
transcriptase 
reverse 
The  long-term  use  of  all  these  products  is,  however,  limited  by  the  emergence  of  resistance,  by 
potential  toxicity  and  in  some  cases  by  inconvenient  dosing  schedules  or  formulations.  Further 
therapeutic agents are therefore needed, particularly in patients who have failed therapy. 
Although there is currently not enough data to demonstrate the relative benefit of each number of daily 
administration,  it  is  reasonable  to  accept  that  a  reduced  number  of  daily  doses  along  with  a  small 
number of pills may meet the patient’s preference. 
Telzir  contains  fosamprenavir,  which  is  the  prodrug  of  amprenavir,  a  non-peptide  competitive 
inhibitor  of  the  HIV  protease  enzyme.  Fosamprenavir  has  no  or  little  antiviral  activity  per  se,  and 
requires in-vivo metabolism to release the active moiety amprenavir. A medicinal product containing 
amprenavir  has  already  been  granted  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  treatment  of  HIV  infection, 
however its inherent low solubility has resulted in a commercial formulation requiring taking a large 
number of capsules per day.  
Telzir has therefore been developed not only to optimise the use  of amprenavir, by further reducing 
the  pill  burden  but  also  to  optimise/complete  the  clinical  development  of  this  compound  in  HIV 
infected naïve and pretreated patients. Telzir is available both as film-coated tablets containing 700 mg 
of fosamprenavir as fosamprenavir calcium (equivalent to approximately 600 mg of amprenavir) and 
oral  suspension  containing  50 mg/ml  fosamprenavir  as  fosamprenavir  calcium  (equivalent  to 
approximately 43 mg/ml amprenavir). 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Telzir  in  combination  with  low  dose  ritonavir  is  indicated  for  the 
treatment  of  Human  Immunodeficiency  Virus  Type  1  (HIV-1)  infected  adults  in  combination  with 
other  antiretroviral  medicinal  products.  In  moderately  antiretroviral  experienced  patients,  Telzir  in 
combination with low dose ritonavir has not been shown to be as effective as lopinavir / ritonavir. 
In  heavily  pretreated  patients  the  use  of  Telzir  in  combination  with  low  dose  ritonavir  has  not  been 
sufficiently  studied.  In  protease  inhibitor  (PI)  experienced  patients  the  choice  of  Telzir  should  be 
based on individual viral resistance testing and treatment history.” 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Telzir is available in two pharmaceutical forms i.e. film-coated tablet and oral suspension. 
Film-coated tablets 
Telzir film-coated  tablet contains  700  mg  of fosamprenavir  as fosamprenavir calcium (equivalent to 
approximately 600 mg of amprenavir). 
The other ingredients include: 
-  
Tablet  core:  microcrystalline  cellulose,  croscarmellose  sodium,  povidone  K30,  magnesium 
stearate, colloidal anhydrous silica,  
1/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  
Tablet film coating: hypromellose, titanium dioxide, glycerol triacetate and iron oxide red. 
The tablets are packed in HPDE bottle with child resistant closure. 
Oral suspension 
Telzir  oral  suspension  contains  50 mg/ml  of  fosamprenavir  as  fosamprenavir  calcium  (equivalent  to 
approximately 43 mg/ml of amprenavir).  
other 
ingredients 
The 
sucralose,  methyl 
parahydroxybenzoate,  propyl  parahydroxybenzoate,  polysorbate  80,  calcium  chloride  dihydrate, 
artificial grape bubblegum flavour, natural peppermint flavour and purified water. 
hypromellose, 
propylene 
include 
glycol, 
The  oral  suspension  is  presented  in  a  multidose  HPDE  bottle  with  child  resistant  polypropylene 
closures. A 10 ml dosing syringe and a syringe adaptor are provided.  
Drug Substance  
Fosamprenavir is the phosphate ester prodrug of amprenavir. A medicinal product containing 
amprenavir has already been approved via the centralised procedure. Fosamprenavir is present in the 
finished products as the calcium salt. 
The  active  substance  is  a  white  to  cream  coloured  solid.  It  is  very  slightly  soluble  in  water  and  its 
water solubility is pH dependant (maximum solubility at pH 3 to 4).  
Structure elucidation has been conducted by standard methods (elemental analysis, NMR, MS, IR and 
single crystal X-ray crystallography). Fosamprenavir contains 3 chiral centres, but it is synthesised as 
the single enantiomer 3S, 1S, 2R. Experimental data have shown that the inversion of the chiral centres 
during the synthesis and storage is very unlikely.  
Only  one  crystalline  form  has  been  identified,  produced  and  used  in  non-clinical/clinical  studies.  It 
contains approximately 5 molecules of water, but it cannot be considered as a strict pentahydrate.  
Manufacture 
• 
The synthesis of fosamprenavir is similar to the one authorised for amprenavir with the exception of 
the last steps: phosphate esterification, final isolation of calcium salt and milling.  
One  of  the  starting  materials  uses  stearylamine,  a  bovine  tallow  derived  material,  as  an  anticaking 
agent  in  its  preparation.  The  potential  TSE  risk  associated  with  stearylamine  has  been  satisfactorily 
addressed.  
Satisfactory  specifications  and  associated  methods  have  been  provided  for  the  starting  materials, 
intermediate, reagents and solvents.  
Specification  
• 
The  active  substance  specification  include  test  for  appearance,  identity  (IR  and  calcium  flame  test), 
assay  (HPLC,  NLT  98.0  %  -  NMT  102.0  %),  water  content  (PhEur),  impurity  content  (HPLC), 
residual solvents (GC), palladium content (skip testing) and particle size. 
The formation of the desired enantiomer of fosamprenavir is ensured through the use of key starting 
materials  of  high  stereochemical  purity  and  the  route  of  synthesis.  A  chiral  identity  test  will  be 
developed on an ongoing basis. Therefore, the omission of a chiral assay for the claimed enantiomer 
and a chiral determination of the opposite enantiomer in the specifications have been supported in this 
particular case.  
Only one quality of drug substance in terms of particle size is used for the tablet and oral suspension, 
with an additional specification for the latter. This is in line with the need for resuspendibility of the 
suspension (see oral suspension pharmaceutical development). 
Specification  limits  have  been  adequately  justified  by  analytical,  stability  and  toxicity  data.  The 
analytical methods used in routine controls have been suitably described and validated. 
Batch  analysis  data  provided  for  6  recent  batches  manufactured  at  the  commercial  synthesis  site 
confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity with the proposed specification. 
2/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
• 
Under  intermediate  conditions  (30°C/60  %RH  -  intended  packaging),  24-month  stability  data  have 
been provided for 3 pilot scale batches and 12-month for 3 industrial scale batches. Under accelerated 
conditions (40°C/75 %RH - intended packaging) 6-month data have been provided. A photostability 
study has been performed and indicates that fosamprenavir is not light sensitive. A retest period of 3 
years with precaution for storage of “Store up to 30°C” has been adequately justified and is supported 
by the presented data when the substance is stored in metal, plastic or fibreboard containers lined with 
anti-static low-density polyethylene bags and sealed with plastic ties. 
Drug Product  
Film-coated tablets 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Due to the low aqueous solubility of amprenavir and the need for a high ratio of excipients/amprenavir 
in  the  formulation,  amprenavir  capsules  have  been  formulated  as  low-strength  large  soft  capsules 
requiring administration of several capsules daily. In order to ensure a lower pill burden and keep the 
tablet size to a minimum in the case of fosamprenavir, a formulation with a high drug load and low 
level of excipients has been developed. 
The excipients have been selected based on their compatibility with the drug substance by means of 
statistically  designed  excipient  interaction  studies  on  powder  mixes.  They  are  all  of  European 
Pharmacopeia  quality  except  the  film-coating,  which  is  satisfactorily  controlled  according  to  a 
different standard. An appropriate level of each excipient has been established through a multifactorial 
formulation design.  
Due to a combination of high drug content and small particle size of the drug substance causing poor 
blend flow properties, direct compression was not feasible and a classical high shear wet granulation 
process has been developed. 
The suitability of the primary packaging selected i.e. HPDE bottle with child resistant closure has been 
demonstrated by stability studies. It is in compliance with European regulation on plastic materials and 
articles  intended  to  come  into  contact  with  foodstuffs.  Regarding  the  TSE  risk,  stearylamine  is  the 
only component of ruminant origin used in the manufacture of Telzir (see drug substance). 
The main phase III clinical trials were performed using 3 “variants” of the 700 mg film-coated tablets 
A, B and C, corresponding to different scale up of the drug substance/drug product and particle size of 
the drug substance. In the first instance, bioequivalence was not established between these 3 variants 
and the reasons for it seem not to be clearly identified. However, bioequivalence studies APV10021 
and APV10029 demonstrated that both scale-up of the drug substance and of the drug product, and the 
particle size of the drug  substance  have no impact  in vivo and thus are of  no  clinical relevance  (see 
Section 3.4 Clinical aspects – Pharmacokinetics) 
In  addition,  an  appropriate  drug  substance  particle  size  specification  has  been  established  (see  drug 
substance) and only one quality of tablets i.e. variant C will be commercialised, thus ensuring a drug 
product of consistent quality. 
Manufacture of the product 
• 
The  manufacturing  process  involves  the  following  conventional  operations:  high  shear  wet 
granulation,  drying,  milling,  blending,  tablet  compression,  film-coating  and  packaging.  Two 
granulation  batches  may  be  combined  prior  to  addition  of  the  extra  granular  excipients  to  form  a 
compression/film coating batch. 
Satisfactory  validation  data  on  production-scale  batches  have  been  provided.  Together  with  process 
development  data,  they  show  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  robust  and  well  controlled.  The 
hydration state and solid-state form  of  the  drug substance are not  affected  during the  manufacturing 
process involving heating of the product. 
3/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product specification 
• 
The product specification includes tests controlled by validated methods for appearance, identity (IR), 
identification of colourants, assay (HPLC), impurity content (HPLC), dissolution, uniformity of mass 
(PhEur) and microbial limit (PhEur – non routine test). 
Water activity and microbial limit tests have confirmed that the water associated with fosamprenavir 
does  not  promote  microbial  growth  in  the  drug  substance  and  product,  and  thus  that  a  routine 
microbial limit test is not necessary.  
Batch analysis data provided for 6 batches comply with the specifications and indicate consistent and 
reproducible manufacture. 
Stability of the product 
• 
Under  long-term  conditions  (30°C/60  %  RH  –  intended  packaging),  30-month  data  have  been 
provided for 2 pilot scale batches and 24-month for 1 pilot scale batch. Accelerated data (40°C/75 % 
RH - intended packaging) have been provided up to 6 months. 
The data provided support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. 
Oral suspension 
Pharmaceutical Development 
• 
This  oral  formulation  has  been  mainly  developed  for  patients,  who  have  difficulties  in  swallowing 
tablets. 
The  particle  size,  distribution  of  the  drug  substance,  has  been  shown  to  impact  on  the  suspension 
properties, especially redispersibility. This has been taken into account in fosamprenavir specification 
(see drug substance).  
All the excipients have been selected based on their compatibility with the drug substance in order to 
ensure  minimal  agglomeration  and  easy  redispersibility  of  the  suspension.  A  1%  w/w  level  of 
propylene  glycol  was  chosen  in  order  to  ensure  solubility  of  the  preservatives  without  affecting  the 
redispersibility  of  the  formulation.  The  pH  selected  is  satisfactory  for  the  physical  properties  of  the 
suspension.  In  addition,  it  maintains  the  antimicrobial  efficacy  of  the  preservatives,  which  has  been 
demonstrated  according  to  PhEur  at  release  and  during  storage.  Taste  masking  of  fosamprenavir  is 
achieved  by  using  sucralose  and  by  inclusion  of  two  flavours.  Patient  acceptability  of  the  taste  and 
palatability of the oral suspension has been confirmed. All the excipients are of PhEur quality except 
sucralose  and  flavours,  which  are  adequately  controlled  according  to  different  standards.  Regarding 
the TSE risk, stearylamine is the only component of ruminant origin used in the manufacture of Telzir 
(see drug substance). 
Satisfactory  specifications  have  been  provided  for  the  HDPE  bottle  and  the  child-resistant 
polypropylene  closure.  The  compatibility  of  suspension  with  the  primary  packaging  has  been 
satisfactorily demonstrated. The oral syringe is CE marked and has been approved for its intended use. 
The accuracy and reproducibility of the dose delivered by this medical device has been satisfactorily 
demonstrated. 
Satisfactory  minimum  shaking  time  to  ensure  redispersibility  prior  to  extracting  the  first  dose  and 
subsequent doses have been determined based on studies simulating patient-use conditions at low and 
high doses. No  significant differences in drug substance content  were observed at any of the dosing 
intervals, dose regimes and shaking times 
Manufacture of the Product 
• 
Methyl  and  propyl  parahydroxybenzoate  are  solubilised  in  propylene  glycol  before  mixing  with  the 
bulk  hypromellose  dispersion,  and  drug  substance  dispersion  along  with  the  other  excipients  in  a 
sequence that ensures optimal stability of the product. 
Validation data on commercial scale batches manufactured by the proposed commercial site have been 
provided. A maximum hold time of 7 days for the bulk suspension prior to filling has been set based 
on satisfactory physicochemical and microbiological validation. 
4/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product specification 
• 
The product specification includes tests controlled by validated methods for appearance, identity (IR), 
identification of preservatives (HPLC), assay (HPLC), preservative content (HPLC), impurity content 
(HPLC), dissolution, uniformity of content, pH (PhEur), deliverable volume, redispersibility (HPLC) 
and microbial limit (PhEur). 
Batch  analysis  data  provided  for  3  production  batches  comply  with  the  specifications  and  indicate 
consistent and reproducible manufacture. 
Stability of the product 
• 
24-month long-term stability data (30°C/60 % RH - proposed commercial packaging) on 1 pilot-scale 
and 18-month data (25°C/40 % RH and 30°C/60 % RH- proposed commercial packaging horizontal 
position) on 3 production-scale batches have been provided. Accelerated data (40°C/75 % RH) have 
been provided up to 6 months. 
Photostability studies have shown that the finished product is non-light sensitive. A satisfactory in-use 
stability study has been performed. The data provided support the proposed shelf life, in-use shelf life 
and storage as defined in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
Bioequivalence between pharmaceutical forms  
• 
The oral suspension under fasting conditions delivered an equivalent plasma amprenavir (APV) AUC∞ 
and a 14% higher Cmax relative to the tablet formulation (means ratio: 1.145, 90% CI: 1.011-1.297) and 
therefore  the  suspension  should  be  administered  without  food  at  the  same  dose  as  the  film-coated 
tablets.  The  slight  difference  in  Cmax  is  not  considered  to  be  relevant  in  the  clinical  use  of  these 
products. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Fosamprenavir has little or no antiviral activity by itself and requires in-vivo metabolism to release the 
active  moiety  of  amprenavir.  Amprenavir  is  the  non-peptidic  competitive  inhibitor  of  the  HIV-
protease.  It  blocks  the  ability  of  the  viral  protease  to  process  viral  gag  and  gag-pol  polyprotein 
precursors, resulting in the formation of immature non-infectious viral particles.  
Early in the development, the disodium salt of fosamprenavir was used. However due to its superior 
pharmaceutical properties, the calcium salt was later used. This is the proposed form for commercial 
use.  
In  addition  to  the  non-clinical  studies  performed  with  fosamprenavir,  data  previously  obtained  with 
amprenavir, which are relevant for this application, have been submitted.  
All  definitive  toxicokinetics  and  toxicological  studies  were  claimed  to  be  performed  in  compliance 
with Good Laboratory Practices.  
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics 
As  the  antiviral  activity  of  amprenavir  has  previously  been  established,  new  virological  and 
pharmacological  studies  were  performed  to  demonstrate  the  lack  of  intrinsic  anti-HIV  activity  of 
fosamprenavir  calcium  salt  and  its  conversion  to  amprenavir  in  the  small  intestine.  The  general 
pharmacological activity and safety of fosamprenavir has also been investigated in a range of in-vitro 
and  in-vivo  studies.  Some  additional  studies  have  been  carried  out  with  amprenavir  to  complete  its 
general pharmacological profile. 
Overall, amprenavir is a potent non-peptide inhibitor of HIV-1 and HIV-2 protease with little effect on 
cellular aspartic protease. Against HIV-1 (HXB2) the mean inhibitor concentration (IC50) was  0.085 
µM. Anti-HIV-1 activity was demonstrated in both acutely and in chronically infected cells.  
5/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Fosamprenavir showed no significant inhibition of HIV protease with a constant inhibition (Ki) value 
of  20  nM  compared  to  0.04  for  amprenavir.  In  MT4  cells  infected  with  HIV-1  strain  IIIB, 
fosamprenavir  showed  negligible  antiviral  activity  with  IC50  of  1250  ±  381  nM  for  fosamprenavir 
versus  88  ±  10  nM  for  amprenavir.  As  the  efficacy  of  fosamprenavir  accounted  from  the  antiviral 
activity  of  amprenavir,  which  is  present  as  an  impurity  of  the  prodrug,  no  further  experiments  with 
other HIV-1 and HIV-2 strains were deemed necessary. 
Fosamprenavir had minimal cytotoxic effects on human bone marrow progenitor cells or immortalised 
T-cells lines.  
Fosamprenavir  and  amprenavir  had  minimal  effects  on  ligand  binding  to  over  60  receptors, 
transporters  or  enzymes  tested  at  plasma  concentration  up  to  10  µM,  equivalent  to  approximately  
5  µg/ml  amprenavir  or  6  µg/ml  free  acid  form.  Therefore  neither  compound  is  expected  to  cause 
secondary pharmacological effects through interaction at these sites. 
In vitro amprenavir had no effects on lipid metabolism in C3HIOTI/2 cells, in Hep G2 cells and rat 
hepatocytes. In addition amprenavir had minimal effects in vivo on the metabolic parameters tested in 
two strains of mice after subcutaneous implementation of continuous release pellets containing 60 mg 
amprenavir  for  2  weeks.  These  included  insulin  resistance  index,  markers  of  fat  metabolism  and 
markers of liver, kidney and heart/muscle function. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
Fosamprenavir  (sodium  salt)  did  not  cause  any  treatment-related  overt  effects  on  the  central  and 
peripheral nervous systems, the cardiovascular and respiratory systems in rats and dogs with doses up 
to 2000 mg/kg (1493 mg/kg amprenavir equivalents). 
In  vitro,  fosamprenavir  (calcium  salt)  showed  no  clinically  relevant  effects  on  the  action  potential 
duration  of  isolated  dog  Purkinje  fibres.  Studies  with  amprenavir  indicated  a  shortening  of  the 
repolarisation phase of the cardiac action potential, but these results were not observed in vivo in the 
dog toxicology studies. Neither compound had any effect on the hERG current in vitro. These results 
suggest  that  QTc  prolongation  would  not  be  seen  in  humans  following  administration  of 
fosamprenavir (calcium salt).  
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Specific studies investigating pharmacological drug interactions have not been performed however the 
results of the in-vitro receptor screen study indicate that potential interactions are unlikely. Moreover 
potential interactions with other medicinal products have been evaluated in clinical trials. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics profile of fosamprenavir has been defined in mice, rats, rabbits and beagle dogs. 
Studies aimed to describe the disposition and metabolism of both amprenavir and fosamprenavir (free 
ester)  following  oral  administration  of  the  calcium  salt  or  in  some  studies  the  disodium  salt. 
Toxicokinetics data derive from repeated dose toxicity studies. 
Fosamprenavir  (free  ester)  and  amprenavir  were  measured  in  biological  samples  using  adequate 
methods of assays. 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
In-vitro and in-vivo data were submitted to corroborate the hypothesis that fosamprenavir is primarily 
hydrolysed  to  amprenavir  in  the  intestinal  epithelia  by  an  intestinal  alkaline  phosphatase  and  not 
largely  absorbed.  These  data  further  support  the  hypothesis  that  the  safety  and  efficacy  profile  of 
fosamprenavir would be similar to amprenavir. An in-vitro study demonstrated that ritonavir did not 
inhibit  the  activity  of  a  human  intestinal  alkaline  phosphatase.  The  administration  of  low  dose  of 
ritonavir with fosamprenavir calcium salt is therefore not expected to significantly alter the conversion 
of fosamprenavir to amprenavir. 
6/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following  a  single  oral  administration  of  fosamprenavir  (calcium  salt),  amprenavir  was  rapidly 
absorbed in mice, rats and dogs with Tmax values of approximately 1 hour or less. 
The oral bioavailability of fosamprenavir (calcium salt) is very low as the hydrolysis to amprenavir is 
extensive. The absolute oral bioavailability is unknown but estimation has been made. The exposure to 
amprenavir following fosamprenavir (calcium salt) administration was approximately 60 or 80 % that 
following oral amprenavir administration in rats or dogs, respectively. Therefore, as the bioavailability 
is  40  and  
of  amprenavir 
100 %, the estimated oral bioavailability of amprenavir following oral administration of fosamprenavir 
(calcium salt) is approximately 25 % in rats and 80 % in dogs, respectively. 
following  oral  amprenavir  administration 
rats  and  dogs 
in 
On repeat oral administration of fosamprenavir (disodium or calcium salt) to mice, rats, rabbit or dogs, 
plasma  concentrations  of  fosamprenavir  (free  ester)  were  highly  variable;  no  consistent  pattern  of 
decrease  or  increase  in  systemic  exposure  to  fosamprenavir  (free  ester)  was  observed  over  time. 
Exposure ratios of fosamprenavir (free ester) to amprenavir were generally < 3 % in mice, < 2 % in 
rats  and  <  1  %  in  dogs,  indicating  extensive  conversion  during  absorption.  This  ratio  was  higher  in 
rabbit and increased in all species at the highest doses, showing a saturation of the conversion. 
Systemic  exposure  to  amprenavir  increased  in  a  generally  dose-related,  but  not  dose-proportional 
manner. In rats and  mice,  exposure  decreased  on  repeat  dosing  suggesting  autoinduction whereas  in 
dogs and rabbits exposure increased.  
There  was  no  effect  of  pregnancy  on  exposure  to  either  amprenavir  or  fosamprenavir  (free  ester)  in 
rats. However in pregnant rabbits exposure to amprenavir was dose-related, and increased in a greater 
than dose-proportional manner. 
Plasma  concentrations  of  amprenavir  and  fosamprenavir  (free  ester)  were  higher  after  oral 
administration in neonatal/juvenile rats compared to sexually mature rats. 
• 
Distribution 
As  in-vivo  whole  body  distribution  studies  had  already  been  carried  out  with  amprenavir  and  very 
little  fosamprenavir  (free  ester)  is  available  systematically,  these  studies  were  not  repeated  with  the 
calcium  salt.  After  oral  dosing,  amprenavir  was  found  primarily  in  the  organs  of  excretion  and 
metabolism. 
Plasma  protein  binding  of  fosamprenavir  (calcium  salt)  was  approximately  96  %  at  0.2  µg/ml.  The 
plasma  protein  binding  of  amprenavir  was  approximately  90%.  There  was  no  clinically  relevant 
protein binding interaction between amprenavir and fosamprenavir (free ester), or between amprenavir 
and its metabolites. 
• 
Metabolism and excretion 
The  metabolic  profiles  in  the  different  species  and  human  were  qualitatively  similar  and  similar  to 
those seen following administration of amprenavir.  
The metabolism in rats involved a di-oxidation on the tetrahydrofuran moiety of the molecule and an 
additional site of oxidation on the aniline ring portion of the molecule. 
Amprenavir  was  eliminated  mainly  by  hepatobiliary  processes  and  excreted  via  faeces  after 
administration  of  calcium  salt  (>  75  %).  Urinary  excretion  accounted  for  5.11,  2.63  or  13  %  of  the 
administered dose in  mice, rats or dogs, respectively. Excretion of unchanged amprenavir accounted 
for 11 % in mice, 17 % in rats and 28 % in dogs. Clearance was not measured and estimation of half- 
life was very variable. 
Studies  in  rats  and  mice  showed  that  fosamprenavir  (calcium  salt)  induced  CYP3A,  similar  to  the 
findings in rats with amprenavir. This is consistent with the toxicokinetics findings in these species, 
where  amprenavir  exposure  decreased  on  repeated  dosing.  In  dogs,  no  effect  on  CYP3A  was  noted 
following repeated administration of fosamprenavir (calcium salt), although a weak inductive effect on 
CYP2B was seen. 
7/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contamination  of  the  control  samples  occurred  in  many  studies  during  the  preclinical  development. 
An investigation suggested that it occurred during sampling or analysis. It was however accepted that 
the  generally  low  levels  of  fosamprenavir  (free  ester)  or  amprenavir  in  a  small  number  of  control 
samples  did  not  affect  the  toxicokinetics  evaluation  of  the  studies.  Specific  measures  have 
nevertheless  been 
to  prevent  further 
contamination.  
the  ongoing  carcinogenicity  studies 
implemented 
in 
Toxicology 
A complete toxicological programme was performed with fosamprenavir since the impurity profile of 
the calcium salt of the prodrug differs from the one of amprenavir. This is a consequence of different 
chemical  processes  employed  during  the  manufacture  of  the  two  compounds.  In  addition, 
fosamprenavir is not completely hydrolysed to amprenavir, and the prodrug has been detected at low 
levels  (<  0.6  %  of  amprenavir  AUC)  systemically  in  humans  following  dosing  at  the  proposed 
therapeutic dose.  
This  programme  included  single  dose  studies  (mice  and  rats),  repeated  dose  studies  (rats  up  to 
6 months and dogs up to 9 months), genotoxicity and reproductive and developmental toxicity studies 
(rats  and  rabbits).  Carcinogenicity  studies  with  fosamprenavir  (calcium  salt)  are  ongoing  in  rats  and 
mice. Other toxicity studies included local tolerance (eye and dermal irritancy in the rabbit) potential 
sensitisation  in  the  guinea  pig,  immunotoxicity  and  impurities.  The  toxicity  in  juvenile  animals  has 
also been evaluated.  
Although  the  majority  of  studies  were  conducted  with  fosamprenavir  as  calcium  salt,  some  initial 
studies  used  the  disodium  salt.  These  initial  studies  were  not  repeated  as  they  were  superseded  by 
studies using the calcium salt at higher doses and for longer duration. The definitive intravenous single 
dose studies were all conducted with the disodium salt because of its high solubility in saline. 
Although fosamprenavir is to be used with low dose of ritonavir, the combination was not tested in the 
toxicological studies. This was however considered acceptable in view of the clinical safety profile in 
patients  receiving  fosamprenavir  (calcium  salt)  with  or  without  low  dose  ritonavir  and  the 
toxicological  profiles  for  the  individual  compounds,  which  do  not  suggest  novel  toxicities  for  the 
combination. 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
After oral administration, fosamprenavir either as the disodium salt or calcium salt showed low acute 
toxicity in mice and rats. The maximum non-lethal dose was > 2000 mg/kg (1493 mg/kg amprenavir 
equivalents) and > 2986 mg/kg (2000 mg/kg amprenavir equivalent dose) respectively in both species. 
After intravenous administration of fosamprenavir as the disodium salt, ataxia and decreased activity 
were the most noticeable signs of toxicity. The maximum non-lethal dose was 217 mg/kg in mice and 
female  rats  (160  mg/kg  amprenavir  equivalents)  and  347  mg/kg  (256  mg/kg  amprenavir  equivalent 
dose) in male rats. 
• 
Repeated dose toxicity  
Repeated dose toxicity studies were conducted in rats (2 weeks, 1 and 6 months) and in dogs (2 weeks, 
1 and 9 months). The 2 weeks rat and dog studies were conducted with the disodium salt administered 
orally.  In  the  other  studies,  the  calcium  salt  was  used.  Doses  ranging  from  149  mg/kg  (100  mg/kg 
amprenavir  equivalent)  to  2240  mg/kg  (1500  mg/kg  amprenavir  equivalent)  of  fosamprenavir  as 
calcium salt have been tested in rats in the 1 and 6 months studies. Doses ranging from 75 mg/kg (50 
mg/kg amprenavir equivalent) to 337 mg/kg (225 mg/kg amprenavir equivalent) of fosamprenavir as 
calcium salt have been tested in dogs in the 9 months studies. 
The  major  target  organ  in  rats  and  dogs  was  the  liver.  In  rats,  there  were  changes  in  serum  clinical 
chemistry  including  increased  cholesterol,  decreased  triglycerides,  and,  in  the  6-month  study, 
increased  serum  activity  of  AST,  ALT,  GD  and  GGT.  The  activity  of  AST,  ALT  and  GD  was 
generally  higher  at  the  end  of  the  recovery  period  than  it  was  during  the  dosing  period.  Treatment 
8/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased  hepatocyte  pigment, 
related increases in absolute (4 to 61 %) and relative (3 to 69 %) liver weights occurred in all studies. 
Microscopic findings were generally associated with increased liver weights (hepatocyte hypertrophy 
in the short-term studies, and in long-term studies  multinucleated hepatocytes, individual hepatocyte 
necrosis, 
increased  Kupffer  cell  pigment  and  hepatocellular 
vacuolation).  Following  the  recovery  period  in  rats,  the  increased  liver  weights  and  most  of  the 
microscopic liver findings were improving but were not completely recovered to control levels.  
In  dogs,  increases  (23  to  272  %)  in  serum  alkaline  phosphatase  concentrations  were  consistently 
observed in all the long-term studies. ALT was also increased in the 9-month study only. Increases in 
liver weights were observed in the 14-day and 4-week studies but not in the 9-month study. The only 
significant  microscopic  finding  was  hepatocellular  pigment  in  the  9-month  study.  Following  the 
recovery  period,  the  increased  liver  weights  were  improving  but  were  not  completely  recovered  to 
control  levels.  The  microscopic  liver  findings  did  not  recover.  Although  the  mechanism  behind  the 
AST  and  ALT  augmentation  at  the  end  of  the  recovery  period  is  unknown,  no  liver  toxicity  is 
anticipated with the clinical use of fosamprenavir as until now no liver toxicity has been noted after 
treatment with amprenavir. 
In  rats,  there  were  consistent  haematological  changes  between  the  4-week  and  6-month  studies 
including small decreases (1 to 8%) in haematocrit and haemoglobin, and an increase (7 to 25 %) in 
platelet count. All of these changes appeared to improve during the recovery period, but did not fully 
recover. In the 6-month study, haematological changes occurred in both male and female rats at doses 
≥  478 mg/kg/day  (320 mg/kg/day  amprenavir  equivalents).  In  the  dog,  no  haematological  changes 
were directly attributed to the administration of fosamprenavir (calcium salt).  
In  dogs,  salivation,  vomiting  and  faecal  alterations  (soft  to  liquid  faeces)  occurred  consistently 
throughout all studies. In the 9-month study, some animals in the highest dose group deteriorated to 
such  an  extent  that  they  were  euthanised  prior  to  the  end  of  the  treatment  period,  and  the  two  high 
dose groups were combined and the dose level reduced. These were not considered serious events and 
were reversible on discontinuation of treatment. 
Myocardial changes in rats were observed in some studies however a further analysis of the preclinical 
data  did  not  reveal  statistically  significant  myocardial  effect  and  there  was  no  effect  in  the  6-month 
study. Furthermore, clinical data do not suggest that fosamprenavir has a cardiac effect, however this 
will be monitored post-authorisation.       
Animals were poorly exposed to amprenavir after fosamprenavir (calcium salt) administration: 0.7 to 
1.3  fold  compared  to  human  exposure  at  the  maximum  dosage  used  in  the  6-month  study  in  rats  
(2240 mg/kg/day equivalent to 1500 mg/kg/day amprenavir), and 1.9 to 3.1 fold in the 9-month study 
in dogs (337 mg/kg/day equivalent to 225 mg/kg/day amprenavir). However, animals were exposed to 
a much higher extent to fosamprenavir (calcium salt) as compared to humans (45 to 76 fold the human 
exposure for rats, and 23 to 68 fold for dogs), thus correctly addressing the toxicity of fosamprenavir.  
In  the  rat  pivotal  6-month  study,  the  NOAEL  found  was  149  mg/kg  (0.2  to  0.3  fold  compared  to 
human  exposure  for  amprenavir;  1.3  to  11  fold  compared  to  human  exposure  for  fosamprenavir 
(calcium salt)). In the dog pivotal 9-month  study, no NOAEL  could be established. However, at the 
lowest dosage used (75 mg/kg) toxicity consisted mainly in hepatocellular pigmentation. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
Fosamprenavir was not mutagenic in bacterial or mammalian mutagenicity assays. Fosamprenavir was 
not  clastogenic  in  the  in-vivo  micronucleus  test  in  rats  (doses  up  to  2290  mg/kg/day  equivalent  to 
2000 mg/kg/day amprenavir). However, in this test fosamprenavir was administered by the oral route, 
resulting to exposure in animals close to the one achieved in humans (3.8 fold for fosamprenavir and 
1.6 fold for amprenavir). An additional test was performed where rats received 50 mg or  
150  mg/kg/day  fosamprenavir  administered  by  the  intravenous  route  to  maximise  exposure  to  both, 
using the soluble disodium salt instead of the calcium salt to be used in clinic to get a better animal 
exposure. The results were negative. In addition, an in-vitro mouse lymphoma assay using the calcium 
salt was carried out at concentration up to 576.9 µg/ml confirming the lack of clastogenic potential.  
9/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Carcinogenicity  
Carcinogenicity  studies  with  the  calcium  salt  are  currently  ongoing  in  rats  and  mice.  In  view  of  the 
clinical  experience  with  amprenavir,  which  has  not  raised  any  concern  in  relation  to  any 
carcinogenicity  potential,  the  results  from  the  carcinogenicity  studies  obtained  previously  with 
amprenavir,  and  the  therapeutic  indication,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the  lack  of  results  should  not 
preclude the granting of the marketing authorisation. Final results will however be submitted as part of 
the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation.  Of  note,  data  obtained  with  amprenavir 
showed  that  it  caused  hepatocellular  adenomas  in  male  rats  and  mice  but  these  findings  were 
considered  being  part  of  the  continuum  of  hepatic  findings  noted  in  rodents  and  dogs  during  the 
amprenavir non-clinical development programme.  
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Fertility studies in rats did not reveal any treatment related adverse effects on reproductive functions. 
In  females,  at  the  high  dose  (2240  mg/kg/day  corresponding  to  1498  mg/kg/day  amprenavir 
equivalents),  there  was  a  reduction  in  the  weight  of  gravid  uterus  (0  to  16  %),  probably  due  to  a 
reduction of the number of ovarian corporea lutea and implantations. 
There  was  no  evidence  of  embryo-foetal  toxicity  in  rats,  but  at  the  high  dose  (2240  mg/kg/day  or  
1498  mg/kg/day  amprenavir  equivalents)  exposure  was  lower  than  the  expected  human  exposure.  
In  rabbits,  no  overt  teratogenicity  was  noted,  but  there  was  a  positive  trend  for  foetal  soft  tissue 
variations including small or missing intermediate lung lobe in the high dose group although these are 
likely to be due to maternal toxicity which occurred at low exposure levels. In this study, even at high 
dose (672.8 or 450 mg/kg/day amprenavir equivalents), exposure to amprenavir was only 0.3 fold that 
seen in humans administered the maximum proposed clinical dose.  
In the pre and postnatal study in rats, fosamprenavir (calcium salt) caused a reduction in pup survival 
and weight at the high dose (2240 mg/kg/day or 1498 mg/kg/day amprenavir equivalents). Deceased 
pups often showed diminished milk content of the stomach. There were also signs of delayed physical 
and functional development. After pups reached maturity and were mated, reproductive effects were 
observed including a decreased number of implantation sites per litter and a prolongation of gestation. 
No safety margin could be established due to the limited systemic exposure in animals. 
Overall,  fosamprenavir  should  be  used  during  pregnancy,  only  if  the  potential  benefit  to  the  mother 
justifies the potential risk to the foetus. In addition, fosamprenavir should not be recommended during 
lactation.  
• 
Other toxicity studies  
Fosamprenavir  (calcium  salt)  did  not  cause  any  irritation  when  applied  to  the  rabbit  eye  but  was 
classified as a mild irritant to rabbit skin. It showed no sensitising potential in guinea pigs.  
A  28  days  immunotoxicity  study  was  conducted  in  rats  given  orally  doses  of  0,  300  and  1500 
mg/kg/day of fosamprenavir calcium salt. There was no alteration of the primary antibody response to 
keyhole limpet hemocyanin. Fosamprenavir was not immunotoxic.  
Neither  amprenavir  nor  fosamprenavir  (calcium  salt)  at  toxicological  or  therapeutic  concentrations 
interfered with assays for liver function. 
All  the  specified  impurities  in  fosamprenavir  calcium  salt  have  been  adequately  toxicologically 
quantified. 
The toxicity of fosamprenavir (calcium salt) was studied in juvenile rats (starting at 4 days of age) up 
to  13  weeks,  with  doses  ranging  from  100  to  300  mg/kg/day  (71  to  213  mg/kg/day  amprenavir 
equivalents).  The  findings  were  similar  to  those  seen  in  adult  rats.  There  was  an  increase  in  liver 
weight,  but  with  less  microscopic  effects,  and  an  increase  in  plasma  cholesterol  and  number  of 
platelets.  The  NOAEL  was  175  mg/kg/day.  However  in  contrast  to  adult  rats,  there  were  also  some 
10/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effects  on  the  kidney  (hyaline  droplets  and  increased  weight  in  males).  The  applicant  undertook  to 
further  investigate  the  nature  of  hyaline  droplets  and  discuss  the  relevance  of  these  observations  to 
humans. 
• 
Environmental risk assessment 
An assessment of the risk was performed and no significant risk to the environment related to the use 
of fosamprenavir is anticipated. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The clinical programme consisted of: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
studies  aiming  to  characterise  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  fosamprenavir  following  single 
and multiple administration with or without ritonavir; 
a phase II study (APV 20001) to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and antiviral 
effect  of  two  doses  of  fosamprenavir  BID  compared  with  amprenavir  BID  in  HIV-1  infected 
patients; 
Two  phase  III  studies  in  antiretroviral  naïve  patients:  study  APV  30001  where  fosamprenavir 
(1400  mg  BID)  was  non  boosted  with  ritonavir  and  study  APV  30002  where  fosamprenavir 
1400 mg was boosted with ritonavir low doses (200 mg) once daily; 
One  phase  III  study 
in  antiretroviral  experienced  patients:  study  APV30003  using 
fosamprenavir  boosted  with  low  doses  of  ritonavir.  Both  once  and  twice  daily  regimens  were 
explored (1400 /200 mg OD and 700/100 mg BID of fosamprenavir/ritonavir).  
Preliminary  data  of  a  phase  III  study  in  multi-experienced  patients  have  also  been  submitted  (study 
40003).  In  addition,  as  fosamprenavir  is  the  prodrug  of  amprenavir,  an  antiretroviral  agent  already 
authorised,  clinical  data  previously  obtained  with  amprenavir  relevant  to  this  application  have  been 
provided to support the clinical efficacy and safety. 
The applicant claimed that all studies were performed according to Good Clinical Practices. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
As already mentioned in section 3.3 of this document, fosamprenavir is the phosphate ester prodrug of 
amprenavir. Per se, it has little or no antiretroviral activity but requires in-vivo metabolism to release 
the active moiety, amprenavir, which is a selective inhibitor of HIV-1 and HIV-2 replication. 
• 
Resistance in vitro 
HIV-1 isolates with a decreased susceptibility to amprenavir have been selected in vitro. In vitro serial 
passage  experiments  have  demonstrated  that  I50V  was  the  key  protease  mutation  associated  with 
amprenavir  resistance.  Mutation  I84V  was  observed  transiently.  More  recently,  protease  mutations 
I54M and V32I + I47V have also been identified during serial passage in the presence of amprenavir. 
Genotypic  analysis  of  isolates  from  patients  receiving  amprenavir  identified  mutations  in  the  HIV-1 
protease gene resulting in amino acid substitutions primarily at positions V32I, M46I/L, I47V, I50V, 
I54L/M, and I84V, as well as mutations in the p7/p1 and p1/p6 gag and gag-pol polyprotein precursor 
cleavage sites.  
11/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotypic and phenotypic susceptibility analysis have been performed in the main clinical studies, 
clinical trials (APV 30002, 30001 and 30003), and the results are presented under the discussion of 
clinical efficacy of these studies. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and antiretroviral activity 
The  antiviral  effect  of  fosamprenavir  and  its  relationship  to  the  dose  was  assessed  in  antiretroviral 
naïve patients (study APV20001), which is further discussed under the dose ranging studies. 
In antiretroviral-experienced patients (study APV30003), no relationship was established between the 
individual average plasma amprenavir C min values or individual average plasma Cmin /IC
 values to 
the efficacy endpoints. 
50
In  this  study  administration  of  fosamprenavir  700  mg  twice  daily  with  ritonavir  100 mg  twice  daily 
resulted  in  plasma  amprenavir  trough  concentrations  (geometric  mean  Cmin  1.74µg/ml)  above  the 
median IC50 value reported in this study (0.008 µg/ml [0.001-0.144]). 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  was  determined  in  a  series  of  studies  mainly  in  healthy  volunteers 
following  single  and  multiple  dose  administration  of  fosamprenavir  with  or  without  low  dose  of 
ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. 
After  a  clean-up  step  (solid  phase-extraction,  protein  precipitation)  samples  were  analysed  by 
HPLC/MS/MS. 
• 
Absorption - Distribution 
Preclinical studies showed that fosamprenavir is almost completely (99 %) hydrolysed to amprenavir 
at or near the intestinal membrane via alkaline phosphatase prior to reaching the systemic circulation. 
The  rapid  and  extensive  conversion  of  fosamprenavir  to  amprenavir  has  been  confirmed  in  clinical 
studies  (equimolar  doses  of  fosamprenavir  and  amprenavir  achieved  equivalent  amprenavir  AUC 
values and the fosamprenavir AUC was < 0.6 % of corresponding amprenavir AUC). 
Maximum amprenavir peak plasma concentrations were observed approximately 2 hours after single 
and multiple dose administration of fosamprenavir.  
The absolute bioavailability of fosamprenavir in humans has not been established.  
A  greater  than  proportional  increase  in  plasma  amprenavir  AUC∞  was  observed  following 
fosamprenavir single dose administration of 1395 mg and 1860 mg (AUC∞ /dose ratio: 0.019 for the 
1395 mg dose and 0.026 for the 1860 mg dose). 
Upon repeat dosing of fosamprenavir 1395 mg (molar equivalent of 1200 mg of amprenavir) BID to 
HIV-infected  patients  a  decrease  in  amprenavir  AUC  at  steady-state  was  observed  compared  with 
single dose administration (AUCτ,ss,: 16.5h*µg/ml versus AUC∞: 22.8h*µg/ml). 
There  were  no  substantial  differences  in  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  fosamprenavir  in  healthy 
volunteers versus in HIV-infected patients. 
The  addition  of  ritonavir  100  mg  BID  to  fosamprenavir  700  mg  BID  for  14-days  increased  plasma 
amprenavir  Cmax,ss  by  approximately  51  %,  plasma  amprenavir  AUCτ,ss  by  3.4-fold  and  Cτ,ss  by 
12.7-fold compared to values observed after administration of the same dose of fosamprenavir without 
ritonavir.  
When  compared  to  the  once  daily  regimen  (fosamprenavir  1400  mg  +  ritonavir  200  mg),  the  BID 
regimen (fosamprenavir 700 mg + ritonavir 100 mg BID) showed higher amprenavir AUCτ,ss, higher 
Cmin (20-30 %) but lower Cmax (20-30 %). These improved pharmacokinetics parameters favour a BID 
regimen. 
12/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Food did not alter the pharmacokinetics of fosamprenavir when administered as a tablet with ritonavir 
and therefore tablets can be taken regardless of food intake. 
In  contrast  a  high  fat  meal  taken  with  fosamprenavir  oral  suspension  reduced  the  exposure  to 
amprenavir  compared  to  fasted  state  (decrease  of  AUC  by  approximately  29  %  and  Cmax  46  %). 
Therefore the suspension should be administered without food at the same dose as the oral tablet. 
It has been demonstrated in vitro that amprenavir is a substrate for the counter-transport protein P-
glycoprotein. 
The  apparent  oral  volume  of  distribution  of  amprenavir  is  approximately  430l  suggesting  that  it 
penetrates  freely  into  tissues  beyond  the  systemic  circulation.  This  value  is  decreased  when  co-
administered  with  ritonavir  by  approximately  40%,  most  likely  due  to  an  increase  in  amprenavir 
bioavailability. In vitro the plasma protein binding of amprenavir is approximately 90 %, mainly to α1-
acid-glycoprotein (AAG) and to a lesser extent to human serum albumin (HSA). 
Limited data indicate that amprenavir penetrates into semen. The cerebrospinal spinal fluid to plasma 
concentration ratio was < 1 %, indicating a poor penetration.  
• 
Metabolism – Elimination 
Amprenavir  is  primarily  metabolised  by  the  liver.  As  demonstrated  in  vitro,  the  metabolism  is  via 
cytochrome P450, mainly CYP 3A4 isoenzyme. Amprenavir also inhibits CYP3A4 and potentially is a 
mild CYP3A4 inducer. 
The  elimination  pathway  for  amprenavir  is  mainly  through  the  faeces.  Total  recovery  of  a  600  mg 
dose was 89 % (range 66-93 %) primarily as oxidative metabolites in the urine (approximately 14 %) 
and in faeces (approximately 75 %). Total excretion of amprenavir in the urine over 24 hours was less 
than  1  %  of  the  administered  dose.  Plasma  elimination  half-life  of  amprenavir,  after  fosamprenavir 
administration 
is  comparable  to  that  after  amprenavir 
administration. When fosamprenavir is boosted with low dose of ritonavir, the half-life of amprenavir 
is increased to 15-23 hours.  
is  approximately  7.7  hours,  which 
• 
Comparison between the clinical trials formulation with the formulations to be marketed 
In the early studies, the disodium and the calcium salts were administered both as an oral suspension. 
The calcium salt 1728 mg (equivalent to 1395 mg fosamprenavir) that delivered an equivalent plasma 
amprenavir  AUC∞,  and  a  27  %  lower  Cmax  than  amprenavir  1200  mg  was  selected  for  further 
development. 
With  regard  to  700  mg  film-coated  tablet,  as  already  mentioned  in  the  Quality  section  of  this 
document,  three  variants  A,  B,  C  have  been  used  in  the  clinical  development  programme 
corresponding to  differences in drug substance and  drug  product scale  up and in the drug substance 
particle size. There was a concern that the mix of these different variants of different exposure (variant 
B  and  C  exhibiting  lower  plasma  amprenavir  exposures:  13  and  16  %  in  comparison  to  variant  A) 
might  have  influenced  the  efficacy  demonstration.  To  address  this  concern,  the  applicant  conducted 
one study (APV10021) showing that scale up of the drug product had no impact in-vivo (see table 1). 
Table 1: APV10021 Bioequivalence Analysis 
GLS Mean N = 78 
GLS Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
Treatment A1 
(Tablet Variant A) 
Treatment B2 
(Tablet new Variant A) 
Treatment B/A 
AUC∞ (µg.h/ml) 
AUClast  (µg.h/ml) 
Cmax (µg/ml) 
23.76 
22.51 
5.15 
24.12 
23.05 
5.38 
1.02  (0.97-1.06) 
1.02  (0.98-1.07) 
1.04 (0.98-1.11) 
1 Treatment A: 2 oral film-coated 700mg tablets (variant A used in APV 10015), unmilled drug substance manufactured at 45 kg 
scale and drug product manufactured at pilot scale 
2Treatment B: 2 oral film-coated 700mg tablets (new variant A), unmilled drug substance manufactured at 45 kg scale and drug product 
manufactured at production scale 
13/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition  the  applicant  performed  a  randomised,  open-label,  two-period,  balanced  crossover  study 
(APV10029)  which  compared  the  steady-state  plasma  amprenavir  pharmacokinetics  between 
fosamprenavir  Tablet  Variants  A  and  C,  when  each  was  administered  as  1400  mg  once  daily  in 
combination with ritonavir 200 mg once daily in healthy volunteers. As displayed in table 2, steady-
state  plasma  amprenavir  Cmax,  AUC(0-τ),  and  Cτ  values  were  equivalent  for  fosamprenavir  Tablet 
Variants A and C under these conditions. 
Table 2: APV10029 Bioequivalence Analysis 
Plasma APV Steady-State 
PK Parameter 
GLS Mean 
N=70 
GLS Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
Treatment B/A 
Treatment A1 
(Tablet new Variant A) 
65.38 
7.21 
1.26 
Treatment B2 
(Tablet Variant C) 
64.50 
7.24 
1.21 
AUC(0-τ) (µg.h/ml) 
Cmax (µg/ml) 
Cτ (µg/ml) 
1 Treatment A: 2 oral film-coated 700mg tablets OD, unmilled drug substance manufactured at 45kg scale and drug  
product manufactured at production scale (new Variant A), plus ritonavir 200mg OD for 14 days  
2 Treatment B: 2 oral film-coated 700mg tablets OD, milled drug substance manufactured at 200kg scale and tablets manufactured  
at production scale (Variant C), plus RTV 200mg OD for 14 days. 
0.99 (0.96-1.02) 
1.00 (0.97-1.04) 
0.96 (0.92-1.01) 
No  clinical  impact  from  the  concomitant  use  of  the  different  variants  is  therefore  expected  in  the 
pivotal studies APV30002 and APV30003 since fosamprenavir was boosted with ritonavir. Only tablet 
variant  C  will  be  marketed  which  is  acceptable  as  fosamprenavir  is  recommended  to  be  used  with 
ritonavir. 
The oral suspension delivered an equivalent plasma amprenavir AUC∞ and a 14% higher Cmax relative 
to the tablet formulation under fasting conditions (means ratio: 1.145, 90 % CI: 1.011-1.297). 
• 
Special populations 
Pooled data from the different studies did not reveal any influence of gender, race, weight or age on 
the pharmacokinetics of fosamprenavir. 
Pharmacokinetics  studies  in  paediatric  population  using  the  oral  suspension  are  ongoing  and  the 
results will be submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
No specific studies have been performed in the elderly. 
Considering the small portion of the dose recovered in the urine, no specific study was performed in 
patients with renal impairment and no dosage adjustment is considered necessary in these patients as 
mentioned in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
There are currently no data in patients with hepatic impairment. Therefore fosamprenavir boosted with 
ritonavir should be administered with caution in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment 
and  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment.  Data  to  support  the  use  of 
fosamprenavir in patients with various degrees of hepatic impairment will be submitted as part of the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
• 
Interaction studies 
Amprenavir  and  ritonavir  are  both  substrate  and  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4,  with  ritonavir  being  more 
potent inhibitor than amprenavir. Amprenavir is potentially a mild CYP3A4 inducer and is a substrate 
and inducer of P-gp. Ritonavir also inhibits CYP2D6 and induces CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2C9 and 
glucuronosyl transferase. Fosamprenavir solubility is also significantly reduced at pH greater than 5. 
Therefore  co-administration  of  fosamprenavir/ritonavir  with  substances  that  interact  with  CYP450,  
P-gp or that increases gastrointestinal pH may result in interaction. Several studies have therefore been 
performed and the main findings can be summarised as follows: 
14/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction with antiretroviral medicinal products 
Efavirenz 
When efavirenz 600 mg is co-administered with fosamprenavir boosted with ritonavir as a once daily 
regimen,  there  was  a  decreased  in  plasma  amprenavir  Cmin  by  36  %  while  AUC  and  Cmax  were  not 
significantly altered. However when fosamprenavir 700 mg BID with ritonavir 100 mg BID was used 
concomitantly  with  efavirenz  there  was  no  clinically  relevant  interaction,  even  if  slightly  trough 
amprenavir values were lower (-17 %). No dosage adjustment is therefore considered necessary when 
the recommended fosamprenavir twice-daily dosing regimen boosted with ritonavir is co-administered 
with efavirenz.  
Lopinavir/ritonavir 
Co-administration  of  fosamprenavir  (700  mg  BID)  boosted  with  ritonavir  (100  mg  BID)  with 
lopinavir/ritonavir  (400  mg/100  mg)  resulted  in  reduced  Cmax  (-  58  %),  AUC  (-  63  %)  and  Cmin  
(- 65 %) of amprenavir and in increased lopinavir Cmax (+ 30 %), AUC (+ 37 %) and Cmin (+ 52 %). 
When fosamprenavir (without ritonavir) (1400mg BID) was co-administered with lopinavir/ritonavir 
at  increased  dose  (lopinavir/ritonavir  533/33  mg  BID)  there  was  no  alteration  of  lopinavir 
pharmacokinetic parameters however there was also a decrease in Cmax (- 13 %), AUC (- 26 %) and 
Cmin (- 42 %) of amprenavir. 
A further investigation has been performed with three different regimens: 
fosamprenavir 700mg BID + lopinavir 400mg/ritonavir 100mg BID 
1) 
fosamprenavir  700mg  BID  +  ritonavir  100mg  BID  administered  4  hours  prior  to  lopinavir 
2) 
400mg/ritonavir 100mg BID 
fosamprenavir  1400mg  OD  +  ritonavir  200mg  OD  administered  12  hours  prior  to  lopinavir 
800mg/ritonavir 200mg OD.  
3) 
Preliminary  data  suggest  that  for  all  three  regimens,  plasma  amprenavir  concentrations  were  lower 
than historical control data for fosamprenavir 700 mg BID with ritonavir 100 mg BID. The treatments 
that  included  separation  of  dosing  along  with  increased  ritonavir  doses  did  not  appear  to  improve 
plasma amprenavir pharmacokinetics, although lopinavir concentrations appeared to be maintained. 
Overall, these studies do not allow drawing adequate dosage recommendations. In-vitro investigations 
suggest that induction and inhibition of metabolic and potentially transport processes play a role in the 
potential  mechanism  for  this  interaction.  As  some  heavily  treatment-experienced  patients  might 
benefit from a salvage regimen containing lopinavir/ritonavir and fosamprenavir these data have been 
reflected  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  highlighting  that  appropriate  dose  of  the 
combination has not yet been defined in terms of efficacy and safety. 
Potential  interaction  between  fosamprenavir  boosted  with  ritonavir  and  other  protease  inhibitors  has 
not be studied.  
Nevirapine 
Based  on  its  effects  on  other  protease  inhibitors,  nevirapine  might  decrease  serum  concentration  of 
amprenavir when co-administered with fosamprenavir boosted with ritonavir. Therefore the applicant 
is committed to perform an interaction study to establish an appropriate dosage recommendation, the 
results of which will be submitted post-authorisation. 
No  specific  interaction  study  has  been  performed  with  NRTIs,  however  the  applicant  undertook  to 
provide data on the co-administration between fosamprenavir with ritonavir and tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate, as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
Interaction with other medicinal products 
Antacid suspension and ranitidine 
Both  antiacid  suspension  (equivalent  to  3.6  grams  aluminium  hydroxide  and  1.8  grams  magnesium 
hydroxide)  and  ranitidine  (300  mg  single  dose)  decreased  amprenavir  AUC  by  18  %  and  30  %  and 
Cmax  by  35  %  and  51  %  respectively  when  fosamprenavir  (1400  mg)  was  co-administered  without 
ritonavir. However, no dosage adjustments are considered necessary since Cmin was not altered.  
This  also  applies  to  proton  pump  inhibitors,  which  are  expected  to  modify  the  amprenavir 
pharmacokinetics parameters to the same extent. 
15/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atorvastatin 
Fosamprenavir with ritonavir (700 mg + 100 mg BID for 2 weeks) co-administered with atorvastatine 
(10  mg  once  daily  for  4  days)  did  not  alter  the  Cmax,  AUC  and  Cmin  of  amprenavir  whereas 
atorvastatine Cmax (+184 %), AUC (+130 %), Cmin (+73 %) were markedly increased. A dose reduction 
of atorvastatine is therefore recommended with careful monitoring for atorvastatine toxicity. 
Other interactions 
By extrapolation from the data previously obtained with amprenavir, grapefruit juice is not expected to 
significantly alter amprenavir pharmacokinetics, as stated in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Additional  interactions  studies  of  fosamprenavir  boosted  with  ritonavir  with  oral  contraceptives, 
ketoconazole, rifabutin and methadone will be performed by the applicant, the results of which will be 
submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Clinical efficacy  
An overview of the main clinical studies submitted to support the efficacy and safety of fosamprenavir 
in HIV infected adults is displayed in table 3. 
Table 3: Overview of main clinical studies with fosamprenavir  
Population 
Treatment 
N Treated patients 
Endpoint 
Study 
Main studies 
APV30002 
908 boosted with 
RTV and OD 
Antiretroviral naïve 
patients 
APV30001 
(supportive)  
908 unboosted and 
BID 
Antiretroviral naïve 
patients 
APV30003 
908 boosted with 
RTV  
OD or BID 
Antiretroviral 
experienced patients 
908/RTV N=322 
NFV N=327 
908 N=166 
NFV N=83 
908/RTVOD N=105 
908/RTVBID N=107 
LPV/RTV N=103 
Treatment 1: 
908 1400mg OD + 
RTV 200mg OD + 
ABC 300mg BID + 
LAM 150mg BID 
Treatment 2: 
NFV 1250mg BID + 
ABC 300mg BID + 
LAM 150mg BID 
Treatment 1: 
908 1400mg BID + 
ABC 300mg BID + 
LAM 150mg BID 
Treatment 2: 
NFV 1250mg BID + 
ABC 300mg BID + 
LAM 150mg BID 
Treatment 1: 
908 700mg BID + 
RTV 100mg BID + 
two active RTIs 
Treatment 2: 
908 1400mg OD + 
RTV 200mg OD + 
two active RTIs 
Treatment 3: 
LPV 400mg/RTV 
100mg BID +  
two active RTIs 
A lower limit of the 
95% confidence 
interval of the 
difference between 
908/RTV and NFV in 
term of % of patients 
with undetectable viral 
load LOQ 400 
copies/ml at 48 weeks 
of greater than –12% 
would demonstrate non 
inferiority 
With an upper limit of 
the 95% confidence 
interval for the 
difference between 908 
and NFV in mean 
AAUCMB less than 
0.5 log10 copies/ml, 
non inferiority would 
be demonstrated at 48 
weeks. 
With an upper limit of 
97.5% confidence 
interval of the 
difference in mean 
AAUCMB for log10 
plasma HIV-1 RNA at 
24 and 48 weeks less 
than 0.5 log10 copies/ml 
between 908/RTV OD 
and LPV/RTV and 
908/RTV BID and 
LPV/RTV would 
demonstrate non 
inferiority). 
908 = fosamprenavir; RTV = ritonavir; NFV = nelfinavir; ABC = abacavir; LAM = lamivudine and LPV = lopinavir; OD = once daily; BID  
= twice daily and LOQ = Limit of quantification; AAUCMB = Average area under the curve minus baseline. 
16/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Dose response study(ies) 
Considering that fosamprenavir is a prodrug of amprenavir, the dose selection was mainly supported 
by comparison between fosamprenavir and amprenavir.  
A  relationship  between  plasma  amprenavir  exposure  following  fosamprenavir  administration  and 
antiviral  activity  was  first  established  in  study  APV20001.  This  study  demonstrated  that  both 
fosamprenavir  doses  1395  mg  (molar  equivalent  to  1200  mg  of  amprenavir)  or  1860  mg  (molar 
equivalent 
to  1600  mg  of  amprenavir)  BID  delivered  plasma  steady  state  amprenavir 
pharmacokinetics, short term (4 week) safety and antiviral activity (around 2 log copies/ml reduction 
in HIV plasma RNA concentrations) comparable to 1200 mg amprenavir BID when administered with 
abacavir 300 mg BID and lamivudine 300 mg BID in HIV infected patients. 
A  new  dosage  regimen  for  amprenavir  has  been  recommended  to  maximise  plasma  exposures: 
amprenavir 600 mg boosted with 100 mg ritonavir. The chosen dosing regimen studied in the phase III 
studies (700 mg fosamprenavir + 100 mg ritonavir BID or 1400 mg fosamprenavir + 200 mg ritonavir 
OD) was therefore based on a molar equivalent dose with 600 mg amprenavir +100 mg ritonavir BID 
or 1200 mg amprenavir + 200 mg ritonavir OD. However there was a concern pertaining to the dose 
justification  mainly  based  on  extrapolation  from  pharmacokinetics  data  with  amprenavir  unboosted 
with ritonavir and to the lack of direct comparison between amprenavir + ritonavir and fosamprenavir 
+ ritonavir.  
This  concern  was  addressed  by  the  provision  of  study  APV10022,  a  phase  I,  multiple-dose, 
randomised, open-label, two-period, four-arm, balanced crossover study in which amprenavir (600 mg 
BID) was given with and without ritonavir (100 mg BID) and compared with fosamprenavir (700 mg 
BID) with and without ritonavir (100 mg BID) for 14 days. 
Results,  as  displayed  in  the  table  4  below,  showed  comparable  pharmacokinetic  exposure  achieved 
trough 
between  amprenavir  and  fosamprenavir  when  boosted  with  ritonavir,  with  plasma 
concentrations above IC50.  
Table 4: Plasma APV PK Parameters 
Plasma APV PK 
Parameter 
APV 600 mg BID 
for 14 days 
AUCτ, ss 
(µg.h/ml) 
Cmax, ss 
(µg/ml) 
Cτ, ss 
(µg/ml) 
8.21 
(6.38 – 10.6) 
3.66 
(2.76 – 4.84) 
0.122 
(0.071 – 0.207) 
Geometric Mean (95% CI) 
APV 600 mg BID + 
RTV 100 mg BID 
for 14 days 
26.2 
(22.3 – 30.9) 
4.69 
(3.97 – 5.54) 
1.32 
(1.11 – 1.57) 
FPV 700 mg BID 
for 14 days 
9.51 
(7.81 – 11.6) 
3.19 
(2.64 – 3.85) 
0.135 
(0.099 – 0.183) 
FPV 700 mg BID + 
RTV 100 mg BID 
for 14 days 
33.2 
(28.0 – 39.5) 
4.92 
(4.19 – 5.77) 
1.77 
(1.48 – 2.13) 
APV = amprenavir; RTV = ritonavir ; FPV = fosamprenavir 
Each fosamprenavir oral film-coated 700 mg tablet is the molar equivalent of 600 mg APV 
•  Main study (ies)  
Studies in antiretroviral treatment-naïve adult patients: Studies APV 30002 (APV 30005) and 
APV 30001 
Study APV 30002 
This  was a  multicentre, randomised,  open-label, two arms study designed to  evaluate  the  safety and 
antiviral  efficacy  of  fosamprenavir  boosted  with  ritonavir  OD  versus  nelfinavir  BID  in  combination 
with abacavir and lamivudine both as BID. 
Patients  were  antiretroviral-naïve  (i.e.,  fewer  than  4  weeks  of  previous  therapy  with  a  NRTI  and  no 
previous exposure to any PI or NNRTI) and were stratified according to plasma HIV-1 RNA level at 
screening (≥ 1000-10,000 copies/ml; > 10,000-100,000 copies/ml; or > 100,000 copies/ml).  
17/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive either: 
• 
fosamprenavir 1400 mg OD with ritonavir 200 mg OD + abacavir 300 mg BID + lamivudine 
150 mg BID (referred to as fosamprenavir boosted OD group), or; 
• 
nelfinavir 1250 mg BID + abacavir 300 mg BID + lamivudine 150 mg BID (referred to as 
nelfinavir BID group). 
Patients were to continue on randomised therapy until the last patients enrolled completed their week 
48  visit  unless  they  met  a  protocol  defined  switch  criteria  (plasma  HIV-1  RNA  result  
> 1,000 copies/ml at week 12 or thereafter). Patients changing their randomised PI or adding a NNRTI 
because of virological failure entered the non-randomised phase of the study. Patients changing their 
background NRTI therapy due to intolerance remained in the randomised phase. 
Outcomes/endpoints  
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA levels < 400 
copies/ml at 48 weeks. 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  included  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  levels  < 
400 copies/ml at 24 weeks and <50 copies/ml at 24 and 48 weeks; time to treatment failure; change 
from baseline in plasma HIV-1 RNA levels over time; and change from baseline in CD4+ cell counts 
over time. 
Sample size 
The primary analysis assessed the non-inferiority of fosamprenavir boosted OD to nelfinavir BID with 
respect to the proportion of patients achieving a plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 400/ml copies at week 48. 
The applicant justified the choice of the non-inferiority margin of 12 %. 
Statistical methods 
The intent-to treat exposed (ITT (E)) population was the primary population for the efficacy analyses 
(all patients randomised with documented evidence of having received at least one dose of randomised 
treatment). The secondary population was the per protocol (PP) where randomised patients who had 
no on-treatment post-baseline efficacy data or who had major protocol violations were excluded. 
Rebound  or  Discontinuation  =  Failure  (RD=F);  Patients  were  considered  as  failures  (non-
responders)  if  they  never  achieved  virologic  suppression  (<400  copies/ml  or  <50  copies/ml  as 
appropriate) by the designated timepoint, or following initial suppression the viral load rebounded (> 
400  copies/ml  or  >  50  copies/ml  on  two  consecutive  occasions).  Patients  with  missing  values  were 
only  considered  failures  if  they  were  considered  a  failure  at  either  the  previous  or  subsequent  visit. 
Patients  were  also  considered  as  failures  if  they  discontinued  randomised  study  medication  for  any 
reason. 
Missing or Discontinuation = Failure (MD=F) 
Patients  were  considered  as  failures  (non-responders)  if  they  never  achieved  virologic  supression 
(<400  copies/ml  or  <50  copies/ml  as  appropriate)  by  the  designated  timepoint,  or  following  initial 
suppression  the  viral  load  rebounded  (>  400  copies/ml  or  >  50  copies/ml  on  at  least  one  occasion).  
Patients  were  considered  as  failures  if  they  had  a  missing  value  at  the  designated  timepoint 
irrespective of available values at previous or subsequent visits. 
Patients were considered as failures if they discontinued randomised study medication for any reason.  
In this study, for  both RD=F and the MD=F analyses,  patients who  met the  protocol defined switch 
criterion and elected to change therapy were considered as having discontinued randomised therapy, 
whether  the  PI  component  of  the  regimen  changed  or  only  the  background  RTI  therapies  changed. 
18/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  subjects  changing  background  therapies  due  to  intolerance  (e.g.  hypersensitivity  to 
abacavir) were not considered as having discontinued randomised therapy 
Observed  analysis:  Only subjects  with  data  at  a  visit  were  included  in  the  analysis  and  no  missing 
values were imputed. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The population enrolled was mostly male (73 %), white (53 %), had a viral load of approximately 4.8 
log10 copies/ml (with a significant proportion of patients (43%) with a viral load >100 000 copies/ml, 
and 16% > 500 000 copies/ml) and a CD4 cell count of approximately 170/mm3 (55% with CD4 cell 
count < 200/mm3), with 22% being CDC stage C. Intravenous drug users were allowed to be enrolled 
(14 %) as well as HBV- HCV co-infected patients. 
A  total  of  660  patients  were  randomised.  Of  these,  649  patients  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study 
drug: 322 (50%) in the fosamprenavir boosted OD group and 327 (50%) in the nelfinavir BID group. 
Four hundred and seventy three subjects (73%) completed at least 48 weeks of randomised treatment. 
A significant number of patients experienced premature discontinuation at 48 weeks (27%). 
Among  the  reasons  for  premature  discontinuations  a  higher  rate  of  protocol  switch  criterion  in  the 
nelfinavir arm (8 % versus < 1 %) and a higher rate of adverse events in the fosamprenavir boosted 
OD arm were observed (9 % versus 5 %). 
Outcomes and estimation 
The results on the primary endpoint at weeks 48 are displayed in table 5: 
Table 5: Proportion of patients with plasma HIV-RNA < 400 copies/ml at week 48 
Population 
ITT(E) RD=F 
ITT(E) MD=F 
ITT(E) Observed 
Per-Protocol 
908/RTV OD 
% (n/N) 
69 (221/322) 
68 (220/322) 
95 (222/234) 
95 (215/226) 
NFV BID 
% (n/N) 
68 (221/327) 
65 (213/327) 
90 (234/261) 
91 (215/237) 
Stratified 
Difference 
1 % 
3 % 
5 % 
4 % 
95 % CI 
-6 %, 8 % 
-4 %, 10 % 
0 %, 10 % 
0 %, 9 % 
908 = fosamprenavir; RTV = ritonavir. NFV = nelfinavir; ITT = intent to treat;  
RD=F = Rebound or Discontinuation = Failure; MD=F = Missing or Discontinuation = Failure  
Results  in  the  ITT  and  per  protocol  analyses  were  in  accordance  with  the  12  %  predefined  non-
inferiority  margin  (lower  limit  of  95%  confidence  interval  of  the  difference  between  fosamprenavir 
boosted  OD  and  nelfinavir  in term  of  percentages of patients with  viral loadless than  400 copies/ml 
above –12. 
Results were always in favour of the fosamprenavir boosted OD arm and the 48 weeks data allowed a 
reliable interpretation of the durability of the antiviral activity.  
Virological  failure  was  greater  in  the  nelfinavir  group  (17%)  than  in  the  fosamprenavir  boosted  OD 
group (7%). No genotypic or phenotypic amprenavir resistance was detected in virus from 32 patients 
failing  fosamprenavir  boosted  OD.  A  significantly  higher  proportion  of  nelfinavir  treated  patients 
acquired primary or secondary PRO mutations (27/54 (50 %; p < 0.001). Treatment emergent NRTI 
resistance  was  significantly  less  frequent  with  fosamprenavir  boosted  (4/32;  13  %)  compared  to 
nelfinavir  treated  patients  (31/54;  57  %)  (p  <  0.001).  According  to  the  applicant,  failures  in  the 
fosamprenavir boosted OD arm were likely due to a lack of adherence, therefore without significant 
emergence  of  resistance,  whereas  the  failures  to  nelfinavir  were  mainly  explained  by  insufficient 
virological suppression with emergence of resistance. 
19/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study APV 30005 
This  non-comparative,  open-label  rollover  protocol  included  those  patients  who  had  completed  48 
weeks  or  more  on  study  APV  30002  with  the  objective  to  report  the  long-term  antiviral  response, 
safety  and  tolerability  of  a  fosamprenavir  boosted  OD.  Of  the  322  patients  who  received 
fosamprenavir  boosted  with  ritonavir  OD  in  APV30002,  210  patients  rolled  over  to  APV30005  and 
continued to receive fosamprenavir boosted OD. 
Results  
Of  the  210  enrolled  patients,  19  (9  %)  prematurely  discontinued,  mainly  due  to  consent  withdrawal  
(2 %) and adverse events (2 %). 
Results are displayed in table 6: 
Table  6:  Proportion  of  Subjects  in  APV30002/APV30005  with  Plasma  HIV-1  RNA  <400  copies/ml  and  50 
copies/ml  by  Plasma  HIV-1  RNA  levels  at  APV30002  Screening  fosamprenavir  boosted  OD  Population 
(Observed Analysis) 
Plasma HIV-1 RNA Stratum  
400 copies/ml 
908/RTV OD 
N=210 
% (n/N) 
Week 48 
<10,000 copies/ml 
100 (16/16) 
>10,000 - 100,000 copies/ml  >99 (108/109)  96 (106/110) 
94 (76/81) 
>100,000 copies/ml 
95 (19/20) 
100 (24/24) 
89 (33/37) 
96 (198/207) 
95 (77/81) 
95 (18/19) 
100 (25/25) 
92 (34/37) 
98 (201/206) 
>100,000 250,000 
>250,000 500,000 
>500,000 
Week 24 
100 (16/16) 
Total Population 
908 = fosamprenavir; RTV = ritonavir  
50 copies/ml 
908/RTV OD 
N=210 
% (n/N) 
Week 48 
88 (14/16) 
85 (93/110) 
68 (55/81) 
85 (17/20) 
67 (16/24) 
59 (22/37) 
78 (162/207) 
Week 96 
100 (10/10) 
89 (51/57) 
78 (36/46) 
93 (13/14) 
79 (11/14) 
67 (12/18) 
86 (97/113) 
Week 96 
100 (10/10) 
98 (56/57) 
93 (43/46) 
93 (13/14) 
100 (14/14) 
89 (16/18) 
96 (109/113)  69 (142/206) 
Week 24 
94 (15/16) 
83 (90/109) 
46 (37/81) 
63 (12/19) 
56 (14/25) 
30 (11/37) 
The above results suggest a durability of the antiviral response although these should be taken with 
caution in view of the design of the study. 
Study APV 30001 
This  randomised,  parallel  group,  2  arms,  open  label  study  is  considered  more  as  supportive  than 
confirmatory since fosamprenavir was used unboosted. 
Patients  were  randomised  2:1  to  either  receive  fosamprenavir  1400  mg  BID  or  nelfinavir  1250  mg 
BID, when administered in combination with abacavir 300 mg BID and lamivudine 150 mg BID. The 
study was primarily designed to provide safety data on fosamprenavir, and was statistically powered 
on the endpoint of plasma HIV-1 RNA average area under the curve  minus baseline (AAUCMB), a 
secondary  endpoint.  The  primary  endpoint  was  the  proportion  of  patients  with  plasma  HIV  RNA  
< 400 copies/ml at week 24 and 48. 
A total of 249 patients were randomised and received treatment with fosamprenavir BID (n = 166) or 
nelfinavir  BID  (n  =  83).  Most  patients  were  male  and  American  Hispanic  or  Black.  The  median 
plasma  HIV-1  RNA  levels  was  4.83-log10  copies/ml,  the  median  baseline  CD4  cell  count  was  212 
cells/mm3 at baseline and 20 % of patients had a prior history of a CDC Class C event.  
Results  
Table 7: % of patients with HIV-RNA <400 copies/ml at 48 weeks  
Population 
ITT(E) Population (RD=F) 
ITT(E) Population (MD=F) 
ITT(E) Observed 
Per-Protocol Population 
908 BID 
% (n/N) 
66 (109/166) 
66 (109/166) 
92 (109/118) 
94 (104/111) 
NFV BID 
% (n/N) 
51 (42/83) 
48 (40/83) 
93 (41/44) 
95 (40/42) 
Stratified 
Difference 
15 % 
17 % 
-1 % 
-1 % 
95 % CI 
(2 %, 28 %) 
(5 %, 30 %) 
(-10 %, 9 %) 
(-10 %, 7 %) 
908 = fosamprenavir; NFV = nelfinavir; ITT(E) = intent to treat exposed;  
RD=F = Rebound or Discontinuation = Failure; MD=F = Missing or Discontinuation = Failure 
20/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the ITT (RD = F) analysis, the proportion of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA <400 copies/ml at 
Week  48  was  greater  in  the  fosamprenavir  BID  group  than  in  the  nelfinavir  BID  group.  Among 
patients  with  a  history  of  hepatitis  C,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  <  400 
copies/ml  at  Week  48  was  comparable  between  the  treatment  groups  (fosamprenavir  BID:  48  %; 
nelfinavir BID: 46 %). There was a larger number of patients meeting a criterion for virological failure 
in  the  nelfinavir  BID  group  (28%)  in  comparison  with  the  fosamprenavir  group  (14  %).  Similar 
proportions of patients were considered as failures due to prematurely discontinuing their randomised 
PI due to an adverse event (fosamprenavir BID: 5 %; nelfinavir BID: 6 %). The significant number of 
premature  discontinuation  (fosamprenavir  BID:  30%;  nelfinavir  BID:  46%)  precludes  therefore 
reliable interpretation of the data. 
Studies in antiretroviral treatment-experienced adult patients: Study APV 30003 
This is a phase III randomised, parallel group, three-arm, open-label study to compare the safety and 
efficacy  of  OD  and  BID  dosing  regimens  of  fosamprenavir  boosted  with  ritonavir  versus 
lopinavir/ritonavir in combination with two active RTIs. 
Patients were antiretroviral experienced i.e. previous experience with one or two protease inhibitor(s) 
(ritonavir given at a dose ≤ 400 mg in combination with another PI was counted as one PI; a PI taken 
alone and later in a ritonavir boosted regimen was counted as two different PIs); received at least 12 
consecutive  weeks  of  prior  protease  inhibitor  therapy  (up  to  two  prior  PIs),  with  documented 
virological failure on a prior PI regimen, defined as having plasma HIV-1 RNA that never went below 
1000 copies/ml after at least 12 consecutive weeks of PI therapy, or initial suppression of HIV-1 RNA 
which subsequently rebounded to ≥ 1000 copies/ml. 
Patients  had  plasma  HIV RNA  viral  load  ≥ 1000 copies/ml  and  were  stratified  at  screening.  There 
were no prerequisite in term of CD4 cell counts.  
In  line  with  the  CPMP  “Note  for  Guidance  on  the  clinical  development  of  medicinal  products  for 
treatment  of  HIV  infection”,  hepatitis  co-infected  patients  could  have  been  enrolled.  However  co-
infected patients could enter provided that they had no history of clinically relevant or hepatitis within 
the previous 6 months. Intravenous drug users, who are expected to exhibit a lesser compliance, could 
also be enrolled. 
Outcomes/endpoints  
The primary efficacy endpoint was average area under the curve minus baseline (AAUCMB) in log10 
plasma HIV-1 RNA at 24 and 48 weeks. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints included: 
-  
-  
change from baseline in log10 plasma HIV-1 RNA over 24 and 48 weeks; 
proportion of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA levels < 400 and < 50 copies/ml over 24 weeks 
and 48 weeks;  
time  to  treatment  failure;  this  was  defined  as  the  number  of  days  from  the  first  dose  of  study 
medication  (Study  Day  1)  to  the  first  of  the  following  events:  confirmed  plasma  HIV-1  RNA 
above  400  copies/ml,  permanent  discontinuation  of  randomized  therapy,  HIV  disease 
progression or death. To be a confirmed plasma HIV-1 RNA above  400  copies/ml the patient 
should  have  had  two  values  above  400  following  two  values  below  400;  patients  who  never 
went below 400 were considered to be treatment failures at Day 1. A  similar definition based 
around  50  copies/ml  was  used  to  calculate  “time  to  treatment  failure  (50  copies/ml)”  and  a 
similar definition based around achieving 1 log copies/ml below baseline was used to calculate 
“time to treatment failure (1 log copies/ml below baseline)” 
proportion of patients with ≥ 1.0 log10 decrease in HIV-1 RNA at 24 and 48 weeks; 
change from baseline and AAUCMB in CD4+ cell count over 24 weeks and 48 weeks. 
- 
-  
-  
Sample size 
The  primary  analyses  of  this  study  assessed  the  non-inferiority  of  each  of  the  two  fosamprenavir 
boosted with ritonavir arms to the control arm with respect to AAUCMB in plasma HIV-1 RNA at 24, 
21/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then  48  weeks.  A  non-inferiority  margin  of  0.5-log10  copies/ml  was  considered  appropriate.  To 
provide approximately 90 % power to perform each of these tests at the 1.25% significance level (that 
is  by  using  two-sided  97.5%  confidence  intervals  to  assess  non-inferiority),  assuming  a  standard 
deviation in plasma HIV-1 RNA of 0.85 log10 copies/ml, 72 patients were required in each arm. This 
has been increased to a minimum of 82 to adjust for patients discontinuing prematurely. The width of 
the  confidence  intervals  accounted  for  the  multiple  comparisons;  the  combined  significance  level  of 
the two tests was no more than 2.5 %. 
Results 
Patients’ disposal 
Overall, the population enrolled had a median age of 40 years, was mostly male and White. A limited 
proportion of women have been enrolled in this study 15%. Patients had a viral load of approximately  
4-log10 copies/ml (only 12% of patients had a viral load > 5 log10 copies/ml) and a CD4 cell count of 
approximately  260/mm3  (33%  with  CD4  cell  count  <200/  mm3),  with  a  significant  proportion  being 
CDC stage C (33%).  
The  population  mainly  consists  of  patients  with  moderate  antiretroviral  experience.  Only  65%  of 
patients were receiving a PI therapy at entry. There is a trend for more extensive prior PI experience in 
the fosamprenavir-boosted arms in particular in the once daily regimen (> 2 PIs taken: fosamprenavir 
boosted OD: 57% versus fosamprenavir boosted BID: 49% and lopinavir/ritonavir: 40%). The median 
durations  of  prior  exposure  to  NRTIs  were  257 weeks  for  patients  receiving  fosamprenavir  with 
ritonavir  twice  daily  (79 %  had  ≥ 3  prior  NRTIs)  and  210  weeks  for  patients  receiving 
lopinavir/ritonavir  (64 %  had  ≥ 3  prior  NRTIs).  The  median  durations  of  prior  exposure  to  protease 
inhibitors  were  149 weeks  for  patients  receiving  fosamprenavir  with  ritonavir  twice  daily  (49  % 
received  ≥  2  prior  PIs)  and  130  weeks  for  patients  receiving  lopinavir/ritonavir  (40  %  received  ≥  2 
prior PIs). 
At 48 weeks, 23% of patients experienced premature discontinuation of the randomised PI.  
Efficacy results 
The results on the primary endpoint are displayed in table 8: 
Table 8: Summary of Plasma HIV-1 RNA AAUCMB Values (log10 copies/l) at Week 24 and 48  
Population 
908/RTV 
OD 
Mean (n) 
908/RTV 
BID 
Mean (n) 
LPV/RTV 
BID 
Mean (n) 
ITT(E) 
Observed 
Week 24 
-1.48 (104) 
-1.50 (105) 
-1.65 (103) 
Week 48 
-1.49 (104) 
-1.53 (105) 
-1.76 (103) 
ITT(E) D=BL 
Week 24 
-1.44 (104) 
-1.47 (105) 
-1.61 (103) 
Week 48 
-1.42 (104 
-1.46 (105) 
-1.67 (103) 
ITT(E) LOCF 
Week 24 
-1.47 (104) 
-1.50 (105) 
-1.68 (103) 
Week 48 
-1.48 (104) 
-1.53 (105) 
-1.77 (103) 
Per-Protocol  
Week 24 
-1.56 (84) 
-1.64 (76) 
-1.74 (78) 
Week 48 
-1.78 (68) 
-1.79 (72) 
-1.95 (73) 
Mean Diff a 
(97.5% CI) 
908/RTV OD vs  
LPV/RTV BID 
0.184 
(-0.065, 0.433) 
0.267 
(-0.017, 0.551) 
0.172 
(-0.087, 0.431) 
0.252 
(-0.049, 0.553) 
0.208 
(-0.047, 0.463) 
0.292 
(-0.007, 0.590) 
0.195 
(-0.081, 0.472) 
0.132 
(-0.175, 0.440) 
Mean Diff b 
(97.5% CI)  
908/RTV BID vs  
LPV/RTV BID 
0.171 
(-0.082, 0.424) 
0.244 
(-0.047, 0.536) 
0.151 
(-0.113, 0.415) 
0.225 
(-0.083, 0.533) 
0.188 
(-0.068, 0.443) 
0.257 
(-0.044, 0.557) 
0.131 
(-0.143, 0.405) 
0.153 
(-0.163, 0.470) 
aEstimate of mean strata- adjusted treatment difference (908/RTV OD - LPV/RTV BID) and 97.5% stratified confidence interval. 
bEstimate of mean strata- adjusted treatment difference (908/RTV BID - LPV/RTV BID) and 97.5% stratified confidence interval. 
908 = fosamprenavir; RTV = ritonavir; LPV = Lopinavir; ITT (E) = intent to treat exposed population; D = BL = Discontinuation = 
baseline; LOCF = Last observation carried forward 
At week 24 in the ITT and per protocol analyses, the results were in accordance with the predefined 
non-inferiority margin (upper limit of 97.5 % confidence interval below 0.5 log10 copies/ml).  
22/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, the point estimates of the difference were always in favour of the lopinavir/ritonavir arm. 
At week 48, in the ITT, LOCF and PP analyses for the primary efficacy variable, lopinavir/ritonavir is 
consistently at least numerically superior to the two fosamprenavir + ritonavir arms. 
This is especially noticeable in the difficult-to-treat population with high (>100 000 copies) viral load 
at baseline.  
These  considerations  apply  for  both  fosamprenavir  boosted  regimens,  but  are  even  more  critical  for 
the OD regimen (which has been shown to exhibit slightly lower Cmin). The Kaplan Meier survival 
plot  of  time  to  treatment  (virologic)  failure  censoring  all  patients  other  than  those  considered  to  be 
virologic  failures  indicated  a  higher  likelihood  of  a  shorter  time  to  treatment  failure  in  the 
fosamprenavir  boosted  OD  group  relative  to  the  fosamprenavir  boosted  BID  and  lopinavir/ritonavir 
BID groups. The distribution of time to treatment failure from Week 24 to Week 48 tends to become 
similar between the fosamprenavir boosted BID and lopinavir/ritonavir BID groups, even though more 
patients were classified as treatment failures at Day 1 in the fosamprenavir boosted BID group. 
The  significant  percentage  of  premature  discontinuation  (23  %)  and  the  imbalance  in  the  rate  of 
premature discontinuation between the fosamprenavir boosted (26 %) and lopinavir/ritonavir (17 %) 
arms, might have contributed to the failure in the non-inferiority demonstration. However, the reasons 
for  premature  discontinuations  are  different.  For  lopinavir/ritonavir  they  are  mainly  due  to  AEs, 
however for the fosamprenavir/ritonavir they are  mainly due to virological failure in fosamprenavir-
boosted arms (11% to be compared to <1 % in the lopinavir/ritonavir arm). 
When considering the secondary endpoints, especially the more pertinent criteria (closer to the clinical 
practice)  of  the  percentage  of  patients  with  undetectable  viral  load  (<  400  copies/ml),  the  estimated 
differences are in favour of the Kaletra arm (table 9). 
Table 9: Summary of Proportion of subjects with plasma HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/ml at Week 24 and 48  
908/RTV 
BID 
% (n/N) 
LPV/RTV 
BID 
% (n/N) 
908/RTV 
OD 
% (n/N) 
Population 
ITT(E) RD=F 
24 weeks 
58 (61/105) 
60 (64/107) 
69(71/103) 
48 weeks 
50 (52/105) 
58 (62/107) 
61 (63/103) 
ITT(E) M=F 
24 weeks 
60 (63/105) 
60(64/107) 
71(73/103) 
48 weeks 
50 (53/105) 
56 (60/107) 
63 (65/103) 
ITT(E) observed 
24 weeks 
65 (63/97) 
72 (64/89) 
79 (73/92) 
48 weeks 
64 (53/83) 
75 (60/80) 
75 (65/87) 
Per-Protocol  
24 weeks 
68 (57/84) 
75 (57/76) 
82 (64/78) 
48 weeks 
66 (45/68) 
76 (55/72) 
78 (57/73) 
Stratified Diff1 
(95% CI) 
908/RTV OD vs 
LPV/RTV BID 
-11% 
(-24%, 2%) 
-12% 
(-25%, 2%) 
-11% 
(-24%, 2%) 
-13% 
(-26%, 1%) 
-14% 
(-27%, -2%) 
-12% 
(-26%, 2%) 
-14% 
(-27%, -1%) 
-14% 
(-28%, 1%) 
Stratified Diff1 
(95% CI) 
908/RTV BID vs 
LPV/RTV BID 
-8% 
(-21%, 4%) 
-2% 
(-15%, 11%) 
-10% 
(-23%, 3%) 
-6% 
(-19%, 7%) 
-7% 
(-19%, 6%) 
0% 
(-13%, 13%) 
-5% 
(-18%, 8%) 
-2% 
(-15%, 12%) 
The descriptive analyse of CD4 cell count changes from baseline did not favour a difference between 
the two arms. 
The virological substudy showed that 58% (19/33) versus 25% (7/28) patients acquired primary and or 
secondary PRO mutations in the fosamprenavir with ritonavir arm versus the lopinavir/ritonavir arm. 
The  overall  emergence  of  protease  resistance-associated  mutations  was  slightly  higher  in  the 
fosamprenavir boosted BID arm (OD 17/39 (44%) vs BID 19/33 (58%)). There was however a higher 
incidence of development of primary protease mutations in the fosamprenavir boosted BID arm (OD 
5/17 (29%) vs BID 15/19 ((79%)), whereas in the fosamprenavir boosted OD arm there was a higher 
incidence  of  development  of  only  secondary  protease  mutations  (OD  12/17  (71%)  vs  BID  4/19 
(21%)). There was a slight imbalance in the baseline characteristics which may explain why the BID 
arm  might  have  been  of  higher  risk  of  emergence  of  resistance  (greater  number  of  patients  with 
23/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduced  susceptibility  to  study  PI  in  BID  versus  OD  arms  (n=17  versus  n=12  respectively)  and  a 
slightly higher proportion of patients (10 versus 3) with very high viral load (>250 000 copies/ml)).  
The  majority  of  protease  mutations  emerged  in  the  fosamprenavir-boosted  groups  was  mutations 
previously associated with amprenavir resistance (I50V n=3, I54L n=7, I54M n=3, I84V n=11, V32I 
n=3,  I47V  n=5)  or  associated  accessory  mutations  (L10F  n=9,  L10I  n=3,  L33F  n=8,  M46I/L  n=10, 
A71V/T  n=3,  V82I  n=4).  The  I50V  mutation  was  only  observed  in  the  fosamprenavir  boosted  BID 
group and not the fosamprenavir boosted OD group. A higher incidence of I84V was also observed in 
the fosamprenavir boosted BID group (7/33, 21%) versus the fosamprenavir boosted OD group (4/42, 
10%). Emergence of M46I/L was higher in the fosamprenavir boosted BID group (9/33, 27%) versus 
the fosamprenavir boosted OD group (1/42, 2%). 
With  amprenavir,  a  reduction  in  virological  response  was  observed  in  the  presence  of  four  or  more 
among the following mutations L10F/I/V, K20R/M, E35D, R41K, I54V, L63P, V82A/S/T/S and I84V 
derived  from  the  Marcelin  algorithm  (Marcelin  AG  et  Al.  Antimicrob  Agents  Chemother  2003  Feb 
47:2 594-600).  
• 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Studies are ongoing to evaluate the efficacy and safety of fosamprenavir administered with low dose 
of ritonavir in children the results of which would be submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be 
fulfilled post-authorisation. 
•  Supportive studies 
Study APV 40003 
This  is  an  ongoing  open  label,  single  arm,  non-randomised  study  performed  in  multicentres  in 
Germany  to  describe  the  antiviral  response  and  serious  adverse  events  reported  with  fosamprenavir 
boosted  with  ritonavir  in  antiretroviral  combination  therapy  in  heavily  pretreated  HIV-infected 
patients.  
At  the  time  of  the  data  cut-off  (16  weeks),  148  patients  were  entered.  Of  these,  65  patients  had  the 
opportunity  to receive at least  16 weeks  of treatment. However after excluding patients who  had no 
prior PI therapy or had previously received amprenavir, 39 pre-treated patients were analysed with 13 
on once daily regimen and 26 on bid regimen. Of these 39 patients the majority (82%) were male and 
the  median  age  was  40  years.  At  baseline,  the  population  enrolled  did  not  suffer  from  critical 
deterioration of the immuno-virological status. Indeed, the median viral load was <4 log10 copies/ml 
and  the  median  CD4+  cell  count  was  312  cells/mm3.  A  significant  proportion  of  patients  had 
undetectable  viral  load  (31%).  There  were  also  some  patients  who  experienced  early  virological 
failure  (>1000  copies/ml).  Nevertheless,  a  significant  proportion  of  patient  was  advanced  in  the 
disease  progression  (33%  at  CDC  Stage  C).  In  addition,  although  all  patients  had  received  prior  PI 
therapy,  49%  had  received  >=  3  prior  PIs,  41%  (16/39)  were  on  a  PI  sparing  regimen  immediately 
prior to entry, receiving only NRTIs, NNRTIs or a combination of both. Of those subjects (n=23) who 
were  receiving  a  PI  regimen  at  screen,  74%  (17/23)  were  on  a  RTV  boosted  regimen  of  which 
LPV/RTV was the most common (61%, 11/18). 
The results at week 16 are presented in table 10. 
24/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Study Outcomes at Week 16 for patients receiving fosamprenavir with ritonavir (MD=F) 
OUTCOME 
Responders <400 copies/ml plasma HIV-1 RNA 
Virological failures 
Premature discontinuation due to insufficient 
viral load response 
Plasma HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/ml 
Premature discontinuations other than virological failure 
Adverse event 
Other 
Switch * 
Missing 
OD (N=13) 
n (%) 
BID (N=26) 
n (%) 
Total (N=39) 
n (%) 
10 (77) 
16 (62) 
27 (69) 
2 (15) 
0 
2 (15) 
1 (8) 
0 
1 (8) 
0 
0 
3 (12) 
1 (4) 
2 (8) 
5 (19) 
3 (12) 
1 (4) 
1 (4) 
2 (8) 
5 (13) 
1 (3) 
4 (10) 
5 (13) 
3 (8) 
2 (5) 
0 
2 (5) 
* 1 subject was considered to be a premature discontinuation as switched from BID to OD group before Week 4.  This 
subject is classed as a responder in the Total column. 
The design of the study and the limited data weaken the findings of the study and therefore the use of 
fosamprenavir boosted with ritonavir in salvage therapy cannot be recommended before further data 
become available.  
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
The safety of fosamprenavir has been studied in over 1,000 patients including 755 patients in phase II 
and III controlled clinical trials. The safety of the co-administration of fosamprenavir with low dose 
ritonavir was established in study APV30002 (n = 322) in antiretroviral  naïve patients, and in study 
APV30003 in protease inhibitor experienced patients, either once daily (1400 mg/200 mg) (n = 106) 
or twice daily (700 mg / 100 mg) (n = 106) regimen. 
In APV30002/ APV30005, the median duration of exposure to fosamprenavir boosted OD population 
was  92  weeks.  Globally  twenty-three  patients  (11%)  reported  treatment  emergent  AEs  leading  to 
permanent  discontinuation  of  treatment,  in  majority  due  to  drug  hypersensitivities  all  attributed  to 
abacavir.  
In  study  APV30003,  at  48  weeks,  5  %  of  patients  experienced  premature  treatment  discontinuation 
due  to  adverse  events,  with  a  higher  percentage  in  the  lopinavir/ritonavir  arm  (8  %)  than  in  the 
fosamprenavir boosted arms (2 % in the once daily regimen arm and 6 % in the twice daily regimen). 
The most common adverse event leading to permanent discontinuation of treatment were vomiting, 
which occurred with equal frequency across treatment groups, and nausea and dyspepsia which both 
occurred more frequently in the lopinavir/ritonavir group. 
• 
Adverse events  
Overall  the  safety  of  fosamprenavir  is  comparable  to  the  one  of  amprenavir,  which  was  expected 
because fosamprenavir is almost entirely metabolised to amprenavir before absorption. 
Adverse events described with fosamprenavir are mainly related to gastrointestinal: diarrhoea, nausea, 
abdominal pain and vomiting. 
In antiretroviral naïve patients (APV30002), the overall incidence of treatment-related grade 2-4 
adverse events in the fosamprenavir boosted OD (41 %) was comparable to the nelfinavir (39%). 
However, the incidence in APV30002 was higher than the incidence with fosamprenavir with ritonavir 
OD group in APV30003 (22%). 
25/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As  shown  in  table  11,  more  grades  2-4  gastro-intestinal  events  (mainly  diarrhoea)  were  observed  in 
treatment naïve patients than in treatment-experienced patients. Of note there was a slight higher use 
of anti-diarrhoeal compounds (24 % versus 18%) in experienced patients. 
Table 11: MedRA Body Systems and most common treatment emergent-related Grade 2-4 Adverse Events 
occurring in patients receiving Fosamprenavir + ritonavir OD in APV30002 versus APV30003 
APV30002 (ART-naïve) 
Fosamprenavir + ritonavir OD 
N= 322 
n (%) 
APV30003 (ART-experienced) 
Fosamprenavir + ritonavir OD 
N=106 
n (%) 
Body System 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
Metabolism and Nutrition 
Nervous System Disorders  
Investigations 
Skin 
Diarrhoea NOS 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Abdominal pain 
Fatigue 
Hypertriglyceridaemia 
Rash NOS 
Headache 
68 (21) 
12 (4) 
18 (6) 
26 (8) 
23 (7) 
28 (9) 
21 (7) 
19 (6) 
8 (2) 
11 (3) 
3 (<1) 
5 (2) 
8 (2) 
14 (13) 
1 (<1) 
2 (2) 
4(4) 
3 (3) 
5 (5) 
4 (4) 
3 (3) 
4 (4) 
4 (4) 
0 
1 (<1) 
0 
In  antiretroviral-experienced  patients  (study  APV30003),  the  safety  profile  of  the  fosamprenavir 
boosted BID regimen was comparable with lopinavir/ritonavir BID. 
When comparing the two regimens of fosamprenavir boosted with ritonavir, the overall incidence of 
drug  related  adverse  events  regardless  of  grade  was  similar  in  patients  receiving  the  fosamprenavir 
boosted  OD  and  fosamprenavir  boosted  BID  regimens  (51%  and  55%  respectively).  However  more 
patients in the fosamprenavir boosted BID group reported Grade 2-4 adverse events than with the once 
daily  regimen  (fosamprenavir  boosted  OD:  22%  vs  fosamprenavir  boosted  BID:  38%  vs 
lopinavir/ritonavir BID: 37%). In particular there was a higher frequencies of treatment related Grade 
2-4  AEs  for  gastrointestinal  disorders,  metabolism  and  nutrition  disorders  and  nervous  system 
disorders as displayed in table 12.  
Table 12: Drug related Grade 2-4 AEs 
Body System 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
Diarrhoea  
Metabolism and Nutrition 
Hypertriglyceridemia  
Nervous System Disorders  
Grade headache 
Fosamprenavir + ritonavir OD 
 (%) 
Fosamprenavir + ritonavir BID 
(%) 
13 % 
5% 
< 1 % 
0 
2 % 
0 % 
20 % 
11 
7 % 
4% 
9 % 
3% 
Similar  rates  of  drug  related  Grade  2-4  diarrhoea  and  Grade  2-4  headache  to  those  seen  in  the  BID 
group  were  observed  in  the  lopinavir/ritonavir  group.  However,  drug  related  Grade  1  to  4  diarrhoea 
was reported more often in the lopinavir/ritonavir group compared to the fosamprenavir boosted with 
ritonavir BID group (30% versus 23%, respectively). 
Almost  all  cases  of  hypersensitivity  reactions  reported  in  phase  III  studies  were  attributable  to 
abacavir. The incidence of hypersensitivity reactions in fosamprenavir groups and comparator groups 
was similar, as well as the severity. According to these data, the concomitant treatment of abacavir and 
fosamprenavir  did  not  increase  the  risk  of  hypersensitivity  reaction  compared  to  the  concomitant 
treatment of abacavir and another PI.  
Laboratory abnormalities 
In study APV30002/30005, median triglycerides, total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol levels did not 
appreciably change between Week 48 and Week 96. The median HDL cholesterol levels appeared to 
26/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increase  continuously  throughout  the  study  period  (median  increase  from  baseline:  from  8  mg/dl  at 
Week 48 to 11 mg/dl at Week 96). Minimal absolute changes from baseline were observed in fasting 
glucose  values.  There  was  no  apparent  increase  in  lipodystrophy  over  a  longer  period  of  exposure 
(>48 to 96 weeks).  
With regard to Grade 1 to 4 liver enzyme elevations there was no difference between fosamprenavir 
boosted OD group and nelfinavir group. 
In study APV30003 there were no relevant differences in treatment-emergent grade 3/4 laboratory 
abnormalities between the fosamprenavir boosted BID and OD arms, except for Grade 3/4 triglyceride 
elevations (11 % versus 4%).  
For fasting glucose, the  median change from baseline over 48 weeks was slightly higher in the BID 
group compared to the OD group (change at week 48 7.2 mg/dl versus 1.8). There was no correlation 
between these events and plasma concentrations demonstrated except for fasting glucose elevations.  
There was slightly higher number of patients in the fosamprenavir boosted arms that developed Grade 
3/4  elevations  in  ALT  and/or  AST  compared  to  the  lopinavir/ritonavir  group  (6  %  (6/106  in 
fosamprenavir  boosted  OD  versus  6  %  (6/106)  in  fosamprenavir  boosted  OD  versus  4%  (4/103)  in 
lopinavir/ritonavir). 
There was a higher incidence of Grade 3/4 serum lipase in the lopinavir/ritonavir group (12 %) than in 
the two regimens of fosamprenavir boosted (5 % in each arm). 
Preliminary results of a study in healthy volunteers which aimed at exploring increased fosamprenavir 
and ritonavir doses to increase plasma amprenavir exposure showed that in 6 out of 42 subject there 
was a significant increase of liver transaminase (> 2.5 ULN in ALT and/or AST) especially in patients 
receiving 1400 mg BID boosted with ritonavir 200 mg BID. A warning has therefore been included in 
the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  the  potential  alteration  of  the  safety  profile  of  the 
combination with the use of doses of ritonavir higher than 100 mg BID. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The  overall  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  was  low.  In  study  30003,  a  total  of  37  patients 
experienced at least one treatment emergent serious adverse event irrespective of suspected causality 
during  the  study  (fosamprenavir  boosted  OD:  15%  (16/106)  vs  fosamprenavir  boosted  BID:  8% 
(9/106) vs lopinavir/ritonavir BID: 12% (12/103)). 
The  vast  majority  of  these  serious  adverse  events  in  trial  APV30001  and  APV30002  were  drug 
hypersensitivity  reactions  attributed  in  almost  all  cases  to  abacavir.  There  was  no  death  reported 
related to fosamprenavir. 
• 
HBV/HCV co-infected patients and patients with liver impairment 
A  total  of  269  HCV  and/or  HBV  co-infected  patients  were  included  in  the  studies.  The  risk  of 
treatment  emergent  Grade  3-4  liver  function  test  elevations  was  greater  in  patients  with  hepatitis  B 
and/or  C  co-infection  at  baseline  in  all  treatment  groups.  In  those  patients  entering  the  study  with 
hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C co-infection there were no apparent differences between fosamprenavir 
and fosamprenavir boosted with ritonavir in the risk of liver function test elevations.  
In study APV30002 and APV30003, a comparable but relatively low number of treatment naïve and 
treatment experienced patients (10 to 12%) had hepatic impairment (maximum grade 2 liver enzyme 
elevations)  other  than  co-infection  with  hepatitis  B  and  /or  C  at  baseline.  Treatment-naive  patients 
without hepatitis co-infection did not describe a specific risk to develop increases in hepatic enzymes, 
whatever  baseline  values.  Treatment-experienced  patients  with  pre-existing  hepatic  impairment 
described a higher risk to develop increases in transaminase values.  
These results confirm that risk of liver impairment is increased in patients with elevated transaminase 
values or hepatitis co-infection at baseline.  
27/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Pregnancy 
Twelve pregnancies occurred in 11 patients exposed to fosamprenavir during pregnancy. Of these, 6 
were aborted (2 spontaneous and 4 induced). Of the remaining 6 pregnancies, 5 went to term with no 
birth defects described and the outcome of 1 is unknown. The applicant undertook to provide outcome 
of pregnancies and to follow infants after birth during the post-marketing phase. 
The  safety  of the recommended  dose  of the  suspension  compared to the  coated tablets  has  not  been 
investigated  in  clinical  trials.  It  can  be  hypothesised  that  the  presence  of  only  small  amounts  of 
propylene glycol (10.2 mg/ml) in the suspension vs. the high amounts in the amprenavir oral solution 
already on the market (550 mg/ml) makes the fosamprenavir suspension a significantly safer product 
to deliver equivalent amounts of amprenavir to the patients. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  forms  selected  are 
adequate  taking  into  account  the  properties  and  stability  of  the  active  substance.  The  excipients  are 
commonly  used  in  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented.  The 
manufacturing  processes  were  developed  and  optimized  to  obtain  reproducible  finished  product 
batches.  Stability  tests  under  ICH  conditions  indicate  that  the  products  are  stable  for  the  proposed 
shelf  life.  The  unexpected  bioinequivalence  findings  related  to  processing  and  batch  scale-up  of  the 
active substance and drug product (subsequently resolved) will have to be kept in mind when future 
changes are contemplated. A full and deep reassessment of quality will have to be considered at each 
change in manufacture process and batch size scale or any changes that could have an impact in-vivo 
applying for both drug substance and drug product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Fosamprenavir is the pro-drug of amprenavir, which is an inhibitor of the HIV protease, already on the 
market.  Fosamprenavir  has  no  or  little  antiviral  activity  per  se  and  requires  in-vivo  metabolism  to 
release  the  active  moiety  amprenavir.  Amprenavir  had  previously  been  shown  an  antiviral  activity 
both in vitro and in vivo against laboratory and clinical isolates compatible with a potential clinical use 
for  the  treatment  of  HIV  infection.  The  general  pharmacology  studies  showed  no  treatment  related 
adverse effects. 
The pharmacokinetics profile determined in mice, rats and dogs showed that fosamprenavir is rapidly 
absorbed after oral administration and extensively converted into amprenavir, widely distributed, and 
is eliminated primarily by hepatic clearance. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  showed  that  toxicity  profile  of  fosamprenavir  is  similar  to 
amprenavir.  Treatment  effects  in  the  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  included  gastrointestinal 
intolerance.  Liver was  also the  primary organ  of toxicity. Fosamprenavir is  not immunotoxic. There 
was no evidence of toxicity to reproduction. Fosamprenavir is not genotoxic. The lack of final results 
from  the  carcinogenicity  studies  was  justified  and  in  view  of  the  benefit/risk  ratio,  the  CPMP 
considered a marketing authorisation could be granted prior the availability of these results. However 
the  applicant  undertook  to  submit  the  final  results  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled 
post-authorisation.  
Efficacy 
Fosamprenavir has been developed not only to optimise the use of amprenavir, by further reducing the 
pill burden but also to optimise/complete the clinical development of this compound in HIV infected 
naïve and pretreated patients. 
28/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  fosamprenavir  has  been  well  defined  and  relevant  information  has 
been  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  Overall  after  oral  administration, 
fosamprenavir  is  rapidly  extensively  converted  to  amprenavir  prior  to  reaching  systemic  circulation. 
Ritonavir  enhanced  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  amprenavir.  Amprenavir  is  primarily 
eliminated  via  hepatic  metabolism.  Co-administration  with  compounds  that  interact  with  CYP450,  
P-gp or that affect fosamprenavir solubility may result in interaction. Additional data will be provided 
post-authorisation to complete the pharmacokinetic profile in particular with respect to interaction data 
and data in patients with hepatic impairment. 
The dose of fosamprenavir was selected to provide comparable exposure to amprenavir. It was shown 
that  similar  plasma  amprenavir  pharmacokinetic  parameter  values  were  observed  for  equimolar 
fosamprenavir  and  amprenavir  regimen  (i.e  amprenavir  600  mg  bid  and  fosamprenavir  700  mg  bid) 
and for equimolar fosamprenavir and amprenavir regimen boosted with 100 mg ritonavir bid. 
In antiretroviral naïve patients, the efficacy of fosamprenavir boosted with ritonavir is based on one a 
single  pivotal  open  label  study  versus  nelfinavir.  In  this  study  fosamprenavir  (1400  mg)  given  once 
daily with 200 mg ritonavir as part of a triple regimen including abacavir (300 mg bid) and lamivudine 
(150  mg  bid)  showed  similar  efficacy  over  48  weeks  compared  to  nelfinavir  (1250  mg  bid).  The 
proportion of patients with HIV RNA below 400 copies/ml at week 48 was 69 % in the fosamprenavir 
arm versus 68 % in the nelfinavir arm. The virological failure was greater in the nelfinavir group (17 
%)  than  in  the  fosamprenavir-boosted  group  (7%).  In  a  roll-over  study,  96  weeks  non  comparative 
data  from  patients  treated  with  fosamprenavir/ritonavir  OD  were  suggestive  of  a  durable  virological 
suppression. 
In protease inhibitor experienced patients with virological failure (less than or equal to two PIs), the 
efficacy of fosamprenavir boosted with ritonavir (either 700 mg + 100 mg bid or 1400 mg + 200 mg 
OD)  was  compared  in  a  randomised  open-label  study  to  lopinavir/ritonavir.  At  24  weeks,  the  non-
inferiority  could  be  concluded  between  the  treatments  with  regard  to  virological  suppression  as 
measured by the average area under the curve minus baseline for plasma HIV-RNA, even if the point 
estimates  were  always  in  favour  of  the  lopinavir/ritonavir  arm.  The  difference  in  favour  of 
lopinavir/ritonavir  was  statistically  significant  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  high  viral  load  at 
baseline (>100 000 copies/ml) 
The fact that Telzir associated with ritonavir was not shown to be non-inferior to lopinavir/ritonavir at 
48 weeks has been reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics and the applicant undertook to 
explore an intensification of treatment in patients failing to achieve adequate virological suppression 
with fosamprenavir boosted. 
Similarly  when  considering  the  proportion  of  patients  with  viral  load  below  the  limit  of  detection, 
(secondary  endpoint),  results  were  far  from  the  demonstration  of  non-inferiority  between  the 
treatments,  although  the  study  was  not  sufficiently  powered  for  this  assessment,  conversely  to  the 
assessment  of  primary  endpoint,  AAUCMB  at  24  and  48  weeks.  The  suggestion  of  a  superiority  of 
lopinavir/ritonavir  is  even  more  noticeable  in  the  difficult-to-treat  population  with  high  viral  load  at 
baseline (>100 000 copies/ml). The results were even more critical when considering the once daily 
regimen.  
In term of resistance, overall the addition of ritonavir, as pharmacokinetic enhancer, to fosamprenavir 
led  to  reduction  in  the  development  of  resistance  in  antiretoviral  naive  patients.  The  occurrence  of 
PRO  mutations  was  0  %  in  study  APV30002  versus  17  %  in  APV30001  where  fosamprenavir  was 
given  unboosted.  RT  mutations  in  NRTI  were  also  significantly  reduced  (13%  versus  55%).  The 
amprenavir-associated resistance mutations that emerged in study APV30001 with fosamprenavir non 
boosted  with  ritonavir  were  consistent  with  primary  mutations  described  in  patients  treated  with 
amprenavir.  
In the antiretroviral experienced population, viruses that have developed resistance as a result of prior 
PI therapy are more likely to remain susceptible to amprenavir and lopinavir, than to other PIs.  
A  deleterious  impact  of  the  presence  of  4  or  more  mutations  among  the  following  ones:  L10F/I/V, 
K20R/M, E35D, R41K, I54V, L63P, V82A/S/T/F and I84Vto response (<400 copies/ml at Week 48) 
to 908/RTV has been shown and is important to take into account in the therapeutic management of 
patients. 
29/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant undertook to perform genotypic and phenotypic analyses in ongoing and planned studies 
with correlation with pharmacokinetic exposure and virological response. 
Cross-resistance to  amprenavir or other protease inhibitors  does not appear  to develop in  previously 
treatment naïve subjects failing a boosted fosamprenavir regimen. 
There are currently insufficient data in heavily pre-treated antiretroviral experienced patients to 
recommend the use of fosamprenavir in deep salvage therapy. 
There is currently no efficacy and safety data in children, but the applicant undertook to submit the 
results of ongoing paediatric studies using the oral solution as part of the follow-up measures to be 
fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Safety 
The  safety  profile  of  fosamprenavir  with  ritonavir  was  evaluated  in  combination  with  various  other 
antiretroviral  agents.  No  new  safety  issues  have  emerged  with  the  prodrug  compared  to  the 
amprenavir. Adverse events relate mainly to gastro-intestinal disorders, particularly diarrhoea. Safety 
profile in naïve patients was generally comparable in term of types and incidences of adverse events to 
the ones observed in treatment experienced patients. Safety profile of fosamprenavir boosted BID was 
comparable to lopinavir/ritonavir. Although liver was the target organ in the preclinical studies, there 
was no sign in the clinical studies of liver toxicity associated with fosamprenavir.  
The  class  labelling  on  the  adverse  events  which  have  been  associated  with  the  use  of  antiretroviral 
therapies such as lipodystrophy, metabolic abnormalities, hyperglycaemia, or with protease inhibitors 
such as rhabdomyolosis and spontaneous bleeding in haemophiliac patients have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics.  
The  following  events  will  also  be  monitored  during  the  post-authorisation  phase:  gastro-intestinal 
events (diarrhoea), headache, glucose and lipids abnormalities (hypertriglyceridemia), hypersensibility 
and skin events, transaminase elevations and cardiac events. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the 
time of the CPMP opinion there were some outstanding minor quality issues which had no impact on 
the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up 
measures within an agreed timeframe, and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of 
this additional information. 
In antiretroviral naive patients, the CPMP considered that the efficacy demonstration was acceptable 
although not optimal, especially in the absence of bridging studies with amprenavir in this population. 
In  addition  the  demonstration  was  only  supported  by  one  single  open  label  study  versus  nelfinavir. 
However nelfinavir was the most prescribed protease inhibitor at the time of the initiation of the study 
and lopinavir/ritonavir, which has become a preferred used protease inhibitor in this population, was 
not yet authorised. The CPMP concluded that an approval for fosamprenavir/ritonavir BID could only 
be considered in this population provided that:  
- the same schedule regimen as in antiretroviral experienced patients, i.e. a BID regimen (allowing to 
achieve  20-30  %  increased  Cmin,  which  minimise  the  risk  of  sub-optimal  concentrations)  was 
recommended, as a conservative measure.  
-  the  applicant  performs  a  clinical  study  in  antiretroviral  naïve  patients  versus  lopinavir/ritonavir,  to 
help  physicians  in  determining  the  optimal  therapeutic  strategy  in  clinical  practice.  The  applicant 
undertook  to  conduct  this  study,  the  results  of  which  would  be  submitted  as  part  of  the  follow-up 
measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
In  antiretroviral  experienced  patients,  the  efficacy  demonstration  was  far  less  convincing.  Indeed  in 
the pivotal study APV30003 enrolling moderately antiretroviral experienced patients, 48 week results 
30/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  not  compatible  with  a  demonstration  of  non-inferiority  between  fosamprenavir  boosted  with 
ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir. The suggestion of a superiority of lopinavir/ritonavir was even more 
noticeable  in  the  difficult-to-treat  population  with  high  viral  load  at  baseline  (>100  000  copies/ml). 
These considerations applied for both fosamprenavir boosted with ritonavir once daily and twice daily 
regimens, but were even more critical for the once daily regimen. In relation with the lower virological 
suppression achieved with fosamprenavir with ritonavir in comparison to lopinavir/ritonavir a higher 
emergence of resistance was observed. 
However,  CPMP  considered  that  the  comparison  with  lopinavir/ritonavir  should  not  preclude  an 
approval in antiretroviral-experienced patients considering that: 
-  
-  
-  
-  
fosamprenavir is the prodrug of amprenavir already approved in this specific population and can 
be regarded as an optimisation of amprenavir 
there  is  no  argument  in  favour  of  a  deterioration  of  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  the  prodrug  in 
comparison to the amprenavir. 
this prodrug presents the potential advantage of an improved compliance by the reduction of the 
pill burden which may be added value of particular importance in this population. 
the clinical experience gained with the prodrug and the amprenavir (the pharmacokinetic direct 
comparison with the amprenavir and fosamprenavir allows to bridge the clinical experience of 
both drugs) allowed to substantiate the efficacy and safety profiles of fosamprenavir. 
The failure to establish non-inferiority has however been clearly reflected in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics and the applicant undertook to explore an intensification of treatment in patients failing 
to achieve adequate virological suppression with fosamprenavir boosted.  
There are however insufficient data to recommend the use of fosamprenavir with ritonavir in heavily 
pre-treated patients. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk ratio of Telzir was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
marketing authorisation in the following indication: 
“Telzir  in  combination  with  low  dose  ritonavir  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  Human 
Immunodeficiency  Virus  Type  1  (HIV-1)  infected  adults  in  combination  with  other 
antiretroviral medicinal products. 
In moderately antiretroviral experienced patients, Telzir in combination with low dose ritonavir 
has not been shown to be as effective as lopinavir / ritonavir. 
In heavily pretreated patients the use of Telzir in combination with low dose ritonavir has not 
been sufficiently studied. 
In protease inhibitor (PI) experienced patients the choice of Telzir should be based on individual 
viral resistance testing and treatment history”. 
31/31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
