EMEA/H/C/002198 
EPAR summary for the public 
Temozolomide Sun 
temozolomide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Temozolomide Sun. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Temozolomide Sun. 
What is Temozolomide Sun? 
Temozolomide Sun is a medicine that contains the active substance temozolomide. It is available as 
capsules (5, 20, 100, 140, 180 and 250 mg). 
Temozolomide Sun is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Temozolomide Sun is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Temodal. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Temozolomide Sun used for? 
Temozolomide Sun is an anticancer medicine. It is used to treat malignant glioma (brain tumours) in 
the following groups of patients: 
 
adults with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (an aggressive type of brain tumour). 
Temozolomide Sun is used first with radiotherapy and then on its own; 
 
adults and children three years of age and over with malignant glioma such as glioblastoma 
multiforme or anaplastic astrocytoma, when the tumour has returned or got worse after standard 
treatment. Temozolomide Sun is used on its own in these patients. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How is Temozolomide Sun used? 
Treatment with Temozolomide Sun should be prescribed by a doctor with experience in the treatment 
of brain tumours. 
The dose of Temozolomide Sun depends on body surface area (calculated using the patient’s height 
and weight) and ranges from 75 to 200 mg per square metre, once a day. The dose and the number of 
doses depend on the type of tumour being treated, whether the patient has been treated before, 
whether Temozolomide Sun is being used alone or with other treatments, and how the patient 
responds to treatment. Temozolomide Sun should be taken without food.  
Patients may also need to take medicines to prevent vomiting before taking Temozolomide Sun. 
Temozolomide Sun should be used with caution in patients with severe liver problems or with kidney 
problems. 
For full details, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Temozolomide Sun work? 
The active substance in Temozolomide Sun, temozolomide, belongs to a group of anticancer medicines 
called alkylating agents. In the body, temozolomide is converted to another compound called MTIC. 
MTIC binds to the DNA of cells while they are reproducing, which stops cell division. As a result, the 
cancer cells cannot divide, slowing down the growth of tumours. 
How has Temozolomide Sun been studied? 
Because Temozolomide Sun is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Temodal. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Temozolomide Sun? 
Because Temozolomide Sun is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Temozolomide Sun been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Temozolomide Sun has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Temodal. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Temodal, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that 
Temozolomide Sun be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Temozolomide Sun 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Temozolomide Sun on 13 July 2011. 
The full EPAR for Temozolomide Sun can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Temozolomide Sun, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
Temozolomide Sun  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 06-2011. 
Temozolomide Sun  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
