EMA/523990/2014 
EMEA/H/C/001126 
EPAR summary for the public 
Temozolomide Teva 
temozolomide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Temozolomide Teva. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Temozolomide Teva. 
What is Temozolomide Teva? 
Temozolomide Teva is a medicine that contains the active substance temozolomide. It is available as 
capsules (5, 20, 100, 140, 180 and 250 mg). 
Temozolomide Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Temozolomide Teva is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Temodal. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Temozolomide Teva used for? 
Temozolomide Teva is a cancer medicine. It is used to treat malignant glioma (brain tumours) in the 
following groups of patients: 
• 
• 
adults with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (an aggressive type of malignant glioma). 
Temozolomide Teva is used first with radiotherapy and then on its own; 
adults and children three years of age and over with malignant glioma such as glioblastoma 
multiforme or anaplastic astrocytoma, when the tumour has returned or got worse after standard 
treatment. Temozolomide Teva is used on its own in these patients. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How is Temozolomide Teva used? 
Treatment with Temozolomide Teva should be prescribed by a doctor with experience in the treatment 
of brain tumours. 
The dose of Temozolomide Teva depends on body surface area (calculated using the patient’s height 
and weight) and ranges from 75 to 200 mg per square metre, once a day. The dose and the number of 
doses depend on the type of tumour being treated, whether the patient has been treated before, 
whether Temozolomide Teva is being used alone or with other treatments, and how the patient 
responds to treatment. Temozolomide Teva should be taken without food. 
Patients may also need to take medicines to prevent vomiting before taking Temozolomide Teva. 
Temozolomide Teva should be used with caution in patients with severe liver problems or with kidney 
problems. 
For full details, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Temozolomide Teva work? 
The active substance in Temozolomide Teva, temozolomide, belongs to a group of cancer medicines 
called alkylating agents. In the body, temozolomide is converted to another compound called MTIC. 
MTIC binds to the DNA of cells while they are reproducing, which stops cell division. As a result, the 
cancer cells cannot divide, slowing down the growth of tumours. 
How has Temozolomide Teva been studied? 
Because Temozolomide Teva is a generic medicine, studies have been limited to tests to determine 
that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Temodal. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Temozolomide Teva? 
Because Temozolomide Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicine. 
Why has Temozolomide Teva been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Temozolomide Teva has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Temodal. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Temodal, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that 
Temozolomide Teva be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Temozolomide Teva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for 
Temozolomide Teva on 28 January 2010.  
The full EPAR for Temozolomide Teva can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Temozolomide Teva, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2014. 
