European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMA/50915/2010 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Temozolomide Teva 
International Nonproprietary Name: temozolomide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001126 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 8 
Clinical Aspects ..................................................................................................................... 11 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 17 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation...................................... 19 
2/19 
 
 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  submitted  on  28  January  2009  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Temozolomide  Teva,  in  accordance 
with  the  centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004 
under Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
s 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Temodal 5 mg hard capsules 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: SP Europe 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 26 January 1999 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
(cid:131)  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/096/001 -002 
■ Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Member State where the application 
is made or European reference medicinal product:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Temodal 5, 20, 100, 140, 180, 250 mg hard capsules 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: SP Europe 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 26 January 1999 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
(cid:131)  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/096/001 -012 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Temodal 20 and 250 mg hard capsules 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: SP Europe 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 26 January 1999 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
(cid:131)  Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/98/096/004, 007 
(cid:131)  Bioavailability study number(s): TEM-BESD-01-TIE/07 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation team was Tomas P Salmonson 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 28 January 2009.  
The procedure started on 25 February 2009. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
18 May 2009. 
3/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
During  the  meeting  on  22-25  June  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 25 June 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
24 July 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  17 September 2009.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  21-24  September  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of 
Outstanding  Issues  to  be  addressed  in  writing  by the applicant. The final List of Outstanding 
Issues was sent to the applicant on 24 September 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
30 September 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  12 October 2009.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  19-22  October  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  second  List  of 
Outstanding  Issues  to  be  addressed  in  writing  by the applicant. The final List of Outstanding 
Issues was sent to the applicant on 22 October 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  second  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
3 November 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  second 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  11 November 2009.  
During  the  meeting  on  16-19  November  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Temozolomide Teva on 19 November 2009.  
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 28 January 2010. 
4/19 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Temozolomide  Teva  5,  20,  100,  140,  180,  250  mg  hard  capsules  is  a  generic  medicinal  product 
containing temozolomide as active substance. The reference medicinal product Temodal 5, 20, 100, 
140,  180,  250  mg  hard  capsules,  has  been  centrally  authorized  on  26  January  1999.  The  active 
substance of the reference product is temozolomide. 
Temozolomide (TMZ) is the 3-methyl derivative of mitozolomide and chemically related to another 
imidazole  carboxamide  namely  dacarbazine.  Both  dacarbazine  and  TMZ  are  not  directly  active  and 
cleave to form the linear triazene 5-(3-methyl)1-triazen-1-yl-imiazole-4- carboxamide (MTIC) which 
is  the  reactive  metabolite  responsible  for  DNA  alkylation.  Unlike  dacarbazine,  which  requires 
metabolic  dealkylation  (a  relatively  inefficient  process  in  humans  compared  to  rodents)  to  form 
MTIC, TMZ undergoes rapid nonenzymatic conversion to MTIC under physiological condition. The 
cytotoxicity of MTIC is thought to be primarily due to alkylation of DNA. Alkylation (methylation) 
occurs  mainly  at  the  N7  and  6O  positions  of  guanine  although  methylation  at  the  3O  position  also 
occurs. 
Temozolomide  Teva  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  newly-diagnosed 
glioblastoma  multiforme  concomitantly  with  radiotherapy  (RT)  and  subsequently  as  monotherapy 
treatment.  Temozolomide  Teva  is  also  indicated  for  the  treatment of children from the age of three 
years,  adolescents  and  adult  patients  with  malignant  glioma,  such  as  glioblastoma  multiforme  or 
anaplastic astrocytoma, showing recurrence or progression after standard therapy. 
Temozolomide Teva 5, 20, 100, 140, 180, 250 mg hard capsules is administered in combination with 
focal radiotherapy (concomitant phase) followed by up to 6 cycles of temozolomide (Temozolomide) 
monotherapy (monotherapy phase). 
In  the  concomitant  phase,  Temozolomide  is  administered  orally  at  a  dose  of  75 mg/m² daily for 42 
days  concomitant  with  focal  radiotherapy  (60 Gy  administered in 30 fractions). No dose reductions 
are  recommended,  but  delay  or  discontinuation  of  Temozolomide  administration  should  be  decided 
weekly  according  to  haematological  and  non-haematological  toxicity  criteria.  Temozolomide 
administration can be continued throughout the 42 day concomitant period (up to 49 days) if all of the 
following conditions are met: 
-  
-  
-  
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 x 109/l 
thrombocyte count ≥ 100 x 109/l 
common  toxicity  criteria  (CTC)  non-haematological  toxicity  ≤  Grade  1  (except  for  alopecia, 
nausea and vomiting). 
During treatment a complete blood count should be obtained weekly.  
Four  weeks  after  completing  the  Temozolomide  +  RT  concomitant  phase,  Temozolomide  is 
administered  for  up  to  6  cycles  of  monotherapy  treatment.  Dose  in  Cycle  1  (monotherapy)  is  150 
mg/m² once daily for 5 days followed by 23 days without treatment. At the start of Cycle 2, the dose 
is escalated to 200 mg/m² if the CTC nonhaematological toxicity for Cycle 1 is Grade ≤ 2 (except for 
alopecia, nausea and vomiting), absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is ≥ 1.5 x 109/l, and the thrombocyte 
count  is  ≥  100  x  109/l.  If  the  dose  was  not  escalated  at  Cycle  2,  escalation  should  not  be  done  in 
subsequent cycles. Once escalated, the dose remains at 200 mg/m² per day for the first 5 days of each 
subsequent  cycle  except  if  toxicity  occurs.  Dose  reductions  and  discontinuations  during  the 
monotherapy phase may be applied. 
During treatment a complete blood count should be obtained on Day 22 (21 days after the first dose of 
Temozolomide).  
5/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  adults  and  paediatric  patients  3  years  of  age  or  older  with  recurrent  or  progressive  malignant 
glioma.  A  treatment  cycle  comprises  28  days.  In  patients  previously  untreated  with  chemotherapy, 
Temozolomide is administered orally at a dose of 200 mg/m² once daily for the first 5 days followed 
by  a  23  day  treatment  interruption  (total  of  28  days).  In  patients  previously  treated  with 
chemotherapy,  the  initial  dose  is  150  mg/m²  once  daily,  to  be  increased  in  the  second  cycle  to  200 
mg/m² once daily, for 5 days if there is no haematological toxicity. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  product  is  presented  as  hard  gelatin  capsules  containing  5,  20,  100,  140,  180  and  250  mg  of 
temozolomide as active substance. 
Other ingredients are defined in the SPC section 6.1. 
The capsules are packed in glass bottles. 
Active Substance 
The  chemical  name  of  temozolomide  is  (2)  3,4-dihydro-3-methyl-4-oxoimidazo[5,1-d]-1,2,3,5- 
tetrazine-8-carboxamide  corresponding  to  the  molecular  formula  C6H6N6O2  and  relative  molecular 
mass 194.15.  
It appears as a white to light tan/light pink non-hygroscopic powder that is slightly soluble in water. 
Its dissociation constant pKa has been found 0 and partition coefficient has been determined logP = -
1.153.  Temozolomide  is  achiral,  but  shows  polymorphism  and  nine  polymorphic  forms  have  been 
identified. The active substance manufacturer consistently produces one polymorphic form and this is 
used in the manufacture of the product. 
• 
Manufacture 
An  ASMF  for  temozolomide  has  been  submitted.  The  manufacturing  process  of  temozolomide 
consists  of  three  synthetic  steps  followed  by  crystallisation.  Starting  materials  as  well  as  synthetic 
intermediates  were  described  in  sufficient  detail.  The  critical  process  parameters  of  all  stages  with 
appropriate justification have been described.  
• 
Specification 
The  drug  substance  specification  as  tested  by  the  finished  product  manufacturer  includes  tests  for 
appearance  (visual),  identification  (IR,  HPLC),  chloride  (Ph.Eur.),  loss  on  drying  (Ph.Eur.),  residue 
on  ignition  (Ph.Eur.),  heavy  metals  (Ph.Eur.),  assay  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  residual 
solvents (GC) and acetic acid (HPLC). 
Batch analysis data are presented for three production scale and ten pilot scale batches manufactured 
by the proposed manufacturer. The batches have been tested for all parameters included in the drug 
substance manufacturer’s specification, except for microbiological purity. All parameters evaluated 
comply with the specification. 
• 
Stability 
Stability data has been presented for three pilot scale batches stored under normal conditions (25°C, 
60% RH) for up to 24 months, and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40°C, 75% RH). 
Additional  stability  data  from  three  combined  commercial  batches  for  up  to  18  months  of  storage 
under normal and up to 6 months under accelerated conditions were also presented.  
Data from the combined batches obtained under 18 months real time and 6 months accelerated studies 
showed all results to comply with the proposed specification. No specific trends were evident. This 
was also the case for the pilot scale batches that where presented in the initial submission. 
6/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based  on  the  data  provided  to  date  the  retest  period  proposed  by  the  ASMF-holder  is  judged 
acceptable. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to formulate a conventional solid oral dosage form 
(hard capsule) with the dosage of 5, 20, 100, 140, 180 and 250 mg temozolomide per capsule that are 
essentially similar to the innovator product, Temodal. 
Temozolomide  is  unionized  (no  pKa)  and  does  not  show  any  pH  dependant  solubility.  The  highest 
dose 250 mg is soluble in <250 ml over the range of pH 1-7.5 and is thus considered as highly soluble 
as per BCS guidance. Due to the BCS class 1 characteristic the particle size is not considered to have 
any impact on the dissolution properties. Only one polymorphic form is used. As only dry mixing is 
applied during manufacture of the drug product no change in the polymorphic form is expected.  
The  excipients  used  are  the  same  excipients  contained  in  the  innovator  product,  Temodal.  All 
excipients are commonly used in pharmaceutical oral dosage forms and comply with the Ph. Eur. 
Compatibility  of  the  excipients  in  the  formulation  and  with  the  drug  substance  is  confirmed  by  the 
stability studies (section IV.8) 
Dissolution studies of Temozolomide Teva and the reference product were carried out at three media 
of different pH. It was shown that more than 85% of the drug was released in 15 minutes in all three 
media from all strengths of both the Temozolomide Teva and reference product.  
Temozolomide  Teva  5,  20,  100,  140,  180  and  250  mg  hard  gelatine  capsules  are  formulated  with 
anhydrous lactose, sodium starch glycolate, tartaric acid, colloidal anhydrous silica and stearic acid. 
Three powder blends are developed, one for the 5 mg and 20 mg strengths respectively and one for 
the  100  mg,  140  mg,  180  mg  and  250  mg  strengths.  Temozolomide  Teva  capsules  are  packaged  in 
amber glass bottles with child-resistant, induction sealed screw cap. 
Bioequivalence studies have been submitted for the 20 mg and 250 mg strengths.  
The  absence  of  studies  with  the  5  mg,  100  mg,  140  mg  and  180mg  tablet  strengths  is  considered 
acceptable for the following reasons: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the pharmacokinetics of temozolomide is linear in the therapeutic dose range  
the different strengths are produced using the same process and by the same manufacturer  
the qualitative composition is the same for the different strengths  
the ratio between amounts of active substance and excipients is the same in the strength in the 
range  100  mg  to  250  mg.  The  5  mg  strength  is  not  dose  proportional  but  amount  of  active 
substance is low (5%) and the ratio between excipients is similar to that of the 20 mg strength. 
the in vitro dissolution profile is similar for the different tablet strengths. Additional strengths of 
Temozolomide capsules; 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg, 140 mg and 180 mg versus the 250 mg strength 
were observed to be similar.  
•  In all media more than 85% was released after 15 minutes. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is a conventional process for hard capsule manufacture and involves: 
mixing, sieving, capsule filling and packaging. 
The manufacturing process has been acceptably described. The validation results demonstrate that the 
manufacturing process has been appropriately validated. 
• 
Product Specification  
The  product  release  and  shelf-life  specifications  include  tests  for appearance (visual), identification 
(temozolomide:  HPLC,  UV,  titanium  dioxide:  chemical  reaction),  Uniformity  of  dosage  units  (Ph. 
Eur.),  dissolution  (PhEur-UV),  assay  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  water content (USP) and 
microbial limits (Ph.Eur. - Non-routine test). 
7/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data are provided for two production scale batches of each dosage strength. The batches were 
manufacture by the proposed manufacturer using two different batches of drug substance. 
Results showed all batches to meet the specification in all cases. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Lactose is derived from animals for which satisfactory BSE statement has been provided. The lactose 
conforms with the Note for Guidance EMEA/410/01 rev 2. 
The  gelatine  of  the  hard  capsule  shells  is  derived  from  bovine  raw  material.  Corresponding 
certificates of suitability from the suppliers of the gelatine were presented. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Results  from  two  commercial  batches  of    5,  20  and  100  mg  (in  both  5  caps  and  20  mg  caps 
containers), one batch of 140 mg, 180 mg and two batches of 250 mg stored under normal conditions  
(25 °C / 60% RH) and intermediate conditions (30°C / 65% RH) for 12 months have been presented. 
In addition, results from two commercial batches of  5, 20 and 100 mg (in both 5 caps and 20 mg caps 
containers),  one  batch  of  140  mg,  180  mg  and  two  batches  of  250  mg  stored  under  accelerated 
conditions  (40 °C / 75% RH) for 6 months have been presented. 
For  5,  20,  100,  140  and  180  mg  an  increase  for  the  known  impurity  was  observed  at  intermediate 
conditions. 
For all strengths an increase at accelerated conditions for the main degradation product was observed. 
Except for the 250mg formulation the values were OOS after 6 months at accelerated conditions. As 
this impurity is considered to be qualified as a metabolite of temozolomide the limits for the shelf life 
of this impurity and the Total impurities were adjusted accordingly, which is considered acceptable. 
Intermediate conditions are after 12 months well within the specification for this parameter.  
No significant changes of other relevant parameters like assay and dissolution have been observed at 
any storage condition.  
Stability studies have confirmed that the polymorphic form is maintained. 
One batch of each dosage strength of Temodac capsules has been tested for photostability. 
Results showed the product can be considered stable against light when kept in the original container. 
Based on the stability data presented up to date the shelf-life and storage condition proposed by the 
applicant is considered acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects 
There  were  no  detailed  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  study  reports 
submitted by the applicant. The non-clinical studies refer to 45 publications from 1987 to 2007.  The 
applicant submitted a justification why no additional studies are required. 
Pharmacology 
A review of the literature was submitted which described the pharmacologic aspects of temozolomide.  
TMZ  has  demonstrated  anti-tumour  activity  in  vitro  against  a  variety  of  malignancies;  including 
glioma, metastatic melanoma, ependymoma and medulloblastoma among others. Overall the toxicity 
of TMZ on a range of human and murine tumour cell-lines showed a wide variation. Cell-lines which 
express low levels of the DNA repair protein AGT, which is known to protect cells from alkylating 
8/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
damage at the  6O position of guanine, show more sensitivity toward cytotoxic effects of TMZ. TMZ 
mediates AGT depletion and displays activity in cells that is inversely proportional to AGT activity in 
these cells.  
The  pharmacology  of  TMZ    in  vivo  has  been  studied  in  two  animal  models  (rat  and  mouse)  using 
different mode of administration. Subcutaneous single (160mg/kg) and repeated doses (40mg/kg/day 
for  5  days)  of  TMZ  in  mice  increased  the  survival  time  in  mice  with  subcutaneous  implanted 
lymphomas.  5-day  treatment  (40mg/kg/day)  was  more  effective  that  a  single  dose  application  of 
160mg/kg. 
adult 
including 
anaplastic 
Intraperitoneal  administration  of  TMZ  demonstrated  growth  delay  against  a  panel  of  CNS  tumour 
xenografts 
childhood  glioblastoma  multiforme, 
medulloblastoma. Using the intraperitoneal route of administration , TMZ was more effective when 
given as a single dose  0f 1200mg/m2 compared to the repeated dosing (411mg/m2 for 5 days). Hence, 
the activity of TMZ was found to be schedule dependent. The effect of TMZ (intraperitoneal dose of 
411 mg/m2/day for 5 days) on the tumour growth delays was more pronounced compared to those of 
procarbazine (intraperitoneal dose of 700mg/m2/day for 5 days). 
astrocytoma, 
Mechanisms of Resistance 
The methylation of   6O position of guanine causing base pair mismatch is the primary mechanism of 
cytotoxicity  of  MTIC.  Unsuccessful  cycles  of  mismatch  repair  eventually  lead  to  breaks  and 
permanent  nicks  in  the  daughter  strand  and  preventing  mitotic  division  and  the  cell  undergoes 
apoptosis.  The  enzyme  alkylguanine  alkyltransferase  (AGT)  is  responsible  for  removing  the  alkyl 
group from the 6O position of guanine and hence reversing the cytotoxic lesion of TMZ. Additionally, 
deficiency  in  the  mismatch  repair  which  results  in  the  failure  to  recognition  and  repair  of  the  6O 
methylguanine (6O-MG) adducts render cells tolerant to methylation and to cytotoxic effects of TMZ 
since in these cells DNA replication continues past the (6O-MG) without cell cycle arrest or apoptosis. 
However,  there  are  cell  lines  that  are  resistant  to  cytotoxic  effects  of  TMZ  despite  expressing  low 
levels of AGT which indicates that other mechanisms for resistance may be involved.  
The  applicant  submitted  a  literature  review  showing  that  metronomic  (protracted  low-dose)  TMZ 
treatment can inhibit angiogenesis in both chorioallantoic membrane and HUVEC cell based Matrigel 
assays.  Interestingly  comparing  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  (total  clearance,  volume  of 
distribution,  and  tumour  plasma  accumulation)  between  metronomic  and  conventional  TMZ  dosing 
were quite similar consistent with the linear pharmacokinetic properties of TMZ.  
Pharmacokinetics 
There  were  no  pharmacokinetic  study  reports  submitted  as  part  of  the  application.  A  review  of  the 
literature was submitted which described the pharmacokinetic aspects of temozolomide.  
TMZ is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration; peak plasma concentrations occur 
in  1  hour.  Preclinical  studies  of  TMZ  revealed  good  bioavailability  after  oral  administration, 
schedule-dependent anti-tumour activity. TMZ is not directly active but is spontaneously hydrolyzed 
at physiologic pH to the active species, 3-methyl-(triazen-1-yl)imidazole-4-carboxamide (MTIC) and 
to  temozolomide  acid  metabolite.  MTIC  is  further  hydrolyzed  to  5-amino-imidazole-4-carboxamide 
(AIC)  which  is  known  to  be  an  intermediate  in  purine  and  nucleic  acid  biosynthesis  and  to 
methylhydrazine, which is believed to be the active alkylating species.  
Tissue  distribution  was  assessed  in  rats  in  two  studies.  14C-TMZ  was  extensively  distributed  to  all 
tissues including into the brain. Penetration of temozolomide into the CNS studied in rats and rhesus 
monkeys showed that the levels of drug in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid are approximately 30% to 
40% of the plasma concentration. The metabolite MTIC, however, does not effectively penetrate the 
CNS.  Concentrations  in  brain  and  testes  appeared  to  be  highest  at  1  hour  postdose  then  decreased 
slowly; higher levels of radioactivity remained in the kidneys, liver, large and small intestinal wall, 
salivary gland and testes.  
9/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolic  studies  performed  in  mouse,  rat,  dog  and  human,  showed  comparable  metabolism  across 
species.  Cytochrome  P450  enzymes  play  only  a  minor  role  in  the  metabolism  of  TMZ  and  MTIC. 
Relative to the AUC of TMZ, the exposure to MTIC and AIC is 2.4% and 23%, respectively. About 
38%  of  the  administered  TMZ  total  radioactive  dose  is  recovered  over  7  days;  37.7%  in  urine  and 
0.8% in faeces. The majority of the recovery of radioactivity in urine is as unchanged TMZ (5.6%), 
AIC  (12%),  temozolomide  acid  metabolite  (2.3%),  and  unidentified  polar  metabolite(s)  (17%). 
Overall clearance of TMZ is about 5.5 L/hr/m2. 
Toxicology 
A  review  of  the  literature  was  submitted  which  described  the  toxicology  aspects  of  temozolomide. 
There were no toxicology studies submitted as part of the application. 
Single dose toxicity studies were performed in mice, rats, and Beagle dogs. The maximum non-lethal 
dose was 500 mg/m² (oral, i.p.) in mice, 750 (oral) and 1000 mg/m² (i.p.) in rats and 200 (males)-1500 
mg/m² (females) in dogs.  
Repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  of  up  to  6-months  duration  were  conducted  using 
dosing  regimens  consisting  of  a  5-day  treatment  period  followed  by  a  23-day  period  without 
treatment, referred to as a cycle. In rats, doses of 50 mg/m²/day were generally well tolerated up to 3 
cycles  and  in  dogs  up  to  6  cycles.  Non-clinical  studies  have  shown  the  haematopoietic  and 
lymphoreticular  systems,  gastrointestinal  tract  and  testes  to  be  the  target  sites  of  TMZ.  Except  for 
effects on testes, there was a tendency to recovery during the no treatment period. In addition, in rats, 
toxicity  to  the  mammary  gland,  the  thyroid  gland  and  the  ocular  system  was  evident.  Retinal 
degeneration appears only at very high toxic and fatal doses. Neoplastic changes were noted at 125 
mg/m²/day  in  a  6-cycle  study  and  in  female  rats, tumours were evident at all doses, starting from a 
cumulative dose of 750 mg/m². In a 3-cycle study, masses were palpable already on day 62 at a dose 
of  200 mg/m²/day. At lethal doses in the toxicity studies there were signs of potential CNS effects, 
such  as  tremors  and  prostration  (in  mice),  hypoactivity,  hunched  posture  and  partial  closure  of  the 
eyes (mice and rats) and elevated body temperature (dogs). Clinically only nausea and vomiting have 
been  observed  as  potential  CNS  effects.  No  cardiovascular  effects  have  been  seen.  There  were  no 
renal changes attributed to treatment with TMZ.  
The results observed in the pharmacological-toxicological studies indicate that rats and dogs are more 
sensitive to toxic effects of TMZ. The therapeutic dose of 200mg/m2 used and tolerated in humans is 
already within the lethal dose range for animals.  
Repeat dose toxicity studies show that TMZ has a carcinogenic potential, which could be expected of 
this kind of compound. Rats appear to be particularly sensitive to oncogenic effects of TMZ, with the 
occurrence of the first tumours within three months of initiating dosing. With 6 cycles of treatment at 
25, 50, and 125 mg/m2  (about 1/8 to 1/2 the maximum recommended daily human dose), mammary 
carcinomas  were  observed  at  all  doses  (and  even  after  a  dose  of  200mg/m2  on  5  consecutive  days 
every  28  days  for  3  cycles)  and  fibrosarcomas  of  the  heart,  eye,  seminal  vesicles,  salivary  glands, 
abdominal cavity, uterus, and prostate; carcinoma of the seminal vesicles, schwannoma of the heart, 
optic nerve, and harderian gland; and adenomas of the skin, lung, pituitary, and thyroid were observed 
at the high dose.  
The  literature  review  of  reproductive  and  development  toxicity  studies  of  TMZ  comprised  of  a 
fertility and early embryonic development study in rats (three cycles of dosing for males, two cycles 
for females), an embryo-foetal development study in rabbits (dosing on gestation Days 8-12), and a 
study  of  effects  on  pre-and  post-natal  development  (including  maternal  function)  in  rabbits  (two 
cycles of dosing).  
10/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects  such  as  increased  postimplantation  loss  and  reduced  foetal  weight  were  reported  in  rat  and 
rabbit  embryo-foetal  developmental  studies,  at  doses  lower  (150mg/m2)  than  the  recommended 
clinical  doses.  Malformations,  including  various  skeletal  anomalies  of  the head, axial skeleton, tail, 
and extremities were observed. In the pre- and post-natal development study, decreased survival rate 
of pups was reported as well as developmental delays at doses ≥75 mg/m2. While specific studies on 
excretion of TMZ in milk have not been conducted distribution studies indicate that a possible effect 
of  exposure  to  TMZ  through  milk  in  addition  to  exposure  via  the  placenta  cannot  be  ruled  out. 
Although  no  effects  on  copulation  or  fertility  were  evident  in  the  fertility  and  early  embryonic 
development study in rats, effects on the testis were observed in repeated dose toxicity studies in rats 
(≥50 mg/m2) and dogs (≥125 mg/m2) and no recovery was observed.  Thus an effect of TMZ on male 
fertility cannot be ruled out.  
There  are  no  published  preclinical  studies  available  in  the  scientific  literature  regarding  the  local 
tolerance of temozolomide. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
An ERA has not been submitted for this marketing authorisation application. 
The applicant has applied for an exemption of the Environmental risk Assessment based on the fact 
that  products  containing  temozolomide  as  drug  substance  have  been  authorised  in  the  EU  for  more 
than 10 years and that the possible risks for environment arising from use, storage and disposal of the 
medicinal product are covered by the instructions/ measures that are included in Summary of Product 
Characteristics. 
Discussion on Non-Clinical aspects 
The  non-clinical  overview  presented  by  the  Applicant  provided  an  adequate  overview  of  the 
pharmacological, pharmacokinetic and toxicological aspects of temozolomide. There were no major 
issues raised during the assessment from a non-clinical point of view. 
The  pharmacology  of  temozolomide  has  been  widely  investigated,  as  reflected  in  the  review 
submitted by the Applicant.  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  temozolomide  seem  generally  well  characterised.    The  pharmacokinetic 
profile of temozolomide was investigated in rats, mice, and dogs. 
An ERA was not submitted with this marketing authorization application. Its absence is justified since 
the  submission  refers  to  a  generic  medicinal  product  with  similar  chemical  structure,  formulation, 
known  pharmacological  properties  and  indications  for  use  as  the  reference  product  Temodal. 
Therefore, it is agreed that this additional drug product will not change the overall use pattern of the 
existing market.  
There have been no new findings which require amendments of the safety and efficacy evaluation or 
changes in SPC and PL. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The applicant has provided an updated review of the clinical use of temozolomide for the proposed 
indications with 113 publications from 1989 to 2007. 
11/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no detailed study reports from clinical trials submitted by the applicant. The application 
was submitted in accordance with Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, where the applicant was not 
required to provide the results of pre-clinical tests and of clinical trials as the medicinal product is a 
generic  of  a  reference  medicinal  product  which  is  authorised  for  6/10  years  in  a  MS  or  in  the 
Community. 
Bio-equivalence exemption 
According to section 5.3 of the guideline “Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability 
and  Bioequivalence  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98,  when  a  new  application  concerns  several  strengths 
of  the  active  substance  a  bioequivalence  study  investigating  only  one  strength  may  be  acceptable. 
Amongst other conditions, the following should be fulfilled 
• 
• 
The qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same; 
The ratio between amounts of active substance and excipients is the same, or, in the case 
         of preparations containing a low concentration of the active substance (less than 5%), 
         the ratio between the amounts of excipients is similar; 
Therefore, the strengths of 100, 140 and 180 mg, which are compositionally dose-proportional, were 
requested to be waived from the 250 mg strength. 
According  to  section  5.1.1  of  the  bioequivalence  guideline,  a  drug  exhibiting  high  solubility,  high 
permeability  and  a  high  dissolution  rate  for  the  medicinal  product  can  be  exempted  from  in  vivo 
bioequivalence studies. Since the 5 mg strength is not compositionally proportional to any of the other 
strengths,  a  Biopharmaceutics  Classification  System  (BCS)  biowaiver  was  applied  for  this  strength 
given that absorption in humans is determined to be almost 100 %,  primarily to be due to its acid-
stability and lipophilic character. 
Therefore, the strength of 5mg was requested to be waived from the 250 mg strength. 
The  bioequivalence  study  was  conducted  with  the  20  mg  and  the  250  mg  capsules.  The  20  mg 
strength  is  not  compositionally  dose-proportional  and  therefore  a  bioequivalence  study  was  also 
performed on that strength.  
Clinical studies 
To  support  the  application  the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study including both the 
250 mg and the 20 mg strength. 
The  application  contains  adequate  clinical  data  from  the  review of the publication literature for the 
proposed indications: 
•  treatment of adult patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme concomitantly with 
radiotherapy (RT) and subsequently as monotherapy treatment.  
•  treatment of children from the age of three years, adolescents and adult patients with malignant 
glioma,  such  as  glioblastoma  multiforme  or  anaplastic  astrocytoma,  showing  recurrence  or 
progression after standard therapy. 
Pharmacodynamics 
A  review  of  the  literature  was  submitted  which  described  the  clinical  pharmacodynamic  aspects  of 
temozolomide. 
There were no clinical pharmacodynamic study reports submitted as part of the application. 
12/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics  
A  review  of  the  literature  was  submitted  which  described  the  pharmacokinetic  aspects  of 
temozolomide.  There  were  no  clinical  pharmacokinetic  study  reports  submitted  as  part  of  the 
application. 
Temozolomide is not directly active but undergoes rapid nonenzymatic conversion at physiologic pH 
to the reactive compound 3-methyl-(triazen-1-yl) imidazole-4-carboxamide (MTIC).  
Absorption 
After  oral  administration  to  adult  patients,  temozolomide  is  rapidly  and  completely  absorbed,  with 
peak concentrations reached as early as 20 minutes post-administration (mean time between 0.5 and 
1.5 hours). Administration of temozolomide with food resulted in a 33 % decrease in Cmax and a 9 % 
decrease  in  AUC.  As  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  the  change  in  Cmax  is  clinically  significant, 
temozolomide should be administered without food. 
Distribution 
Temozolomide  demonstrates  low  protein  binding  (10  %  to  20  %).  The  mean  apparent  volume  of 
distribution  is  0.4  L/kg.  PET  studies  in  humans  and  preclinical  data  suggest  that  temozolomide 
crosses the blood-brain barrier rapidly and is present in the CSF.  
Metabolism 
Temozolomide is spontaneously hydrolyzed at physiologic pH primarily to the active species MTIC. 
MTIC is spontaneously hydrolyzed to 5-amino-imidazole-4-carboxamide (AIC), a known intermediate 
in  purine  and  nucleic  acid  biosynthesis,  and  to  methylhydrazine,  which  is  believed  to  be  the  active 
alkylating  species.  Cytochrome  P450  enzymes  play  only  a  minor  role  in  the  metabolism  of 
temozolomide and MTIC. 
Elimination 
The half-life (t1/2) in plasma is approximately 1.8 hours. The major route of 14C elimination is renal. 
Following oral administration, approximately 5 % to 10 % of the dose is recovered unchanged in the 
urine  over  24  hours,  and  the  remainder  excreted  as  temozolomide  acid,  5-aminoimidazole-4- 
carboxamide  (AIC)  or  unidentified  polar  metabolites.  Plasma  concentrations  increase  in  a  dose-
related manner. Plasma clearance, volume of distribution and half-life are independent of dose. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
There were no clinical or safety studies submitted as part of the application. 
The therapeutic efficacy of temozolomide in treating refractory malignant infiltrative brain turmours  
has  been  studied  in  942  adult  patients  in  15 clinical trials and in 230 children and adolescents in 4 
clinical trials.  The therapeutic efficacy of temozolomide in treating newly diagnosed glioblastomas 
and  gliomas  has  been  studied  in  1975  adult  patients  in  12  clinical  trails,  in  64  children  and 
adolescents in 2 clinical trials and in 183 elderly patients in 3 clinical trials. 
The oral temozolomide dosage regimen used in these trials was mainly 150 or 200 mg/m2/day for 5 
consecutive days, repeated every 4 weeks and showed beside an efficient response a good tolerability 
across the studies and population subgroups. In patients with recurrent brain tumours, a median PFS 
in  the  order  of  4  to  7  months    and  a  median  OS  of  7  to  17  months  have  been  reported  after 
temozolomide treatment. Temozolomide treatment in patients with newly diagnosed GBM revealed a 
median  PFS  in  the  order  of  4  to  9  months  and  a median OS of 6 to 19 months respectively. While 
adult studies with larger cohorts have confirmed a high response to temozolomide for both low-grade 
and  high-grade  AA  and  other  gliomas,  the  overall  paediatric  data  suggested  that  temozolomide´s 
activity may be less robust in children.  
13/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An EORTC/NCIC trial with 573 patients, performed by Stupp et al. (2005), provided strong support 
for the use of temozolomide in conjunction with RT in the treatment of newly diagnosed GBM. More 
than 90 % of patients in both arms completed RT, and 88 % of those in the RT plus temozolomide 
arm completed in-tended CT. Temozolomide was discontinued in 12 % of patients because of toxicity 
(5  %),  tumour  progression  (4  %),  or  other  reasons  (3  %).  Analysis  of  the  data  revealed  a  median 
survival  of  12.1  months  for  the  patients  with  RT  alone  and  14.6  months  for  patients  receiving 
combined  therapy  (p  <  0.001).  Two-year  survival  was  10.4  %  for  patients  with  RT  alone  versus  a 
remarkable 26.5 % for patients receiving combined therapy (p < 0.001). 
In clinical trials, adverse events associated with temozolomide toxicity were graded according to the 
WHO and to the CTC of the National Cancer Institute. The most common adverse events associated 
with temozolomide were drug class effects that stem from its cytotoxic mechanism of action. Sporadic 
cases of serious adverse reactions that might be due to temozolomide have also been published.  
Myelosuppression  was  the  major  dose-limiting  toxicity  in  patients  treated  with  temozolomide  as 
monotherapy and/or concomitant with RT. It was predictable but not cumulative. The most commonly 
observed side effects associated with temozolomide standard therapy were mainly mild-to-moderate 
nausea, vomiting, constipation, anorexia, headache and fatigue. 
Tolerance  at  doses  up  to  300  mg/m2/day  temozolomide  was  good.  Eight  case  reports  of  adverse 
events  during  oral  use  of  temozolomide  have  been  identified  in  the  literature.  These  included  the 
development  of  secondary,  or  treatment-related,  myelodysplasia  and  acute  myelogenous  leukaemia, 
temozolomide-associated  pneumonitis,  delirium 
interaction  between 
temozolomide  and  the  antiepileptic  drug  Dilantin)  as  well  as  one  fatal  reaction  (reactivation  of 
hepatitis B).  
(likely  caused  by  an 
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
The study was a single centre, cross-over, controlled single-dose bioequivalence study conducted on 
29  enrolled  male  and  female  patients  having  the  indication  of  treatment  with  temozolomide,  under 
fasting conditions, continued with an additional one arm clinical efficacy and safety evaluation. The 
bioequivalence  part  of  the  study  was  conducted  in  the  second  cycle  of  a  temozolomide  treatment 
including  up  to  six  temozolomide  cycles. In order to obtain also efficacy data, the test product was 
administered in all cycles of the treatment.  
The bioequivalence part of the study was performed for two different strengths of temozolomide; Test 
1  (Temozolomide  250  mg  capsules)  versus  Reference  1  (Temodal  250  mg  capsules)  and  Test  2 
(Temozolomide 20 mg capsules) versus Reference 2 (Temodal 20 mg capsules). Because of the safety 
profile  of  temozolomide,  the  study  was  performed  in  patients  instead  of  healthy  volunteers.  During 
the whole study period the following concomitant medication was permitted: antiepileptics except for 
valproic  acid,  antiemetics,  anti  cerebral  oedema  treatment,  other  treatments  e.g.  painkillers  as 
prescribed by the clinical investigator in case of adverse events that requires medication.  
The administration schedule was as follows: 
Cycle 1: Temozolomide as Test 1 (250 mg) or Test 2 (20 mg) or a combination of both were given 
once daily for five consecutive days. A total dose of 1000 mg/m2 with a tolerance of ± 15% was given 
in cycle 1.  
Cycle 2 (bioequivalence part): The subjects were admitted to the clinical centre in the evening prior to 
day 1.  
Days  1  and  2:  On  both  treatment  days,  after  an  overnight  fast  of  at  least  10  hours,  each  subject 
received one hard capsule of Test 1 (250 mg) or Reference 1 (250 mg). 
14/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Days  3  and  4:  On  both  treatment  days,  after  an  overnight  fast  of  at  least  10  hours,  each  subject 
received the same entire doses of Test 2 (20 mg) or Reference 2 (20 mg). The dosage closest possible 
(due  to  the  tablet  size)  to  the  ideal  one  for  each  patient  was  administered.  The  number  of  20  mg 
capsules administered was different for each patient and varied from 17 to 31 capsules/day. 
In all four days with pharmacokinetic profiling, all study products were administered orally with 240 
ml  of  room  temperature  plain  water.  Standard  light  meals  were  served  at  6,  9  and  12  hours  post-
dosing, respectively, on days 1 to 4 of the second cycle. Free access to water was granted until 2 hours 
before each drug administration. Blood samples were collected pre-dose and at 10 min, 20 min, 0.5, 
0.75, 1, 1.33, 1.67, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 12 hours post-dose on days 1 to 4. Blood samples were 
immediately put on wet ice until centrifuged to separate the plasma. The plasma was put in duplicate 
empty  test  tubes  (for  determination  of  MTIC  and  AIC)  or  tubes  containing  phosphoric  acid  (for 
determination of temozolomide). Plasma samples were stored at -70 ºC pending analysis.  
Day 5: The dose was adjusted in order to obtain at least 1000 mg/m2 per cycle with a tolerance of ± 
15%, as a multiple of Test 1 and Test 2. No additional blood sampling was performed. 
Cycles 3-6: Dosages received by the patients in the following treatment cycles (starting with cycle nr. 
3 until the last cycle performed) were to be presented at the end of the entire study, in an addendum to 
the present report. This addendum was not included in the file, or could at least not be found, by the 
assessor. 
The study was complying with GCP, as claimed by the applicant. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
Test  product  1:  Temozolomide  250  mg,  hard capsules manufactured by Nerviano Medical Sciences 
S.r.I.,  Italy,  Batch  No.  N0800062,  Manufacturing  date:  01/2008  has  been  compared  to  Reference 
product  1:  Temodal  250  mg,  hard  capsules  by  Schering-Plough  Ltd,  Batch  No.  121660207,  Expiry 
date: 07/2009. 
Test  product  2:  Temozolomide  20  mg,  hard  capsules  manufactured  by  Nerviano  Medical  Sciences 
S.r.I.,  Italy,  Batch  No.  N0700751,  Manufacturing  date:  12/2007  has  been  compared  to  Reference 
product 2: Temodal 20 mg, hard capsules by Schering-Plough Ltd, Batch No. 12167002, Expiry date: 
07/2009. 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
A  total  of  29  male  (n=18)  and  female  (n=11)  patients  aged  21-69  years  and  with  a  BMI  of  21-37 
kg/m2  were  enrolled  in  the  study.  Out  of  these  27  started  and  completed  the  pharmacokinetic 
determination part of the study (treatment cycle 2, days 1-4). Two patients were withdrawn before the 
second treatment cycle due to death (No. 18) and due to thrombocytopenia (No. 21). 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
Temozolomide  in  plasma  was  determined  using  a  validated  HPLC-MS/MS  method,  and  an  internal 
standard (IS) in the interval 17-19 Sept 2008; 22 Dec 2008-15 Jan 2009. 
All experiments were carried out on acidified plasma in order to avoid hydrolysis of temozolomide. 
For the same reason, phosphoric acid was added to the study samples immediately after sampling. 
15/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-validation:  
Sample  pre-treatment  involved  liquid-liquid  extraction.  Selectivity  was  shown  employing  eight 
independent  sources  of  human  plasma.  No  significant  interference  at  the  retention  times  for 
temozolomide or IS was observed. Sensitivity at the limit of quantification was shown. Linearity was 
demonstrated  within  the  calibration  range.  Satisfactory  between-  and  within-run  accuracy  and 
precision  was  shown  for  QC-samples  at  four  concentrations.  Recovery  was  found  within  an 
acceptable  range  for  both  temozolomide  and  IS.  Dilution  integrity  was  demonstrated  for  an 
appropriate  dilution  factor.  Stability  in  plasma  was  demonstrated  for  3  h  on  crunched  ice,  for  9 
months  at  -70  ºC,  and  over  three  freeze-thaw  cycles.  The  potential  interference  of  the  metabolites 
MTIC and AIC was also tested; no interference was observed. 
Within-study validation: 
A  total  of  1728  plasma  samples  were  analysed  of  which  27  were  reanalysed.  Satisfactory  method 
performance  during  study  sample  analysis  was  demonstrated.  Appropriate  batch  acceptance  criteria 
were used. Repeated analysis was adequately justified. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The following pharmacokinetic parameters were determined: AUC0-inf, AUC0-t, Cmax, AUC%extra, 
t½,  MRT  and  Kel.  Conventional  non-compartmental  methods  were  used  to  determine  the 
pharmacokinetic parameters. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
The  effect  of  sequence,  subject  (nested  in  sequence),  period  (day  of  treatment)  and  treatment  on  
temozolomide  Cmax  and  AUC0-t  was  separately  evaluated,  on  log-transformed  data,  using  the 
ANOVA  latin  square  2  treatments  worksheet  of  SAS.  Tmax  data  was  compared  using  the  non-
parametric Wilcoxon Signed Rank test. 
The  bioequivalence  acceptance  interval  was  set  to  80-125%  for  the  primary  pharmacokinetic 
parameters Cmax and AUC0-t.  
• 
Results 
The results from the bioequivalence study is found in table 1 (temozolomide 250 mg) and table 2 
(temozolomide 20 mg) below. 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax 
median, range) for Temozolomide 250 mg; Test 1/Ref 1 (n=27). 
Treatment 
Test 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
22850±5857 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
23520±5733 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
7063±2688 
tmax 
h 
1.000 
(0.333-6.000) 
0.750 
(0.167-6.000) 
- 
Reference 
22722±5349 
23323±5282 
7258±2121 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
99.66 
(95.72-103.77) 
100.21 
(97.07-103.45) 
94.20 
(85.44-103.85) 
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours 
AUC0-∞  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity 
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration 
tmax 
*ln-transformed values  
time for maximum plasma concentration 
16/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax 
median, range) for Temozolomide 20 mg; Test 2/Ref 2 (n=27). 
Cmax 
Treatment 
ng/ml 
14113±3017 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
41044±6295 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
41714±6361 
Test 
tmax 
h 
0.500 
(0.167-1.333) 
0.750 
(0.333-3.000) 
- 
Reference 
40061±4977 
40640±5081 
13807±3531 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
101.92 
(99.72-104.16) 
102.11 
(99.91-104.36) 
103.23 
(94.44-112.84) 
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours 
AUC0-∞  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity 
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration 
tmax 
*ln-transformed values  
time for maximum plasma concentration 
The extrapolated AUC was less than 20% in all subjects, except for subject No. 24 who had an 
extrapolated AUC of 20.833% after administration of temozolomide 250 mg. 
(cid:131) 
Conclusions 
Based on the submitted bioequivalence study Temozolomide Teva  20 mg and 250 mg hard capsules 
are considered bioequivalent with Temodal 20 mg and 250 mg hard capsules. 
The  results  of  study  TEM-BESD-01-TIE/07  with  the  20  mg  and  250  mg  formulation  can  be 
extrapolated  to  the  strengths  100  mg,  140  mg  and  180  mg,  according  to  the  conditions  in  Note  for 
Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  CPMP/EWP/1401/98,  section 
5.3.  
The  strength  of  5  mg  is  considered  bioequivalent  based  on  the  concept  of  BCS-based  biowaiver 
according  to  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/1401/98, section 5.1.1. 
Additional data 
No additional studies were submitted as part of this application. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.   
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131) 
PSUR 
The  PSUR  submission  schedule  for  Temozolomide  Teva  should  follow  the  PSUR  schedule  for  the 
reference  medicinal product, Temodal. 
(cid:131) 
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system, version 7 dated May 2009 as described by 
the applicant fulfils the legislative requirements and provides adequate evidence that the applicant has 
the services of a qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for 
the notification of any adverse reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third 
country. The company must ensure that this system is in place and functioning before the product is 
placed on the market. 
17/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131) 
Risk Management Plan 
No  description  of  Risk  Management  plan  (RMP)  has  been  provided  by  the  Applicant  since  the 
application  concerns  a  medicinal  product  containing  a  known  active  substance  for  which  no  safety 
concern requiring additional risk minimisation activities has been identified. 
The  well  established  active  ingredient  has  been  in  use  for  many  years  and  the  safety  profile  of  the 
products is very well established. 
Routine  pharmacovigilance  activities  according  to  volume  9A/ICH  will  be  undertaken  whilst  the 
product is in the market, including careful review of individual case safety reports, literature review, 
signal detection procedures and generation of the required safety reports. Specific risk minimisation 
activities are not envisaged as the safety aspects of the product are well characterised and therefore a 
Risk Minimisation plan is not required. 
(cid:131) 
User consultation 
The user testing of the package leaflet was performed. The criterion for a successful Readability Test 
was fulfilled. The user testing of the package leaflet was judged acceptable. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
Temozolomide  has  a  well-recognized  efficacy  and  an  acceptable  level  of  safety  in  the  indications 
claimed for Temozolomide Teva and no additional clinical studies are needed.  
The  clinical  overview  provides  an  adequate  summary  of  the  clinical  pharmacology,  efficacy  and 
safety of temozolomide. There were no clinical study reports submitted as part of this application  
To  support  the  application,  the  Applicant  has  submitted  one  single-dose  cross-over  bioequivalence 
study with the 20 mg and the 250 mg strength in adult cancer patients under fasting conditions. The 
study was conducted on day 1-4 of a 5-days treatment cycle with temozolomide (250 mg given on day 
1  and  2  and  20  mg  given  on  day  3  and  4).  The  bioequivalence  study  in  patients  is  considered 
acceptable since temozolomide is a cytotoxic substance and not suitable for administration in healthy 
volunteers.  A  study  under  fasting  conditions  is  adequate given that the reference product should be 
administered  without  food.  Bioequivalence  was  shown  for  Cmax,  AUC0-t  and  AUC0-inf  for 
temozolomide using the conventional acceptance criteria of 80-125%. 
A biowaiver was requested for the 100 mg, 140 mg and 180 mg strength, which is acceptable from a 
pharmacokinetic point of view since the pharmacokinetics of temozolomide is linear. 
For  the  5  mg  strength  a  BCS-based  biowaiver  was  requested.  This  is  considered  acceptable  from  a 
pharmacokinetic point of view as the absorption of temozolomide is linear and complete.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  Applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements and provides adequate evidence that the Applicant has the services of a qualified person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
The dossier in question refers to a generic product with a well known active substance which has been 
marketed  for  many  years  throughout  the  EU.  The  applicant  considers  no  need  for  additional  risk 
minimisation measures apart from routine pharmacovigilance.  
18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The non-clinical and clinical literature review provides a consistent overview of the pharmacological, 
pharmacokinetic  and  toxicological  aspects  of  temozolomide.  Therefore,  there  were  no objections to 
the approval of Temozolomide Teva 5, 20, 100, 140, 180, 250 mg hard capsules from a non-clinical 
and clinical point of view. Temozolomide Teva hard capsules should only be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the oncological treatment of brain tumours. 
An exemption for the ERA can be given for this product since this generic application has identical 
posology to the active substance. The CHMP agrees that no changes in the environmental risks that 
are not already known for temozolomide are to be anticipated. 
An  RMP  was  considered  not  required  as  there  are  no  safety  concerns  requiring  additional  risk 
minimisation activities with respect to the reference medicinal product. It was considered that routine 
pharmacovigilance according to the Detailed Description of Pharmacovigilance System was sufficient 
for safety monitoring, without the need for additional actions. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data.  A  benefit/risk  balance 
comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  available  data,  the  CHMP  considered  by  consensus  that  the 
benefit/risk ratio of Temozolomide Teva in the treatment of: 
adult  patients  with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme concomitantly with radiotherapy (RT) 
and subsequently as monotherapy treatment,  
and children from the age of three years, adolescents and adult patients with malignant glioma, such 
as  glioblastoma  multiforme  or  anaplastic  astrocytoma,  showing  recurrence  or  progression  after 
standard therapy, 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
19/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
