26 November 2012 
EMA/14060/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Temodal 
temozolomide 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/000229/A-20/0060 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment ...................................... 5 
4. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 5 
Assessment report  
EMA/14060/2013  
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
The US Food and Drug Administration informed the European Medicines Agency that following an 
inspection, concerns have been raised about the conduct of bio-analytical studies performed by the 
Cetero research facilities in Houston (Texas, USA) during the period from April 2005 to June 2010. The 
inspection identified significant instances of misconduct and violations of federal regulations, including 
falsification of documents and manipulation of samples. Other Cetero Research sites were not affected. 
In the European Union, it was identified that this could potentially impact the marketing authorisation 
of Temodal. 
On 16 November 2011 the European Medicines Agency (EMA) informed relevant MAHs that the Food 
and Drug Administration had raised concerns, following its inspection of Cetero Research facilities in 
Houston (Texas, USA), on the conduct of bio-analytical studies in the period between April 2005 and 
June 2010. The EMA asked MAH of all centrally authorised medicinal products to identify the products 
for which the marketing authorisation dossier included studies conducted at the above mentioned 
facility. 
The MAH for Temodal provided responses on 15 December 2011. 
On 2 May 2012, the FDA informed the EMA of a letter sent to Cetero confirming that, based on the 
final results of the inspection, the period of concern for which data generated by Cetero was considered 
potentially unreliable and for which the FDA recommended actions to be taken is from April 2005 to 
August 2009. 
A Rapporteur’s assessment report on the MAH’s responses was circulated on 5 July 2012. 
In view of the above the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004. The European Commission requested the CHMP on 16 July 2012 to assess whether 
the deficiencies in conduct of bio-analytical studies performed by the Cetero Research facilities in 
Houston (Texas, USA) have impact on the benefit-risk balance of Temodal, and to give its opinion on 
whether measures are necessary to ensure the safe use of the product and specifically on whether the 
marketing authorisation for Temodal should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Temodal contains temozolomide (TMZ), a nearly 100% orally available pro-drug of monomethyl 
triazenoimidazole carboxamide (MTIC), an alkylating agent related to dacarbazine and procarbazine. 
Temodal is authorised via the centralised procedure and all formulations and strengths are indicated in 
the treatment of adult patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme concomitantly with 
radiotherapy and subsequently as mono-therapy treatment as well as in children from the age of three 
years, adolescents and adult patients with malignant glioma, such as glioblastoma multiforme or 
anaplastic astrocytoma, showing recurrence or progression after standard therapy. Temodal is 
available as 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg and 250 mg hard capsules (first authorised on 26th January 1999) 
and as 140 mg and 180 mg hard capsules (authorised on  23rd April 2007). Temodal is also authorised 
as a 2.5 mg/ml powder for solution for infusion (authorised on 17th February 2009), for patients with 
brain tumours unable to swallow the oral formulation. Dose recommendations for the oral and the 
intravenous (IV) formulations are identical and based on mg per sqm of body surface area). 
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
The MAH stated that two pivotal studies supporting the line extension EMEA/H/C/229/X/35 which 
granted the additional powder for infusion formulations were study P02466 “A Pilot Comparative 
Bioavailability Study of Oral and Intravenously Administered Temozolomide in Patients With Primary 
CNS Malignancies”  (initiated on 10th December 2004 and completed on 30th August 2005) and study 
P02467 “A Bioequivalence Trial of Oral and Intravenously Administered Temozolomide in Patients with 
Primary CNS Malignancies” (initiated on 29th September 2006 and completed on 18th October 2007). 
The scope of both trials was to show a 100% oral bioavailability of the capsules and consequently 
implement identical posology for the capsules and the powder for infusion for each individual indication 
respectively. Both studies were analysed by Cetero Research during the identified period of concern. 
Assessment report  
EMA/14060/2013  
Page 3/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH provided responses to the CHMP list of questions by stating that in January 2006, it received 
scientific advice from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) regarding the 
registration of the intravenous formulation of temozolomide (TMZ) and specifically for its clinical 
development. The CHMP agreed that since the oral bioavailability of TMZ is close to 100%, a bridging 
program to the oral formulation was sufficient to support the IV registration. In particular, a clinical 
program was designed to establish the pharmacokinetic profiles of TMZ and MTIC obtained with IV 
administration compared to those obtained with oral administration. 
In study C95-006 (not conducted or analysed by Cetero Research and submitted within the initial 
application for the oral formulation) which investigated the absorption, metabolism and excretion of 
orally administered 14C radiolabelled TMZ in humans, less than 1% of the dose was recovered in 
faeces, demonstrating that more than 99% of the dose was absorbed. The IV dose, because it 
bypasses the absorptive process, would by definition be completely absorbed. Additionally, prior to the 
development of Temodal  the Cancer Research Campaign independently conducted an absolute 
bioavailability study using a capsule formulation of TMZ and intravenously administered TMZ, and the 
mean (n=5 patients) oral bioavailability was calculated as 109%. The MAH also referred to preclinical 
studies submitted in the initial application for the oral formulation, which demonstrated complete (95 
to 100%) bioavailability of TMZ when administered orally to rats (studies P-5864 and P-6097) and 
beagle dogs (studies P-5892 and P-6098). The MAH considered that collectively, this data confirms the 
complete bioavailability of the oral formulation in humans, independently of the evidence obtained 
from studies analysed by Cetero Research. The MAH therefore considered there to be little further 
clinical value in re-determining the exact bioavailability of the two formulations in order to establish 
bioequivalence between the oral and IV formulations of TMZ. 
As further evidence that the oral and IV formulations of TMZ result in equivalent exposure, the MAH 
resubmitted some additional modelling and simulation analyses, demonstrating similar exposure 
following administration of the IV and oral formulation. These analyses, which did not involve Cetero 
Research, were submitted in the original IV line extension application. The first analysis assessed the 
feasibility of the bioequivalence strategy of oral and IV TMZ, while the second simulated cross-over 
bioequivalence study designs between the PO and IV formulations. The simulations showed that a 
bioequivalence study comparing oral TMZ administration to a 1.5 hour IV infusion would have a 
probability of over 90% of successfully showing bioequivalence. The MAH considered that these 
simulations support the bioequivalence of the IV and oral formulations. 
Finally, the MAH stated that based on experience acquired from the original bioequivalence study, 
enrolment in a repeated bioequivalence study will be difficult and completion is estimated to take over 
2 years. The MAH considered that conducting such a trial would also present hardships to patient who 
can take oral TMZ and therefore have no reason to take IV and to patients who cannot take oral TMZ, 
and hence need the IV. The MAH therefore considered that participation in a new bioequivalence study 
would provide no benefit to patients who require the IV formulation and would serve as an 
inconvenience and potential risk to subjects who are able to take oral TMZ. 
In conclusion, the MAH did not consider that the concerns raised regarding the bio-analytical analyses 
conducted at the Cetero Research facilities in Houston affect the validity of the line extension to the IV 
formulation, as the nearly 100% bioavailability of oral TMZ and the bioequivalence of the oral and IV 
TMZ formulations is supported by scientific results from independent studies not conducted by Cetero 
Research, as supported by the modelling and simulation information. In addition, the concerns 
associated with conducting a repeat study support the proposal not to repeat a bioequivalence study. 
The CHMP, having carried out an initial assessment of the findings of the inspection of the Cetero 
Research facilities, concluded that these did not impact the benefit-risk of the oral formulations and 
that only IV formulations were potentially affected. 
The CHMP noted the scientific advice received by the MAH in 2006, in the context of a line extension to 
introduce an intravenous formulation, stated that a bioequivalence trial was required in order to waive 
the requirement of a confirmatory and comparative (oral vs. intravenous) phase III clinical trial. The 
MAH complied with this requirement by conducting the studies P02466 and P02467. However, 
considering the uncertainties raised by the potential deficiencies in the conduct of bio-analytical studies 
by the Cetero Research facilities, the CHMP assessed the MAH arguments and data to determine 
whether a nearly complete oral bioavailability allows to conclude on the bioequivalence of the IV 
formulation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/14060/2013  
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP noted that the absolute oral bioavailability of temozolomide is excellent, or near 100%, in 
several species other than humans. It was also noted that trial C95-006, which was not analysed by 
Cetero Research provides strong evidence that oral bioavailability is close to 100%, as currently stated 
in Section 5.2 of the Temodal SmPC. The simulation of the bioequivalence trial submitted by the MAH 
suggests that absorption after oral administration is rapid and complete and shows cmax and AUC 
values very similar to those obtained with intravenous administration. In addition, the result of the 
published trial ‘Phase I dose-escalation and pharmacokinetic study of temozolomide (SCH 52365) for 
refractory or relapsing malignancies’ (Brada et al, 1999), suggests both a 100% bioavailability and a 
bioequivalent behaviour of oral and intravenous temozolomide. In conclusion, the CHMP therefore 
considered rapid and “nearly complete” oral bioavailability of temozolomide to be well-established and 
also agreed that the bioavailability of oral temozolomide has been indirectly shown to be close to 100% 
in trials other than the questioned studies P02466 and P02467. 
3.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
In conclusion, given the rapid and nearly complete oral bioavailability of temozolomide, established 
independently from analyses performed by Cetero Research, as well as the lack of any safety signal for 
the powder for solution for infusion, the CHMP considered it highly unlikely that the absence of exact 
data on the actual oral bioavailability of temozolomide would raise safety concerns with regard to the 
current posology of the powder for solution for infusion. The CHMP considered the bioequivalent 
behaviour of intravenous and oral Temodal to be sufficient to support the waiving of performing a 
further oral bioavailability trial, or a formal bioequivalence trial and therefore concluded that the 
concerns raised regarding the bio-analytical analyses conducted at the Cetero Research facilities in 
Houston did not impact the efficacy and safety of the intravenous Temodal formulation, despite the 
doubts regarding the reliability of studies P02467 and P02466. As a consequence, the CHMP was of the 
opinion that the findings of the inspection of the Cetero Research facilities in Houston (Texas, USA) did 
not impact the benefit-risk balance of any of the authorised Temodal formulations. 
4.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas, 
• 
• 
• 
The Committee considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, for 
Temodal, initiated by the European Commission. 
The Committee reviewed the relevant available data. 
The Committee concluded, in view of available data, in particular evidence of a rapid and 
nearly complete oral bioavailability of temozolomide, that any potential deficiencies in the 
conduct of bio-analytical studies by the Cetero Research facilities do not impact on the benefit-
risk balance of Temodal. 
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Temodal remains positive 
under normal conditions of use.  
Assessment report  
EMA/14060/2013  
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
 
