EMA/470505/2014  
EMEA/H/C/001124 
EPAR summary for the public 
Temomedac 
temozolomide 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Temomedac. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Temomedac. 
What is Temomedac? 
Temomedac is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance temozolomide. It is available as 
capsules (5, 20, 100, 140, 180 and 250 mg). 
Temomedac is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Temomedac is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Temodal. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Temomedac used for? 
Temomedac is used to treat malignant glioma (brain tumours) in the following groups of patients: 
• 
• 
adults with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (an aggressive type of brain tumour). 
Temomedac is used first with radiotherapy and then on its own; 
adults and children three years of age and over with malignant glioma such as glioblastoma 
multiforme or anaplastic astrocytoma, when the tumour has returned or got worse after standard 
treatment. Temomedac is used on its own in these patients. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Temomedac used? 
Treatment with Temomedac should be prescribed by a doctor with experience in the treatment of brain 
tumours. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The dose of Temomedac depends on body surface area (calculated using the patient’s height and 
weight) and ranges from 75 to 200 mg per square metre, once a day. The dose and the number of 
doses depend on the type of tumour being treated, whether the patient has been treated before, 
whether Temomedac is being used alone or with other treatments, and how the patient responds to 
treatment. 
Temomedac capsules should be taken whole without food. Patients may also need to take medicines to 
prevent vomiting before taking Temomedac.  
For full details, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Temomedac work? 
The active substance in Temomedac, temozolomide, belongs to a group of cancer medicines called 
alkylating agents. In the body, temozolomide is converted to another compound called MTIC. MTIC 
binds to the DNA of cells while they are reproducing, which stops cell division. As a result, the cancer 
cells cannot divide, slowing down the growth of tumours. 
How has Temomedac been studied? 
Because Temomedac is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to determine 
that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Temodal. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Temomedac? 
Because Temomedac is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefit 
and risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicine. 
Why has Temomedac been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Temomedac has been shown to have 
comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Temodal. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for 
Temodal, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Temomedac be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Temomedac: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Temomedac 
on 25 January 2010.  
The full EPAR for Temomedac can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Temomedac, read the Package Leaflet (also part of the EPAR). 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2014.  
Temomedac  
EMA/470505/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
