European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Temozolomide Hospira 
International Non-proprietary Name: 
temozolomide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/1125 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 8 
Clinical Aspects ..................................................................................................................... 12 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 18 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ...................................... 19 
© EMA 2010 
 2/20 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  Hospira  UK  Limited  submitted  on  28  January  2009  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Temozolomide Hospira, in accordance 
with  the  centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004 
under Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(2)(b)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation has been granted in 
the  Community  on  the  basis  of  a  complete  dossier  in  accordance  with  Article  8(3)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC, as amended.  
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Temodal 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg, 140 mg, 
180 mg, 250 mg hard capsules 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering Plough Europe 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation:  26 January 1999 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  Community 
(cid:131)  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/096/001-012 
■ Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Member State where the application 
is made or European reference medicinal product:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Temodal 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg, 140 mg, 
180 mg, 250 mg hard capsules 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering Plough Europe 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation:  26 January 1999 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
(cid:131)  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/096/001 -012 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Temodal 250 mg hard capsules 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering Plough Europe 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation:  26 January 1999   
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
(cid:131)  Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/98/096/007, 008 
(cid:131)  Bioavailability study number(s):  
The Rapporteur, appointed by the CHMP was Beatriz Silva Lima  
© EMA 2010 
 3/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 28 January 2009.  
The procedure started on 25 February 2009. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
15 May 2009.  
During  the  meeting  on  22  –  25  June  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 25 June 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
17 September 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 4 Novermber 2009.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  16-19  November  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. (The final List of Outstanding 
Issues was sent to the applicant on 20 November 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
30 November 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 09 December 2009.  
During  the  meeting  on  14-17  December  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Temozolomide Hospira on 17 December 2009.  
The applicant provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-
authorisation on 14 December 2009. 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Temozolomide Hospira 5, 20, 100, 140, 180 and 250 mg hard capsules is a generic medicinal product 
containing  temozolomide  as  active  substance.  The  reference  medicinal  product  Temodal  5,  20,  100, 
140,  180,  250  mg  hard  capsules,  has  been  centrally  authorized  on  26  January  1999.  The  active 
substance of the reference product is temozolomide. 
Temozolomide (TMZ) is the 3-methyl derivative of mitozolomide and chemically related to another 
imidazole  carboxamide  namely  dacarbazine.  Both  dacarbazine  and  TMZ  are  not  directly  active  and 
cleave to form the linear triazene 5-(3-methyl)1-triazen-1-yl-imiazole-4- carboxamide (MTIC) which 
is  the  reactive  metabolite  responsible  for  DNA  alkylation.  Unlike  dacarbazine,  which  requires 
metabolic dealkylation (a relatively inefficient process in humans compared to rodents) to form MTIC, 
TMZ  undergoes  rapid  nonenzymatic  conversion  to  MTIC  under  physiological  condition.  The 
cytotoxicity of MTIC is thought to be primarily due to alkylation of DNA. Alkylation (methylation) 
occurs  mainly  at  the  N7  and  6O  positions  of  guanine  although  methylation  at  the  3O  position  also 
occurs. 
Temozolomide  Hospira  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  newly-diagnosed 
glioblastoma  multiforme  concomitantly  with  radiotherapy  (RT)  and  subsequently  as  monotherapy 
treatment. Temozolomide Hospira is also indicated for the treatment of children from the age of three 
© EMA 2010 
 4/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
years,  adolescents  and  adult  patients  with  malignant  glioma,  such  as  glioblastoma  multiforme  or 
anaplastic astrocytoma, showing recurrence or progression after standard therapy. 
Temozolomide  Hospira  5,  20,  100,  140,  180,  250  mg  hard  capsules  is  administered  in  combination 
with  focal  radiotherapy  (concomitant  phase)  followed  by  up  to  6  cycles  of  temozolomide 
(Temozolomide) monotherapy (monotherapy phase). 
In  the  concomitant  phase,  Temozolomide  is  administered  orally  at  a  dose  of  75  mg/m²  daily  for  42 
days concomitant with focal radiotherapy (60 Gy administered in 30 fractions). No dose reductions are 
recommended,  but  delay  or  discontinuation  of  Temozolomide  administration  should  be  decided 
weekly  according  to  haematological  and  non-haematological  toxicity  criteria.  Temozolomide 
administration can be continued throughout the 42 day concomitant period (up to 49 days) if all of the 
following conditions are met: 
-  
-  
-  
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 x 109/l 
thrombocyte count ≥ 100 x 109/l 
common  toxicity  criteria  (CTC)  non-haematological  toxicity  ≤  Grade  1  (except  for  alopecia, 
nausea and vomiting). 
During treatment a complete blood count should be obtained weekly.  
Four  weeks  after  completing  the  Temozolomide  +  RT  concomitant  phase,  Temozolomide  is 
administered  for  up  to  6  cycles  of  monotherapy  treatment.  Dose  in  Cycle  1  (monotherapy)  is  150 
mg/m² once daily for 5 days followed by 23 days without treatment. At the start of Cycle 2, the dose is 
escalated to 200 mg/m² if the CTC nonhaematological toxicity for Cycle 1 is Grade ≤ 2 (except for 
alopecia, nausea and vomiting), absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is ≥ 1.5 x 109/l, and the thrombocyte 
count  is  ≥  100  x  109/l.  If  the  dose  was  not  escalated  at  Cycle  2,  escalation  should  not  be  done  in 
subsequent cycles. Once escalated, the dose remains at 200 mg/m² per day for the first 5 days of each 
subsequent  cycle  except  if  toxicity  occurs.  Dose  reductions  and  discontinuations  during  the 
monotherapy phase may be applied. 
During treatment a complete blood count should be obtained on Day 22 (21 days after the first dose of 
Temozolomide).  
For  adults  and  paediatric  patients  3  years  of  age  or  older  with  recurrent  or  progressive  malignant 
glioma,  a  treatment  cycle  comprises  28  days.  In  patients  previously  untreated  with  chemotherapy, 
Temozolomide is administered orally at a dose of 200 mg/m² once daily for the first 5 days followed 
by a 23 day treatment interruption (total of 28 days). In patients previously treated with chemotherapy, 
the initial dose is 150 mg/m² once daily, to be increased in the second cycle to 200 mg/m² once daily, 
for 5 days if there is no haematological toxicity (see SPC section 4.2). 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Temozolomide  Hospira  is  presented  as  hard  gelatin  capsules  containing  temozolomide  as  active 
substance. Six strengths have been developed: 5, 20, 100, 140, 180 and 250 mg. Other ingredients are 
defined in the SPC, section 6.1. The capsules are packed in amber glass bottles with child resistant cap 
(glass type III) or HDPE bottles with child resistant cap inside a cardboard carton.  
Active Substance  
The  chemical  name  of  temozolomide  is  (2)  3,4-dihydro-3-methyl-4-oxoimidazo[5,1-d]-1,2,3,5- 
tetrazine-8-carboxamide  corresponding  to  the  molecular  formula  C6H6N6O2  and  relative  molecular 
mass 194.15.  
© EMA 2010 
 5/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O
N
NH2
N
N
N
N
CH3
O
It appears as a white to light tan /light pink non-hygroscopic powder that is slightly soluble in water 
and  acetonitrile  and  very  slightly  soluble  in  methanol.  Temozolomide  is  achiral  but  shows 
polymorphism, one polymorphic form  is  consistently formed  during the active substance production 
and used in the manufacture of the finished product. 
There is no Ph. Eur. or USP monograph for temozolomide.  
•  Manufacture 
The temozolomide active substance is supplied by one manufacturer. An Active Substance Master File 
(ASMF) for temozolomide has been submitted. The manufacturing process of temozolomide  is a one 
step  synthesis  followed  by  purification.  Satisfactory  specifications  and  certificates  of  analysis  are 
presented  for  all  reagents,  raw  materials  and  solvents  used  in  the  manufacture  of  temozolomide  and 
for all critical steps and intermediates used in the manufacture of temozolomide. 
Statements from the Qualified Persons of the finished product manufacturers confirming that the 
manufacturing of the active substance is performed in compliance with current EU GMP or ICH Q7A 
are provided. 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  as  tested  by  the  finished  product  manufacturer  includes  tests  for 
appearance (visual), identification (FTIR, UV, HPLC and XRD), loss on drying (Ph.Eur.), residue on 
ignition  (Ph.Eur.),  heavy  metals  (Ph.Eur.),  assay  (95-105  %,  HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC), 
residual solvents (GC), microbial tests (Ph.Eur.), density (Ph.Eur.), and particle size.  
All  active  substance  specifications  are  considered  adequately  justified  and  the  analytical  procedures 
have been satisfactorily described and validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. The impurity 
limits are acceptable and there is no concern from the point of view of safety. Batch analysis data have 
been presented and show compliance with the predefined active substance specification. 
•  Stability 
Stability  results  have  been  provided  for  three  pilot scale  batches  and  three production  scale  batches; 
the following parameters have been included in the stability program: description, identification (IR), 
Loss on Drying, impurities (HPLC) and assay (98-102%). The batches have been stored for up to 24 
months  in  long  term  ICH  stability  conditions,  and  up  to  6  months  in  accelerated  ICH  stability 
condition. The stability data show compliance with the proposed retest period.  
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to formulate a conventional solid oral dosage form 
(hard capsule) containing respectively 5, 20, 100, 140, 180 and 250 mg temozolomide per capsule and 
being bioequivalent to the reference medicinal product, Temodal. 
The  applicant  developed  a  250  mg,  180  mg,  140  mg,  100  mg  and  20  mg  capsule  which  are  dose-
proportional with regards to the amount of active substance and excipients and fill weight. The lowest 
capsule strength, 5 mg, is not dose-proportional to the other strengths, but the 5 mg capsule has the 
same quantitative composition of excipients as the 100 mg strength, except from a higher amount of 
lactose  used  as  additional  filler.  The  applicant  has  adequately  justified  on  practical  manufacturing 
grounds  such  as  the  wide  range  of  strengths  that  it  was  not  possible  to  develop  a  5mg  formulation 
which is dose-proportional to the 250mg strength in terms of the excipients and weight.  
© EMA 2010 
 6/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The excipients used for Temozolomide Hospira are different from the innovator product, Temodal. All 
excipients  used  in  Temozolomide  Hospira  are  commonly  used  in  this  pharmaceutical  oral  dosage 
forms and comply with the Ph. Eur. 
Compatibility of the excipients in the formulation and with the active substance is confirmed by the 
stability studies.  
Because temozolomide can be considered as a BCS class I active substance, and taking into account 
this medicine’s pharmacokinetic properties supported by solubility data provided by the applicant, the 
particle size is not considered to have any impact on the dissolution properties. It has also been shown 
that polymorphism has been properly studied and no change in the polymorphic form present in the 
finished product is expected during shelf life.  
Dissolution  studies  and  comparative  dissolution  profiles  with  the  reference  medicinal  product  have 
been provided and dissolution characteristics are considered satisfactory.   
A bioequivalence study has been submitted for the 250 mg strength.  
The absence of bioequivalence studies with the 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg, 140 mg and 180 mg capsules is 
considered acceptable for the following reasons: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the pharmacokinetics of temozolomide is linear in the therapeutic dose range  
the different strengths are produced using the same process and by the same manufacturer  
the qualitative composition is the same for the different strengths  
the ratio between the amounts of active substance and excipients is the same for the capsules with 
strength between 20 mg to 250 mg. The 5 mg strength is not dose proportional but the capsule has 
the  same  quantitative  composition  of  excipients  to  those  of  the  100  mg  strength,  only  using  a 
higher  amount  of  lactose  as  additional  filler.  This  was  considered  acceptable,  given  that  the 
excipients were not expected to have any influence on the disposition of the active substance and 
that  rapid  dissolution  was  seen  with  the  medicinal  product.  The  formulation  difference  i.e.  an 
increased amount of lactose filler is not expected to have any influence on the disposition of the 
active substance.  
the in vitro dissolution profile is similar for the different capsule strengths.  
Lactose  is  derived  from  animals  for  which  satisfactory  BSE  statement  has  been  provided  in 
conformance with the Note for Guidance EMEA/410/01 rev 2.  
The  gelatine  of  the  hard  capsule  shells  is  derived  from  bovine  raw  material.  Corresponding 
certificates  of  suitability  from  the  suppliers  proving  compliance  with  the  current  European 
Pharmaceutical TSE regulations were presented. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Temozolomide  5mg/20mg/100mg/140mg/180mg/250mg  Capsules  are  manufactured  by  using 
conventional  manufacturing  techniques  with  dry  mixing.  The  different  steps  are:  sifting,  mixing, 
blending, encapsulation and packaging.  
. 
Adequate  in-process  controls  have  been  set  up  and  a  detailed  description  along  with  a  process  flow 
scheme  have  been  provided.  The  validation  results  presented  on  two  industrial  batches  of  each 
strength  show  that  the  capsules  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly  according  to  the  agreed  finished 
product specification which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
•  Product Specification  
The  product  release  and  shelf-life  specifications  include  tests  for  description,  identification  (HPLC, 
UV),  average  net  content,  uniformity  of  dosage  units,  dissolution  (UV-VIS  spectrophotometer), 
chromatographic purity, assay (95-105%, HPLC) and microbial limits test (Ph.Eur).  
The analytical methods have been adequately described and validated including:  
- the in-house analytical test methods for the description, identification, dissolution, chromatographic 
purity, assay,  
© EMA 2010 
 7/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  and  the  Ph  Eur  general  monographs  for  the  average  net  content,  uniformity  of  dosage  units  and 
microbial limit test. 
The comparative impurities profile was performed between Temozolomide Hospira capsules and the 
reference  medicinal  product  marketed  by  Schering-Plough  Europe,  Belgium.  Impurity  profile  was 
found to be similar as no additional impurities were detected in the generic medicinal product.  
Batches  analysis  data  was  provided  on  two  production  scale  batches  of  each  strength,  made  using 
different  batches  of  the  active  substance.  Batches  met  the  proposed  specification  limits.  Results 
showed  that  capsules  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly  according  to  the  finished  product 
specifications.  
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  on  the  product  has  been  provided  for  two  validation  batches  per  strength  of  the 
medicinal  product  manufactured  at  the  proposed  manufacturing  site,  stored  under  long  term 
(25°C/60% RH, 6 months) and accelerated (40°C/75% RH,6 months) ICH conditions.  
The  parameters  tested  during  stability  were:  description,  dissolution,  related  substance,  assay  and 
microbial  limit  test.  Test  methods  used  were  the  same  as  those  proposed  for  release  testing.  The 
packaging materials used are the same as those proposed for commercial manufacturing. 
Temozolomide  Hospira  capsules  have  also  been  placed  under  stability  in  polypropylene  containers 
(bulk pack) at 25°C/ 60%RH (6 months). The results showed no significant change in the parameters 
tested and remained within the proposed specification. 
In-use stability study has been performed for Temozolomide Capsules at 25± 2°C and 60 ± 5% RH for 
4 weeks when packed in amber glass bottles and HDPE bottles. Based on the data, it was concluded 
that the product is chemically and physically stable during in use stability study in both  packaging. 
Photostability testing was performed in accordance with the recommendations of ICH guideline Q1B 
on  the  medicinal  product  outside  and  inside  the  primary  package  (amber  glass  bottles  and  HDPE 
bottles).  No  significant  change  was  observed;  this  shows  that  the  product  can  be  considered  stable 
against light when kept in the original container.  
Based on the stability data provided, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the 
SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and medicinal product 
has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. At the 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. 
2.3 
Non-Clinical aspects   
There  were  no  detailed  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  study  reports 
submitted by the applicant. The non-clinical studies refer to 64 publications from 1984 to 2008.  The 
applicant submitted a justification why no additional studies are required. 
Pharmacology 
A review of the literature was submitted which described the pharmacologic aspects of temozolomide. 
© EMA 2010 
 8/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Based  on  the  literature  review,  Temozolomide  is  a  prodrug,  one  of  a  series  of  imidazotetrazinone 
derivatives. Temozolomide is a  monofunctional alkylating agent that readily crosses the  blood-brain 
barrier, chemically related to dacarbazine and is the 3-methyl derivative of the experimental anticancer 
drug,  mitozolomide.  Unlike  dacarbazine,  temozolomide  does  not  require  hepatic  metabolism  to  the 
intermediate species MTIC but spontaneously hydrolyzes to MTIC above pH 7. MTIC degrades to a 
highly reactive cation that methylates guanines in DNA at the O6 position, causing base pair mismatch. 
Unsuccessful cycles of mismatch repair eventually lead to breaks and permanent nicks in the daughter 
strand preventing mitotic division and the cell undergoes apoptosis. 
Temozolomide  has  demonstrated  antitumour  activity  in  vitro  against  a  variety  of  malignancies; 
including  glioma,  metastatic  melanoma,  and  other  difficult-to  treat  cancers.  Overall  the  toxicity  of 
TMZ on a range of human and murine tumour cell-lines showed a wide variation. In human-derived 
D384 astrocytoma cell lines, temozolomide significantly reduced the surviving fraction of cells when 
administered once every 24 hours for 4 days compared with a single 24-hour exposure. In addition, a 
24-hour  exposure  to  temozolomide  10  μmol/L  enhanced  the  cytotoxicity  of  fractionally  irradiated 
D384  astrocytoma  cells  but  not  U251  glioblastoma  cells.  A  96-hour  exposure  to  temozolomide  10 
μmol/L  achieved  optimal  cytotoxicity  of  fractionally  irradiated  D384  cells  compared  with  radiation 
treatment alone. No such enhancement of cytotoxicity was found for U251 cells. 
The pharmacology of temozolomide  in vivo has been studied in two animal models (rat and mouse) 
using  different  mode  of  administration.    As  a  single  subcutaneous  injection,  temozolomide  (160 
mg/kg)  increased  survival  time  1.51-fold  in  mice  with  an  implanted  subcutaneous  TLX5  lymphoma 
compared  with  untreated  controls.  A    smaller  daily  dose  Temozolomide  over  a  5-day  period  (40 
mg/kg/day) increased the survival time in mice 1.81-fold compared with untreated controls. 
Temozolomide (100 mg/kg qdx5 i.p., n = 13) treatment of high-grade nestin tv-a gliomas provided a 
14-day growth delay compared with vehicle controls. 
Intraperitoneal  temozolomide  showed  growth  delays  against  a  panel  of  CNS  tumor  xenografts  in 
athymic  nude  mice.  The  xenografts,  which  were  implanted  either  subcutaneously  or  intracranially, 
were derived from ependymomas, medullablastomas and childhood and adult high-grade gliomas. A 
growth delay was defined as the difference between the median time for tumors in treated and control 
animals to reach five times the volume recorded at treatment initiation.  
A  5-day,  intraperitoneal  regimen  of  temozolomide  (411  mg/m2/day)  caused  growth  delays  ranging 
between 40.8 days in adult anaplastic astrocytoma [D-54MG] to >120 days in childhood glioblastoma 
multiforme  [D-456  MG]  subcutaneous  xenografts.  This  regimen  of  temozolomide  produced  1.8-  to 
7.5-fold  and  4.7-  to  19-fold  greater  tumor  growth  delays  than  intraperitoneal  procarbazine  (700 
mg/m2/day for 5 days) and carmustine (100 mg/m2 for 1 day), respectively. In mice with intracranial 
xenografts, temozolomide (411 mg/m2/day for 5 days) increased median survival times 1.7- to 13.9-
fold.  
Some studies showed that temozolomide would have potential synergistic effects with other cytotoxic 
drugs  such  as  O6-Benzylguanine,  radiotherapy,  cisplatin, 
topotecan,  3-aminobenzamine  or 
chloroethylnitrosoureas. 
Metronomic Chemotherapy 
The  applicant  submitted  a  literature  review  showing  that  metronomic  (protracted  low-dose) 
temozolomide treatment can inhibit angiogenesis in both chorioallantoic membrane and HUVEC cell 
based  Matrigel  assays.  Interestingly  comparing  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  (total  clearance, 
volume  of  distribution,  and  tumour  plasma  accumulation)  between  metronomic  and  conventional 
temozolomide dosing  in xenografted athymic rats treated with either 18-mg/kg/day temozolomide for 
5  days  or  3.23-mg/kg/day  temozolomide  for  28  days,  were  quite  similar  consistent  with  the  linear 
pharmacokinetic properties of temozolomide.  
Pharmacokinetics 
© EMA 2010 
 9/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  were  no  pharmacokinetic  study  reports  submitted  as  part  of  the  application.  A  review  of  the 
literature was submitted which described the pharmacokinetic aspects of temozolomide.  
Temozolomide  is  rapidly  and  completely  absorbed  after  intraperitorneal  (i.p)  and  oral  (p.o) 
administration  with  a  maximum  plasma  concentration  achieved  within  0.5  h.  The  maximum  plasma 
concentration obtained in pre-clinical studies from i.p. administration (25.84 mg/liter) was greater than 
that  seen  when  temozolomide  was  given  p.o.  (19.64  mg/liter),  although  the  p.o.  bioavailability  was 
good (0.98). Temozolomide is not directly active but is spontaneously hydrolyzed at physiologic pH to 
the active species, 3-methyl-(triazen-1-yl)imidazole-4-carboxamide (MTIC) and to temozolomide acid 
metabolite. MTIC is further hydrolyzed to 5-amino-imidazole-4-carboxamide (AIC) which is known 
to  be  an  intermediate  in  purine  and  nucleic  acid  biosynthesis  and  to  methylhydrazine,  which  is 
believed to be the active alkylating species.  
Tissue  distribution  was  assessed  in  rats  in  two  studies.  14C-TMZ  was  extensively  distributed  to  all 
tissues including into the brain. Penetration of temozolomide into the CNS studied in rats and rhesus 
monkeys showed that the levels of drug in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid are approximately 30% to 
40% of the plasma concentration. The metabolite MTIC, however, does not effectively penetrate the 
CNS.  Concentrations  in  brain  and  testes  appeared  to  be  highest  at  1  hour  postdose  then  decreased 
slowly;  higher  levels  of  radioactivity  remained  in  the  kidneys,  liver,  large  and  small  intestinal  wall, 
salivary gland and testes. Gender differences in tissue concentrations were not identified. 
Metabolic  studies  performed  in  mouse,  rat,  dog  and  human,  showed  comparable  metabolism  across 
species,  and  showed  minimal  renal  excretion  of  the  parent  compound  (5-6%),  and  negligible 
metabolism  of  temozolomide  to  temozolomide  acid  (TMA)  (1  to  2%).  Cytochrome  P450  enzymes 
play  only  a  minor  role  in  the  metabolism  of  TMZ  and  MTIC.  Relative  to  the  AUC  of  TMZ,  the 
exposure to MTIC and AIC is 2.4% and 23%, respectively. About 38% of the administered TMZ total 
radioactive  dose  is  recovered  over  7  days;  37.7%  in  urine  and  0.8%  in  faeces.  The  majority  of  the 
recovery  of  radioactivity  in  urine  is  as  unchanged  TMZ  (5.6%),  AIC  (12%),  temozolomide  acid 
metabolite (2.3%), and unidentified polar metabolite(s) (17%). Overall clearance of TMZ is about 5.5 
L/hr/m2. 
Following intravenous or oral administration in rats, temozolomide was primarily eliminated renally 
(75-85% of the dose) as either unchanged drug, a carboxylic acid analogue, AIC and a highly polar 
unidentified peak. Biliary excretion was minimal (1.4-1.6%). In mice, the major route of excretion of 
14C-TMZ was also renal. A metabolite identified as the 8-carboxylic acid derivative of temozolomide 
was observed in mice but not in humans. 
Toxicology 
A  review  of  the  literature  was  submitted  which  described  the  toxicology  aspects  of  temozolomide. 
There were no toxicology studies submitted as part of the application. 
Single dose toxicity studies were performed in mice, rats, and Beagle dogs. The maximum non-lethal 
dose was 500 mg/m² (oral, i.p.) in mice, 750 (oral) and 1000 mg/m² (i.p.) in rats and 200 (males)-1500 
mg/m² (females) in dogs.  
Repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  of  up  to  6-months  duration  were  conducted  using 
dosing regimens consisting of a 5-day treatment period followed by a 23-day period without treatment, 
referred to as a cycle. In rats, doses of 50 mg/m²/day were generally well tolerated up to 3 cycles and 
in  dogs  up  to  6  cycles.  Non-clinical  studies  have  shown  the  haematopoietic  and  lymphoreticular 
systems, gastrointestinal tract and testes to be the target sites of temozolomide. Except for effects on 
testes, there was a tendency to recovery during the no treatment period. In addition, in rats, toxicity to 
the  mammary  gland,  the  thyroid  gland  and  the  ocular  system  was  evident.  Retinal  degeneration 
appears only at very high toxic and fatal doses. Neoplastic changes were noted at 125 mg/m²/day in a 
6-cycle study and in female rats, tumours were evident at all doses, starting from a cumulative dose of 
750 mg/m². In a 3-cycle study, masses were palpable already on day 62 at a dose of 200 mg/m²/day. 
At lethal doses in the toxicity studies there were signs of potential CNS effects, such as tremors and 
© EMA 2010 
 10/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
prostration (in mice), hypoactivity, hunched posture and partial closure of the eyes (mice and rats) and 
elevated  body  temperature  (dogs).  Clinically  only  nausea  and  vomiting  have  been  observed  as 
potential  CNS  effects.  No  cardiovascular  effects  have  been  seen.  There  were  no  renal  changes 
attributed to treatment with temozolomide.  
The results observed in the pharmacological-toxicological studies indicate that rats and dogs are more 
sensitive  to  toxic  effects  of  temozolomide.  The  therapeutic  dose  of  200mg/m2  used  and  tolerated  in 
humans is already within the lethal dose range for animals.  
In vitro, temozolomide was found to be mutagenic using the Ames Assay for bacterial mutagenicity 
and  a  human  peripheral  blood  lymphocyte  assay.  In  vivo,  the  mutagenic  potential  of  temozolomide 
was compared to that of cyclophosphamide in mice. The 1-day cyclophosphamide treatment increased 
the  mutational  load  in  bone  marrow  2-fold  over  the  control,  whereas  the  temozolomide  regimen 
resulted in a 22-fold increase over control.  
Repeat dose toxicity studies show that TMZ has a carcinogenic potential, which could be expected of 
this kind of compound. Rats appear to be particularly sensitive to oncogenic effects of TMZ, with the 
occurrence of the first tumours within three months of initiating dosing. With 6 cycles of treatment at 
25, 50, and 125 mg/m2 (about 1/8 to 1/2 the maximum recommended daily human dose), mammary 
carcinomas  were  observed  at  all  doses  (and  even  after  a  dose  of  200mg/m2  on  5  consecutive  days 
every  28  days  for  3  cycles)  and  fibrosarcomas  of  the  heart,  eye,  seminal  vesicles,  salivary  glands, 
abdominal cavity, uterus, and prostate; carcinoma of the seminal vesicles, schwannoma of the heart, 
optic nerve, and harderian gland; and adenomas of the skin, lung, pituitary, and thyroid were observed 
at the high dose.  
The literature review of reproductive and development toxicity studies of temozolomide comprised of 
a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats (three cycles of dosing for males, two cycles 
for  females),  an  embryo-fetal  development  study  in  rabbits  (dosing  on  gestation  Days  8-12),  and  a 
study of effects on pre-and post-natal development (including maternal function) in rabbits (two cycles 
of dosing).  
Effects  such  as  increased  postimplantation  loss  and  reduced  foetal  weight  were  reported  in  rat  and 
rabbit embryo-fetal developmental studies, at doses lower (150mg/m2) than the recommended clinical 
doses.  Malformations,  including  various  skeletal  anomalies  of  the  head,  axial  skeleton,  tail,  and 
extremities  were  observed.  In  the  pre-  and  post-natal  development  study,  decreased  survival  rate  of 
pups  was  reported  as  well  as  developmental  delays  at  doses  ≥75  mg/m2.  While  specific  studies  on 
excretion  of  Temozolomide  in  milk  have  not  been  conducted  distribution  studies  indicate  that  a 
possible  effect  of  exposure  to  Temozolomide  through  milk  in  addition  to  exposure  via  the  placenta 
cannot  be  ruled  out.  Although  no  effects  on  copulation  or  fertility  were  evident  in  the  fertility  and 
early  embryonic  development  study  in  rats,  effects  on  the  testis  were  observed  in  repeated  dose 
toxicity studies in rats (≥50 mg/m2) and dogs (≥125 mg/m2) and no recovery was observed.  Thus an 
effect of temozolomide on male fertility cannot be ruled out.  
There  are  no  preclinical  studies  submitted  in  the  scientific  literature  regarding  the  local  tolerance  of 
temozolomide. 
The impurity profile of Temozolomide Hospira 5mg, 20mg, 100mg, 140mg, 180mg, 250mg Capsules 
manufactured as per their final formula was compared with the impurity profile of reference product 
Temodal  5mg,  20mg,  100mg,  140mg/180mg/250mg  Capsules  and  was  found  to  be  similar  as  no 
additional impurities were detected. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
An ERA report was not submitted with this marketing authorization application.  
The applicant has applied for an exemption of the Environmental risk Assessment based on the fact 
that products containing temozolomide as active substance have been authorised in the EU for more 
© EMA 2010 
 11/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
than 10 years and that the possible risks for environment arising from use, storage and disposal of the 
medicinal product are covered by the instructions/ measures that are included in Summary of Product 
Characteristics. 
Discussion on Non-Clinical aspects 
The  non-clinical  overview  presented  by  the  Applicant  provided  an  adequate  overview  of  the 
pharmacological,  pharmacokinetic  and  toxicological  aspects  of  temozolomide.  There  were  no  major 
issues raised during the assessment from a non-clinical point of view. 
The pharmacology of temozolomide has been widely investigated, as reflected in the review submitted 
by the Applicant.  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  temozolomide  seem  generally  well  characterised.    The  pharmacokinetic 
profile of temozolomide was investigated in rats, mice, and dogs. 
The  impurity  profile  of  the  generic  formulation  has  been  described  as  the  same  of  the  reference 
product.  All  the  excipients  present  in  Temozolomide  Capsules  are  widely  used  in  pharmaceutical 
products and are well characterised.  
An  ERA  report  was  not  submitted  with  this  marketing  authorization  application.  Its  absence  is 
justified  since  the  submission  refers  to  a  generic  medicinal  product  with  similar  chemical 
structure, formulation, known pharmacological properties and indications for use as the reference 
product Temodal. Therefore, it is agreed that this additional medicinal product will not change the 
overall use pattern of the existing market.  
There have been no new findings which require amendments of the safety and efficacy evaluation or 
changes in SPC and PL. 
2.4 
Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The  applicant  has  provided  an  updated  review  of  the  clinical  use  of  temozolomide  for  the  proposed 
indications with 49 publications from 1987 to 2007. 
There were no detailed study reports from clinical trials submitted by the applicant. The application 
was submitted in accordance with Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, where the applicant was not 
required to provide the results of pre-clinical tests and of clinical trials as the medicinal product is a 
generic  of  a  reference  medicinal  product  which  is  authorised  for  6/10  years  in  a  MS  or  in  the 
Community. 
Bio-equivalence exemption 
According to section 5.3 of the guideline “Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability 
and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98”, when a new application concerns several strengths 
of  the  active  substance  a  bioequivalence  study  investigating  only  one  strength  may  be  acceptable. 
Amongst other conditions, the following should be fulfilled 
• 
• 
The qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same; 
The ratio between amounts of active substance and excipients is the same, or, in the case of 
preparations containing a low concentration of the active substance (less than 5%), the ratio 
between the amounts of excipients is similar. 
Therefore,  the  strengths  of  20,  100,  140  and  180  mg,  which  are  compositionally  dose-proportional, 
were requested to be waived from the 250 mg strength. 
Since  the  qualitative  composition  of  the  5  mg  strength  is  proportional  to  all  other  strengths,  the 
manufacturing  process  of  the  5mg  and  250mg  capsules  is  similar,  the  dissolution  profile  is  similar 
© EMA 2010 
 12/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
under  identical  conditions,  and  temozolomide  demonstrates  linear  pharmacokinetics  with  the  area 
under the concentration time curve (AUC) increasing in proportion to the dose, the 5mg strength was 
also requested to be waived from the 250mg strength. 
A biowaver was supported for the 5 mg on the basis of bridging from the 100 mg formulation, on the 
ground that these formulations are essentially the same except from the amount of lactose filler, which 
is not expected to have any influence on the absorption and disposition of the active substance. 
For further information see the Quality part of this report. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study including the 250 mg 
strength (Study 141-06). 
The  application  contains  adequate  clinical  data  from  the  review  of  the  publication  literature  for  the 
proposed indications: 
•  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  newly-diagnosed  glioblastoma  multiforme  concomitantly  with 
radiotherapy (RT) and subsequently as monotherapy treatment.  
•  treatment of children from the age of three years, adolescents and adult patients with malignant 
glioma,  such  as  glioblastoma  multiforme  or  anaplastic  astrocytoma,  showing  recurrence  or 
progression after standard therapy. 
Pharmacodynamics 
A  review  of  the  literature  was  submitted  which  described  the  clinical  pharmacodynamic  aspects  of 
temozolomide. 
There were no clinical pharmacodynamic study reports submitted as part of the application. 
Pharmacokinetics  
A  review  of  the  literature  was  submitted  which  described  the  pharmacokinetic  aspects  of 
temozolomide.  There  were  no  clinical  pharmacokinetic  study  reports  submitted  as  part  of  the 
application. 
Temozolomide is not directly active but undergoes rapid nonenzymatic conversion at physiologic pH 
to the reactive compound 3-methyl-(triazen-1-yl) imidazole-4-carboxamide (MTIC).  
Absorption 
After  oral  administration  to  adult  patients,  temozolomide  is  rapidly  and  completely  absorbed,  with 
peak concentrations reached as early as 20 minutes post-administration (mean time between 0.5 and 
1.5 hours). Administration of temozolomide with food resulted in a 32 % decrease in Cmax and a 9 % 
decrease  in  AUC.  As  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  the  change  in  Cmax  is  clinically  significant, 
temozolomide should be administered without food. 
Distribution 
Temozolomide  demonstrates  low  protein  binding  (10  %  to  20  %).  The  mean  apparent  volume  of 
distribution is 0.4 L/kg. PET studies in humans and preclinical data suggest that temozolomide crosses 
the blood-brain barrier rapidly and is present in the CSF.  
Metabolism 
Temozolomide is spontaneously hydrolyzed at physiologic pH primarily to the active species MTIC. 
MTIC is spontaneously hydrolyzed to 5-amino-imidazole-4-carboxamide (AIC), a known intermediate 
in  purine  and  nucleic  acid  biosynthesis,  and  to  methylhydrazine,  which  is  believed  to  be  the  active 
© EMA 2010 
 13/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
alkylating  species.  Cytochrome  P450  enzymes  play  only  a  minor  role  in  the  metabolism  of 
temozolomide and MTIC. 
Elimination 
The half-life (t1/2) in plasma is approximately 1.8 hours. The major route of 14C elimination is renal. 
Following oral administration, approximately 5 % to 10 % of the dose is recovered unchanged in the 
urine  over  24  hours,  and  the  remainder  excreted  as  temozolomide  acid,  5-aminoimidazole-4- 
carboxamide (AIC) or unidentified polar metabolites. Plasma concentrations increase in a dose-related 
manner. Plasma clearance, volume of distribution and half-life are independent of dose. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
There were no clinical or safety studies submitted as part of the application. 
Based  on  the  literature  review,  the  therapeutic  efficacy  of  temozolomide  in  treating  refractory 
malignant infiltrative brain tumours  has been studied in 942 adult patients in 15 clinical trials and in 
230 children and adolescents in 4 clinical trials.  The therapeutic efficacy of temozolomide in treating 
newly  diagnosed  glioblastomas  and  gliomas  has  been  studied  in  1975  adult  patients  in  12  clinical 
trails, in 64 children and adolescents in 2 clinical trials and in 183 elderly patients in 3 clinical trials. 
The oral temozolomide dosage regimen used in these trials was mainly 150 or 200 mg/m2/day for 5 
consecutive days, repeated every 4 weeks and showed beside an efficient response a good tolerability 
across the studies and population subgroups. In patients with recurrent brain tumours, a median PFS in 
the order of 4 to 7 months  and a median OS of 7 to 17 months have been reported after temozolomide 
treatment. Temozolomide treatment in patients with newly diagnosed GBM revealed a median PFS in 
the order of 4 to 9 months and a median OS of 6 to 19 months respectively. While adult studies with 
larger  cohorts  have  confirmed  a  high  response  to  temozolomide  for  both  low-grade  and  high-grade 
AA and other gliomas, the overall paediatric data suggested that temozolomide´s activity may be less 
robust in children.  
An EORTC/NCIC trial with 573 patients, performed by Stupp et al. (2005), provided strong support 
for the use of temozolomide in conjunction with RT in the treatment of newly diagnosed GBM. More 
than 90 % of patients in both arms completed RT, and 88 % of those in the RT plus temozolomide arm 
completed in-tended CT. Temozolomide was discontinued in 12 % of patients because of toxicity (5 
%), tumour progression (4 %), or other reasons (3 %). Analysis of the data revealed a median survival 
of  12.1  months  for  the  patients  with  RT  alone  and  14.6  months  for  patients  receiving  combined 
therapy  (p  <  0.001).  Two-year  survival  was  10.4  %  for  patients  with  RT  alone  versus  a  remarkable 
26.5 % for patients receiving combined therapy (p < 0.001). 
In clinical trials, adverse events associated with temozolomide toxicity were graded according to the 
WHO and to the CTC of the National Cancer Institute. The most common adverse events associated 
with temozolomide were drug class effects that stem from its cytotoxic mechanism of action. Sporadic 
cases of serious adverse reactions that might be due to temozolomide have also been published.  
Myelosuppression  was  the  major  dose-limiting  toxicity  in  patients  treated  with  temozolomide  as 
monotherapy and/or concomitant with RT. It was predictable but not cumulative. The most commonly 
observed  side  effects  associated  with  temozolomide  standard  therapy  were  mainly  mild-to-moderate 
nausea, vomiting, constipation, anorexia, headache and fatigue. 
Tolerance at doses up to 300 mg/m2/day temozolomide was good. Eight case reports of adverse events 
during  oral  use  of  temozolomide  have  been  identified  in  the  literature.  These  included  the 
development  of  secondary,  or  treatment-related,  myelodysplasia  and  acute  myelogenous  leukaemia, 
temozolomide-associated  pneumonitis,  delirium 
interaction  between 
temozolomide  and  the  antiepileptic  drug  Dilantin)  as  well  as  one  fatal  reaction  (reactivation  of 
hepatitis B).  
(likely  caused  by  an 
© EMA 2010 
 14/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Single-dose  cross-over  bioequivalence  study  with  the  250  mg  capsule  in  adult,  cancer 
patients under fasting conditions 
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN (141-06) 
The  study  was  an  open  label,  multicenter,  balanced,  randomised,  two-period,  two-treatment,  two 
sequence,  single  dose,  crossover  and  comparative  oral  bioavailability  study  undertaken  of  two 
formulations of Temozolomide Capsules 250 mg in adult, male and/or female human patients under 
fasting conditions.  
The study was conducted on day 1 and day 2 of a 5-days treatment cycle with temozolomide. Some 
patients  were  already  on  temozolomide  treatment,  and  for  these  patients  the  study  drug  was 
administered after a drug free interval of 23 days. 
After  an  overnight  fast  one  capsule  containing  250  mg  of  temozolomide  was  administered  together 
with 240 ml of water. Water was not allowed for one hour before drug administration until one hour 
post-dose (except for the 240 ml). Fasting was continued for two hours post-dose when a standardised 
lunch was served. Blood samples were collected pre-dose and at 0.16, 0.25, 0.33, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.25, 
1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 4.0, 6.0, 8.0 and 10.0 hours post-dose in each period. The two periods were separated 
by a wash-out period of about 24-hours.  
Antiemetics,  antacids,  NSAIDs,  antibiotics,  anticonvulsants  and  corticosteriods  were  to  be  allowed 
during  the  course  of  the  trial.  Co-adminstration  of  sodium  valproate  was  not  to  be  allowed  as 
administration  of  valproic  acid  decreases  the  clearance  of  temozolomide.  If  drug  therapy  other  than 
that specified in the protocol was required prior to or during the study, decisions was to be taken by 
the  pharmacology  and 
the 
pharmacokinetics  of  the  non-study  medication,  the  likelihood  of  an  interaction  and  the  time  and 
duration of administration of the non-study drug. 
to  continue  or  discontinue 
the  patient  based  on 
investigator 
The study was complying with GCP, as claimed by the applicant. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS 
Test product: Temozolomide 250 mg capsules manufactured by Intas Pharmaceutical Ltd, India, Batch 
No.  H3026,  Expiry  date:  April  2009.has  been  compared  to  Reference  product  1:  Temodal  250  mg, 
hard capsules by Schering-Plough Ltd, Batch No. 115637501, Expiry date: April 2008.  
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
A total of 37 adult male (n=24) and female (n=13) patients aged 18-65 years with a BMI within the 
range 17-28 kg/m2 were enrolled and dosed in the study (1-15 patients per study site). Patients with 
newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme on monotherapy phase with temozolomide and patients of 
recurrent or progressive malignant glioma, previously treated with chemotherapy were included. 
A  total  of  34  patients  completed  both  periods  of  the  study.  Subject  No.  B04  was  withdrawn  due  to 
non-compliance, subject No. B07 was withdrawn due to emesis after dose administration in period II 
and subject No. B12 discontinued on his own record. 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
Temozolomide  and  MTIC  in  plasma  were  determined  using  a  validated  LC-MS/MS  method  at 
Lambda  Therapeutic  Research  Ltd  between  9  July  2007  and  22  March  2008  for  temozolomide  and 
between 13 July 2007 and 26 March 2008 for MTIC. 
© EMA 2010 
 15/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According to the protocol, immediately after sampling the study samples were to be placed on ice and 
centrifuged at 4 ºC before freezing and tranportation to the analytical faciclity. After thawing, 50 μl of 
5% formic acid was added whereafter the samples were further processed and analysed. 
Temozolomide pre-validation data:  
Sample  pre-treatment  involved  liquid-liquid  extraction.  5-hydroxymethyl  tolterodine  was  used  as 
internal standard (IS). Selectivity was shown employing eight independent sources of human plasma. 
No significant interference at the retention times for temozolomide or IS was observed. Sensitivity at 
the limit of quantification, 99.224 ng/ml was shown. Linearity was demonstrated within the calibration 
range  99.224-20036.697  ng/ml.  Satisfactory  between-  and  within-run  accuracy  and  precision  was 
shown  for  low,  medium  and  high  QC  sample  concentrations.  Satisfactory  accuracy  and  precision  in 
presence of co-administered drugs (aspirin, paracetamol, ibuprofen and ranitidine) was also shown for 
low QC samples. Absolute recovery was in the range 61-63% for temozolomide and about 49% for IS. 
Dilution integrity was demonstrated for a dilution factor of 10. Stability in plasma was demonstrated 
for 73 h in autosampler, for 6 h at 4 ºC on bench top, for 45 days at -65±10 ºC and over three freeze-
thaw cycles. 
MTIC pre-validation data:  
Sample  pre-treatment  involved  a  protein  precipitation  method.  Sumatriptane  was  used  as  IS. 
Selectivity  was  shown  employing  eight  independent  sources  of  human  plasma.  No  significant 
interference  at  the  retention  times  for  MTIC  or  IS  was  observed.  Sensitivity  at  the  limit  of 
quantification,  2.996 ng/ml  was  shown.  Linearity  was  demonstrated  within  the  calibration  range 
2.996-605.668  ng/ml.  Satisfactory  between-  and  within-run  accuracy  and  precision  was  shown  for 
low, medium and high QC sample concentrations. Satisfactory accuracy and precision in presence of 
co-administered  drugs  (aspirin,  paracetamol,  ibuprofen  and  ranitidine)  was  also  shown  for  low  QC 
samples.  Absolute  recovery  was  in  the  range  71-84%  for  MTIC  and  about  76%  for  IS.  Dilution 
integrity was demonstrated for a dilution factor of 10. Stability in plasma was demonstrated for 8 h in 
autosampler, for 2 h at 4 ºC on bench top, for 63 days at -65±10 ºC and over three freeze-thaw cycles. 
Within-study validation: 
Satisfactory method performance during study sample analysis was demonstrated. Appropriate batch 
acceptance criteria were used. Repeated analysis was adequately justified. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The primary pharmacokinetic parameters were Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf. Secondary parameters 
were  Tmax,  λ,  t½  and  residual  area.  Conventional  non-compartmental  methods  were  used  to 
determine the pharmacokinetic parametrs. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was carried out by employing PROC MIXED of SAS Release 9.1.3 
(SAS  Institute  Inc.,  USA)  for  the  un-transformed  and  ln-transformed  pharmacokinetic  parameters 
Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ for temozolomide and MTIC. 
The  ANOVA  model  included  Sequence,  Formulation  and  Period  as  fixed  effects  and  Patient 
(Sequence) as a random effect. Sequence effect was tested using Patient (Sequence) as error term. The 
ANOVA model was also planned to include terms for Centre, Sequence, Sequence by Centre, Patient 
(Within Sequence by centre), Treatment, Treatment by Centre and Period (Within Centre). However, 
the  Centre  effect  was  removed  from  the  ANOVA  model  as  there  were  two  centres  having only one 
patient. 
Two one-sided tests for bioequivalence and 90% confidence interval for both the un-transformed and 
ln-transformed  ratios  of  the  least  squares  mean  between  the  formulations  were  calculated  for 
temozolomide  and  MTIC.  Ratio  of  least  squares  means  of  test  and  reference  formulation  was 
© EMA 2010 
 16/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
computed  for  un-transformed  and  ln-transformed  pharmacokinetic  parameters  Cmax,  AUC0-t  and 
AUC0-∞ for temozolomide and MTIC. 
Bioequivalence was concluded if the 90% confidence interval for Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf for 
temozolomide and MTIC fell within the acceptance range of 80-125%. 
• 
Results 
The results from the bioequivalence study is found in table 1 (temozolomide) and table 2 (MTIC) 
below. 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, 
tmax median, range) for Temozolomide (n=34). 
Treatment 
Test 
Reference 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
29579.442 ± 
6156.2288 
28910.431 ± 
6660.4445 
103.7 
(99.81-107.71) 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
31148.510 ± 
6197.1265 
29881.148 ± 
6823.5253 
105.7 
(101.53-110.03) 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
9469.983 ± 
3869.4064 
10227.851 ± 
4359.4082 
96.1 
(85.71-107.67) 
tmax 
h 
2.000 
(0.330-6.000) 
1.125 
(0.250-6.000) 
- 
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours 
AUC0-∞   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity 
Cmax  
tmax 
*ln-transformed values  
maximum plasma concentration 
time for maximum plasma concentration 
A statistical significant period effect was found for ln-transformed Cmax, for un-transformed and ln-
transformed AUC0-t and for un-transformed AUC0-inf. 
Table 2. Pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax 
median, range) for MTIC (n=34). 
Treatment 
Test 
Reference 
*Ratio (90% 
CI) 
AUC0-t 
xg/ml/h 
1723.862 ± 
728.1800 
1659.682 ± 
623.9332 
103.5 
(99.01-108.41) 
AUC0-∞ 
xg/ml/h 
1812.577 ± 
742.9825 
1725.907 ± 
663.2465 
105.0 
(100.40-109.73) 
Cmax 
xg/ml 
598.965 ± 
402.8656 
660.066 ± 
386.7845 
92.5 
(80.88-105.81) 
tmax 
h 
2.000 
( 0.250-6.000) 
1.250 
(0.250-4.000) 
- 
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours 
AUC0-∞   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity 
Cmax  
tmax 
*ln-transformed values  
maximum plasma concentration 
time for maximum plasma concentration 
The extrapolated AUC was less than 10% in all subjects, except for No. I01 who had an extrapolated 
AUC for both temozolomide and MTIC of about 14% and 26% after administration of the reference 
and test formulation respectively. 
(cid:131)  Conclusions 
Based  on  the  submitted  bioequivalence  study  Temozolomide  Hospira  250  mg  hard  capsules  are 
considered bioequivalent with Temodal  250 mg hard capsules. 
© EMA 2010 
 17/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  results  of  study  141-06  with  the  250  mg  formulation  can  be  extrapolated  to  the  strengths  of 
20 mg,  100  mg,  140  mg  and  180  mg,  according  to  the  conditions  in  Note  for  Guidance  on  the 
Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/1401/98, section 5.3.  
A biowaver was also granted for the 5 mg on the basis of bridging from the 100 mg formulation, on 
the ground that these formulations are essentially the same except from the amount of lactose filler. 
Additional data 
No additional studies were submitted as part of this application. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.   
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131)  PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule for Temozolomide Hospira should follow the PSUR schedule for the 
reference medicinal product, Temodal. 
(cid:131)  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system,  version  5.1  dated  22nd  June  2009    as 
described by the applicant fulfils the legislative requirements and provides adequate evidence that the 
applicant  has  the  services  of  a  qualified  person  responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the 
necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse  reaction  suspected  of  occurring  either  in  the 
Community  or  in  a  third  country.  The  company  must  ensure  that  this  system  is  in  place  and 
functioning before the product is placed on the market 
(cid:131)  Risk Management Plan 
No  description  of  Risk  Management  plan  (RMP)  has  been  provided  by  the  applicant  since  the 
application  concerns  a  medicinal  product  containing  a  known  active  substance  for  which  no  safety 
concern requiring additional risk minimisation activities has been identified. 
The  well  established  active  ingredient  has  been  in  use  for  many  years  and  the  safety  profile  of  the 
products is very well established. 
Routine  pharmacovigilance  activities  according  to  volume  9A/ICH  will  be  undertaken  whilst  the 
product is in the market, including careful review of individual case safety reports, literature review, 
signal  detection  procedures  and  generation  of  the  required  safety  reports.  Specific  risk  minimisation 
activities are not envisaged as the safety aspects of the product are well characterised and therefore a 
Risk Minimisation plan is not required. 
(cid:131)  User consultation 
The user testing of the package leaflet was performed. The criterion for a successful Readability Test 
was fulfilled. The user testing of the package leaflet was judged acceptable. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
© EMA 2010 
 18/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Temozolomide  has  a  well-recognized  efficacy  and  an  acceptable  level  of  safety  in  the  indications 
claimed for Temozolomide Hospira and no additional clinical studies are needed.  
To  support  the  application,  the  Applicant  has  submitted  an  open  label,  multicentre,  balanced, 
randomised,  two  period,  two-treatment,  two-sequence,  single  dose,  crossover  and  comparative  oral 
bioavailability study in adult,  male/female human cancer patients under fasting conditions, with the 
250mg capsule. 
The  bioequivalence  study  in  patients  is  considered  acceptable  since  temozolomide  is  a  cytotoxic 
substance and not suitable for administration in healthy volunteers. A study under fasting conditions is 
adequate  given  that  the  reference  product  should be  administered  without  food.  Bioequivalence  was 
shown for Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf for temozolomide using the conventional acceptance criteria 
of 80-125%. 
A biowaiver was requested for the 20mg, 100 mg, 140 mg and 180 mg strength, which is acceptable 
from a pharmacokinetic point of view since the pharmacokinetics of temozolomide is linear. 
A  biowaiver  was  requested  for  the  5  mg  strength,  which  is  not  dose-proportional  to  the  250  mg 
strength. However, the formulations were considered sufficiently similar to support a biowaver taking 
into account the active substance is a BCS class I active substance. The biowaver was also considered 
acceptable for the 5 mg strength on the basis of bridging from the 100 mg formulation, on the ground 
that these formulations are essentially the same except from the amount of lactose filler, which is not 
expected to have any influence on the absorption and disposition of the active substance. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  Applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements and provides adequate evidence that the Applicant has the services of a qualified person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
The dossier in question refers to a generic product with a well known active substance which has been 
marketed  for  many  years  throughout  the  EU.  The  applicant  considers  no  need  for  additional  risk 
minimisation measures apart from routine pharmacovigilance.  
2.6  Overall conclusions, Benefit/Risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/Risk assessment 
The non-clinical and clinical literature review provides a consistent overview of the pharmacological, 
pharmacokinetic  and  toxicological  aspects  of  temozolomide.  Therefore,  there  were  no  objections  to 
the approval of Temozolomide Hospira 5, 20, 100, 140, 180, 250 mg hard capsules from a non-clinical 
and  clinical  point  of  view.  Temozolomide  Hospira  hard  capsules  should  only  be  prescribed  by 
physicians experienced in the oncological treatment of brain tumours. 
An exemption for the ERA can be given for this product since this generic application has identical 
posology  to  the  originator’s  Medicinal  Product.  The  CHMP  agrees  that  no  changes  in  the 
environmental risks that are not already known for temozolomide are to be anticipated. 
An  RMP  was  considered  not  required  as  there  are  no  safety  concerns  requiring  additional  risk 
minimisation activities with respect to the reference medicinal product. It was considered that routine 
pharmacovigilance according to the Detailed Description of Pharmacovigilance System was sufficient 
for safety monitoring, without the need for additional actions. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information 
© EMA 2010 
 19/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data.  A  Benefit/Risk  balance 
comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
ratio of Temozolomide Hospira in the treatment of: 
- adult patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme concomitantly with radiotherapy (RT) 
and subsequently as monotherapy treatment,  
- and children from the age of three years, adolescents and adult patients with malignant glioma, such 
as  glioblastoma  multiforme  or  anaplastic  astrocytoma,  showing  recurrence  or  progression  after 
standard therapy, 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
© EMA 2010 
 20/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
