SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Temodal. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1st September 2005. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Temodal,  with  the  active  ingredient  temozolomide  (INN),  is  an  alkylating  agent  intended  for  the 
treatment  of  paediatric  and  adult  patients  with  malignant  glioma,  such  as  GBM  or  AA,  showing 
recurrence or progression after standard therapy. In patients 3 years or older, previously untreated with 
chemotherapy,  Temodal  is  administered  at  a  dose  of  200  mg/m²  once  daily  for  5  days  per  28-day 
cycle. In patients previously treated with chemotherapy, the initial dose is 150 mg/m2 once daily, to be 
increased in the second cycle  to 200 mg/m2 daily,  providing the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is 
?1.5 x 109/l and the thrombocyte count is ?100 x 109 /l on Day 1 of the next cycle.  
Temozolomide  is  a  prodrug  and  converts  spontaneously  to  MTIC  which  is  also  the  known  active 
metabolite  of  dacarbazine.  The  main  advantage  of  temozolomide  over  dacarbazine  lies  in  its 
circumvention of hepatic metabolism. 
The incidence of brain tumours ranges from 1-10 cases/100,000 of which primary malignant gliomas 
comprise  over  60%.  The  age-specific  incidence  of  malignant  glioma  increases  from  5/100,000  for 
those aged under 30, to a peak of 20 cases/100,000 at the age of 75. 
Using  standard  multimodality  treatment,  malignant  or  high-grade  gliomas  have  a  median  survival 
approximately in the range 1 – 2 years from initial diagnosis. 
The  primary  therapy  of  GBM  includes  surgery,  radiotherapy  and  chemotherapy.  Complete  surgical 
excision  of  GBM  is  usually  not  feasible  due  to  infiltrative  tumour  growth.  Postoperative  irradiation 
has been demonstrated to significantly prolong survival and is a part of the current standard therapy of 
GBM.  Adjuvant  chemotherapy  with  nitrosourea-based  chemotherapy  has  led  to  a  further  modest 
increase  in  progression-free  and  overall  survival,  but  is  still  controversial  due  to  the  fact  that 
disadvantages such as adverse effects and hospitalisation may not outweigh the usually small survival 
benefit. 
After  primary  therapy  practically  all  patients will present with recurrent disease.  In  this situation no 
standard  therapeutic  approach  can  be  defined  and  the  prognosis  is  poor.  Chemotherapy  is  often 
administered  to  patients  with  good  performance  status,  either  in  addition  to  local  measures  or  in 
patients  who  are  not  amenable  to  local  therapies.  Different  agents  have  been  tested  as  mono-  or 
combination  therapy  in  phase  II  trials  revealing  sometimes  a  relatively  high  fraction  of  responses 
(defined as complete response [CR], partial response [PR] or stable disease [SD]) which are, however, 
in general of short duration. No chemotherapeutic regimen can be considered as efficacious in terms of 
a  proven  survival  benefit  or  proven  palliative  benefit  compared  to  best  supportive  care  or  another 
chemotherapeutic option. 
In progressive/recurrent GBM, the evaluation of efficacy of chemotherapy is difficult. Changes in the 
size and shape of enhancing lesions in MRI scans are difficult to measure, in particular in the presence 
of post-surgical changes. Therefore, PFS based only or mainly on MRI data need to be augmented by 
data demonstrating clinical benefit.  
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The pharmaceutical and chemical documentation and the expert report were comprehensive and well 
presented. Part II of the dossier reflected a good quality of Temodal capsules. 
Composition and product development 
Temodal is presented as a conventional formulation in (hard) gelatine capsules, for oral use. The four 
strengths 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg and 250 mg contain the same excipients but in different proportions.  
All clinical trial formulations were identical to those proposed for marketing. Temodal is presented in 
Type I amber glass bottles with child-resistant polypropylene caps. 
1/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance 
The  synthesis  of  temozolomide  is  a  three-stage  process,  using  4-amino-5-imidazole  carboxamide 
hydrochloride  as  a  basis.  The  synthesis  involves  unusual  risks,  since  an  intermediate  compound  is 
explosive  and  a  reagent  is  extremely  toxic  by  inhalation.  Because  of  these  risks  temozolomide  is 
manufactured  by  a  contract  manufacturer  specialising  in  the  manufacture  of  hazardous  drug 
substances. There are ten potential synthesis impurities 
Temozolomide is slightly soluble in water and acidic aqueous solutions (3.1 mg/ml). It has no protic 
functional group and log KD is approximately 1.3. The identification is a combination of HPLC and 
IR;  the  latter  test  also  ensures  the  correct  polymorphic  form.  Related  substances  are  determined  by 
HPLC.  Some  limits  in  the  drug  substance  specification  are  slightly  above  what  has  actually  been 
found.  However,  even  though  the  doses  used in  the  preclinical safety studies have not exceeded the 
doses to be given in therapy, it is the opinion of the CPMP that these minor differences in the impurity 
profile of a substance that is rather toxic in itself, will not represent a safety concern. 
The proposed specifications are supported by the batch analysis results (n = 22). 
pH,  moisture  and  temperature  affect  the  stability  of  temozolomide.  The  retest  period  for  the  active 
substance is 24 months stored at 2°C to 8 °C, or 12 months if stored at 20 °C to 25 °C. A visual test 
will  be  done  on  each  batch  prior  to  its  use,  as  colour  is  a  sensitive  indicator  of  moisture  mediated 
degradation. 
Excipients 
Stearic acid is manufactured by a process that excludes the possibility of transmission of BSE. Lactose 
and gelatine (present in the capsule shells) are manufactured from raw material solely originating from 
the USA. The risk for BSE transmission of these materials can thus be judged to be negligible.  
The  excipients  are  either  tested  according  to  Ph.Eur./B.P.  where  relevant  or  to  a  harmonised 
NF/Ph.Eur. monograph or according to USP/NF. 
Finished product 
Temodal  is  presented  as  conventional  capsules  containing  a  non-granulated  powder  mixture.  The 
critical process parameters were found to be active substance blending times, lubricant blending times, 
number of lactose dilutions (5-mg strength only) and capsule filler speed. 
The product is being manufactured in a facility that holds the necessary Manufacturing Authorisation 
(see Annex II of the Opinion). 
Identification  of  temozolomide  is  performed  by  two  chromatographic  procedures  (reversed  phase 
HPLC and straight phase TLC) which give a greater assurance of the correct identity. 
Total  degradation  products  are  limited  to  1.0%  at  release.  Dissolution  testing  utilises  the  USP 
acceptance plan (Q=80% in 30 minutes) for stages 1 and 2. Stage 3 has been abandoned. 
Microbial quality will be tested annually. 
The batch analysis results (n=24) confirm satisfactory compliance with specifications and uniformity 
of the product at release. 
The accepted shelf-life is 24 months when stored below 30 °C, as defined in the SPC.  
In summary, the documentation of substances, materials, methods of production as well as the quality 
controls is sufficient to ensure a product of appropriate and consistent quality. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  summary  of  preclinical  documentation  that  was  submitted  provides  a  good  overview  of  the 
design, performance and results of all studies. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Temozolomide  acts  as  an  alkylating  agent  and  this  mechanism  of  action  mainly  entails  a  cytotoxic 
effect on rapidly proliferating cells. In the different species employed for pharmaco-toxicological tests 
this effect is consistent with that observed in humans.  
2/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
In vitro studies 
Temozolomide  was  compared  with  other  alkylating  agents  in  its  mechanism  of  cytotoxicity  in 
connection with the role of guanine O6 alkylation. The conclusion of the study was that temozolomide 
is  a  cytotoxic  agent  the  activity  of  which  is  correlated  with  the  level  of  DNA  repair  protein 
O6-methylguanin-DNA-methyl-transferase (AGAT) in the tumour cell-line. 
The  toxicity  of  temozolomide  on  a  range  of  human  and  murine  tumour  cell-lines  shows  a  wide 
variation.  Cell-lines  with  low  AGAT  levels  such  as  GM892  are  sensitive  while  cell-lines  with  high 
AGAT levels such as Raji, JAR, MAC 16 and A549 are resistant to temozolomide. 
In vivo studies 
The  antitumour  activity  was  tested  in  several  studies  in  mice.  In  the  first  study  it  was  tested  in 
comparison to DTIC (dacarbazine). It was shown that a very similar antitumour activity-profile exists 
in these two alkylating substances. 
In  addition,  temozolomide  showed  its  antitumour  activity  in  5  murine  solid  tumour  models. 
Temozolomide, like DTIC, demonstrates a good antitumour activity, both given intraperitoneally (i.p.) 
and orally. 
General pharmacodynamics 
No specific studies in animal models or alternatively in isolated organs were performed in the field of 
safety  pharmacology  (peripheral  and  central  nervous  system),  despite  the  fact  that  temozolomide 
passes  the  brain  and  that  there  are  signs  of  an  impaired  central  nervous  system.  However,  data  on 
cardiovascular, renal and CNS effects may be evaluated from the toxicology studies.  
In addition cytotoxic effects on bone marrow progenitor cells in vitro were assessed in human primary 
bone  marrow  granulocyte/macrophage  precursor  cells.  The  results  indicate  that  temozolomide  has 
some effects on human bone marrow progenitor cells in vitro at clinically achievable concentrations, 
but may be less myelotoxic than BCNU at equimolar concentrations. 
A separate study was performed to evaluate the effect of temozolomide on gastrointestinal function in 
rats. There was no ulcerogenicity and no effects on intestinal motility. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Studies have been performed in rat, dog and in humans.  
Oral  bioavailability  of  the  drug  was  complete  in  rats  and  dogs  of  both  genders.  Whole  body 
autoradiography data in male rats showed a rapid and extensive distribution of  14C-temozolomide to 
all  tissues.  Metabolic  studies  were  performed  in  mouse,  rat,  dog  and  human.  The  metabolism  is 
comparable in all species. The excretion of 14C-temozolomide was determined in mouse, rat, dog and 
human. The main pathway for excretion was via the kidneys, only small amounts of radioactivity were 
excreted via faeces or as CO2. In humans and animals there is a good oral bioavailability and there is 
neither significant metabolism nor accumulation.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity studies were performed in mice, rats, and Beagle dogs. The maximum non-lethal 
dose was 500 mg/m²  (oral,  i.p.) in mice,  750 (oral)  and 1000 mg/m² (i.p.) in rats and 200 (males) – 
1500 mg/m² (females) in dogs. 
Repeated dose studies 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  of  up  to  6-months  duration  were  conducted  using 
dosing  regimens  consisting  of  a  5-day  treatment  period  followed  by  a  23-day  period  without 
treatment,  referred  to  as  a  cycle.  In  rats,  doses  of  50  mg/m²/day  were  generally  well  tolerated  up  to 
3 cycles  and  in  dogs  up  to  6  cycles.  Target  organs  at  higher  doses  were  the  haematopoietic  and 
lymphoreticular  systems,  gastrointestinal  tract  and  testes.  Except  for  effects  on  testes,  there  was  a 
tendency  to  recovery  during  the  no-treatment  periods.  In  addition,  in  rats,  toxicity  to  the  mammary 
gland, the thyroid gland and the ocular system was evident. Retinal degeneration appears only at very 
high toxic and fatal doses. Neoplastic changes were noted at 125 mg/m²/day in a 6-cycle study and in 
3/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
female  rats,  tumours  were  evident  at  all  doses,  starting  from  a  cumulative  dose  of  750  mg/m².  In  a 
3-cycle study, masses were palpable already on day 62 at a dose of 200 mg/m²/day.  
At lethal doses in the toxicity studies there were signs of potential CNS effects, such as tremors and 
prostration (in mice), hypoactivity, hunched posture and partial closure of the eyes (mice and rats) and 
elevated  body  temperature  (dogs).  Clinically  only  nausea  and  vomiting  have  been  observed  as 
potential CNS effects.  
No  cardiovascular  effects  have  been  seen.  There  were  no  renal  changes  attributed  to  treatment  with 
temozolomide.  
It could have been expected that the toxicological profile observed in the pharmaco-toxicological trials 
would be very similar to or the same as in humans. However, the results show that the rats and dogs 
used in the studies have to be considered more sensitive to toxic effects. The therapeutic dose of  
200  mg/m2  used  and  tolerated  in  humans  is  already  within  the  lethal  range  for  animals.  Therefore, 
patients should be carefully monitored. 
In general, the pattern of toxicity seen with temozolomide, targeted at organs with relatively rapidly 
proliferating  cells,  is  consistent  with  its  mechanism of action and  other alkylating agents  are known 
for similar toxicity. 
Genotoxicity 
Two studies were conducted. A mammalian microsome, reverse mutation assay was conducted. Doses 
up to 2500 µg/plate were tested. Temozolomide caused an increase in the frequency of mutations in all 
strains tested, with or without metabolic activation. 
In the human peripheral blood lymphocyte assay temozolomide was tested with two different donors 
at doses up to 1000 µg/ml dissolved in deionised water. In one of the tests positive results were seen at 
all treatment conditions.  
Temozolomide  was  considered  positive  for  inducing  chromosome  aberrations  in  cultured  human 
lymphocytes with or without metabolic activation. 
Carcinogenicity 
No specific studies have been undertaken and are not required. Repeat dose toxicity studies show that 
temozolomide has a carcinogenic potential, which could be expected of this kind of compound. Rats 
appear  to  be  particularly  sensitive  to  oncogenic  effects  of temozolomide,  with  the  occurrence of the 
first  tumours  within  three  months  of  initiating  dosing.  This  latency  period  is  very  short  even  for  an 
alkylating agent and is comparable to DTIC. 
Reproductive and development toxicity studies 
Two  studies  have  been  conducted,  one  dose  range-finding  developmental  study  in  rats  and  one  in 
rabbits.  In  the  rat  study  doses  up  to  150  mg/m²  were  not  maternally  toxic,  but  resulted  in  in-utero 
deaths of foetuses and growth retardation. 
In the rabbit study a total of 41% of the foetuses had malformations in the dose group of 150 mg/m². 
The no effect level was considered to be 25-50 mg/m². 
Local tolerance 
An  irritation  study  was  conducted  prior  to  the  main  sensitisation  study.  Temozolomide  was 
administered  to  20  albino  guinea  pigs.  A  slight  dermal  reaction  was  observed  in  3  animals. 
Temozolomide was not considered to be a dermal sensitiser. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
An estimate of the maximum environmental concentration resulting from the use of the product was 
developed based on projections of sales and flows to sewer systems. The environmental impact is not 
expected to be significant. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
4/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
In  general  the  Temodal  dossier  was  of  high  quality.  The  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic 
properties of temozolomide in adults and in children 3 years of age or older have been characterised 
adequately in phase I trials, involving a total of 113 patients. 
Three phase II trials for the approved indication have been conducted involving a total of 525 patients 
(ITT Population), of which 412 received temozolomide. 
The clinical trials were performed according to GCP standards and agreed ethical principles. 
a) 
(1) 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
At physiological pH temozolomide undergoes non-enzymatic hydrolysis to MTIC which is considered 
as an active metabolite. MTIC spontaneously degrades to the reactive methyl-diazonium ion and AIC. 
The antineoplastic activity of MTIC is thought to be primarily due to alkylation of DNA at the O6 and 
N7 position of guanine. 
(i) 
Dose finding studies 
DLT  and  MTD  for  temozolomide  were  investigated  in  4  phase  I  trials,  which  included  in  total 
92 patients. The studies followed the conventional phase I design and used the 5 day schedule and a 
total dose range of 500 – 1250 mg/m², except for one trial in which this dose range was administered 
as a single dose. Three trials were conducted in adults and one in paediatric patients. 
DLT consisting of grade 4 neutropenia and grade 4 thrombocytopenia occurred at 1000 mg in two of 
the  trials  in  adults.  Thus,  750  mg/m²/cycle  was  determined  as  the  MTD.  In  the  third  trial  grade  4 
the  MTD  being 
thrombocytopenia  occurred  as 
1000 mg/m²/cycle.  40%  of  the  patients  in  the  dose  escalation  phase  of  this  trial  had  received  prior 
chemotherapy  compared  to  82%  and  96%  in  the  two  other  trials.  This  might  explain  the  different 
MDT’s  and  for  the  phase  II  trials  a  starting  dose  of  750  mg/m²/cycle  and  1000  mg/m²/cycle  for 
patients with and without prior chemotherapy respectively were selected. 
the  1250  mg/m²/cycle,  with 
the  DLT  at 
For  paediatric  patients  grade  4  thrombocytopenia  and  grade  4  neutropenia  were  defined  as  DLT  for 
good-risk  (no  history  of  prior  treatment  with  nitrosureas  and/or  craniospinal  irradiation)  patients  at 
1200 mg/m²/cycle. The MTD was 1000 mg/m²/cycle. In the poor-risk patients the MTD could not be 
determined due to slow and limited patient accrual. 
Other adverse events seen in adults were nausea and vomiting, fatigue, headache, pain, constipation, 
fever and anorexia. No treatment-related deaths were reported.  
Non-haematological treatment-related adverse events occurring in at least two children were vomiting, 
nausea,  heamatoma,  headache,  somnolence,  fatigue  and  pain  in  good-risk  patients  and  vomiting, 
nausea  and  pain  in  poor-risk  patients.  Non-haematological  treatment-related  grade  3  or  4  adverse 
events were vomiting, pain, hyperesthesia, hepatic failure, respiratory insufficiency and renal failure, 
each  occurring  in  1  patient  except  for  pain  which  was  reported  in  2  patients.  One  treatment  related 
death has been reported in a paediatric poor-risk patient, misstratified to the good-risk arm. 
(2) 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  data  analysis  was  made  using  model-independent  methods.  A  population 
pharmacokinetic analysis included plasma samples from 359 patients in three phase I and three phase 
II studies. In the phase I studies patients with advanced cancer without bone marrow involvement were 
enrolled. In the phase II studies patients with GBM or AA were enrolled. In most studies both male 
and female patients were included. 
After oral administration to adult patients, temozolomide is absorbed rapidly with tmax between 0.5 and 
about 1.5 hours. After absorption, temozolomide was rapidly converted to the active substance, MTIC, 
and subsequently to AIC. Mean tmax values for MTIC were 1.5 to 2.0 hr after a single dose, and mean 
tmax  of  AIC  was  2.5  hr.  Cmax  values  for  MTIC  and  AIC  were  2.5  –  4.7%  and  13%  of  those  for 
temozolomide,  respectively.  The  data  indicate  complete  oral  bioavailability  of  the  drug.  Mean  AUC 
values  ranged  from  14.3-15.5  µg.hr/ml  for  a  dose  of  100  mg/m²  to  176  µg.hr/ml  for  a  dose  of 
1,000 mg/m². 
5/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
The mean apparent volume of distribution ranged from 0.35 l/kg to 0,63 l/kg on day 1 of cycle 1 and 
was  independent  of  the  dose.  Temozolomide  demonstrates  low  protein  binding  (10%  to  20%),  and 
thus it is not expected to interact with highly protein bound agents.  
In  plasma,  temozolomide  undergoes  non-enzymatic  hydrolysis  to  MTIC,  which  further  degrades  to 
AIC  and  the  reactive  diazonium  ion.  AIC  is  an  intermediate  of  the  biosynthesis  of  purines  and 
expected to be non-toxic. 
After  oral  administration  of  14C  -labelled  temozolomide,  mean  faecal  excretion  of  14C  over  7  days 
post-dose was 0.8%. The total recovery of  14C is low, probably because of the incorporation of AIC 
into  the  tissue  purine  pool.  Following  oral  administration,  approximately  5%  to  10%  of  the  dose  is 
recovered  unchanged  in  the  urine  over  24  hours,  and  the  remainder  excreted  as  temozolomide  acid, 
5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide (AIC) or unidentified polar metabolites. 
(3) 
Special populations 
Nineteen  paediatric  patients  (age  range  3  to  17  years)  were  evaluable  for  PK.  Temozolomide  was 
absorbed rapidly with a mean tmax in the range of 1.27 to 1.87 h in the different dose groups. The Cmax 
(1.36  to  1.75  h)  and  AUC  (24.0-48.7  µg.h/ml)  were  higher  than  in  adults.  This  did  not  result  in  a 
higher  myelotoxicity  presumably  due  to  a  higher  bone  marrow  reserve  in  children.  Dose-related 
increases  in  Cmax  and  AUC  were  observed.  The  mean  terminal  phase  half-life,  mean  body clearance 
and mean volume of distribution were independent of the dose and comparable to the values in adults. 
Mean  urinary  recovery  of  unchanged  temozolomide  and  mean  renal  clearance  were  also  consistent 
with  results  in  adults.  Following  multiple  dosing  no  accumulation  of  temozolomide  in  plasma  was 
observed. 
No pharmacokinetic trials in patients with renal dysfunction have been performed. In the population 
pharmacokinetic analysis (with patients having an estimated creatinine clearance above 20 ml/min/m²) 
renal function had no effect on the clearance of temozolomide. 
The  plasma  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  temozolomide  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic 
dysfunction  was  similar  to  that  observed  in  patients  with  normal  hepatic  function.  Based  on  the 
pharmacokinetic  properties  of  temozolomide  and  the  limited  clinical  data  available  hepatic  or  renal 
dysfunction is not expected to significantly reduce temozolomide clearance. 
In  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  age  had  no  effect  on  the  clearance  of  temozolomide. 
Elderly patients had the lowest median nadir neutrophil and platelet count and a higher incidence (not 
statistically  significant  in  this  small  number  of  patients)  of  neutropenia  and  thrombocytopenia  (see 
section 4.4 of the SPC). 
(i) 
Interaction studies 
Administration of Temodal with ranitidine did not result in alterations in the extent of absorption of 
temozolomide. 
Administration of Temodal with food resulted in a 33% decrease in Cmax and a 9% decrease in AUC. 
Although the clinical significance of these changes is unclear, Temodal should be administered in the 
fasting state. 
Based on an analysis of population pharmacokinetics observed in Phase II trials, co-administration of 
dexamethasone, prochlorperazine, phenytoin, carbamazepine, ondansetron, H2 receptor antagonists, or 
phenobarbital did not alter the clearance of temozolomide. Co-administration with valproic acid was 
associated with a small but statistically significant decrease in clearance of temozolomide.  
No  studies  have  been  conducted  to  determine  the  effect  of  temozolomide  on  the  metabolism  or 
elimination  of  other  drugs.  However,  since  temozolomide  does  not  require  hepatic  metabolism  and 
exhibits low protein binding, it is unlikely that it would affect the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal 
products. 
b) 
(1) 
(a) 
Clinical experience 
Efficacy 
Glioblastoma multiforme 
6/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
The following studies in GBM have been carried out: 
(2) 
Table 1 
Study 
number 
(3) 
Design 
C94-091  Open, multicenter, randomised, phase II, 
temozolomide vs. procarbazine in adult 
patients with GBM at first relapse 
ITT population 
(Eligible histology 
population)  
225 (210) 
Primary end-point 
PFS at 6 months 
194-122  Open, multicenter, non-comparative, 
138 (128) 
PFS at 6 months 
phase II, in adult patients with GBM at 
first relapse  
Efficacy data for paediatric patients derive from the I93-125 trial. 
(i) 
(ii) 
Trial description 
C94-091 
Patients  with  histologically  proven  supratentorial  GBM  with  tumour  progression  or  recurrence  (first 
relapse) after standard therapy were eligible for the trial. An independent central histology review was 
conducted.  
Temozolomide  patients  received  a  5-day  per  cycle  treatment  with  a  starting  dose  of  200  mg/m²/day 
(no  prior  chemotherapy)  or  150  mg/m²/day  (prior  chemotherapy)  orally.  Procarbazine  patients 
received  a  28-day  per  cycle  treatment  regimen  with  a  starting  dose  of  150  mg/m²/day  (no  prior 
chemotherapy) or 125 mg/m²/day (chemotherapy). Repeat cycles could be administered every 28 days 
(temozolomide) and 56 days (procarbazine) following the first dose of each cycle until unacceptable 
toxicity  or  disease  progression.  Procarbazine  was  selected  as  a  comparator  based  on  limited  data 
indicating that modest response rates were shown in three non-comparative trials. Furthermore, in the 
adjuvant  setting  procarbazine  was  better  than  methylprednisolone  and  comparable  to  BCNU  with 
respect to overall survival. Considering that no chemotherapeutic agent of proven efficacy in recurrent 
GBM is available, the choice of procarbazine was appropriate.  
The  primary  endpoint  was  PFS  at  6  months.  Progression  was  defined  as  progression  on  MRI  scans 
and/or  neurological  deterioration.  MRI  scans  were  also  evaluated  by  a  central  review  committee 
blinded for treatment assignment. Secondary end-points were overall survival, objective response rate 
and  health-related  quality  of  life  (HQL).  This  trial  was  not  planned  to  show  superiority  over 
procarbazine.  The  protocol  did  not  define  criteria  for  judgement  of  superiority  or  equivalence  in 
relation  to  the  comparator.  Instead  progression  free  survival  at  6  months  for  temozolomide  was 
supposed to be 20% and with 100 patients in this arm, the 95% CI for this effect would be 12-28%. 
Thus,  under  these  assumptions,  the  lower  limit  boundary  for  this  effect  would  be  above  the  10%, 
which was considered by the investigators to be the limit for non-effectiveness. 
(iii) 
I94-122 
GBM patients at first relapse who had failed conventional therapies at initial diagnosis were recruited. 
Patients  received  a  5-day  per  cycle  treatment  with  a  starting  dose  of  200  mg/m²/day  (no  prior 
chemotherapy)  or  150  mg/m²/day  (prior  chemotherapy)  orally.  Repeat  cycles  could  be  administered 
every 28 days following the first dose of each cycle until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. 
Also in this study, the primary endpoint was progression-free survival at 6 months, defined as in trial 
C94-091.  Secondary  objectives  were  the  evaluation  of  health-related  quality  of  life,  safety  and 
population pharmacokinetics. 
In  both  studies  treatment  with  study  drug  was  to  continue  until  death,  disease  progression, 
unacceptable toxicity, and request for withdrawal or until a maximum of 1 or 2 years of treatment. For 
all trials Kaplan-Meyer survival curves have been submitted. 
(iv) 
(v) 
Results 
C94-091 
7/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
All  patients  enrolled  had  failed  previous  radiotherapy,  and  the  majority  (67%)  of  patients  also  had 
failed nitrosourea-based chemotherapy at initial diagnosis: 65% in the temozolomide arm and 68% in 
the procarbazine arm. Twenty percent of patients had surgery at relapse. The median time to relapse 
from initial diagnosis was 7.0 months for the temozolomide group and 8.4 months for the procarbazine 
group. 
(4) 
Table 2 
PFSa 
PFS based on central 
reviewer's MRI 
assessment 
Overall survival 
6 months rate 
(95% CI) 
median 
6 months rate  
(95% CI) 
median  
6 months rate 
(95% CI) 
median  
Temozolomide 
21% 
(13-29%) 
2.9 months 
21% 
(12-30%) 
Procarbazine 
8% 
(3-14%) 
1.9 months 
8% 
(2-13%) 
3.5 months 
60 
(51-70%) 
7.3 months 
0% 
5% 
40% 
2.0 months 
44 
(35-53%) 
5.7 months 
0% 
5% 
27% 
p-value 
0.008b 
0.006c 
0.041c 
0.019b 
0.33c 
Complete responsed  
Partial responsed  
Stable diseased  
a defined as MRI progression and/or neurological worsening, b chi square test, c log rank test, d based on central 
reviewer's MRI assessment 
Results calculated from the time of start of treatment. 
Progression  was  due  to  clinical  and/or  neurological  deterioration  in  18  and  17  patients  with 
temozolomide  and  procarbazine,  respectively,  to  MRI  progression  in  47  and  44  patients  with 
temozolomide and procarbazine, respectively and to both neurological/clinical deterioration and MRI 
progression in 32 and 29 patients with temozolomide and procarbazine, respectively. 
For  those  patients  who  remained  progression  free  at  6  months,  quality  of  life  scores  in  7 domains 
(Table  3),  post  hoc  considered  to  be  those  most  relevant  for  patients  with  brain  tumours,  were 
improved over baseline in 5 domains for temozolomide and were lower than baseline in all 7 domains 
for  procarbazine  patients.  However,  it  should  be  observed  that  methodological  difficulties  prohibit 
firm conclusions. 
(5) 
Table 3 
Mean (SD) HQL Score Change from Baseline in Progression Free Survivors at 6 Months (Study No. 
C94-091) 
Group 
Functioning Scale a  
Symptom Scale b 
TMZ 
(n=20) 
PCB  
(n=8) 
Role 
6.1  
(21.7) 
-16.7 
(33.3) 
Social 
8.8  
(27.4) 
-25.0 
(40.8) 
Global 
QOL 
-3.4 
(30.9) 
-2.1 
(28.1) 
Visual 
disorder  
8.0 
(29.0) 
6.3 
(8.7) 
Motor 
dysfunction 
-2.3 
(28.3) 
11.1 
(17.8) 
Communication 
deficit 
-4.1  
(22.6) 
16.7 
(20.6) 
Drowsiness 
-15.8 
(25.7) 
8.3 
(29.5) 
a:    Functioning scale score ranges from 0 to 100 with a high score representing a high functioning; a positive 
change score means improvement in functioning. 
b:    Symptom scale score ranges from 0 to 100 with a high score representing a worse symptom; a negative 
change score means improvement in symptom. 
Despite  the  acknowledged  need  for  focus  on  clinical  benefit  in  patients  with  recurrent  malignant 
glioma, the protocol rather focused on MRI findings which is not an established surrogate endpoint. 
This  is  considered  to  be  a  substantial  shortcoming.  In  order  to  define  the  clinical  benefit  of 
temozolomide more directly, further analyses of time to neurological and clinical worsening have been 
conducted on prospectively collected data. These data are more heavily censored than the predefined 
8/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
analyses as no regular neurological follow-up examinations had been planned for patients classified as 
having progressive disease based on MRI scans.  
The following results are available: 
(6) 
Table 4 
Median (months) 
TMZ 
(n=112) 
P 
(n=113) 
logrank 
p-value 
4.2 
3.5 
0.035 
Time to neurological 
failure 
Time to KPS ≤60 
5.6 
3.5 
0.007 
Time to decrease of 
KPS by at least 30 
points 
6.7 
5.1 
0.003 
Worst clinical case 
3.8 
2.3 
0.01 
Event rate (6-months 
%) (censored) 
P 
(n=113) 
TMZ 
(n=112) 
χ2 
p-value 
62 
(41) 
56 
(51) 
46 
(69) 
65 
(38) 
74 
(53) 
78 
(55) 
69 
(66) 
81 
(47) 
0.013 
NA 
0.002 
NA 
0.006 
NA 
0.005 
NA 
Abbreviations: Event rate (6-months %): percentage of patients who have experienced the event at 6 months; 
TMZ, Temozolomide; P, Procarbazine; NA, not applicable; Worst clinical case, time to the first of any of the 
clinical events (neurological failure or KPS ≤60 or decrease of KPS by at least 30 points). 
Thus, data on neurological and clinical progression available for approximately half of the patients in 
both  groups  in  the  comparative  study  largely  support  the  MRI-based  PFS  findings.  It  seems 
unreasonable  to  believe  that  there  would  be  an  inverse  relationship  between  MRI  PFS  and  clinical 
progression for the half of patients censored for these analyses, which would be needed if there was 
truly  no  difference  between  the  treatment  groups  in  clinical  progression.  Therefore,  it  seems 
reasonable to conclude that a benefit in MRI progression correlates to clinical benefit. However, from 
a principle point of view, it would have been preferable in these studies to evaluate all patients until 
clinical worsening (symptom relief) by evaluators separated from the study and blinded for treatment 
allocation. 
The  benefit  of  temozolomide  was  shown  in  patients  without  prior  nitrosourea-based  chemotherapy 
while in previously treated patients it appears to be limited to those with good  (i.e., ≥ 80) Karnofsky 
Performance Status (KPS), (Table 5). 
9/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(7) 
Table 5 
PFS eligible 
histology 
population 
PFS excluding 
patients with 
baseline 
KPS=70 
Prior chemotherapy 
No prior chemotherapy 
Median 
(months) 
Event-free at  
6-months (%) 
Median 
(months) 
Event-free at  
6-months (%) 
TMZ 
P 
TMZ 
1.97 
1.88 
18 
P 
9 
TMZ 
P 
TMZ 
3.91 
1.91 
22 
P 
7 
2.76 
1.88 
27 
12 
4.11 
2.14 
21 
6 
Abbreviations: see Table 4; TMZ, Temozolomide; P, Procarbazine. 
(8) 
I94-122 
All  patients  enrolled  had  failed  previous  radiotherapy,  and  29%  also  had  failed  nitrosourea-based 
therapy  at  initial  diagnosis.  Thirteen  percent  of  patients  had  surgery  at  relapse.  The  median  time  to 
relapse from initial diagnosis was 8.1 months. 
The 6-month PFS was 19% (95% CI: 12%-26%). The median PFS was 2.1 months. The analysis of 
event-free survival was similar. Median overall survival was 5.4 months. Forty-six percent of patients 
were alive beyond 6 months. Response rate based on the central reviewer assessment was 8% (2 CR 
and  9 PR) for the ITT  population. Including 60 patients with SD as response, the response rate was 
51%. 
(a) 
Anaplastic Astrocytoma 
After the granting of the Marketing Authorisation the Marketing Authorisation Holder applied for an 
extension of the indication with AA. The results of one clinical trail were submitted. 
Trial description 
C/194-123  is  a  non-comparative  multicentre  study  of  temozolomide  in  patients  with  AA  at  first 
relapse. 162 patients were enrolled. All patients had been treated with radiotherapy at initial diagnosis, 
60%  had  also  received  a  nitrosourea-containing  chemotherapy.  Temozolomide  was  administered 
orally at a starting dose of 200 mg/m² and 150 mg/m² in patients without and with prior chemotherapy, 
respectively, once a day for 5 days, repeated every 28 days. 
Results 
PFS at 6 months was 46% (95% CI 39% - 54%), median PFS was 5.4 months. Event-free survival at  
6 months was 44% (95% CI 36% - 51%). Median overall survival was 14.6 months. Thirteen complete 
and 43 partial responses determined by central MRI review were reported, for an objective response 
rate  of  35%.  Forty-three  patients  had  stable  disease.  HQL  responses  were  frequent  in  patients  with 
objective CR or PR or stable disease. The safety profile of temozolomide in AA patients was similar 
as in the GBM studies.  
Concerning  the  13  CR  reported  in  this  trial,  an  independent  MRI  evaluation  confirmed  5  CRs.  The 
remaining 8 patients were classified as PR or stable disease of a clinically meaningful duration. The 
outcome of malignant glioma patients with CR, PR or stable disease following first-line chemotherapy 
does not seem to differ. However, the outcome is worse in patients with progressive disease. Therefore 
the rate of CR, PR or prolonged disease stabilisation might be of higher clinical relevance than the CR 
rate alone. In summary, a pronounced cytostatic effect was acknowledged in these 13 patients.  
10/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As C/194-123 is the only clinical trial in AA, it is of particular importance that the response rate is not 
biased  by  ineligible  and  presumably  more  chemosensitive  histologies  such  as  oligodendroglioma. 
Forty-four of 162 enrolled patients had a non-eligible histology according to the central pathology:  
19  patients  were  diagnosed  as  GBM,  6  patients  as  anaplastic  oligodendroglioma,  6  patients  as 
oligodendroglioma,  13  patients  as  other  low-grade  histologies.  For  7  patients,  histology  was  not 
available.  It  is  acknowledged  that  in  a  subgroup  analysis,  median  PFS  and  median  overall  survival 
were  similar  in  the  eligible  histology  population  and  the  ITT  population.  Response  rates  of  patients 
with eligible reveal essentially the same results as in the ITT population.  
Reference  was  made  to  a  historical  control  group  of  patients  with  relapsed  AA  treated  with  single 
agent  or  combination  chemotherapy  (UCSF  database).  Six-months  event-free  survival  rates  were 
slightly  higher  with  temozolomide.  However,  95%  CI  were  largely  overlapping.  Thus,  the 
antineoplastic  activity  of  temozolomide  seemed  to  be  at  least  similar  to  other  agents  used  in  this 
setting, but not outstanding. 
AA and GBM originate from the same cell type. Patients with AA and GBM have often been enrolled 
in the same clinical trials, without stratification, although histology is a prognostic factor for survival. 
In general, cytostatic agents active in GBM are also active in AA. In the adjuvant setting, the benefit 
of chemotherapy is more pronounced in AA than in GBM. Although data are sparse, recurrent AA is 
also believed to be more chemosensitive than recurrent GBM. This is supported by the results of the 
temozolomide trials, with an overall response rate of 35% in recurrent AA (C/194-123) and 5% and 
8% in GBM (trial C94-091 and 194-122, respectively). 
No randomised clinical trial of temozolomide vs. another therapeutic option in patients with recurrent 
AA was submitted. However, a small palliative benefit of temozolomide has been demonstrated in a 
randomised trial in recurrent GBM. If there were arguments supporting extrapolation of the observed 
beneficial  effect  in  recurrent  GBM  to  AA,  the  new  indication  recurrent  AA  would  seem  acceptable 
with the limited non-comparative data available.  
In addition the MAH has provided the CR/PR/SD rate and Kaplan-Meier curves for PFS and OS in the 
eligible  histology  population  of  the  AA  study,  revealing  essentially  the  same  results  as  in  the  ITT 
population.  
(b) 
Clinical studies in specific populations 
Study I93-125, a phase I study enrolled paediatric patients (<18 years, mean 9 years) with advanced 
cancers,  no  bone  marrow  involvement,  and  WHO  performance  status  of  0,1  or  2.  Patients  were 
stratified  by  presence  or  absence  of  prior  nitrosourea  therapy  and  craniospinal  irradiation.  In  this 
study, 15 of 28 patients enrolled had relapsed primary CNS tumours, either high-grade astrocytomas 
or  brain  stem  gliomas.  Preliminary  efficacy  in  paediatric  patients  with  malignant  glioma  was  seen, 
including 2 PR and 1 SD in 10 brain stem glioma. Two out of 5 patients with high-grade astrocytoma 
had responses of CR and PR, respectively. An additional patient had stable disease at 4 months. 
(9) 
Safety 
(10) 
Patient exposure 
The  overall  patient  exposure/safety  data  for  temozolomide  were  obtained  from  a  safety  database 
comprising information from 1030 patients in 21 studies. 
The safety database also includes trials for other indications, which have not been authorised. 
(11) 
Adverse events, including serious adverse events 
The  proportion  of  patients  that  died  within  30  days  of  the  last  study treatment  administration was  5 
and 14% for studies 194-123 (AA) and 194-122 (GBM), respectively. These fatal events were mostly 
judged unrelated  to temozolomide  administration.  Two deaths, related to intratumoural haemorrhage 
and  cerebral  ischemia,  were  judged  possibly  related  to  study  medication.  In  the  pooled  safety 
population  of  1030  patients,  35  and  13%  of  the  patients  had  grade  3  and  grade  4  adverse  events, 
respectively (NCI-CTC). The majority of these events were judged disease related. The safety profile 
of temozolomide in AA patients was similar as in the GBM studies. 
11/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
trials, 
the  most  frequently  occurring 
In  clinical 
treatment-related  undesirable  effects  were 
gastrointestinal  disturbances,  specifically  nausea  (43%)  and  vomiting  (36%).  These  effects  were 
usually grade 1 or 2 (1 - 5 episodes of vomiting in 24 hours) and were either self-limiting or readily 
controlled  with  standard  anti-emetic  therapy.  The  incidence of severe  nausea and vomiting was 4%. 
Severe myelosuppression, predominantly thrombocytopenia, was dose-limiting, and occurred in 8% of 
all patients. Severe anaemia was reported in 3% of patients and severe neutropenia in 4% of patients. 
Myelosuppression was predictable (usually within the first few cycles, with the nadir between Day 21 
and  28),  and  recovery  was  rapid,  usually  within  1-2  weeks.  No  evidence  of  cumulative 
myelosuppression was observed. 
Other  adverse  events  reported  frequently  include  fatigue  (22%),  constipation  (17%),  and  headache 
(14%).  Anorexia  (11%),  diarrhoea  (8%),  rash,  fever,  and  somnolence (6% each) were also reported. 
Less  common  (2%  to  5%)  and  in  descending  order  of  frequency  were  asthenia;  pain,  including 
abdominal pain; dizziness; weight loss; dyspnoea; dyspepsia; alopecia; rigors; pruritus; malaise; taste 
perversion and paresthesia. 
2. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Pre-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
With  regard  to  the  pharmacodynamics  the  mechanism  of  action  is  reasonably  well  established. 
Metabolic studies were performed in mouse, rat, dog and human. The metabolism is comparable in all 
species. Overall the toxicology program revealed that the primary targets of toxicity included the bone 
marrow, lymphoreticular system, testes, the gastrointestinal tract. This information has been included 
in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
GBM 
At  present,  in  patients  with  GBM  at  progression/first  relapse  after  standard  treatment  no  well-
established therapy is available. In this situation, procarbazine was accepted as a comparator. A small 
palliative benefit of temozolomide on PFS which significantly differs from that of procarbazine was 
shown in a clinical trial. The benefit of temozolomide in patients previously treated with nitrosourea 
based chemotherapy appears to be limited to those with KPS of 80 or better. 
AA 
No  randomised  trial  in  recurrent  AA  has  been  submitted.  Based  on  the  non-comparative  data  alone, 
the  therapeutic  indication  of  anaplastic  AA  would  not  meet  the  requirements  of the  CPMP Note for 
Guidance on the Evaluation of Anticancer Medicinal Products in Man. 
However,  a  palliative  benefit  of  temozolomide  has  been  shown  in  recurrent  GBM.  In  view  of  the 
antineoplastic activity in recurrent AA demonstrated in a non-comparative trial, the similarities of AA 
and  GBM  and  the  higher  chemoresponsiveness  of  AA,  it  seems  reasonable  to  conclude  that  the 
palliative  effects  of  temozolomide  in  recurrent  GBM  can  be  extrapolated  to  AA.  In  addition  the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder agreed to undertake a comparative Phase III study in first line treatment 
of  Anaplastic Astrocytoma with concomitant radiation. The study will enrol approximately 400 patients 
over 40 months with 36 months of follow-up. The comparative arm will include BCNU (with concomitant 
radiation) and the primary endpoint will be survival. Thus, inclusion of recurrent AA in the therapeutic 
indication is recommended. 
12/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Children 
Although  the  experience  in  paediatric  patients  is  limited,  paediatric  patients  are  not  excluded  from 
treatment  with  temozolomide  as  there  is  no  evidence  that  the  tumour  biology  differs  in  children 
3 years  of  age  and  older  and  adults,  and  therapy  of  high  grade  gliomas  is  similar  in  paediatric  and 
adult patients. Furthermore, tolerance to Temodal seems to be as good as in adult patients. 
Safety 
The safety profile is favourable, with low and manageable toxicity. Myelosuppression is the DLT and 
nausea and vomiting are the most frequent non-haematological adverse events. The safety profile is in 
accordance with that expected from pre-clinical studies. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The  CPMP  acknowledged  that  a  small  palliative  benefit  in  patients  with  GBM  at  first  relapse  or 
progression  after  surgery  and  radiotherapy  with  or  without  adjuvant  chemotherapy  has  been 
demonstrated  in  one  open  study  in  which  procarbazine  acted  as  a  comparator.  Further  data  from 
randomised  clinical  trials  would  have  been  desirable.  However,  there  is  currently  no  other  well-
established  treatment  option  for  these  patients  with  a  short  life  expectancy.  Furthermore, 
temozolomide  has  low  and  manageable  toxicity  and  is  administered  orally  without  requiring 
hospitalisation. 
In  view  of  the  antineoplastic  activity  in  recurrent  AA  demonstrated  in  a  non-comparative  trial,  the 
similarities  of  AA  and  GBM  and  the  higher  chemoresponsiveness  of  AA,  it  seems  reasonable  to 
conclude that the palliative effects of temozolomide in recurrent GBM can be extrapolated to AA. 
Based on the available data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus the 
benefit/risk profile of Temodal in the treatment of malignant glioma, such as glioblastoma multiforme 
or anaplastic astrocytoma, showing recurrence or progression after standard therapy to be favourable. 
6.  Update of Clinical Safety post-authorisation 
-  The following undesirable effects were included in the SPC in April 2002: pancytopenia, 
leukopenia, anaemia, allergic reactions (including anaphylaxis urticaria, angioedema, exanthema, 
erythroderma,) and erythema multiforme. The Package Leaflet was revised accordingly. 
-  The 5th PSUR of Temodal covering the period of 26 January 2001 to 25 January 2002 indicated an 
temozolomide-induced 
increased  risk  of  bleeding  disorders  and 
thrombocytopenia  and  leukocytopenia.  The  MAH  has  updated  section  4.8  of  the  SPC  by 
describing  these  findings.  Furthermore,  the  MAH  has  presented  the  undesirable  effects  in  organ 
classes and has sorted them by observed frequency. The Package Leaflet was updated accordingly. 
infections  assumed 
to 
-  Following  the  assessment  of  Temodal  6th  PSUR  the  MAH  has  added  information  in  section  4.8 
(undesirable effects) addressing the potential occurrence of secondary tumours, in particular MDS 
and leukaemia, following treatment with temozolomide.  
In addition the MAH has added “opportunistic infections…” and “lymphopenia” under SPC 4.8, 
and  instructions  in  the  case  of  an  overdose  under  4.9  were  strengthened.  The  Labeling  and  PL 
have been revised accordingly.  
In order to avoid the occurrence of "medication errors", dosing instructions had been clarified in 
the Package Leaflet. 
7.  
Additional  indication:    Newly  diagnosed  glioblastoma  multiforme  concomitantly  with 
radiotherapy and subsequently as monotherapy treatment 
Glioblastoma  multiforme  (GBM)  is  the  most  common  and  most  aggressive  of  the  primary  brain 
tumors in adults. It represents 15% to 20 % of all brain tumors and about 50 % of all gliomas. It is 
13/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
highly malignant, infiltrates the brain extensively, and at times may become enormous before turning 
symptomatic. 
The current World Health Organization (WHO) classification of primary brain tumors lists GBM as a 
Grade  IV  astrocytoma.  GBM  is  slightly  more  common  in  men  than  in  women;  the  male-to-female 
ratio is 3:2. While GBM occurs in all age groups, its incidence is increasing in elderly patients. A true 
increase  in  incidence  of  primary  brain  tumors  exists,  which  cannot  be  explained  by  the  aging 
population, better imaging techniques, or earlier detection at surgery.  
GBM  is  an  anaplastic, highly cellular tumor with poorly differentiated, round, or pleomorphic  cells, 
the  modified  WHO 
occasional  multinucleated  cells,  nuclear  atypia,  and  anaplasia.  Under 
classification, GBM differs from anaplastic astrocytomas (AA) by the presence of necrosis under the 
microscope.  
The  incidence  of  GBM  is  fairly  constant  worldwide.  Among  primary  brain  tumors,  malignant 
astrocytomas are the most common in all age groups (however, brain metastases are more common). 
GBMs  are  the  most  common  primary  brain  tumors  in  adults,  accounting  for  12-15%  of  intracranial 
tumors and 50-60% of primary brain tumors. GBM may develop de novo (primary GBM) or through 
secondary  progression  from  a  previously  diagnosed  low-grade  or  anaplastic  glioma;  most  patients 
have primary GBM.  
Morbidity is depending on the tumor location, progression, and pressure effects. The overall prognosis 
for  GBM  has  changed  little  in  the  past  2  decades,  despite  major  improvements  in  neuroimaging, 
neurosurgery,  radiation  treatment  techniques,  supportive  care  and  new  chemotherapy  agents  and 
regimens. Prognosis for GBM remains poor, the median survival is 9 to 12 months, the 2-year survival 
rates are between 8% and 12%. 
The  standard  treatment  of  malignant  gliomas  includes  maximum  surgical  resection,  when  feasible, 
followed by partial brain radiotherapy. Radiotherapy can be combined or followed by chemotherapy. 
Although  clinical  benefit  of  chemotherapy  is  only  small,  chemotherapy  agents  are  used  for  the 
treament of GBM: Cytotoxic agents most commonly applied for chemotherapy are nitrosourea-based 
regimens  such  as  BCNU  (carmustine)  and  procarbazine,  furthermore,  vinca  alkaloids,  platinum 
compounds, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate are used.  
3.2.  Toxico-pharmacological 
In vitro studies that explored the effect of temozolomide combined with X-irradiation on cell killing 
have shown the interaction was at least additive in 3 of 4 human tumor cell lines tested, with a strong 
potentiation  seen  in  the  D384  glioma  line.  Temozolomide  also  was  shown  to  inhibit  irradiation-
induced glioma cell invasion in vitro. 
3.3.  Clinical aspects 
Several clinical trials have already been performed to analyse the efficacy and safety of the treatment 
of  patients  with  newly  diagnosed  GBM  using  radiotherapy  and  temozolomide  as  concomitant  and 
subsequent monotherapy therapy. A summary is presented in table 1. 
14/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  1.  Summary  of  Published  Studies  of  Radiotherapy  and  Concomitant  and  subsequent 
monotherapy Temozolomide for the Treatment of Glioblastoma Multiforme 
Reference 
(study design) 
Histology /  
demographics 
No. of 
Patients 
Treatment 
Median Survival 
(months) 
1-Year 
Survival 
2-Year 
Survival 
Stupp 
new GBM / 
64 
RT+TMZa 
16 
58% 
31% 
(Phase 2, open-
label) 
39 M; 25 F 
median age=52 yr 
(range 24-70 yr) 
(11-21 95% CI) 
(36%  
18 mon) 
Lanzetta 
new GBM / 
21 
RT+TMZa 
15.7 
58% 
- 
13 M; 8 F 
median age=44 yr  
(range 25-75 yr) 
GBM=93; AA=34; 
AO=3 /  
74 M; 56 F 
mean age=57 yr  
(range 26-78 yr) 
new GBM / 
na 
(Phase 2, open-
label) 
Corsa 
(retrospective 
chart review) 
Athanassiou 
(Phase 3, 
randomized, 
open-label) 
 (10.25-30.5 
range) 
16  
130 
RT+TMZa (n=65) 
34=C+A 
31=A only 
RT alone (n=65) 
14  
(36%  
18 mon) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
110 
RT+TMZb (n=57) 
RT alone (n=53) 
- 
- 
55% 
15% 
16% 
0 
a:  Daily administration of TMZ (75 mg/m2/day for 6 weeks) during radiotherapy, followed by monotherapy treatment 
with TMZ (150-200 mg/m2/day x 5 days every 28 days for 6 cycles). 
b:  Daily administration of TMZ (75 mg/m2/day for 6 weeks) during radiotherapy, followed by monotherapy treatment 
with TMZ (150 mg/m2 days 1-5 and days 15-19 every 28 days for 6 cycles). 
AA = anaplastic astrocytoma; AO = anaplastic oligodendroglioma; GBM = glioblastoma multiforme; RT = radiotherapy; 
TMZ = temozolomide; C+A = concomitant and monotherapy therapy; A only = monotherapy only. 
Clinical Pharmacology 
Temodal is an oral cytotoxic alkylating agent, a prodrug which undergoes nonenzymatic hydrolysis at 
physiological pH to its active metabolite 3-methyl-(triazen-1-yl)imidazole-4-carboxamide (MTIC), as 
same as dacarbazine (DTIC). The cytotoxicity of temozolomide is thought to be due primarily to 
alkylation of DNA. 
Temozolomide can cross the blood brain barrier with a concentration in the cerebral spinal fluid of 
approximately 20% to 40% of that found in plasma. 
II 
III  Dosage 
In Phase 1 studies, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of temozolomide administered for days 1-5 of 
a 28-day cycle was 200 mg/m2, with myelosuppression being the dose-limiting toxicity; for patients 
with extensive prior chemotherapy, the MTD was 150mg/m2 daily for days 1-5 of a 28-day cycle. The 
MTD for the extended-dose schedule was found to be 85 mg/m2/day over 42 days, with a 
recommended starting dose for newly diagnosed patients receiving concomitant RT of 75 mg/m2/day 
for further investigation of temozolomide for the treatment of malignant gliomas. 
The dosage recommended for relapsed glioma (one of the licensed indications ) is 150 mg/m2 for the 
initial cycle, 200 mg/m2 for the second and subsequent cycles for pretreated patients. Chemotherapy-
naive patients can begin with the higher dosage (200 mg/m2) from the first cycle. Duration of 1 cycle 
is 28 days and temozolomide is given orally the first 5 days, then after 23 days a new cycle is to begin 
if no haematological occurs. 
15/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV  Clinical Efficacy 
V 
VI  Main study 
One  clinical  trial,  (EORTC  26981/22981)  was  performed  to  prove  the  efficacy  and  safety  for  the 
broadened indication for temozolomide, in the  treatment of patients with newly diagnosed GBM, as 
concomitant therapy to radiotherapy followed by monotherapy in comparison to radiotherapy alone. 
This  was  a  controlled,  open-label, randomised multicenter phase 3  trial which included 573 patients 
(ITT  population),  287  in  the  experimental  arm  (Radiotherapy  +  temozolomide:  RT+TMZ)  and  286 
patients in the control arm (radiotherapy alone: RT). 85 study centers throughout Europe, Canada and 
Australia  were  involved.  The  studied  period  was  from  17th  August  2000  to  14th  April  2004.  The 
applicant  declares  that  the  trial  was  conducted  in  accordance  with  principles  of  Declaration  of 
Helsinki, International  Conference on Harmonisation Guideline for Good Clinical Practice and local 
laws and regulations. 
Objectives and endpoints  
The primary objective was to determine the efficacy of temozolomide administration as a concomitant 
treatment to radiotherapy followed by monotherapy treatment for up to 6 cycles with respect to overall 
survival in subjects with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme compared to radiotherapy alone. 
Secondary  objectives  were  to  compare  the  two  treatment  arms  with  respect  to  toxicity  profile, 
progression free survival and quality of life. 
Overall survival was the primary efficacy endpoint.  
Duration of survival was defined as time interval between the date of randomisation and the date of 
death. Subjects who were still alive when last traced were censored at the date of last follow up. 
Progression  free  survival  was  the  secondary  endpoint.  Progression  free  survival  was  defined  as 
radiological,  neurological  or  clinical  progression,  whatever  occurs  first,  and  as  the  time  interval 
between the date of randomisation and the date of disease progression or death, whichever comes first. 
If  neither  event  has  been  observed  then  the  patient  is  censored  at  the  date  of  the  last  follow-up 
examination.  
The treatment schedule for both arms is summarized in the table 2 below. 
Table 2. Treatment schedule / Dose regimens in trial  EORTC 26981/22981: 
Experimental Arm: RT+TMZ 
Control Arm: RT Only 
0. Radiotherapy 
Focal Radiotherapy 6 weeks,  
60 Gy in 30 day´s fractions of 2 Gy/Day, 5 
days a week 
Focal Radiotherapy 6 weeks,  
60 Gy in 30 day´s fractions of 2 
Gy/Day, 5 days a week 
1. Concomitant therapy  Concomitant with Radiotherapy: 
2. Monotherapy 
3. Follow up:  
Salvage therapy 
after disease progression  
Temozolomide: 75 mg/m2 orally daily for 6 
weeks (42 days) and PCP prophylaxis 
4 weeks after last Radiotherapy  
Temozolomide: 6 Cycles 
Cycle 1: 150mg/m2 daily for 5 days every 28 
days  
Cycles 2 through 6: 
200mg/m2 daily for 5 days every 28 days 
- Chemotherapy: Temozolomide or CCNU or 
Procarbazine or Vincristine or BCNU 
- Surgery 
VII  No concomitant therapy 
VIII  No monotherapy 
- Chemotherapy: Temozolomide or 
CCNU or Procarbazine or 
Vincristine or BCNU 
- Surgery 
IX 
Randomisation 
Randomisation was based on the local pathology review. A central pathology review was performed 
either jointly by the three EU neuropathologists or by the one Canadian neuropathologist. 
Treatment allocation was done centrally directly on the EORTC Data Center Computer through the 
INTERNET network or by telephone to the EORTC Data Center. 
Stratification 
16/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The protocol-specified prognostic factors for stratification at randomisation were: age (< 50 years vs ≥ 
50 years), WHO-ECOG-performance status (0-1 vs.2) and extent of resection at surgery (biopsy only 
vs. complete/incomplete resection). Stratification by age was not conducted „due to an operational 
oversight“. Stratification was also made by study center. 
Interim analysis  
X 
An Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) was established to meet when the interim 
analyses or the final analysis had been performed by the statisticians to consider all aspects of the trial 
and, if necessary, to recommend changes in the conduct of the trial. 
Two interim analyses were planned, at least only the first was performed in concordance with the 
study protocol after 236 patients were accrued and only 21 deaths had occurred. The independent 
committee decided to continue the trial without changes. 
XI  Statistical evaluation 
Kaplan-Meier estimates of the survival functions were obtained for the primary (OS) and secondary 
(PFS) endpoint. Differences between both treatment arms were compared using 2-sided log-rank test. 
The primary analysis was conducted on the intent-to-treat population (ITT). Subjects were analysed 
according to the treatment they were assigned to receive. In order to quantify the treatment effect, for 
each endpoint an unadjusted overall hazard ratio (HR) and its 95% 2-sided confidence interval (95% 
CI) were computed using the Cox proportional hazards regression model (Cox regression) with 
treatment arm as the sole explanatory variable. Furthermore, a protocol-available population was 
defined and the results were compared to those obtained from the ITT population. 
Results 
XII  Patient characteristics 
Baseline demographic data:  
103 female and 185 male patients were included in the trial arm (RT+TMZ) and 109 female and 175 
male patients were included in the RT Only arm. Most patients were 50 years or older and had a 
performance status of 0 or 1. Median age of patients was 55 (range 18-70) and 56 (range 23-70) years 
in the trial and in the control arm. Baseline disease characteristics are resumed in table 3.  
Concomitant medication 
Pneumocystis carinii prophylaxis during the concomitant phase was mandatory in all patients 
receiving concomitant daily temozolomide regardless of lymphocyte count.  If lymphopenia occurred, 
the PCP prophylaxis was  continued until lymphopenia recovered to <= grade 1. Antiemetic therapy 
was used for patients receiving temozolomide. Corticosteroid usage was similar in both trial groups 
during the trial period. Antiepileptic agents like valproic acid were allowed to be used during the trial. 
17/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XIII  Efficacy Results 
The hazard ratio for overall survival was 1.59 (95% CI for HR=1.33-1.91). Kaplan Meier estimates of the 
survival distributions show an improvement achieved with RT + TMZ compared to RT alone. The median 
overall survival is 14.6 months for the trial arm and 12.1 months for the control arm. The one-year-survival was 
61% for the RT + TMZ arm and 50% for the RT Only arm. The most significant results were obtained for the 2 
year survival which was 26% for the RT + TMZ arm and 10 % for the RT Only arm. 
Table 4.  
18/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Events, Censoring and Hazard-Ratios by Specified Time Intervals (ITT Population) 
Treatment 
Time Interval 
(Months) 
>0–4 
>4–8 
>8–12 
>12–16 
>16–20 
>20–24 
>24–28 
>28–32 
>32 
RT Only 
Censored 
Dead 
Cont. 
0 
1 
0 
1 
1 
7 
11 
3 
1 
29 
45 
67 
55 
41 
16 
7 
1 
0 
257 
211 
144 
88 
46 
23 
5 
1 
0 
Cum(%) 
Deada 
10 
26 
50 
69 
83 
90 
95 
96 
NI 
RT+TMZ 
Censored 
Dead 
Cont. 
2 
0 
0 
3 
4 
15 
13 
16 
15 
24 
36 
51 
44 
35 
16 
10 
3 
0 
261 
225 
174 
127 
88 
57 
34 
15 
0 
Cum(%) 
Deada 
8 
Hazard 
Ratio 
(KM)b 
1.22 
21 
39 
55 
67 
74 
78 
81 
NI 
1.27 
1.38 
1.48 
1.62 
1.70 
1.91 
1.94 
NI 
a  Cumulative percent was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 
b:  Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates of hazard ratios at endpoints of intervals. 
RT = radiotherapy, TMZ = temozolomide, Cont. = continued, Cum = cumulative, NI = not interpretable. 
Table 5. Summary of Efficacy Results for EORTC Trial 26981/22981 
Study Number /  
Histology 
EORTC 
26981/22981 
GBM, newly 
diagnosed 
Treatment 
(No. of 
Subjects) 
RT+TMZ 
(287) 
RT Only 
(286) 
Dosage 
Radiotherapy 60 Gya  + 
TMZ 75 mg/m2/day po 
daily x 42 days, then  
TMZ 150-200 mg/m2/day 
po 5 days/28 days for  6 
cycles (4 weeks after RT) 
Radiotherapy  60 Gya 
Progression-Free 
Survival 
Median (months) 
Overall Survival 
Median 
(months) 
14.59 
1-Year (%) 
61% 
2-Year 
(%) 
26% 
6.90 
4.98 
12.09 
50% 
10% 
Hazard Ratio  
(95% CI) 
P <0.0001 
1.85 
(1.55-2.20) 
P <0.0001 
1.59 
(1.33-1.91) 
a:  Radiotherapy was administered in 30 daily fractions of 2 Gy 5 times per week for 6 weeks. 
EORTC = European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer ; GBM = glioblastoma multiforme; po = per os 
(orally); RT = radiotherapy; TMZ = temozolomide. 
Kaplan-Meier Curves for Overall Survival  
Figure 1: (ITT Population: EORTC Trial 26981/22981) 
19/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HR (95% C.I.) = 1.59 (1.33 – 1.91)
HR (95% C.I.) = 1.59 (1.33 – 1.91)
log-rank p-value < .0001
log-rank p-value < .0001
26%
26%
10%
10%
RT+TMZ (n = 287)
RT+TMZ (n = 287)
RT (n = 286)
RT (n = 286)
12.1
12.1
14.6
14.6
Median progression free survival was 6,9 months for patients of the trial arm and 4,98 months for 
patients of the control arm. The HR for progression-free survival was 1.85 (95% CI for HR = 1.55 to 
2.20).  
Figure 2. Kaplan-Meier Estimates for Progression-Free Survival (ITT Population) 
HR (95% C.I.) = 1.85 (1.55
HR (95% C.I.) = 1.85 (1.55
log -rank p -value < .0001
log -rank p -value < .0001
– 2.20)
– 2.20)
RT+TMZ (n = 287)
RT+TMZ (n = 287)
RT (n = 286)
RT (n = 286)
The significant prolongation of progression-free survival on RT+TMZ compared to RT Only is 
depicted by the Kaplan-Meier curves (Figure 2). The benefit of RT+TMZ treatment over RT Only 
became apparent early (within 4 months) and was evident for more than 20 months. 
Clinical studies in special populations / Examination of subgroups 
20/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The EORTC trial showed improvement for temozolomide in rather all subgroups. Those patients 
classified having ECOG performance status 2 showed less or no improvement. (see figure below) 
Overall Survival in Subgroups: Hazard Ratios with 95% Confidence Intervals (EORTC Trial 
26981/22981). Numbers in parentheses indicate numbers of subjects (RT Only/RT+TMZ) . 
XIV  Discussion of clinical efficacy 
The EORTC trial 26981/2298 is a well designed and adequately sized study. However, this study does 
not  distinguish  the  relative  contribution  of  drug  administration  during  radiotherapy  from  the 
contribution  of  monotherapy,  as  the  ideal  design  would  have  been  a  4  arm  trial  (better  still  a  2x2 
factorial).  Nevertheless,  the  results  show  significant  and  consistent,  thus  convincing  efficacy, 
supporting  the  beneficial  effect  of  temozolomide  administered  concomitantly  with  radiotherapy 
followed  by  monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  newly  diagnosed  GBM.  Superior  overall 
survival  and  progression-free  survival  compared  with  treatment  with  radiotherapy  alone  have  been 
demonstrated.  The  median  survival  improvement  from  12.09  to  14.59  months  is  less  impressive, 
although  highly  significant,  than  the  more  than  double  (26  vs.  10%)  survival  at  2  years  or  more. 
According to the Kaplan-Meier plots the survival curves diverge during approximately 28 months. 
Patients  outcome  was  assessed  for  patients  with  brain  biopsy  only  and  with  debulking  therapy. 
Following  a  CHMP  request  the  MAH  provided  additional  data  on  the  outcome  of  patients  with 
debulking therapy with either partial resection or with complete resection demonstrating that treatment 
with temozolomide concomitant to radiotherapy (RT + TMZ) and subsequent monotherapy in newly 
diagnosed  glioblastoma  multiforme  (GBM)  subjects  was  superior  to  radiotherapy  alone  (RT Only) 
with respect to overall survival across all resected patients regardless of the extent of resection.   
The overall survival results is consistent in all subgroups analysed with the exception of those with a 
poor  performance  status  (ECOG  PS=2).  It  raises  some  concern  whether  this  subgroup  should  be 
21/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treated  with  temozolomide.  However  no  unacceptable  safety  issues  were  identified  in  this  group  of 
patients. 
Comparison  of  the  two  treatment  arms  with  respect  to  quality  of  life  was  one  of  the  secondary 
objectives of the study. However quality of life was not assessed by the MAH during the trialQuality 
of life data of temozolomide such as assessed in the EORTC Trial 26981/22981 should be provided 
and  be  in  support  of  the  reported  improvement  in  progression-free  and  overall  survival.  A  small 
negative impact of quality of life was seen in patients treated with combined radio- and chemotherapy. 
A positive influence on QOL could not be proven. However, a benefit in overall survival is important 
in  the  treatment  of  glioblastoma  multiforme  with  a  very  limited  prognosis.  The  final  report  will  be 
provided by the applicant when it is accepted for publication 
XV  Clinical Safety 
Patient exposure 
More than 80% of patients received between >90 and 120 % of the planned dosage of temozolomide 
(% of 75mg/m2/day for 42 days) during the concomitant phase. 
Of the 237 patients who received > 90% of the intended dose intensity, 22 subjects had to interrupt 
due to toxicity or for reasons unrelated to study drug. 
3.1 
Temozolomide Exposure, Concomitant phase 
XVII  Number (%) of Subjects 
XVIII  Relative Dose intensity  
(% of 75mg/m2/day for 42 days) in 
(%) 
XIX  Days Dosed 
Treated 
Not treated 
≤70% 
>70-90% 
>90-110% 
>110-120% 
>120% 
Median 
Range 
XVI  RT+TMZ 
(N=288) 
282 (97.9) 
    6   (2.1) 
  19   (6.6) 
26   (9.0) 
198 (68.8) 
  37 (12.8) 
    2   (0.7) 
   42.0 
 4.0-55.0 
RT+TMZ= radiotherapy plus temozolomide, N(%)= Number (percentage) of subjects 
XX  Extent of exposure to radiotherapy 
Of the 285 subjects int the RT Only arm, 256 subjects (90%) received between >90% and 110% of the 
intended RT dose, 22 subjects (8%) received ≤ 90% of the intended dose and 7 (3%) subjects did not 
receive radiotherapy. Reasons for subjects receiving ≤ 90% was premature discontinuation due to 
worsening clinical status or radiological progression. Reasons for not receiving radiotherapy were 
subject´s refusal (N=5) and disease progression and other reason (N=1 each). 
XXI  Temozolomide Exposure, Monotherapy Phase 
Generally more than 70% of subjects received temozolomide approximately every 28 days according 
to the protocol. 
Across all 6 cycles, the monotherapy temozolomide dose was reduced for 4% to 9% of the subjects 
and dosing was delayed for 13% to 25% of the subjects. During cycles 1 and 2, the dose reductions 
and delays were primarily for nontreatment related reasons, such as physician subject, and/or 
institutional errors, administrative issues, subject’s personal reasons and subject’s health, During 
cycles 3-6, the percentage of subjects with dose reductions and delays were primarily due to 
hematological toxicity. While the percentage of dose delays due to hematological toxicity increased in 
22/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the later cycles, the protocol-specified dose could be delivered on schedule for the majority of subjects 
during the monotherapy phase. 
Adverse events 
Adverse events during the Concomitant Phase 
Adverse events were reported in 91% and 92 % of the subjects in the RT Only and RT+TMZ arms, 
respectively. Severe/life threatening events were reported in 26% and 28% of the subjects in the RT 
Only and RT+TMZ arms, respectively. 
The most frequently reported adverse events and their incidence in the RT Only and RT +TMZ arms 
respectively were: alopecia (63% vs. 69%), fatigue, (49% vs. 54 %), nausea (16% vs. 36%), vomiting 
(6% vs. 20 %), headache (17% vs. 19%), rash (15% vs. 19%), anorexia (9% vs. 19%) and constipation 
(6% vs. 18%).  
Severe /life-threatening AEs were reported infrequently during the concomitant phase. The most 
common, with their incidence in the RT Only and RT+TMZ arms, respectively, were: fatigue (5% vs. 
7%), convulsions (3% vs. 3%), thrombocytopenia (0 vs. 3%) and headache (4% vs. 2%). 
Adverse events during the Monotherapy phase 
Adverse  events  were  reported  in  92%  of  the  patients  during  the  monotherapy  phase,  with  37% 
reporting  severe/life-threatening  events,  consistent  with  the  safety  profile  seen  in  the  concomitant 
phase.  
Most adverse events were mild or moderate in severity (CTC grade 1 or 2). The most common AEs 
were:  fatigue:  (61%),  alopecia  (55%),  nausea  (49%),  vomiting  (29%),  anorexia  (27%)  headache 
(23%), constipation (22%), rash (13%), convulsions (11%) and diarrhea (10%). 
The most common severe/life-threatening AEs were: fatigue (9%), headache (4%), thrombocytopenia 
(4%), convulsions (3%), infection (3%), weakness (2%), confusion (2%), dysphasia (2%), hemiparesis 
(2%), neutropenia (2%), vomiting (2%) and deep venous thrombosis NOS (2%). 
Adverse events with Temozolomide for the Concomitant and Monotherapy Phases Combined 
Most subjects in the RT+TMZ arm reported AEs. 
Considering the temozolomide concomitant and monotherapy treatment, for both treatment phases 
together, the most frequent treatment-related adverse events were alopecia (72%), fatigue (71%), 
nausea (57%), vomiting (37%), anorexia (32%), headache (30%), constipation (30%), rash (26%), 
23/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
convulsions (13%), diarrhea (13%), stomatitis (13%), blurred vision (11%), and thrombocytopenia 
(10%). 
Additionally, 49% of subject reported severe/life-threatening AEs. The most common of these AEs 
were fatigue (13%), convulsions (6%), headache (5%) and thrombocytopenia (5%). 
Two confirmed cases of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) were noted, one in each treatment 
arm. Also two possible cases of PCP were noted, one in both arms.  
Neutropenia Grad 3/4 based on AE and/or laboratory results occurred in 8% of the subjects in the 
RT+TMZ arm. Thrombocytopenia Grade 3/4 based on AE and/or laboratory results, occured in 14 %: 
No subjects in the RT Only arm reported neutropenia or thrombocytopenia Grade 3 or 4. Lymphocyte 
counts were not collected. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Of the 573 patients randomized to the pivotal trial, 480 subjects died at time of database lock; most of 
the subjects had died due to disease progression. In six subjects treated with temozolomide, death was 
attributed by the investigators to, or temporally associated with, serious adverse events (SAEs) 
considered at least possibly related to temozolomide, and occurred within 30 days of stopping therapy. 
These included pulmonary infection, respiratory insufficiency, aspiration pneumonitis and 
thrombocytopenia, pneumonia and coma, decreased consciousness and pneumonia. Thrombosis in the 
leg and a lung embolism were considered by SPRI to be possibly contributory in an additional 
patient’s death.  
Discontinuations due to hematological toxicity were observed in 0,4% (N=1) of RT Only treated patients and in 
9% (N=26) of RT + TMZ treated patients (5,2% for hematological and 3,8% for non-hematological toxicity). 
XXII  Laboratory findings 
Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia are the dose-limiting toxicities for temozolomide. When the 
laboratory results and reports for adverse events were combined, Grade 3 and Grade 4 neutrophil 
abnormalities, including neutropenic events were observed in 8% of patients and Grade 3 or grade 4 
platelet abnormalities, including thrombocytopenic events were observed in 14% of patients treated 
with temozolomide during the trial.  
Elevated SGPT level occurred with an incidence of 5% in the RT+TMZ arm across the concomitant 
and monotherapy phases; however, increases in liver transaminases were infrequent in the relapsed 
glioma studies included in the original marketing application. During the concomitant phase of the 
EORTC study, the incidence of elevated SGPT level was 4% in the RT+TMZ arm compared with 2% 
in the RT Only arm. Grade 3/4 "liver function abnormalities” in the RT+TMZ arm were more 
common during the concomitant phase (3%) than during the monotherapy phase (1%). In the RT Only 
arm, there was one subject with a Grade 3 "liver function abnormality" (elevated SGPT level). In 
addition to chemotherapy and radiotherapy, patients in the RT+TMZ arm were receiving multiple 
concomitant medications, including PCP prophylaxis during the concomitant phase and antiemetic 
therapy during the monotherapy phase. Some of these concomitant medications are also associated 
with abnormal liver function tests, therefore conclusions regarding the relationship of these laboratory 
abnormalities to temozolomide treatment are difficult.  
XXIII  Safety in special populations 
No differences were observed concerning influence of age of patients on the safety of temozolomide. 
Among subjects receiving RT+TMZ, more female subjects than male subjects reported alopecia (78% 
vs 64%), nausea (50% vs 29%), anorexia (29 vs 14%), vomiting (25% vs 17%) and radiation injury 
(12% vs 4%). 
Discussion of safety 
24/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  safety  profile  of  temozolomide  is  well  known  from  other  clinical  trials  and  from  the  clinical 
experience of treatment of patients with GBM showing recurrence or progression. The overall pattern 
of  events  during  the  monotherapy  phase  was  consistent  with  the  known  safety  profile  of 
temozolomide. 
The dose-limiting factor for temozolomide is hematological toxicity. No medical important new safety 
findings were made during the trial. The dosage used for the monotherapy treatment phase during the 
trial is consistent with the recommended dosage for the licensed indication, treatment of advanced 
GBM. It was to be expected that frequency of adverse events was higher in the RT+TMZ arm than in 
the RT Only arm. PCP prophylaxis was required during the concomitant phase and is recommended 
when temozolomide is administered with radiotherapy. This is already reflected in Section 4.4 of the 
SPC. 
Benefit – risk assessment 
The  results  of  the  EORTC  trial  have  demonstrated  a  significant  efficacy  for  temozolomide 
administrated as concomitant and subsequent monotherapy for the treatment of patients suffering from 
newly diagnosed GBM. 
Concerning  the  investigated  clinical  endpoints  of  overall  survival  and  progression  free  survival, 
clinical  benefit  was  shown  for  the  RT  +  TMZ  arm  in  comparison  to  the  RT  Only  arm:  The  2-year 
survival for the trial arm was 26% in comparison to 10% for the control arm. Median progression free 
survival  was  improved  in  the  trial  arm:  6,9  months  for  patients  with  RT  + TMZ treatment  and 4,98 
months for patients with RT Only therapy. For the indication of GBM with a poor prognosis, this is a 
small  but  relevant  clinical  benefit.  Side  effects  and  toxicity  of  treatment  are  well  known  and  are 
acceptable. 
25/25 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
