SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR TENKASI (ORITAVANCIN) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tenkasi. The RMP details important 
risks of Tenkasi, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Tenkasi’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Tenkasi’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Tenkasi should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Tenkasi should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Tenkasi's 
RMP. 
I. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Tenkasi is authorised for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections 
(ABSSSI) in adults (see SmPCs for the full indication) and also for the treatment of acute bacterial 
skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in paediatric patients aged 3 months and older (only for 
400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion). It contains oritavancin as the active 
substance and it is given by intravenous infusion (400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion, and 1200 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion as new formulation 
proposed) administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Tenkasi’s benefits can be found in Tenkasi’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/tenkasi-previously-orbactiv 
II.  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE 
OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS  
Important risks of Tenkasi, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Tenkasi’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.A. List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Tenkasi are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Tenkasi. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on 
the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the 
long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important Identified Risks 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing Information 
Hypersensitivity and histamine-like infusion reactions 
Pseudomembranous colitis / Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea 
(CDAD) 
Osteomyelitis 
None 
II.B.  Summary of important risks 
Important Identified Risk: Allergic reactions (Hypersensitivity and histamine-like infusion reactions) 
Serious allergic reactions (e.g., rash, itching, redness, problems 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
with breathing) have been seen following treatment with 
medicine 
oritavancin. In a clinical study, 7 out of 100 patients treated with 
oritavancin had an allergic reaction, compared with 14 out of 100 
patients who took vancomycin. Patients who had an allergic 
reaction following a glycopeptide other than oritavancin are likely 
to also be allergic to oritavancin (this is referred to as cross-
sensitivity). 
Known hypersensitivity to this class of antibiotics. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
- SmPC section 4.3 Contraindications 
- SmPC section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
- SmPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
The PL of the concerned products is in line with the information 
contained in the SmPC previously described. Such information is 
given in the following sections of the PL: 
- PL Section 2 What you need to know before you take  
  You must not be given 
  Warnings and precautions 
- PL Section 4 Possible side effects  
Legal status: prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
Important Potential Risks: Antibiotic-associated diarrhea/infectious diarrhoea [Pseudomembranous colitis 
/ Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD)] 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Antibiotic-associated diarrhoea refers to diarrhoea that develops in a 
person who is taking or recently took antibiotics. Some antibiotics 
can decrease the levels of protective bacteria normally found in the 
gut, and when this happens, harmful bacteria may be able to multiply 
and cause symptoms such as cramping pain, fever, and diarrhoea, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
sometimes occurring more than 2 months after receiving antibiotic 
treatment. One of the most serious causes of antibiotic associated 
diarrhoea is infection with a bacterium called Clostridium difficile.  
Antibiotic-associated diarrhoea has been reported with oritavancin. 
Patients who experience prolonged or severe diarrhoea following 
their treatment with oritavancin should contact their healthcare 
provider. Appropriate treatment should be considered. 
Patients with the following factors are at risk of antibiotic-associated 
diarrhea / infectious diarrhoea: 1) compromised immune system; 2) 
older age; 3) serious illness; 4) extended hospital stay; 5) extended 
course and / or multiple antibiotic treatment; 6) presence of a 
nasogastric tube; and 7) anti-ulcer medications. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
- SmPC section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
- SmPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
The PL of the concerned products is in line with the information 
contained in the SmPC previously described. Such information is 
given in the following sections of the PL: 
- PL Section 2 What you need to know before you take  
  Warnings and precautions 
- PL Section 4 Possible side effects 
Legal status: prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
Important Potential Risks: Infection or inflammation of the bone or bone marrow (Osteomyelitis) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
More cases of osteomyelitis (infection in the bone) were reported 
with oritavancin than with vancomycin. Patients should be 
monitored for signs and symptoms of osteomyelitis following 
treatment with oritavancin. If osteomyelitis is diagnosed or 
suspected, alternative antibiotic treatment should be started. 
Oritavancin is not approved for the treatment of bone or bone 
marrow infections. Patients suspected or confirmed to have 
underlying bone or bone marrow infections should receive 
appropriate treatment. 
During the clinical development, patients with diabetes mellitus at 
baseline had a higher rate of osteomyelitis than did non-diabetic 
patients; the incidence of osteomyelitis was higher in oritavancin-
treated patients with baseline peripheral vascular disease vs patients 
without peripheral vascular disease. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
- SmPC section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
- SmPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
The PL of the concerned products is in line with the information 
contained in the SmPC previously described. Such information is 
given in the following sections of the PL: 
- PL Section 2 What you need to know before you take  
- Warnings and precautions 
- PL Section 4 Possible side effects  
Legal status: prescription only medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Tenkasi. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Tenkasi. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
