SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Tenofovir  Disoproxil  Mylan  245  mg  (Tenofovir 
Disoproxil) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg. 
The RMP details important risks of tenofovir disoproxil, how these risks can be minimised, and 
how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  tenofovir’s  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package 
leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg should be read in the context 
of  all  the  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Tenofovir 
Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg’s RMP. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg is authorised for HIV-1 infection in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products, is also indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adolescents, 
with NRTI resistance or toxicities precluding the use of first line agents, aged 12 to < 18 years. 
Tenofovir Disoproxil 245 mg film-coated tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis 
B in adults with compensated liver disease, with evidence of active viral replication, persistently 
elevated  serum  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  levels  and  histological  evidence  of  active 
inflammation and/or fibrosis, evidence of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus, decompensated 
liver disease and indicated in treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adolescents 12 to < 18 years of 
age  with  compensated  liver  disease  and  evidence  of  immune  active  disease,  i.e.  active  viral 
replication,  persistently  elevated  serum  ALT  levels  and  histological  evidence  of  active 
inflammation and/or fibrosis It contains tenofovir disoproxil as the active substance and it is given 
by oral route of administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg’s benefits can be 
found in Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, 
available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage1. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg, together with measures to minimise such 
risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg’s risks, 
are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
1 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/tenofovir-disoproxil-mylan 
 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg is not 
yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken by patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 
245  mg.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is 
possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine/use in 
special patient populations etc.). 
Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Kidney problems (Renal toxicity) 
•  Reduction  in  bone  density  and  bone 
problems  due  to  kidney  disease  (Bone 
events 
renal 
tubulopathy/loss of bone mineral density) 
proximal 
due 
to 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Summary of important risks 
•  None 
•  Limited  safety  information  on  use  during 
pregnancy and breast-feeding 
•  Limited  safety  information  on  use  in 
patients with kidney impairment 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Important identified risks 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measure(s) 
Important identified risks 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
tubule 
(proximal 
Kidney problems (Renal toxicity) 
Renal  failure,  renal  impairment,  elevated 
creatinine in blood, low levels of phosphate in 
blood  (hypophosphatemia)  and  damage  to 
renal 
cells 
kidney 
tubulopathy  [including  Fanconi  syndrome]) 
have  been  reported  with  the  use  of  tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate (TDF) in clinical trials and 
in the postmarketing setting 
Risk factors for renal events include advanced 
HIV  disease  (low  CD4  count  at  the  start  of 
low  weight,  older  age,  renal 
treatment), 
impairment  before  starting  therapy,  use  of 
other medicines that are damaging to kidneys, 
high  blood  pressure,  and  also  being  infected 
with hepatitis C virus. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Routine 
activities 
risk  minimization 
recommending  specific  clinical  measures  to 
address the risk: 
SmPC section 4.4: Recommendation for renal 
function monitoring and guidance on when to 
interrupt or discontinue TDF. 
SmPC section 4.4: Guidance that, for pediatric 
is 
patients,  a  multidisciplinary  approach 
recommended 
the 
benefit/risk  balance  of  treatment,  decide  the 
appropriate monitoring and consider the need 
for supplementation 
Reduction 
in  bone  density  and  bone 
problems due to kidney disease (Bone events 
due  to  proximal  renal  tubulopathy/loss  of 
bone mineral density) 
In the postmarketing setting,  there have been 
rare  occurrences  of  damage  to  kidney  tubule 
cells  associated  with  TDF  therapy  leading  to 
bone softening (osteomalacia) with bone pain 
and sometimes resulting in fractures. 
Thinning of bones (decreases in bone mineral 
density [BMD]) has been observed in patients 
treated  with  TDF  during  clinical 
trials.  
However, the clinical significance is unknown 
as  no  increase  in  fracture  rates  has  been 
observed. 
to  adequately  weigh 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measure(s) 
Missing information 
Risk minimization measure(s) 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Missing information 
Risk minimization measure(s) 
impaired 
to  adequately  weigh 
HIV infection is known to be associated with 
bone disease. 
Reduced  BMD 
calcium 
and 
metabolism  is  known  to  be  associated  with 
cirrhosis  of  the  liver.  A  number  of  small 
studies  have  shown  that  people  with  liver 
cirrhosis  related  to  hepatitis  B  or  hepatitis  C 
infection  have  reduced  BMD  and 
virus 
reductions  in  BMD  are  correlated  with  the 
severity of liver disease. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Routine 
activities 
risk  minimization 
recommending  specific  clinical  measures  to 
address the risk: 
SmPC  section  4.4:  Guidance  on  action  to  be 
taken  if  bone  abnormalities  are  suspected 
SmPC section 4.4: Guidance that, for pediatric 
is 
patients,  a  multidisciplinary  approach 
recommended 
the 
benefit/risk  balance  of  treatment,  decide  the 
appropriate monitoring and consider the need 
for supplementation 
Limited  safety  information  on  use  during 
pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC sections 4.6 and 5.3 
PL section 2 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
Limited  safety 
patients with kidney impairment 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.2 
PL sections 2 
activities 
risk  minimization 
Routine 
recommending  specific  clinical  measures  to 
address the risk: 
SmPC  section  4.4:  Recommendation  for 
dosage  adjustment  and  close  monitoring  of 
renal function if TDF is used in an adult patient 
with creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min. The use 
of  TDF  is  not  recommended  in  pediatric 
patients with renal impairment. 
information  on  use 
in 
Post-authorisation development plan 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Tenofovir Disoproxil Mylan 245 mg. 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry. 
Purpose of study: To collect information on the risk of birth defects in patients exposed to tenofovir 
during pregnancy. 
 
 
 
