EMA/693512/2016 
EMEA/H/C/004049 
EPAR summary for the public 
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 
tenofovir disoproxil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan. It 
explains how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its 
conditions of use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Tenofovir disoproxil 
Mylan. 
For practical information about using Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan, patients should read the package 
leaflet or contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan and what is it used for? 
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is used to treat adults and adolescents from 12 years of age infected with 
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV 1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome (AIDS). Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is used in combination with other HIV medicines. In 
adolescents (from 12 to 18 years of age) its use is only for those who cannot be treated with other 
first-line nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI). For patients who have taken medicines to 
treat HIV infection before, doctors should only prescribe Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan once they have 
looked at the antiviral medicines the patient has taken before or the likelihood of the virus’s response 
to antiviral medicines. 
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is also used to treat chronic (long-term) hepatitis B virus infection in adults 
and adolescents from 12 years of age. It is used in patients with liver damage but whose liver is still 
working properly (compensated liver disease). In adults, it can also be used for those patients with 
liver damage whose liver is not working properly (decompensated liver disease) and those patients 
who do not respond to treatment with lamivudine (another medicine for hepatitis B).  
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan contains the active substance tenofovir disoproxil. It is a ‘generic medicine’. 
This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
called Viread. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
How is Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan used? 
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by 
a doctor who has experience in the treatment of HIV infection or chronic hepatitis B.  
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is available as tablets (245 mg) to be taken by mouth. The usual dose is 
one tablet taken once a day with food. The dose may need to be reduced or the medicine given less 
often in patients who have moderately or severely reduced kidney function. For more information, see 
the package leaflet. 
How does Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan work? 
The active substance in this medicine, tenofovir disoproxil, is a ‘prodrug’ that is converted into 
tenofovir in the body.  
Tenofovir is a nucleotide reverse-transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI). In HIV infection, it blocks the activity 
of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced by HIV that allows it to reproduce itself in the cells it has 
infected. Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan, taken in combination with other antiviral medicines, reduces the 
amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan does not cure HIV 
infection or AIDS, but it may hold off damage to the immune system and the development of infections 
and diseases associated with AIDS. 
Tenofovir also interferes with the action of an enzyme produced by the hepatitis-B virus called ‘DNA 
polymerase’, which is involved in the formation of viral DNA. Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan stops the virus 
making DNA and prevents it from multiplying and spreading. 
How has Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan been studied? 
Because Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests 
to determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Viread. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan? 
Because Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to 
be bioequivalent to Viread. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Viread, the benefit outweighs 
the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan be approved for use 
in the EU. 
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan  
EMA/693512/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan? 
The company that makes Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan will also ensure that all doctors who are expected 
to prescribe or use the medicine are provided with educational materials containing important safety 
information, particularly on the risks and precautions relating to kidney function and the bones.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet.   
Other information about Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan on 8 December 2016. 
The full EPAR for Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the 
EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2016. 
Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan  
EMA/693512/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
