21 July 2016 
EMA/532453/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva  
International non-proprietary name: tenofovir disoproxil 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004120/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 10 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 12 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 12 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development ................................................. 12 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 13 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 13 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 15 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 16 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 16 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 16 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 16 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 17 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 22 
2.4.4. Additional data ................................................................................................ 22 
2.4.5. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 22 
2.4.6. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 22 
2.4.7. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 22 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 23 
2.6. PSUR submission ............................................................................................... 25 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 25 
2.8. Product information ............................................................................................ 26 
2.8.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 26 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 26 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 26 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 2/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AUC0-T 
AUC0-∞  
AUC0-T/∞  
Cumulative area under the plasma concentration time curve calculated from 0 to TLQC using the 
linear trapezoidal method. 
Area under the plasma concentration time curve extrapolated to infinity, calculated as AUCT + 
ĈLQC/λz, where ĈLQC is the estimated concentration at time TLQC. 
Relative percentage of AUCT with respect to AUC∞ 
ASMF 
BCS  
CHMP    
Cmax 
EC 
EU  
GC   
GMP 
HDPE 
HPLC     
ICH      
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use  
Maximum observed plasma concentration 
European Commission 
European Union 
Gas Chromatography 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
High Density Polyethylene 
High performance liquid chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
IPC 
In-process control 
ICP-AES  
Inductively coupled atomic emission spectrometry 
IR 
KF  
LDPE 
MAH 
Infrared 
Karl Fischer titration 
Low density polyethylene 
Marketing Authorisation holder 
Ph. Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
RH 
RT 
Relative Humidity 
Retention time 
SmPC   
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Thalf  
TLIN  
TLQC 
Tmax 
TSE 
USP 
TLIN  
Terminal elimination half-life, calculated as ln(2)/ λz 
Time point where log-linear elimination phase begins λz Apparent elimination rate constant, 
estimated by linear regression of the terminal linear portion of the log concentration versus time 
curve 
Time of last observed quantifiable plasma concentration 
Time of maximum observed plasma concentration; if it occurs at more than one time point, 
Tmax is defined as the first time point with this value 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Time point where log-linear elimination phase begins λz Apparent elimination rate constant, 
estimated by linear regression of the terminal linear portion of the log concentration versus time 
curve 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 3/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Zentiva k.s. submitted on 4 September 2015 an application for marketing authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 20 November 2014. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
refers to a reference product for which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in in the Union on the 
basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indications: 
HIV-1 infection 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for the 
treatment of HIV-1 infected adults. 
In adults, the demonstration of the benefit of tenofovir disoproxil in HIV-1 infection is based on results of one 
study in treatment-naïve patients, including patients with a high viral load (> 100,000 copies/ml) and studies in 
which tenofovir disoproxil was added to stable background therapy (mainly tritherapy) in antiretroviral 
pre-treated patients experiencing early virological failure (< 10,000 copies/ml, with the majority of patients 
having < 5,000 copies/ml). 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is also indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adolescents, with NRTI 
(nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor) resistance or toxicities precluding the use of first line agents, aged 
12 to < 18 years. 
The choice of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva to treat antiretroviral-experienced patients with HIV-1 infection 
should be based on individual viral resistance testing and/or treatment history of patients. 
Hepatitis B infection 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with: 
-  compensated liver disease, with evidence of active viral replication, persistently elevated serum alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and/or fibrosis (see section 
5.1). 
-  evidence of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
-  decompensated liver disease (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adolescents 12 to < 18 years 
of age with: 
-  compensated liver disease and evidence of immune active disease, i.e. active viral replication, persistently 
elevated serum ALT levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and/or fibrosis (see sections 
4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Viread, 245 mg, film-coated tablet instead of 
non-clinical and clinical unless justified otherwise. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 4/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to the 
proposed indication. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force for not less 
than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Viread, 245 mg, film-coated tablet 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Gilead Sciences International Limited 
•  Date of authorisation: 05-02-2002 
• 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/01/200/001-002 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Viread, 245 mg, film-coated tablet 
Marketing authorisation holder: Gilead Sciences International Limited 
Date of authorisation: 05-02-2002 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/01/200/001-002 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Viread, 245 mg, film-coated tablet 
Marketing authorisation holder: Gilead Sciences International Limited 
Date of authorisation: 05-02-2002 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
−  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/01/200/001 
•  Bioavailability study numbers: TNI-P4-464 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 5/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
John Joseph Borg 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 4 September 2015.  
The procedure started on 1 October 2015. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 17 December 2015. The 
PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 07 January 2016. 
During the meeting on 28 January 2016, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent 
to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 28 January 2016. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 March 2016. 
The GCP inspections were requested by the CHMP and their outcome taken into consideration as part of the 
Safety/Efficacy assessment of the product. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions to 
all CHMP members on 02 May 2016.  
During the PRAC meeting on 13 May 2016, the PRAC agreed on a PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice 
to CHMP. 
During the CHMP meeting on 26 May 2016, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be addressed 
by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 20 June 
2016. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of outstanding 
issue to all CHMP members on 06 July 2016.  
During the meeting on 21 July 2016, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing authorisation to 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
In 1983, HIV was discovered, an accomplishment for which French scientists received the Nobel Prize for 
Medicine in 2008. In 1985, a serologic test for HIV became commercially available. HIV type 1, group M (HIV-1), 
the predominant cause of the AIDS epidemic, evolved from a virus that crossed the species barrier from 
chimpanzees to humans. The earliest retrospective diagnosis of HIV-1 infection was made from a serum 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 6/29 
 
  
  
specimen collected in 1959 in Kinshasa, capital of what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo. Two additional 
but rare groups of HIV-1 (N and O) cause related zoonotic infections that are essentially restricted to central 
Africa. HIV-2; a second type of HIV rarely found outside western Africa, originated in sooty mangabeys. 
Although the epidemic appears to have begun in central Africa, HIV prevalence is now highest in southern Africa; 
the Republic of South Africa alone is home to about one sixth of the world’s HIV-infected persons. The reasons 
for this geographic distribution are not entirely clear, but biological factors, such as lack of male circumcision and 
rates of other genital (especially ulcerative) infections that facilitate HIV transmission, and social factors (some 
of which may have been influenced by the end of apartheid), such as frequent partner change and concurrent 
sexual partnerships, migration, and commercial sex, likely play a role. 
Tenofovir disoproxil is a first in class of nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI).  Tenofovir tablets 
(containing 245 mg of tenofovir disoproxil, equivalent to 300 mg tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or 136 mg of 
tenofovir) was first approved in United States (US) (26 October 2001), European Union (EU) (5 February 2002), 
and other countries worldwide for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in 
combination with other antiretroviral (ARV) medicinal products in infected adults age 18 years and older. 
Tenofovir was subsequently approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in EU (23 April 2008) and US. 
Scientific advances resulted in the development of lifesaving, albeit not curative, treatment for HIV. Beginning 
with the approval of azidothymidine or zidovudine in 1987, the development of antiretroviral drugs and the 
design of simple and standardized approaches for therapy in the developing world constituted a public health 
triumph. By the end of 2009, >5 million persons in low- and middle-income countries were accessing ART, 
unimaginable just a few years before and made possible through the use of generic drugs, price reductions for 
brand-name drugs, and efforts of international donors through different initiatives.   
Tenofovir film-coated tablets are indicated in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for the 
treatment of HIV-1 infected children aged 6-12 years, adolescents 12-18 years, and adults. 
Tenofovir film-coated tablets are also indicated for the treatment of HIV-1-infected patients, with NRTI 
resistance or toxicities precluding the use of first line agents. 
Tenofovir film-coated tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adolescents 
compensated liver disease and evidence of immune active disease, i.e. active viral replication, persistently 
elevated serum ALT levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and / or fibrosis 
Tenofovir film-coated tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with: 
• 
compensated liver disease, with evidence of active viral replication, persistently elevated 
serum-alanine-aminotransferase (ALT) levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and / or 
fibrosis; 
• 
decompensated liver disease. 
The generic medicinal products serve public health need and the applicant developed one version of generic 
medicinal product against reference medicinal product Viread (MAH Gilead Sciences International Limited). 
Viread was authorised in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier is as film-coated tablet containing 245 mg 
of Tenofovir disoproxil. Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva if proven identical in terms of qualitative and quantitative 
composition of the active substances (Tenofovir disoproxil) is expected to perform identically in vivo within the 
clinical setting. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 7/29 
 
  
  
The applicant applied for all the indication of the reference product.  The pharmaceutical form is film-coated 
tablet containing 245 mg of tenofovir disoproxil. Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva tablets should be taken once daily, 
orally with food. 
All of the used excipients of Tenofovir disoproxil phosphate Zentiva are well known regarding the safety and 
applicability in formulation of pharmaceuticals. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film coated tablets containing 245 mg of tenofovir disoproxil (as phosphate) 
as active substance.  
Other ingredients are: 
Core tablet: Lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, povidone and magnesium 
stearate 
Film coat: Lactose monohydrate, hypromellose, titanium dioxide, triacetin and Indigo Carmine Aluminum Lake 
The product is available in high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles with polypropylene child-resistant caps and 
induction heat sealing (with aluminium foil) as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of tenofovir disoproxil phosphate is 
9-((R)-2-bis(((isopropoxycarbonyl)oxy)methoxy)phosphinyl)-methoxy)propyl)adenine phosphate 
corresponding to the molecular formula C19H30N5O10P.H3PO4 and has a relative molecular mass of 617.44 
g/mol. It has the following structure: 
The active substance is a white to off-white crystalline powder, slightly hygroscopic and slightly soluble in 
aqueous media across the physiological pH range. Given the wet granulation process used to manufacture 
tablets and the rapid dissolution of the active substance from that formulation, particle size is not expected to 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 8/29 
 
  
  
 
 
affect product performance and is not controlled. A single polymorphic form has been observed which is 
routinely produced by the manufacturing process. There is one chiral centre which originates in one of the 
starting materials and is controlled in the active substance by chiral HPLC. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of the 
ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Tenofovir disoproxil phosphate is synthesized in five main steps using well-defined starting materials with 
acceptable specifications. One manufacturer is responsible for the production of an intermediate which is then 
converted to the active substance by a second manufacturer. The starting materials were re-defined during the 
procedure in order to ensure that enough of the process is documented in the dossier and carried out under 
GMP, resulting in addition of the second manufacturer. The single chiral centre is controlled in one of the starting 
materials and carries through unaltered to the active substance. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. Potential and actual impurities were well 
discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. A thorough assessment of potential mutagenic 
impurities was carried out and adequate controls have been put in place. The specifications and control methods 
for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. The characterisation of the 
active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on chemistry of new active 
substances. 
The active substance is packaged in double LDPE bags inside a drum. The materials comply with the EC directive 
2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, identity (IR), assay (HPLC), phosphoric acid 
assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), enantiomeric purity (chiral HPLC), residual solvents (GC), water content (KF), 
heavy metals (ICP-AES), and microbiological purity (Ph. Eur.). 
The mono-POC PMPA impurity present at higher than the qualification threshold according to ICH Q3A is a 
known metabolite and thus qualified. Other impurities are adequately controlled by the specifications. There are 
no controls for polymorphic form as only one crystalline form is known. The lack of control for particle size is 
acceptable given the solubility of the active substance in relevant media and its rapid dissolution profile from the 
tablets. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards 
used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from three production scale batches of the active substance are provided. The results are 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data on three production scale batches of active substance from the proposed manufacturers stored in 
the intended commercial package for up to 12 months under long term conditions (5±3 ºC) and for up to 6 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 9/29 
 
  
  
months under accelerated conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. Samples 
were tested for appearance, impurities, enantiomeric purity, water content and assay. The analytical methods 
used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. No significant changes to any of the measured 
parameters were observed under either storage condition and all remained within specification. 
Photostability testing following the ICH guideline Q1B and stress testing (high temperature, elevated humidity, 
acidic, basic and oxidising aqueous media) was performed on one batch. The active substance is not 
photosensitive but is sensitive to heat and extremely sensitive to heat and moisture. It degrades, mainly via 
hydrolysis, under all the aqueous conditions. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed suppliers is sufficiently 
stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 24 months at 5±3 oC in the proposed container. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva comes as oblong light blue film coated tablets. The aim was to develop a stable and 
robust formulation, bioequivalent to the reference product, Viread. A different active substance salt is used 
(phosphate rather than fumarate) which has been shown to be sufficiently stable. The phosphate salt is slightly 
less soluble in aqueous media than the fumarate salt but bioequivalence has been demonstrated clinically. The 
composition of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is based on the composition of the reference product with 
modifications to excipient content based on the experience of the finished product manufacturer. 
Tenofovir disoproxil phosphate is a BCS class III substance which is slightly hygroscopic and susceptible to 
hydrolysis under acidic and basic aqueous conditions. Nonetheless, given the formulation components, a wet 
granulation method was investigated and found to afford tablets within the desired specification for hydrolysis 
impurities. Various parameters for the granulation step were investigated and optimised to ensure adequate 
dissolution performance and flow parameters. 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur. standards. 
There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is included in section 
6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
The formulation used for the bioequivalence study is the same as that intended for marketing. Comparative 
dissolution profiles of Tenofovir Disoproxil and Viread in 0.1 N HCl and pH 4.5 and 6.8 buffer solutions were 
provided. Rapid dissolution (within 15 minutes) occurred for both products in all media with similar profiles. 
In section 4.2 of the SmPC, it is stated that in exceptional circumstances for patients with difficulty swallowing, 
the finished product can be administered following disintegration of the tablet in 100 ml of water, orange juice, 
or grape juice. Data was provided showing comparative disintegration times of Tenofovir Disoproxil Zentiva and 
Viread in all three media and demonstrating that disintegration occurs within 15 minutes in each case. Since 
tenofovir disoproxil is a BCS class III substance, it was considered that a clinical study to investigate relative 
bioequivalence was not necessary as membrane permeability rather than dissolution is likely to be the rate 
limiting step for absorption. 
Tenofovir disoproxil phosphate is equally soluble across the physiological pH range and all media tested afforded 
sink conditions. The dissolution conditions were therefore chosen based on data available in the public domain 
and other parameters optimised. Discriminatory power was investigated by comparing dissolution profiles of 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 10/29 
 
  
  
tablets made using different manufacturing parameters. Given the properties of the active substance, the 
method is considered to be sufficiently discriminatory. 
The primary packaging is an HDPE bottle with polypropylene child-resistant cap and induction heat sealing (with 
aluminium foil). The materials comply with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. A certificate has been submitted 
demonstrating compliance with ISO 8317:2015 for child resistance. The choice of the container closure system 
has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  five  main  steps:  blending  of  tenofovir  disoproxil  with  intra-granular 
excipients followed by granulation, drying and milling; blending with extra-granular excipients; compression; 
film-coating; packaging. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
Major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated by a number of studies on three production scale 
batches. It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product 
of  intended  quality  in  a  reproducible  manner.  The  in-process  controls  are  adequate  for  this  type  of 
manufacturing process and pharmaceutical form. 
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  this  kind  of  dosage  form  including 
appearance,  average  weight  (Ph.  Eur.),  water  content  (KF),  disintegration  (Ph.  Eur.),  dissolution  (UV 
spectrophotometry),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (Ph.  Eur.),  identification  (active  substance:  HPLC,  UV; 
phosphate: HPLC; titanium dioxide: colour reaction; Indigo Carmine Aluminium Lake: HPLC), assay (HPLC), 
impurities (HPLC) and microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.). 
Several impurities have limits above the qualification threshold but are also known metabolites. Limits have 
been set in line with the WHO international monograph, with wider limits at shelf-life given the observed 
degradation over time. The limits are considered justified. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with the 
ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities testing 
has been presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for three production scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data of three production scale batches of finished product stored for up to 12 months under long term 
conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH), up to 12 months under intermediate conditions (30 ºC / 65% RH) and for up to 6 
months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The 
batches of medicinal product are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary 
packaging proposed for marketing and were manufactured from two separate batches of active substance. 
Samples were tested for appearance, average tablet weight, dissolution, assay, water content, impurities and 
microbiological quality. The analytical procedures used are stability indicating. All parameters remained within 
specification under long term and intermediate conditions although an increase in impurities and decrease in 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 11/29 
 
  
  
assay was observed over time. Under accelerated conditions, several impurities and the assay value were out of 
specification after 6 months.  
In addition, one batch was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of New Drug 
Substances  and  Products.  Some  degradation  is  observed  over  time,  although  it  has  been  shown  that  the 
container closure system provides adequate protection from light. The batch was also exposed to aqueous acid, 
base, and oxidant and dry heat and was found to degrade under each set of conditions.  
An in-use stability study was also carried out on one batch of finished product over a 60 day period. The film 
coated tablets were found to be stable. The applicant has committed to repeating the study on a second batch 
towards the end of its shelf-life. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 15 months with the storage condition “Do not store 
above 30 oC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture” as stated in the SmPC (section 6.4) 
is acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose monohydrate is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition 
as those used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have 
a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined 
in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented to give reassurance on 
viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the CHMP 
recommends the following points for investigation: 
• 
The applicant should repeat the in-use stability study with a batch of finished product towards the end 
of its shelf life. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 12/29 
 
  
  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to generate 
additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical aspects of the 
SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been discussed and was 
considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
Pharmacology 
Tenofovir disoproxil phosphate is the phosphate salt of the prodrug tenofovir disoproxil. Tenofovir disoproxil is 
absorbed and converted to the active substance tenofovir, which is a nucleoside monophosphate (nucleotide) 
analogue.  Following oral administration, Tenofovir disoproxil is hydrolyzed enzymatically in the body to the 
active substance tenofovir-(9-[-(R)-2-{phosphonomethoxy}propyl]adenine) (PMPA) that exhibits anti-HIV 
activity. Tenofovir diphosphate is, an obligate chain terminator, by constitutively expressed cellular enzymes. 
Tenofovir diphosphate has an intracellular half-life of 10 hours in activated and 50 hours in resting peripheral 
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Tenofovir diphosphate inhibits HIV 1 reverse transcriptase and the HBV 
polymerase by direct binding competition with the natural deoxyribonucleotide substrate and, after 
incorporation into DNA, by DNA chain termination. Tenofovir diphosphate is a weak inhibitor of cellular 
polymerases α, β, and γ. At concentrations of up to 300 µmol/l, tenofovir has also shown no effect on the 
synthesis of mitochondrial DNA or the production of lactic acid in in vitro assays. 
Data pertaining to HIV 
HIV antiviral activity in vitro: The concentration of tenofovir required for 50% inhibition (EC50) of the wild type 
laboratory strain HIV 1IIIB is 1   6 µmol/l in lymphoid cell lines and 1.1 µmol/l against primary HIV-1 subtype B 
isolates in PBMCs. Tenofovir is also active against HIV 1 subtypes A, C, D, E, F, G, and O and against HIVBaL in 
primary monocyte/macrophage cells. Tenofovir shows activity in vitro against HIV 2, with an EC50 of 4.9 µmol/l 
in MT4 cells. 
Resistance: Strains of HIV 1 with reduced susceptibility to tenofovir and a K65R mutation in reverse 
transcriptase have been selected in vitro and in some patients (see Clinical efficacy and safety). Tenofovir 
disoproxil should be avoided in antiretroviral experienced patients with strains harbouring the K65R mutation 
(see section 4.4). In addition, a K70E substitution in HIV-1 reverse transcriptase has been selected by tenofovir 
and results in low-level reduced susceptibility to tenofovir. 
No primary pharmacodynamics studies, secondary pharmacodynamics studies, safety pharmacology studies or 
studies on pharmacodynamic drug interactions were conducted by the applicant.and the Applicant presented 
literature citations till 2014. 
Secondary Pharmacodynamics 
Studies investigating the secondary pharmacodynamics of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or phosphate were not 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 13/29 
 
  
  
performed by the Applicant. As this is a generic application, the CHMP considered it as acceptable. 
Pharmacokinetics  
Reference is made to the SmPC of the Reference product. 
Tenofovir disoproxil is a water soluble ester prodrug which is rapidly converted in vivo to tenofovir and 
formaldehyde. 
Tenofovir is converted intracellularly to tenofovir monophosphate and to the active component, tenofovir 
diphosphate. 
Absorption 
Following oral administration of tenofovir disoproxil to HIV infected patients, tenofovir disoproxil is rapidly 
absorbed and converted to tenofovir. Administration of multiple doses of tenofovir disoproxil with a meal to HIV 
infected patients resulted in mean (%CV) tenofovir Cmax, AUC, and Cmin values of 326 (36.6%) ng/ml, 3,324 
(41.2%) ng h/ml and 64.4 (39.4%) ng/ml, respectively. Maximum tenofovir concentrations are observed in 
serum within one hour of dosing in the fasted state and within two hours when taken with food. The oral 
bioavailability of tenofovir from tenofovir disoproxil in fasted patients was approximately 25%. Administration of 
tenofovir disoproxil with a high fat meal enhanced the oral bioavailability, with an increase in tenofovir AUC by 
approximately 40% and Cmax by approximately 14%. Following the first dose of tenofovir disoproxil in fed 
patients, the median Cmax in serum ranged from 213 to 375 ng/ml. However, administration of tenofovir 
disoproxil with a light meal did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of tenofovir. 
Distribution 
Following intravenous administration the steady state volume of distribution of tenofovir was estimated to be 
approximately 800 ml/kg. After oral administration of tenofovir disoproxil, tenofovir is distributed to most 
tissues with the highest concentrations occurring in the kidney, liver and the intestinal contents (preclinical 
studies). In vitro protein binding of tenofovir to plasma or serum protein was less than 0.7 and 7.2%, 
respectively, over the tenofovir concentration range 0.01 to 25 µg/ml. 
Biotransformation 
In vitro studies have determined that neither tenofovir disoproxil nor tenofovir are substrates for the CYP450 
enzymes. Moreover, at concentrations substantially higher (approximately 300-fold) than those observed in 
vivo, tenofovir did not inhibit in vitro drug metabolism mediated by any of the major human CYP450 isoforms 
involved in drug biotransformation (CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP2E1, or CYP1A1/2). Tenofovir disoproxil at a 
concentration of 100 µmol/l had no effect on any of the CYP450 isoforms, except CYP1A1/2, where a small (6%) 
but statistically significant reduction in metabolism of CYP1A1/2 substrate was observed. Based on these data, 
it is unlikely that clinically significant interactions involving tenofovir disoproxil and medicinal products 
metabolised by CYP450 would occur. 
Elimination 
Tenofovir is primarily excreted by the kidney by both filtration and an active tubular transport system with 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 14/29 
 
  
  
approximately 70   80% of the dose excreted unchanged in urine following intravenous administration. Total 
clearance has been estimated to be approximately 230 ml/h/kg (approximately 300 ml/min). Renal clearance 
has been estimated to be approximately 160 ml/h/kg (approximately 210 ml/min), which is in excess of the 
glomerular filtration rate. This indicates that active tubular secretion is an important part of the elimination of 
tenofovir. Following oral administration the terminal half-life of tenofovir is approximately 12 to 18 hours. 
Studies have established the pathway of active tubular secretion of tenofovir to be influx into proximal tubule 
cell by the human organic anion transporters (hOAT) 1 and 3 and efflux into the urine by the multidrug resistant 
protein 4 (MRP 4). 
Linearity/non-linearity 
The pharmacokinetics of tenofovir was independent of tenofovir disoproxil dose over the dose range 75 to 600 
mg and was not affected by repeated dosing at any dose level. 
The Applicant’s product is similar to the branded product Viread (Gilead Sciences Pty Ltd). It is identical in terms 
of qualitative and quantitative composition of the active substances (Tenofovir disoproxil) and is therefore 
expected to perform identically in vivo within the clinical setting. Reference is therefore made to the SmPC of the 
Reference product. 
Toxicology 
Non-clinical safety pharmacology studies reveal no special hazard for humans. Findings in repeated dose toxicity 
studies in rats, dogs and monkeys at exposure levels greater than or equal to clinical exposure levels and with 
possible relevance to clinical use include renal and bone toxicity and a decrease in serum phosphate 
concentration. Bone toxicity was diagnosed as osteomalacia (monkeys) and reduced bone mineral density 
(BMD) (rats and dogs). The bone toxicity in young adult rats and dogs occurred at exposures ≥ 5 fold the 
exposure in paediatric or adult patients; bone toxicity occurred in juvenile infected monkeys at very high 
exposures following subcutaneous dosing (≥ 40 fold the exposure in patients). Findings in the rat and monkey 
studies indicated that there was a substance-related decrease in intestinal absorption of phosphate with 
potential secondary reduction in BMD. 
Genotoxicity studies revealed positive results in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay, equivocal results in one of 
the strains used in the Ames test, and weakly positive results in an UDS test in primary rat hepatocytes. 
However, it was negative in an in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay. 
Oral carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice only revealed a low incidence of duodenal tumours at an extremely 
high dose in mice. These tumours are unlikely to be of relevance to humans. 
Reproductive studies in rats and rabbits showed no effects on mating, fertility, pregnancy or foetal parameters. 
However, tenofovir disoproxil reduced the viability index and weight of pups in peri postnatal toxicity studies at 
maternally toxic doses. 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No full Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the introduction of 
tenofovir disoproxil manufactured by Zentiva is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the 
combined sales volumes for all tenofovir disoproxil containing products and the exposure of the environment to 
the active substance. Thus, the environmental risk is expected to be similar and not increased. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 15/29 
 
  
  
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided. The 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data as well known for tenofovir disoproxil and thus new 
non-clinical data are not required.  The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product. The impurity profile has been discussed in the non-clinical overview. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided. The 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data as well known for tenofovir disoproxil and thus new 
non-clinical data are not required.  The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing tenofovir disoproxil phosphate to support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with a two-period, two-sequence, 
two-way cross-over, open label, randomized design under fed conditions. This study was the pivotal study for 
the assessment. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. GCP inspections in relation to the 
conduct of clinical trial with protocol number TNI-P4-464 were requested and conducted at the clinical BA/BE 
site and the bioanalytical laboratory in Canada. In accordance with the final integrated inspection report, issued 
on 4 December 2015, the trial is considered to have been conducted at an acceptable level of compliance with 
GCP and, where applicable, with GLP and the trial data are considered to be acceptable for use in the evaluation 
procedure. 
Exemption  
This is a generic application, for only one strength; hence a bio-waiver is not applicable.   
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 16/29 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 1.  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study TNI-P4-464, study title: Single Dose Crossover Comparative Bioavailability Study of Tenofovir 
Disoproxil 245 mg Tablets in Healthy Male and Female volunteers /Fed state 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a randomised, laboratory blinded, two-period, two-treatment, two-sequence, balanced, single dose, 
crossover comparative oral bioavailability study to establish comparative bioequivalence of  Tenofovir disproxil 
245 mg film coated tablets (test manufactured by Zentiva k.s.) and Viread 245 mg film coated tablets (MAH: 
Gilead Sciences Intl. Ltd. Ireland) in 36 healthy, adult male and female human subjects under fed conditions. 
The objective of the study was to compare the rate and extent of absorption of both products and to monitor the 
adverse events to ensure the safety of the subjects.  
The study centre was Algorithme Pharma Inc. Quebec Canada  
Based on the randomised schedule and following an overnight fast of at least 10 hours subjects received a 
high-fat, high-calorie breakfast 30 minutes prior to drug administration.  
The meal was comprised of approximately 240 mL of whole milk, 2 large eggs, 4 ounces of hash brown potatoes 
(2 potato patties), 1 English muffin with approximately 4.5 g of butter and 2 strips of bacon. This meal was 
composed of 34 g of protein (136 calories), 71 g of carbohydrate (284 calories) and 57.5 g of fat (518 calories) 
for a total of 938 calories. The relative caloric content for each component corresponds to approximately 15%, 
30% and 55% for the protein, the carbohydrate and the fat, respectively. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 17/29 
 
  
  
 
Thirty minutes after the start of the breakfast, a single dose of the assigned formulation was administered with 
approximately 240 ml of water at ambient temperature, starting at 08:00, to one subject per minute. Water was 
allowed ad libitum until 1 hour pre-dose and beginning 1 hour after drug administration. 
Subjects fasted for at least 4 hours following drug administration, after which a standardized lunch was served. 
A supper and a light snack were also served at appropriate times thereafter, but not before 9 hours after dosing. 
Subjects were confined to the clinical facility from at least 10 hours prior to dosing of the investigational product 
until after the 72-hour blood sample collection in each study period. The two periods were separated by a 
wash-out phase of at least 14 days.  
In each study period, 21 blood samples were collected. The first blood sample was collected prior to drug 
administration while the others were collected up to 72 hours after drug administration. 
Test and reference products  
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablet manufactured by Zentiva k.s. (batch No. P02092014) 
has been compared to Viread 245 mg film-coated tablet manufactured by Gilead Sciences (Batch No: 
13VR040D). 
Table 2.  Identity of Investigational Products 
Drug Code: 
Test 
Reference 
Formulation: 
Tenofovir Disoproxil  
Viread  
245 mg film-coated tablet 
245 mg film-coated tablet 
Manufacturer: 
Zentiva, k.s., Turkey 
Marketing Authorization 
Holder: 
N/AP 
Batch No.: 
Manufacturing Date: 
Expiry Date: 
P02092014 
04.09.2014 
18.04.2015 
Measured Content: 
102% 
Gilead Sciences Intl. Ltd., 
Ireland 
Gilead Sciences 
International Limited, 
Cambridge, CB21 6GT, 
United Kingdom 
13VR040D 
N/AV 
03/2018 
98% 
Population studied 
36 healthy adult male and female human subjects (11 male and 25 female) were enrolled as per the protocol 
whilst 35 subjects completed both study periods.  
One (3%) subject was withdrawn from the study due to emesis within the restriction period; 35 (97%) subjects 
completed the study. 
Subject 012 (19 years old, female) was withdrawn from the study on 26 October 2014 after dosing of Period 1 
due to emesis within the restriction period; this subject experienced a gastrointestinal adverse event (vomiting 
of moderate intensity) that could have had an impact on her pharmacokinetic profile; she received only the Test. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 18/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 3.  Subject disposition 
For post-dose samples, time deviations that were equal to or greater than 2 minutes were adjusted in the 
pharmacokinetic analysis to reflect actual sampling times. The other time deviations were considered to have a 
negligible impact on the assessment of bioequivalence and were not accounted for in the calculation of the 
pharmacokinetic parameters. 
For the sample for which the exact collection time was inconclusive, the scheduled time was used in the 
statistical analysis without any adjustment. 
The protocol deviations reported for the subjects included in the analysis were judged to have no significant 
impact on the bioequivalence assessment or subject’s safety. 
Main inclusion criteria: 
Male and female volunteers, light-, non- or ex-smokers, of at least 18 years of age with a body mass index 
greater than or equal to 18.50 and below 30.00 kg/m2 were included in the study. Subjects were in good health 
as determined by a medical history, complete physical examination (including vital signs), and the usual clinical 
laboratory tests (general biochemistry, haematology, urinalysis) including negative Human Immunodeficiency 
Virus (HIV), Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C tests as well as negative urine drug screening of alcohol and drugs of 
abuse. A 12-lead Electrocardiogram (ECG) was performed and must have been without clinically significant 
abnormality. For female volunteers, a HCG beta serum pregnancy test must have been negative). Beside 
enzyme-modifying drugs that were not allowed for 28 days, subjects were instructed not to take any 
prescription medications used with the intention to treat a condition for 28 days prior to the first dosing and 
during the study, unless judged differently by the Principal Investigator or designee. Systemic contraceptives 
and hormone replacement therapy were permitted. Subjects were also instructed not to take any 
over-the-counter products for the 7 days prior to the first dosing and during the study. They were specifically 
reminded that this included cold preparations, acetylsalicylic acid, vitamins and natural products used for 
therapeutic benefits and antacid preparations. If vitamins were used as nutritional supplements in 
non-therapeutic doses (judged by the Principal Investigator or designee), they may have been accepted, but 
they must have been stopped at least 48 hours prior to the first dosing and during the study. 
Analytical methods 
Blood samples were collected in pre-cooled K2 EDTA Vacutainers. As soon as possible following blood collection, 
samples were centrifuged at a temperature of 4°C nominal and at approximately 1500 g for 10 minutes. The 
plasma obtained was separated into duplicate polypropylene culture tubes, when feasible. The tubes were 
labelled with a code number that did not reveal formulation identity. The samples were frozen in an upright 
position and retained in the clinic's freezers at a temperature of -20°C nominal until sent on dry ice to the 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 19/29 
 
  
  
 
laboratory for assay. The time from blood sample collection to plasma aliquot storage should have been within 
90 minutes. 
The experimental samples were assayed for tenofovir at the analytical facility of Algorithme Pharma using a 
validated HPLC method with MS/MS detection. The subject sample analysis was performed from 2014/11/17 to 
2014/12/03, including re-assays and incurred samples. The lower limit of quantitation and upper limit of 
quantitation were 2.50 ng/ml and 800.00 ng/ml, respectively. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
Pharmacokinetics parameters:  Cmax, Tmax, AUC0-T, AUC0-∞, AUC0-T/∞, λZ and T1/2. 
Bioequivalence criteria; The 90% confidence interval of the relative mean AUC t and Cmax of the test and 
reference product should be at least 80.00% and not more than 125.00% for log-transformed data. 
Statistical methods 
The main absorption and disposition parameters were calculated using a non-compartmental approach with a 
log-linear terminal phase assumption. The trapezoidal rule was used to estimate area under the curve. The 
terminal phase estimation was based on maximizing the coefficient of determination. The pharmacokinetic 
parameters of this trial were Cmax, Tmax, AUC0-T, AUC0-∞, AUC0-T/∞, λZ and Thalf. 
The statistical analysis was based on a parametric ANOVA model of the pharmacokinetic parameters; the 
two-sided 90% confidence interval of the ratio of geometric means for the Cmax, AUC0-T and AUC0-∞ was 
based on ln-transformed data; the Tmax was based on a non-parametric approach. 
ANOVA model: 
Fixed factors: sequence, period, treatment, subject (nested within sequence)  
Criteria for Bioequivalence: 
Statistical inference of tenofovir based on a bioequivalence approach using the following standards: 
The ratio of geometric LSmeans with corresponding 90% confidence interval calculated from the exponential of 
the difference between the Test and Reference product for the ln-transformed parameters Cmax and AUC0-T 
were all to be within the 80.00 to 125.00% bioequivalence range. 
Safety: Descriptive statistics was performed.  
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 20/29 
 
  
  
Results 
Table 4.  Pharmacokinetic parameters for Tenofovir 245mg  n=35 (non-transformed values) 
a median 
Table 5.  Statistical analysis for Tenofovir 245mg n=35 (ln-transformed values) 
a units are ng/mL for Cmax and ng·h/mL for AUC0-T 
Safety data 
A total of 36 subjects were randomized in the study, all of which received the Test (Tenofovir Disoproxil) and 35 
(97%) of which received the Reference (Viread). A total of 18 adverse events were reported by 11 of the 36 
(31%) subjects who participated in this study. Of these events, 11 occurred after administration of the Test and 
7 occurred after administration of the Reference. None of the adverse events reported during the study were 
judged to be both unexpected and drug-related. 
The incidence of AEs was similar for subjects dosed with the Test and Reference (22% vs. 14%, respectively). 
Drug-related AEs were reported with lower incidence (Test 17% and Reference 9%). The AEs were deemed mild 
(14/18, 78%) and moderate (4/18, 22%) in severity. No severe adverse events were observed during the study. 
The AE reported with the highest incidence was vomiting, which was experienced by three (8%) subjects dosed 
with the Test and one (3%) subject dosed with the Reference. Nausea was experienced by two (6%) subjects 
dosed with the Test and one (3%) subject dosed with the Reference, and venipuncture site bruise was 
experienced by two (6%) subjects following administration of only the Reference. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 21/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
No serious adverse events (SAE) and no deaths were reported for any of the subjects enrolled in this study. No 
subject was withdrawn by the Investigator for safety reasons. All the abnormal clinical laboratory values were 
marginally higher or lower than their normal ranges and none were considered clinically significant by the 
Investigator. Generally, the subjects presented normal findings during physical examinations in both treatment 
groups and there were no clinically significant abnormalities in vital signs for subjects in this study. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Tenofovir 245mg film coated tablets of Zentiva k.s.  Czech 
Republicis considered bioequivalent with Viread (Tenofovir) 245mg film coated tablets manufactured by Gilead 
Sciences Intl. Ltd. Ireland MA holder: Gilead Sciences UK. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.4.  Additional data 
No additional data is available. Dissolution studies have been presented to support the dosage form and these 
are assessed in the quality section. 
2.4.5.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.6.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The 90% confidence intervals for the ratios of test and reference product (least-squares means) derived from 
the analysis of log transformed pharmacokinetic parameters  AUC0-t and Cmax were within 80-125% 
acceptance range for Tenofovir. This is in line with the requirements of the Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1/Corr **). 
The two treatments were well tolerated by the subjects (in both periods) enrolled in the study. The adverse 
events mentioned above are all included in the SmPC. 
2.4.7.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Tenofovir 245 mg film coated tablets of Zentiva k.s. Czech 
Republic is considered bioequivalent with Viread (Tenofovir) 245 mg film coated tablets manufactured by Gilead 
Sciences Intl. Ltd. Ireland MA holder: Gilead Sciences UK. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 22/29 
 
  
  
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
•  Renal Toxicity 
•  Bone events due to proximal renal tubulopathy / loss of bone 
mineral density 
• 
• 
• 
Post-treatment hepatic flares in HBV mono-infected and HIV/HBV 
co-infected patients 
Interaction with didanosine 
Pancreatitis 
Important potential risks 
•  Development of resistance during long-term exposure in HBV 
infected patients 
Missing information 
•  Safety in children(including long-term safety) 
•  Safety in elderly patients 
•  Safety in pregnancy 
•  Safety in lactation 
•  Safety in patients with renal impairment 
•  Safety in patients with decompensated liver disease and CPT score 
>9 (including long-term safety) 
•  Safety in liver transplant recipients infected with HBV 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Not applicable. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Important identified risks:  
Sections 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.3 of 
Educational brochure for physicians 
Renal toxicity 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
SPC contain transparent warnings 
on this risk 
Sections 2 and 4 of PL advise 
patients on this risk. 
Page 23/29 
 
  
  
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Important identified risks:  
Sections 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.3 of 
N/A 
Bone events due to proximal renal 
tubulopathy/loss of bone mineral 
density 
SPC contain transparent warnings 
on this risk 
Sections 2 and 4 of PL advise 
patients on this risk. 
Important identified risks: 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of SPC 
N/A 
Post-treatment hepatic flares in 
contain transparent warnings on 
HBV monoinfected and HIV/ HBV 
this risk. 
coinfected patients 
Sections 2, 3 and 4 of PL advise 
patients on this risk. 
Important identified risks: 
Sections 4.4, 4. 5 and 4.8 of SPC 
N/A 
Interaction with didanosine 
contain transparent warnings on 
this risk. 
Sections 2 of PL advise patients on 
this risk. 
Important identified risks: 
Sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8 of SPC 
N/A 
Pancreatitis 
contain transparent warnings on 
this risk. 
Section 4 of PL advises patients on 
this risk. 
Important potential risks: 
Sections 4.1 and 5.1 of SPC contain 
N/A 
Development of resistance during 
transparent warnings on this risk. 
long-term exposure in HBV infected 
patients 
Missing information: 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 of SPC 
Educational brochure for physicians 
Safety in children (including 
long-term safety) 
contain transparent warnings on 
this risk. 
Section 2 advises patients on this 
risk. 
Missing information: 
Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.2 of 
N/A 
Safety in elderly patients 
SPC contain transparent warnings 
on this risk. 
Section 2 of PL advises patients on 
this risk. 
Missing information: 
Section 4.6 of SPC contains 
N/A 
Safety in pregnancy 
transparent warnings on this risk. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 24/29 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Section 2of PL advises patients on 
this risk. 
Missing information: 
Section 4.6 of SPC contains 
N/A 
Safety in lactation 
transparent warnings on this risk. 
Section 2of PL advises patients on 
this risk. 
Missing information: 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 of SPC 
Educational brochure for physicians 
Safety in patients with renal 
impairment 
contain transparent warnings on 
this risk. 
Section 2of PL advises patients on 
this risk. 
Missing information: 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8 of SPC contain 
N/A 
Safety in patients with 
transparent warnings on this risk. 
decompensated liver disease and 
Sections 2, 3 and 4 of PL advise 
CPT score >9 (including long-term 
patients on this risk. 
safety) 
Missing information: 
Sections 4.4 of SPC contain 
N/A 
Safety in liver transplant recipients 
infected with HBV 
transparent warnings on this risk. 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.0 is acceptable. The Applicant is in 
dialogue with the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR) and once agreements have been concluded, the 
participation to the APR will be reflected in the RMP.  
2.6.  PSUR submission 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 25/29 
 
  
  
 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant 
show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of 
the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of tenofovir disoproxil, 245 mg film coated tablet. The reference 
product, Viread, is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of HIV 
1 infected adults and adolescents as well as indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults and 
adolescents (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an 
adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and 
considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the 
applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was 
considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a two-period, two-treatment, two-sequence, balanced, 
single dose, crossover comparative bioequivalence study. The study design was considered adequate to 
evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. 
Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling times as well as wash-out period were adequate. The 
analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with Viread. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, 
AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of [range, e.g. 80.00 to 
125.00%]. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is favourable in the following indication: 
HIV 1 infection 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for the 
treatment of HIV 1 infected adults. 
In adults, the demonstration of the benefit of tenofovir disoproxil in HIV 1 infection is based on results of one 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 26/29 
 
  
  
study in treatment naïve patients, including patients with a high viral load (> 100,000 copies/ml) and studies in 
which tenofovir disoproxil was added to stable background therapy (mainly tritherapy) in antiretroviral pre- 
treated patients experiencing early virological failure (< 10,000 copies/ml, with the majority of patients having 
< 5,000 copies/ml). 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is also indicated for the treatment of HIV 1 infected adolescents, with NRTI 
resistance or toxicities precluding the use of first line agents, aged 12 to < 18 years. 
The choice of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva to treat antiretroviral experienced patients with HIV 1 infection should 
be based on individual viral resistance testing and/or treatment history of patients. 
Hepatitis B infection 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with: 
- 
compensated liver disease, with evidence of active viral replication, persistently elevated serum alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and/or fibrosis (see section 
5.1). 
- 
- 
evidence of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
decompensated liver disease (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adolescents 12 to < 18 years 
of age with: 
- 
compensated liver disease and evidence of immune active disease, i.e. active viral replication, persistently 
elevated serum ALT levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and/or fibrosis (see sections 
4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 
section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 27/29 
 
  
  
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to prescribe/use 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva in adults and/or adolescent patients are provided with a physician educational pack 
containing the Summary of Product Characteristics and an appropriate educational brochure, as detailed below: 
•  HIV renal educational brochure, including the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
•  HBV renal educational brochure, including the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
•  HIV adolescent educational brochure 
•  HBV adolescent educational brochure 
The HIV and HBV renal educational brochures should contain the following key messages: 
•  That there is an increased risk of renal disease in HIV and HBV infected patients associated with tenofovir 
disoproxil-containing products such as Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
•  That Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva should only be used in patients with impaired renal function if the potential 
benefits of treatment are considered to outweigh the potential risks 
•  The importance of dose interval adjustment using Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets in 
adult patients with creatinine clearance of 30-49 ml/min 
•  That in adults with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) and hemodialysis patients 
where adequate dose adjustments cannot be applied with this product due to lack of alternative tablet 
strengths, the use in this group of patients is not recommended. If no alternative treatment is available, it is 
possible to use Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets in extended dosing intervals. 
•  Daily dose adjustment using other suitable formulation of tenofovir disoproxil 33 mg/g granules (check for 
availability) is recommended for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min). 
For patients unable to use the granules formulation and with no alternative treatment available, prolonged 
dose intervals using Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets may be used 
•  That use of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva should be avoided with concomitant or recent use of nephrotoxic 
medicinal products. If Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is used with nephrotoxic medicinal products, renal 
function should be closely monitored according to the recommended schedule 
•  That patients should have their baseline renal function assessed prior to initiating Tenofovir disoproxil 
Zentiva therapy 
•  The importance of regular monitoring of renal function during Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva therapy 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 28/29 
 
  
  
 
•  Recommended schedule for monitoring renal function considering the presence or absence of additional risk 
factors for renal impairment 
•  That if serum phosphate is < 1.5 mg/dl or creatinine clearance decreases during therapy to < 50 ml/min then 
renal function should be re-evaluated within one week. If creatinine clearance is confirmed as < 50 ml/min 
or serum phosphate decreases to < 1.0 mg/dl then consideration should be given to interrupting Tenofovir 
disoproxil Zentiva therapy. Interrupting treatment with Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva should also be 
considered in case of progressive decline of renal function when no other cause has been identified. 
•  Instructions on the use of the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
The HIV and HBV adolescent educational brochures should contain the following key messages: 
•  That a multidisciplinary approach is recommended for the management of adolescent patients 
•  That there is an increased risk of renal disease in HIV and HBV infected patients associated with tenofovir 
disoproxil-containing products such as Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
•  That Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is not recommended for use in paediatric patients with renal impairment 
•  That use of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva should be avoided with concomitant or recent use of nephrotoxic 
medicinal products. If Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is used with nephrotoxic medicinal products, renal 
function should be closely monitored according to the recommended schedule 
•  That patients should have their baseline renal function assessed prior to initiating Tenofovir disoproxil 
Zentiva therapy 
•  The importance of regular monitoring of renal function during Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva therapy 
•  Recommended schedule for monitoring renal function considering the presence or absence of additional risk 
factors for renal impairment 
•  That if serum phosphate is confirmed to be < 1.5 mg/dl (0.48 mmol/l) in any adolescent  patient receiving 
tenofovir disoproxil, renal function should be re-evaluated within one week. 
•  If renal abnormalities are detected or suspected then consultation with a nephrologist should be obtained to 
consider interruption of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva treatment. Interrupting treatment with Tenofovir 
disoproxil Zentiva should also be considered in case of progressive decline of renal function when no other 
cause has been identified. 
•  That Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva may cause a reduction in BMD and the effects of Tenofovir disoproxil 
Zentiva associated changes in BMD on long term bone health and future fracture risk are currently unknown 
in adolescent  patients 
•  That if bone abnormalities are detected or suspected then consultation with an endocrinologist and/or 
nephrologist should be obtained 
Assessment report  
EMA/532453/2016 
Page 29/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
