Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Risk management plan for Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-
coated tablets. The  RMP details important  risks of  Tenofovir disoproxil  Zentiva  245 mg film-coated 
tablets, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Tenofovir 
disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Tenofovir disoproxil  Zentiva  245 mg film-coated tablets summary of product characteristics  (SmPC) 
and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets should be read 
in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  Tenofovir 
disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets is authorised for HIV 1 infection and hepatitis 
B  infection  in  adults  and  adolescents  aged  12  to  < 18  years  (see  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).  It 
contains tenofovir disoproxil as the active substance and it is given orally.  
Further information about the evaluation of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets 
benefits can be found in Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets EPAR, including in its 
the  medicine’s 
the 
plain-language 
webpage:http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/0041
20/human_med_002023.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124. 
EMA  website, 
summary, 
available 
under 
on 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important risks of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets, together with measures to 
minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 
mg film-coated tablets risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  Tenofovir  disoproxil  Zentiva  245  mg  film-coated  tablets,  these  measures  are 
supplemented with additional risk minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, 
below. 
 
 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Tenofovir  disoproxil  Zentiva  245  mg  film-
coated tablets is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets are risks that need special 
risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product 
can  be  safely  taken.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 
mg  film-coated  tablets.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs  further evaluation. Missing  information  refers  to  information on  the  safety of  the  medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
  Renal Toxicity 
  Bone events due to proximal renal tubulopathy / loss of 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Renal Toxicity 
Risk minimisation measures 
bone mineral density 
  Post-treatment hepatic flares in HBV monoinfected and 
HIV/HBV coinfected patients 
Interaction with didanosine 
 
  Pancreatitis 
  Development of resistance during long-term exposure in 
HBV infected patients 
  Safety in children (including long-term safety) 
  Safety in elderly patients 
  Safety in pregnancy 
  Safety in lactation 
  Safety in patients with renal impairment 
  Safety in patients with decompensated liver disease and 
CPT score >9 (including long-term safety) 
  Safety in liver transplant recipients infected with HBV 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.3 
PL section 2 and 4 
Recommendation for renal function monitoring is included in 
section 4.4 and 4.8 of SmPC and PL section 2 
Prescription only medicine.  
Therapy  should  be  initiated  by  a physician  experienced  in  the 
management  of  HIV  infection  and/or  treatment  of  chronic 
hepatitis B.  
 
 
 
 
Renal Toxicity 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational program for physicians 
Bone events due to proximal renal tubulopathy / loss of bone mineral density 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.3 
PL section 2 and 4 
Recommendation for consultation with specialist (endocrinologist 
and or/nephrologist) in case that bone abnormalities are detected 
or suspected in paediatric patients is included in section 4. 4 of 
SmPC and PL section 2 
Prescription only medicine.  
Therapy  should  be  initiated  by  a physician  experienced  in  the 
management  of  HIV  infection  and/or  treatment  of  chronic 
hepatitis B. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational program for physicians 
Safety in children (including long-term safety) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 
PL section 2 
Recommendation  for  renal  monitoring  and  consultation  with 
specialist (endocrinologist and or/nephrologist) in case that bone 
abnormalities are detected or suspected in paediatric patients is 
included in section 4. 4 of SmPC and PL section 2 
Prescription only medicine.  
Therapy  should  be  initiated  by  a physician  experienced  in  the 
management  of  HIV  infection  and/or  treatment  of  chronic 
hepatitis B.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational program for physicians 
Safety in patients with renal impairment 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in patients with renal impairment 
SmPC section 4.2, 4.4, 5.2 
PL section 2 
Recommendation for renal function monitoring is included in 
section 4.2, 4.4 and PL section 2 
Prescription only medicine.  
Therapy  should  be  initiated  by  a physician  experienced  in  the 
management  of  HIV  infection  and/or  treatment  of  chronic 
hepatitis B.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational program for physicians 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies,  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg film-coated tablets.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies in post-authorisation development plan for Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 245 mg 
film-coated tablets.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
