Summary of risk management plan for TEPADINA  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for TEPADINA. The RMP details important risks of 
TEPADINA, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about TEPADINA's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
TEPADINA 's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how TEPADINA should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for TEPADINA should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
TEPADINA is authorised (see SmPC for the full indication) in combination with other chemotherapy 
medicinal products:  
•  with or without total body irradiation (TBI), as conditioning treatment prior to allogeneic or autologous 
haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in haematological diseases in adult and paediatric 
patients; 
•  when high dose chemotherapy with HPCT support is appropriate for the treatment of solid tumours in 
adult and paediatric patients. 
It contains thiotepa as the active substance and it is given by intravenous route.  
Further information about the evaluation of TEPADINA’s benefits can be found in TEPADINA’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/tepadina. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of TEPADINA together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about TEPADINA's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of TEPADINA is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of TEPADINA are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with the use of TEPADINA. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
 Summary table of Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important Identified Risks 
None 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Not applicable. 
II.C  Post authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
TEPADINA. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for TEPADINA. 
 
 
 
