European Medicines Agency 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref.:  EMA/CHMP/55233/2010 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Tepadina 
International Nonproprietary Name: thiotepa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001046 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE
........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier
........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION
................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
2.7 
Introduction
.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Well-established medicinal use
................................................................................................ 5 
Quality aspects
......................................................................................................................... 7 
Non-clinical aspects
................................................................................................................. 9 
Clinical aspects
...................................................................................................................... 19 
Pharmacovigilance
................................................................................................................. 59 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation
...................................... 64 
Page 2 of 78 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant ADIENNE S.r.l. submitted on 4 July 2008 an application for Marketing Authorisation to 
the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) through the centralised procedure for Tepadina, which was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/06/424 on 29 January 2007. Tepadina was designated 
as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  in  the  following  indication:  conditioning  treatment  prior  to 
haematopoietic  progenitor  cell  transplantation  (HPCT).  The  calculated  prevalence  of  this  condition 
was 0.5 per 10,000 EU population.  
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  conditioning  treatment  prior  to  conventional 
haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in adult and paediatric patients.   
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - Well-established use application. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to Orphan Market Exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) 
No  847/2000,  the  application  contained  a  critical  report  addressing  the  possible  similarity  with  the 
authorised orphan medicinal product Busilvex (busulfan). 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Protocol Assistance: 
The applicant did not seek Protocol Assistance at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Pierre Demolis 
Co-Rapporteur: Jens Ersbøll 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
 
 
The application was received by the EMEA on 4 July 2008. 
The procedure started on 23 July 2008.  
Page 3 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 October 
2008 The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 15 
October 2008  
During  the  meeting  on  17-20  November  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 21 November 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  20 
March 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 3 July 2009  
During the CHMP meeting on 20-23 July 2009, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant  
    The applicant submitted the responses to the outstanding issues on 19 October 2009. 
    The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 30 October 2009  
The Rapporteurs circulate an updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 13 November 2009  
During  the  meeting  on  14-17  December  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Tepadina on 17 December 2009. The applicant provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  10 
December 2009  
The CHMP adopted a report on similarity of TEPADINA with Busilvex on 22 January 2009.  
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 Introduction 
Conditioning is the preparatory treatment for Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT, also 
referred  to  as  Haemopoietic  Progenitor  Cell  Transplantation-HPCT).  Transplant  refers  to  any 
procedure  where  haemopoietic  stem  cells  of  any  donor  type  and  any  source  are  given  to  a  recipient 
with the intention of repopulating and replacing the haemopoietic system in total or in part. Stem cells 
can be derived from bone marrow (BMT) or peripheral blood (PBSCT). 
There  are  different  conditions  treated  with  HSCT  such  as  acute  myeloid  leukaemia  (AML),  acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
(CLL),  amyloidosis,  acquired  severe  aplastic  anaemia,  autoimmune  disorders,  myeloproliferative 
syndromes  (MPS),  myelodysplastic  syndromes  (MDS),  multiple  myeloma  (MM),  Hodgkin’s 
lymphoma (also known as Hodgkin’s disease-HD), non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL), genetic diseases 
(primary 
immunodeficiencies,  metabolic  disorders,  hemogloninopathies,  congenital  aplasia), 
paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), severe aplastic anaemia and solid tumours. 
The  conditioning  is  generally  considered  the  most  important  step  in  the  HSCT  procedure  and  it 
includes myeloablative, reduced-intensity myeloablative, and nonmyeloablative regimens. Its purpose 
is to help eradicate the patient's disease prior to the transplant, to create marrow space for the donor 
cells and to suppress the host’s immune system to prevent graft rejection. This could be achieved by 
chemotherapy drugs and radiation because both damage cellular DNA.  
The aims of conditioning are: 
-  Creation  of  “space”  for  donor  stem  cells.  Under  physiological  conditions  hemopoietic  stem  cells 
circulate  in  peripheral  blood.  Stem  cells  cross  the  blood–bone  marrow  barrier,  settle  in  empty  bone 
marrow niches, and initiate hemopoiesis. Without conditioning most bone marrow niches are occupied 
and do not accept stem cells.  
-  Prevention  of  Bone  Marrow  rejection.  Hematopoietic  stem  cells  are  rejected  by  as  yet  not  fully 
elucidated immunological mechanisms. 
-  Prevention  of  reciprocal  interference.  This  is  a  term  used  to  describe  lymphocyte  interactions 
between  host  and  donor  in  cases  of  allogeneic  tranplantation,  which  may  have  three  different 
Page 4 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
outcomes: a) the host immune system wins. The majority of immune cells of the recipient will reject 
the transfused immune cells of the donor without noticeable side effects, b) host and donor immune 
systems live peacefully together ever after (incomplete chimerism), or c) donor wins and rejects the 
host.  Graft  versus  host  disease  (GvHD)  is  an  immune  reaction  in  which  donor  lymphocytes  react 
against host tissue. 
- Eradication of immunological memory. Autoreactive B and T lymphocytes and memory cells cause 
autoimmune disease. For  example the  success of a BM  transplant for patients with aplastic anaemia 
(AA) depends on the effective eradication of immunological memory (sensitization). 
Thiotepa  is  a  cell  cycle-phase  independent,  non-specific  alkylating  antineoplastic  agent,  related 
chemically  and  pharmacologically  to  the  nitrogen  mustard.  The  radiomimetic  action  of  thiotepa  is 
believed  to  occur  through  the  release  of  ethylenimine  radicals  that,  similar  to  irradiation  therapy, 
disrupt the bonds of DNA. One of the principal bond disruptions is initiated by alkylation of guanine 
at  the  N-7  position  that  severs  the  linkage  between  the  purine  base  and  the  sugar  and  liberates 
alkylated guanines. 
Thiotepa  undergoes  complex  metabolism  with  TEPA  as  the  major  metabolite.  Both  thiotepa  and 
TEPA are active structures. TEPA is assumed to interact differently with DNA, but is also thought to 
produce DNA lesions. 
The use of thiotepa is invariably associated with haematological toxicity, while extra-haematological 
toxicity  is  absent  or  mild  in  the  commonly  used  posologies.  Myelosuppression  is  the  dose-limiting 
toxicity in its use in standard chemotherapy.  
The  Applicant  proposed  an  indication  for  Tepadina  as  conditioning  treatment  prior  to  conventional 
haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in adult and paediatric patients.  
Autologous  or  allogenic  stem-cell  transplantation  takes  advantage  of  the  specific  bone-marrow 
toxicity and the lack of dose limiting extra-medullary toxicity of thiotepa. The compound is frequently 
given in combination with cyclophosphamide and busulfan or cyclophosphamide and carboplatin, as 
well as in other combinations of high-dose chemotherapy regimens. The use of thiotepa at high dosage 
as part of conditioning treatments prior to haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation dates back to 
the late 1980s. In this context, thiotepa has been used in patients with a wide variety of disorders, from 
leukaemia to solid tumours including CNS tumours, as it crosses the blood-brain-barrier and reaches 
the same concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid as in plasma, and from thalassemia to autoimmune 
disorders. 
Orphan Drug Designation was granted on 29 January 2007 by the European Commission for Tepadina 
in Conditioning treatment prior to haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (EU/3/06/424), based 
on the prevalence of the condition estimated to be in the range of 0.5 per 10,000 of population.  
2.2  Well-established medicinal use 
A  full  bibliographical  dossier  was  submitted  according  to  Article  10a  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  as 
amended  relying  on  a  “well  established  use”  of  Tepadina  in  the  EU  for  more  than  10  years.  The 
application was based on extensive published scientific literature, which makes it possible to replace 
results  of  pharmacological  and  toxicological  tests  and  of  clinical  trials  by  detailed  references  to 
published  studies.  Under  the  terms  of  Article  10a  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  the  non-clinical  and 
clinical  evidence  of  safety  and  efficacy  were  based  on  the  provision  of  expertly  evaluated 
bibliographical references. 
The claim of ‘well-established medicinal use’ of thiotepa has been based on the time over which the 
substance has been used, on quantitative aspects of the use of the substance, the degree of scientific 
interest in the use of the substance, and the coherence of scientific assessments. 
Overview of the development of thiotepa 
The clinical development of thiotepa started in the middle of the 1950s and the agent has been used in 
the treatment of different neoplastic disease including Chronic Leukemia, Non Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, 
Hodgkin’s Disease, adenocarcinoma of the breast and the ovary, melanoma, paediatric and germinal 
tumours. 
Approved  thiotepa  therapeutic  indications  include  the  palliation  of  a  variety  of  neoplastic  diseases. 
The more consistent results have been seen in the following tumours:  
- Adenocarcinoma of the breast.  
Page 5 of 78 
 
 
 
 
- Adenocarcinoma of the ovary.  
-  For  controlling  intracavitary  effusions  secondary  to  diffuse  or  localized  neoplastic  diseases  of 
various serosal cavities.  
- Superficial papillary carcinoma of the urinary bladder.   
While  now  largely  superseded  by  other  treatments,  thiotepa  has  been  effective  against  some 
lymphomas, such as lymphosarcoma and Hodgkin’s disease.   
This indication was approved in the USA in March 1959 and thiotepa was re-registered in the USA in 
2001. Thiotepa has been registered in over 60 countries worldwide, including European countries. 
Applicant argumentation on the fulfillment of the criteria for ‘well-established use’ 
In  the  last  thirty  years,  haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  has  become  a  standard  therapy  in 
patients with advanced haematological malignancies and malignant solid tumors resistant to standard 
chemotherapy. 
The use of thiotepa showed that the compound is accompanied by haematological toxicity, but extra-
haematological toxicity was mild or absent. For this reason, already at the end of the 1980s, thiotepa 
was considered an ideal drug to use at high dosage in conditioning treatments prior to haematopoietic 
progenitor  cell  transplantation.  High  dose  thiotepa  has  been  systematically  used  in  this  indication  in 
European hospitals for over 10 years.  
The consensus of scientific assessment of the use of thiotepa in the proposed indication relied on the 
general  idea  of  a  correlation  between  dose  intensity  and  cytotoxic  effect  (Terenzi,  1993;  Porrata, 
2001). The dose-response relationship and the knowledge of resistance patterns led the investigators to 
look for possibilities of overcoming the biological limitation of bone marrow toxicity. 
In  the  last  twenty  years,  thiotepa  become  a  standardized  and  systematically  used  agent  in  the 
indication of conditioning treatment prior to haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation for a wide 
variety  of  disorders  from  solid  tumors  (Bregni,  2002;  Pession,  1999,  Nitz,  2005)  to  leukemia 
(Bacigalupo, 1996; Zecca, 1999), from thalassemia (La Nasa, 2005) to autoimmune disorders. 
In  the  late  1980s,  the  Perugia  group  (Italy)  first  introduced  thiotepa  in  the  conditioning  regimen  for 
haematopoietic  stem  cells  transplantation  in  patients  affected  by  haematological  malignancies, 
obtaining very good results in term of efficacy and safety (Aversa, 1998). 
Similar results as engraftment and survival free from disease were recorded by the Memorial Hospital 
Group of New York (Papadopoulos, 1998). 
Following the Perugia Group experience, thiotepa has been adopted by other hospitals and it is now a 
standardized  and  systematically  used  agent  in  the  indication  of  conditioning  treatment  prior  to 
haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation. 
Good penetration into the CSF and minor organ toxicity qualified thiotepa as one of the first classical 
drugs  to  be  employed  in  CNS  tumours  (Heideman,  1989).  In  fact,  in  paediatric  brain  tumours  the 
possibility  to  increase  intracerebral  DNA-alkylating  activity  without  applying  highly  toxic  brain 
irradiation (Gutierrez-Delgado, 2003; Gutierrez-Delgado, 2001) makes high dose thiotepa one of the 
first drugs used in this context in pre-irradiated or very young children. 
A  broad  base  of  clinical  experience  with  thiotepa  and  different  combination  partners  in  multiple 
complex  contexts  is  available.  Thiotepa  can  certainly  be  regarded  as  well  established  and 
systematically used in the dose-intensive treatment of paediatric brain tumours. 
Thiotepa is covering all patient ages, from pediatric to elderly, giving the opportunity to physicians to 
apply dose escalating treatment options. 
Over 20 years of use in the indication of conditioning treatment prior to haematopoietic progenitor cell 
transplantation, thiotepa has shown: 
- potent immuno-myeloablative effect; 
- significant contribution to engraftment, also across the HLA barrier; 
- significant contribution to eradication of leukemia/lymphoma; 
-  very  low  extra-haematological  toxicity  even  at  high  doses,  also  in  combination  with  TBI  or  other 
agents (no veno-occlusive disease-VOD); 
- no age restriction; 
- use in many different diseases from haematological malignancies to solid tumours, from thalassemia 
to autoimmunity disorders; 
- ease of combination with TBI or many other alkylating agents (CY, Busulfan, Treosulfan, TBI, FLU, 
Melphalan). 
Page 6 of 78 
 
 
In  preparation  of  the  initial  submission,  a  PubMed  search  for  thiotepa  produced  2895  hits,  1060  of 
which  in  the  conditioning treatment  prior  to  bone  marrow  transplantation.  Considering  the  literature 
available between 1999 and 2008, it is estimated that 15.500 patients were treated with conditioning 
regimens including thiotepa. 
Discussion on ‘well-established medicinal use’ 
Thiotepa  has  been  used  in  conditioning  treatment  prior  to  haematopoietic  progenitor  cell 
transplantation in the EU for over 10 years. Moreover, it should be emphasized that:  
1)  An  overview  of  all  published  bibliographical  documentation  with  regard  to  the  first  documented 
time of use of the substance as a medicinal product in the EU is described and sufficiently addressed. 
2)  The  extent  over  which  the  active  substance  intended  for  authorisation  has  been  regularly  used  in 
patients  (i.e.  quantitative  aspects  of  the  use  of  the  substance)  is  sufficiently  addressed.  The 
demonstration of the well-established use of the substance (incl. time and extent of use) is specifically 
related to the use in a part of the claimed indication. The use of thiotepa as  single agent is not well 
documented and therefore not included in the indication. 
3) The scientific literature is considered coherent with respect to the clinical efficacy and safety of the 
product,  i.e.  both  the  quality  of  the  data  in  the  publications  and  the  consistency  between  different 
studies.  
4)  The  degree  of  scientific  interest  in  the  use  of  the  substance  (reflected  in  the  published  scientific 
literature)  is  sufficiently  addressed  (e.g.  high  number  and  frequent  publications  on  the  use  of  the 
substance). 
2.3  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Tepadina is a powder for concentrate for infusion for intravenous use containing thiotepa.  
Tepadina  is  available  in  two  presentations:  15  mg  of  thiotepa  and  100  mg  of  thiotepa  per  vial.  The 
medicinal product is reconstituted with 1.5 ml (15 mg presentation) or 10 ml (100 mg presentation) 
sterile water for injections to the final concentration of 10 mg thiotepa per ml. 
The medicinal product contains no other ingredients apart from the active substance and it is packed in 
glass vials. 
Drug Substance 
is 
the 
the  chemical  substance  1,1’,1’’-phosphinothioylidynetris-Tris-(1-
Thiotepa 
aziridinyl)phosphine  sulphide.  The  molecular  formula  of  thiotepa  is  C6H12N3PS,  the  relative 
molecular mass 189.23 g/mol, with the following structural formula: 
INN 
for 
The  active  substance  is  well  known  and  has  been  satisfactorily  characterised.  It  forms  fine,  white 
crystalline  flakes  freely  soluble  in  water,  very  soluble  in  organic  solvents  like  acetonitrile,  acetone, 
methanol and only sparingly soluble in n-hexane. No evidence of polymorphism was found during the 
characterisation studies performed. 
  Manufacture 
Thiotepa  is  supplied  by  one  manufacturer  only.  An  Active  Substance  Master  File  was  submitted  to 
support the quality of active substance. A detailed description of the manufacturing process, including 
process flow diagram and in-process controls were provided, and there is evidence that the process is 
under control and delivers an active substance of consistent quality.  
Page 7 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Specification 
Thiotepa  is  controlled  according  to  relevant  tests  with  justified  limits  with  regards  to  assay,  related 
substances,  heavy  metals,  clarity,  particle  count,  bacterial  endotoxins,  microbiological  quality  and 
residual  solvents.  Adequate  validation  data  was  presented  for  the  in-house  analytical  methods. 
Satisfactory batch analysis results were provided for seven batches.  
  Stability 
ICH compliant stability studies at accelerated (25 C/60 % RH) and long-term storage conditions (2 
C  -  8  C)  have  been  performed  for  up  to  6  months  and  36  months,  respectively.  The  following 
parameters  were  investigated:  description,  water  content,  assay,  related  substances,  clarity, 
microbiological quality and bacterial endotoxins. The stability data support the proposed re-test period 
of 18 months at 2 C - 8 C when stored in the commercial container closure system. 
Drug Product  
  Pharmaceutical Development 
The 15 mg presentation of thiotepa was first authorised in the Europe in 1971 and is now authorised in 
several European Countries. The freeze-dried powder of thiotepa with no excipients was first proposed 
in  1995.  The  improved  stability  profile  of  the  lyophilisate  formulation  was  preferred  to  the  initially 
developed  solution  of  thiotepa.  The  100  mg  presentation  of  thiotepa  does  not  have  any  previous 
marketing authorisation. 
The container closure system consists of colourless 3 ml vials (15 mg presentation) or 10 ml vials (100 
mg presentation), a siliconised gray bromobutyl freeze drying stopper and a planar blue (15 mg) or red 
(100 mg) silver “flip top” cap.  
Satisfactory data are provided to justify the proposed manufacturing process of the finished product.  
  Adventitious Agents 
The active substance is not of human or animal origin, therefore there is no TSE/BSE risk. 
This medicinal product does not contain excipients.  
  Manufacture of the Product 
Heat sterilisation is not possible due to the thermolability of the active substance.  Consequently, the 
drug  product  is  manufactured  by  aseptic  processing,  including  dilution  of  the  active  substance  in 
water, sterilisation by filtration, filling into sterile pyrogen free vials and lyophilisation under aseptic 
conditions. 
A  detailed  description  of  the  manufacturing  process  was  provided.  Process  validation  data  are 
provided for three commercial size batches of the 15 mg presentation and three pilot scale batches and 
one  commercial  size  batch  of  the  100  mg  presentation;  the  applicant  commits  to  perform  process 
validation in the first two commercial size batches of the 100 mg presentation after authorisation. The 
critical steps of the manufacturing process of both presentations have been identified and validated. 
  Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specifications  include  the  following  parameters:  appearance,  identity, 
time,  clarity  of  solution,  pH,  water  content,  related  substances,  particulate 
reconstitution 
contamination,  insoluble  substances,  sterility,  bacterial  endotoxins,  assay  and  uniformity  of  dosage 
units. The specifications are adequate to control the medicinal product. 
All  analytical  methods  used  to  test  the  drug  product  have  been  properly  described.  All  non-
pharmacopoeial methods were validated. 
Batch  results  for  three  batches  of  both  product  presentations  are  enclosed.  Analytical  results  of 
commercial  production  batches  are  presented  for  the  15  mg  formulation,  whereas  for  the  100  mg 
formulation results are presented for validation batches. The results comply with the specification and 
confirm consistency of the product. 
Page 8 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Stability of the Product 
Satisfactory accelerated and long-term stability data are provided for up to 6 months and 18 months, 
respectively. The stability studies were performed under ICH conditions. 
A  shelf-life  of  18  months  is  granted  for  the  15  mg  formulation  and  100  mg  formulation  with  the 
special precautions for storage “Store and transport refrigerated (2 C – 8 C)”.  
The  in-use  stability  of  the  product  when  reconstituted  with  sterile  water  for  injections  and  further 
diluted with 0.9 % saline solution has been demonstrated for up to 7 days when kept at 25 C and for 
up to 21 days when stored at 2 C – 8 C, however since the product is not preserved it should be used 
immediately after reconstitution and dilution.  
  Comparability Exercise for Drug Product  
Compatibility of the formulation with the proposed container closure system is demonstrated by the 
ongoing stability studies. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substance and the  medicinal product have  been appropriately characterised and  generally 
satisfactory  documentation  has  been  provided.  The  results  indicate  that  both  can  be  reproducibly 
manufactured.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were minor unresolved quality issues which have no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve it as a Follow-up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed time-frame. 
2.4  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The non-clinical dossier submitted by the applicant was based exclusively on literature data. None of 
the  submitted  studies  were  conducted  for  regulatory  purposes.  GLP  compliance  is  therefore  not 
expected, nor was Protocol Assistance by the CHMP or National Competent Authorities sought on the 
non-clinical dossier. 
Pharmacology 
  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Mechanism of action. The applicant mainly refers to the review published by van Maanen et al (2000) 
about the chemistry, pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of thiotepa. According to these authors, the 
interaction of thiotepa with DNA can follow two different pathways:  
-  Formation  of  cross-links  between  thiotepa  and  DNA:  Reaction  of  thiotepa  with  DNA  leads  to 
alkylation  of  guanine  and  adenine.  This  produces  inter-  and  intrastrand  cross  links,  which  are 
responsible  for  the  inactivation  of  DNA  and  for  the  cytotoxicity.  Interstrand  cross-links  have  been 
observed  upon  incubation  of  murine  L1210-  (lymphoblastic  leukaemic)  and  human  MCF-7-  (breast 
carcinoma) cells with thiotepa. 
- Thiotepa acting as a prodrug for aziridine: The released aziridine can react with DNA, resulting in 
the formation of a stable guanidine adduct, imidazole ring opening and DNA chain scission. 
In addition, thiotepa is metabolized in other compounds with alkylating properties: 
- TEPA: according to van Maanen et al (2000), its interaction with DNA is assumed to be different 
from that of thiotepa, but it produces DNA lesions similar to the ones induced by a mono-functional 
alkylating agent. The therapeutic effectiveness of TEPA in the treatment of transplantable rat tumours 
(sarcoma 231 and Flexner-Jobling carcinoma) was demonstrated by Crossley et al (1953). Teicher et 
al (1989) showed in MCF-7 cells that TEPA is less cytotoxic than thiotepa. 
- Monochloro-TEPA and thiotepa-mercapturate, whose mechanism of action remains to be elucidated. 
The  presence  of  other  metabolites  with  alkylating  activity  of  unknown  structure  is  well  known  (van 
Maanen et al, 2000). 
Page 9 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
In  vitro  studies.  Investigation  on  the  cellular  pharmacology  of  thiotepa  and  TEPA  in  the  murine 
leukaemia cells P388 showed that both substances inhibit DNA, RNA and protein synthesis. Thiotepa 
and TEPA both showed activity against cell growth, but thiotepa appeared to be twice as active (IC50 
thiotepa:  1.5µM;  IC50  TEPA:  2.8µM).  Inhibition  of  radiolabelled  macromolecular  precursor 
incorporation resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of DNA, RNA and protein synthesis for thiotepa 
and TEPA. The effect of inhibition of [³H]-uridine and [³H]-leucine incorporation was much smaller 
than the [³H]-thymidine (Miller et al, 1988). 
In vivo studies. The bone marrow and tumour toxicity of thiotepa was investigated in tumour-bearing 
mice by Teicher et al (1990). The surviving fractions of bone marrow (CFU-GM) cells and of tumour 
cells were determined 24 hours after intraperitoneal treatment with thiotepa (10, 15, 20, 30, 40 and 50 
mg/kg, given either as a single dose or as 3 doses at 4.5-hour intervals). 
At the lowest dose range, thiotepa on a single-dose schedule was more toxic to bone marrow cells than 
to tumour cells. On the multiple-dose schedule, thiotepa was always more toxic toward tumour cells 
than  toward  bone  marrow  cells  to  an  extent  ranging  from  2-  to  13-fold  over  the  dosage  levels 
examined. At the lowest dose of thiotepa, single-dose and multiple-dose schedules produced the same 
level  of  bone  marrow  toxicity;  however,  30  mg/kg  of  thiotepa  on  the  multiple-dose  schedule  killed 
about 5 times the bone marrow CFU-GM of the single dose regimen. 
Three studies involving murine transplantation models were submitted. 
Terenzi et al (1990) studied the permissive effect of thiotepa on engraftment in a murine (C3H/HeJ) 
model  of  allogenic  bone marrow  transplantation.  C3H/HeJ  mice  were  transplanted  with  mismatched 
(donor:  C57Bl/6)  T  cell-depleted  bone  marrow  following  conditioning  with  TBI  alone  or  in 
combination with cyclophosphamide, busulfan or thiotepa.  
Chimerism  analysis  was  then  carried  out  by  cytofluorimetry  (using  anti-H2Kb  and  anti-H2Kk 
monoclonal  antibodies)  to  investigate  the  effect  of  conditioning  combination  on  donor-type 
chimerism. The effect of TBI on engraftment was enhanced by additional treatment of the host with 
thiotepa or busulfan, but not when cyclophosphamide was used (data not shown). It should be noted 
that  lethality  was  greater  in  mice  undergoing  conditioning  with  TBI  and  thiotepa  (administered  one 
day prior to BMT) than in the other groups. Subsequent experiments conducted by the authors showed 
that survival  was significantly improved when the  interval between thiotepa treatment and  stem cell 
transfusion  was  increased.  The  applicant  concluded  that  busulfan  and  thiotepa  have  comparable 
myeloablative  effects,  and  this  is  relevant  in  the  setting  of  stem  cell  transplantation,  as  well  as  in 
patients with myeloid malignancies. 
Down et al (1998) investigated the haematological properties of thiotepa with respect to the survival of 
different progenitor and stem cell subsets in the mouse bone marrow by enumerating cobblestone area-
forming-cell  (CAFCs)  subsets.  The  CAFC  assay  was  performed  on  harvested  bone  marrow  pooled 
from  groups  of  three  to  four  mice  24  hours  after  treatment.  The  influence  of  the  combination  of 
thiotepa  (20mg/kg  i.p.  day  –1)  and  TBI  (5Gy  day  –2)  on  donor  engraftment  was  tested  in  both 
syngenic and allogenic BMT models. 
It was shown that thiotepa is toxic to committed progenitor populations (early developing CAFCs) and 
it  can  promote  early  donor  engraftment.  Primitive  stem  cells  (late  developing  CAFCs)  remained 
relatively  resistant  to  this  drug,  which  may  lead  to  long  term  host  marrow  repopulation  and 
disappearance of donor engraftment. TBI led to a high level of short term engraftment, too, and it was 
capable of producing sustained levels of chimerism through depletion of primitive CAFCs in the host. 
Addition of thiotepa to TBI did not significantly improve long-term engraftment of syngenic marrow, 
while this combination had an effect in allogenic BMT by preventing allograft rejection. The authors 
concluded  that  the  effectiveness  of  thiotepa  in  allogenic  graft  tolerance  is  due  to  its  immune 
suppressive properties rather than to depletion of the host primitive stem cell pool. 
Abdul-Hai  et  al  (2007)  evaluated  the  use  of  thiotepa  in  a  murine  model  simulating  autologous  stem 
cell transplantation with or without additional agents. Between 1 and 11 days following inoculation of 
BALB/c  mice  with  B-cell  leukaemia  (BCL1)  cells  (simulating  pre-transplant  leukaemia  loads),  each 
group received an 'induction-like' irradiation and/or cytotoxic regimen. Animals were either followed 
without  treatment,  or  an  adoptive  transfer  (AT)  was  performed  to  untreated  BALB/c  mice.  Without 
follow-up AT, high-dose thiotepa did not change the time to appearance of leukaemia. Nevertheless, 
in the AT experiments, thiotepa as a single agent showed better anti-leukaemic activity than busulfan. 
Cyclophosphamide-containing regimens were the most effective, and the thiotepa-cyclophosphamide 
combination  was  as  effective  as  the  commonly  used  busulfan-cyclophosphamide  combination,  and 
Page 10 of 78 
 
more effective than the busulfan-thiotepa combination. Moreover, a synergistic effect was seen in the 
thiotepa-cyclophosphamide  combination  (none  of  the  animals  developed  leukaemia,  whereas  4/10 
animals  in  the  cyclophosphamide-TBI  group  developed  leukaemia).  The  authors  concluded  that  in 
spite of a moderate effect of thiotepa against BCL1 leukaemia when used alone, its combination with 
cyclophosphamide is promising and should be tested further in allogeneic murine models and clinical 
studies. 
  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No studies considered by the CHMP as relevant were submitted (see discussion on non-clinical 
aspects). 
  Safety pharmacology programme 
No conventional safety pharmacology data are available. Of the cited publications, the following can 
be considered of relevance: 
Rzeski  et  al  (2004)  addressed  the  issue  of  CNS  safety  pharmacology  and  toxicity.  They  reported 
morphological changes consistent with neurotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. In cortical neuronal cultures 
prepared from 18-day-old Wistar-rat foetuses, thiotepa (0.1-500 µM) caused concentration-dependent 
neuronal  death.  NMDA  (MK  801:  10µM)  and  AMPA  receptor  antagonists  (GYKI  52466;  NBQX: 
10µM)  and  also  a  pancaspase  inhibitor  (Ac-DEVCHO:1nM)  ameliorated  neurotoxicity.  In  vivo, 
thiotepa  (15,  30,  45mg/kg)  was  injected  intraperitoneally  to  7-day-old  Wistar  rats.  Electronic 
microscopy of different brain regions showed oedematous swelling of dendritic processes. Taking in 
vitro and in vivo results together, it was presumed that excitotoxic mechanisms and caspase-mediated 
cell death contribute to the neurotoxicity of thiotepa. 
  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
A  number  of  publications  were  cited.  There  is  evidence  that  drug  interactions  may  occur  with 
succinylcholine,  cyclophosphamide  and  phenobarbital,  but  it  is  unclear  if  the  interactions  are  of 
pharmacodynamic nature in addition to the recognised pharmacokinetic (see non-clinical and clinical 
pharmacokinetics). 
Pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction  in  vitro  has  been  demonstrated  by  determining  the  surviving 
fraction  of  cells  after  treatment  with  cyclophosphamide  and  thioTEPA.  Simultaneous  exposure  of 
murine  MCF-7  cells  to  a  combination  of  thioTEPA  and  cyclophosphamide  (administered  as  4-
hydroxycyclophosphamide), resulted in supra-additive tumour cell death (Teicher et al, 1988, 1990). 
However  in  vivo  infusion  of  daily  5  mg/kg  thioTEPA  for  6  days  as  maximum  tolerated  dose  and 
cyclophosphamide  on  alternate-day  schedule  for  three  infusions  (100  mg/kg  x3)  to  EMT-6  tumour 
bearing  mice  produced  about  25  days  of  tumour  growth  delay.  This  delay  was  not  significantly 
different from the expected additive individual drug effects. Combination treatment of EMT6 cells in 
vivo  with  10  or  15  mg/kg  thioTEPA  and  various  doses  of  cyclophosphamide  produced  additive 
tumour cell death paralleled by sub-additive bone marrow toxicity in some cases (Teicher et al, 1988). 
Pharmacokinetics 
Analytical  methods.  Various  analytical  methods  to  determine  thiotepa  in  plasma  and  urine  were 
described  to  support  pharmacokinetic  studies.  These  were  either  chemical  methods,  based  on  the 
ability of ring cleavage (Titration of thiosulphate in urine samples; Colorimetric assay to determine the 
alkylating  activity;  Fluorimetric  assay  based  on  the  S-alkylation  of  the  ethyleneimine  groups  of 
thiotepa and TEPA), or physical methods, chromatographic and spectrometric (Gas chromatography: 
most  applied  method  for  PK  studies  of  thiotepa  in  biological  fluids;  High  pressure  liquid 
chromatography  (HPLC):  rarely  used  for  measuring  thiotepa;  Liquid  chromatography  with  mass 
spectrometric  detection  (LC-MS):  used  for  the  determination  of  thiotepa-mercapturate  in  urine 
samples;  Nuclear  magnetic  resonance  (NMR)  spectrometry:  accurate  and  precise,  but  not  frequently 
described). 
Page 11 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption.  The  applicant  summarized  absorption  data  obtained  in  various  species  using  the  oral, 
intraventricular or intraperitoneal routes. In some studies, the IV route was used as a reference. 
Distribution.  In  general,  distribution  of  thiotepa  is  rapidly  followed  by  fast  elimination  from  the 
plasma compartment. Craig et al (1959) found at 2 mins after intravenous administration of 2mg/kg 
only 10% and 14% of the radioactivity of 32P-labelled thiotepa in the blood of mice and rat. Mellet et 
al (1960, 1962) reported low levels of thiotepa already 2 hours after administration of the drug either 
orally or intravenously in dogs. 
According to distribution studies in animals (Dairman, 1966; Mellet et al, 1960; Ruddon et al, 1964; 
Strong et al, 1986), both thiotepa and TEPA penetrated into cerebrospinal fluid. As early as 15 mins 
after an i.v. dose of thiotepa, CSF levels equilibrated with those in the plasma and resulted in identical 
plasma and CSF levels (Strong et al, 1986). 
Binding  to  plasma  proteins  for  thiotepa  and  TEPA  in  dogs  is  about  0-10%  (Mellet  et  al,  1960). 
Selective retention of labelled material was found in the red cells of the rat, located in the globin part 
of haemoglobin (Craig et al, 1959). 
Metabolism. Metabolism has been investigated in various species (mice, rat, rabbit, dog and human). 
In  the  mouse,  thiotepa  is  metabolised  to  inorganic  phosphate  as  the  only  product.  In  other  species, 
TEPA  was  found  to  be  the  main  metabolite  of  thiotepa  (Maanen  et  al,  2000).  The  conversion  of 
thiotepa to TEPA is catalysed by specific cytochrome isoenzymes. Although the specific P450 isoform 
involved  in  the  metabolism  is  not  yet  clear,  evidence  from  animal  and  in  vitro  studies  suggest  that 
thiotepa is metabolised in rats by CYP2B1 and CYP2C11 (Chang et al, 1995) and in human by CYP 
2B6 and CYP3A4 (Jacobson et al, 2002). 
In  vitro,  thiotepa  is  able  to  form  conjugates  with  glutathione  after  incubation  with  glutathione  and 
glutathione S-transferase. Glutathione conjugation is followed by subsequent removal of glutamyl and 
glycine residues to form thiotepa-cysteinate which is then N-acetylated to thiotepa-mercapturate. This 
metabolite  has  been  found  in  vivo  in  humans  too,  accounting  for  11%  (range  6.3-22.5)  of  the 
administered dose. 
A 
(N``2- 
chloroethylphosphoramide). The conversion depended on pH and chloride concentration, and could be 
formed  in  vivo  but  also  ex  vivo  in  the  urine.    The  amount  of  monochloroTEPA  excreted  was  0.5% 
(range: 0.3-0.8%) of the administered dose. 
third  metabolite  of 
is  monochloroTEPA 
the  urine 
identified 
thiotepa 
in 
Excretion.  In  general,  thiotepa  and  its  metabolites  are  predominantly  excreted  via  urinary  excretion. 
Dependent  on  investigated  species,  methods  of  detection  and  documented  sampling  time,  between 
50%  and  90%  of  the  total  radiolabelled  thiotepa  was  recovered  in  the  urine  (Craig  et  al,  1959; 
Dairman, 1966; Mellet et al, 1962). The  mean urinary recovery occurred within the first  8-18 hours 
after administration. 
According to the metabolic pathway of thiotepa in the different species, more than 99.5% of thiotepa 
was  metabolised  and  only  small  amounts  (0.3-0.7%)  of  unchanged  drug  were  detectable  in  the 
beginning of urinary excretion (Craig et al, 1959; Dairman, 1966; Mellet et al, 1960 and 1962). The 
main  urinary  metabolite  was  TEPA,  accounting  for  almost  8-15%  of  the  recovered  radioactivity. 
Noteworthy was the absence of thiotepa and TEPA in mouse urine, except in a single urine probe 8 h 
after oral administration (Dairman, 1966). 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions. Because thiotepa is extensively metabolised via cytochrome P450 
enzymes and glutathione conjugation, it might interfere with several drugs. Apart from demonstrating 
the influence of phenobarbital and cyclophosphamide on thiotepa pharmacokinetics in humans, so far 
only limited studies of drug interactions with thiotepa have been reported in animals. 
The  lethal  dosage  of  thiotepa  decreased  when  it  was  administered  to  mice  concomitantly  with  non-
lethal  dosages  of  pentobarbital.  The  LD50  determined  1  hour  after  infusion  decreased  from  >1000 
mg/kg without pentobarbital to 630 mg/kg with additional pentobarbital. The LD50 after 24 hours of 
observation fell from 400 mg/kg to 250 mg/kg respectively (Munson et al, 1974). 
In  rats,  metabolism  of  thiotepa  to  TEPA  by  uninduced  microsomes  was  found  to  be  catalysed  by 
CYP2C11,  a  constitutively  expressed  male  specific  isoform.  Depletion  of  hepatic  CYP2C11  by 
cisplatin led to 70% reduction of TEPA formation catalysed by the isolated liver microsomes on day 7 
after  cisplatin  administration.  In  addition,  treatment  of  rats  with  clofibrate  and  phenobarbital  as 
Page 12 of 78 
 
 
 
 
CYP2B1  inducers  accelerated  thiotepa  clearance  by  increasing  metabolism  to  TEPA  (Ng  and 
Waxman, 1991). 
In  9L  gliosarcoma  bearing  rats  pretreated  with  phenobarbital  (80  mg/kg  i.p.  for  4  days)  and  then 
administered  thiotepa,  the  tumour  growth  delay  effect  was  reduced  and  body  weight  loss  was 
ameliorated. In the same study, the effect of SKF-525A (CYP2C11 inhibitor) was tested; it was shown 
to reduce the clearance of thiotepa as expected, enhance the tumour growth delay and increase body 
weight loss and lethality (Chang et al, 1995). 
In dogs pre-treated with SKF-525A prior to thiotepa administration, plasma TEPA levels were reduced 
and  a  significant  delay  was  noted  in  the  appearance  and  disappearance  of  TEPA  in  the  plasma 
compared to controls (Mellet et al, 1960). 
Toxicology 
  Single dose toxicity 
Three  published  single  dose  toxicity  studies  were  submitted  which  are  summarised  in  the  following 
table: 
Route/dose 
mg/kg 
LD50 
mg/kg 
Major findings 
Table 1: Single Dose toxicity studies 
Reference 
Sloboda et al, 1960 
Sloboda et al, 1960 
Species/ 
Sex/Number/ 
Group 
Mouse (C3H ♀) 
Rat (wistar ♀) 
Sloboda et al, 1962  Mouse (C3H) sex 
unknown  
Sloboda et al, 1962  Rat (wistar ) sex 
Halliday et al, 
1958 
unknown 
Mice – swiss ♂ 
Halliday et al, 
1958 
Halliday et al, 
1958 
Rat – wistar ♂ 
i..p/12-39 
p.o./30-63 
i.p. 6x (daily)/4-8 
i.p/8-16 
p.o./35-72 
i.p. 6x 
(daily)/2.83-5.76 
i.p. 
p.o. 
i.p. 
p.o. 
p.o./6.25-50 
i.p./1.25-10 
p.o. x5 daily/3.1-
25 
i.p. x5 daily/2.5-40
i.p./10-40 
p.o. (vehicle 
water)/? 
p.o. (NaHCO3) 
i.p. x5 daily/4, 8 
24.0 
44.5 
5.1 
9.4 
54.5 
3.48 
24 
45 
9.4 
55 
46 
8.4 
35 
18 
8.4 
26.5 
14.5 
3.9 
Dog 
Intravenous/0.25-1
Oral/0.5-2 
Between 1 and 5 
>2 
Only death 
recorded 
Only death 
recorded 
Only death 
recorded 
Only death 
recorded 
p.o. x5: ↓ white 
blood cells at low 
dose >5 ↓ red 
blood cells, 
haemoglobin 
No other 
information 
i.p. prior to death: 
diarrhea, weight 
loss, dyspnea, 
bloody masks 
p.o.: N.A. 
haematocrit↓ 
peripheral 
lymphocytes↓ 
prothombin time ↓ 
coagulation time↑ 
  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Page 13 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repeat dose toxicity data were derived primarily from 3 published studies summarised below: 
Table 2: Repeat dose toxicity studies 
Species 
Réf. 
Route, dose, 
duration 
Major findings 
Mouse 
(Swiss) 
10 M/ groupa 
et 
Halliday 
al, 1958 
Mouse 
(Swiss) 
10 M/ groupb 
Halliday 
al, 1958 
et 
Mouse 
(Swiss) 
10 M/ group 
Halliday 
al, 1958 
et 
Rat (Wistar) 
10F/ group 
Sloboda et al, 
1960 
Rat (Wistar) 
M 
(number 
not reported) 
et 
Halliday 
al, 1958 
Rat (Wistar) 
(number 
M 
not reported) 
et 
Halliday 
al, 1958 
Rat (Wistar) 
6M/ 
point 
time 
Oral 
2.5, 5, 10, 20, 
40 mg/kg/day 
5 days 
IP 
3.1, 6.25, 
12.5, 25 
mg/kg/day 
5 days 
Oral 
5, 10, 18.75, 
37.5, 75 
mg/kg/day 
4 – 46 daysc  
(5 days/ week) 
IP 
2.83-5.76 
mg/kg/day 
6 days 
IP 
5 days (doses 
not 
mentioned) 
IP 
4 mg/kg/day 
5 days 
LD50 = approx. 35mg/kg/day (multiple oral doses) 
No gross or microscopic pathology was conducted. 
LD50 = 18 mg/kg/day (multiple ip doses) 
No gross or microscopic pathology was conducted. 
No  mortality  was  seen  at  5  mg/kg/day.  At  ≥  10  mg/kg/day  death 
generally  occurred  between  the  4th  and  the  26th  day.  Doses  ≥18.8 
mg/kg/day were lethal to all mice. 
Five  animals  initially  surviving  the  10  mg/kg/d  and  all  mice 
surviving  5  mg/kg/d  were  examined  for  effects  of  thiotepa  on 
haematology  on  day  31  after  first  doses.  No  significant  effect  was 
noted  except  for  a  significant  reduction  in  circulating  white  blood 
cells. 
LD50 = 3.5 mg/kg/day 
LD50 = 3.9 mg/kg/day (multiple ip doses) 
Mortality  occurred  2-3  days  after  the  final  injection.  At  gross 
examination,  bone  marrow  and  intestinal  contents  were  fluid.  At 
microscopic  examination,  the  nucleated  elements  of  the  bone 
marrow  showed  95%  depletion,  the  thymus  involuted,  and  changes 
(unspecified) were noted in all parts of intestinal tract. 
IP 
5 mg/kg/day 
Haematological,  gross  and  histopathological  examinations  were 
performed  on  day  2,  4  and  7  after  treatment  completion  (+predose 
for haematology). 
4 days 
et 
Halliday 
al, 1958 
Rat (albino) 
6M/ group 
Cappiello  et 
al, 1960 
SC 
0, 0.5, 1 
mg/kg/day 
Haematology:  platelet,  WBC,  polymorphonuclear neutrophils, 
 hematocrit,  reticulocytes 
Gross  examination:  fluid  marrow,  small  thymus,  ,  haemorrhages  in 
lymph nodes and serosa of the bowel 
Microscopic  examination:  depletion  of  nucleated  elements  in  bone 
marrow,  thymus  involution,    lymphocytes  in  lymph  nodes  and 
splenic follicles 
 body weight gain,  food consumption (≥ 0.5 mg/kg) 
Organ weights:  thymus weight (≥ 0.5 mg/kg), spleen weight (≥ 
0.5 mg/kg),  liver weight (1 mg/kg),  kidney weight (1 mg/kg),  
Page 14 of 78 
 
 
Species 
Réf. 
Route, dose, 
duration 
14 days 
Dog 
1-2/sex/group 
Halliday 
al, 1958 
et 
Oral 
0.5, 1, 2 
mg/kg/day 
14 days  
Major findings 
lungs weight (1 mg/kg), testes weight (1 mg/kg) 
Haematology:  WBC,  lymphocytes (1 mg/kgd) 
Microscopic examination: slight atrophy of lymph nodules, lack of 
erythromyelosis in the spleen, kidney changes (tubular dilatation, 
tubular vacuolization),  nucleated cells and in bone marrow (1 
mg/kg) 
Mortality: 4/4 on days 9-11 at 2 mg/kg, 1/2 on day 14 at 1 mg/kg 
Clinical  signs:  anorexia,  weight 
loss,  hyperthermia,  diarrhea, 
vomiting (1 and 2 mg/kg), corneal opacity exudate from the eyes (2 
mg/kg) 
(5 days/ week) 
Haematology  (performed  in  the  high  dose  group  only):  near 
disappearance  of  WBC  (all  types)  and  platelets,  virtually  total 
depletion of the bone marrow 
Biochemistry  (performed 
the  high  dose  group  only):   
sulfobromophthalein  retention,    ALP    slightly  impaired  liver 
function.    blood  glucose,  which  may  be  a  consequence  of  liver 
inadequacy 
in 
Gross  examination  (performed  in  the  high  dose  group  only): 
widespread  haemorrhages  (lymph  nodes,  GI  tract,  lungs,  heart, 
peritoneal surfaces), ulcerations in oral cavity 
Histopathological  examination  (performed  in  one  high  dosed  dog 
only): Changes in the intestinal tract, lymph nodes, spleen and tonsil 
were  essentially  related  to  the  haemorrhages  noted  above  (sections 
of  bone  marrow  were  not  present).  In  the  lungs,  in  addition  to  the 
haemorrhages, some of the alveoli contained edema fluid, fibrin and 
karyorrhectic  debris,  but  without  inflammatory  cells  (“acellular 
pneumonia”). 
Mortality: 4/4 on days 9-10 at 1 mg/kg 
IV 
0.25, 0.5, 1 
mg/kg/day 
Clinical  signs:  anorexia,  hyperthermia,  diarrhea,  epistaxis,  rectal 
bleeding (1 mg/kg) 
14 days  
Haematology (performed in the high dose group only): see oral study 
(5 days/ week) 
Biochemistry (performed in the high dose group only): see oral study 
Dog 
1-2/sex/group 
Halliday 
al, 1958 
et 
Gross examination (performed in the high dose group only): see oral 
study 
Histopathological  examination  (performed  in  one  high  dosed  dog 
only): 
Virtually  100%  depletion  of  nucleated  elements  in  bone  marrow 
which contained only congested vessels filled with red cells 
The  duodenum  and  remainder  of  small  intestines  showed  villous 
haemorrhages,  denuded  villi,  slight  atypis  of  the  deep  glandular 
epithelial  elements,  occasional  dilated  glands,    mononuclear  cells 
in the mucosa. The large intestine showed only haemorrhages. 
The lymph nodes contained many red cells in the sinuses as well as 
areas  of  haemorrhage.  Virtually  all  lymphocytes  had  disappeared 
and only large mononuclear and plasma cells remained. The splenic 
follicles  were  reduced  in  size  and  perifollicular  haemorrhages  were 
present. 
The  tonsils  were  ulcerated  and  contained  necrotic  debris  and 
numerous  bacterial  colonies.  The  only  inflammatory  cells  were 
Page 15 of 78 
Species 
Réf. 
Route, dose, 
duration 
Major findings 
mononuclear  cells.  Bacterial  colonies  were  also  nioted  in  the  lung, 
one  lymph  node,  and  the  heart,  but  no  cellular  reaction  or  necrosis 
was associated with them. 
a  9 M in the group dosed at 10 mg/kg/day 
b  5 M in the group dosed at 3.1 mg/kg/day 
c 
d  on days 7 and 14 of treatment 
treatment duration varied according to death rate; treatment duration amounted to 46 days in groups dosed at 5 and 10 
mg/kg/day, 37 days in the group dosed at 18.75 mg/kg/day, and 4 days in the groups dosed at 37.5 and 75 mg/kg/day 
  Genotoxicity 
The genotoxicity of thiotepa is well established based on numerous studies. These were reviewed by 
the  International  Agency  for  Research  on  Cancer  (IARC,  1990),  while  the  Applicant  additionally 
submitted some key publications (Bochkov et al, 1981; Breau et al, 1984, Rao et al, 2005).  
According  to  IARC  (1990),  thiotepa  induced  chromosomal  aberrations  in  germ  cells,  sperm 
abnormalities and dominant lethal mutation in mice in vivo. It induced micronuclei in the bone marrow 
of  rats  and  mice,  chromosomal  aberrations  in  bone  marrow  cells  and  liver  cells  of  mice  and  in 
peripheral  lymphocytes  of  rabbits  and  rhesus  monkeys.  It  also  caused  sister  chromatid  exchange  in 
bone-marrow cells of mice in vivo.  
Thiotepa  induced  DNA  damage  in  chick  embryos.  It  induced  chromosomal  aberrations  in  cloned 
hamster  cells,  in  Chinese  hamster  cells  and  in  human  cells,  sister  chromatid  exchange  in  human, 
mouse,  Chinese  hamster  and  rabbit  cells,  gene  mutations  in  Chinese  hamster  cells  and  unscheduled 
DNA  synthesis  in  human  peripheral  lymphocytes  in  vitro.  It  induced  cell  transformation  in  mouse 
cells.  Thiotepa  induced  sex-linked  recessive  lethal  mutations  in  Drosophila  and  sister  chromatid 
exchange  and  chromosomal  aberrations  in  Vicia  faba.  It  induced  gene  mutations  in  Aspergillus 
nidulans and Salmonella typhimurium. 
Bochkov et al (1981) reviewed and compared the mutagenicity of 3 alkylating compounds, including 
thiotepa  and  its  metabolite  TEPA.  Mutagenic  and  genotoxic  effects  are  reported  in  a  number  of  in 
vitro and in vivo models.  
Comparing  the  mutagenic  activity  in  the  Ames  assay  with  antineoplasitc  activity  against  different 
human cell lines, Breau et al (1984) assumed that growth was inhibited at concentrations that induced 
mutagenicity. 
Recently,  Rao  et  al  (2005)  evaluated  in  non  human  primates  the  extent  to  which  genotoxicity  of 
thiotepa was dependent on the schedule of administration by giving the drug as either a bolus or a 96-
hour continuous infusion. They quantified the chromosomal aberrations in bone marrow cells on days 
1, 2, 5 and 28 of the study. They showed that thiotepa produced more abnormal metaphases following 
bolus administration compared to a 96 h infusion. So, they concluded that infusion of thiotepa is less 
genotoxic to normal bone marrow cells than is bolus administration. 
  Carcinogenicity 
The  IARC  (1990)  classified  thiotepa  as  being  carcinogenic  to  humans  (group  1)  based  on  sufficient 
studies in humans that indicate a causal relationship between exposure to thiotepa and human cancer. 
The review of human carcinogenicity data showed that several cases of leukaemia following treatment 
with thiotepa alone have been reported. One case-control study showed a strong combination between 
risk for leukaemia and treatment with thiotepa. 
The  findings  in  humans  were  supported  by  carcinogenicity  studies  in  mice  and  rats.  The  National 
Cancer  Institute  (1978)  concluded  that  thiotepa  is  carcinogenic  in  both  Sprague-Dawley  rats  and 
B6C3F1  mice  under  the  experimental  conditions  used  (intraperitoneal  administration  of  up  to  2.3 
mg/kg in mice and 2.8 mg/kg in rats, 3 administrations per week for up to 52 weeks). In the rats, it 
induced  squamous  cell  carcinoma  of  the  skin  or  ear  canal  in  both  males  and  females,  and 
haematopoietic neoplasms in the males. In the mice, it induced lymphoma or lymphocytic leukaemia 
in both sexes and squamous-cell carcinoma in the skin and associated glands of males. 
In particular mice strains (A/J and A/He) where increased rates of pulmonary tumours are common, 
intraperitoneal  administration  of  thiotepa  (3x/  week  for  4  weeks)  was  shown  to  further  increase  the 
Page 16 of 78 
 
 
 
 
rate of lung tumours and to shorten their induction time (Shimkin et al 1966; Stoner et al 1973). 
Rats  treated  with  thiotepa  by  intravenous  infusion  (1x/week  for  52  weeks)  developed  benign  and 
malignant tumours at multiple sites, including the abdominal cavity, mammary gland, blood vessels, 
bone marrow, lymphatic system, salivary glands, adrenal gland and testes (Schmahl et al. 1970). 
  Reproduction Toxicity 
It  is  well  established  that  thiotepa  may  cause  impaired  fertility  in  animals  and  humans  (NCI,  1979; 
NIH, 2002).  
In the studies by Evenson et al (1986) and Meistrich et al (1982), impaired fertility and interference 
with spermatogenesis were observed in male mice.  
Adams  et  al  (1961)  investigated  the  effects  of  thiotepa  in  early  embryonic  development  in  rabbits. 
Rabbits  were  given  thiotepa  in  parenteral  doses  of  3-10  mg/kg,  during  the  blastocyst  stage  and 
implantation  was  determined.  Thiotepa  given  on  days  3,  4,  5  and  6  affected  all  blastocysts.  The 
histological appearance of the 6.5-day embryo depended on the timing of treatment: the earlier it was 
given,  the  more  drastic  the  effect.  Intervals  of  9  hours  allowed  the  recognition  of  the  specific 
blastocyst  stage.  After  treatment  on  day  3  or  4,  only  small  thin  embryonic  discs  containing  a  few 
granules remained. The effect seemed to be exerted mainly on the embryonic disc rather than on the 
trophoblast. Moreover, lethality of low doses (3 mg/kg on day 6-8) of thiotepa to rabbit foetuses was 
observed without the need for special experiments. 
Teratogenic effects of thiotepa were investigated in mice by Tanimura et al (1968). The lethal effects 
on  the  foetus  were  dose  dependent  above  7.5  mg/kg.  The  dose  required  to  kill  all  foetuses  was  10 
mg/kg on day 8.5 of gestation and increased to 20 mg/kg on day 10.5 of gestation. In addition, growth 
suppression under treatment was also demonstrated. 
Examination of the cleared specimens revealed additional skeletal abnormalities. First, malformations 
of  the  skeleton,  especially  the  axial,  were  numerous.  In  the  vertebrae,  fusion  of  the  arches  and 
deformations of the bodies were found. Early infusion (day 6.5) affected mainly the superior cervical 
vertebrae,  at  later  infusion  until  day  10.5  malformation  descended  caudally.  Rib  anomalies  such  as 
fusion and waviness occurred with marked stage specificity. In general, some of the same anomalies 
listed above can also be caused by other teratogens. 
Infusion  in  the  early  post-implantation  stage  (day  4.5-5.5)  of  7.5  mg/kg  was  not  found  to  alter 
significantly  the  implantation  rate,  foetal  mortality  and  incidence  of  malformed  foetuses.  Survivors 
were found to have considerably reduced body and placental weights. 
Repeated  infusions  of  0.5  mg/kg  from  day  0.5-12.5  were  not  found  to  cause  significant  differences 
concerning the implantation site or foetal mortality. 
  Toxicokinetic data 
No studies were submitted (see discussion on non-clinical aspects). 
  Local tolerance  
No studies were submitted. 
  Other toxicity studies 
No studies were submitted. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The PECsurface  water  was calculated taking into account that in Europe there are 25000 Haematopoietic 
Progenitor Cells Transplants each year. 
The Fpen was found to be 6.85.10-5 µg/L (which is lower than the limit value of  0.01 g/L). 
Page 17 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
There  is  consistent  evidence  from  years  of  numerous  studies  and  clinical  practice  that  thiotepa 
possesses  anti-tumour  activity  by  alkylating  activity.  The  metabolites  TEPA,  monochloro-tepa  and 
thiotepa-mercaptoturate  also  have  such  an  activity.  Both  thiotepa  and  tepa  bind  to  DNA,  RNA  and 
presumably  proteins  and  inhibit  DNA,  RNA  and  protein  synthesis  with  IC50  values  in  the  low 
micromolar range, thiotepa being the most active. 
Published  data  were  submitted  to  support  the  therapeutic  indication  proposed  for  Tepadina,  i.e. 
conditioning  treatment  prior  to  conventional  haematopoietic  progenitor  cell  transplantation.  The 
myeloablative  effect  of  thiotepa  was  studied  in  mice  undergoing  allogenic  bone  marrow 
transplantation.  In  a  first  study,  the  combination  of  total  body  irradiation  (TBI)  and  thiotepa  (10 
mg/kg, i.v.) was shown to have similar effect in terms of donor engraftment as the combination of TBI 
and  busulfan  (20  mg/kg,  oral).  However,  the  interval  between  thiotepa  administration  and  stem  cell 
transfusion  had  to  be  increased  (at  least  2  days)  to  obtain  similar  recipient  survival.  Other  authors 
suggested  that  the  effectiveness  of  thiotepa  in  allogenic  graft  tolerance  is  due  to  its  immune 
suppressive properties rather than to depletion of the host primitive stem cell pool. 
No  conventional  safety  pharmacology  data  is  available.  This  is  acceptable  due  to  the  significant 
experience  available  in  humans  with  thiotepa.  For  the  same  reason,  pharmacological  drug-drug 
interactions should be directly handled clinically. 
In terms of pharmacokinetics, the submitted studies were conducted since the 1960s using analytical 
methods  available  at  that  time,  which  were  non-specific,  insensitive,  and  not  in  conformity  with 
current regulatory expectations. Results did not allow making a reliable estimation of pharmacokinetic 
parameters currently required by the ICH S3 guidelines. Recently, modern assay methods have been 
developed including GC, HPLC, LC-MS, NMR, but these were not validated. 
There was no integration between pharmacokinetic studies and the toxicology studies in the form of 
toxicokinetic  investigations.  The  metabolism  of  thiotepa  was  almost  complete  and  metabolites  were 
partially  characterized  in  published  studies.  In  general,  thiotepa  and  its  metabolites  were 
predominantly excreted via urinary excretion; however there was no balance study. It is not clear that 
data from pharmacokinetic studies conducted in animals are similar to those obtained in patients. 
Overall, the whole pharmacokinetic section relies heavily on the review published by Van Maanen et 
al,  2000.  In  this  review,  it  is  concluded  that  limited  data  exist  on  the  pharmacokinetic  properties  of 
thiotepa, especially when high doses are administered. It is impossible to extrapolate from animal to 
human  and  estimate  any  safety  margin.  However,  due  to  the  toxicity  of  thiotepa  and  its  specific 
therapeutic  use,  it  can  be  considered  that  the  concept  of  safety  margin  does  not  make  sense  in  this 
case, since only the expected clinical benefit could justify the use of such a drug. 
Single  dose  toxicity  studies  submitted  to  support  the  MAA  of  Tepadina  showed  that  the  LD50  of 
thiotepa obtained in rodents (intraperitoneal route) and dogs (intravenous route) are in the range of the 
therapeutic  dose  proposed  for  Tepadina.  Death  was  noted  a  couple  of  days  after  administration. 
Besides  clinical  findings,  haematological  toxicity  was  recorded.  No  unexpected  toxicity  occurred. 
However,  neither  histopathological  nor  toxicokinetic  data  were  available  in  single  or  repeat-dose 
studies.  The  sparse  distribution  data  suggest  that  thiotepa  distributes  evenly  to  other  organs  where 
toxicity  would  be  expected  due  to  the  reactive  nature  of  thiotepa.  Furthermore,  the  reversibility  of 
toxic effects is unknown.  
Only  one  repeat-dose  study  is  available  with  the  intended  route  of  administration,  i.e  a  14-day  dog 
study  (Halliday  et  al,  1958).  Strong  haematological  and  bone  marrow  toxicity  were  observed  and 
slightly  impaired  liver  function  was  noted.  Death  occurred  at  1  mg/kg/day.  In  rats  treated 
subcutaneously  at  1  mg/kg/day  for  14  days,  severe  effects  on  the  haematological  system,  bone 
marrow,  body  weight,  as  well  as  decreases  in  thymus,  spleen  and  liver  weight  were  reported.  It  is 
noted that these studies do not meet the current standards, which is not unexpected taking into account 
that they were performed approximately 50 years ago. 
The  very  limited  animal  safety  database  regarding  the  long-term  effects  of  thiotepa  is  accepted. 
Indeed,  it  is  acknowledged  that  further  non-clinical  studies  would  provide  only  limited  additional 
information  regarding  the  long-term  toxicity  of  thiotepa.  Furthermore,  conclusions  obtained  from 
clinical  safety  data  are  complicated  by  the  co-administration  of  other  drugs  and  the  highly  variable 
therapeutic  context.  Section  5.3  of  the  SPC  correctly  reflects  the  lack  of  information  regarding  the 
toxicity of thiotepa. 
Page 18 of 78 
 
Thiotepa was shown to be genotoxic in various in vitro and in vivo tests. It was also carcinogenic in 
studies performed in rodents. Thiotepa was classified as carcinogenic to humans by the International 
Agency for Research on Cancer; a strong combination between risk for leukaemia and treatment with 
thiotepa  was  shown  in  one  case-control  study.  Those  results  are  not  unexpected  in  view  of  the 
alkylating properties of the drug. 
Thiotepa was shown to impair fertility and interfere with spermatogenesis in male mice and to impair 
ovarian  function  in  female  mice.  It  was  teratogenic  in  mice  and  in  rats,  and  foeto-lethal  in  rabbits. 
These effects were seen at doses lower than the recommended therapeutic dose. As a result, thiotepa is 
contraindicated during pregnancy and lactation. Women of childbearing potential have to use effective 
contraception during treatment and a pregnancy test should be performed before treatment is started, 
while  male patients should seek for sperm  cryopreservation before therapy is started and should not 
father while treated and during the year after cessation of treatment. 
The  PECsurface  water  value  for  Tepadina  is  approximately  150-fold  lower  than  the  limit  value  of 
0.01µg/L.  To  fulfil  the  Phase  1  assessment,  the  applicant  still  has  to  determine  experimentally  an 
octanol-water partition coefficient value in accordance with the current OECD guidelines. 
2.5 Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
For  this  bibliographical  application,  the  Applicant  has  submitted  clinical  studies  performed  in  adult 
and paediatric patients based on the published literature. 
The  Applicant  proposed  an  indication  for  Tepadina  as  conditioning  treatment  prior  to  conventional 
haematopoietic  progenitor  cell  transplantation  (HPCT)  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients.  This  was 
modified during the assessment procedure and the finally approved indication was as follows: 
In combination with other chemotherapy medicinal products:  
1)  with  or  without  total  body  irradiation  (TBI),  as  conditioning  treatment  prior  to  allogeneic  or 
autologous haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in haematological diseases in adult 
and paediatric patients;  
2) when high dose chemotherapy with HPCT support is appropriate for the treatment of solid tumours 
in adult and paediatric patients. 
The  posology  of  Tepadina  is  variable  and  it  depends  on  age,  disease  setting,  type  of  transplant 
(autologous vs allogeneic) used and type of chemotherapy regimen to which Tepadina is incorporated. 
GCP 
The  applicant  has  not  conducted  as  yet  any  additional  clinical  studies.  Scientific  data  were  cited  if 
published in peer-reviewed journals. As a rule, however, this conveys no statement on the degree of 
GCP-compliance of such investigations and trials. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The following tables report the main pharmacokinetic characteristics of thiotepa in adult populations 
after intravenous administration at the dosages of 11.8-900 mg/m2 and in paediatric populations after 
intravenous administration at the dosage of 25-300 mg/m2. 
Table 3: Summary of thiotepa pharmacokinetic characteristics in adults 
References 
Dose 
mg/m2 
12.0 
12.5a 
12.5 
11.8 
17.6 
37.5 
50.0 
30.0 
Patients 
(N) 
21 
6 
6 
6 
6 
13 
13 
5 
Vd 
(L/m2) 
26.6 a 
31.0 a 
30.9 
31.8 
28.2 
nr 
nr 
65.9 
CL 
(L/h/m2) 
11.2 
15.5 
13.9 
12.0 
10.9 
16.7 
15.7 
34.9 
T1/2 
(h) 
2.1 
1.4 
1.6 
1.9 
1.8 
2.4 
2.3 
1.3 
Cohen BE et al, 1986 
Hagen B et al, 1987  
Hagen B et al, 1990 
Hagen B et al, 1988 
Hagen B et al, 1991 
O’Dwyer PJ et al, 1991 
Page 19 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40.0 
55.0 
65 
75 
45-270 
80-120  
67.5 a 
216 a 
288 a 
420 a 
180 
360 
500 
700 
900 
3 
3 
5 
5 
16 
35 
3 
3 
5 
3 
5 
5 
2 
3 
3 
72.0 
47.3 
68.6 
64.4 
60.0 a 
40.8 
58.5 a 
68.2 a 
75.0 a 
53.8 a 
nr 
nr 
nr 
nr 
nr 
43.7 
46.7 
22.9 
18.9 
16.2 
19.0 
14.3 
14.6 
22.9 
7.8 
23.2 
17.9 
13.4 
11.3 
11.4 
1.5 
1.7 
2.2 
2.1 
2.6 
1.5 
2.3 
2.3 
2.3 
4.1 
nr 
nr 
nr 
nr 
nr 
Lazarus HM et al, 1987 
Huitema  AD et al, 2000/ 2001 
Ackland SP et al, 1988 
Henner WD et al, 1987  
aParameter estimated from mean body weight 60 kg/surface 1.6 m2 
Table 3: Summary of thiotepa pharmacokinetic characteristics in paediatric patients 
Dose 
mg/m2 
25 
50 
65 
75 
300 
Patients 
(N) 
3 
4 
5 
5 
10 
  Absorption  
Vd 
(L/m2) 
18.4 
29.6 
22.0 
25.0 
19.4 
CL 
(L/h/m2) 
28.6 
15.7 
15.4 
11.9 
11.3 
T1/2 
(h) 
1.7 
1.8 
1.3 
2.0 
1.3 
References 
Heideman RL et al, 1989  
Kletzel M et al, 1992 
No  studies  were  submitted  (see  discussion  on  clinical  pharmacology).  The  Applicant  stated  that 
thiotepa is unreliably absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract: acid instability prevents thiotepa from 
being administered orally.  
  Distribution 
Thiotepa  is  a  highly  lipophilic  compound.  According  to  the  Applicant,  after  intravenous 
administration,  plasma  concentrations  of  the  active  substance  fit  a  two  compartment  model  with  a 
rapid distribution phase.  
In adults, the volume of distribution was calculated at 40-75 l/m² at doses between 30 and 420 mg/m². 
In children, the volume of distribution at steady state was calculated to be 18-29 l/m² at doses between 
25 and 75 mg/m² (Heideman et al, 1989). At 300 mg/m², the volume of distribution was within the 
same range (Kletzel M et al, 1992).  
The Applicant claimed that the apparent volume of distribution of thiotepa appears independent of the 
administered  dose.  The  fraction  unbound  to  proteins  in  plasma  is  70-90%;  insignificant  binding  of 
thiotepa to gamma globulin and minimal albumin binding (10-30%) has been reported. 
Thiotepa  and  the  main  metabolite,  TEPA,  penetrate  very  well  into  the  CSF;  CSF  and  plasma 
concentrations are comparable with a delayed CSF increase of TEPA (Heideman et al, 1989). 
  Elimination 
Thiotepa undergoes intensive hepatic metabolism, which in humans is known to be catalysed by the 
cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 2B6 and 3A4 (Jacobson et al, 2002). The low rate of urinary recovery, 
however, indicates substantial metabolism by other pathways as well. The major active metabolite is 
TEPA,  which  therefore  has  been  co-investigated  in  most  of  the  pharmacokinetic  investigations.  A 
second  metabolite  is  the  mercapturic  acid  conjugate  of  thiotepa  which  is  formed  via  glutathione 
conjugation. A third metabolite, monochloro-TEPA, was identified in the urine (reviewed in van Van 
Maanen et al., 2000).  
Page 20 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According  to  the  Applicant,  the  total  excreted  amount  of  thiotepa  and  its  identified  metabolites 
accounts  for  54-100%  of  the  total  alkylating  activity,  indicating  the  presence  of  other  alkylating 
metabolites.  During  conversion  of  GSH  conjugates 
to  N-acetylcysteine  conjugates,  GSH, 
cysteinylglycine, and cysteine conjugates are formed. These metabolites are not found in urine, and, if 
formed, are probably excreted in bile or as intermediate metabolites rapidly converted into thiotepa-
mercapturate. 
Reports on clearance rates vary in that some claim dose-dependence while others found clearance rates 
to  be  independent  of  the  dose.  The  total  clearance  of  thiotepa  ranged  from  11.4  to  23.2  l/h/m2.  The 
elimination half-life varied from 1.5 to 4.1 hours. 
  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Different  pharmacokinetic  investigations  of  thiotepa  reported  dose-independent  (Hagen  et  al,  1987; 
Hagen  et  al,  1988;  Hagen,  1991,  Ackland  et  al,  1988)  as  well  as  dose-dependent  (Heideman  et  al, 
1989) kinetics of this drug. The population pharmacokinetic study, which suggested a 2-compartment 
model, gave no indication for non-linearity, granted that the doses (up to 120 mg/m²/d) were not very 
high (Huitema et al, 2001). 
There was only one investigation looking at the continuous infusion of high dose thiotepa (Henner et 
al,  1987).  The  authors'  pharmacokinetic  estimations  showed  no  significant  difference  from  values 
obtained with the more intensively investigated bolus or short term infusion; they did, however, find 
plasma  levels  to  be  inconsistent  with  any  standard  pharmacokinetic  model.  The  levels  of  thiotepa 
decreased continuously during the 96 hour infusion. 
  Special populations 
There  are  no  pharmacokinetic  data  on  the  use  of  thiotepa  during  pregnancy  or  lactation,  in  elderly 
patients and in patients with significant pre-existing hepatic or renal insufficiency (see discussion on 
clinical pharmacology).  
  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
to 
the  cumulative 
thiotepa  contributes 
Generally, 
immunosuppressive  effect  of  high  dose 
chemotherapy schedules. In this context, vaccination with a live virus vaccine can result in severe and 
fatal infections. 
As a result of the claimed acid instability mentioned before, thiotepa should not be mixed with other 
medicinal products except those mentioned in section 6.6 of the SPC. 
Alkylating  chemotherapeutic  agents,  including  thiotepa,  inhibit  plasma  pseudocholinesterase  35%  to 
70%. The action of succinyl choline can be prolonged by 5 to 15 minutes. Thiotepa is an irreversible 
inhibitor of plasma cholinesterase activity (Drugdex(R) System). 
The  interaction  with  cyclophosphamide  is  well-known  and  argues  for  a  CYP2B6  inhibition  process. 
Using human liver microsomes and recombinant P450 enzymes, Rae et al (2002) were able to identify 
thiotepa as a potent and specific inhibitor of CYP2B6. As CYP2B6 may play an important role in the 
4-hydroxylation of cyclophosphamide, inhibition of this enzyme by thiotepa is the likely mechanism 
by  which  thiotepa  inhibits  the  activation  of  cyclophosphamide.  Huitema  et  al  (2000)  altered  the 
sequence of infusion of cyclophosphamide (1000-1500 mg/m²/d), carboplatin (265 or 400 mg/m²/d), 
and  thiotepa  (80  or  120  mg/m²/d)  and  analysed  the  pharmacokinetics  of  cyclophosphamide  and 
thiotepa.  Administration  of  thiotepa  one  hour  before  cyclophosphamide,  as  compared  to  the  reverse 
sequence, reduced the maximum concentration and the area under the curve of the active metabolite 4-
hydroxy-cyclophosphamide  by  -62%  and  -26%.  In  a  more  recent  publication  implementing  a 
hypothetical metabolic enzyme rather than investigating the effect of application sequence, the same 
group  described  a  modest  induction  of  thiotepa  metabolism  by  cyclophosphamide;  however,  in  the 
complex  area  of  active  metabolites  these  authors  are  the  first  to  estimate  the  clinical  relevance  of 
increased thiotepa clearance (de Jonge et al, 2004). 
A direct pharmacokinetic interaction has been reported for the antiemetic drug aprepitant (de Jonge et 
al.,  2005a).  Interactions  of  this  moderate  CYP3A4  inhibitor  were  investigated  in  8  patients  on  a 
conditioning  regimen  of  thiotepa,  cyclophosphamide,  and  carboplatin  using  the  population 
pharmacokinetic model based on 49 patients at the time. Aprepitant co-medication reduced the rate of 
Page 21 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cyclophosphamide  autoinduction  by  23%  and  TEPA  formation  by  33%.  The  authors  regarded  this 
effect  as  small  considering  the  overall  variability  of  the  metabolism  of  these  drugs;  they  proposed 
CYP3A4  and  2B6  inhibition  to  be  the  mechanistic  pathway,  but  they  introduced  the  discrimination 
between inducible and non-inducible clearance into their population pharmacokinetic model. 
  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
No studies were submitted (see discussion on clinical pharmacology). 
Pharmacodynamics 
  Mechanism of action 
Thiotepa is an alkylating agent chemically and pharmacologically related to nitrogen mustard and its 
clinically  utilised  derivatives.  Thiotepa  undergoes  complex  metabolism  with  TEPA  as  the  major 
metabolite.  Both  thiotepa  and  TEPA  are  active  compounds.  The  cellular  reaction  of  thioTEPA  with 
DNA primarily leads to the alkylation of guanine and adenine, producing inter- and intra-strand cross-
links which in turn are responsible for the inactivation of DNA and for cytotoxicity. TEPA is assumed 
to interact differently with DNA, but is also thought to produce DNA lesions. Monochloro-TEPA and 
thiotepa-mercapturate (the other important metabolites) show alkylating activity as well (reviewed in 
van Maanen et al., 2000). 
  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  action  of  thiotepa  is  to  damage  the  DNA  and  cellular  structure  of 
malignant cells. With regards to the sought indication, myelotoxicity of thiotepa and its metabolites in 
general can be considered of relevance. A number of published phase I and II studies were submitted, 
in which the MTD of thiotepa was investigated; reported toxicities included myelotoxicity (studies not 
described). 
Secondary  to  DNA  damage,  tumour  cell  toxicity  and  effects  on  the  haematopoietic  system,  other 
pharmacologic  effects  have  also  been  observed.  They  encompass  the  complete  range  of  unintended 
effects  which  are  always  linked  to  alkylating  drugs  including  alopecia,  gastrointestinal  toxicity, 
mutagenicity,  carcinogenicity,  and  impairment  of  fertility.  No  studies  addressing  the  well-known 
mechanisms of these secondary pharmacologic effects were submitted.  
Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The  principal  pharmacokinetic  data  tabulated  above  show  the variability  of  the  main  PK  parameters 
(Vd, CL, AUC, T1/2) of thiotepa over the wide range of doses used in the published studies and that 
the elimination time of thiotepa is independent of the dosage. 
Absorption  data  are  not  considered  relevant  for  the  current  application  due  to  the  suggested 
intravenous administration of thiotepa. 
The metabolism and elimination of thiotepa can be considered sufficiently well characterised. 
Pharmacokinetic data in special populations are not available. The absence of information in hepatic 
and renal insufficiency patients is reflected in the SPC. Relevant contraindications or precautions with 
regard  to  fertility,  pregnancy  and  lactation  are  included  in  the  relevant  sections  of  the  SPC.  As  few 
elderly patients (> 65 years old) are expected to undergo HPCT, the lack of PK data in elderly patients 
is accepted and the information provided in the SPC is considered satisfactory. 
All  relevant  interactions  with  other  medicinal  products  are  reflected  in  section  4.5  of  the  SPC.  A 
contraindication  for  the  concomitant  use  with  the  yellow  fever  vaccine  and  with  live  virus  and 
bacterial vaccines is included in section 4.3 of the SPC and warnings related to drug-drug interactions 
are included in the SPC, section 4.4. 
The mechanism of action of thiotepa is well-known. Thiotepa belongs to the alkylating substances for 
which clinical experience dates back roughly 50 years.  
Clinical efficacy  
Page 22 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Applicant  submitted  clinical  studies  performed  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients  based  on  the 
published  literature.  The  data  are  presented  separately  for  adults  and  paediatric  populations,  and  for 
autologous and allogeneic HPCT. 
THIOTEPA IN ADULTS 
   Autologous HPCT 
   Allogeneic HPCT 
   Haematological Diseases 
   Haematological Diseases 
   Lymphoma 
   CNS Lymphoma 
   Multiple Myeloma 
Solid Tumours 
   Breast Cancer 
   CNS Tumours 
   Ovarian Cancer 
   Germ Cell Tumours  
   Lymphoma 
   Multiple Myeloma 
   Not otherwhise specified 
Leukemia 
   Thalassemia 
Autologous HPCT in adult patients 
A total of 4501 patients with haematological diseases (N=826) and with solid/CNS tumours (N=3675) 
received thiotepa i.v. as conditioning regimen before autologous HPCT. 
Table 5: Autologous HPCT in adult patients 
 DISEASE  CHARACTERISTIC 
CONDITIONING 
TREATMENT 
N PTS 
AUTHORS 
Haemato-
logical 
diseases 
Lymphoma 
CNS Lymphoma 
TT/BU/MEL 
TT/BU/CY 
TT/MEL/CARB 
TT/MITOX/CARB 
TT/CARB/VP16 
TT/VP16/CY 
TT/VP16 
TT/CARM 
TT/BU 
Multiple Myeloma 
TT/BU/CY 
Sub-total 
Solid 
tumours 
Breast cancer 
TT/CY 
Page 23 of 78 
204 
34 
42 
125 
31 
29 
65 
23 
16 
257 
826 
566 
Gopal et al, 2001; 
Gutierrez-Delgado et al, 
2001; Gutierrez-Delgado 
et al, 2003 
Przepiorka et al, 1995 
Demirer et al, 2004 
Waheed et al, 2004; 
Glossmann et al, 2005 
Papadopoulos et al, 2005 
Cumpston et al, 2007 
McCoy et al, 2004 
Illerhaus et al, 2006 
Montemurro et al, 2007 
Dimopoulos et al, 1993; 
Shimoni et al, 2001; 
Anagnostopoulos et al, 
2004 
Tallman et al, 2003; 
Leonard et al, 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
TT/CY/CARB 
2119 
TT/CY/CARM 
TT/CY/EPIR 
TT/CY/MITOX 
TT/ MITOX/CARB 
TT alone 
TT/VP16/CARM 
TT/VP16/CARB 
CNS tumours 
TT alone 
Ovarian cancer 
Germ Cell tumours 
TT/CARB 
TT/CARM 
TT/BU/MEL 
TT alone 
TT/CARB/VP16 
341 
201 
150 
28 
52 
15 
3 
59 
21 
10 
31 
17 
62 
Weaver et al, 1997; 
Stemmer et al, 2001;  
Stemmer et al, 2003; 
Rodenhuis et al, 2003; 
Rodenhuis et al, 2006; 
Schrama et al, 2003; 
Coombes et al, 2005 
Wong et al, 2003; Cheng 
et al, 2004 
Nitz et al, 2005 
Zander et al, 2004 
Yalamanchili et al, 2008 
Rose et al, 2000 
Papadopoulos et al, 1998 
Papadopoulos et al, 1998 
Cairncross et al, 2000; 
Abrey et al, 2006 
Chen et al, 2004 
Gill et al, 2008 
Holmberg et al, 1998 
Tiersten et al, 2006 
Rick et al, 2001 
Sub-total 
TOTAL 
BU=busulfan; CARB=carboplatin; CARM=carmustine; CISPL=cisplatin; CY=cyclophosphamide; 
EPIR=epirubicine; MEL= melphalan; MITOX= mitoxantrone; TT = thiotepa; VP16=etoposide 
3675 
4501 
Haematological diseases 
Adults  with  haematological  diseases  (N=826)  comprised  569  patients  with  lymphomas  and  257 
patients with multiple myeloma. 
- In Gopal et al, 2001, Gutierrez-Delgado et al, 2001 and Gutierrez-Delgado et al, 2003, lymphoma 
patients (N=204) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan and melphalan. 
Engraftment at 92%, OS at 42%, EFS at 39% and 5-year relapse at 42% were reported in Gutierrez-
Delgado et al, 2001. Engraftment at 92%, estimated OS at 52%, EFS at 34% and 5-years relapse at 
32% were shown in Gutierrez-Delgado et al, 2003. EFS at 45% and relapse at 33% were reported in 
Gopal et al, 2001. In these three studies most patients were at high risk because of their very advanced 
disease or prior dose-limiting radiation therapy.  
-  In  Przepiorka  et  al,  1995,  lymphoma  patients  (N=34)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
busulfan and cyclophosphamide. This was a dose finding study combining thiotepa (from 450 to 750 
mg/m2),  busulfan  (from  12  to  10  mg/kg)  and  cyclophosphamide  (from  120  to  150  mg/kg).  The 
combination of thiotepa at 450 mg/kg or 750 mg/kg, cyclophosphamide and busulfan provided good 
efficacy in term of OS and DFS despite the advanced status of disease (data not shown). 
- In Demirer et al, 2004, lymphoma patients (N=42) received thiotepa in combination with melphalan 
and  carboplatin.  This  conditioning  treatment was  given  to  patients  with  intermediate-grade  NHL  or 
HD,  with  HD  representing  45%  of  patients.  OS,  EFS,  relapse  estimated  at  2  years  were  reported  at 
65%, 60% and 21%, respectively.  
- In Waheed et al, 2004 and Glossmann et al, 2005, lymphoma patients (N=125) received thiotepa in 
combination  with  mitoxantrone  and  carboplatin.  5-year  DFS  was  estimated  at  43%  in  high  risk 
patients (Waheed et al, 2004). This conditioning treatment was also evaluated in autologous tandem 
transplantation making the sequencial high-dose chemotherapy feasible with the BEAM treatment in 
patients who could receive both transplants (Glossmann et al, 2005). 
-  In  Papadopoulos  et  al,  2005,  lymphoma  patients  (N=31)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
carboplatin  and  etoposide.  The  regimen  was  a  tandem  HD  chemotherapy  represented  by  melphalan 
and mitoxantrone followed by thiotepa, carboplatin and etoposide. Tandem regimen was administered 
to  only  31  patients.  The  results  in  term  of  efficacy  are  comparable  with  standard  regimens  used  in 
Page 24 of 78 
 
 
HPCT  to  treat  lymphomas,  but  the  number  of  patients  enrolled  in  this  study  is  too  small  to  be 
compared with other strategies. 
-  In  Cumpston  et  al,  2007,  lymphoma  patients  (N=29)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide and etoposide. This conditioning regimen showed DFS at 66% and OS at 76%. 
- In McCoy et al, 2004, lymphoma patients (N=65) received thiotepa in combination with etoposide. 
This aggressive high-dose thiotepa-etoposide regimen used in high risk patients was accompanied at 3 
years by an OS of 40% and an EFS of 32%. 
-  In  Illerhaus  et  al,  2006,  CNS  lymphoma  patients  (N=23)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
carmustine. The survival rate (87%) at 5 years was 87% and it was associated with a relapse mortality 
rate of 8.7%, which suggests that this protocol may be curative in a substantial proportion of patients. 
High doses of the alkylating agents carmustine and thiotepa were chosen as they are able to penetrate 
the intact blood brain barrier due to their lipophilic properties.  
- In Montemurro et al, 2007, CNS lymphoma patients (N=16) received thiotepa in combination with 
busulfan. This approach was accompanied with good response rates and no severe neurotoxicity. 
-  In  Dimopoulos  et  al,  1993,  Shimoni  et  al,  2001  and  Anagnostopoulos  et  al,  2004,  multiple 
myeloma patients (N=257) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan and cyclophosphamide. All 
three  studies  suggested  that  a  regimen  including  thiotepa,  busulfan  and  cyclophosphamide  has 
comparable efficacy with the standard regimen including high dose melphalan. The different thiotepa 
doses used in these studies permitted decreases especially in the dose of busulfan while maintaining 
the same efficacy as the melphalan scheme in terms of engraftment and response of the disease. 
Solid tumours 
Adults with solid tumours (N=3675) comprised patients with breast cancer (N=3457), CNS tumours 
(N=108), ovarian cancer (N=48) and germ cell tumours (N=62). 
- In Tallman et al, 2003 and Leonard et al, 2004, breast cancer patients (N=566) received thiotepa in 
combination  with  cyclophosphamide.  Disease  Free  Survival  (DFS)  and  Overall  Survival  (OS)  at  6 
year were 49% and 58%, respectively. 
-  In  Weaver  et  al,  1997,  Stemmer  et  al,  2001  ,  Stemmer  et  al,  2003,  Rodenhuis  et  al,  2003, 
Rodenhuis  et  al,  2006,  Schrama  et  al,  2003  and  Coombes  et  al,  2005,  breast  cancer  patients 
(N=2119) received thiotepa in combination with cyclophosphamide and carboplatin. 
Engraftment was 98% in Weaver et al, 1997. In Rodenhuis et al, 2006, OS and RFS at 5 years were 
73% and 64.3%, respectively. In Coombes et al, 2005, OS was 66% and RFS was 59%. In Stemmer 
et al, 2001, OS and DFS with a median follow up of 51 months was 81% and 72% respectively. RFS 
was  65%  in  Rodenhuis  et  al,  2003.  High-dose  alkylating  therapy  improves  relapse-free  survival 
among patients with stage II or III cancer and 10 or more positive lymph nodes. This benefit may be 
confined  to  patients  with  HER2/neu-negative  tumours  (Rodenhuis  et  al,  2003).  Early  radiotherapy 
after  intensive  adjuvant  treatment  including  high-dose  chemotherapy  with  autologous  stem  cell 
transplantation is feasible and effective for patients with high-risk locally advanced breast carcinoma 
(Stemmer et al, 2001). Adjuvant chemotherapy followed by high-dose chemotherapy and autologous 
cell stem transplantation is feasible in patients with multinode positive stage II breast carcinoma and 
outcome  is  promising  (Stemmer  et  al,  2003).  The  results  suggest  that  a  subgroup  of  breast  cancer 
(HER2/neu-negative) is specifically sensitive to high-dose alkylating agents (Rodenhuis et al, 2006). 
-  In  Wong  et  al,  2003  and  Cheng  et  al,  2004,  breast  cancer  patients  (N=341)  received  thiotepa  in 
combination with cyclophosphamide and carmustine. With a median follow up of 63 months, OS and 
RFS were 68% and 62% respectively (Cheng et al, 2004). OS and RFS at a median follow up of 44.3 
months  were  74.7%  and  59.3%  (Wong  et  al,  2003).  High-dose  chemotherapy  with  thiotepa, 
cyclophosphamide and carmustine with autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation is feasible 
with comparable efficacy to other high dose chemotherapy regimens. 
-  In  Nitz  et  al,  2005,  breast  cancer  patients  (N=201)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide and epirubicine. Patients with at least nine positive nodes were randomly assigned 
to two courses of accelerated conventionally dosed epirubicin and cyclophosphamide followed or not 
by two courses of high-dose chemotherapy (epirubicin, cyclophosphamide and thiotepa supported by 
peripheral-blood progenitors). The primary endpoint was event-free survival.  
403  patients  were  enrolled;  201  were  assigned  high-dose  chemotherapy  and  202  conventional 
treatment. The mean number of positive nodes was 17.6, and median follow-up was 48.6 months. In 
high dose group OS was 87%, 78% and 73% at 2, 3 and 4 years, respectively. EFS was 71%, 60% and 
52% at 2, 3 and 4 years, respectively. 4 year event-free survival was 60% (95% CI 53-67) in the high-
Page 25 of 78 
 
dose  chemotherapy  group  and  44%  in  the  control  group  (p=0.00069).  The  corresponding  overall 
survival was 75% vs 70% (p=0.02).  
-  In  Zander  et  al,  2004,  breast  cancer  patients  (N=150)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide and mitoxantrone. OS and EFS at 4 years were 70% and 52%, respectively. There 
was a trend in favor of high-dose chemotherapy with respect to EFS. 
-  In  Yalamanchili  et  al,  2008,  breast  cancer  patients  (N=28)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
mitoxantrone  and  carboplatin.  The  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  determine  the  efficacy  of  high-dose 
chemotherapy  (HDCT)  with  thiotepa,  mitoxantrone  and  carboplatin  (TMJ  regimen).  Between  1991 
and 1998, twenty-eight patients with stage IIIB inflammatory breast cancer underwent an autologous 
stem  cell  transplant  after  undergoing  chemotherapy,  surgery  and/or  radiation.  Progression-free 
survival and overall survival was assessed over a 15-year period. At the time of last follow-up in May 
2007,  sixteen  patients  had  relapsed.  The  median  overall  survival  was  49.5  months.  The  median 
progression free survival was 40 months.  
-  In  Rose  et  al,  2000,  breast  cancer  patients  (N=52)  received  thiotepa  alone.  This  was  considered  a 
valid strategy for patients with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction undergoing therapy with high-
dose  chemotherapy  and  autologous  HPCT  support,  when  cardiotoxic  agents,  such  as 
cyclophopshamide, should be avoided. 
- In Papadopoulos et al, 1998, CNS tumours patients (N=15) received increasing doses of thiotepa in 
combination  with  etoposide  and  carmustine.  Median  survival  was  12  months  with  a  time  to  tumour 
progression of 7 months. 
-  In  Papadopoulos  et  al,  1998,  CNS  tumours  patients  (N=3)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
etoposide  and  carboplatin.  Median  survival  was  12  months  with  a  time  to  tumour  progression  of  7 
months.  
-  In  Cairncross  et  al,  2000  and  Abrey  et  al,  2006,  CNS  tumours  patients  (N=59)  received  thiotepa 
alone.  Median  survival  was  49  months,  significantly  longer  than  12  months  for  comparable  CNS 
patients  who  did  not  proceed  to  high-dose  chemotherapy  (median  survival  time  49  months  vs  12 
months, p=0.002) (Cairncross et al, 2000). In Abrey et al, 2006 relapse was 46% with a median of 
33,5 months and 7 patients of 59 (12%) died of relapse. Median PFS was 78 months.  
-  In  Chen  et  al,  2004,  CNS  tumours  patients  (N=21)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
carboplatin. Mean survival was 34.5 +/- 5.5 months (range 9-94 months). The Kaplan-Meier estimate 
for the PFS was 47% +/- 11 at 24 months.  
- In Gill et al, 2008, CNS tumours patients (N=10) received thiotepa in combination with carmustine. 
At 1 year, 6/10 patients achieved complete response (CR). Median survival time was 3.47 years. 5/10 
patients were alive at 2.9 years. 4/5 alive patients were without disease progression.  Time to disease 
progression was 1.25 years.  
-  In  Holmberg  et  al,  1998,  ovarian  cancer  patients  (N=31)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
busulfan and melphalan. In this study the actuarial survival, EFS and relapse probability at 18 months 
was  57%,  30%  and  63%,  respectively.  Overall,  the  efficacy  in  patients  autografted  with  relapse  or 
persistent disease was similar to results published with other high-dose chemotherapy regimens. 
-  In  Tiersten  et  al,  2006  ovarian  cancer  patients  (N=17)  received  thiotepa  alone.  17  patients  were 
enrolled  for  investigating  a  novel  high-dose  chemotherapy  (HDCT)  regimen  with  peripheral  blood 
progenitor cell (PBPC) support in patients with pretreated advanced ovarian cancer. Patients received 
three consecutive cycles of HDCT with PBPC support. Cycle 1 HDCT included carboplatin with an 
area  under  the  concentration  curve  of  20  mg/m2  and  paclitaxel  at  250  mg/m2,  respectively.  Cycle  2 
included topotecan starting at 5 mg/m2, dose escalated in 2 mg/m2 increments,  and etoposide 600 at 
mg/m2. Cycle 3 included thiotepa at 500 mg/m2. The response rate was 50%, including 5 CRs and 2 
partial responses. Stable disease was noted in four (29%) patients, two of who had minimal responses. 
One patient progressed and went off the study after cycle 1. At a median follow-up of 11.7 months, the 
median progression-free survival was 7 months, and the median overall survival was 18 months. 
-  In  Rick  et  al,  2001  germ  cell  tumour  patients  (N=62)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
etoposide and carboplatin. 41% of patients responded to the high dose chemotherapy, 32% had stable 
disease or tumour progression. Survival estimated at 3 years was 30%.  
Allogeneic HPCT in adult patients 
A total of 1771 patients with haematological diseases received thiotepa i.v., in combination with TBI 
and other chemotherapeutic drugs as conditioning treatment before allogeneic HPCT. 
Page 26 of 78 
 
 
Table 6: Allogeneic HPCT in adult patients 
DISEASE  CHARACTERISTIC 
CONDITIONING 
TREATMENT 
N PTS 
AUTHORS 
Lymphoma 
TT/CY/FLU 
Multiple Myeloma 
TT/FLU/MEL 
Haematological disease 
not otherwise specified 
Haemato-
logical 
diseases 
TT/CY 
TT/CY/FLU 
TT/FLU 
TT/FLU/MEL/OKT
3 
TT/TBI/FLU 
TT/CY 
TT/CY/BU 
TT/FLU/MEL/ATG 
Leukemia 
TT/TBI/CY 
187 
53 
625 
150 
93 
10 
52 
78 
30 
14 
81 
TT/TBI/CY/ATG 
107 
TT/TBI/FLU/ATG 
276 
Thalassemia 
TT/CY/BU 
TOTAL 
15 
1771 
Corradini et al, 2004; Corradini 
et al, 2007 
Majolino et al, 2007 
Bacigalupo et al, 2007a; 
Bacigalupo et al, 2007b; 
Bacigalupo et al, 2009; Raiola 
et al, 2000; di Grazia et al, 2001
Corradini et al, 2005 
Alessandrino et al, 2001; 
Alessandrino et al,  2004; 
Grullich et al, 2008; Picardi et 
al, 2004 
Bethge et al, 2006 
Jakubowski et al, 2007 
Bacigalupo et al, 1996; 
Bacigalupo et al, 2007c 
Rosales et al, 1999 
Lacerda et al, 2003 
Rigden et al, 1996; 
Papadopoulos et al, 1998 
Aversa et al, 1994; Aversa et al, 
1999; Aversa et al, 2001 
Aversa et al, 1998;Aversa et al, 
2001; Aversa et al, 2002; 
Aversa et al, 2005 
La Nasa et al, 2005 
ATG=anti-tymocytes rabbit immunoglobuline; BU=busulfan; CY=cyclophosphamide; FLU=fludarabine; 
MEL=melphalan; OKT3=murine monoclonal antibody; TBI=total body irradiation; TT = thiotepa; 
Adult  patients  with  haematological  diseases  undergoing  allogeneic  HPCT  comprised  patients  with 
lymphomas  (N=187),  multiple  myeloma  (N=53),  haematological  diseases  not  otherwise  specified 
(N=930), leukemia (N=586) and thalassemia (N=15). 
- In Corradini et al, 2004 and Corradini et al, 2007 lymphoma patients (N=187) received thiotepa in 
combination  with  fludarabine  and  cyclophoshamide.  The  majority  of  patients  were  treated  with 
allogeneic transplantation for very high risk lymphomas. The majority of patients had received several 
lines of chemotherapy and at least one autologous transplant. The results in term of efficacy reported 
in  all  studies  confirm  that  the  conditioning  regimens  including  thiotepa,  at  doses  greater  than  10 
mg/kg, are myeloablative in different types of transplant. Engraftment was 100%, estimated OS at 3 
year  was  81%  and  relapse  was  12%  with  estimated  PFS  at  3  year  of  64%  (Corradini  et  al,  2004). 
Engraftment was 100% (84% full chimerism and 16% mixed), OS estimated at 3 years was 62% and 
1–3 year cumulative relapse was 31% and 41%, respectively (Corradini et al, 2007). In conclusion, 
several  types  of  reduced-intensity  conditioning  (RIC)  regimens  provided  a  high  rate  of  engraftment 
with a significant decrease in organ toxicity, making SCT a feasible procedure in patients considered 
not  eligible  for  conventional  transplantation  because  of  age,  comorbid  conditions,  or  extensive 
previous therapies.  
- In  Majolino et al, 2007,  multiple  myeloma patients (N=53) received thiotepa in combination with 
fludarabine  and  melphalan.  Because  Multiple  Myeloma  is  associated  with  high  risk  of  relapse,  the 
conditioning  regimens  used  prior  to  HPCT  generally  favour  graft  versus  tumour  effect  over 
immunosuppression. For this reason, high risk of GvHD and high incidence of TRM is expected. In 
this  study,  a  RIC  regimen  with  thiotepa,  fludarabine  and  melphalan  was  used  with  the  aim  of 
Page 27 of 78 
 
 
 
achieving  myeloablation  with  low  TRM,  mainly  in  old  patients  or  patients  with  comorbidity.  The 
study achieved the primary end point in terms of engraftment, OS and relapse. Estimated relapse at 3 
years was 32% considering that 82% of patients had advanced disease. This result is comparable with 
other results obtained with different myeloablative regimens characterized by high TRM. 
- In Raiola et al, 2000, Di Grazia et al, 2001, Bacigalupo et al, 2007a, Bacigalupo et al, 2007b, and 
Bacigalupo  et  al,  2009,  patients  with  haematological  diseases  not  otherwise  specified  (N=625) 
received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  cyclophosphamide.  Across  these  studies  a  reduced  intensity 
regimen  (thiotepa  =  10  mg/kg)  was  compared  with  a  conventional  regimen  (thiotepa  >  10  mg/kg) 
(Bacigalupo  et  al,  2009)  or  with  an  intensified  regimen  (thiotepa/cyclophosphamide  supplemented 
with Melphalan or TBI) (Bacigalupo et al, 2007a and Di Grazia et al, 2001).  
The  haematological  diseases  encountered  were  AML,  ALL,  CML,  CLD,  MDS,  NHL,  HL  and  MM. 
Engraftment ranged from 97% to 99%. Event free survival was reported in only two studies: 61% in 
Raiola et al, 2000 with 2 years of follow up and 89% in Bacigalupo et al, 2007b with 10 years of 
follow-up.  
Across all studies, the relapse and the deaths to relapse were different in early and in late phases of 
disease. Patients in chronic phase or first complete remission (CR1) were considered as early disease, 
while all others (CR > 1) were late disease. Patients beyond first complete remission had a higher risk 
of  relapse  (mean  of  36%)  than  those  in  CR1  (mean  17.5%).  The  second  variable  that  affected  the 
relapse rate is the stem cell source: for bone marrow graft the relapse was higher than for peripheral 
blood graft (67% vs 33%). With 2 years of follow up (Raiola et al, 2000) overall survival was 72%, 
whereas with 10 years of follow up (Bacigalupo et al, 2007a, Bacigalupo et al, 2007b and Di Grazia 
et al, 2001) overall survival was 48%. Relapse depended on the phase of disease (higher in CR1 (67%) 
than in >CR1 (43%)) and on stem cell source (BM 87% vs PB 67%, at 2 years). For the long follow up 
(10 years) the different survival in BM and PB tends to equalize (BM 58% vs PB 51%). 
-  In  Corradini  et  al,  2005,  patients  with  haematological  diseases  not  otherwise  specified  (N=150) 
received thiotepa in combination with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. Engraftment rate was 99%. 
The 5-year OS and PFS rates for indolent lymphomas were 66% and 73%, respectively. Aggressive 
NHL had estimated 5-year OS and PFS rates of 72% and 59%. Acute Myeloid Leukemia and MDS 
were analysed together; the estimated OS and PFS rates at 5 years were 32% and 38%, respectively. 
Multiple Myeloma had estimated OS and PFS rates of 70% and 30% at 5 years, respectively.  
Patients who undergo transplant are considered old when they are > 55 years. Overall, OS at 5 years 
was 66% in younger patients and 61% in older patients. There were no statistical differences in terms 
of efficacy concerning OS, PFS, NRM and relapse between the two age groups. 
- In Alessandrino et al, 2001, Alessandrino et al, 2004, Picardi et al, 2004 and Grullich et al, 2008, 
patients with haematological diseases not otherwise specified (N=93) received thiotepa in combination 
with fludarabine. 
The reduced intensity regimen based on thiotepa and fludarabine was introduced for the treatment of 
patients  who  are  ineligible  for  myeloablative  conditioning  but  considered  to  be  at  risk  of  relapse. 
Transplant related toxicity and mortality are high with conventional allografts, particularly in patients 
with  advanced  age,  comorbidities,  poor  performance  status  and  a  previous  regimen  and 
autologous/allogeneic 
including  six  patients 
transplantation.  Following  a  preliminary  study 
(Alessandrino  et  al,  2001),  Corradini  et  al,  2004  evaluated  the  combination  of  thiotepa  and 
fludarabine given as a preparative regimen in patients with haematological malignancies with a poor 
performance status. This regimen led to engraftment in all treated patients with rates of acute GvHD 
and chronic GvHD comparable to those reported in other studies. The 1-year relapse rate was 19 %. In 
Grullich  et  al,  2008,  the  conditioning  regimen  including  thiotepa  was  used  to  treat  failures  of  an 
autologous  or  an  allogeneic  transplant.  These  types  of  patients  require  an  appropriate  conditioning 
regimen to ensure an adequate myeloablative activity combined with a good safety profile; the patients 
had  indeed  multiple  comorbidities.  The  thiotepa/fludarabine  regimen  led  to  engraftment  in  all  46 
evaluable  patients.  Donor  chimerism  was  evaluable  in  43  of  49  patients,  38  of  43  (88%)  achieved 
complete donor chimerism at one month and no graft failure occurred. The overall incidence of severe 
acute GVHD was 24% and chronic GVHD developed in 17 of 39 evaluable patients (7 extensive). The 
estimated probability of relapse/progression at 1 year was 55.1%. At 1 year the estimated survival for 
all patients was 42.6% and the estimated event free survival was 38.1%. Similar results were reported 
also in Picardi et al, 2004. The cohort of patients with advanced haematologic disease achieved both 
complete chimerism and absence of rejection of 95%. The 6-year cumulative incidence of relapse was 
Page 28 of 78 
56%  and  the Overall  Survival  and  Disease  Free  Survival  rates  at  74  months  were  31.7  %  and  23%, 
respectively.  
- In Bethge et al, 2006, patients with haematological diseases not otherwise specified (N=10) received 
thiotepa  in  combination  with  fludarabine,  melphalan  and  OKT3.  Haploidentical  haematopoietic  cell 
transplantation  (HHCT)  might  be  especially  suited  for  patients  with  relapsed  or  treatment-refractory 
disease  even  after  preceding  HCT.  Initially,  however,  trials  of  HHCT  were  complicated  by  a  high 
incidence  of  engraftment  failure,  GvHD,  and  infectious  complications  resulting  in  an  unacceptable 
treatment-related  morbidity  and  mortality.  This  study  aimed  to  improve  engraftment  by  using 
CD3/CD19  depletion  of  PBMC  and  reduce  the  high  treatment-related  toxicity  by  a  dose-reduced 
conditioning regimen. Engraftment was rapid and full donor chimerism was achieved after 2 weeks in 
all patients. Overall survival was 50% (5/10 patients) with 4 patients in CR and a median follow-up of 
435  (range,  229–814)  days.  These  are  comparable  with  OS  expected  after  HCT  in  standard  risk 
patients. 
-  In  Jakubowski  et  al,  2007,  patients  with  haematological  diseases  not  otherwise  specified  (N=52) 
received thiotepa in combination with TBI and fludarabine. Engraftment was 100%, OS was 62% and 
relapse was 17% with an estimated DFS at 3 year of 61%. The relapse rates, comparable with those of 
unmodified  grafts,  reaffirmed  the  findings  of  prior  studies  with  respect  to  the  anti-malignancy 
potential  of  the  T-cell  depletion  transplantation  strategy.  Furthermore,  this  study  suggested  the 
curative potential of this treatment approach even in older patients. 
- In Bacigalupo et al, 1996 and Bacigalupo et al, 2007c, leukemia patients (N=78) received thiotepa 
in  combination  with  cyclophosphamide.  In  Bacigalupo  et  al,  1996,  94%  of  patients  achieved 
engraftment.  OS  was  61%  with  a  relapse  incidence  of  16%.  Bacigalupo  et  al,  2007c  reported  rapid 
and  good  engraftment  with  5-year  survival  of  64%.  The  cumulative  risk  of  relapse  was  45%  with  a 
median  follow  up  of  4.6  years.  These  results  suggest  that  the  combination  of  thiotepa  and 
cyclophosphamide was comparable to busulfan i.v., fludarabine and ATG.  
-  In  Rosales  et  al,  1999,  leukemia  patients  (N=30)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide  and  busulfan.  In  order  to  reduce  the  risk  of  relapse  and  maintain  the  therapeutic 
potential of stem cell allografting while avoiding GvHD, the conventional conditioning regimen for T-
cell depleted grafts consisting of BU and CY was intensified by the addition of thiotepa. The effect of 
this intensified regimen was investigated in a total of 30 patients who underwent T-cell depleted BMT 
from  HLA  identical  sibling  donors.  Engraftment  rate  was  100%  with  82%  of  evaluable  patients 
achieving a full-donor chimerism; estimated EFS rate at 60 months was 50%, estimated OS rate at 60 
months  was  50%  and  relapse  rate  was  13%.    The  results  were  within  the  range  observed  in  other 
studies on allogeneic BMT in acute leukemia..  
- In Lacerda et al, 2003, leukemia patients (N=14) received thiotepa in combination with fludarabine, 
melphalan and ATG. All patients achieved engraftment with full-donor chimerism. Estimated event-
free  survival  and  OS  at  4  years  was  42%.  5  patients  relapsed  and  the  estimated  relapse-related 
mortality at 4 years was 38.1%.  
- In Rigden et al, 1996 and Papadopoulos et al, 1998, leukemia patients (N=81) received thiotepa in 
combination  with  TBI  and  cyclophosphamide.  58  patients  underwent  allogeneic  marrow 
transplantation  from  matched  sibling  donors  and  23  from  unrelated  donors.  Rejection  and  non-
engraftment  were  reported  in  1%  of  unmanipulated  sibling  and  3%  of  unrelated  allogeneic  BMT 
(Rigden et al, 1996). Engraftment rate was 95% in Rigden et al, 1996 and 100% in Papadopoulos et 
al, 1998. Event-free survival and overall survival was 38% and 50% in Rigden et al, 1996; 63% and 
64% in Papadopoulos et al, 1998. The relapse rate was 9% and 15%, respectively.  
-  In  Aversa  et  al,  1994,  Aversa  et  al,  1999  and  Aversa  et  al,  2001,  leukemia  patients  (N=107) 
received thiotepa in combination with TBI and cyclophosphamide and ATG. 
Clinical  results  of  T-cell-depleted  HLA-matched  transplants  in  acute  leukemia  have  varied  greatly 
because of differences in T-cell depletion methods and conditioning regimens. Eliminating GvHD by 
ex  vivo  T-cell  depletion  improves  disease-free  survival  only  if  graft  rejection  is  prevented  and  the 
antileukemic  effect  is  maintained.  The  purpose  of  the  above  studies  was  to  test  whether  the 
conditioning  regimen  based  on  thiotepa,  TBI,  cyclophosphamide  and  antithymocyte  globulin 
facilitates engraftment of an extensively T-cell–depleted transplant. In Aversa et al, 1994, 17 patients 
received this regimen while in refractory end-stage disease. Engraftment rate was 94% and the relapse 
was 12% (2 patients). In Aversa et al, 2001, acute leukemia patients received this regimen while in 
remission (18) or relapse (18). Twenty-nine patients  (80%) with advanced end-stage acute leukemia 
achieved primary sustained engraftment. In Aversa et al, 1999, all 52 patients achieved primary and 
Page 29 of 78 
sustained  engraftment  with  full  donor-type  chimerism.  After  the  conditioning  regimen  with  thiotepa 
neither graft rejection nor GvHD occurred. The probability of relapse was 12% for patients with acute 
myeloid leukemia and 28% for patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who received transplants at 
the first or second remission. Furthermore, at a median follow-up of 6.9 years (minimum follow-up, 
4.9 years), event-free survival for patients who received transplants while in remission was 74 % for 
acute myeloid leukemia patients and 59% for acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients. These results are 
comparable with 2-year leukemia-free survival rates of 57% and 45% in first-remission patients with 
acute  leukemia  reported  by  the  International  Bone  Marrow  Transplant  Registry.  Moreover,  a 
significant interaction effect on relapse between AML and thiotepa (P = 0.02) was found in this study 
when  the  study  group  patients  were  compared  with  historical  group  of  30  patients  who  underwent 
BMT before the clinicians included thiotepa.  
-  In  Aversa  et  al,  1998,  Aversa  et  al,  2001,  Aversa  et  al,  2002  and  Aversa  et  al,  2005,  leukemia 
patients (N=276) received thiotepa in combination with TBI and fludarabine and ATG. 
The main limitations of bone marrow transplantation from donors who are matched with the recipient 
for only one HLA haplotype are GvHD and graft failure. A serious problem in the transplantation of 
T-cell–depleted  bone  marrow  is  an  increased  risk  of  relapse  after  transplantation  due  to  lack  of  the 
GvHD related graft-versus-leukemia effect. Only 16% of the present haploidentical recipients relapsed 
when  transplanted  in  remission  after  total-body  irradiation  and  thiotepa-based  conditioning  and  no 
post-transplantation immunosuppression. AML relapse rate was 10% and 13% in Aversa et al, 1998 
and Aversa et al, 2002, respectively. ALL relapse rate was 48% and 88% in Aversa et al, 1998 and 
Aversa et al, 2002, respectively. In the studies considered, relapses occurred mainly in patients with 
ALL, particularly those in relapse at the time of transplantation (48% vs 10% in Aversa 1998, 88% vs 
13% in Aversa 2002). Cumulative relapse rates of 25% and 30% were reported in Aversa et al, 2005 
and  Aversa  et  al,  2001,  respectively.  These  results  suggest  that  T-cell–depleted  mismatched 
transplants  trigger  unique  graft-versus-leukemia  effector  mechanisms.  The  probability  of  event-free 
survival was significantly better in AML patients whose transplant included donor vs recipient NK cell 
alloreactivity than in those whose transplant did not. Overall, EFS compared favourably with what is 
reported in patients at the same stage of disease who receive transplants from matched donors.  
-  In  La  Nasa  et  al,  2005,  thalassemia  patients  (N=15)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide and busulfan. This study is the first report on the combination of busulfan, thiotepa 
and  cyclophosphamide  in  thalassemia  patients.  The  27  patients  with  a  median  age  of  22  years  were 
treated with two different conditioning regimens: 15 patients were treated with busulfan, thiotepa and 
cyclophosphamide, the other 12 were treated with busulfan and cyclophosphamide. Engraftment was 
96%. Thalassemia-free survival and OS was 70%. These results suggest that the conditioning regimen 
has a good efficacy and that Unrelated Donor-BMT in adult class 3 thalassemia patients, with donors 
selected through high-resolution molecular typing, may offer a success rate similar to that historically 
reported in patients with similar prognostic characteristics transplanted from HLA identical siblings. 
THIOTEPA IN PAEDIATRIC POPULATION 
   Autologous HPCT 
   Allogeneic HPCT 
Solid Tumours 
Haematological Diseases 
CNS tumours 
Not otherwhise specified 
Leukemia 
Thalassemia 
Refractory Cytopenia 
Genetic Diseases 
Sickle cell 
anaemia 
Autologous HPCT in paediatric patients 
Page 30 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 476 patients with CNS tumours (N=378) and solid tumours not otherwise specified (N=98) 
received thiotepa i.v., as conditioning treatment before autologous HPCT. 
Table 7: Autologous HPCT in paediatric patients 
DISEASE  CHARACTERISTIC 
CONDITIONING 
TREATMENT 
N PTS 
AUTHORS 
TT/CARB/VP16 
106 
CNS tumours 
TT/CARM/VP16 
TT/VP16 
TT alone 
TT/BU 
TT alone 
Solid tumours not 
otherwise specified 
TT/CY/MEL 
TT/CARB/TOPOTE
TT/BU/MEL 
57 
94 
31 
90 
40 
21 
21 
16 
476 
Solid 
tumours 
TOTAL 
Dunkel et al, 1998; Mason et al 
1998; Broniscer et al, 2004; 
Dhall et al, 2008; Grodman et 
al, 2009 
Finlay et al, 1990; Grovas et al 
1999; Papadakis et al, 2000 
Finlay et al, 1996; Bouffet et al 
1997,; Fagioli et al, 2004 
Massimino et al, 2005; 
Massimino et al, 2006 
Grill et al, 1996; Dupuis-Girod 
et al 1997; Valteau- Couanet et 
al, 2005; Ridola et al, 2007 
Lucidarme et al, 1998; Lafay-
Cousin et al, 2000 
Chan et al, 1997 
Kushner et al, 2001 
Hawkins et al, 2000 
BU=busulfan; CY=cyclophosphamide; CARB=carboplatin; CARM=carmustine; MEL=melphalan; 
TOPOTE=topotecan; TT = thiotepa; VP16=etoposide. 
- In Dunkel et al, 1998, Mason et al, 1998, Broniscer et al, 2004, Dhall et al, 2008 and Grodman et 
al,  2009,  CNS  tumour  patients  (N=106)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  etoposide  and 
carboplatin. Engraftment was achieved in all studies.  
In  Dunkel  et  al,  1998,  tumours  recurred  in  13  patients  (57%)  at  a  median  of  7  months  post  HPCT 
(range  3  to  36  months).  Median  survival  after  recurrence  was  6  months  (range  1-31  months).  The 
Kaplan-Meier estimates of OS were 46% ± 11% at 36 months post transplant. These results suggest 
that  an  aggressive  regimen  including  the  use  of  high-dose  chemotherapy  in  conjunction  with  HPCT 
may  provide  long-term  survival  for  some  patients  with  recurrent  medulloblastoma.  High-dose 
chemotherapy with HPCT is expected to be more effective against a smaller residual tumour burden 
which suggests that aggressive therapy with neurosurgical resection, irradiation, and/or conventional 
chemotherapy  after  detection  of  relapse  and  before  high-dose  chemotherapy  with  HPCT  and  early 
detection of relapse, perhaps via surveillance scanning, may be an important component in the salvage 
of patients with recurrent medulloblastoma.  
In  Mason  et  al,  1998,  for  the  entire  cohort,  the  1-,  2-  and  3-year  OS  rate  was  63%,  48%  and  40%, 
respectively.  1-,  2-  and  3-year  OS  estimates  following  HPCT  for  37  children  who  received 
consolidation  chemotherapy  were  84%,  73%  and  62%.  A  significant  proportion  of  children  with 
malignant brain tumours can avoid radiotherapy and prolong maintenance chemotherapy. 
In Bronisher et al, 2004, 10 patients (59%) experienced tumour relapse at a median of 160 days and 
all succumbed to their disease. Five patients with conical primitive neuroectodermal tumours (PNETs) 
remained  alive  and  disease-free  with  a  median  follow-up  of  8.3  years.  A  subset  of  patients  with 
recurrent non-cerebellar PNETs can be salvaged utilizing a multi-modality approach including high-
dose regimen based on two (thioteta-etoposide) or three (thiotepa-etoposide-carboplatin) drugs. These 
patients  should  be  considered  for  myeloablative  chemotherapy  as  consolidation  only  when  there  is 
either minimal or no residual disease prior to HPCT. 
In  Dhall  et  al,  2008,  7  relapses  have  been  reported.  4  patients  relapsed  locally,  2  patients  had  both 
local  and  metastatic  relapse  and  1  patient  had  metastatic  disease  only  at  relapse.  All  relapses  were 
observed  within  12-26  months  from  initial  diagnosis.  5-year  overall  survival  was  79%  ±  11%.  The 
Page 31 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
majority of survivors (71%) avoided irradiation completely. This strategy of brief intensive induction 
chemotherapy  based  on  high-dose  thiotepa,  etoposide  and  carboplatin  for  young  children  with  non-
metastatic medulloblastoma could eliminate the need for craniospinal irradiation and preserve quality 
of life and intellectual functioning.  
In Grodman et al, 2009, four out of eight patients remained in complete remission at 62–164 months 
following treatment. Three died of progressive disease after 10–32 months. The 2- and 5-year survival 
rate  was  75%  and  50%,  respectively.  None  of  the  survivors  required  additional  salvage  irradiation.  
Although  most  of  the  patients  in  this  study  were  high-risk  patients  who  had  relapsed  after  standard 
chemotherapy  and  maximum  irradiation  therapy,  the  strategy  with  ablative  carboplatin  and  thiotepa 
with stem cell rescue showed promising survival.  
- In Finlay et al, 1990, Grovas et al, 1999 and Papadakis et al, 2000, CNS tumour patients (N=57) 
received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  etoposide  and  carmustine.  Engraftment  was  achieved  in  all 
studies.  
In Finlay et al, 1990, the responses were as follows: 2 CR, 1 PR, 1 SD and 1 non-evaluable patient. 
The two patients in CR remained without evidence of tumour progression more than 15 months from 
marrow reinfusion. The patient in PR and the non-evaluable patient had relapsed.  
In Grovas et al, 1999, 3/11 patients (27%) were alive and remained disease free 2.9, 3.9 and 5.1 years 
after HPCT. 6/11 patients (55%) died of relapse. For these 11 patients, the overall survival rates at 1- 
and 2- years were 73% ± 13% and 46% ± 14%, respectively. The progression-free survival rates at 1- 
and 2-year were 64% ± 14% and 46% ± 14%, respectively.  
In Papadakis et al, 2000, thirty-three patients were evaluable for response to treatment. Six patients 
demonstrated CR following ABMR and eight patients remained in CCR for a median of 54.9 months 
(range,  3.5–86.3)  and  20.2  months  (range,  4.6–110.2),  respectively.  Fifteen  patients  remained  alive 
with stable disease for a median of 5.7 months (range, 1.0–64.4). 
Overall survival (OS) was 36% at 1 year, 24%  at 2 years and 17% at 3 years, with median OS of 9.5 
months. Patients treated for recurrent disease fared worse than patients with newly diagnosed disease, 
with median survivals of 5.0 and 10.7 months, respectively. 
-  In  Finlay  et  al,  1996,  Bouffet  et  al,  1997  and  Fagioli  et  al,  2004,  CNS  tumour  patients  (N=94) 
received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  etoposide.  Engraftment  was  achieved  in  all  studies.  Only  in 
Finlay et al, 1996 did five patients die before engraftment within 30 days from HPCT.  
In Bouffet et al, 1997, the overall response rate was 29%. 17 patients died of progression or recurrent 
disease. The median survival and PFS were 9 months (range: 1-65 months) and 5 months (range: 0-65 
months), respectively. 3 patients were alive and progression free 54, 60 and 65 months after BMT. 
In Fagioli et al, 2004, twelve patients had newly diagnosed  high-risk brain tumours  and 15 patients 
had recurrent brain tumours. 11 patients achieved CR after HPCT including 9 patients in continuing 
complete  remission;  1  patient  achieved  PR  and  there  was  only  1  case  of  disease  progression.  15/27 
patients  died  of  disease  while  11  patients  were  alive  including  7  with  no  evidence  of  disease  (time 
from 7.3 months to 127.1 months). All 11 patients attended school after HDC. OS rate at 3 years was 
44.6%  after  a  median  follow  up  of  13.9  months  (range:  1–127  months).  The  3-year-OS  rates  were 
77.1%  and  27.5%  for  patients  who  underwent  HPCT  while  experiencing  CR  and  patients  with 
measurable disease at the time of HPCT, respectively (P=0.03). There was no statistically significant 
difference in OS and EFS rates between patients who underwent HPCT at diagnosis and patients who 
underwent HPCT at the time of recurrence. The median time to disease recurrence/progression was 6.2 
months (range, 1.9 –32.0 months). 
In  Finlay  et  al,  1996,  survival  rates  of  40%  at  6  months,  33%  at  1  year  and  16%  at  2  years  were 
reported. 5 out of 18 patients (28%) with high-grade gliomas survived more than 39, 44, 49, 52 and 59 
months post ABMR.  All survivors are within the group of high-grade gliomas.  
These  preliminary  results  in  patients  with  high  grade  astrocytoma  are  notable  for  the  rapidity  of 
tumour regression (as evaluated by MRI or CT scan on day 28 post-BMR) and the high frequency of 
responses in glioblastoma multiforme.  
- In Massimino et al, 2005 and Massimino et al, 2006, patients with CNS tumours (N= 31) received 
thiotepa alone. Engraftment was positive in all studies.  
In Massimino et al, 2005, with a median follow-up of 57 months, overall survival was 43% and PFS 
at four years was 46% with a relapse of 57%; death upon relapse was 92%. The authors concluded that 
thiotepa  does  not  have  a  “consolidation”  role  in  high  grade  glioma,  but  it  can  be  a  further  tool  for 
obtaining remission and possibly cure of this ominous disease. 
Page 32 of 78 
In Massimino et al, 2006, OS was 87.5% ± 12% at 3 years and PFS was 70% ± 18% with a relapse of 
40%.  83%  of  the  patients  that  relapsed  died  at  a  median  of  13  months.  The  authors  concluded  that 
myeloablative phase with thiotepa improved the prognosis in supratentorial primitive neuroendocrine 
tumours (S-PNET).   
- In Grill et al, 1996, Dupuis-Girod et al, 1997, Valteau-Couanet et al, 2005 and Ridola et al, 2007, 
CNS  tumour  patients  (N=  90)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  busulfan.  Engraftment  was 
achieved in all studies.  
In Dupuis-Girod et al, 1997, patients with relapsed medulloblastoma had a median follow up of 39.5 
months post HPCT (range 21-92 months) with a 75% response rate. The relapse rate was 35% (7/20 
patients). 
In Grill et al, 1996, the TT/BU combination was evaluated in refractory or relapsed ependymoma. Of 
15  evaluable  patients,  9  achieved  a  significant  response  1-2  months  after  HPCT.  Eleven  patients 
experienced relapse. There were 3 patients free of disease at 15, 25 and 27 months after HPCT. The 
latest relapse occurred 5 years after transplantation. 
In  Valteau-Couanet  et  al,  2005,  15  children  with  relapsing  medulloblastoma  after  conventional 
therapy  were  treated  with TT/BU.  Tumour  response was  evaluable  in  7/10 patients  and  consisted  in 
two  CR,  three  PR  and  two  NR.  Two  patients  were  alive  with  no  evidence  of  disease  158  and  135 
months post HPCT, respectively, and eight patients had died of disease progression. 
In Ridola et al, 2007, the 5-year estimated OS and EFS were 68.8% (95% CI, 53–81.2%) and 61.5% 
(95% CI, 45.9–75.1%), respectively. Treatment failures occurred in 13 patients within the first 2 years 
of salvage therapy and the median delay of disease recurrence was 10 months (range, 7–24 months). 
Among the 37 evaluable patients, disease recurrences were observed in 1 out of 18 patients who were 
in CR and in 12 out of 19 patients who were not in CR.  
The cognitive outcome associated with the current strategy, with a median FSIQ of 71.8 at 5.8 years of 
follow-up, is an improvement on previously reported results after CSI-based salvage therapy (median 
FSIQ, 62 at 4.8 years of follow-up in children aged <4 years at diagnosis).  
Collectively,  these  studies  show  that  high  dose  chemotherapy  with  TT/BU  followed  by  HPCT  is 
efficacious  in  relapsed  medulloblastoma,  inducing  responses  even  in  heavily  pretreated  relapsing 
medulloblastoma patients.  
- In Lucidarme et al, 1998 and Lafay-Cousin et al, 2000, patients with solid tumours not otherwise 
specified (N=40) received thiotepa alone. Engraftment was achieved in both studies.  
In Lucidarme et al, 1998, 22 children with refractory solid tumours entered a phase II study of high-
dose  thiotepa  (900  mg/m2)  followed  by  stem  cell  transplantation  (SCT).  Tumour  types  were 
rhabdomyosarcoma  (8),  osteosarcoma  (7),  neuroblastoma  (3),  Ewing’s  sarcoma  (3)  and  Burkitt’s 
lymphoma  (1).  Partial  remission  was  observed  in  50%  (11/22)  of  the  patients.  Four  out  of  22  had 
stable disease (SD) and 7/22 progressive disease (PD). Of the seven patients with osteosarcoma, four 
achieved PR; there were two cases of SD and one of PD. Three were alive with no evidence of disease 
(NED) more than 25, 48 and 51 months post transplantation, respectively. Four PRs were obtained in 
patients with rhabdomyosarcoma, disease was stable in two patients and progression was seen in the 
two  remaining  ones.  One  was  alive  with  NED  33  months  post  BMT.  Of  the  three  children  with 
Ewing’s sarcomas, two achieved PR and one had PD. One was alive with NED 28 months after the 
first transplant. One PR and two cases of PD were observed in the three patients with neuroblastoma. 
Five patients were alive with NED with a follow-up of 35, 38, 43, 58 and 61 months. 
In Lafay-Cousin et al, 2000, all patients were evaluable for tumour response. Of the 18 patients, one 
achieved  CR,  five  achieved  PR,  and  all  the  others  were  considered  as  NR.  Six  out  of  18  patients 
responded following high dose thiotepa, attaining a response rate of 33% (95%CI: 11% to 55%).  
Among  the  12  non-responders,  10  died  of  progressive  disease  despite  various  post-transplantation 
treatments over a median of 4 months (range 2–31). The overall median time to relapse was 4 months 
(range  1–21)  with  a  median  follow-up  of  8  months  (range  2–63).  This  is  the  first  large  series 
evaluating  the  anti-tumour  activity  of  hig-dose  thiotepa  in  malignant  mesenchymal  tumours.  All 
children who achieved a significant response had metastatic disease and half of the responders were 
experiencing a second or further relapse, i.e. these patients had particularly poor prognosis. 
- In Chan et al, 1997, patients with solid tumours not otherwise specified (N= 21) received thiotepa 
(TT) in combination with cyclophosphamide and melphalan. All patients achieved the engraftment. 9 
patients were evaluated for tumour response. 5 showed a decrease in residual tumour while the other 
four showed no change. Upon follow up, 12 patients developed progressive disease at a median of 7 
Page 33 of 78 
months from HSC reinfusion. 6 patients were alive in continuous remission 5-50 months (median 36) 
after transplantation.  
- In Kushner et al, 2001, patients with solid tumours not otherwise specified (N=21) received thiotepa 
in  combination  with  carboplatin  and  topotecan.  Engraftment  occurred  at  the  expected  time.  Only  2 
patients  received  second  infusion  of  bone  marrow  on  day  21  because  of  slow  engraftment.  Relapse 
was seen in 5/21 patients with a follow up of 6-32 months after transplantation. In the neuroblastoma 
group,  10/11  patients  relapsed  (follow-up:  6-16  months  after  transplantation)  while  in  the  non- 
neuroblastoma  group,  6/10  patients  relapsed  (follow-up:  9-32  months  after  transplantation).  All  21 
patients were alive with a median observation time of 11.8 months (range: 6 to 32 months).  
The arguments for treatment intensification in such patients using thiotepa, carboplatin, and topotecan 
included the steep dose–response anti-tumour effect of alkylators, the evidence that alkylators are non-
crossresistant,  the  enhancing  effect  of  topotecan  on  alkylator  cytotoxicity  and  the  activity  of  each 
agent  against  a  broad  range  of  cancers  including  brain  tumours.  All  three  agents  are  active  against 
neuroblastoma and their combined use aimed at overcoming two vexing problems of this embryonal 
neoplasm, i.e. minimal residual disease and CNS relapse.  
- In Hawkins et al, 2000, Ewing’s sarcoma family tumour (ESFT) patients (N=16) received thiotepa 
in combination with busulfan and melphalan. Patients with an adequate PBSC collection to support a 
second myeloablative course and who had not received prior dose-limiting radiotherapy were eligible 
to  receive  total  marrow  irradiation  (TMI)  following  recovery  from  TT/BU/MEL.  The  median  TMI 
dose was 12 Gy, with a range of 10.5–15 Gy. PBSC were infused 24 hr after the final dose of TMI. 
Six  out  of  nine  patients  that  received  TT/BU/MEL+TMI  remain  in  CR  at  a  median  of  42  months 
(range  27-66)  and  three  developed  recurrent  disease  at  6.3–17  months  and  succumbed.  None  of  the 
seven patients that only received TT/BU/MEL survived. Overall, the progression-free survival with a 
median  follow-up  of  42  months  is  similar  to  the  2-year  EFS  of  21-45%  following  other  HPCT 
regimens for poor-risk ESFT. 
Allogeneic HPCT in paediatric patients 
A total of 426 patients with haematological diseases received thiotepa i.v, in combination with other 
chemotherapeutic drugs and TBI as conditioning treatment before allogeneic HPCT. 
Table 8: Allogeneic HPCT in paediatric population 
DISEASE  CHARACTERISTIC CONDITIONING TREATMENT N PTS 
AUTHORS 
TT/TBI/CY 
TT/CY/ALG/TBI 
TT/FLU/ATG/TBI 
TT/MEL/TBI 
TT/FLU/TBI 
TT/MEL/ALG/TBI 
TT/FLU/TREO 
TT/CY/ATG/TBI 
TT/BU/CY 
TT/TREO/FLU 
TT/BU/FLU 
TT/BU/FLU/ALG 
Leukemia 
Thalassemia 
Haematological 
diseases 
Refractory Cytopenia  TT/FLU/ATG 
Genetic Diseases 
Sickle cell anaemia  TT/FLU/BU 
TT/BU/CY 
TOTAL 
97 
Zecca et al, 1999;  
Locatelli et al, 2009  
Locatelli et al, 2009
41 
21 
18 
19 
15 
10 
8 
La Nasa et al, 2002 
28 
30  Bernardo et al, 2008
65 
16 
Strahm et al, 2007 
19 
26  Rosales et al, 1999 
Locatelli et al, 2009
14 
426 
Locatelli et al, 2009
ATG= antithymocyte globuline; ALG= antilymphocyte globuline; BU=busulfan; CY=cyclophosphamide; FLU= 
fludarabine; MEL=melphalan; TBI= total body irradiation; TREO=treosulfan; TT= thiotepa  
Page 34 of 78 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
The paediatric population with haematological diseases receiving allogeneic HPCT comprised patients 
with  leukemia  (N=228),  thalassemia  (N=139),  refractory  cytopenia  (N=19),  genetic  diseases  (N=26) 
and sickle cell anaemia (N=14). 
-  In  Zecca  et  al,  1999  and  Locatelli  et  al,  2009,  lymphoblastic  leukemia  patients  (N=97)  received 
thiotepa in combination with TBI and cyclophosphamide. 
The success of allogeneic HPCT in eradicating leukaemia depends on the following factors: the ability 
of the chemoradiotherapy administered as myeloablative treatment to reduce or, at best, to eliminate 
clonogenic malignant cells, and the graft-versus-leukemia effect. 
The study by  Zecca et al, 1999 (N=40) is the first prospective study to evaluate the tolerability and 
efficacy  of  a  new  conditioning  regimen  based  on  the  combination  of  TBI,  thiotepa  and  CY  in  a 
homogeneous groups of children with ALL. The engraftment rate was 98%, OS at 36 months was 65% 
and  the  relapse  related  death  at  36  months  was  15%.  56%  DFS  documented  in  the  27  patients  who 
underwent transplantation in second CR is noteworthy for two main reasons. First, only three out of 27 
patients underwent the transplantation procedure after a previous isolated CNS relapse, and the DFS 
was not modified by their exclusion from the analysis. Second, the escalation of intensity of the last 
generation  first-line  chemotherapy  protocols  that  were  administered  to  the  great  majority  of  the 
patients (23 of 27 in second CR and 11 of 13 in first CR) may have led to an unfavorable selection of 
relapsed patients, who were more likely to harbor refractory disease and more prone to develop severe 
toxicity after an aggressive pre-transplantation conditioning regimen.  
Locatelli et al, 2009 reported the results of 57 ALL patients treated with TT/TBI/CY. With an average 
follow  up  of  121  months,  37  (65%)  patients  are  alive.  The  relapse  rate  was  25%  and  the  DFS  was 
60%.  The  addition  of  thiotepa  to  the  TBI-CY  schedule  minimized  the  risk  of  a  previously  acquired 
drug  resistance  of  the  leukemic  blasts.  Moreover,  owing  to  its  effect  on  enhancing  engraftment  of 
donor stem cells, thiotepa could be of particular value in critical situations characterized by a high risk 
of graft failure, such as cord-blood, unrelated donor or mismatched donor transplantation. 
-  In  Locatelli  et  al,  2009,  leukemia  patients  (N=40)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  TBI, 
cyclophosphamide and ALG. OS was 55%. Relapse and DFS reported was 35% and 45% respectively.  
-  In  Locatelli  et  al,  2009,  leukemia  patients  (N=21)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  TBI, 
fludarabine  and  ATG.  The  engraftment  was  achieved  in  the  expected  time.  16/21  (76%)  of  patients 
were alive with a follow up of 21.2 months. 6 patients (28.5%) had relapse. The DFS was 67%.  
-  In  Locatelli  et  al,  2009,  leukemia  patients  (N=18)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  TBI  and 
melphalan. 11/18 patients were alive with a follow up of 42.3 months. Relapse and DFS reported was 
44% and 50%, respectively.  
-  In  Locatelli  et  al,  2009,  leukemia  patients  (N=19)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  TBI  and 
fludarabine.  OS  was  68%  with  a  follow  up  of  42  months.  7  patients  had  relapse  (37%),  3  of  whom 
died of disease progression. DFS was 47%.  
-  In  Locatelli  et  al,  2009,  leukemia  patients  (N=15)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  TBI, 
melphalan and ALG. All patients experienced engraftment in the expected recovery time. OS was 60% 
(9/15). Relapse was 40% and it was cause of death in 4/6 patients. DFS was 53%. 
- In Locatelli et al, 2009, leukemia patients (N=10) received thiotepa in combination with fludarabine 
and  treosulfan.  OS  was  50%.  3  patients  relapsed.  Progression  of  disease  was  cause  of  death  in  2 
patients. DFS was 40%. 
-  In  Locatelli  et  al,  2009,  leukemia  patients  (N=8)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  TBI, 
cyclophosphamide  and  ATG.  75%  of  patients  were  alive  and  disease-free  with  a  follow  up  of  41 
months. 2 patients relapsed and died of disease progression. 
- In La Nasa et al, 2002, thalassemia patients (N=28) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan 
and  cyclophosphamide.  This  is  the  first  large  series  of  consecutive  thalassemia  patients  with 
transplants from unrelated donors reported. 
In  this  cohort,  rejection  and  mortality  rates  were  12.5%  and  19%,  respectively.  69%  of  the  patients 
were alive with sustained engraftment of donor hematopoiesis, this leading to a projected thalassemia-
free survival of 66%. Only one death was observed among 15 class I and class II patients (7%), the 
other 5 occurring among 17 class III patients (29%). 2 of the 4 cases of rejection occurred in the first 4 
patients conditioned with the standard BU-CY regimen. However, since in adult thalassemia patients 
increasing the dosage of BU carried the risk of increased mortality and toxicity, in the second series of 
patients  thiotepa  was  added.  Thiotepa  at  a  dose  of  10  mg/kg  was  shown  to  intensify  both  the 
myeloablative  and  immunosuppressive  effect  of  the  conditioning  regimen,  without  a  significant 
Page 35 of 78 
increase of extramedullary toxicity. Thiotepa added to BU/CY decreased rejection to 7% (2/28). The 
OS rate was 93% in class I-II pts and 69% in the cumulative population.  
- In Bernardo et al, 2008 and Locatelli et al, 2009, thalassemia patients (N=30) received thiotepa in 
combination with treosulfan and fludarabine. 
In Bernardo et al, 2008, all patients (N=20) engrafted. Two patients (both transplanted from unrelated 
donors)  experienced  secondary  graft  failure.  The  overall  cumulative  incidence  of  graft  failure  was 
11%. 17 patients were transfusion independent. 2 year estimated transfusion-free survival (TFS) was 
85% and OS at 2 years was 95%.  
In  Locatelli  2009,  the  results  are  comparable  with  the  previous  report.  All  patients  engrafted  in  the 
expected time. With a follow up of 25.6 months, 9 (90%) patients were alive and disease-free.  
- In Locatelli 2009, thalassemia patients (N=65) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan and 
fludarabine.  The  engraftment  occurred  at  the  expected  time.  With  a  follow  up  of  131  months  97% 
(63/65) patients were alive. There was only 1 relapse at day +633 from transplantation. DFS was 95% 
(62/65).  Thalassemia  represents  a  particular  disease  because  the  risk  of  graft  failure  is  higher  than 
other  haematological  diseases.  As  reported  in  La  Nasa  et  al,  2002,  TT  added  to  BU-CY  decreased 
rejection to 7% (2 on 28 pts).  
- In Locatelli et al, 2009, thalassemia patients (N=16) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan, 
fludarabine and ALG. 81% of patients were alive. DFS was 81% and no patient died from progression 
of disease. 
- In Strahm et al, 2007, refractory cytopenia patients (N=19) received thiotepa in combination with 
fludarabine and ATG. Sustained neutrophil engraftment was achieved in all but three patients. Patients 
that  achieved  the  engraftment  had  full  chimerism.  Sixteen  out  of  the  19  patients  are  alive  with  a 
median follow-up of 13 months. The estimated OS and EFS at 3 years was 0.84 (0.68–0.99) and 0.74 
(0.54–0.94), respectively.  
-  In  Rosales  et  al,  1999,  genetic  diseases  patients  (N=26)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
busulfan  and  cyclophosphamide.  The  aim  of  this  study  was  to  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  the 
addition of 10 mg/kg thiotepa to the standard BU-CY conditioning regimen for T cell depleted BMT 
in genetic diseases. The engraftment was achieved in 96% of the patients.  There was only 1 case of 
relapse. The overall survival and DFS survival rates were both 71% at 60 months.  
- In Locatelli et al, 2009, sickle cell anaemia patients (N=14) received thiotepa in combination with 
busulfan and fludarabine. With a follow up of 51 months all 14 patients were alive without signs of 
disease (DFS = 100%). No case of relapse was reported.  
  Dose response study(ies) 
No studies were submitted. 
  Main study(ies)  
No studies were submitted. 
  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No pooled analyses and no meta-analysis were submitted. 
  Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies were submitted. 
  Supportive studyies 
No studies were submitted. 
  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In autologous HPCT, efficacy depends almost exclusively on the conditioning treatment which must 
provide  cytoreduction  and  ideally  disease  eradication.  Thiotepa  has  marrow  ablation  as  its  dose-
Page 36 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
limiting toxicity thus allowing significant dose escalation. In allogeneic HPCT, efficacy depends both 
on the conditioning treatment and on the allogeneic cells from the donor, more specifically the donor 
immune  system.  The  conditioning 
immunosuppressive  and 
myeloablative to overcome rejection of the graft by the host. On the other hand, the allogeneic cells of 
the graft determine the percentage of GvHD (Graft vs Host Disease) and GvL (Graft vs Leukaemia) 
effects.  GvHD  is  a  major  complication  of  allogeneic  transplants,  whereas  the  GvL  effect  plays  a 
crucial role in the control of disease. 
treatment  must  be  sufficiently 
Autologous HPCT in adult patients 
Efficacy in haematological diseases following Autologous HPCT 
The efficacy of thiotepa in combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs as conditioning treatment 
prior  to  autologous  HPCT  was  evaluated  in  826  adult  patients  with  haematological  diseases.  These 
comprised 569 patients with lymphomas and 257 patients with multiple myeloma. 
In  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  drugs  the  dose  of  thiotepa  in  haematological  diseases 
ranged  from  125  mg/m2/day  (3.38  mg/kg/day)  to  300  mg/m2/day  (8.10  mg/kg/day)  as  a  single  daily 
infusion,  administered  from  2  up  to  4  consecutive  days  before  autologous  HPCT,  depending  on  the 
combination with other chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products, without exceeding the total maximum 
cumulative dose of 900 mg/m2 (24.32 mg/kg) during the time of the entire conditioning treatment. 
Engraftment was achieved at 96% in low risk patients (Papadopoulos 2005) and from 92 % to 99% in 
patients  at  high  risk  for  their  advanced,  recurrent  and  relapsed  disease  at  the  time  of  tranplantation. 
This is a potential benefit for all high risk patients and in particular for those patients with an history 
of prior dose-limiting radiation and for whom a chemotherapy alone based conditioning regimen was 
the only option (Gutierrez-Delgado et al, 2001, Gutierrez-Delgado et al, 2003). 
Disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS) and relapse are the most relevant efficacy endpoints 
for conditioning regimens prior to conventional HPCT. 
In IBMTR and EBMT Registry data (Bierman et al, 2003) DFS estimated at 5 years was < 50% and 
overall survival was 45%. In some conditioning regimens including thiotepa, DFS at 5 years was 43% 
(Waheed et al, 2004) and DFS at 44 months was 66% (Cumpston et al, 2007).  
Across all submitted studies, OS ranged from 29% to 87% with a follow up that ranged from 22 up to 
63 months. At 5 years follow up, OS ranged from 42 to 52% in lymphoma patients (Gutierrez-Delgado 
et al, 2001 and 2003) and 29% in multiple myeloma patients (Shimoni et al, 2001). In the study by 
Illerhaus et al (2006), patients with CNS lymphoma had 87% survival at 5 years.  
Relapse at 5 years ranged from 34 to 42% in lymphoma patients (Gutierrez-Delgado et al, 2001 and 
2003).  Relapse  related  death  at  5  years  in  CNS  lymphoma  (Illerhaus  et  al,  2006)  was  8.7%.  In 
addition,  event  free  survival  (EFS)  at  5  years  ranged  from  34  to  42%  in  lymphomas  (Gutierrez-
Delgado et al, 2001 and 2003).  
The recommended dose in adults with haematological diseases undergoing autologous HPCT ranges 
from 125 mg/m2/day (3.38 mg/kg/day) to 300 mg/m2/day (8.10 mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, 
administered from 2 up to 4 consecutive days before autologous HPCT depending on the combination 
with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products,  without  exceeding  the  total  maximum  cumulative 
dose of 900 mg/m2 (24.32 mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
LYMPHOMA 
The  recommended  dose  ranges  from  125  mg/m2/day  (3.38  mg/kg/day)  to  300  mg/m2/day  (8.10 
mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, administered from 2 up to 4 consecutive days before autologous 
HPCT  depending  on  the  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products,  without 
exceeding  the  total  maximum  cumulative  dose  of  900  mg/m2  (24.32  mg/kg),  during  the  time  of  the 
entire conditioning treatment.  
CNS LYMPHOMA 
The recommended dose is 185 mg/m2/day (5 mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, administered for 2 
consecutive days before autologous HPCT, without exceeding the total maximum cumulative dose of 
370 mg/m2 (10 mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
MULTIPLE MYELOMA 
The  recommended  dose  ranges  from  150  mg/m2/day  (4.05  mg/kg/day)  to  250  mg/m2/day  (6.76 
mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, administered for 3 consecutive days before autologous HPCT 
depending on the combination with other chemotherapeutic medicinal products, without exceeding the 
Page 37 of 78 
 
 
total  maximum  cumulative  dose  of  750  mg/m2  (20.27  mg/kg),  during  the  time  of  the  entire 
conditioning treatment.  
Efficacy in solid tumours following Autologous HPCT 
The  efficacy  of  thiotepa  as  conditioning  treatment  prior  to  autologous  HPCT  has  been  evaluated  in 
3675 adult patients with solid tumours. These comprised patients with breast cancer (N=3457), CNS 
tumours (N=108), ovarian cancer (N=48) and germ cell tumours (N=62). 
In combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs, the dose of thiotepa in solid tumours ranges from 
120 mg/m2/day (3.24 mg/kg/day) to 250 mg/m2/day (6.76 mg/kg/day), divided in once or twice daily 
infusions  administered  from  2  up  to  5  consecutive  days  before  autologous  HPCT,  depending  on  the 
combination with other chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products, without exceeding the total maximum 
cumulative dose of 800 mg/m2 (21.62 mg/kg) during the time of the entire conditioning treatment. 
The number of haematopoietic stem cell transplantation for treating solid tumours seems constant in 
recent  years  as  reported  from  EBMT  (European  Group  for  Blood  and  Marrow  Transplantation, 
Gratwohl et al, 2009, 2008, 2007). 
In  the  EBMT  Group  and  in  IBMTR  (International  Bone  Marrow  Transplantation)  there  are  many 
Commissions aiming to evaluate the different transplantation strategies for treating different diseases. 
Ljungman et al (2009) published a special EBMT report regarding the current practice of allogeneic 
and autologous transplantation to treat all haematological and non haematological diseases.  
The  existence  of  a  dose-response  effect  in  epithelial  tumours  (breast,  ovarian)  is  still  a  matter  of 
investigation.  However,  the  benefit  of  high-dose  chemotherapy  (HDCT)  in  selected  subgroups  of 
patients  has  become  clearer.  The  role  of  autologous  HPCT  for  primary  breast  cancer  at  high  risk  of 
recurrence (at least four involved axillary lymph nodes) was assessed in a meta-analysis of individual 
patient  data  from  15  known  randomized  trials  comparing  HDCT  with  standard-dose  chemotherapy 
(Ueno et al, 2009). It was shown that HDCT prolonged disease-free survival when used as adjuvant 
therapy and showed a benefit on breast cancer-specific survival and OS. In the context of metastatic 
breast cancer, HDCT seems to be effective in stage IV patients rendered free of macroscopic disease 
by  previous  therapy  and  in  patients  with  oligometastatic  disease.  High-dose  chemotherapy  for  germ 
cell tumours is considered a clinical option for sensitive relapse and as standard therapy for refractory 
disease. 
Regarding ovarian cancer, the results obtained with high dose chemotherapy followed by autologous 
HPCT did not achieve statistically significant difference in progression- free survival or OS compared 
with standard-dose chemotherapy (Ljungman et al, 2009). 
Weaver  et  al  (1997) published  an  analysis  of  1000 consecutive  patients  who  underwent  ASCT  with 
different  conditioning  regimens  with  a  follow  up  over  a  5-year  period.  1000  patients  were  enrolled 
between 1989 and 1994. The aim of the study was to evaluate the treatment relate mortality (TRM) of 
different conditioning regimens. On a total of 1000 patients, 713 with breast cancer were treated with 
thiotepa (167 mg/m2 for three days), carboplatin and cyclophosphamide. The remaining patients were 
treated with other regimens, such as BEAC, BU/CY, TT/BU/MEL and ICE. Lower TRM at 100 days 
was  observed  in  the  TT/CARB/CY  group,  1.8%,  vs  7.2%  in  patients  receiving  other  preparative 
regimens (P = 0.0001). 
The first publications documenting experience with thiotepa, carboplatin and cyclophosphamide date 
to 1992 (Rodenhuis et al, 1992) and 1995 (van der Wall et al, 1995). 
Fifteen articles were submitted comprising a total of 3457 patients with breast cancer. Seven articles 
out  of  fifteen  are  comparative  as  reported  by  the  authors,  for  a  total  of  1944  patients  treated  with 
thiotepa  in  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  drugs  as  conditioning  regimens  before  ASCT. 
Three  articles  out  of  seven,  for  a  total  of  1085  patients  treated  with  thiotepa  regimens,  show  a 
significant  difference  in  efficacy  in  terms  of  relapse  or  OS  or  EFS  of  high-dose  chemotherapy 
including thiotepa when compared with conventional chemotherapy (Nitz et al, 2005, Rodenhuis et al, 
2003  and  Rodenhuis  et  al,  2006).  Tallman  et  al  (2003)  and  Zander  et  al  (2004),  for  a  total  of  420 
patients  treated  with  thiotepa  regimens,  reported  a  better  trend  in  term  of  relapse  and  EFS, 
respectively, but without statistical significance. 
High dose chemotherapy followed by ASCT can be considered a clinical option only if used in a very 
specific  subgroups  of  patients  with  solid  tumours  (e.g.,  sensitive  relapse  and  refractory  germ  cell 
tumours, CNS tumours, etc).  
The recommended dose in adults with solid tumours undergoing autologous HPCT ranges from 120 
mg/m2/day  (3.24  mg/kg/day)  to  250  mg/m2/day  (6.76  mg/kg/day)  divided  in  one  or  two  daily 
Page 38 of 78 
 
infusions,  administered  from  2  up  to  5  consecutive  days  before  autologous  HPCT  depending  on  the 
combination with other chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products, without exceeding the total maximum 
cumulative dose of 800 mg/m2 (21.62 mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
BREAST CANCER 
The  recommended  dose  ranges  from  120  mg/m2/day  (3.24  mg/kg/day)  to  250  mg/m2/day  (6.76 
mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, administered from 3 up to 5 consecutive days before autologous 
HPCT  depending  on  the  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products,  without 
exceeding  the  total  maximum  cumulative  dose  of  800  mg/m2  (21.62  mg/kg),  during  the  time  of  the 
entire conditioning treatment.  
CNS TUMOURS 
The  recommended  dose  ranges  from  125  mg/m2/day  (3.38  mg/kg/day)  to  250  mg/m2/day  (6.76 
mg/kg/day) divided in one or two daily infusions, administered from 3 up to 4 consecutive days before 
autologous  HPCT  depending  on  the  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products, 
without exceeding the total maximum cumulative dose of 750 mg/m2 (20.27 mg/kg), during the time 
of the entire conditioning treatment.  
OVARIAN CANCER 
The recommended dose is 250 mg/m2/day (6.76 mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, administered in 
2 consecutive days before autologous HPCT, without exceeding the total maximum cumulative dose 
of 500 mg/m2 (13.51 mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
GERM CELL TUMOURS 
The  recommended  dose  ranges  from  150  mg/m2/day  (4.05  mg/kg/day)  to  250  mg/m2/day  (6.76 
mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, administered for 3 consecutive days before autologous HPCT 
depending on the combination with other chemotherapeutic medicinal products, without exceeding the 
total  maximum  cumulative  dose  of  750  mg/m2  (20.27  mg/kg),  during  the  time  of  the  entire 
conditioning treatment.  
Adequate data to demonstrate the well established use of thiotepa in the EU over 10 years as a single 
agent prior to conventional autologous HPCT for adult patients with solid tumours were not submitted. 
Allogeneic HPCT in adult patients 
A total of 1771 patients with haematological diseases received thiotepa i.v., in combination with TBI 
and  other  chemotherapeutic  drugs  as  conditioning  treatment  before  allogeneic  HPCT.  These 
comprised patients with lymphomas (N=187), patients with multiple myeloma (N=53), patients with 
haematological diseases not otherwise specified (N=930), patients with leukemia (N=586) and patients 
with thalassemia (N=15). 
In  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  drugs  the  dose  of  thiotepa  in  haematological  diseases 
ranged from 185 mg/m2/day (5 mg/kg/day) to 481 mg/m2/day (13 mg/kg/day) divided in one or two 
daily infusions administered from 1 up to 3 consecutive days before allogeneic HPCT, depending on 
the  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products  and  without  exceeding  the  total 
maximum  cumulative  dose  of  555  mg/m2  (15  mg/kg)  during  the  time  of  the  entire  conditioning 
treatment. 
The  engraftment  was  achieved  with  success  rates  of  83%  to  100%.  All  the  conditioning  treatments 
evaluated assured a low incidence of acute GvHD grade III-IV (from 2% to 32%, Aversa et al, 1998; 
Bacigalupo et al, 2007a). 
Disease Free Survival (DFS) was reported with an estimated value of 12 to 74 months. DFS ranged 
from  37%  to  64%  at  36  months  (Majolino  et  al,  2007;  Corradini  et  al,  2004)  and  it  was  59%  at  60 
months (Corradini et al, 2005) and 23% at 74 months (Picardi et al, 2004). 
Relapse at 3 years ranged from 12% to 41% (Corradini et al, 2004; Corradini et al,  2007) and it was 
56% at 6 years (Picardi et al, 2004). 
OS ranged from 31% to 81% with a follow up ranging between 7.3 and 120 months. 
OS  at  3  years  ranged  from  62%  to  81%  (Corradini  et  al,  2007;  Corradini  et  al,  2009);  at  5  years  it 
ranged from 50% to 66% (Rosales et al, 1999; Corradini et al, 2005); at 6 years it was 31% (Picardi et 
al,  2004) and at 10 years it was 55% (Bacigalupo et al, 2007b). 
The  recommended  dose  in  adults  with  haematological  diseases  undergoing  allogeneic  HPCT  ranges 
from  185  mg/m2/day  (5  mg/kg/day)  to  481  mg/m2/day  (13  mg/kg/day)  divided  in  one  or  two  daily 
infusions,  administered  from  1  up  to  3  consecutive  days  before  autologous  HPCT  depending  on  the 
Page 39 of 78 
 
 
combination with other chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products, without exceeding the total maximum 
cumulative dose of 555 mg/m2 (15 mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
LYMPHOMA 
The recommended dose in lymphoma is 370 mg/m2/day (10 mg/kg/day) divided in two daily infusions 
before  allogeneic  HPCT,  without  exceeding  the  total  maximum  cumulative  dose  of  370  mg/m2  (10 
mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
MULTIPLE MYELOMA 
The recommended dose is 185 mg/m2/day (5 mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion before allogeneic 
HPCT,  without  exceeding  the  total  maximum  cumulative  dose  of  185  mg/m2  (5  mg/kg),  during  the 
time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
LEUKEMIA 
The recommended dose ranges from 185 mg/m2/day (5 mg/kg/day) to 481 mg/m2/day (13 mg/kg/day) 
divided in one or two daily infusions, administered from 1 up to 2 consecutive days before allogeneic 
HPCT  depending  on  the  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products,  without 
exceeding the total maximum cumulative dose of 555 mg/m2 (15 mg/kg), during the time of the entire 
conditioning treatment.  
THALASSEMIA 
The recommended dose is 370 mg/m2/day (10 mg/kg/day) divided in two daily infusions, administered 
before  allogeneic  HPCT,  without  exceeding  the  total  maximum  cumulative  dose  of  370  mg/m2  (10 
mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment. 
Autologous HPCT in paediatric patients 
A total of 476 patients with CNS tumours (N=378) and solid tumours not otherwise specified (N=98) 
received thiotepa i.v. as conditioning treatment before autologous HPCT. 
In combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs, the dose of thiotepa in solid tumours in paediatric 
patients ranged from 150 mg/m2/day (6 mg/kg/day) to 350 mg/m2/day (14 mg/kg/day) as a single daily 
infusion  administered  from  2  up  to  3  consecutive  days  before  autologous  HPCT,  depending  on  the 
combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products  and  without  exceeding  the  total 
maximum  cumulative  dose  of  1050  mg/m2  (42  mg/kg)  during  the  time  of  the  entire  conditioning 
treatment. 
Engraftment was achieved with all evaluated conditioning regimens including thiotepa. 
Disease Free Survival (DFS) was reported in the evaluated conditioning treatments with an estimated 
value of more than 12 months. From 24 months to 57 months, DFS ranged from 46% to 70% (Grovas 
et al, 1999; Massimino et al, 2005). 
The relapse rates, from 12 up to 57 months, ranged from 33% to 57% (Massimino et al, 2005; Dhall et 
al, 2008).  
OS ranged from 17% to 84% with a follow up ranging from 12.3 to 99.6 months. OS at 36 months was 
44.6%  (Fagioli  et  al,  2004)  and  87.5%  (Massimino  et  al,  2006);  OS  at  57  months  was  43% 
(Massimino et al, 2005); OS at 60 months was 70% (Dhall et al, 2008). 
Considering the high-risk, poor prognosis patients included, the OS results achieved with conditioning 
regimens including thiotepa are satisfactory. 
Thiotepa  used  as  a  single  agent  prior  to  conventional  autologous  HPCT  seems  effective  in  some 
specific  solid 
tumours, 
neuroblastoma) in paediatric patients. However, as no solid comparative data are provided to support 
the  specific  and  exceptional  use  as  single  agent,  this  information  could  not  be  included  in  the 
indication. 
The recommended dose in paediatric patients with solid tumours undergoing autologous HPCT ranges 
from  150  mg/m2/day  (6  mg/kg/day)  to  350  mg/m2/day  (14  mg/kg/day)  as  a  single  daily  infusion, 
administered from 2 up to 3 consecutive days before autologous HPCT depending on the combination 
with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products,  without  exceeding  the  total  maximum  cumulative 
dose of 1050 mg/m2 (42 mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
CNS TUMOURS 
The  recommended  dose  ranges  from  250  mg/m2/day  (10  mg/kg/day)  to  350  mg/m2/day  (14 
mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, administered for 3 consecutive days before autologous HPCT 
depending on the combination with other chemotherapeutic medicinal products, without exceeding the 
tumours,  osteosarcoma,  Ewing 
(malignant  mesenchymal 
tumours 
Page 40 of 78 
 
 
total maximum cumulative dose of 1050 mg/m2 (42 mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning 
treatment. 
Allogeneic HPCT in paediatric patients 
A total of 426 patients with haematological diseases received thiotepa i.v, in combination with other 
chemotherapeutic drugs and TBI as conditioning treatment before allogeneic HPCT. These comprised 
patients with leukemia (N=228), patients with thalassemia (N=139), patients with refractory cytopenia 
(N=19) patients with genetic diseases (N=26) and patients with sickle cell anaemia (N=14). 
In combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs the dose of thiotepa in haematological diseases in 
paediatric  patients  ranged  from125  mg/m2/day  (5  mg/kg/day)  to  250  mg/m2/day  (10  mg/kg/day), 
divided in once or twice daily infusions administered from 1 to 3 consecutive days before allogeneic 
HPCT,  depending  on  the  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products  and  without 
exceeding the total maximum cumulative dose of 375 mg/m2 (15 mg/kg) during the time of the entire 
conditioning treatment. 
Engraftment ranged from 96% to 100% in all evaluated conditioning regimens including thiotepa. 
Disease Free Survival (DFS) ranged from 40% to 75% at timepoints greater than 1 year (Locatelli et 
al, 2009). In acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), thiotepa, TBI and cyclophosphamide ensure a DFS 
of 60% at 121 months (Locatelli et al, 2009). In thalassemia, DFS was 66% (La Nasa et al, 2002) and 
95% (Locatelli et al, 2009). 
Relapse rates of 25% (Zecca et al, 1999) and 44% (Locatelli et al, 2009) were reported. The relapse-
related  death  at  36  months  was  15%  (Zecca  et  al,  1999).  The  relapse  in  thalassemic  and  genetic 
disease  patients  was  very  low  as  1.5%  (Locatelli  et  al,  2009)  and  3.8%  (Rosales  et  al,  1999), 
respectively. 
OS ranged from 50% to 100% with a follow up ranging between 9.4 and 121 months. In patients who 
underwent  allogeneic  transplantation  to  treat  acute  lymphoblastic  leukaemia  OS  at  41  months  was 
75%, and at 121 months it was 65% (Locatelli et al, 2009). 
Overall,  thiotepa  was  used  in  several  different  hematological  malignant  and  non  malignant  diseases 
with  different  allogeneic  transplant  settings  (unmanipulated,  T  cell  depleted,  CD34  selected,  cord 
blood, myeloablative, intensified, reduced intensity). 
The  recommended  dose  in  paediatric  patients  with  haematological  diseases  undergoing  aloogeneic 
HPCT ranges from 125 mg/m2/day (5 mg/kg/day) to 250 mg/m2/day (10 mg/kg/day) divided in one or 
two daily infusions, administered from 1 up to 3 consecutive days before allogeneic HPCT depending 
on  the  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products,  without  exceeding  the  total 
maximum  cumulative  dose  of  375  mg/m2  (15  mg/kg),  during  the  time  of  the  entire  conditioning 
treatment.  
LEUKEMIA 
The recommended dose is 250 mg/m2/day (10 mg/kg/day) divided in two daily infusions, administered 
before  allogeneic  HPCT,  without  exceeding  the  total  maximum  cumulative  dose  of  250  mg/m2  (10 
mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
THALASSEMIA 
The recommended dose ranges from 200 mg/m2/day (8 mg/kg/day) to 250 mg/m2/day (10 mg/kg/day) 
divided  in  two  daily  infusions,  administered  before  allogeneic  HPCT  without  exceeding  the  total 
maximum  cumulative  dose  of  250  mg/m2  (10  mg/kg),  during  the  time  of  the  entire  conditioning 
treatment.  
REFRACTORY CYTOPENIA 
The recommended dose is 125 mg/m2/day (5 mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, administered for 3 
consecutive days before allogeneic HPCT, without exceeding the total maximum cumulative dose of 
375 mg/m2 (15 mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
GENETIC DISEASES 
The recommended dose is 125 mg/m2/day (5 mg/kg/day) as a single daily infusion, administered for 2 
consecutive days before allogeneic HPCT, without exceeding the total maximum cumulative dose of 
250 mg/m2 (10 mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
SICKLE CELL ANAEMIA 
The recommended dose is 250 mg/m2/day (10 mg/kg/day) divided in two daily infusions, administered 
before  allogeneic  HPCT,  without  exceeding  the  total  maximum  cumulative  dose  of  250  mg/m2  (10 
mg/kg), during the time of the entire conditioning treatment.  
Page 41 of 78 
 
 
Clinical safety 
  Patient exposure 
Thiotepa  has  been  in  clinical  use  for  several  decades,  in  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic 
drugs  as  follows  prior  to  conventional  HPCT  in  haematological  diseases  and  solid  tumours.  The 
applicant has presented bibliographic data for a total of 6588 adult patients and 902 paediatric patients. 
The number of patients by type of disease and type of chemotherapeutic regimen received, as well as 
the relevant publications serving as the source of data, are  summarised in the efficacy tables 5, 6, 7 
and  8.  Additionally,  316  adult  patients  receiving  autologous  HPCT  were  included  in  the  safety 
analysis.  These  included  39  breast  cancer  patients  receiving  TT/CY  (Ando  2000),  251 breast  cancer 
patients  receiving  TT/CY/MITO  (Kroger  2003)  and  26  ovarian  cancer  patients  receiving 
TT/CC/CISPL (Stiff 2004). 
  Adverse events/Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Clinical  data  on  Adverse  events  grade  I-II,  Adverse  events  grade  III-IV  (collected  at  +100  days), 
Regimen Related Mortality (RRM) and Treatment Related Mortality (TRM) have been evaluated by 
the Applicant in the different conditioning treatments including thiotepa with or without TBI for adult 
and paediatric patients undergoing autologous and allogeneic HPCT for haematological diseases and 
solid  tumours.  The  data  are  presented  separately  for  adults  and  children  and  for  autologous  and 
allogeneic HPCT.  
Autologous HPCT in adult patients 
In  autologous  HPCT  the  safety  database  consisted  of  a  total  of  4817  patients  with  haematological 
diseases  (N=826)  and  with  solid  tumours  (N=3991).  These  patients  received  thiotepa  i.v.  in 
combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs as conditioning treatment before autologous HPCT. 
Haematological diseases 
- In Gopal et al, 2001, Gutierrez-Delgado et al, 2001 and Gutierrez-Delgado et al, 2003, lymphoma 
patients (N=204) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan and melphalan. 
At  the  time  of  autologous  transplantation,  patients  with  advanced/refractory  Hodgkin’s  disease  have 
usually been heavily pretreated to be kept in clinical remission; consequently, they are at high risk for 
toxicity including VOD and multiorgan failure syndrome.   
In  Gutierrez-Delgado  et  al,  2001  and  Gutierrez-Delgado  et  al,  2003,  low  rates  of  TRM  were 
reported at 1% and 16%, respectively. These results are even more important considering that a high 
number of patients with prior dose limiting radiation therapy were enrolled (in literature these patients 
are characterized by a high morbidity and toxicity). 
-  In  Przepiorka  et  al,  1995,  lymphomas  patients  (N=34)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
busulfan and cyclophosphamide. The safety results were encouraging considering the advanced status 
of the diseases and that increases in the dose of thiotepa allowed decreases of the doses of busulfan 
and cyclophosphamide without increasing the overall regimen toxicity.  
- In Demirer et al, 2004, lymphoma patients (N=42) received thiotepa in combination with melphalan 
and carboplatin. This conditioning treatment showed a good safety profile. 
- In Waheed et al, 2004 and Glossmann et al, 2005, lymphoma patients (N=125) received thiotepa in 
combination  with  mitoxantrone  and  carboplatin.  The  regimen  was  well  tolerated  with  only  4  and  5 
transplant-related  deaths,  respectively.  Unlike  recipients  of  BEAM  therapy,  which  is  usually 
associated  with  high  rates  of  pulmonary  toxicity  due  to  the  overlapping  effects  of  BCNU,  those 
receiving the thiotepa-based conditioning had only 6% grade III-IV pulmunary toxicity and, as for late 
toxicity, 5% of second malignancies were observed (Waheed et al, 2004). 
-  In  Papadopoulos  et  al,  2005  lymphoma  patients  (N=31)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
carboplatin  and  etoposide.  The  regimen  was  a  tandem  HD  chemotherapy  represented  by  melphalan 
and mitoxantrone followed by thiotepa, carboplatin and etoposide. The RRT was 9.7% and this very 
intensive strategy could be applied as rescue therapy based on the acceptable results in term of safety. 
Page 42 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  In  Cumpston  et  al,  2007,  lymphoma  patients  (N=29)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide and etoposide. This study reported 3 deaths of infections in patients with advanced 
NHL suggesting good safety profile with TRM = 10,3%.  
-  In  the  study  McCoy  2004,  lymphoma  patients  (N=65)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
etoposide.  Although  all  these  patients  had  received  several  courses  of  chemotherapy,  the  high-dose 
thiotepa-etoposide regimen was safe and only one patient died of regimen related mortality. 
There  were  3  secondary  malignancies  (etoposide  is  a  risk  factor  for  the  second  haematological 
malignancies): 1 AML after 29 days from  ASCT  at 7  months after transplant, one carcinoma of the 
bladder (but the patients remained free of lymphoma after 82 months of follow-up) and one MDS 6 
years after transplant (patient who received four pre transplant therapeutic regimens and one cycle of 
ﬂudarabine for relapse 5 years post transplant). 
-  In  Illerhaus  et  al,  2006,  CNS  lymphoma  patients  (N=23)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
carmustine.  Patients  tolerated  induction  therapy  and  HDT  had  a  very  good  profile  of  safety  with  a 
TRM = 0. The very low relapse  mortality (8.7%) associated  with the high survival rates (87%) at 5 
years suggests that this conditioning treatment may be curative. 
- In Montemurro et al, 2007, CNS lymphoma patients (N=16) received thiotepa in combination with 
busulfan. This combination of high dose thiotepa and busulfan for PCNSL showed good tolerability 
and it is a promising approach without severe neurotoxicity when WBRT is avoided. 
-  In  Dimopoulos  et  al,  1993,  Shimoni  2001  et  al,  and  Anagnostopoulos  et  al,  2004,  multiple 
myeloma patients (N=257) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan and cyclophosphamide. 
These studies were designed as an alternative regimen for optimizing cytoreduction prior to transplant 
in anticipation of better disease control. Each drug used in this combination has a different spectrum of 
extra-medullary  toxicity.  To  decrease  the  relative  high  incidence  of  RRT  the  authors  decided  to 
introduce thiotepa in order to reduce the busulfan dose. High dose of thiotepa showed anti-myeloma 
activity.  Early  TRM  was  comparable  with  melphalan/TBI  or  non-TBI  regimens.  The  comparative 
study Anagnostopoulos et al, 2004 between thiotepa, busulfan and cyclophosphamide vs high dose of 
melphalan showed the same efficacy but more toxicity (6 RRT vs 1 RRT) for the TT/BU/CY regimen. 
In conclusion, positive safety profile is reported in two studies (Shimoni 2001 and Dimopoulos 1993) 
while  the  comparison  study  (Anagnostopoulos  2004)  suggests  that  the  tolerability  of  high  dose  of 
melphalan is better although the results are the same in terms of efficacy.  
Solid tumours 
Adults with solid tumours (N=3991) comprised patients with breast cancer (N=3747), CNS tumours 
(N=108), ovarian cancer (N=74) and germ cell tumours (N=62). 
- In Ando et al, 2000, Tallman et al, 2003 and Leonard et al, 2004, breast cancer patients (N=605) 
received thiotepa in combination with cyclophosphamide. 
The increased time to recurrence suggests that the long-term outcome may improve if transplantation-
related  mortality  can  be  avoided  (Tallman  et  al,  2003).  Because  of  the  low  incidence  of  treatment-
related  mortality,  the  results  appear  to  reflect  a  genuine  equivalence  in  efficacy  and  in  safety  of  the 
two treatments (conventional and high-dose) (Leonard et al, 2004). A possible etiology of heart block 
is  the  physical  damage  to  the  conduction  system  secondary  to  microangiopathy  or  transient  spasm 
caused  by  CY-induced  injury  of  capillary  endothelium.  Such  complication  has  never  been  reported 
with thiotepa (Ando et al, 2000). 
- In Weaver et al, 1997, Stemmer et al, 2001, Stemmer et al, 2003, Rodenhuis et al, 2003, Schrama 
et al, 2003, Rodenhuis et al, 2006 and Coombes et al, 2005, breast cancer patients (N=2119) received 
thiotepa in combination with cyclophosphamide and carboplatin. 
High-dose alkylating chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, thiotepa and carboplatin was reasonably 
safe in patients with primary stage III breast cancer (Rodenhuis et al, 2006). 
High-dose  cyclophosphamide,  thiotepa  and  carboplatin  was  associated  with  low  risk  of  mortality 
compared to other regimens (p=0.0001). Thus, high-dose chemotherapy and autologous PBPC support 
can be performed in community cancer centres with relative safety (Weaver et al, 1997). 
The HDC regimen was associated with an increase in grade III-IV toxicities of various types, but there 
was  similar  occurrence  of  treatment-related  deaths  in  both  study  arms  (HDC  and  conventional) 
(Coombes  et  al,  2005).  High-dose  chemotherapy  was  associated  with  a  moderate  mainly  reversible 
toxicity. The toxic death rate was only 1% (Schrama et al, 2003). The RRT mortality rate (1%) was 
less  than  the  rate  (7.4%)  previously  reported  for  the  regimen  of  cisplatin,  cyclophosphamide  and 
carmustine. In addition, there were no significant differences in the quality of life between treatment 
Page 43 of 78 
 
groups  (Rodenhuis  et  al,  2003).  Locoregional  radiotherapy  after  high-dose  chemotherapy  and 
autologous  stem  cell  transplantation  appears  to  be  feasible  and  can  be  delivered  safely  within  10 
weeks  from  transplantation  in  patients  with  high-risk  stage  II-III  and  locally  advanced  breast 
carcinoma  (Stemmer  et  al,  2001).  The  combined  approach  of  doxorubicin  followed  by  high-dose 
chemotherapy and stem cell support followed by locoregional radiotherapy was safe and effective in 
patients with multinode positive stage II breast cancer (Stemmer et al, 2003). 
-  In  Wong  et  al,  2003  and  Cheng  et  al,  2004,  breast  cancer  patients  (N=341)  received  thiotepa  in 
combination with cyclophosphamide and carmustine. The HDC regimen thiotepa-cyclophosphamide-
carmustine was well tolerated with a very low TRM in both studies. IPS seems to be associated with 
the  high  dose  of  carmustine.  The  reduction  in  the  dose  of  carmustine-based  regimens  may  improve 
rates of lung toxicity and improve patient outcomes (Wong et al, 2003). 
-  In  Nitz  et  al,  2005,  breast  cancer  patients  (N=201)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide and epirubicine. Absence of TRM and a single patient death suggest that this high-
dose chemotherapy regimen is safe and feasible.  
- In Kroger et al, 2003 and Zander et al, 2004, breast cancer patients (N=401) received thiotepa in 
combination  with  cyclophosphamide  and  mitoxantrone.  The  HDC  tolerability  was  as  expected 
(Zander et al, 2004). MDS/AML after mitoxanrone-based HDC is a possible but rare complication in 
breast cancer patients (Kroger et al, 2003). 
-  In  Yalamanchili  et  al,  2008,  breast  cancer  patients  (N=28)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
mitoxantrone and carboplatin. The HDC regimen was considered safe and effective. 
- In Rose et al, 2000, breast cancer patients (N=52) received thiotepa alone as conditioning treatment. 
Because  the  cardiac  toxicity  was  acceptable,  breast  cancer  patients  with  impaired  left  ventricular 
function could be treated with HDC. 
- In Papadopoulos et al, 1998, CNS tumours patients (N=15) received thiotepa in combination with 
etoposide and carmustine. The mortality after HDC and autologous stem cell transplantation was low 
(3%)  and  does  not  differ  significantly  from  the  mortality  associated  with  conventional-dose 
chemotherapy. 
-  In  Papadopoulos  et  al,  1998,  CNS  tumours  patients  (N=3)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
etoposide  and  carboplatin.  TRM  rate  was  0%;  however,this  does  not  differ  significantly  from  the 
mortality associated with conventional-dose chemotherapy. 
-  In  Cairncross  et  al,  2000  and  Abrey  et  al,  2006,  CNS  tumours  patients  (N=59)  received  thiotepa 
alone. Previous brain irradiation may have contributed to severe toxic reactions because in an ongoing 
companion study neither irreversible encephalopathy nor prolonged anorexia was observed in a series 
of newly diagnosed patients with anaplastic oligodendrogliomas treated with I-PVC chemotherapy and 
high-dose  thiotepa  instead  of  radiation  (Cairncross  et  al,  2000).  In  Abrey  et  al,  2006,  the  protocol 
was  designed  to  replace  radiotherapy  with  myeloablative  dose  of  thiotepa  in  an  effort  to  eradicate 
microscopic disease and provide non neurototoxic antitumour therapy.  
-  In  Chen  et  al,  2004,  CNS  tumours  patients  (N=21)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
carboplatin. High-dose chemotherapy with thiotepa and carboplatin with concomitant autologous stem 
cell transplant may be used safely to treat patients with malignant astrocytomas. 
- In Gill et al, 2008, CNS tumours patients (N=10) received thiotepa in combination with carmustine 
for the treatment of embryonal CNS tumours. No toxic deaths and excellent tolerance were reported. 
-  In  Stiff  et  al,  2004,  ovarian  cancer  patients  (N=26)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide  and  cisplatin.  The  non-hematopoietic  toxicity  of  this  CTC  regimen  was  higher 
when compared with CARB/MITOX/CY (CMC) group, primarily as a result of higher rate of severe 
nephrotoxicity and GI toxicity (including significant stomatitis). 
-  In  Holmberg  et  al,  1998,  ovarian  cancer  patients  (N=31)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
busulfan and melphalan. The regimen including TT/BU/MEL was characterized by a good tolerability 
considering mainly the status of disease at the time of ASCT. 3% of patients died of regimen related 
toxicity  (RRT)  and  6%  of  transplant  related  mortality  (TRM).  TRM  occurred  only  in  patients  with 
advanced  disease  such  as  stage  IV  breast  cancer,  advance  lymphomas  or  in  heavily  pre  treated 
patients. TRM rate was 0% in patients with stage II-III breast cancer or less advanced lymphoma. In 
conclusion,  the  regimen  TT/BU/Mel  was  well  tolerated  in  a  subset  of  patients  with  low  and 
intermediate disease status. 
-  In  Tiersten  et  al,  2006,  ovarian  cancer  patients  (N=17)  received  thiotepa  alone.  The  non 
hematological toxicity was limited and the three-cycle regimen of multiagent HDC with PBPC support 
in patients with advanced ovarian cancer can be considered well tolerated. 
Page 44 of 78 
-  In  Rick  et  al,  2001,  germ  cell  tumour  patients  (N=62)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
etoposide  and  carboplatin.  Treatment  with  conventional-dose  chemotherapy  followed  by  high-dose 
chemotherapy  was  feasible  in  patients  with  relapsed  or  refractory  germ  cell  tumours,  but  peripheral 
nervous toxicity in approximately one third of patients is a disadvantage of this salvage strategy. 
Allogeneic HPCT in adult patients 
intensity  regimen  (RIC)  with 
A total of 1771 patients with haematological diseases received thiotepa i.v. in combinations with other 
chemotherapeutic drugs and TBI as conditioning treatment before allogeneic HPCT. 
- In Corradini et al, 2004 and Corradini et al, 2007, lymphoma patients (N=187) received thiotepa in 
combination with fludarabine and cyclophoshamide.  The studies showed the good results in terms of 
safety  achieved  using  a  reduced 
thiotepa,  fludarabine  and 
cyclophosphamide  to  treat  advanced  lymphoma  with  allogeneic  transplantation  in  patients  with 
significant comorbidity. TRM was very low in both studies: 6% and 13%, respectively. 
- In  Majolino et al, 2007,  multiple  myeloma patients (N=53) received thiotepa in combination with 
fludarabine  and  melphalan.  Acute  GvHD  of  grade  III/IV  occurred  in  5%  in  contrast  with  high 
incidence of chronic GvHD (64%) probably due to a short course of CsA (diagnosed at a median of 
191  days  coinciding  with  CsA  withdrawal).  TRM  of  13%  compares  favourably  with  the  very  high 
incidence of mortality of the standard myeloablative regimens. 
These results obtained with RIC including thiotepa, fludarabine and melphalan show that this regimen 
could be safer than myeloalative conditioning regimens. 
- In Raiola et al, 2000, Di Grazia et al, 2001, Bacigalupo et al, 2007a, Bacigalupo et al, 2007, and 
Bacigalupo  et  al,  2009,  patients  with  haematological  diseases  not  otherwise  specified  (N=625) 
received thiotepa in combination with cyclophosphamide. 
In  all  studies,  a  reduced  intensity  regimen  was  used  with  a  dose  of  thiotepa  =  10  mg/kg  and  it  was 
often compared with a conventional regimen thiotepa > 10 mg/kg (Bacigalupo et al, 2009) or with a 
intensified regimen (thiotepa + cyclophosphamide supplemented with melphalan or TBI) (Bacigalupo 
et al, 2007a, Di Grazia et al, 2001). The most common adverse events were: infections, leukaemias, 
acute and chronic GvHD. Hepatitis, multi-organ failure, second malignancy and hemorrage were less 
frequent. In Bacigalupo et al, 2009, leukemia was the main common cause of death. After more than 
5 of follow-up, the rate of leukemia was below 3% with any conditioning regimen. Rate of deaths due 
to  GvHD  with  thiotepa  regimens  in  the  first  year  was  9%  with  the  10  mg/kg  regimen,  while  it  was 
2.3% with 15 mg/kg. In all five studies, reduced intensity conditioning with TT+CY was associated 
with  a  low  transplant-related  mortality  (mean  23.8%).  In  Raiola  et  al,  2000  and  Bacigalupo  et  al, 
2007b, bone marrow graft recipients showed a low incidence of chronic GvHD (35% vs 75%) and of 
TRM (6% vs 29%) than peripheral blood ones. In Bacigalupo et al, 2009 and in Raiola et al, 2000, 
TRM  was  lower  with  a  reduced  intensity  preparative  regimen  than  with  conventional  or  intensified 
ones. 
These 5 studies show that the thiotepa-based conditioning regimens are associated with low toxicity, 
when  used  in  combination  with  cyclophosphamide  or  fludarabine  alone,  especially  in  patients  with 
early  disease;  they  produce  encouraging  long  term  survival,  with  a  low  incidence  of  GvHD;  the 
addition  of  melphalan  or  low  dose  TBI  reduces  relapse-related  deaths,  but  increases  significantly 
transplant-related  mortality.  Disease  phase  and  source  remains  a  major  predictor  of  outcome. 
Advanced age appears not to be associated with increased risk of non relapse mortality in patients that 
used thiotepa in conditioning regimens. 
-  In  Corradini  et  al,  2005,  patients  with  haematological  diseases  not  otherwise  specified  (N=150) 
received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  cyclophosphamide  and  fludarabine.  A  reduced  intensity 
TT+CY+FLU  regimen  (RIC)  was  used.  It  was  thought  that  RIC  could  lower  the  incidence  of  acute 
GVHD because of a reduction of tissue and mucosal barrier damage but, at present, the incidence of 
acute GVHD after RIC remains a cause of concern. The presence of an adverse prognostic factor, such 
as a previously failed autograft, increases significantly the toxicity of RIC transplantations. This is the 
first  study  which  shows  that  age  greater  than  55  years  is  not  a  risk  factor  per  se  when  the 
TT+CY+FLU  RIC  regimen  is  used.  Nevertheless,  in  the  older  age  category,  a  previously  failed 
autograft is a risk factor affecting NRM and OS. This implies that correct timing of allogeneic SCT 
can limit its toxicity. In addition, a major improvement in RIC programs should concern the reduction 
of severe acute GVHD. 
Page 45 of 78 
 
 
 
- In Alessandrino et al, 2001, Alessandrino et al, 2004, Picardi et al, 2004 and Grullich et al, 2008, 
patients with haematological diseases not otherwise specified (N=93) received thiotepa in combination 
with fludarabine. 
In  Alessandrino  et  al,  2004,  mild  nausea  and  vomiting  (grade  I)  occurred  in  two  patients.  In  three 
cases, a slight increase of amylases (grade I) was noticed. No evidence of renal or liver toxicity was 
found. No evidence of mild or severe mucositis was noted. Four patients died of nonrelapse causes and 
five  of  relapse.  TRM  was  19%  at  1  year  after  transplant  which  compares  favourably  with  that  of 
myeloablative approaches.  
In Picardi et al, 2004, four patients experienced a toxicity grade > II. Mucositis was of grade III in 2 
patients  and  of  grade  II  in  7.  Grade  I  renal  toxicity  was  observed  in  4  patients  (18%).  No  veno-
occlusive  disease  of  the  liver  was  observed.  One  patient  died  on  day  +27  post-transplant  of  cardiac 
toxicity and one patient died of multiorgan failure (MOF) after transplant. One additional patient died 
of cerebral aneurysm and respiratory distress. Six patients died of infectious complications occurring 
within 6 months from transplant. The 6-year cumulative incidence of TRM was 38%.  
In Grullich et al, 2008, 9 patients (18%) suffered 14 severe nonhaematological toxicity events (grade 
IV/V) with fatal outcome in two of them. There were seven cases of severe renal toxicities, one with 
fatal outcome; one case of severe cardiac toxicity with fatal outcome; five cases of severe pulmonary 
toxicity and one case of severe neurological toxicity. Severe toxicities were attributable to metotrexate 
in  three  patients  who  received  metotrexate  for  GVHD  prophylaxis.  The  estimated  Non  Relapse 
Mortality at 1 year is 29%. This is a very promising result considering that other investigators reported 
an  NRM  rate  ranging  between  50  and  80%  for  patients  receiving  a  conventional  high  dose 
chemotherapy regimen for second transplantation after the failure of a previous auto- or allograft.  
- In Bethge et al, 2006, patients with haematological diseases not otherwise specified (N=10) received 
thiotepa in combination with fludarabine, melphalan and OKT3. This regimen is of low toxicity with 
maximal CTC grade II/III mucositis and moderate degree of nausea as most pronounced side effects, 
enabling its use even in an older or heavily pretreated patient population. Neurotoxicity was observed 
in 4 patients treated with 200 mg/m2 fludarabine. The dose was reduced to 150 mg/m2 with no further 
cases  of  neuropathy  thereafter.Treatment-related  mortality  in  the  first  100  days  was  30%,  with  one 
death  each  due  to  idiopathic  pneumonia  syndrome,  GVHD,  and  CMV  disease.  Reflecting  the  fast 
engraftment  and  low  toxicity  of  the  conditioning  regimen  containing  thiotepa,  median  hospital  stay 
after HCT was 24 (range, 19–101) days. 
-  In  Jakubowski  et  al,  2007,  patients  with  haematological  diseases  not  otherwise  specified  (N=52) 
received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  TBI  and  fludarabine.  The  study  addressed  the  challenge  of 
facilitating  T-cell  recovery  and  decreasing  regimen-related  toxicity  with  several  modifications  to  a 
standard TBI-based transplantation regimen. A major benefit observed in the current study relates to 
the T-cell recovery, measured by CD4 counts and PHA responses in vitro, and its apparent impact on 
OIs. In fact, only 2% engrafted patient died of OIs compared to the incidence of 5% to 23 % of fatal 
OIs reported in literature. The removal of ATG from this regimen reduced the incidence of EBV-LPD: 
only two cases (4%) occurred in 49 patiens. 
19  (35%)  of  the  52  patients  died  and  very  early  bacterial  infections  accounted  for  at  least  half  the 
infectious  deaths.  In  literature,  the  incidence  of  bacteremia  in  patients  receiving  TBI-containing 
regimens is reported at 35%, especially in those including fludarabine. 
- In Bacigalupo et al, 1996 and Bacigalupo et al, 2007c, leukemia patients (N=78) received thiotepa 
in combination with cyclophosphamide. 75 of the patients underwent allogenic marrow transplantation 
from an HLA identical sibling. In these studies TRM associated with thiotepa and cyclophosphamide 
regimen was very low (13% and 29%, respectively).  
Bacigalupo  et  al,  2007  highlight  the  comparable  TRM  values  in  patients  treated  with  thiotepa-  or 
busulfan-based regimens. 
In Bacigalupo et al, 1996, TRM was higher with the higher CY dose confirming that CY is associated 
with significant toxicity in recipients of HPCT, particularly when transplanted in advanced stages of 
disease  or  in  advanced  ages  (>50  years).  This  study  reported  acceptable  short  term  side  effects  of 
grade III-IV (the most frequent being mucositis). Despite the fact that it was an allogeneic setting with 
large  numbers  of  T  cells  and  elderly  patients,  the  liver  toxicity  was  acceptable.  Acute  and  chronic 
GvHD was observed in both studies. In Bacigalupo et al, 1996, 87% of patients developed no or mild 
acute and chronic GvHD. Bacigalupo et al, 2007c reported a comparable incidence of chronic GvHD 
in patients receiving TT and CY or BU and CY; the lower incidence of acute GvHD in patients treated 
with BU and CY is probably due to the dose ATG administered only to this group of patients.  
Page 46 of 78 
-  In  Rosales  et  al,  1999,  leukemia  patients  (N=30)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide  and  busulfan.  In  order  to  reduce  the  risk  of  relapse  and  maintain  the  therapeutic 
potential of stem cell allografting while avoiding GvHD, the conventional conditioning regimen for T-
cell depleted grafts, consisting of BU and CY, has been intensified by the addition of thiotepa. 
TRM was 40%. Overall rates of organ toxicity were low with predominant complications being grade 
I-II mucositis and gastrointestinal toxicities. The incidence of liver, pulmonary and CNS toxicity was 
substantially lower than generally reported. No acute skin toxicity or cardiotoxicity were observed. A 
rather high incidence of GvHD has been observed. This could be due to incomplete T-cell depletion, 
the administration of donor peripheral blood lymphocytes (DLI), or to the intensification of the pre-
BMT conditioning regimen.  
- In Lacerda et al, 2003, leukemia patients (N=14) received thiotepa in combination with fludarabine, 
melphalan  and  ATG  followed  by  standard  doses  of  immunoselected  CD34+  peripheral  blood  cells 
from haploidentical donors. Most conditioning regimens in haplotype-disparate transplantations have 
included total body irradiation, which is highly immunosuppressive, because of the significant risk of 
graft failure after the infusion of T cell-depleted grafts. This conditioning regimen was composed of 
chemotherapy alone. The results of this study demonstrate a minimal toxicity of TT/FLU/ATG/MEL 
regimen.  The  major  adverse  events  were  viral  and  bacterial  infections  (71%  and  50%).  3  patients 
developed  a  GvHD  grade  III-IV  (5  patients  developed  acute  GvHD  grade  I-II)  and  2  patients 
developed chronic GvHD. No instance of hepatic veno-occlusive disease was observed.  
- In Rigden et al, 1996 and Papadopoulos et al, 1998, leukemia patients (N=81) received thiotepa in 
combination with TBI and cyclophosphamide. 58 patients underwent allogenic marrow transplantation 
from  matched  sibling  donors  and  23  from  unrelated  donors.  The  curative  potential  of  an  allogeneic 
BMT is often been mitigated by the risks of transplant-associated morbidity and mortality, particularly 
due to GvHD and its complications. An important result of these 2 studies was the low incidence of 
GvHD observed. Significant acute GvHD grade III-IV occurs generally in 10-30% of sibling-matched 
recipients and 36-61% of MUD recipients; chronic GvHD usually develops in 30-60% of sibling and 
60-70% of MUD recipients (Rigden et al, 1996). In these 2 studies only 6 of 81 patients developed 
acute  GvHD,  all  in  MUD  recipients  (Rigden  et  al,  1996).  A  total  of  8  patients  developed  chronic 
GvHD. The studies further suggested that the conditioning regimen (TBI/TT/CY) is well tolerated and 
associated  with  little  therapy-related  toxicity.  Fungal  and  viral  infections,  and  lymphoproliferative 
disorders  (a  consequence  of  the  in  vivo  T-cell  depletion  effect  exerted  by  the  ATG)  were  observed 
with a low incidence. Clinical veno-occlusive disease was not seen in these patients, witch contrasts 
favorably  with  the  24%  incidence  reported  by  the  National  Marrow  Donor  Program  (Rigden  et  al, 
1996). 
-  In  Aversa  et  al,  1994,  Aversa  et  al,  1999  and  Aversa  et  al,  2001,  leukemia  patients  (N=107) 
received thiotepa in combination with TBI, cyclophosphamide and ATG. The purpose of these studies 
was  to  test  whether  the  conditioning  regimen  based  on  thiotepa,  antithymocyte  globulin, 
cyclophosphamide  and  TBI  facilitates  engraftment  of  an  extensively  T-cell–depleted  transplant  in 
patients with advanced refractory leukemia. The regimen was associated with low extrehaematologic 
toxicities. In Aversa et al, 1994, a TRM of 53% was reported. In Aversa et al, 1999, there were 13 
nonleukemic  deaths  in  16.6%  of  patients  who  underwent  BMT  while  in  remission  and  in  38.8%  of 
patients  who  underwent  BMT  while  in  relapse.  These  figures  compare  favourably  with  the  21% 
transplant-related mortality rate reported in literature. The cumulative incidence of fatal infections was 
8.3% in the 36 patients who underwent BMT while in first or second remission and 23.5% in the 17 
patients who underwent BMT while in relapse. The low incidence of infectious deaths was probably 
because no posttransplant immunosuppressive therapy was given, no acute or chronic GVHD occurred 
in  any  patient,  and,  consequently,  their  posttransplant  immunologic  recovery  was  not  seriously 
delayed. Indeed, no patient died of infection after posttransplant day 150. In conclusion, prevention of 
GVHD  without  increased  transplant-related  mortality  should  enable  patients  who  rarely  were 
considered  suitable  candidates  for  unmanipulated  transplants  because  of  advanced  age  or  advanced-
stage disease or both to have the option of this strategy. 
-  In  Aversa  et  al,  1998,  Aversa  et  al,  2001,  Aversa  et  al,  2002  and  Aversa  et  al,  2005,  leukemia 
patients (N=276) received thiotepa in combination with TBI and fludarabine and ATG. 
These  studies  were  designed  to  test  a  conditioning  regimen  that  would  facilitate  engraftment  of  an 
extensively T-cell–depleted mismatched transplant without excessive non-hematologic toxicity, which 
has  been  a  considerable  problem 
trials.  Substituting  fludarabine  for 
in  previous  clinical 
cyclophosphamide, Aversa et al did not reduce the degree of immunosuppression (even at the lower 
Page 47 of 78 
dosage of fludarabine): this is indicated by the lack of clonable T cells in peripheral blood at the end of 
the conditioning regimen and by the excellent engraftment. Furthermore, non hematologic toxicity was 
minimal: there was no veno-occlusive disease, and the incidence of severe mucositis was low, even in 
advanced  stage,  heavily  pretreated  patients.  Despite  the  rapid  neutrophil  recovery,  recipients  of 
mismatched transplant tended to remain susceptible to opportunistic infections and in fact, many of the 
non-leukemic deaths were  caused by infections. The  high incidence of infectious complications was 
probably due to the delay in the recovery of T cells. 
However, the fact that the majority of patients had been heavily pre-treated and their long history of 
disease leading to bacterial and fungal colonization before transplant, must be kept in mind. Indeed, 
irrespective  of  the  conditioning  regimen  used,  a  history  of  infections  and  colonization  at  transplant 
were the most significant factors for infection-related deaths. 
A singular finding was the low incidence of GVHD in these patients. The ATG that was administered 
during  conditioning  might  have  helped  prevent  GVHD  by  a  cytotoxic  effect  against  donor  T 
lymphocytes.  The  average  overall  TRM  of  38%  needs  to  be  viewed  in  light  of  the  clinical 
characteristics of this cohort of patients. Most were at high risk of TRM because of advanced disease 
status at transplantation. Although TRM was mainly infection-related, no fatal infection occurred after 
the first year post-transplantation, indicating that there is no risk of late infection-related death in the 
absence of chronic GvHD and immunosuppressive therapy. 
-  In  La  Nasa  et  al,  2005,  thalassemia  patients  (N=15)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide and busulfan. 
This study suggested that the outcome of unrelated donor BMT in adult, class 3 thalassemia patients is 
similar  to  that  reported  in  the  literature  for  patients  belonging  to  the  same  class  of  risk  transplanted 
from an HLA-identical sibling donor. 
A low incidence of grade I-II GvHD (22% acute GvHD in 22% and 15% chronic GvHD) and and of 
grade  III-IV  GvHD  (15%  acute  GvHD  and  7,4%  chronic  GvHD)  was  observed.  No  other  types  of 
toxicity were reported. 
This  relatively  low  incidence  of  GVHD  can  probably  be  attributed  to  the  careful  immunogenetic 
selection of the donor/recipient pairs. Overall, GvHD, particularly in the severe form, was reduced in 
patients  who  shared  at  least  one  extended  HLA  haplotype  with  the  donor.  The  mortality  due  to 
transplant is 30% and the major causes of death are organ impairment, CMV infection and occurrence 
of GvHD. Although the difference between patients treated with BU+TT+CY and with BU+CY was 
not statistically significant, a higher number of deaths was observed in patients conditioned with the 
protocol including TT (6/15=40% vs 2/11=17%). A conditioning regimen with three drugs (BU-TT-
CY)  appeared  to  be  too  toxic  for  patients  with  organ  impairment  due  to  iron  overload  or  hepatitis 
infection. Although the only patient who experienced graft failure was prepared with the combination 
of BU-CY, this regimen seems to be better indicated in adult patients with heavy iron overload. 
Autologous HPCT in paediatric patients with solid tumours 
Paediatric  patients  (infants  and  toddlers,  children  and  adolescents)  with  solid  tumours  (N  =  476) 
comprised patients with CNS tumours (N=378) and solid tumours not otherwise specified (N=98). 
- In Dunkel et al, 1998, Mason et al, 1998, Broniscer et al, 2004, Dhall et al, 2008 and Grodman et 
al,  2009  CNS  tumour  patients  (N=106)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  etoposide  and 
carboplatin. 
In Mason et al, 1998, toxicity from induction chemotherapy was generally well tolerated, predictable 
and  primarily  haematologic.  For  children  who  completed  induction  therapy  (cisplatin,  vincristine, 
etoposide and cyclosphosphamide), the incidence of cisplatin-related high-frequency hearing loss was 
high  but  similar  to  results  of  other  trials  that  incorporated  this  drug  for  brain  tumours  in  children. 
37/42 children were stable or improved at the completion of induction chemotherapy and proceeded to 
consolidation  with  TT/CARB/VP16  before  ABMR,  upon  which  all  patients  became  severely 
neutropenic and thrombocytopenic. No patient died due to failure of engraftment. 3 patients (8%) died 
of acute complications of consolidation chemotherapy with ABMR. Apart from the three patients no 
children  suffered  significant  organ  toxicities.  Infections  were  common  and  the  mortality  rate  was 
similar to that reported in other studies of ABMR in children with CNS neoplasm.  
Broniscer  et  al,  2004  reported  significant  acute  toxicity,  similar  to  that  described  with  regimens  of 
myeloablative  chemotherapy.  All  patients  experienced  pancytopenia  and  oral  mucositis.  Infections 
Page 48 of 78 
 
 
were documented in nine patients (41%). Non-hematologic grade 3 and 4 toxicities were seen in six 
patients (35%). Treatment-related death rate was 11% (2/17 patients). 
In Dhall et al, 2008, the use of TT/CARB/VP16 before HPCT in young children with non-metastatic 
medulloblastoma  obviated  the  need  of  craniospinal  irradiation  in  52%  of  patients.  Regimen  related 
mortality was 14%. None of the 21 patients had any evidence of leukoencephalopathy on brain MRIs 
during or after treatment. The EFS was achieved with preservation of QoL and intellectual functioning 
albeit with a higher toxic mortality rate as compared to the regimens using upfront irradiation or intra-
ventricular methotrexate. 
In  Dunkel  et  al,  1998,  regimen  related  deaths  occurred  in  three  patients  (13%)  within  21  days  of 
ASCR. This was because of multiorgan system failure in two patients, and Aspergillus infection/veno-
occlusive disease in the third patient.  
Grodman et al, 2009, treated high risk patients with CNS germinoma and recurrent medulloblastoma. 
All patients had anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia and oral mucositis. 1 patient died of sepsis. 
Neurotoxicity in two of these heavily pretreated surviving patients is the most concerning long-term 
issue for this group. 
In  conclusion,  these  studies  show  that  TT/CARB/VP16  regimen  is  characterized  by  a  satisfactory 
safety  profile  considering  that  all  patients  enrolled  were  high  risk  patients  with  advanced  status  of 
various CNS tumours. 
- In Finlay et al, 1990, Grovas et al, 1999 and Papadakis et al, 2000, CNS tumours patients (N=57) 
received thiotepa in combination with etoposide and carmustine. 
In  Finlay  et  al,  1990,  thiotepa,  etoposide  and  carmustine  were  administered  to  5  patients  with  high 
grade  astrocytomas.  All  patients  developed  febrile  neutopenia,  oro-pharyngeal  mucositis  and 
erythema/desquamation/hyperpigmentation  secondary  to  high  dose  chemotheraphy.  One  patient  died 
of  salmonella  sepsis  within  3  days  of  receiving  a  platelet  transfusion  contaminated  with  salmonella 
from an asymtomatic donor. 
Grovas et al, 1999 reported that the most commonly occurring toxicity was pulmonary and the next 
common  severe  toxicity  was  neurotoxicity.  Carmustine  given  at  high  dose  has  been  associated  with 
pulmonary toxicity and leukoencephalophathy. TRM was 18% (2/11 patients).  
In  Papadakis  et  al,  2000,  nine  deaths  were  observed  (21%)  within  the  first  60  days  post 
transplantation.  All  patients  suffered  predictable  grade  IV  pancytopenia.  Pulmonary  toxicity  was 
significant  and  possibly  related  to  the  nitrosurea  treatment  (BCNU).  Fifteen  patients  experienced  22 
episodes of neurotoxicity; 17 events were reversible. TRM was 15%.  
-  In  Finlay  et  al,  1996,  Bouffet  et  al,  1997  and  Fagioli  et  al,  2004,  CNS  tumour  patients  (N=94) 
received thiotepa in combination with etoposide. 
In  Finlay  et  al,  1996,  none  of  the  five  long  term  survivors  display  any  sequelae  attributable  to  the 
therapy.  The  use  of  this  thiotepa  based  regimen  at  an  earlier  stage  in  the  course  of  the  disease  may 
reduce  the  susceptibility  to  veno-occlusive  disease  of  the  liver  and  the  multiorgan  system  failure 
syndrome. 
In Bouffet et al, 1997, two patients died of treatment related toxicities. 14 patients developed thiotepa-
related cutaneous toxicities with erytromatous rash and subsequent desquamation. Early neurotoxicity 
was observed in 11 patients. Increased peritumoral oedema was observed in 4 patients, and intracranial 
hemorrhage in one. All these symptoms were transient and resolved within two weeks. Since the onset 
of  interstitial  pneumonitis  in  one  patient  occurred  early  after  high-dose  chemotherapy,  this 
complication was more likely due to a previous treatment with carmustine. 
In Fagioli et al, 2004, pancytopenia was noted in all patients. Mucositis occurred in all patients except 
one. TRM was observed in 1 patient (3.6%), who died of Candida pneumonia. All 11 patients attended 
school after HDC. 
- In Massimino et al, 2005 and Massimino et al, 2006 patients with CNS tumours (N= 31) received 
thiotepa alone. In Massimino et al, 2005, all 21 children who were administered high-dose thiotepa 
experienced  grade  3–4  neutropenia  followed  by  fever.  Grade  2  stomatitis  was  present  in  77%  of 
patients; in 33% of cases, 24 to 48 h after the end of thiotepa infusion, a mild mood depression was 
evident and low oral doses of amitriptyline were administered with success. No TRM was observed. 
Massimino et al, 2006, enrolled 10 patients with sPNET tumours. All patients experienced grade 3–4 
hematologic toxicity and grade 3 mucositis after high-dose thiotepa. Grade 4 infections occurred in 3 
patients. No patients died due to the treatment. 
Page 49 of 78 
- In Grill et al, 1996, Dupuis-Girod et al, 1997, Valteau-Couanet et al, 2005 and Ridola et al, 2007, 
CNS  tumour  patients  (N=  90)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with  busulfan.  In  all  four  studies 
profound myelosuppression was reported. 
In Grill  et al, 1996, GI toxicity including mucositis  was  severe and frequent. Other organ toxicities 
were  mild  and  reversible.  Only  one  patient  died  of  treatment-related  toxicity  on  day  50  following 
ABMT. Toxicity, mainly digestive and cutaneous, was severe but manageable. Toxicity was similarly 
high but manageable in the study by Dupuis-Girod et al, 1997. 
Valteau-Couanet et al, 2005 reported that digestive toxicity and especially severe mucositis were the 
most  common  extra-hematological  complications.  Four  patients  died  as  a  result  of  toxicity.  The 
incidence  of  toxic  deaths  was  significantly  higher  in  previously  irradiated  patients  (P=0.01).  More 
specifically,  previous  craniospinal  irradiation  appeared  to  be  a  major  risk  factor  for  increased 
incidence and severity of toxicity. 
In  Ridola  et  al,  2007,  acute  toxicity  was  manageable  but  characterized  mainly  by  a  significant 
percentage  of  hepatic  VOD  in  33%  of  patients.  None  of  the  children  died  of  liver  toxicity.  This 
reported liver toxicity is caused mainly by busulfan but it could be modified by refinement of the use 
of  busulfan  or  by  the  prophylactic  use  of  defibrotide.  Regimen  related  mortality  was  5%  (2/39 
patients). 
Delayed  toxicities  from  this  treatment  strategy  (TT/BU)  involved  mainly  the  gonads  and  the  central 
nervous system. Major toxicity includes the risk of irreversible ovarian failure resulting from the use 
of high-dose busulfan. Neurotoxicity was observed as a delayed side effect characterized by transient 
radiologic anomalies in the irradiated fields in 23% of patients. In conclusion, the immediate toxicity 
of  TT/BU  is  manageable  and  may  be  improved  with  more  specific  treatments  of  VOD;  however, 
delayed  neurologic  and  gynecologic  side  effects  remain  main  concerns  and  warrant  treatment 
refinements. 
- In Lucidarme et al, 1998 and Lafay-Cousin et al, 2000, patients with solid tumours not otherwise 
specified (N=40) received thiotepa alone. Lucidarme et al, 1998 studied 22 paediatric patients with a 
median follow up of 61 months. All patients experienced an expected profound myelosuppression. All 
organ  toxicities  (GI,  liver,  skin,  CNS)  were  of  grade  I-II.  No  toxicity-related  deaths  occurred.  In 
Lafay-Cousin et al, 2000, the median follow up was 63 months. Myelotoxicity was the most common 
toxicity observed. 2/18 patients experienced acute renal toxicity (tubular pathology and a decrease in 
creatinine  clearance).  These  complications  were  transient  and  recovery  was  complete  and  rapid.  No 
adverse events were life-threatening and no toxicity related deaths occurred in the study. 
- In Chan et al, 1997, patients with solid tumours not otherwise specified (N= 21) received thiotepa 
(TT) in escalating doses in combination with cyclophosphamide and melphalan. 750 mg/m2 thiotepa 
and  180  mg/m2  melphalan  was  tolerated  by  most  of  the  children  with  advanced  solid  tumours.  The 
most  significant  toxicities  were  oral  mucositis,  skin  toxicity,  diarrhea  and  other  gastrointestinal  side 
effects. The treatment related mortality in this series was 14.3% (three of 21 patients).  
- In Kushner et al, 2001 patients with solid tumours not otherwise specified (N=21) received thiotepa 
in combination with carboplatin and topotecan. Toxicity was severe but manageable. No patients died 
of TRM and/or relapse regimen mortality.  
-  In  Hawkins  et  al,  2000  solid  tumours  patients  (N=16)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
busulfan and melphalan. Patients with an adequate PBSC collection to support a second myeloablative 
course  and  who  had  not  received  prior  dose-limiting  radiotherapy  were  eligible  to  receive  TMI 
following recovery from BU/MEL/TT. The median TMI dose was 12 Gy, with a range of 10.5–15 Gy. 
PBSC were infused 24 hr after the final dose of TMI. 
Following  BU/MEL/TT  one  patient  receiving  allogeneic  bone  marrow  as  the  HSC  source  died  of 
regimen-related  toxicity.  Grade  2  or  3  gastrointestinal  toxicity  was  observed  only  in  patients  who 
received pelvic irradiation prior to BU/MEL/TT. 
Allogeneic HPCT in paediatric patients with haematological malignancies 
The paediatric patients (infants and toddlers, children and adolescents) with haematological diseases 
(N=426)  comprised  patients  with  leukemia  (N=228),  thalassemia  (N=139),  refractory  cytopenia 
(N=19), genetic diseases (N=26), and sickle cell anaemia (N=14). 
-  In  Zecca  et  al,  1999  and  Locatelli  et  al,  2009  leukemia  patients  (N=97)  received  thiotepa  in 
combination with TBI and cyclophosphamide. 
Page 50 of 78 
 
 
Zecca  et  al,  1999  is  the  first  prospective  study  to  evaluate  the  tolerability  and  efficacy  of  a  new 
conditioning  regimen  based  on  the  combination  of  TBI,  TT,  and  CY  in  a  homogeneous  group  of 
children with ALL. The addition of thiotepa to the TBI-CY regimen was well tolerated, as suggested 
by the overall TRM of 15%. The RRM was 2.5% (1/40 patients). The only organ toxicity of grade III-
IV affected the lung and it was reported in one patient. 
Locatelli et al, 2009 confirmed the previous results. In 57 paediatric patients with ALL and a mean 
follow up of 121 months, the incidence of liver and pulmonary toxicity of grade III-IV was only 1 and 
3%, respectively. TRM was 15.7%. 
These safety results suggest that is possible to add thiotepa at TBI-CY to increase the engraftment and 
the GvL effect without increasing the toxicity of the regimen. 
-  In  Locatelli  et  al,  2009,  leukemia  patients  (N=40)  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide, antilymphocyte globulin and TBI. The most common adverse event was mucositis 
of  grade  I-II.  Toxicities  of  grade  III-IV  involved  heart,  bladder,  kidney,  liver  and  CNS  and  their 
incidence was 2.5%. The pulmonary toxicity was 5%. TRM was 20%. 
- In Locatelli et al, 2009 leukemia patients (N= 21) received thiotepa in combination with fludarabine, 
anti-thymocyte  globulin  and  TBI.    No  organ  toxicity  of  grade  III-IV  occurred.  The  TRM  was  5% 
(1/21). 
- In Locatelli et al, 2009, leukemia patients (N= 18) received thiotepa in combination with melphalan 
and TBI. Mucositis of grade I-II occurred in all patients. The organ toxicity concerned only the heart 
and  bladder  level  (5.5%  in  both  organs).  Only  one  patient  died  of  TRM.  This  safety  profile  is 
encouraging considering that thiotepa and TBI were combined with melphalan. 
-In Locatelli et al, 2009, leukemia patients (N= 19) received thiotepa in combination with fludarabine 
and  TBI.  With  a  follow  up  of  42  months,  adverse  events  of  grade  III-IV  concerned  the  liver  (5%; 
1/19), CNS (10,5%; 2/19) and GI tract (5%; 1/19). TRM was 16%. 
- In Locatelli et al, 2009, leukemia patients (N=15) received thiotepa in combination with melphalan, 
antilymphocyte  globulin  and  TBI.  Mucosal  toxicity  of  grade  I-II  was  reported  in  all  patients.  There 
was  only  1  patient  with  adverse  event  of  grade  III-IV  at  bladder  level.  No  toxicity  occurred  in  the 
other organs. Only 1 patient died for TRM. 
- In Locatelli et al, 2009 leukemia patients (N=10) received thiotepa in combination with fludarabine 
and treosulfan. Mucositis was the common adverse event. Bladder toxicity and gastrointestinal toxicity 
were  reported  in  1  and  2  patients,  respectively.  No  organ  class  toxicity  of  grade  III-IV  occurred  in 
these 10 patients with relapsed ALL who underwent allogeneic HPCT with TT/TREO/FLU. TRM was 
30%.  Considering  the  very  high  risk  patients  in  terms  of  disease  but  also  in  term  of  possible 
comorbidities this regimen including TT/TREO/FLU can be considered safe. 
-  In  Locatelli  et  al,  2009  leukemia  patients  (N=8)  patients  received  thiotepa  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide, anti-thymocyte globulin and TBI. All 8 patients experienced mucositis of grade I-
II. Only 1 patient reported hepatic toxicity of grade I-II. No other organs toxicity of was observed. 
- In La Nasa et al, 2002 thalassemia patients (N=28) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan 
and  cyclophosphamide.  This  was  the  first  large  series  of  consecutive  thalassemia  patients  receiving 
transplants from unrelated donors reported. 2 of the 4 cases of rejection occurred in the first 4 patients 
conditioned with the standard BU-CY regimen. Thiotepa at a dose of 10 mg/kg was shown to intensify 
both  the  myeloablative  and  immunosuppressive  effect  of  the  conditioning  regimen,  without  a 
significant increase of extramedullary toxicity. In this cohort, mortality rate was 19%. There were  4 
deaths that occurred among 11 adults (age > 16 years) and 2 among 21 pediatric patients. Only one 
death was observed among 15 class I and class II patients (7%), the other 5 occurring among 17 class 
III patients (29%). The protocol BU-TT-CY was well tolerated. The results show that thiotepa can be 
added to other alkylating drugs like busulfan without increase the general non haematological toxicity 
but also the characteristic toxicity of every single drugs. 
- In Bernardo et al, 2008 and Locatelli et al, 2009, thalassemia patients (N=30) received thiotepa in 
combination  with  treosulfan  and  fludarabine.  Bernardo  et  al,  2008,  reported  that  the  combination 
thiotepa/treosulfan/fludarabine is a good myeloablative regimen but with a very mild extramedullary 
toxicity for allogeneic HPCT. The regimen was well tolerated, with limited organ toxicity. In detail, 
no VOD, no lung, no heart and CNS toxicity was recorded. The only toxic effect frequently observed 
was  mucositis,  occurring  in  six  (30%)  of  the  20  enrolled  patients.  Only  one  patient  died  of 
transplantation-related  complications  (acute  GvHD).  The  cumulative  incidence  of  TRM  was  5%. 
Similar safety results were seen by Locatelli et al, 2009. Myeloabaltion with thiotepa, treosulfan and 
fludara-bine  might  be  a  suitable  elective  application  in  patients  or  in  those  with  poor  performance 
Page 51 of 78 
status and/or organ dysfunction, who have a high risk of life-threatening complications if busulfan is 
used. 
- In Locatelli et al, 2009 thalassemia patients (N=65) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan 
and fludarabine. The follow up was 133 months. TRM was only 3%. Only 1 patient experienced liver 
toxicity  of  grade  III-IV  while  in  the  other  organs  (heart,  kidney,  lung,  bladder,  CNS  and  GI)  no 
toxicity  occurred.  The  most  common  toxicity  of  grade  I-II  was  mucositis  (32%)  following  by  liver 
toxicity  (7,7%).  These  results  confirm  the  very  good  safety  profile  of  the  conditioning  regimen 
including thiotepa considering the long term follow up and the particular type of thalassemic patients. 
- In Locatelli et al, 2009, thalassemia patients (N=16) received thiotepa in combination with busulfan, 
fludarabine and ALG. Mucositis of grade I-II was the most common side effect. Only bladder toxicity 
was reported in 12.5% of patients. No toxicity grade III-IV occurred at organ levels.  
- In Strahm et al, 2007, refractory cytopenia patients (N=19) received thiotepa in combination with 
fludarabine  and  ATG.    HPCT  is  the  only  curative  treatment  for  refractoy  cytopenia  (RC).  
Myeloablative  preparative  regimen  is  associated  with  a  low  probability  of  relapse  but  considerable 
transplant-related mortality. The reduced intensity chemotherapy regimen of thiotepa nad fludarabine 
may be able to not only reduce the risk of transplant-related life-threatening complications but also the 
incidence of late effects. Infections were the most frequently observed complication. TRM was 16%. 
No deaths from regimen related toxicities were reported. In conclusion, this RIC regimen with thiotepa 
and  fludarabine  permits  to  obtain  the  same  results  using  a  myeloablative  regimen  but  with  a  good 
safety profile in comparison with a myeloablative regimen. 
- In Rosales et al, 1999, patients with genetic diseases (N=26) received thiotepa in combination with 
busulfan and cyclophosphamide. In this study, mucositis and gastrointestinal tract (GIT) toxicity were 
the  predominant  complications.  The  only  organ  toxicities  reported  were  at  hepatic  and  pulmonary 
level:  7.6%  (2/26)  and  3.8%  (1/26),  respectively.  The  relatively  low  incidence  of  both  VOD  and 
pulmonary toxicity in the present series of patients  may indicate that thiotepa does not play a major 
role in these complications. TRM was 15.5% and no deaths from RRM were reported. In conclusion, 
TTP-BU-CY achieved good results in terms of safety in T cell depleted BMT in genetic diseases. 
- In Locatelli et al, 2009, sickle cell anaemia patients (N=14) received thiotepa in combination with 
busulfan and fludarabine. With a follow up of 51 months all patients were alive and free of disease. 
Except moderate mucositis (14.3%) no other adverse event of grade I-II and III-IV has been reported 
in this group of patients. 
Overall, the most frequently adverse events reported in the different conditioning treatments including 
thiotepa  are:  infections,  cytopenia,  acute  GvHD  and  chronic  GvHD,  gastrointestinal  disorders, 
haemorragic cystitis and mucosal inflammation. 
The adverse reactions considered at least possibly related to conditioning treatment including thiotepa, 
reported in adult patients as more than an isolated case, are listed below by system organ class and by 
frequency. Within each frequency grouping, undesiderable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness.  Frequencies  are  defined  as:  very  common  (≥1/10),  common  (≥1/100  to  <  1/10), 
uncommon  (≥1/1,000  to  <1/100),  rare  (≥1/10,000  to  <1/1,000)  very  rare  (<1/10,000),  not  known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Table 9: Adverse drug reactions in adults 
System organ class 
Very common  
Common 
Uncommon 
Infections and infestations 
Infection susceptibility 
increased 
Sepsis 
Toxic shock 
syndrome 
Treatment related 
second malignancy 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and 
unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Leukopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Anaemia 
Pancytopenia 
Granulocytopenia 
Page 52 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Immune system disorders 
Endocrine disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders  
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Hepatobiliary disorders  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders  
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders  
Renal and urinary disorders  
Acute graft versus host 
disease 
Chronic graft versus 
host disease 
Anorexia 
Decreased appetite 
Hyperglycaemia 
Confusional state 
Mental status changes 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypopituitarism 
Anxiety 
Delirium 
Nervousness 
Hallucination 
Agitation 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Vision blurred  
Encephalopathy 
Convulsion  
Paraesthesia 
Conjunctivitis 
Hearing impaired 
Ototoxicity 
Tinnitus 
Arrhythmia 
Lymphoedema 
Hypertension 
Idiopathic pneumonia 
syndrome 
Epistaxis 
Nausea 
Stomatitis  
Oesophagitis  
Vomiting  
Diarrhoea  
Dyspepsia  
Abdominal pain 
Enteritis 
Colitis 
Venoocclusive liver 
disease 
Hepatomegaly  
Jaundice 
Rash  
Pruritus  
Alopecia  
Back pain  
Myalgia  
Arthralgia 
Cystitis haemorrhagic 
Intracranial 
aneurysm 
Extrapyramidal 
disorder 
Cognitive disorder 
Cerebral 
haemorrhage  
Cataract 
Tachycardia 
Cardiac failure 
Haemorrhage 
Embolism 
Pulmonary oedema 
Cough  
Pneumonitis 
Constipation 
Gastrointestinal 
perforation 
Ileus 
Cardiomyopathy 
Myocarditis 
Hypoxia 
Gastrointestinal 
ulcer 
Erythema 
Pigmentation 
disorder 
Erythrodermic 
psoriasis 
Dysuria 
Oliguria 
Renal failure 
Cystitis 
Haematuria 
Menopausal 
symptoms 
Infertility female 
Infertility male 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
Azoospermia 
Amenorrhoea 
Page 53 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigation 
Vaginal haemorrhage 
Pyrexia  
Asthenia 
Chills 
Generalised oedema 
Injection site 
inflammation 
Injection site pain 
Mucosal inflammation 
Weight increased 
Blood bilirubin 
increased 
Transaminases 
increased 
Blood amylase 
increased 
Multi-organ failure 
Pain 
Blood creatinine 
increased  
Blood urea 
increased 
Gamma-
glutamyltransferase 
increased 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase 
increased 
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased 
The adverse reactions considered at least possibly related to conditioning treatment including thiotepa, 
reported in paediatric patients as  more  than an isolated case, are listed below by system organ class 
and  by  frequency.  Within  each  frequency  grouping,  undesiderable  effects  are  presented  in  order  of 
decreasing  seriousness.  Frequencies  are  defined  as:  very  common  (≥1/10),  common  (≥1/100  to  < 
1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000) very rare (<1/10,000), not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Table 10: Adverse drug reactions in paediatric patients 
System organ class 
Very common  
Common 
Uncommon 
Infections and infestations 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and 
unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Endocrine disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Infection susceptibility 
increased 
Sepsis 
Thrombocytopenia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Anaemia 
Pancytopenia 
Granulocytopenia 
Acute graft versus host 
disease 
Chronic graft versus 
host disease 
Hypopituitarism 
Hypogonadism 
Hypothyroidism 
Anorexia 
Hyperglycaemia 
Mental status changes 
Nervous system disorders  
Headache 
Page 54 of 78 
Thrombocytopenic 
purpura 
Treatment related 
second 
malignancy 
Mental disorder 
due to a general 
medical condition 
Ataxia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
Encephalopathy 
Convulsion  
Cerebral haemorrhage 
Memory impairment 
Paresis 
Hearing impaired 
Cardiac arrest 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders  
Haemorrhage 
Pneumonitis 
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Hepatobiliary disorders  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders  
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders  
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigation 
Nausea 
Stomatitis  
Vomiting  
Diarrhoea  
Abdominal pain 
Venoocclusive liver 
disease 
Rash  
Erythema 
Desquamation 
Pigmentation disorder 
Growth retardation 
Bladder disorders 
Pyrexia  
Mucosal inflammation 
Pain 
Multi-organ failure 
Blood bilirubin 
increased 
Transaminases 
increased 
Blood creatinine 
increased  
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased 
Alanine 
aminotransferase 
increased 
Cardiovascular 
insufficiency 
Cardiac failure 
Hypertension 
Idiopathic 
pneumonia 
syndrome 
Pulmunary 
haemorrage 
Pulmonary 
oedema 
Epistaxis  
Hypoxia 
Respiratory arrest 
Enteritis 
Intestinal 
obstruction 
Liver failure 
Renal failure 
Cystitis 
haemorrhagic 
Blood urea 
increased 
Blood electrolytes 
abnormal 
Prothrombin time 
ratio increased 
  Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory evaluations were not reported in detail in the published studies and therefore any 
important findings regarding laboratory results were described in the analyses of adverse events. 
Page 55 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  Safety in special populations 
Studies  in  renally  impaired  patients  have  not  been  conducted.  As  thiotepa  and  its  metabolites  are 
poorly excreted in the urine, dose modification is not recommended in patients with mild or moderate 
renal insufficiency. However, caution is recommended. 
Thiotepa  has  not  been  studied  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment.  Since  thiotepa  is  mainly 
metabolized through the liver, caution needs to be observed when thiotepa is used in patients with pre-
existing  impairment  of  liver  function,  especially  in  those  with  severe  hepatic  impairment.  When 
treating such patients it is recommended that serum transaminase, alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin 
are monitored regularly following transplant, for early detection of hepatotoxicity. 
The administration of thiotepa has not been specifically investigated in elderly patients. However, in 
clinical studies, a proportion of patients over the age of 65 received the same cumulative dose as the 
other patients. No dose adjustment was deemed necessary. 
  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Specific interactions with thiotepa  
Live  virus  and  bacterial  vaccines  must  not  be  administered 
to  a  patient  receiving  an 
immunosuppressive  chemotherapeutic  agent  and  at  least  three  months  must  elapse  between 
discontinuation of therapy and vaccination.  
Thiotepa appears to be metabolised via CYP2B6 and CYP3A4. Co-administration with inhibitors of 
CYP2B6  (for  example  clopidogrel  and  ticlopidine)  or  CYP3A4  (for  example  azole  antifungals, 
macrolides like erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, and protease inhibitors) may increase the 
plasma concentrations of thiotepa and potentially decrease the concentrations of the active metabolite 
TEPA.  Co-administration  of  inducers  of  Cytochrome  P450  (such  as  rifampicin,  carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital) may increase the metabolism of thiotepa leading to increased plasma concentrations of 
the active metabolite. Therefore, during the concomitant use of thiotepa and these medicinal products, 
patients should be carefully monitored clinically. 
Thiotepa is a weak inhibitor for CYP2B6, and may thereby potentially increase plasma concentrations 
of  substances  metabolised  via  CYP2B6,  such  as  ifosfamide,  tamoxifen,  bupropion,  efavirenz  and 
cyclophosphamide.  CYP2B6  catalyzes  the  metabolic  conversion  of  cyclophosphamide  to  its  active 
form 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4-OHCP) and co-administration of thiotepa may therefore lead to 
decreased concentrations of the active 4-OHCP. Therefore, a clinical monitoring should be exercised 
during the concomitant use of thiotepa and these medicinal products. 
Contraindications of concomitant use: 
Yellow fever vaccine: risk of fatal generalized vaccine-induced disease. 
More  generally,  live  virus  and  bacterial  vaccines  must  not  be  administered  to  a  patient  receiving  an 
immunosuppressive  chemotherapeutic  agent  and  at  least  three  months  must  elapse  between 
discontinuation of therapy and vaccination. 
Concomitant use not recommended: 
Live  attenuated  vaccines  (except  yellow  fever):  risk  of  systemic,  possibly  fatal  disease.  This  risk  is 
increased in subjects who are already immunosuppressed by their underlying disease. 
An inactivated virus vaccine should be used instead, whenever possible (poliomyelitis). 
Phenytoin:  risk  of  exacerbation  of  convulsions  resulting  from  the  decrease  of  phenytoin  digestive 
absorption by cytotoxic medicinal product or risk of toxicity enhancement and loss of efficacy of the 
cytotoxic medicinal product due to increased hepatic metabolism by phenytoin. 
Concomitant use to take into consideration: 
Ciclosporine, tacrolimus: excessive immunosuppression with risk of lymphoproliferation. 
Alkylating chemotherapeutic agents, including thiotepa, inhibit plasma pseudocholinesterase by 35% 
to 70%. The action of succinyl-choline can be prolonged by 5 to 15 minutes. 
Thiotepa  must  not  be  concurrently  administered  with  cyclophosphamide  when  both  medicinal 
products  are  present  in  the  same  conditioning  treatment.  Tepadina  must  be  delivered  after  the 
completion of any cyclophosphamide infusion. 
Page 56 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  concomitant  use  of 
thiotepa  and  other  myelosuppressive  or  myelotoxic  agents  (i.e. 
cyclophosphamide,  melphalan,  busulfan,  fludarabine,  treosulfan)  may  potentiate  the  risk  of 
haematologic adverse reactions due to overlapping toxicity profiles of these medicinal products. 
Interaction common to all cytotoxics 
Due to the increase of thrombotic risk in case of malignancy, the use of anticoagulative treatment is 
frequent.  The  high  intra-individual  variability  of  the  coagulation  state  during  malignancy,  and  the 
potential interaction between oral anticoagulants and anticancer chemotherapy require, if it is decided 
to  treat  the  patient  with  oral  anticoagulants,  to  increase  the  frequency  of  the  INR  (International 
Normalised Ratio) monitoring. 
  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
No studies were submitted. 
  Post marketing experience 
No studies were submitted 
  Discussion on clinical safety 
Autologous HPCT in adult patients 
In  autologous  HPCT  the  safety  database  consisted  of  a  total  of  4817  patients  with  haematological 
diseases  (N=826)  and  with  solid  tumours  (N=3991).  These  patients  received  thiotepa  i.v.,  in 
combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs as conditioning treatment before autologous HPCT. 
Haematological diseases 
The safety profile of thiotepa has been evaluated in 826 patients. The analyzed population is a very 
high risk group considering the disease phase, comorbidity, previous treatments and prior limited dose 
of radiation.  
Regimen Related Mortality (RRM) ranging from 2.5% to 29% was reported in the analysed studies.  
Transplant Related Mortality (TRM) ranged from 0% to 21% at 1 year. OS ranged from 29% to 87% 
with a follow up of 22 to 63 months. 
The most important fatal events registered in the whole population evaluated were infections (1.5% to 
14.7%),  VOD  (≤5.7%),  idiopathic  pneumonia  syndrome  (≤6.8%),  cardiac  toxicity  (≤2.4%),  MOF 
(1.5%  to 4%),  respiratory  toxicity  (1.25%  to  1.5%)  and  hepatobiliary  toxicity  (≤1.5%).  Deaths  from 
second malignancies ranged from 1.5% to 5%. 
Solid tumours 
The safety profile of thiotepa has been evaluated on 3991 patients. Regimen Related Mortality (RRM) 
ranged from  0% to 2% and TRM ranged from of 0% to 7.4%. OS ranged from 30% to 87% with a 
follow up of 11.7 to 87 months.  
The  most  common  fatal  events  observed  in  the  population  treated  with  conditioning  regimens 
including thiotepa were as follows: pulmonary toxicity (0.2% to 3%), cardiac toxicity (0.4% to 0.6%), 
VOD (1.4% to 3%), MOF (≤0,4%), CNS toxicity(≤2%) and hepatic failure (≤0.5%).  
Only  one  study  reported  fatal  renal  failure  in  2/26  patients  (8%).  Deaths  from  second  malignancies 
ranged from 0.5% to 0.94%. 
Allogeneic HPCT in adult patients 
In allogeneic HPCT, the safety is determined mainly by the conditioning treatment, by the allogeneic 
cells from the donor, by GvHD prophylaxis and by prior transplant and chemotherapy. A total of 1771 
patients  with  haematological  diseases  received 
in  combinations  with  other 
chemotherapeutic drugs and TBI as conditioning treatment before allogeneic HPCT.  
The  results  are  comparable  with  the  analysis  of  EBMT  (European  Group  for  Blood  and  Marrow 
Transplantation) on 14403 patients and IBMT (International Bone and Marrow Transplant) registry on 
6691 patients regarding the toxicities after allogeneic HPCT.  
thiotepa 
i.v. 
Page 57 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deaths from the studies analysed versus deaths in the EBMT and IBMT registries are analysed in the 
following table 11: 
Table 11:  Causes of death in thiotepa studies vs EBMT and IBMTR registries in adult patients 
undergoing allogeneic HPCT 
Thiotepa   
EBMT   
IBMTR 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
aGvHD  
Infection/Sepsis  
MOF 
Second cancer   
0,5%-20% 
2%-20% 
1.2%-5.5% 
0.5% 
25% 
10% 
/ 
/ 
31% 
39% 
6% 
65 
In the EBMT registry, the incidence of bronchiolitis obliterans (BO) in 6257 patients at 2 years was 
reported at 1.7%. Patients treated with conditioning regimens including thiotepa have not reported BO. 
In  the  EBMT  registry,  among  the  1652  enrolled  patients,  631  underwent  allogeneic  transplantation. 
The  incidence  of  VOD  in  this  group  was  8.7%.  In  the  thiotepa  group  the  incidence  of  VOD  ranged 
from 2% to 12% and the incidence of second malignancies ranged from 0.5% to 4.8%. The incidence 
of  acute  GvHD  grade  III-IV  in  all  conditioning  regimens  evaluated  ranged  from  4%  to  24%.  Fatal 
heart failure occurred at a rate of 3.7%, TRM ranged from 2% to 53% and OS ranged from 40% to 
81% with a follow up ranging from 7.2 to 120 months. 
Autologous HPCT in paediatric patients with solid tumours 
The safety profile of thiotepa has been evaluated in 476 patients. The analyzed population is a very 
high  risk  group  considering  the  disease  phase,  comorbidity,  previous  treatment  including  many 
chemotherapy cycles and eventually post autologous transplant radiotherapy. 
OS ranged from 17% to 84% with a follow up from 12.3 to 99.6  months. TRM ranged from 0% to 
18% and RRM from 0% to 26.7%. 
The  most  important  fatal  events  registered  in  the  evaluated  population  treated  with  conditioning 
regimens  including  thiotepa  are  represented  by  MOF  (3%  to  21.4%)  and  respiratory  toxicity 
(maximum incidence of 9%). 
Severe/fatal events have been observed as VOD (4.4% to 14.9%) and sepsis (2.6% to 15.4%). Cardiac 
failure and renal failure, not associated to death, were respectively registered with a maximum of 4.5% 
and of 6.3% respectively. Secondary malignancies have been reported with a maximum frequency of 
9%. The good safety long term profile in children population is satisfactory. 
These data with high rate of OS show the positive safety profile of the conditioning regimen including 
thiotepa  considering  the  advanced,  relapsed  or  recurrence  diseases  treated  with  autologous 
transplantation in the most part of patients with poor prognosis. 
The  results  confirm  that  conditioning  regimens  including  thiotepa  in  combination  with  other 
chemotherapeutic  medicinal  products  are  safe  and  well  tolerated  in  paediatric  patients  with  solid 
tumours who underwent autologous HPCT. 
Allogeneic HPCT in paediatric patients with haematological malignancies 
The safety profile of thiotepa has been evaluated in 426 patients. The results show that thiotepa can be 
considered as safe and they are comparable with those of the EBMT (European Group for Blood and 
Marrow Transplantation) report published by Uderzo in 2007. 
Although the EBMT report focused on lung and heart impairment, it included other important safety 
information.  OS  at  5  years  was  77%  and  transplant  related  mortality  (TRM)  was  due  to  multiorgan 
failure (MOF, 6.2%), Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS, 2%), infections (2%) and non viral 
acute  pneumonia  (0.6%).  No  patients  suffered  or  died  from  bronchiolitis  obliterans.    The  lung  and 
heart impairment was 35% and 26%, respectively.  
All conditioning regimens evaluated by the Applicant showed an incidence of acute GvHD grade III-
IV ranging from 0% to 20%. Chronic GvHD ranged from 0% to 26.6% (limited) or between 0% and 
19%  (extensive).  Considering  that  the  acute  GvHD  represents  an  important  cause  of  death,  the 
conditioning  regimens  with  thiotepa  have  demonstrated  a  good  profile  of  safety.  Considering  that 
chronic GvHD have a negative impact on the quality of life of patients, the results obtained confirm 
Page 58 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that conditioning regimens including thiotepa are safe. TRM ranged from 0% to 30%. 
The  data  reported  in  the  conditioning  treatment  regimens  containing  thiotepa  are  comparable  with 
those  of  the  EBMT  registry.  The  maximum  incidence  of  infections  and  MOF  deaths  was  3.8%  and 
2.5%,  respectively.  Fatal  VOD  and  fatal  liver  failure  was  reported  with  maximum  frequency  of  5% 
and 3%, respectively. The lung and heart severe toxicity ranged from 1.5% to 10% and from 2.5% to 
5.5%, respectively. The incidence of other severe organ toxicities was very low: CNS toxicity ranged 
from  2.5  to  10.5%,  gastrointestinal  occurred  with  maximum  frequency  of  5.2%,  hepatobiliary 
disorders ranged from 1% to 7.6% and renal toxicity occurred with maximum frequency of 2.5%. 
The  consequence  of  treatment  with  thiotepa  at  the  recommended  dose  and  schedule  is  profound 
myelosuppression,  occurring  in  all  patients.  Severe  granulocytopenia,  thrombocytopenia,  anemia  or 
any  combination  thereof  may  develop.  Frequent  complete  blood  counts,  including  differential  white 
blood cell counts, and platelet counts need to be performed during the treatment and until recovery is 
achieved. Platelet and red blood cell support, as well as the use of growth factors such as Granulocyte-
colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), should be employed as medically indicated. Daily white blood cell 
counts  and  platelet  counts  are  recommended  during  therapy  with  thiotepa  and  after  transplant  for  at 
least 30 days. 
Prophylactic  or  empiric  use  of  anti-infectives  (bacterial,  fungal,  viral)  should  be  considered  for  the 
prevention and management of infections during the neutropenic period. 
Thiotepa  has  not  been  studied  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment.  Since  thiotepa  is  mainly 
metabolized through the liver, caution needs to be observed when thiotepa is used in patients with pre-
existing  impairment  of  liver  function,  especially  in  those  with  severe  hepatic  impairment.  When 
treating such patients it is recommended that serum transaminase, alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin 
are monitored regularly following transplant, for early detection of hepatotoxicity. 
Patients  who  have  received  prior  radiation  therapy,  greater  than  or  equal  to  three  cycles  of 
chemotherapy, or prior progenitor cell transplant may be at an increased risk of hepatic veno-occlusive 
disease (see section 4.8 of the SPC). 
Caution  must  be  used  in  patients  with  history  of  cardiac  diseases,  and  cardiac  function  must  be 
monitored regularly in patients receiving thiotepa.  
Caution  must  be  used  in  patients  with  history  of  renal  diseases  and  periodic  monitoring  of  renal 
function should be considered during therapy with thiotepa.  
Thiotepa  might  induce  pulmonary  toxicity  that  may  be  additive  to  the  effects  produced  by  other 
cytotoxic agents (busulfan, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide) (see section 4.8 of the SPC). 
Previous  brain  irradiation  or  craniospinal  irradiation  may  contribute  to  severe  toxic  reactions  (e.g. 
encephalopathy). 
The increased risk of a secondary malignancy with thiotepa, a known carcinogen in humans, must be 
explained to the patient. 
Safety information regarding drug-drug interactions has been reflected in sections 4.4 and 4.5 of the 
SPC. 
2.6 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety Concern  
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Page 59 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risks 
Myelosuppression 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Infection 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect all reported adverse 
reactions of , but not 
limited to, neutropenia, 
anaemia, leukopenia, 
thrombocytopenia 
  Attempt to determine prior 
exposure to myelotoxic 
agents 
  Follow the frequency and 
severity of reported events 
to monitor changes 
  Analysis  of  all  ADRs 
required 
the 
within 
PSURs  
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect all adverse events 
of hypersensitivity 
reactions including signs 
and symptoms consistent 
with reactions 
Investigate to determine if 
there was prior cytotoxic 
agent exposure 
 
  Analysis  of  all  ADRs 
required 
the 
within 
PSURs  
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect all adverse events 
of infection 
  Attempt to determine the 
etiology of all serious 
infections 
  Follow the frequency of 
reported infections to 
monitor for changes 
  Analysis  of  all  ADRs 
required 
the 
within 
Page 60 of 78 
As indicated in 4.4 of the proposed 
SPC for Tepadina: “The consequence 
of treatment with thiotepa at the 
recommended dose and schedule is 
profound myelosuppression, occurring 
in all patients. Severe granulocyto-
penia, thrombocytopenia, anemia or 
any combination thereof may develop. 
Frequent complete blood counts, 
including differential white blood cell 
counts, and platelet counts need to be 
performed during the treatment and 
until recovery is achieved. Platelet and 
red blood cell support, as well as the 
use of growth factors such as 
Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor 
(G-CSF), should be employed as 
medically indicated. Daily white blood 
cell counts and platelet counts are daily 
recommended during therapy with 
thiotepa and after transplant for at least 
30 days”. 
All adverse reactions related to 
myelosuppression (neutropenia, 
anaemia, thrombocytopenia, 
leukopenia, febrile neutropenia) are 
listed in section 4.8 of the proposed 
SPC. 
Contraindication outlined in SPC 
section 4.3. All adverse reactions 
related to hypersensitivity reactions 
(included also in other SOCs, i.e Skin 
and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders) 
are listed in section 4.8 of the proposed 
SPC. 
Warning outlined in SPC section 4.4: 
“Prophylactic or empiric use of anti-
infectives (bacterial, fungal, viral) 
should be considered for the 
prevention and management of 
infections during the neutropenic 
period”. 
All adverse reactions related to 
Infections are listed in section 4.8 of 
the proposed SPC. 
 
Second primary 
malignancy treatment 
related 
Graft Versus Host Disease 
Mucositis 
Confusion 
Veno-occlusive disease 
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect, where possible, 
information on the 
incidence of second 
cancers and overall 
survival 
  Monitor adverse events 
associated with second 
cancers 
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect, where possible, 
information on the 
incidence of aGVHD and 
cGVHD 
  Monitor adverse events 
associated with GVHD 
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect all adverse events 
of mucositis 
  Analysis of all ADRs 
within the required 
PSURs  
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect all adverse events 
of confusion and other 
psychiatric events 
  Follow the frequency of 
reported cases to monitor 
for changes 
  Analysis of all ADRs 
within the required 
PSURs  
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect all adverse events 
of veno-occlusive disease 
including signs and 
symptoms consistent with 
reactions 
  Monitor adverse events 
associated with veno-
occlusive disease 
Investigate to determine 
baseline hepatic function 
 
Page 61 of 78 
Healthcare professionals should advice 
patients of the potential risk of a 
second malignancy as outlined in 
section 4.4 of the SPC. Treatment 
related second malignancy is also 
listed in the section 4.8 of the proposed 
SPC. 
Characteristics on GvHD (graft versus 
host disease) and results of 
conditioning treatments are reported in 
section 5.1 (Pharmacodynamic 
properties) of the proposed SPC. 
Although not directly related to 
conditioning regimen, Acute Graft 
Versus Host Disease and Chronic Graft 
Versus Host Disease are listed in 
section 4.8 of the SPC as potential 
risks of the allogenic HPCT. 
Mucosal inflammation is listed in 
section 4.8 of the proposed SPC. 
Confusional state and mental status 
changes are listed in section 4.8 of the 
proposed SPC. 
Warning outlined in SPC section 4.4: 
“Patients who have received prior 
radiation therapy, greater than or equal 
to three cycles of chemotherapy, or 
prior progenitor cell transplant may be 
at an increased risk of hepatic veno-
occlusive disease.” 
Veno-occlusive disease is listed in 
section 4.8 of the proposed SPC. 
Pulmonary toxicity 
  Analysis of all ADRs 
within the required 
PSURs  
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs  
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect all adverse events 
of pulmonary toxicity 
including signs and 
symptoms consistent with 
reactions 
  Monitor adverse events 
 
associated with pulmonary 
toxicity 
Investigate to determine 
baseline lung function 
  Analysis of all ADRs 
within the required 
PSURs  
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs 
Advice that thiotepa might induce 
pulmonary toxicity additive to the 
effects produced by other cytotoxic 
agents (busulfan, fludarabine and 
cyclopho-sphamide) in section 4.4 of 
the SPC.  
Pulmonary toxicity (i.e, pneumo-nitis, 
idiopathic pneumonia syndrome) are 
listed in section 4.8 of the proposed 
SPC. 
Nervous system disorders 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Collect all adverse events 
Nervous system disorders are listed in 
section 4.8 of the proposed SPC. 
of nervous system 
disorders 
  Follow the frequency of 
reported cases to monitor 
for changes 
  Analysis of all ADRs 
within the required 
PSURs  
  Provide specific update in 
the PSURs 
Important missing information 
Pregnant or lactating 
women 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Close 
monitoring 
eventual safety reports 
  Provide  specific  update  in 
of 
the PSURs 
Page 62 of 78 
Pregnancy and lactation are 
controindications to treatment (see 
section 4.3 of the proposed SPC). 
In section 4.6 of the proposed SPC we 
reported: “Pregnancy: There are no 
data on the use of thiotepa during 
pregnancy. In pre-clinical studies 
thiotepa, as most alkylating agents, 
has been shown to cause embryofoetal 
lethality and teratogenicity. Therefore, 
thiotepa is contraindicated during 
pregnancy. Women of childbearing 
potential have to use effective 
contraception during treatment and a 
pregnancy test should be performed 
before treatment is started. 
Lactation: it is not known whether 
thiotepa is excreted in human milk. 
Due to its pharmacological properties 
and its potential toxicity for nursing 
infant, breast-feeding is 
 
Elderly patients 
Patients with clinically 
significant renal disease 
Patients with clinically 
significant hepatic disease 
contraindicated during treatment with 
thiotepa.” 
In section 4.2 of the proposed SPC 
under “Special populations” we 
reported: “The administration of 
thiotepa has not been specifically 
investigated in elderly patients. 
However, in clinical studies, a 
proportion of patients over the age of 
65 received the same cumulative dose 
as the other patients. No dose 
adjustment was deemed necessary”. 
In section 4.2 of the proposed SPC 
under “Special populations” we 
reported: “Studies in renally impaired 
patients have not been conducted. As 
thiotepa and its metabolites are poorly 
excreted in the urine, dose 
modification is not recommended in 
patients with mild or moderate renal 
insufficiency. However, caution is 
recommended” 
In section 4.4 of the proposed SPC we 
reported: “Caution must be used in 
patients with history of renal diseases 
and periodic monitoring of renal 
function should be considered during 
therapy with thiotepa”.  
In section 5.2 of the proposed SPC we 
reported: “Patients with renal 
dysfunction: The effects of renal 
dysfunction on thiotepa elimination 
have not been assessed”.   
In section 4.2 of the proposed SPC 
under “Special populations” we 
reported: “Thiotepa has not been 
studied in patients with hepatic 
impairment. Since thiotepa is mainly 
metabolized through the liver, caution 
need to be exercised when thiotepa is 
used in patients with pre-existing 
impairment of liver function, 
especially in those with severe hepatic 
impairment. Dose modification is not 
recommended for transient alterations 
of hepatic parameters”. 
In section 4.4 of the proposed SPC we 
reported: “Thiotepa has not been 
studied in patients with hepatic 
impairment. Since thiotepa is mainly 
metabolized through the liver, caution 
need to be observed when thiotepa is 
used in patients with pre-existing 
impairment of liver function, 
especially in those with severe hepatic 
impairment. When treating such 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Close 
monitoring 
eventual safety reports 
  Provide  specific  update  in 
of 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Close 
monitoring 
eventual safety reports 
  Provide  specific  update  in 
of 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Close 
monitoring 
eventual safety reports 
  Provide  specific  update  in 
of 
the PSURs 
Page 63 of 78 
patients it’s recommended that serum 
transaminase, alkaline phosphatase 
and bilirubin are monitored regularly 
following transplant for early 
detection of hepatotoxicity”.   
In section 5.2 of the proposed SPC we 
reported: “Patients with hepatic 
dysfunction: The effects of hepatic 
dysfunction on thiotepa metabolism 
and elimination have not been 
assessed”.  
In section 4.4 of the proposed SPC we 
reported: “Caution must be used in 
patients with history of cardiac 
diseases and cardiac function must be 
monitored regularly in patients 
receiving thiotepa”.  
In section 4.4 of the proposed SPC we 
reported: “Thiotepa might induce 
pulmonary toxicity that may be 
additive to the effects produced by 
other cytotoxic agents (busulfan, 
fludarabine and cyclophosphamide)”. 
Warning in the SmPC section 4.4: 
"Previous brain irradiation or 
craniospinal irradiation may 
contribute to severe toxic reactions." 
None (no special risk) 
Patients with impaired 
cardiac function 
Patients with impaired 
pulmonary function 
Patients with previous 
brain or craniospinal 
irradiation 
Data on ethnicity/race 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Close 
monitoring 
eventual safety reports 
  Provide  specific  update  in 
of 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Close 
monitoring 
eventual safety reports 
  Provide  specific  update  in 
of 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Close 
monitoring 
eventual safety reports 
  Provide  specific  update  in 
of 
the PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance: 
  Close 
monitoring 
eventual safety reports 
  Provide  specific  update  in 
of 
the PSURs 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.7 Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. At the time of the opinion, there were some outstanding issues which remain as 
follow up measures and do not have any impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
No conventional acute and repeat-dose toxicity studies were performed. 
Thiotepa was shown to be genotoxic in vitro and in vivo tests, and carcinogenic in mice and rats. 
Thiotepa was shown to impair fertility and interfere with spermatogenesis in male mice, and to impair 
ovarian  function  in  female  mice.  It  was  teratogenic  in  mice  and  in  rats,  and  foeto-lethal  in  rabbits. 
These effects were seen at doses lower than those used in humans. 
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  thiotepa  was  reviewed  in  106  published  studies  comprising  6272  adult  patients  and 
902 paediatric patients.  
-  In  adult  patients  with  haematological  malignancies  undergoing  autologous  HPCT  the  following 
results were reported: 
Page 64 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
Engraftment:  conditioning treatments including thiotepa have proved to be myeloablative. 
Disease  Free  Survival  (DFS):  43%  has  been  reported  in  the  evaluated  conditioning  treatments  as 
positive  estimated  value  at  five  years,  confirming  that  conditioning  treatment  containing  thiotepa 
following  autologous  HPCT  are  valid  and  effective  therapeutic  strategies  for  treating  patients  with 
haematological diseases. 
Relapse: In all the conditioning treatments containing thiotepa, the relapse rates at more than 1 year 
have been reported as being lower than 60%, which was considered by the physicians as the reference 
to prove efficacy. In some of the conditioning treatments evaluated, this relapse rate lower than 60% 
has been reported also at 5 years. 
Overall Survival (OS): OS ranged from 29% to 87% with a follow up ranged from 22 up to 63 months. 
- In adult patients with solid tumours undergoing autologous HPCT the following efficacy results were 
reported: 
Engraftment:  conditioning treatments including thiotepa have proved to be myeloablative. 
Disease Free Survival (DFS): has been reported in the evaluated conditioning treatments as positive 
estimated  value  at  more  than  1  year,  confirming  that  conditioning  treatment  containing  thiotepa 
following autologous HPCT are valid and effective choices for treating patients with solid tumours. 
Relapse: In all the conditioning treatments containing thiotepa, the relapse rates at more than 1 year 
have been reported as being lower than 60%, which was considered by the physicians as the reference 
to prove efficacy. In some of the conditioning treatments evaluated, relapse rates of 35% and of 45% 
have been reported at 5 years and 6 years respectively. 
Overall Survival: OS ranged from 30% to 87% with a follow up ranged from 11.7 up to 87 months. 
-  In  adult  patients  undergoing  allogeneic  HPCT  for  haematological  malignancies  the  following 
efficacy results were reported: 
Engraftment:  The  engraftment  has  been  positively  achieved  (92%-100%)  in  all  the  conditioning 
treatments evaluated and were considered to occur at the expected time. Therefore it can be concluded 
that conditioning treatments including thiotepa are myeloablative. 
Disease Free Survival (DFS): has been reported in the evaluated conditioning treatments as positive 
(estimated value: more than 1 year up to 5 years), confirming that conditioning treatments containing 
thiotepa  following  allogeneic  HPCT  are  valid  and  effective  choices  for  treating  patients  with 
haematological diseases.  
Relapse: In all the conditioning treatments containing thiotepa, the relapse rates at more than 1 year 
have been reported as being lower than 40% (which was considered by the physicians as the reference 
to  prove  efficacy).  In  some  of  the  conditioning  treatments  evaluated,  relapse  rates  lower  than  40% 
have been reported also at 5 years and 10 years. 
Overall Survival: OS ranged from 31% to 81% with a follow up ranged from 7.3 up to 120 months.  
- In paediatric patients undergoing autologous HPCT for solid tumours the following efficacy results 
were reported: 
Engraftment:    it  has  been  achieved  with  all  evaluated  conditioning  regimens  including  thiotepa. 
Disease Free Survival (DFS): it has been reported in the evaluated conditioning treatments as positive 
estimated value at more than 1 year. 
From 36 to 57 months DFS range from 46% to 70%. These results are very satisfactory considering 
that  all  patients  are  treated  for  high  risk  solid  tumours.  DFS  confirms  that  conditioning  treatments 
containing  thiotepa  following  autologous  HPCT  are  valid  and  effective  therapeutic  strategies  for 
treating paediatric patients with solid tumours.  
Relapse: In all the evaluated conditioning regimens containing thiotepa, the relapse rate from 12 to 57 
months range from 33% to 57%. Considering that all patients suffer of recurrence or poor prognosis 
solid tumours, this range proves the efficacy of conditioning regimens based on thiotepa.  
Overall  Survival  (OS):  OS  ranged  from  17%  to  84%  with  a  follow  up  ranged  from  12.3  up  to  99.6 
months.  
-  In  paediatric  patients  undergoing  allogeneic  HPCT  for  haematological  malignancies  the  following 
efficacy results were reported: 
 Engraftment:  it has been achieved with all evaluated conditioning regimens including thiotepa with a 
range of 96% - 100%. The haematological recovery is in the expected time. 
Disease Free Survival (DFS): it has been reported in the evaluated conditioning treatments as positive 
range 40% - 75% at more than 1 year. DFS confirms that conditioning treatment containing thiotepa 
following allogeneic HPCT are valid and effective therapeutic strategies for treating paediatric patients 
with haematological diseases.  
Page 65 of 78 
Relapse:  In  all  the  evaluated  conditioning  regimens  containing  thiotepa,  the  relapse  rate  is  very 
satisfactory with a range of 15% - 44%. These data prove the efficacy of conditioning regimens based 
on thiotepa in all haematological diseases. 
Overall  Survival  (OS):  OS  ranged  from  50%  to  100%  with  a  follow  up  ranged  from  9.4  up  to  121 
months.  
Safety 
The safety of thiotepa was examined through a review of adverse events extracted from published data 
of  109  clinical  trials.  In  these  studies,  a  total  of  6588  adult  patients  and  902  paediatric  patients 
received thiotepa for conditioning treatment prior to haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation.  
Serious  toxicities  involving  the  haematologic,  hepatic  and  respiratory  systems  were  considered  as 
expected  consequences  of  the  conditioning  regimen  and  transplant  process.  These  include  infections 
and Graft-versus host disease (GvHD) which, although not directly related, were the major causes of 
morbidity and mortality, especially in allogeneic HPCT. 
The most frequently adverse events reported in the different conditioning treatments including thiotepa 
are: infections, cytopenia, acute and chronic GvHD, gastrointestinal disorders, haemorrhagic cystitis, 
mucosal inflammation. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in the reviewed literature references have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
  User consultation 
The CHMP considered that the User testing was acceptable. The methodology was in accordance with 
EU requirements. The report was clear and complete and it demonstrated that the main objectives of 
the  test  were  achieved.  The  results  achieved  the  success  criteria  and  the  mock-up  was  considered 
satisfactory. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
High  dose  Thiotepa  has  been  used  in  combination  with  various  regimens  for  conditioning treatment 
prior to haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation in European hospitals for over 10 years. Many 
experts consider Thiotepa as a useful drug in this clinical context.  
The  applicant  provided  satisfactory  data  supporting  the  use  of  thiotepa  in  conditioning  treatment  in 
combination with other drugs. No satisfactory data were provided to support the use of thiotepa alone 
in conditioning treatment 
Thiotepa  has  been  in  clinical  use  for  several  decades,  in  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic 
drugs  as  conditioning  treatment  prior  to  conventional  HPCT  in  haematological  diseases  and  solid 
tumours. Adverse events reported in the bibliographic references have been collected according to the 
therapeutic  indication  in  order  to  quantify  toxicity  due  to  the  conditioning  treatment  used  in 
autologous and allogenic HSCT, and not strictly related to thiotepa. The frequency of each important 
identified risk has been presented by the type of conditioning treatment and by indication. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product and that no 
additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product information.  
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The CHMP is of the opinion that Tepadina is not similar to Busilvex within the meaning of Article 3 
of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200 (See appendix 1). 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Tepadina  ‘in  combination  with  other  chemotherapy 
medicinal products 
Page 66 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  with  or  without  total  body  irradiation  (TBI),  as  conditioning  treatment  prior  to  allogeneic  or 
autologous haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in haematological diseases in adult 
and paediatric patients, 
2)  as  conditioning  treatment  when  autologous  HPCT  is  appropriate  in  solid  tumours  in  adult  and 
paediatric patients’ 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
In addition, the CHMP, with reference to Article 8 of Regulation EC No 141/2000, considers Tepadina 
not to be similar (as defined in Article 3 of Commission Regulation EC No. 847/2000) to Busilvex for 
the same therapeutic indication. 
Page 67 of 78 
 
 
 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Abdul-Hai  et  al.  (2007)  The  effect  of  high-dose  thiotepa,  alone  or  in  combination  with  other 
chemotherapeutic  agents,  on  a  murine  B-cell  leukemia  model  simulating  autologous  stem  cell 
transplantation. Bone Marrow Transplant; 40 (9): 891-6. 
Abrey  et  al.  (2006)  High-dose  chemotherapy  with  stem  cell  rescue  as  initial  therapy  for  anaplastic 
oligodendroglioma: Long-term follow-up. Neuro-Oncol; 8: 183-186. 
Ackland  S.P.  et  al.  (1988)  Human  plasma  pharmacokinetics  of  thiotepa  following  administration  of 
high-dose thiotepa and cyclophosphamide. J Clin Oncol; 6: 1192-96. 
Adams  C.E.  et  al.  (1961)  The  action  of  various  agents  upon  the  rabbit  embryo.  J  Embryol  Exp 
Morphol; 9: 468-91. 
Alessandrino  E.P.  et  al.  (2001)  Thiotepa  and  fludarabine  (TT-FLUDA)  as  conditioning  regimen  in 
poor candidates for conventional allogeneic hemopoietic stem cell transplant. Ann Hematol; 80: 521-
24. 
Alessandrino E.P. et al. (2004) Reduced-intensity conditioning regimen with thiotepa and fludarabine 
followed by allogeneic blood stem cell transplantation in haematological malignancies. Bone Marrow 
Transplantation; 34: 1039-45. 
Anagnostopoulos et al. (2004) Comparison of High-Dose Melphalan with a More Intensive Regimen 
of  Thiotepa,  Busulfan,  and  Cyclophosphamide  for  Patients  with  Multiple  Myeloma.  Cancer;  100: 
2607-12. 
Ando  et  al,  Cardiac  conduction  abnormalities  in  patients  with  breast  cancer  undergoing  high-dose 
chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation. Bone Marrow Transplantation (2000) 25, 185–189 
Aversa  F.  et  al.  (1994)  Successful  Engraftment  of  T-Cell-Depleted  Haploidentical  “Three-Loci’’ 
Incompatible  Transplants  in  Leukemia  Patients  by  Addition  of  Recombinant  Human  Granulocyte 
Colony-Stimulating  Factor-Mobilized  Peripheral  Blood  Progenitor  Cells  to  Bone  Marrow  Inoculum. 
Blood; 84: 3948-55. 
Aversa  F.  et  al.  (1998)  Treatment  of  high-risk  acute  l.eukemia  with  T-cell-depleted  stem  cells  from 
related donors with one fully mismatched HLA haplotype. N Engl J Med.; 339 (17): 1186-93. 
Aversa F. et  al. (1999) Improved Outcome With T-Cell–Depleted  Bone Marrow Transplantation for 
Acute Leukemia. Journal of Clinical Oncology; 17 (5): 1545. 
Aversa F. et al. (2001) Haploidentical stem cell transplantation in leukemia. Blood Rev; 15: 111-19. 
Aversa F. et al. (2002) Haploidentical Stem Cell Transplantation for Acute Leukemia. Int J Hematol.; 
76 (Suppl 1):165-68. 
Aversa  F.  et  al.  (2005)  Full  Haplotype-Mismatched  Hematopoietic  Stem-Cell  Transplantation:  A 
Phase  I1  Study  in  Patients  With  Acute  Leukemia  at  High  Risk  of  Relapse.  J  Clin  Oncol.;  23(15): 
3447-54. 
Bacigalupo  et  al.  (1996)  Thiotepa  Cyclophosphamide  Followed  by  Granulocyte  Colony-Stimulating 
Factor Mobilized Allogeneic Peripheral Blood Cells in Adults With Advanced Leukemia. Blood; 88: 
353-57. 
Page 68 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bacigalupo  A  et  al.  (2007a)  Thiotepa  based  conditioning  regimen  in  374  patients  undergoing 
allogeneic stem cell transplants from related or unrelated donors. Bone Marrow Transplantation; 39: 
S1-S343. 
Bacigalupo et al. (2007b) Thiotepa-based reduced intensity conditioning regimen: a 10 year follow up. 
Bone Marrow Transplantation; 40(11): 1091-3. Epub 2007 Oct 1. 
Bacigalupo  et  al.  (2007c)  Allogeneic  hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  (HPCT)  after 
conditioning with i.v. busulfan or i.v. thiotepa containing regimens. Bone Marrow Transplantation; 39 
Suppl. 1: P595. 
Bacigalupo et al. (2009) 10-year survey of 154 adult patients that underwent hematopoietic progenitor 
cell  transplantation  (HPCT)  in  the  Bone  Marrow  Transplantation  Unit  of  San  Martino  Hospital, 
Genova, Italy.  
Bethge  et  al.  (2006)  Haploidentical  allogeneic  hematopoietic  cell  transplantation  in  adults  with 
reduced-intensity  conditioning  and  CD3/CD19  depletion:  Fast  engraftment  and  low  toxicity. 
Experimental Hematology; 34: 1746–52. 
Bernardo et al. (2008) Treosulfan-based conditioning regimen for allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation in patients with thalassaemia major. Br J Haematol; 143 (4): 548-51. 
Bierman  PJ.  et  al.  (2003)  Syngenic  hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  for  Non  Hodgkin’s 
lymphoma:  a  comparison  with  allogeneic  and  autologous  transplantation.  The  Lymphoma  Working 
Coommittee  of  The  International  Bone  Marrow  Transplant  Registry  and  the  European  Group  for 
Blood and Marrow Transplantation; JCO, Vol 21, No 20, 2003 
Bochkov N.P. (1981) Comperative Mutagenicity of TEPA, thio-TEPA and METEPA. Environm Sci 
Res; 24: 917-42. 
Bouffet  E.  et  al.  (1997)  Etoposide  and  thiotepa  followed  by  ABMT  (autologous  bone  marrow 
transplantation) in children and young adults with high-grade gliomas. Eur J Cancer; 33: 91-95. 
Breau A.P. et al. (1984) Thiono compounds. 4. In vitro mutagenic and antineoplastic activity of TEPA 
and thio TEPA. Cell Biol Toxicol; 1: 21-30. 
Bregni  M.  et  al.  (2002)  Nonmyeloablative  conditioning  followed  by  hematopoietic  cell  allografting 
and donor lymphocyte infusions for patients with metastatic renal and breast cancer. Blood; 99: 4234-
36. 
Broniscer  et  al.  (2004)  High-Dose  Chemotherapy  With  Autologous  Stem-Cell  Rescue  in  the 
Treatment  of  Patients  With  Recurrent  Non-Cerebellar  Primitive  Neuroectodermal  tumour.  Pediatr 
Blood Cancer; 42: 261-67. 
Cairncross G. et al. (2000) Myeloablative chemotherapy for recurrent aggressive oligodendroglioma. 
Neuro-Oncol; 2: 114-19. 
Cappiello  V.  et  al.  (1960)  Antineoplastics.  A  14-day  study  in  rats  of  CL25,477:  Phosphinic  amide, 
P,P-bis(l-aziridinyl)-N-ethyl-N 1,3,4-thiazol-2-yl. Exp Ther Res 6: 356-382. 
Chan  et  al.  (1997)  High-dose  sequential  chemotherapy  and  autologous  stem  cell  reinfusion  in 
advanced pediatric solid tumours. Bone Marrow Transplantation; 20: 1039–43. 
Chang  T.K.  et  al.  (1995)  Modulation  of  thiotepa  antitumor  activity  in  vivo  by  alteration  of  liver 
cytochrome P450- catalyzed drug metabolism. J Pharmacol Exp Ther; 274: 270-75. 
Page 69 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chen  et  al.  (2004)  Safety  and  Efficacy  of  High-Dose  Chemotherapy  with  Autologous  Stem  Cell 
Transplantation for Patients with Malignant Astrocytomas. American Cancer Society; 100: 2201-207. 
Cheng  Y.C.  et  al.  (2004)  The  use  of  high-dose  cyclophosphamide,  carmustine,  and  thiotepa  plus 
autologous  hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  as  consolidation  therapy  for  high-risk  primary 
breast cancer after primary surgery or neoadiuvant chemotherapy. Biol Blood Marrow Transplan; 10: 
794-804. 
Cohen  B.E.  et  al.  (1986)  Human  plasma  pharmacokinetics  and  urinary  excretion  of  thiotepa  and  its 
metabolites. Cancer Treat Rep; 70: 859-64. 
Coombes  R.C.  et  al.  (2005)  High  dose  chemotherapy  and  autologous  stem  cell  transplantation  as 
adjuvant  therapy  for  primary  breast  cancer  patients  with  four  or  more  lymph  nodes  involved:  long-
term results of an international randomised trial. Ann Oncol; 16: 726-34. 
Corradini  P  et  al.  (2004)  Graft-Versus-Lymphoma  Effect  in  Relapsed  Peripheral  T-Cell  Non-
Hodgkin’s  Lymphomas  After  Reduced-Intensity  Conditioning  Followed  by  Allogeneic 
Transplantation of Hematopoietic Cells. J Clin Oncol; 22: 2172-76. 
Corradini  P.  et  al.  (2005)  Effect  of  Age  and  previous  autologous  transplantation  on  nonrelapse 
mortality  and  survival  in  patients  treated  with  reduced-intensity  conditioning  and  allografting  for 
advanced hematologic malignances. J Clin Onco 2005; 23: 6690-98. 
Corradini P et al. (2007) Allogeneic stem cell transplantation following reduced-intensity conditioning 
can  induce  durable  clinical  and  molecular  remissions  in  relapsed  lymphomas:  pre-transplant  disease 
status and histotype heavily influence outcome. Leukemia; 21 (11): 2316-23. 
Craig  A.W.  et  al.  (1959)  Metabolic  studies  of  32P-labelled  triethylenethio-phosphoramide.  Biochem 
Pharmacol; 3: 42-50. 
Crossley ML et al. (1953) Chemotherapy of tumors in rats with certain ethylenephosphor-amides. Proc 
Soc Exp Biol Med; 83: 438-47. 
Cumpston  A.D.  et  al.  (2007)  Outcome  with  a  thiotepa  containing  regimen  and  autologous  HSCT  in 
patients with NHL. Biology of Blood and Marrow Transplant; 13 Suppl. 2: 37. 
Dairman W. (1966) Azetepa Phosphinic Amide. A comparative evaluation of Azetepa, CL25,477 and 
Thio-Tepa, CL8206, in normal male C3H mice and dogs. Toxicology Evaluation III 1: 83-121. 
de Jonge M.E. et al. (2004) Integrated Population Pharmacokinetic Model of both cyclophosphamide 
and thiotepa suggesting a mutual drug-drug interaction. J Pharmacokinet Pharmacodyn; 31: 135-56 
Demirer  T.  et  al.  (2004)  High-dose  thiotepa,  melphalan  and  carboplatin  (TMCb)  followed  by 
autologous  peripheral  blood  stem  cell  transplantation  in  patients  with  lymphoma  a  retrospective 
evaluation. Bone Marrow Transplant; 34: 781-86. 
Dhall et al. (2008) Outcome of children less than three years old at diagnosis with nonmetastatic 
medulloblastoma treated with chemotherapy on the "Head Start" I and II protocols. Pediatr Blood 
Cancer; 50(6): 1169-75. 
di  Grazia  C.  et  al.  (2001)  Conventional  hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplants  from  identical  or 
alternative donors are feasible in recipients relapsing after an autograft. Haematologica; 86: 646-51. 
Dimopoulos et al. (1993) Thiotepa, busulfan, and cyclophosphamide: a new preparative regimen for 
autologous marrow or blood stem cell transplantation in high-risk multiple myeloma. Blood; 82: 2324-
28. 
Page 70 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Down  J.D.  et  al.  (1998)  Thiotepa  improves  allogeneic  bone  marrow  engraftment  without  enhancing 
stem cell depletion in irradiated mice. Bone Marrow Transplant; 21: 327-30. 
Dunkel  I.J.  et  al.  (1998)  High-dose  carboplatin,  thiotepa,  and  etoposide  with  autologous  stem-cell 
rescue for patients with recurrent medulloblastoma. Children's Cancer Group. J Clin Oncol; 16: 222-
28. 
Dupuis-Girod  S.  et  al.  (1997)  High-dose  chemotherapy  in  relapse  of  medulloblastoma  in 
young children. Bull Cancer; 84: 264-72. 
Drugdex(R)  System.  Thiotepa.  Klasco  RK  (Ed):  DRUGDEX®  System.Thomson  Micromedex, 
Greenwood Village, Colorado Edition 125 expires 6/2005. Ref Type: Generic. 
Evenson D.P. et al. (1986) Toxicity of thiotepa on mouse spermatogenesis as determined by 
dual-parameter flow cytometry. Toxicol Appl  Pharmacol; 82: 151-63. 
Fagioli  F  at  el.  (2004)  High-dose  thiotepa  and  etoposide  in  children  with  poor-prognosis  brain 
tumours. Cancer; 100: 2215-21. 
Finlay  J.L.  et.al.  (1990)  High-dose  multi-agent  chemotherapy  followed  by  bone  marrow  'rescue'  for 
malignant astrocytomas of childhood and adolescence. J Neurooncol; 9: 239-48. 
Finlay J.L. et al. (1996) Pilot study of high-dose thiotepa and etoposide with autologous bone marrow 
rescue in children and young adults with recurrent CNS tumours. The Children's Cancer Group. J Clin 
Oncol; 14: 2495-503. 
Gill  et  al.  (2008)  High-dose  Chemotherapy  With  Autologous  Stem  Cell  Transplantation  in  Adults 
With Recurrent Embryonal Tumours of the Central Nervous System. Cancer; 112: 1805-11. 
Glossmann J.P. et al. (2005) Autologous tandem transplantation in patients with primary progressive 
or relapsed/refractory lymphoma. Ann Hematol; [14 p.]. 
Gopal  et  al.  (2001)  Efficacy  of  high-dose  therapy  and  autologous  hematopoietic  stem  cell 
transplantation  for  non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma  in  adults  60  years  of  age  and  older.  Bone  Marrow 
Transplantation; 27(6): 593-9. 
Gratwohl  A  et  al.  Results  of  the  EBMT  activity  survey  2005  on  haematopoietic  stem  cell 
transplantation:  focus  on  increasing  use  of  unrelated  donors.  Bone  Marrow  Transplantation  (2007) 
39:71-87. 
Gratwohl A et al. The EBMT activity survey 2006 on hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: focus 
on the use of cord blood products. Bone Marrow Transplantation (2008) 41: 687-705. 
Gratwohl A et al. The EBMT activity survey 2007 with focus on allogeneic HSCT for AML and novel 
cellular therapies. Bone Marrow Transplantation (2009) 43: 275–291. 
Grill J. et al. (1996) A high-dose busulfan-thiotepa combination followed by autologous bone marrow 
transplantation in childhood recurrent ependymoma. A phase-II study. Pediatr Neurosurg; 25: 7-12. 
Grodman  et  al.  (2009)  Outcome  of  Patients  With  Recurrent  Medulloblastoma  or  Central  Nervous 
System  Germinoma  Treated  With  Low  Dose  Continuous  Intravenous  Etoposide  Along  With  Dose-
Intensive  Chemotherapy  Followed  by  Autologous  Hematopoietic  Stem  Cell  Rescue.  Pediatr  Blood 
Cancer; 53: 33-36. 
Grovas  A.C.  et  al.  (1999)  Regimenrelated  toxicity  of  myeloablative  chemotherapy  with  BCNU, 
thiotepa,  and  etoposide  followed  by  autologous  stem  cell  rescue  for  children  with  newly  diagnosed 
glioblastoma multiforme: report from the Children's Cancer Group. Med Pediatr Oncol; 33: 83-87. 
Page 71 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grullich  et  al.  (2008)  A  fludarabine,  thiotepa  reduced  toxicity  conditioning  regimen  designed 
specifically  for  allogeneic  second  haematopoietic  cell  transplantation  after  failure  of  previous 
autologous or allogeneic transplantation. Bone Marrow Transplantation; 41: 845–50. 
Gutierrez-Delgado  et  al.  (2001)  Autologous  stem  cell  transplantation  for  non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma: 
comparison of radiation-based and chemotherapy-only preparative regimens. Bone Marrow Transplant 
; 5: 455-61. 
Gutierrez-Delgado  F.  et  al.  (2003)  Autologous  stem  cell  transplantation  for  Hodgkin's  disease: 
busulfan,  melphalan  and  thiotepa  compared  to  a  radiation-based  regimen.  Bone  Marrow  Transplant; 
32: 279-285. 
Hagen B et al. (1987) Single and repeated dose pharmacokinetics of thio-TEPA in patients treated for 
ovarian carcinoma. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol; 19: 143-148. 
Hagen  B.  et  al.  (1988)  Pharmacokinetics  of  thio-TEPA  at  two  different  doses.  Cancer  Chemother 
Pharmacol; 22: 356-58. 
Hagen B. et al. (1990) Long-term pharmacokinetics of thio-TEPA, TEPA and total alkylating activity 
following  i.v.  bolus  administration  of  thio-TEPA  in  ovarian  cancer  patients.  Cancer  Chemother 
Pharmacol; 25: 257-62. 
Hagen  B.  (1991)  Pharmacokinetics  of  thio-TEPA  and  TEPA  in  the  conventional  dose-range  and  its 
correlation to myelosuppressive effects. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol; 27: 373-78. 
Halliday S. et al. (1958) Antineoplastics. Studies on the antitumor activity and toxicity of CL 8206: 
N,N’,N’’-triethylenethiophosphoramide (thio-TEPA). Pharmacol Res III; 4: 556-95. 
Hawkins et al. (2000) Busulfan, Melphalan, and Thiotepa With or Without Total Marrow Irradiation 
With Hematopoietic Stem Cell Rescue for Poor-Risk Ewing-Sarcoma-Family Tumours. Medical and 
Pediatric Oncology 34: 328–37. 
Heideman  R.L.  et  al.(1989)  Phase  I  and  pharmacokinetic  evaluation  of  thiotepa  in  the  cerebrospinal 
fluid  and  plasma  of  pediatric  patients:  evidence  for  dose-dependent  plasma  clearance  of  thiotepa. 
Cancer Res; 49: 736-41. 
Henner W.D. et al. (1987) Pharmacokinetics of continuous-infusion high-dose thiotepa. Cancer Treat 
Rep; 71: 1043-47. 
Holmberg et al, High-dose busulfan, melphalan and thiotepa followed by autologous peripheral blood 
stem  cell  (PBSC)  rescue  in  patients  with  advanced  stage  III/IV  ovarian  cancer.  Bone  Marrow 
Transplantation; 22: 651–59. 
Huitema  A.D.  et  al.  (2000)  Reduction  of  cyclophosphamide  bioactivation  by  thioTEPA:  critical 
sequence-dependency  in  high-dose  chemotherapy  regimens.  Cancer  Chemother  Pharmacol;  46:  119-
27. 
Huitema A.D. et al. (2001) Population pharmacokinetics of thioTEPA and its active metabolite TEPA 
in patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy. Br J Clin Pharmacol; 51: 61-70. 
IARC “Thiotepa” Monographs on the evaluation of carcinogenic risk to humans (1990); 50: 122-41. 
Illerhaus G. et al. (2006) High-Dose Chemotherapy With Autologous Stem-Cell Transplantation and 
Hyperfractionated Radiotherapy As First-Line Treatment of Primary CNS Lymphoma. J Clin Oncol; 
24: 3865-70. 
Page 72 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jacobson  P.A.  et  al.  (2002)  Cytochrome  P450  isozymes  3A4  and  2B6  are  involved  in  the  in  vitro 
human metabolism of Thiotepa to TEPA. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol; 49: 461-67. 
Jakubowsky  AA  et  al.  (2007)  T  cell  depleted  stem-cell  transplantation  for  adults  with  hematologic 
malignancies:  sustained  engraftment  of  HLA-matched  related  donor  grafts  without  the  use  of 
antithymocyte globulin. Blood; 110 (13): 4552-59. 
Kletzel  M.  et  al.  (1992)  Pharmacokinetics  of  high  dose  thiotepa  in  children  undergoing  autologous 
bone marrow transplantation. Bone Marrow Transplant; 10: 171-75. 
Kroger N. et al. (2003) Low incidence of secondary myelodysplasia and acute myeloid leukemia after 
high-dose chemotherapy as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer patients: a study by the Solid Tumors 
Working Party of the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Ann Oncol; 14: 554-58. 
Kushner et al. (2001) Topotecan combined with myeloablative doses of thiotepa and carboplatin for 
neuroblastoma, brain tumours, and other poor-risk solid tumours in children and young adults. Bone 
Marrow Transplantation; 28: 551–56. 
Lacerda  J.F.  et  al.  (2003)  Haploidentical  stem  cell  transplantation  with  purified  CD34  cells  after  a 
chemotherapy-alone conditioning regimen. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant; 9: 633-42.  
Lafay-Cousin  L.  et  al.  (2000)  High  dose  thiotepa  and  hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  in 
pediatric malignant mesenchymal tumours: a phase II study. Bone Marrow Transplant; 26: 627-32. 
La Nasa G. et al. (2002) Unrelated donor bone marrow transplantation for thalassemia: the effect of 
extended haplotypes. Blood; 99(12): 4350-56. 
La Nasa G. et al. (2005) Unrelated donor stem cell transplantation in adult patients with thalassemia. 
Bone Marrow Transplantation; 36: 971-75. 
Lazarus  H.M.  et  al  (1987)  High-dose  i.v.  thiotepa  and  cryopreserved  autologous  bone  marrow 
transplantation for therapy of refractory cancer. Cancer Treat Rep; 71: 689-95. 
single-cycle, 
Leonard  R.C.  et  al. 
autograftsupported, high-dose, late-intensification chemotherapy in high-risk breast cancer patients: a 
randomized trial. J Natl Cancer Inst; 96: 1076-83. 
(2004)  Conventional  adjuvant  chemotherapy  versus 
Ljungman  P.  Allogeneic  and  autologous  transplantation  for  haematological  diseases,  solid  tumours 
and immune disorders: current practice in Europe 2009. BMT (2009), 1-16 
Locatelli  et  al.  (2009)  Survey  of  432  patients  that  underwent  hematopoietic  progenitor  cell 
transplantation  (HPCT)  in  Paediatric  Onco-hematological  Unit  of  Policlinico  San  Matteo  Hospital, 
Pavia, Italy.  
Lucidarme  N.  et  al.  (1998)  Phase  II  study  of  high-dose  thiotepa  and  hematopoietic  stem  cell 
transplantation in children with solid tumours. Bone Marrow Transplant; 22: 535-40. 
Majolino I. et al. (2007) Reduced intensity conditioning with thiotepa, fludarabine, and melphalan is 
effective in advanced multiple myeloma. Leukemia & Lymphoma; 48: 759-66. 
Mason  W.P.  et  al.  (1998)  Intensive  chemotherapy  and  bone  marrow  rescue  for  young  children  with 
newly diagnosed malignant brain tumours. J Clin Oncol; 16: 210-21. 
Massimino  M  et  al.  (2005)  Sequential  chemotherapy,  high-dose  thiotepa,  circulating  progenitor  cell 
rescue, and radiotherapy for childhood high-grade glioma. Neuro-Oncol; 7: 41-48. 
Page 73 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Massimino M. et al. (2006) Supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumours (S-PINET) in children: 
a  prospective  experience  with  adjuvanmt  intensive  chemotherapy  and  hyperfractionated  accelerated 
radiotherapy. Int J Radiation Oncology Biol Phys.; 64: 1031-37. 
McCoy  A.G.  et  al.  (2004)  Cytoreduction  regimens.  A  novel  preparative  regimen  for  autologous 
transplant  in  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma:  long-term  experience  with  etoposide  and  thiotepa.  Bone 
Marrow Transplantation; 33: 19–24. 
Meistrich  M.L.  et  al  (1982)  Damaging  effects  of  fourteen  chemotherapeutic  drugs  on  mouse  testis 
cells. Cancer Res;  42: 122-31. 
Mellett L.B. et al. (1960) The comparative physiological disposition of thio –TEPA  and TEPA in the 
Dog. Cancer Res; 20: 524-32. 
Mellett L.B.  et al. (1962) Absorption and fate of C14-labeled N,N',N''-triethylenethiophosphoramide 
(thio-TEPA) in humans and dogs. J Lab Clin Med; 60: 818-25. 
Miller B. et al. (1988) Cellular pharmacology of N,N',N"-triethilenethiophosphoramide. Cancer Lett; 
41: 157-68. 
Montemurro  et  al.  (2007)  Primary  central  nervous  system  lymphoma  treated  with  high-dose 
methotrexate, high-dose busulfan/thiotepa, autologous stem-cell transplantation and response-adapted 
whole-brain  radiotherapy:  results  of  the  multicenter  Ostdeutsche  Studiengruppe  Hämato-Onkologie 
OSHO-53 phase II study. Annals of Oncology; 18: 665-71. 
Munson A.E. et al. (1974) Synergistic lethal action of alkylating agents and sodium pentobarbital in 
the mouse. Pharmacology; 11: 231-40. 
NCI (1979) Bioassay of Thio-TEPA for possible carcinogenicity. Testing Program N° 58: 1-168. 
Ng SF and Waxman D.J. (1991) N,N’,N"-triethylenethiophosphoramide (thio-TEPA) oxygenation by 
constitutive hepatic P450 enzymes and modulation of drug metabolism and clearance in vivo by P450-
inducing agents. Cancer Res; 51: 2340-45. 
NIH “Thiotepa” Rep. Carcinog. 10 (2002) : 131-32. 
Nitz UA et al. (2005) Comparison of rapidly cycled tandem high-dose chemioterapy plus peripheral 
blood stem cell support versus dose-dense conventional chemotherapy for ajuvant treatment of high-
risk breast cancer: results of a multicentre phase III trial.  Lancet; 366: 1935-44. 
O'Dwyer P.J. et al. (1991) Phase I/pharmacokinetic reevaluation of thioTEPA. Cancer Res; 51: 3171-
76. 
Papadakis  et  al.  (2000)  High-dose  carmustine,  thiotepa  and  etoposide  followed  by  autologous  bone 
marrow  rescue  for  the  treatment  of  high  risk  central  nervous  system  tumours.  Bone  Marrow 
Transplantation; 26: 153–60. 
Papadopoulos  K.P.  et  al.  (1998)  High-dose  thiotepa  and  etoposide-based  regimens  with  autologous 
hematopoietic  support  for  high-risk  or  recurrent  CNS  tumours  in  children  and  adults.  Bone  Marrow 
Transplant; 22: 661-67. 
Papadopoulos  E.B.  et  al.  T-cell-depleted  allogeneic  bone  marrow  transplantation  as  postremission 
therapy  for  acute  myelogenous  leukemia:  freedom  from  relapse  in  the  absence  of  graft-versus-host 
disease. Blood; 91 (3): 1083-90. 
Page 74 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Papadopoulos K.P. et al. (2005) Pilot study of tandem high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem 
cell trasnplatation with a novel combination of regimens in patients with poor risk lymphoma. BMT; 
36: 491-97. 
Pession A. et al. (1999) Phase I study of high-dose thiotepa with busulfan, etoposide, and autologous 
stem cell support in children with disseminated solid tumors. Med Pediatr Oncol; 33): 450-54. 
Picardi  A.  et  al.  (2004)  Possibility  of  long-term  remission  in  patients  with  advanced  hematologic 
malignancies  after  reduced  intensity  conditioning  regimen  (RIC)  and  allogeneic  stem  cell 
transplantation. Hematol J; 5: 24-31. 
Porrata L.F. et al. (2001) The pharmacologic basis of high dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic 
stem cell support for solid tumours. Br J Cancer; 85: 484-89. 
Przepiorka D. et al. (1995) A phase I-II study of high-dose thiotepa, busulfan and cyclophosphamide 
as a preparative regimen for autologous transplantation for malignant lymphoma. Leuk Lymphoma; 17 
: 427-33. 
Rae J.M. et al. (2002) Triethylenethiophosphor-amide is a specific inhibitor of cytochrome P4502B6: 
implications for cyclophosphamide metabolism. Drug Metab Dispos; 30: 525-30. 
Rao V.K. et al (2005) The extent of chromosomal aberration induced by chemotherapy in non-human 
primates depends on the schedule of administration. Mutation Research; 583: 105-19. 
Raiola  et  al.  (2000)  Reduced  intensity  thiotepa-cyclophosphamide  conditioning  for  allogeneic 
haemopoietic stem cell transplants (HPCT) in patients up to 60 years of age. Br J Haematol.; 109(4): 
716-21. 
Rick  et  al.  (2001)  Salvage  Treatment  With  Paclitaxel,  Ifosfamide,  and  Cisplatin  Plus  High-Dose 
Carboplatin,  Etoposide,  andThiotepa  Followed  by  Autologous  Stem-Cell  Rescue  in  Patients  With 
Relapsed or Refractory Germ Cell Cancer. J Clin Oncol; 19: 81-88. 
Ridola  et  al.  (2007)  High-dose  Chemotherapy  With  Autologous  Stem  Cell  Rescue  Followed  by 
Posterior Fossa Irradiation for Local Medulloblastoma Recurrence or Progression After Conventional 
Chemotherapy. Cancer; 110: 156-63. 
Rigden JP. et al. Minimizing graft rejection in allogeneic T cell-depleted bone marrow transplantation. 
Bone Marrow Transplantation; 18 (5): 913-19. 
Rodenhuis S. et al. (2003) High dose chemotherapy with hematopoietic stem-cell rescue for high-risk 
breast cancer. N Engl J Med; 349: 7-16. 
Rodenhuis S et al. (2006) Efficacy of high-dose alkylating chemotherapy in HER2/neu-negative breast 
cancer. Ann. Oncol. 
Rosales  F.  et  al.  (1999)  The  role  of  thiotepa  in  allogeneic  stem  cell  transplantation  in  patients  with 
leukemia. Leuk Res; 23: 947-52. 
Rose et al. (2000) The feasibility of high-dose chemotherapy in breast cancer patients with impaired 
left ventricular function. Bone Marrow Transplantation; 26: 133–39. 
Ruddon R.W. et al. (1964) Distribution of C14-labeled ThioTEPA (NSC-6396) and its metabolites in 
normal and tumor-bearing rats. Cancer Chemother Rep; 39: 7-13. 
Rzeski W. et al. (2004) Anticancer agents are potent neurotoxins in vitro and in vivo. Ann Neurol;  56: 
351-60. 
Page 75 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shimkin M.B. et al. (1966) Bioassay of 29 alkylating chemicals by the pulmonary-tumor-response in 
strain A mice. J Natl Cancer Inst; 36: 915-35. 
Shimoni A. et al. (2001) Thiotepa, busulfan, cyclophosphamide (TBC) and autologous hematopoietic 
transplantation:  an  intensive  regimen  for  the  treatment  of  multiple  myeloma.  Bone  Marrow 
Transplantation; 27(8): 821-28. 
Shrama  et  al,  Toxicity  of  the  high-dose  chemotherapy  CTC  regimen  (cyclophosphamide,  thiotepa, 
carboplatin): the Netherlands Cancer Institute experience. British Journal of Cancer; 88: 1831–38. 
Sloboda A.E. (1960) Antineoplastics- Evaluation. The Effect of Polyethylene glycol 400 upon the 
LD50 of CL 8206 (Thiotepa) in rats and mice. Pharmacol Res; 6: 1811-18. 
Sloboda A.E. et al. (1962) Comparison of two antineoplastic compounds with thioTEPA: a laboratory 
evaluation. Cancer Chemother Rep; 24: 7-17. 
Stemmer  et  al.  (2001)  Feasibility  and  Low  Toxicity  of  Early  Radiotherapy  after  High-Dose 
Chemotherapy and Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation for Patients with High-Risk Stage II–III and 
Locally Advanced Breast Carcinoma. Cancer: 1983-91. 
Stemmer  et  al.  (2003)  Adjuvant  treatment  of  high-risk  stage  II  breast  cancer  with  doxorubicin 
followed  by  high-dose  chemotherapy  and  autologous  stem-cell  transplantation:  a  single-institution 
experience with 132 consecutive patients. Bone Marrow Transplantation 31: 655–61. 
Stiff P.J. et al. (2004) Randomized Phase II trial of two highdose chemotherapy regimens with stem 
cell transplantation for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer in first remission or chemosensitive 
relapse: a Southwest Oncology Group study. Gynecol Oncol; 94: 98-106. 
Stoner GD et al. (1973) Test for carcinogenicity of food additives and chemotherapeutic agents by the 
pulmon tumor response in strain A mice. Cancer  Res; 33: 3069-85. 
Strahm et al. (2007) Reduced intensity conditioning in unrelated donor transplantation for refractory 
cytopenia in childhood. Bone Marrow Transplant; 40 (4): 329-33. 
Strong  J.M.  et  al.  (1986)  Pharmacokinetics  of  intraventricular  and  intravenous  N,N',N’’-tri-
ethylenethiophosphoramide  (thiotepa)  in  rhesus  monkeys  and  humans.  Cancer  Res;  46  (Pt  1):  6101-
104. 
Tallman  M.S.  et  al.  (2003)  Conventional  adjuvant  chemotherapy  with  or  without  high-dose 
chemotherapy and autologous stem-cell transplantation in high-risk breast cancer. N Engl J Med; 349: 
17-26. 
Tanimura  T.  (1968)  Relationship  of  dosage  and  time  of  administration  to  the  teratogenic  effects  of 
thio-TEPA in mice. Okajimas Folia Anat Jpn; 44: 203-53. 
Teicher B.A. et al. (1989) Evidence for enzymatic activation and oxygen involvement in cytotoxicity 
and antitumor activity of N,N',N"-triethylenethiophosphoramide. Cancer Res 49: 4996-5001. 
Teicher  B.A.  et  al.  (1990)  Preclinical  studies  relating  to  the  use  of  thiotepa  in  the  high-dose  setting 
alone and in combination." Semin Oncol; 17 Suppl. 3: 18-32. 
Terenzi A. et al. (1990) Enhancement of T cell-depleted bone marrow allografts in mice by thiotepa. 
Transplantation; 50: 717-20. 
Tiersten et al, Phase I/II study of tandem cycles of high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous 
hematopoietic stem cell support in women with advanced ovarian cancer. Int J Gynecol Cancer; 16: 
57–64. 
Page 76 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ueno  N.T.  et  al.  (2009)  High-Dose  Chemotherapy  with  Autologous  Stem-Cell  Support  Versus 
Standard-Dose Chemotherapy for High-Risk Breast Cancer: Meta- Analysis of Individual Patient Data 
from  15  Randomized  Adjuvant  Trial.  Biology  of Blood  and  Marrow  Transplantation  February  2008 
(Vol. 14, Issue 2, Page 91) 929-35. 
Valteau-Couanet D. et al.  (2005) High-dose busulfan and thiotepa followed by autologous stem  cell 
transplantation  (HPCT)  in  previously  irradiated  medulloblastoma  patients:  high  toxicity  and  lack  of 
efficacy. Bone Marrow Transplantation; 36: 939-45. 
van  der  Wall  et  al.,  High-dose  carboplatin,  thiotepa  and  cyclophosphamide  (CTC)  with  peripheral 
blood stem cell support in the adjuvant therapy of high-risk breast cancer: a practical approach. BJC 
(1995) 71: 857-862. 
van  Maanen  M.J.  et  al.  (2000)  Chemistry,  pharmacology  and  pharmacokinetics  of  N,N',N''-
triethylenethiophosphoramide (ThioTEPA). Cancer Treat Rev; 26: 257-68. 
Viby-Mogensen J. (1985) Interaction of other drugs with muscle relaxants. Sem Anesth 4.1: 52-64. 
Waheed  et  al.  (2004)  High  dose  chemotherapy  with  thiotepa,  mitoxantrone  and  carboplatin  (TMJ) 
followed  by  autologous  stem  cell  support  in  100  consecutive  lymphoma  patients  in  a  single  centre: 
analysis of efficacy, toxicity and prognostic factors. Leuk Lymphoma; 45: 2253-59. 
Weaver  C.H.  et  al.  (1997)  Treatment-related  mortality  in  1000  consecutive  patients  receiving  high-
dose chemotherapy and peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation in community cancer centers. 
Bone Marrow Transplant; 19: 671-78. 
Wong  et  al.  (2003)  Idiopathic  pneumonia  syndrome  after  high-dose  chemotherapy  and  autologous 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for high-risk breast cancer. Bone Marrow Transplantation;  31: 
1157-63. 
Yalamanchili  et  al.  (2008)  High-dose  chemotherapy  with  autologous  stem  cell  rescue  in  stage  IIIB 
inflammatory breast cancer. Anticancer Res.; 28(5B): 3139-42. 
Zander A.R. et al. (2004) High-dose chemotherapy with autologous hematopoietic stem-cell support 
compared  with  standard-dose  chemotherapy  in  breast  cancer  patients  with  10  or  more  positive 
lymphnodes: first results of a randomized trial. J Clin Oncol; 22: 2273-83. 
Zecca  et  al.  (1999)  Total  Body    Irradiation,  Thiotepa,  and  Cyclophosphamide  as  a  Conditioning 
Regimen for Children With Acute Lymphoblastic Leucemia in First or Second Remission Undergoing 
Bone Marrow Transplantation With HLA-Identical Siblings. J Clin Oncol 17: 1838-46. 
Page 77 of 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 78 of 78 
 
