ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
TEPMETKO 225 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 225 mg tepotinib (as hydrochloride hydrate). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 4.4 mg lactose monohydrate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
White-pink, oval, biconvex film-coated tablet of approximately 18 x 9 mm in size, embossed with ‘M’ 
on one side and plain on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
TEPMETKO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harbouring alterations leading to mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor 
gene exon 14 (METex14) skipping, who require systemic therapy following prior treatment with 
immunotherapy and/or platinum-based chemotherapy. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment must be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of anticancer 
therapies. 
Prior to initiation of treatment with TEPMETKO the presence of METex14 skipping alterations should 
be confirmed by a validated test method (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 450 mg tepotinib (2 tablets) taken once daily. Treatment should continue as 
long as clinical benefit is observed. 
If a daily dose is missed, it can be taken as soon as remembered on the same day, unless the next dose 
is due within 8 hours. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose modification for adverse reactions 
The recommended dose reduction level for the management of adverse reactions is 225 mg (1 tablet) 
daily. Detailed recommendations for dose modification are provided in the table hereafter. 
Table 1: Recommended dose modifications for TEPMETKO 
Adverse reaction 
Severity 
Dose modification 
Interstitial lung disease 
(ILD) (see section 4.4) 
Any grade 
Increased ALT and/or AST 
without increased total 
bilirubin (see section 4.4) 
ALT and/or AST greater 
than 5 times up to 
20 times ULN 
Increased ALT and/or AST 
with increased total 
bilirubin in the absence of 
cholestasis or haemolysis 
(see section 4.4) 
Other adverse reactions 
(see section 4.8) 
ALT and/or AST greater 
than 20 times ULN 
ALT and/or AST greater 
than 3 times ULN with 
total bilirubin greater 
than 2 times ULN 
Grade 3 or higher  
Withhold TEPMETKO if ILD is 
suspected. 
Permanently discontinue TEPMETKO if 
ILD is confirmed. 
Withhold TEPMETKO until recovery to 
baseline ALT/AST. 
If recovered to baseline within 7 days, 
then resume TEPMETKO at the same 
dose; otherwise resume TEPMETKO at a 
reduced dose. 
Permanently discontinue TEPMETKO. 
Permanently discontinue TEPMETKO. 
Reduce TEPMETKO to 225 mg until the 
adverse reaction recovers to ≤ grade 2. 
A temporary interruption of TEPMETKO 
treatment for no more than 21 days can 
also be considered. 
ULN = upper limit of normal 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance 30 to 89 mL/min) (see section 5.2). The pharmacokinetics and safety of tepotinib in patients 
with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance below 30 mL/min) have not been studied. The use 
of TEPMETKO in patients with severe renal impairment is therefore not recommended. 
Renal function estimates that rely on serum creatinine (creatinine clearance or estimated glomerular 
filtration rate) should be interpreted with caution (see section 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with mild (Child Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child 
Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). The pharmacokinetics and safety of tepotinib in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class C) have not been studied. The use of 
TEPMETKO in patients with severe hepatic impairment is therefore not recommended. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients aged 65 years and above (see section 5.2). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Safety and efficacy of tepotinib in paediatric patients below 18 years of age have not been established. 
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
TEPMETKO is for oral use. The tablet(s) should be taken with food and should be swallowed whole 
to ensure that the full dose is administered. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Assessment of METex14 skipping alterations status 
When detecting the presence of alterations leading to METex14 skipping using tissue-based or plasma-
based specimens, it is important that a well-validated and robust test is chosen to avoid false negative 
or false positive results. For the characteristics of tests used in clinical studies, see section 5.1. 
Interstitial lung disease and pneumonitis 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) or ILD-like adverse reactions including pneumonitis have been reported 
in patients who received tepotinib monotherapy at the recommended dose regimen and may be fatal 
(see section 4.8). 
Patients should be monitored for pulmonary symptoms indicative for ILD-like reactions. TEPMETKO 
should be withheld and patients should be promptly investigated for alternative diagnosis or specific 
aetiology of interstitial lung disease. TEPMETKO must be permanently discontinued if interstitial 
lung disease is confirmed and the patient be treated appropriately. 
Monitoring of liver enzymes 
Increase in ALT and/or AST have been reported in patients who received tepotinib monotherapy at the 
recommended dose regimen (see section 4.8). 
Liver enzymes (ALT and AST) and bilirubin should be monitored prior to the start of TEPMETKO 
treatment and thereafter as clinically indicated. If grade 3 or higher increases (ALT and/or AST greater 
than 5 times ULN) occur, dose adjustment or discontinuation is recommended (see section 4.2). 
QTc prolongation 
QTc prolongation was reported in a limited number of patients (see section 4.8). In patients at risk of 
developing QTc prolongation, including patients with known electrolyte disturbances or taking 
concomitant medicinal products known to have QTc prolongation effects, monitoring is recommended 
as clinically indicated (e.g. ECG, electrolytes). 
Embryo-foetal toxicity 
Tepotinib can cause foetal harm when administered to pregnant women. Pregnancy testing is 
recommended in women of childbearing potential prior to initiating treatment with TEPMETKO. 
Women of childbearing potential and males with female partners of childbearing potential should use 
effective contraception during TEPMETKO treatment and for at least 1 week after the last dose (see 
section 4.6). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interpretation of laboratory tests 
In vitro studies suggest that tepotinib or its main metabolite inhibit the renal tubular transporter 
proteins organic cation transporter (OCT) 2 and multidrug and toxin extrusion transporters (MATE) 1 
and 2 (see section 5.2). Creatinine is a substrate of these transporters, and the observed increases in 
creatinine (see section 4.8) may be the result of inhibition of active tubular secretion rather than renal 
injury. Renal function estimates that rely on serum creatinine (creatinine clearance or estimated 
glomerular filtration rate) should be interpreted with caution considering this effect. In case of blood 
creatinine increase while on treatment, it is recommended that further assessment of the renal function 
be performed to exclude renal impairment. 
Lactose content 
TEPMETKO contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total 
lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of other medicinal products on tepotinib 
CYP and P-gp inducers 
Tepotinib is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). In healthy participants, co-administration of a single 
450 mg tepotinib dose with the strong inducer carbamazepine (300 mg twice daily for 14 days) 
decreased tepotinib AUCinf by 35% and Cmax by 11% compared to administration of tepotinib alone. 
The decreased exposure is not clinically relevant. 
Dual strong CYP3A inhibitors and P-gp inhibitors 
In healthy participants, co-administration of a single 450 mg tepotinib dose with the strong CYP3A 
inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor itraconazole (200 mg once daily for 11 days) increased tepotinib AUCinf 
by 22% with no change in tepotinib Cmax compared to administration of tepotinib alone. This is 
classified as a weak interaction, and the observed changes in systemic exposure to tepotinib are not 
considered clinically relevant. Therefore, CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors are not expected to influence 
tepotinib exposure. 
Acid-reducing agents 
Co-administration of omeprazole under fed conditions had no clinically relevant effect on the 
pharmacokinetic profile of a single dose of tepotinib 450 mg and its metabolites (geometric mean ratio 
for tepotinib of 110% for AUCinf (90% CI: 102; 119) and of 104% for Cmax (90% CI: 93; 117); similar 
effect on metabolites observed). 
Effects of tepotinib on other medicinal products 
P-gp substrates 
Tepotinib is an inhibitor of P-gp. Administration of tepotinib 450 mg orally once daily for 8 days 
increased the AUC of the sensitive P-gp substrate dabigatran etexilate by approximately 50% and Cmax 
by approximately 40%. Dose adjustment of dabigatran etexilate may be needed in case of concomitant 
use. Caution and monitoring for adverse reactions of other P-gp-dependent substances with a narrow 
therapeutic index (e.g. digoxin, aliskiren, everolimus, sirolimus) is recommended during co-
administration with TEPMETKO. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BCRP substrates 
Tepotinib can inhibit the transport of substrates of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) in vitro 
(see section 5.2). Monitoring for adverse reactions of sensitive BCRP substrates (e.g. rosuvastatin, 
methotrexate, topotecan) is recommended during co-administration with TEPMETKO. 
Substrates of OCT and MATE 
Based on in vitro data, tepotinib or its metabolite may have the potential to alter the exposure of 
substrates of the transporters OCT1 and 2 and MATE1 and 2 (see section 5.2). The most clinically 
relevant example of substrates of these transporters is metformin. Monitoring of the clinical effects of 
metformin is recommended during co-administration with TEPMETKO. 
CYP3A4 substrates 
Multiple administrations of 450 mg tepotinib orally once daily had no clinically relevant effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate midazolam. 
Hormonal contraceptives 
It is currently unknown whether tepotinib may reduce the effectiveness of systemically acting 
hormonal contraceptives. Therefore, women using systemically acting hormonal contraceptives should 
add a barrier method during TEPMETKO treatment and for at least 1 week after the last dose (see 
section 4.6). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Pregnancy testing is recommended in women of childbearing potential prior to initiating treatment 
with TEPMETKO. 
Women of childbearing potential should use effective contraception during TEPMETKO treatment 
and for at least 1 week after the last dose. Women using systemically acting hormonal contraceptives 
should add a barrier method during TEPMETKO treatment and for at least 1 week after the last dose 
(see section 4.5). 
Male patients with female partners of childbearing potential should use barrier contraception during 
TEPMETKO treatment and for at least 1 week after the last dose. 
Pregnancy 
There are no clinical data on the use of tepotinib in pregnant women. Studies in animals have shown 
teratogenicity (see section 5.3). Based on the mechanism of action and findings in animals tepotinib 
can cause foetal harm when administered to pregnant women. 
TEPMETKO should not be used during pregnancy, unless the clinical condition of the woman 
requires treatment with tepotinib. Women of childbearing potential or male patients with female 
partners of childbearing potential should be advised of the potential risk to a foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
There are no data regarding the secretion of tepotinib or its metabolites in human milk or its effects on 
the breast-fed child or milk production. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with 
TEPMETKO and for at least 1 week after the last dose. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of tepotinib on fertility are available. No morphological changes in male 
or female reproductive organs were seen in the repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs, except for 
reduced secretion in seminal vesicles of male rats at comparable human clinical exposure (see 
section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
TEPMETKO has no influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions in ≥ 20% of exposed to tepotinib at the recommended dose in the 
target indication (N = 313) are oedema (81.5% of patients), mainly peripheral oedema (72.5%), 
hypoalbuminaemia (32.9%), nausea (31.0%), increase in creatinine (29.1%) and diarrhoea (28.8%). 
The most common serious adverse reactions in ≥ 1% of patients are peripheral oedema (3.2%), 
generalised oedema (1.9%) and ILD (1.0%). 
The percentage of patients who had adverse events leading to permanent treatment discontinuation is 
24.9%. The most common adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation in ≥ 1% of patients 
are peripheral oedema (5.4%), oedema (1.3%), genital oedema (1.0%) and ILD (1.0%). 
The percentage of patients who had adverse events leading to temporary treatment discontinuation is 
52.7%. The most common adverse reactions leading to temporary discontinuation in ≥ 2% of patients 
are peripheral oedema (19.8%), increase in creatinine (5.8%), generalised oedema (4.8%), oedema 
(3.8%), increase in ALT (2.9%), nausea (3.2%) and increase in amylase (1.6%). 
The percentage of patients who had adverse events leading to dose reduction is 36.1%. The most 
common adverse reactions leading to dose reduction in ≥ 2% of patients are peripheral oedema 
(15.7%), increase in creatinine (2.9%), generalised oedema (3.2%) and oedema (2.6%). 
List of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions described in the list below reflect exposure to tepotinib in 506 patients with various 
solid tumours enrolled in five open-label studies, in which patients received tepotinib as a single agent 
at a dose of 450 mg once daily. 
The frequencies of adverse reactions are based on all-cause adverse event frequencies identified in 
313 patients exposed to tepotinib at the recommended dose in the target indication, whereas 
frequencies for changes in laboratory parameters are based on worsening from baseline by at least 
1 grade and shifts to ≥ grade 3. Median duration of treatment was 7.5 months (range 0 to 72). 
Frequencies presented may not be fully attributable to tepotinib alone but may contain contributions 
from the underlying disease or from other medicinal products used concomitantly. 
The severity of adverse reactions was assessed based on the Common Terminology Criteria for 
Adverse Events (CTCAE), defining grade 1 = mild, grade 2 = moderate, grade 3 = severe, 
grade 4 = life threatening and grade 5 = death. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following definitions apply to the frequency terminology used hereafter: 
Very common (≥ 1/10) 
Common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) 
Rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) 
Very rare (< 1/10 000) 
Frequency not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Table 2: Adverse reactions in patients with NSCLC harbouring METex14 skipping alterations 
(VISION) 
System organ class/Adverse reaction 
TEPMETKO 
N = 313 
Frequency category  All grades 
% 
Grade ≥ 3 
% 
8.9 
--- 
0.3 
1.3 
0.6 
5.1 
5.1 
1.0 
1.6 
4.8 
3.5 
1.0 
Very common 
78.6 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Decrease in albumin*,a 
Cardiac disorders 
QT prolongation* 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
ILD-like reactions*,b,c 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Increase in amylase*,a 
Increase in lipase*,a 
Vomiting 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
2.6 
2.6 
31.0 
28.8 
24.0 
20.4 
14.4 
50.8 
48.9 
39.3 
Increase in alkaline phosphatase (ALP)* 
Increase in alanine aminotransferase (ALT)*,a 
Very common 
Very common 
Increase in aspartate aminotransferase (AST)*,a 
Very common 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Increase in creatinine*,a 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
58.8 
Oedema*,d 
* Additional information on the respective adverse reaction is provided below 
a Represents the incidence of laboratory findings, not of reported adverse events 
b ILD as per integrated assessment 
c includes terms interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, acute respiratory failure 
d includes terms oedema peripheral, oedema, generalised oedema, oedema genital, face oedema, localised oedema, periorbital 
oedema, peripheral swelling, scrotal oedema 
Very common 
15.7 
81.5 
8 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Interstitial lung disease 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) or ILD-like reactions have been reported in 8 patients (2.6%), including 
1 case of grade 3 or higher; serious cases occurred in 4 patients (1.3%), 1 case was fatal. Treatment 
was permanently discontinued in 5 patients and temporarily in 3 patients. Median time to onset of ILD 
was 9.4 weeks. For clinical recommendations, see sections 4.2 and 4.4. 
Increase in liver enzymes 
ALT and/or AST increase led to permanent treatment discontinuation in 1 patient and infrequently led 
to temporary discontinuation (3.2%) or dose reduction (0.3%) of tepotinib. Median time to first onset 
for ALT and/or AST increase of any grade reported as an adverse event by investigators was 
9.1 weeks. The median time to resolution was 3.6 weeks, 86% of events resolved. For clinical 
recommendations, see sections 4.2 and 4.4. 
ALP increase did not lead to any dose reductions, temporary treatment discontinuation or permanent 
discontinuation. The observed ALP increase was not associated with cholestasis. Median time to first 
onset for ALP increase of any grade reported as an adverse event by investigators was 9.1 weeks. The 
median time to resolution was 9.1 weeks, 80% of events resolved. 
Oedema 
The most frequently reported event was peripheral oedema (72.5% of patients), followed by oedema 
(8.3%) and generalised oedema (6.7%). Median time to onset of any-grade oedema was 9.1 weeks. 
The median time to resolution was 71 weeks, 39.2% of events resolved. 8% of patients had oedema 
events leading to permanent treatment discontinuation, of whom 5.4% had peripheral oedema. 28.4% 
of patients temporarily discontinued treatment and 21.7% of patients had dose reductions due to 
oedema. Most frequently peripheral oedema led to temporary treatment discontinuation and dose 
reductions (19.8% and 15.7%, respectively). Generalised oedema events led to a dose reduction in 
3.2% of patients, to temporary treatment discontinuation in 4.8% and to permanent discontinuation in 
0.6%. 
Increase in creatinine 
Increase in creatinine led to permanent treatment discontinuation in 2 patients (0.6%), temporary 
treatment discontinuation in 5.8% of patients and dose reduction in 2.9% of patients. Median time to 
onset of increase in creatinine reported as an adverse event by investigators was 3.4 weeks. The 
median time to resolution was 9.1 weeks, 78% of events resolved. The observed increases in creatinine 
are thought to occur mainly due to inhibition of renal tubular secretion (see section 4.4). 
Hypoalbuminaemia 
Hypoalbuminaemia appeared to be long-lasting but did not lead to permanent treatment 
discontinuation. Dose reduction (1.6%) and temporary discontinuation (1.9%) were infrequent. 
Median time to onset of any-grade hypoalbuminaemia reported as an adverse event by investigators 
was 9.4 weeks. The median time to resolution was 28.9 weeks, 48% of events resolved. 
Increase in amylase or lipase 
Increases in amylase or lipase reported as an adverse event by investigators were asymptomatic and 
not associated with pancreatitis. 3.2% of patients temporarily discontinued treatment and there were 
no permanent treatment discontinuation or dose reduction. Median time to onset of any grade in 
lipase/amylase increase was 15 weeks. The median time to resolution was 6.1 weeks, 83% of events 
resolved. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QTc prolongation 
QTcF prolongation to > 500 ms was observed in 8 patients (2.6%) and a QTcF prolongation by at least 
60 ms from baseline in 19 patients (6.1%) (see section 4.4). The findings were isolated and 
asymptomatic; the clinical significance is unknown. 
Additional information on special populations 
Elderly 
Of 313 patients with METex14 skipping alterations in the VISION study who received 450 mg 
tepotinib once daily, 79% were 65 years or older, and 8% were 85 years or older. The occurrence of 
grade ≥ 3 events increased with age. Treatment-related serious events were more frequent in patients 
aged ≥ 75 years and < 85 years (21%) or those aged ≥ 85 years (20.8%) when compared to those 
younger than 65 years (10.4%), although this comparison is limited by the small sample size in 
patients aged ≥ 85 years. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Tepotinib has been investigated at doses up to 1 261 mg, but experience with doses higher than the 
recommended therapeutic dose is limited. 
The symptoms of overdose are expected to be in the range of known adverse reactions (see 
section 4.8). There is no specific antidote for TEPMETKO. Treatment of overdose is directed to 
symptoms. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, other protein kinase inhibitors, ATC code: 
L01EX21 
Mechanism of action 
Tepotinib is a reversible Type I adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-competitive small molecule inhibitor of 
MET. Tepotinib blocked MET phosphorylation and MET-dependent downstream signalling such as 
the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/Akt) and mitogen-activated protein 
kinase/extracellular-signal regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) pathways in a dose-dependent manner. 
Tepotinib demonstrated pronounced anti-tumour activity in tumours with oncogenic activation of 
MET, such as METex14 skipping alterations. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
A concentration-dependent increase in QTc interval was observed in the concentration-QTc analysis. 
At the recommended dose, no large mean increases in QTc (i.e. > 20 ms) were detected in patients 
with various solid tumours. The QTc effect of tepotinib at supratherapeutic exposures has not been 
evaluated. See sections 4.4. and 4.8. 
Detection of METex14 skipping status 
In clinical studies, identification of METex14 skipping alterations relied on next generation 
sequencing using RNA or DNA (1 patient) extracted from formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) 
tumour tissue or using circulating cell free DNA from plasma. Additionally, a RNA-based reverse 
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction-based method specific for detecting METex14 skipping 
alterations from fresh frozen tissue was available to patients in Japan. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of tepotinib was evaluated in a single-arm, open-label, multicentre study (VISION) in 
adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harbouring 
METex14 skipping alterations (n = 313). Patients had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
Performance Status (ECOG PS) of 0 to 1 and were either treatment-naïve or had progressed on up to 
2 lines prior systemic therapies. Neurologically stable patients with central nervous system metastases 
were permitted. Patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or anaplastic lymphoma 
kinase (ALK) activating alterations were excluded. Patients received tepotinib as first-line (52%), 
second-line (29%) or later line (18%) therapy. 
Patients who received tepotinib for second- or later line therapy (n = 149) had a median age of 
71 years (range 41 to 89), 52% were female and 48% male. The majority of patients were white 
(56%), followed by Asian patients (38%) and were never (53%) or former smokers (40%). Most 
patients were ≥ 65 years of age (75%) and 35% of patients were ≥ 75 years of age. The majority of 
patients (95%) had stage IV disease, 81% had adenocarcinoma histology. Thirteen percent of the 
patients had stable brain metastases. Eighty-four percent of patients had received prior platinum-based 
cancer therapy and 54% of patients had received immune-based cancer therapy, including 40% of 
patients who had received immunotherapy as monotherapy. METex14 skipping was prospectively 
detected by testing from tumour tissue in 65% of patients and by testing from plasma in 56% of 
patients; 56% of patients tested positive with both methods. 
Patients received 450 mg tepotinib once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 
Median treatment duration was 7.5 months (range 0 to 72). The follow-up time was at least 18 and up 
to 72 months at the time of the data cut-off (cut-off date 20 November 2022). 
The primary efficacy outcome measure was confirmed objective response (complete response or 
partial response) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) as 
evaluated by an Independent Review Committee (IRC). Additional efficacy outcome measures 
included duration of response and progression-free survival assessed by IRC as well as overall 
survival. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Clinical outcomes in the VISION study by IRC assessment 
Overall 
population 
Efficacy parameter 
Previously treated 
patients 
Objective response rate (ORR), %a 
[95% CI] 
N = 313 
51.4 
N = 149 
45.0 
[45.8, 57.1] 
[36.8, 53.3] 
Median duration of response (mDoR), monthsb 
18.0 
12.6 
[95% CI] 
[12.4, 46.4] 
[9.5, 18.5] 
IRC = Independent Review Committee, CI = confidence interval 
a Only includes partial response 
b Product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) estimates, 95% CI for the median using the Brookmeyer and Crowley method 
Efficacy outcome was independent of the testing modality (in plasma or tumour specimens) used to 
establish the METex14 skipping status. Consistent efficacy results in subgroups by prior therapy, 
presence of brain metastasis or age were observed. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
TEPMETKO in all subsets of the paediatric population in treatment of non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
A mean absolute bioavailability of 71.6% was observed for a single 450 mg dose of tepotinib 
administered in the fed state; the median time to Cmax was 8 hours (range from 6 to 12 hours). 
The presence of food (standard high-fat, high-calorie breakfast) increased the AUC of tepotinib by 
about 1.6-fold and Cmax by 2-fold. 
Distribution 
In human plasma, tepotinib is highly protein bound (98%). The mean volume of distribution (Vz) of 
tepotinib after an intravenous tracer dose (geometric mean and geoCV%) was 574 L (14.4%). 
Biotransformation 
Overall, metabolism is a major route of elimination, but no single metabolic pathway accounted for 
more than 25% of tepotinib elimination. Only one major circulating plasma metabolite has been 
identified, MSC2571109A. There is only a minor contribution of the major circulating metabolite to 
the overall efficacy of tepotinib in humans. 
In-vitro pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Effects of tepotinib on other transporters: Tepotinib or its major circulating metabolite inhibit P-gp, 
BCRP, OCT1 and 2 and MATE1 and 2 at clinically relevant concentrations. At clinically relevant 
concentrations tepotinib presents no risk for organic-anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 and 
OATP1B3 or organic anion transporter (OAT) 1 and 3. 
Effects of tepotinib on UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT): Tepotinib is an inhibitor of UGT1A9 at 
clinically relevant concentrations, but the clinical relevance is unknown. Tepotinib and its major 
circulating metabolite are not inhibitors of the other isoforms (UGT1A1/3/4/6 and 2B7/15/17) at 
clinically relevant concentrations. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of tepotinib on CYP 450 enzymes: At clinically relevant concentrations neither tepotinib nor the 
major circulating metabolite represent a risk of inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, 
CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP2E1. Tepotinib or its major circulating metabolite do not induce 
CYP1A2 and 2B6. 
Elimination 
After intravenous administration of single doses, a total systemic clearance (geometric mean and 
geoCV%) of 12.8 L/h was observed. 
After a single oral administration of a radiolabelled dose of 450 mg tepotinib, tepotinib was mainly 
excreted via the faeces (approximately 78% of the dose was recovered in faeces), with urinary 
excretion being a minor excretion pathway. 
Biliary excretion of tepotinib is a major elimination pathway. The unchanged tepotinib represented 
45% and 7% of the total radioactive dose in faeces and urine, respectively. The major circulating 
metabolite accounted for only about 3% of the total radioactive dose in the faeces. 
The effective half-life for tepotinib is approximately 32 h. After multiple daily administrations of 
450 mg tepotinib, median accumulation was 2.5-fold for Cmax and 3.3-fold for AUC0-24h. 
Dose and time dependence 
Tepotinib exposure increases approximately dose-proportionally over the clinically relevant dose 
range up to 450 mg. The pharmacokinetics of tepotinib did not change with respect to time. 
Special populations 
A population kinetic analysis did not show any clinically meaningful effect of age (range 18 to 
89 years), race, gender or body weight, on the pharmacokinetics of tepotinib. Data on ethnicities other 
than Caucasian or Asian are limited. 
Renal impairment 
There was no clinically meaningful change in exposure in patients with mild and moderate renal 
impairment. Patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min) were 
not included in clinical studies. 
Hepatic impairment 
Following a single oral dose of 450 mg, tepotinib exposure was similar in healthy subjects and patients 
with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A) and was slightly lower (13% lower AUC and 29% 
lower Cmax) in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B) compared to healthy 
subjects. Based on unbound tepotinib concentrations, AUC was about 13% and 24% higher in patients 
with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, respectively, compared to healthy subjects. The 
pharmacokinetics of tepotinib have not been studied in patients with severe (Child Pugh Class C) 
hepatic impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology or repeated dose toxicity. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity 
No mutagenic or genotoxic effects of tepotinib were observed in in vitro and in vivo studies. However, 
the maximally feasible dose used in the in vivo micronucleus test in rats provided an estimated 
systemic exposure close to 3-fold lower than the clinical plasma exposure. The major circulating 
metabolite was shown to be non-mutagenic. 
Carcinogenicity 
No studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of tepotinib. 
Reproduction toxicity 
In a first oral embryo-foetal development study, pregnant rabbits received doses of 50, 150, and 
450 mg tepotinib hydrochloride hydrate per kg per day during organogenesis. The dose of 450 mg per 
kg (approximately 61% of the human exposure at the recommended dose of TEPMETKO 450 mg 
once daily based on AUC) was discontinued due to severe maternal toxic effects. In the 150 mg per kg 
group (approximately 40% of the human exposure at the 450 mg clinical dose), two animals aborted 
and one animal died prematurely. Mean foetal body weight was decreased at doses of ≥ 150 mg per kg 
per day. A dose-dependent increase of skeletal malformations, including malrotations of fore and/or 
hind paws with concomitant misshapen scapula and/or malpositioned clavicle and/or calcaneous 
and/or talus, were observed at 50 mg per kg (approximately 14% of the human exposure at the 450 mg 
clinical dose) and 150 mg per kg per day. 
In the second embryo-foetal development study, pregnant rabbits received oral doses of 0.5, 5, and 
25 mg tepotinib hydrochloride hydrate per kg per day during organogenesis. Two malformed foetuses 
with malrotated hind limbs were observed: one in the 5 mg per kg group (approximately 0.21% of the 
human exposure at the recommended dose of TEPMETKO 450 mg once daily based on AUC) and one 
in the 25 mg per kg group (approximately 1.3% of the human exposure at the 450 mg clinical dose), 
together with a generally increased incidence of foetuses with hind limb hyperextension. 
Fertility studies of tepotinib to evaluate the possible impairment of fertility have not been performed. 
No morphological changes in male or female reproductive organs were seen in the repeat-dose toxicity 
studies in rats and dogs, except for reduced secretion in seminal vesicles of male rats in a 4-week 
repeat-dose toxicity study at 450 mg per kg per day (comparable to human exposure at the 450 mg 
clinical dose). 
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk assessment studies have shown that tepotinib has the potential to be very persistent 
and toxic to the environment. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Mannitol 
Colloidal anhydrous silica 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Film-coating 
Hypromellose 
Lactose monohydrate 
Macrogol 
Triacetin 
Red iron oxide (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Aluminium/Polyvinyl chloride-polyethylene-polyvinylidene chloride-polyethylene-polyvinyl chloride 
(Al/PVC-PE-PVDC-PE-PVC) blister. Pack of 60 film-coated tablets. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
This medicinal product may pose a risk to the environment (see section 5.3). Any unused medicinal 
product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Europe B.V. 
Gustav Mahlerplein 102 
1082 MA Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/21/1596/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 16 February 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Merck Healthcare KGaA, Frankfurter Strasse 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
TEPMETKO 225 mg film-coated tablets 
tepotinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 225 mg tepotinib (as hydrochloride hydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
60 film-coated tablets. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Europe B.V. 
Gustav Mahlerplein 102 
1082 MA Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/21/1596/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
tepmetko 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
TEPMETKO 225 mg tablets 
tepotinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Europe B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
TEPMETKO 225 mg film-coated tablets 
tepotinib 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What TEPMETKO is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take TEPMETKO 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take TEPMETKO 
Possible side effects 
How to store TEPMETKO 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What TEPMETKO is and what it is used for 
TEPMETKO contains the active substance tepotinib. It belongs to a group of medicines called ‘protein 
kinase inhibitors’ which are used to treat cancer. 
TEPMETKO is used to treat adults with lung cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or 
cannot be removed by surgery. The medicine is given, when the cancer cells have an alteration in the 
MET (mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor) gene and previous treatment has not helped to stop 
your disease. 
An alteration in the MET gene can lead to production of an abnormal protein, which can then cause 
uncontrolled cell growth and cancer. By blocking the action of the abnormal protein, TEPMETKO 
may slow or stop the cancer from growing. It may also help to shrink the cancer. 
2.  What you need to know before you take TEPMETKO 
Do not take TEPMETKO 
• 
if you are allergic to tepotinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking this medicine if you have any questions. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lung or breathing problems 
TEPMETKO can sometimes cause sudden breathing difficulties that may be associated with a fever 
and cough. Tell your doctor right away if you develop any new or worsening symptoms (see section 4) 
as these may be signs of a serious lung condition (interstitial lung disease) which needs immediate 
attention. Your doctor may need to treat you with other medicines and interrupt your TEPMETKO 
treatment. 
Monitoring of liver function 
Your doctor will carry out blood tests to check how well your liver is working before you are treated 
with TEPMETKO, and as necessary during treatment. 
Monitoring of heart function 
Your doctor may carry out ECG tests as necessary during treatment to check whether TEPMETKO 
affects your heart rhythm. 
Contraception 
This medicine should not be used in pregnancy as it can harm the unborn baby. Men and women 
should use effective contraception during TEPMETKO treatment and for at least 1 week after the last 
dose. Your doctor will give you guidance on appropriate methods of contraception. See ‘Pregnancy’ 
below. 
Children and adolescents 
This medicine has not been studied in patients below the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and TEPMETKO 
Tell your doctor if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
TEPMETKO may affect how well the following medicines work and/or increase side effects of these 
medicines: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
dabigatran – used to prevent stroke or venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism 
digoxin – used to treat irregular heart beat or other heart problems 
aliskiren – used to treat high blood pressure 
everolimus – used to treat cancer 
sirolimus – used to prevent organ rejection in transplanted patients 
rosuvastatin – used to treat high blood fat levels 
methotrexate – used to treat inflammatory diseases or cancer 
topotecan – used to treat cancer 
metformin – used to treat diabetes 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Pregnancy 
Do not take TEPMETKO if you are pregnant or suspect you are pregnant, unless advised by your 
doctor. This medicine may harm the unborn baby. Pregnancy testing is recommended prior to starting 
treatment with TEPMETKO. 
Contraception in males and females 
If you are female and able to have children, you should use an effective method of contraception to 
avoid becoming pregnant during TEPMETKO treatment and for at least 1 week after the last dose. 
Talk to your doctor if you take hormonal contraceptives (e.g. ‘the pill’) as you will need a second 
method of contraception during this time. 
If you are male, you should use a barrier method of contraception to prevent your partner from getting 
pregnant, while you are treated with TEPMETKO and for at least 1 week after the last dose. 
Your doctor will give you guidance on appropriate methods of contraception. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether TEPMETKO may pass to the baby via breast milk. Stop breast-feeding your 
baby while you are treated with this medicine and for at least 1 week after the last dose. 
Driving and using machines 
TEPMETKO has no influence on the ability to drive or use machines. 
TEPMETKO contains lactose 
TEPMETKO contains 4.4 mg lactose monohydrate in each tablet. If you have been told by your doctor 
that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take TEPMETKO 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
The recommended dose is 2 tablets of TEPMETKO taken by mouth once daily. You may continue to 
take this medicine daily as long as you are benefitting from it and are not having intolerable side 
effects. In case of intolerable side effects, your doctor may advise you to reduce the dose to 1 tablet 
daily or interrupt the treatment for some days. 
Take the tablets with food or shortly after a meal, swallow them whole and do not chew. This will 
ensure that the whole dose enters your system. 
If you take more TEPMETKO than you should 
Experience with overdose of TEPMETKO is limited. Symptoms of overdose will most likely be 
similar to those mentioned under possible side effects (see section 4). If you have taken more 
TEPMETKO than you should, talk to your doctor. 
If you forget to take TEPMETKO 
If you miss a dose of TEPMETKO, take it as soon as you remember. If your next dose is due within 
8 hours, skip the missed dose and take your next dose at your regular time. Do not take a double dose 
to make up for a missed dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Lung or breathing problems 
Tell your doctor right away if you develop any new or worsening symptoms such as sudden breathing 
difficulties, cough or fever. These may be signs of a serious lung condition (interstitial lung disease) 
which needs immediate medical attention. This side effect is common (may affect up to 1 in 
10 people). 
Other side effects 
Talk to your doctor if you get any other side effects. These can include: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Swelling caused by fluid build-up in the body (oedema) 
Feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting) 
Diarrhoea 
Raised levels of creatinine in blood (a sign of possible kidney problems) 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Raised levels of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase or alkaline phosphatase in 
blood (a sign of possible liver problems) 
Raised levels of amylase or lipase in blood (a sign of possible digestive problems) 
Reduced levels of the protein albumin in blood 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Change in electrical activity of the heart seen on ECG (QT prolongation) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store TEPMETKO 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the blister after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What TEPMETKO contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is tepotinib. Each film-coated tablet contains 225 mg tepotinib (as 
hydrochloride hydrate). 
The other ingredients are mannitol, colloidal anhydrous silica, crospovidone, magnesium 
stearate and microcrystalline cellulose in the tablet core and hypromellose, lactose monohydrate 
(see section 2, ‘TEPMETKO contains lactose’), macrogol, triacetin, red iron oxide (E172) and 
titanium dioxide (E171) in the film-coating. 
What TEPMETKO looks like and contents of the pack 
TEPMETKO film-coated tablets are white-pink, oval, biconvex, approximately 18x9 mm in size and 
embossed with ‘M’ on one side and plain on the other side. Each pack contains 60 tablets in a 
transparent blister, which consists of a multilayer composite form foil and an aluminium lidding. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Merck Europe B.V. 
Gustav Mahlerplein 102 
1082 MA Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Merck Healthcare KGaA 
Frankfurter Strasse 250 
64293 Darmstadt 
Germany 
This leaflet was last revised in 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
28 
 
