Summary of the Risk Management Plan for TEPMETKO (tepotinib) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  TEPMETKO.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of TEPMETKO, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about TEPMETKO’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
TEPMETKO's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how TEPMETKO should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for TEPMETKO should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
TEPMETKO 's RMP. 
I 
The Medicine and What it is used for  
TEPMETKO as monotherapy is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harbouring alterations leading to mesenchymal-epithelial 
transition factor gene exon 14 (METex14) skipping, who require systemic therapy following 
prior treatment with immunotherapy and/or platinum-based chemotherapy. It contains tepotinib 
as the active substance and it is given by an oral route of administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  TEPMETKO’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
TEPMETKO’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/tepmetko 
II 
Risks  Associated  with  the  Medicine  and  Activities  to 
Minimise or Further Characterise the Risks  
Important  risks  of  TEPMETKO,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about TEPMETKO's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals. 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly. 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  -  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
 
In  addition  to  these measures, information  about adverse reactions is  collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment - so that immediate 
action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities.  
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important risks of TEPMETKO are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of TEPMETKO. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) 
QT interval prolongation 
Severe oedema 
Pleural effusion 
Severe hepatotoxicity 
Missing information 
None 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks  
Important identified risk: Interstitial lung disease 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to  the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measures 
ILD  is  considered  an  important  identified  risk  for  tepotinib  based  on  the 
frequency  and  the  clinical  course  of  the  ILD  cases  in  the  tepotinib 
development  program  and  based on  the serious  nature of  this event. The 
estimated ILD incidence in VISION Cohorts A+C is 8/291 (2.7%) patients. 
NSCLC and advanced age are known risk factors for ILD. Other risk factors 
are pre-existing ILD, previous radiation of the lung, smoking, and previous 
cancer medicines like taxanes or any immune checkpoint inhibitor and male 
sex.  
All VISION patients with ILD-like events identified at DCO had at least one 
of these risk factors. No clear pattern emerged in VISION with regard to the 
risk factors, except that all patients with ILD-like events were above 60 years 
old, which was in accordance with the median age of 72.0 years in the overall 
study population. 
An independent panel summarized that in some cases an exacerbation of 
pre-existing  chronic-fibrosing  idiopathic  interstitial  pneumonia  or  radiation 
fibrosis  was  observed  with  tepotinib,  which  is  consistent  with  what  is 
described in the literature. However, as per Sponsor opinion, the number of 
cases with ILD is too small to draw reliable conclusions on pre-existing ILD 
or fibrosis as specific risk factor for tepotinib induced ILD. 
Routine risk minimization measures 
•  SmPC Sections 4.2,4.4, and 4.8 
•  Advice in SmPC Section 4.2 to withhold or discontinue tepotinib if 
patients develop ILD-like reactions  
•  Recommendation in SmPC Section 4.4 to monitor for symptoms of 
ILD-like reactions, to investigate, to treat patients and to discontinue 
tepotinib if ILD is confirmed 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Interstitial lung disease 
•  Package leaflet Sections 2 and 4 
•  Medical prescription 
Additional risk minimization measures 
•  None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Important identified risk: QT interval prolongation 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measures 
Data on the possible effects of tepotinib exposure on the QTc interval have 
been  analysed  from  multiple  sources.  Non-clinical  findings  and  exposure-
QTcF analysis have not indicated a risk for clinically relevant effects on the 
QTc interval at the recommended dose of tepotinib.   At the recommended 
dose of 500 mg QD, no large mean increases in QTc (i.e., > 20 ms) were 
detected  in  patients  with  various  solid  tumour.  Very  few  patients  in  the 
VISION  study  reported  adverse  events  of  QTc  prolongation  or  single 
episodes of worst shift in QTcF from baseline of > 60 ms with no conclusive 
alternative  explanations 
these  QTc  effects.  All  patients  were 
asymptomatic,  and  the  findings  were  non-serious,  mainly  non-severe, 
isolated and had late onset. Noting the potentially serious consequences of 
QT prolongation the Applicant considers QT prolongation to be an important 
potential risk for tepotinib. 
for 
Risk factors include advanced age, congenital long QT syndrome and heart 
disease. 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
•  SmPC Sections 4.4 and 4.8  
•  Recommendation for monitoring (e.g., ECG, electrolytes) in patients at 
risk of developing QTc prolongation in SmPC Section 4.4. 
•  Package leaflet Sections 2 and 4 
•  Medical prescription 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Severe oedema 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
As severe and serious events of oedema have been observed with 
tepotinib, severe oedema has been classified as an Important identified risk 
in the RMP in order to further characterize these events. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Unknown 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.8 
•  Advice to reduce the dose, interrupt or discontinue tepotinib treatment if 
patients develop grade 3 events or higher in SmPC Section 4.2. 
Package leaflet Section 4 
•  Medical prescription 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Important potential risk: Pleural effusion 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Pleural effusion was observed in the tepotinib clinical development program 
(incidence of 13.1% in VISION Cohorts A + C). Although there is insufficient 
evidence 
treatment, 
considering  the  incidence  of  this  event  in  the  VISION  study,  and  the 
consequence  of  this  event  on  the  interpretation  of  disease  progression, 
pleural effusion has been classified as an important potential risk. 
to  confirm  a  causal  association  with 
tepotinib 
Malignant  pleural  effusion  is  a  common  complication  of  malignancies,  the 
most common cause being lung cancers. Malignant tumours can lead to the 
development of pleural effusion either due to the direct or indirect spread of 
disease. A large SEER registry study of 57,687 patients with NSCLC showed 
incidence of pleural effusion of 15.9% in patients receiving any anti-cancer 
therapy.  Malignant  pleural  effusion  is  the  most  common  cause  of  pleural 
effusion in lung, breast, and gynaecologic cancer. Hepatic hydrothorax is the 
main cause in HCC. 
Pleural  effusions  may  also  result  from  other  benign  conditions  such  as 
congestive heart failure, cirrhosis, or pulmonary embolism.  
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
•  Medical prescription 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
•  None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Severe hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Based on the repeat-dose toxicity studies in animals, the liver/hepatobiliary 
system was identified as target organ of toxicity. 
Overall, hepatotoxicity observed with tepotinib is reflected by 
asymptomatic, non-serious and non-severe elevation of the transaminases 
with no impact on treatment or benefit-risk balance. Few patients had 
severe hepatotoxicity reflected by very large increases in transaminases 
level or by meeting Hy’s law criteria. Most patients who met biological 
criteria of drug induced liver injury (DILI) came from the POOL and had an 
alternative explanation or were confounded by underlying hepatocellular 
carcinoma and additionally some patients had cirrhosis. One patient from 
the VISION study presented with a picture of acute hepatitis followed by 
liver failure which resulted in a fatal outcome. However, lack of relevant 
follow up information has not allowed a meaningful causality assessment of 
this case and to rule out a possible causal association. 
The Company´s position is that there is not enough evidence that tepotinib 
causes severe liver injury/hepatotoxicity, but adverse events suggestive of 
drug-induced liver injury including hepatic / liver failure and hepatitis (non-
infectious) are being closely monitored. In this regard severe hepatotoxicity 
has been classified as an important potential risk in the RMP. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Unknown 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
•  SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 
•  Recommendation in SmPC Section 4.4 to monitor for liver enzymes 
(ALT and AST), and bilirubin before and during treatment.  
•  Advice in SmPC Section 4.2 to reduce the dose, interrupt or discontinue 
tepotinib treatment if patients develop grade 3 events or higher (ALT 
and/or AST greater than 5 times upper limit of normal). 
•  Package leaflet Sections 2 and 4 
•  Medical prescription 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
II.C 
II.C.1 
Post-authorisation Development Plan  
Studies  which  are  Conditions  of 
Authorisation  
the  Marketing 
There are no other studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in the Post-authorisation Development Plan  
There are no other studies required for TEPMETKO.  
 
 
 
