EMA/CHMP/857461/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005960 
Teriflunomide Accord (teriflunomide) 
An overview of Teriflunomide Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Teriflunomide Accord and what is it used for? 
Teriflunomide Accord is a medicine used to treat patients from the age of 10 years with multiple 
sclerosis (MS), a disease in which inflammation attacks the protective covering (sheath) around nerves 
and damages the nerves themselves. 
Teriflunomide Accord is used in the type of MS known as relapsing-remitting MS, when the patient has 
flare-ups of symptoms (relapses) followed by periods of recovery (remissions). 
Teriflunomide Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Teriflunomide Accord contains the same 
active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU 
called Aubagio. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
Teriflunomide Accord contains the active substance teriflunomide. 
How is Teriflunomide Accord used? 
Teriflunomide Accord can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and 
supervised by a doctor who has experience in the management of MS. 
Teriflunomide Accord is available as tablets. The recommended dose for adults is 14 mg once a day. 
The dose for children depends on their body weight. For more information about using Teriflunomide 
Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Teriflunomide Accord work? 
In multiple sclerosis, the immune system (the body’s natural defences) incorrectly attacks the 
protective sheath around the nerves and the nerves themselves in the brain and spinal cord. The 
active substance in Teriflunomide Accord, teriflunomide, blocks an enzyme called ‘dihydroorotate 
dehydrogenase’ which is necessary for cells to multiply. The exact way teriflunomide works in MS is not 
known but it is thought to reduce the number of T-lymphocytes which form part of the immune system 
and are involved in the inflammation process. With fewer T-lymphocytes, there is less inflammation, 
helping to control the symptoms of MS. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Teriflunomide Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Aubagio, and do not need to be repeated for Teriflunomide 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Teriflunomide Accord. The 
company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Teriflunomide Accord? 
Because Teriflunomide Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Teriflunomide Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Teriflunomide 
Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Aubagio. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Aubagio, the benefits of Teriflunomide Accord outweigh the identified 
risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Teriflunomide Accord? 
The company that markets Teriflunomide Accord must ensure that all healthcare professionals who are 
expected to prescribe this medicine receive educational material containing important safety 
information, including the tests and monitoring that should be carried out in patients before and after 
starting treatment. The company must also provide patient education cards with key safety information 
for patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Teriflunomide Accord have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Teriflunomide Accord are continuously monitored. Suspected 
side effects reported with Teriflunomide Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken 
to protect patients. 
Other information about Teriflunomide Accord  
Teriflunomide Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 09 November 
2022. 
Further information on Teriflunomide Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/teriflunomide-accord. Information on the reference medicine 
can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2022. 
Teriflunomide Accord (teriflunomide)  
EMA/CHMP/857461/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
