Summary of risk management plan for 
“Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection 
in pre-filled pen“  
(teriparatide) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for “Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters 
solution  for  injection  in  pre-filled  pen“.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  “Teriparatide  SUN  20 
micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen“, how these risks can be minimised, and 
how more information will be obtained about “Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for 
injection in pre-filled pen“risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
“Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen“summary of product 
characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and 
patients  on  how  “Teriparatide  SUN  20  micrograms/80  microliters  solution  for  injection  in  pre-filled 
pen“should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for “Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-
filled  pen“  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the 
evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Teriparatide SUN 20 
micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
“Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen” is indicated in adults 
for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture (see 
SmPC for the full indication) and it is given once daily by injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection) 
in the thigh or abdomen. 
Further information about the evaluation of “Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for 
injection in pre-filled pen”’s benefits can be found in “Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters 
solution for injection in pre-filled pen”’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/summaries-opinion/teriparatide-sun. 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks  
Important risks of “Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen“, 
together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about 
“Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen“‘s risks, are outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:  
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package leaflet and 
SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;  
• Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;  
Page 1 of 3 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the medicine is 
used correctly;  
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or  without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks.  
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If  important information that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of “Teriparatide  SUN  20  micrograms/80  microliters 
solution for injection in pre-filled pen“is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of “Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen“ 
are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the 
medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of “Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for 
injection in pre-filled pen“. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product 
FORSTEO 20 micrograms/80 microliters Solution for injection in pre-filled pen, MAH: Eli Lilly Nederland 
B.V. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
“Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen“.  
Page 2 of 3 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for “Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in 
pre-filled pen“.  
Page 3 of 3 
 
