ANNEX I 
       SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teriflunomide Mylan 14 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 14 mg of teriflunomide. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each tablet contains 85.4 mg of lactose (as monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet) 
Pale blue to pastel blue coloured, round, biconvex, film-coated tablets debossed with ‘T’ on one side 
and ‘1’ on the other side, approximately 7.6 mm in diameter.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Teriflunomide Mylan is indicated for the treatment of adult patients and paediatric patients aged 
10 years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) (please refer to section 5.1 for 
important information on the population for which efficacy has been established). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
The treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the management of 
multiple sclerosis. 
Posology 
Adults 
In adults, the recommended dose of teriflunomide is 14 mg once daily. 
Paediatric population (10 years and older)  
In paediatric patients (10 years of age and above), the recommended dose is dependent on body 
weight: 
- 
- 
Paediatric patients with body weight > 40 kg: 14 mg once daily.  
Paediatric patients with body weight ≤ 40 kg: 7 mg once daily.  
Paediatric patients who reach a stable body weight above 40 kg should be switched to 14 mg once 
daily.   
Teriflunomide Mylan is only available as 14 mg film-coated tablets. Thus, it is not possible to 
administer Teriflunomide Mylan to patients that require less than a full 14 mg dose. If an alternate 
dose is required, other teriflunomide products offering such an option should be used. 
Special populations 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Elderly population 
Teriflunomide  should be used with caution in patients aged 65 years and over due to insufficient data 
on safety and efficacy. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild, moderate or severe renal impairment not 
undergoing dialysis. 
Patients with severe renal impairment undergoing dialysis were not evaluated. Teriflunomide is 
contraindicated in this population (see section 4.3). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment. 
Teriflunomide is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Paediatric population (less than 10 years of age) 
The safety and efficacy of teriflunomide in children aged below 10 years have not been established. 
No data are available. 
Method of administration  
The film-coated tablets are for oral use. The tablets should be swallowed whole with some water. They 
can be taken with or without food. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). 
Pregnant women, or women of childbearing potential who are not using reliable contraception during 
treatment with teriflunomide and thereafter as long as its plasma levels are above 0.02 mg/l (see 
section 4.6). Pregnancy must be excluded before start of treatment (see section 4.6). 
Breast-feeding women (see section 4.6). 
Patients with severe immunodeficiency states, e.g. acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
Patients with significantly impaired bone marrow function or significant anaemia, leucopenia, 
neutropenia or thrombocytopenia. 
Patients with severe active infection until resolution (see section 4.4). 
Patients with severe renal impairment undergoing dialysis, because insufficient clinical experience is 
available in this patient group. 
Patients with severe hypoproteinaemia, e.g. in nephrotic syndrome. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Monitoring 
Before treatment 
Before starting treatment with teriflunomide the following should be assessed: 
 
 
 
Blood pressure 
Alanine aminotransferase/serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (ALT/SGPT) 
Complete blood cell count including differential white blood cell and platelet count. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During treatment 
During treatment with teriflunomide the following should be monitored: 
 
Check periodically 
Blood pressure  
o 
Alanine aminotransferase/serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (ALT/SGPT) 
o 
 
Liver enzymes should be assessed at least every four weeks during the first 6 months of 
treatment, and regularly thereafter. 
Consider additional monitoring when Teriflunomide Mylan is given in patients with pre-
existing liver disorders, given with other potentially hepatotoxic drugs or as indicated by 
clinical signs and symptoms such as unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, 
fatigue, anorexia, or jaundice and/or dark urine. Liver enzymes should be assessed every 
two weeks during the first 6 months of treatment, and at least every 8 weeks thereafter for 
at least 2 years from initiation of treatment. 
For ALT (SGPT) elevations between 2- and 3-fold the upper limit of normal, monitoring 
must be performed weekly. 
o 
o 
 
Complete blood cell counts should be performed based on clinical signs and symptoms (e.g. 
infections) during treatment. 
Accelerated elimination procedure 
Teriflunomide is eliminated slowly from the plasma. Without an accelerated elimination procedure, it 
takes an average of 8 months to reach plasma concentrations less than 0.02 mg/l, although due to 
individual variation in substance clearance it may take up to 2 years. An accelerated elimination 
procedure can be used at any time after discontinuation of teriflunomide (see sections 4.6 and 5.2 for 
procedural details). 
Hepatic effects 
Elevations of liver enzymes have been observed in patients receiving teriflunomide (see section 4.8). 
These elevations occurred mostly within the first 6 months of treatment.  
Cases of drug-induced liver injury (DILI) have been observed during treatment with teriflunomide, 
sometimes life-threatening. Most cases of DILI occurred with time to onset of several weeks or several 
months after treatment initiation of teriflunomide, but DILI can also occur with prolonged use. 
The risk for liver enzyme increases and DILI with teriflunomide might be higher in patients with pre-
existing liver disorder, concomitant treatment with other hepatotoxic drugs, and/or consumption of 
substantial quantities of alcohol. Patients should therefore be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of liver injury. 
Teriflunomide therapy should be discontinued and accelerated elimination procedure considered if 
liver injury is suspected. If elevated liver enzymes (greater than 3-fold ULN) are confirmed, 
teriflunomide therapy should be discontinued.  
In case of treatment discontinuation, liver tests should be pursued until normalisation of transaminase 
levels. 
Hypoproteinaemia 
Since teriflunomide is highly protein bound and as the binding is dependent upon the concentrations of 
albumin, unbound plasma teriflunomide concentrations are expected to be increased in patients with 
hypoproteinaemia, e.g. in nephrotic syndrome. Teriflunomide should not be used in patients with 
conditions of severe hypoproteinaemia. 
Blood pressure 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elevation of blood pressure may occur during treatment with teriflunomide (see section 4.8). Blood 
pressure must be checked before the start of teriflunomide treatment and periodically thereafter. Blood 
pressure elevation should be appropriately managed before and during treatment with teriflunomide. 
Infections 
Initiation of treatment with teriflunomide should be delayed in patients with severe active infection 
until resolution. 
In placebo-controlled studies, no increase in serious infections was observed with teriflunomide (see 
section 4.8). However, based on the immunomodulatory effect of teriflunomide, if a patient develops a 
serious infection, suspending treatment with teriflunomide should be considered and the benefits and 
risks should be reassessed prior to re-initiation of therapy. Due to the prolonged half-life, accelerated 
elimination with cholestyramine or charcoal may be considered. 
Patients receiving teriflunomide should be instructed to report symptoms of infections to a physician. 
Patients with active acute or chronic infections should not start treatment with teriflunomide until the 
infection(s) is resolved. 
The safety of teriflunomide in individuals with latent tuberculosis infection is unknown, as 
tuberculosis screening was not systematically performed in clinical studies. Patients who tested 
positive in tuberculosis screening should be treated by standard medical practice prior to therapy. 
Respiratory reactions 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) as well as cases of pulmonary hypertension have been reported with 
teriflunomide in the post-marketing setting. 
The risk might be increased in patients with a history of ILD. 
ILD may occur acutely at any time during therapy with a variable clinical presentation. 
ILD may be fatal. New onset or worsening pulmonary symptoms, such as persistent cough and 
dyspnoea, may be a reason for discontinuation of the therapy and for further investigation, as 
appropriate. If discontinuation of the medicinal product is necessary, initiation of an accelerated 
elimination procedure should be considered. 
Haematological effects 
A mean decrease less than 15% from baseline affecting white blood cell count has been observed (see 
section 4.8). As a precaution, a recent complete blood cell count, including differential white blood 
cell count and platelets, should be available before the initiation of treatment and the complete blood 
cell count should be assessed during therapy as indicated by clinical signs and symptoms (e.g., 
infections). 
In patients with pre-existing anaemia, leucopenia, and /or thrombocytopenia as well as in patients with 
impaired bone marrow function or those at risk of bone marrow suppression, the risk of 
haematological disorders is increased. If such effects occur, the accelerated elimination procedure (see 
above) to reduce plasma levels of teriflunomide should be considered.  
In cases of severe haematological reactions, including pancytopenia, teriflunomide and any 
concomitant myelosuppressive treatment must be discontinued and a teriflunomide accelerated 
elimination procedure should be considered. 
Skin reactions 
Cases of serious skin reactions, sometimes fatal including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) 
have been reported with teriflunomide. 
If skin and /or mucosal reactions (ulcerative stomatitis) are observed which raise the suspicion of 
severe generalised major skin reactions (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis-
Lyell’s syndrome or drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms), teriflunomide and any 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
other possibly associated treatment must be discontinued, and an accelerated procedure initiated 
immediately. In such cases patients should not be re-exposed to teriflunomide (see section 4.3). 
New onset of psoriasis (including pustular psoriasis) and worsening of pre-existing psoriasis have 
been reported during the use of teriflunomide. Treatment withdrawal and initiation of an accelerated 
elimination procedure may be considered taking into account patient’s disease and medical history.  
Peripheral neuropathy 
Cases of peripheral neuropathy have been reported in patients receiving teriflunomide (see section 
4.8). Most patients improved after discontinuation of teriflunomide. However, there was a wide 
variability in final outcome, i.e. in some patients the neuropathy resolved and some patients had 
persistent symptoms. If a patient taking teriflunomide develops a confirmed peripheral neuropathy, 
discontinuing teriflunomide therapy and performing the accelerated elimination procedure should be 
considered. 
Vaccination 
Two clinical studies have shown that vaccinations to inactivated neoantigen (first vaccination) or 
recall antigen (re-exposure) were safe and effective during teriflunomide treatment. The use of live 
attenuated vaccines may carry a risk of infections and should therefore be avoided. 
Immunosuppressive or immunomodulating therapies 
As leflunomide is the parent compound of teriflunomide, co-administration of teriflunomide with 
leflunomide is not recommended. Co-administration with antineoplastic or immunosuppressive 
therapies used for treatment of MS has not been evaluated. Safety studies, in which teriflunomide was 
concomitantly administered with interferon beta or with glatiramer acetate for up to one year did not 
reveal any specific safety concerns, but a higher adverse reaction rate as compared to teriflunomide 
monotherapy was observed. The long-term safety of these combinations in the treatment of multiple 
sclerosis has not been established. 
Switching to or from teriflunomide 
Based on the clinical data related to concomitant administration of teriflunomide with interferon beta 
or with glatiramer acetate, no waiting period is required when initiating teriflunomide after interferon 
beta or glatiramer acetate or when starting interferon beta or glatiramer acetate, after teriflunomide. 
Due to the long half-life of natalizumab, concomitant exposure, and thus concomitant immune effects, 
could occur for up to 2-3 months following discontinuation of natalizumab if teriflunomide was 
immediately started. Therefore, caution is required when switching patients from natalizumab to 
teriflunomide. 
Based on the half-life of fingolimod, a 6-week interval without therapy is needed for clearance from 
the circulation and a 1 to 2-month period is needed for lymphocytes to return to normal range 
following discontinuation of fingolimod. Starting teriflunomide during this interval will result in 
concomitant exposure to fingolimod. This may lead to an additive effect on the immune system and 
caution is, therefore, indicated. 
In MS patients, the median t1/2z was approximately 19 days after repeated doses of 14 mg. If a decision 
is made to stop treatment with teriflunomide, during the interval of 5 half-lives (approximately 
3.5 months although may be longer in some patients), starting other therapies will result in 
concomitant exposure to teriflunomide. This may lead to an additive effect on the immune system and 
caution is, therefore, indicated. 
Interference with determination of ionised calcium levels 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The measurement of ionised calcium levels might show falsely decreased values under treatment with 
leflunomide and/or teriflunomide (the active metabolite of leflunomide) depending on the type of 
ionised calcium analyser used (e.g. blood gas analyser). Therefore, the plausibility of observed 
decreased ionised calcium levels needs to be questioned in patients under treatment with leflunomide 
or teriflunomide. In case of doubtful measurements, it is recommended to determine the total albumin 
adjusted serum calcium concentration. 
Paediatric population  
Pancreatitis  
In the paediatric clinical trial, cases of pancreatitis, some acute, have been observed in patients 
receiving teriflunomide (see section 4.8). Clinical symptoms included abdominal pain, nausea and/or 
vomiting. Serum amylase and lipase were elevated in these patients.  The time to onset ranged from a 
few months up to three years. Patients should be informed of the characteristic symptoms of 
pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, pancreatic enzymes and related laboratory parameters should 
be obtained. If pancreatitis is confirmed, teriflunomide should be discontinued and an accelerated 
elimination procedure should be initiated (see section 5.2). 
Excipients with known effect 
Lactose 
Teriflunomide Mylan tablets contain lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption, should not take this medicinal 
product. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacokinetic interactions of other substances on teriflunomide 
The primary biotransformation pathway for teriflunomide is hydrolysis, with oxidation being a minor 
pathway. 
Potent cytochrome P450 (CYP) and transporter inducers 
Co-administration of repeated doses (600 mg once daily for 22 days) of rifampicin (a CYP2B6, 2C8, 
2C9, 2C19, 3A inducer), as well as an inducer of the efflux transporters P-glycoprotein [P-gp] and 
breast cancer resistant protein [BCRP] with teriflunomide (70 mg single dose) resulted in an 
approximately 40% decrease in teriflunomide exposure. Rifampicin and other known potent CYP and 
transporter inducers such as carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin and St John’s Wort should be 
used with caution during the treatment with teriflunomide. 
Cholestyramine or activated charcoal 
It is recommended that patients receiving teriflunomide are not treated with cholestyramine or 
activated charcoal because this leads to a rapid and significant decrease in plasma concentration unless 
an accelerated elimination is desired. The mechanism is thought to be by interruption of enterohepatic 
recycling and/or gastrointestinal dialysis of teriflunomide. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions of teriflunomide on other substances 
Effect of teriflunomide on CYP2C8 substrate: repaglinide 
There was an increase in mean repaglinide Cmax and AUC (1.7- and 2.4-fold, respectively), following 
repeated doses of teriflunomide, suggesting that teriflunomide is an inhibitor of CYP2C8 in vivo. 
Therefore, medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C8, such as repaglinide, paclitaxel, pioglitazone 
or rosiglitazone, should be used with caution during treatment with teriflunomide. 
7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of teriflunomide on oral contraceptives: 0.03 mg ethinylestradiol and 0.15 mg levonorgestrel 
There was an increase in mean ethinylestradiol Cmax and AUC0-24 (1.58- and 1.54-fold, respectively) 
and levonorgestrel Cmax and AUC0-24 (1.33- and 1.41-fold, respectively) following repeated doses of 
teriflunomide. While this interaction of teriflunomide is not expected to adversely impact the efficacy 
of oral contraceptives, it should be considered when selecting or adjusting oral contraceptive treatment 
used in combination with teriflunomide. 
Effect of teriflunomide on CYP1A2 substrate: caffeine 
Repeated doses of teriflunomide decreased mean Cmax and AUC of caffeine (CYP1A2 substrate) by 
18% and 55%, respectively, suggesting that teriflunomide may be a weak inducer of CYP1A2 in vivo. 
Therefore, medicinal products metabolised by CYP1A2 (such as duloxetine, alosetron, theophylline 
and tizanidine) should be used with caution during treatment with teriflunomide, as it could lead to the 
reduction of the efficacy of these medicinal products. 
Effect of teriflunomide on warfarin 
Repeated doses of teriflunomide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, indicating that 
teriflunomide is not an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP2C9. However, a 25% decrease in peak 
international normalised ratio (INR) was observed when teriflunomide was co-administered with 
warfarin as compared with warfarin alone. Therefore, when warfarin is co-administered with 
teriflunomide, close INR follow-up and monitoring is recommended. 
Effect of teriflunomide on organic anion transporter 3 (OAT3) substrates 
There was an increase in mean cefaclor Cmax and AUC (1.43- and 1.54-fold, respectively), following 
repeated doses of teriflunomide, suggesting that teriflunomide is an inhibitor of OAT3 in vivo. 
Therefore, when teriflunomide is co-administered with substrates of OAT3, such as cefaclor, 
benzylpenicillin, ciprofloxacin, indometacin, ketoprofen, furosemide, cimetidine, methotrexate, 
zidovudine, caution is recommended. 
Effect of teriflunomide on BCRP and /or organic anion transporting polypeptide B1 and B3 
(OATP1B1/B3) substrates 
There was an increase in mean rosuvastatin Cmax and AUC (2.65- and 2.51-fold, respectively), 
following repeated doses of teriflunomide. However, there was no apparent impact of this increase in 
plasma rosuvastatin exposure on the HMG-CoA reductase activity. For rosuvastatin, a dose reduction 
by 50% is recommended for co-administration with teriflunomide. For other substrates of BCRP (e.g., 
methotrexate, topotecan, sulfasalazine, daunorubicin, doxorubicin) and the OATP family especially 
HMG-Co reductase inhibitors (e.g., simvastatin, atorvastatin, pravastatin, methotrexate, nateglinide, 
repaglinide, rifampicin) concomitant administration of teriflunomide should also be undertaken with 
caution. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of excessive exposure to the 
medicinal products and reduction of the dose of these medicinal products should be considered. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Use in males 
The risk of male-mediated embryo-foetal toxicity through teriflunomide treatment is considered low 
(see section 5.3). 
Pregnancy 
There are limited amount of data from the use of teriflunomide in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Teriflunomide may cause serious birth defects when administered during pregnancy. Teriflunomide is 
contraindicated in pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment and after 
treatment as long as teriflunomide plasma concentration is above 0.02 mg/l. During this period women 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should discuss any plans to stop or change contraception with the treating physician. Female children 
and/or parents/caregivers of female children should be informed about the need to contact the treating 
physician once the female child under teriflunomide treatment experiences menses. Counselling 
should be provided to the new patients of child-bearing potential about contraception and the potential 
risk to the foetus. Referral to a gynaecologist should be considered. 
The patient must be advised that if there is any delay in onset of menses or any other reason to suspect 
pregnancy, they must discontinue teriflunomide and notify the physician immediately for pregnancy 
testing, and if positive, the physician and patient must discuss the risk to the pregnancy. It is possible 
that rapidly lowering the blood level of teriflunomide, by instituting the accelerated elimination 
procedure described below, at the first delay of menses, may decrease the risk to the foetus. 
For women receiving teriflunomide treatment, who wish to become pregnant, the medicinal product 
should be stopped and an accelerated elimination procedure is recommended in order to more rapidly 
achieve concentration below 0.02 mg/l (see below). 
If an accelerated elimination procedure is not used, teriflunomide plasma levels can be expected to be 
above 0.02 mg/l for an average of 8 months, however, in some patients it may take up to 2 years to 
reach plasma concentration below 0.02 mg/l. Therefore, teriflunomide plasma concentrations should 
be measured before a woman begins to attempt to become pregnant. Once the teriflunomide plasma 
concentration is determined to be below 0.02 mg/l, the plasma concentration must be determined again 
after an interval of at least 14 days. If both plasma concentrations are below 0.02 mg/l, no risk to the 
foetus is to be expected. 
For further information on the sample testing please contact the Marketing Authorisation Holder or its 
local representative (see section 7). 
Accelerated elimination procedure 
After stopping treatment with teriflunomide: 
 
cholestyramine 8 g is administered 3 times daily for a period of 11 days, or cholestyramine 4 g 
three times a day can be used, if cholestyramine 8 g three times a day is not well tolerated 
alternatively, 50 g of activated powdered charcoal is administered every 12 hours for a period of 
11 days. 
 
However, also following either of the accelerated elimination procedures, verification by 2 separate 
tests at an interval of at least 14 days and a waiting period of one-and-a-half months between the first 
occurrence of a plasma concentration below 0.02 mg/l and fertilisation is required. 
Both cholestyramine and activated powdered charcoal may influence the absorption of oestrogens and 
progestogens such that reliable contraception with oral contraceptives may not be guaranteed during 
the accelerated elimination procedure with cholestyramine or activated powdered charcoal. Use of 
alternative contraceptive methods is recommended. 
Breast-feeding 
Animal studies have shown excretion of teriflunomide in milk. Teriflunomide is contraindicated 
during breast-feeding (see section 4.3). 
Fertility 
Results of studies in animals have not shown an effect on fertility (see section 5.3). Although human 
data are lacking, no effect on male and female fertility is anticipated. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Teriflunomide has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
In the case of adverse reactions such as dizziness, which has been reported with leflunomide, the 
parent compound, the patient’s ability to concentrate and to react properly may be impaired. In such 
cases, patients should refrain from driving and using machines. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions in the teriflunomide treated (7 mg and 14 mg) patients 
were: headache (17.8%, 15.7%), diarrhoea (13.1%, 13.6%) increased ALT (13%, 15%), nausea (8%, 
10.7%), and alopecia (9.8%, 13.5%). In general, headache, diarrhoea, nausea and alopecia, were mild 
to moderate, transient and infrequently led to treatment discontinuation. 
Teriflunomide is the main metabolite of leflunomide. The safety profile of leflunomide in patients 
suffering from rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis may be pertinent when prescribing 
teriflunomide in MS patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Teriflunomide was evaluated in a total of 2,267 patients exposed to teriflunomide (1,155 on 
teriflunomide 7 mg and 1,112 on teriflunomide 14 mg) once daily for a median duration of about 672 
days in four placebo-controlled studies (1,045 and 1,002 patients for teriflunomide 7 mg and 14 mg, 
respectively) and one active comparator study (110 patients in each of the teriflunomide treatment 
groups) in adult patients with relapsing forms of MS (Relapsing Multiple Sclerosis, RMS). 
Listed below are the adverse reactions reported with teriflunomide in placebo-controlled studies, 
reported for teriflunomide 7 mg or 14 mg from clinical studies in adult patients. Frequencies were 
defined using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000); not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
ranked in order of decreasing seriousness. 
System organ 
class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Very 
rare 
Severe infections 
including sepsisa 
Mild 
thrombocytopenia 
(platelets 
< 100 G/l)
Hyper-sensitivity 
reactions 
(immediate or 
delayed) 
including 
anaphylaxis and 
angioedema
Influenza, 
Upper respiratory 
tract infection, 
Urinary tract 
infection, 
Bronchitis, 
Sinusitis, 
Pharyngitis, 
Cystitis, 
Gastroenteritis 
viral, 
Oral herpes, 
Tooth infection, 
Laryngitis, 
Tinea pedis
Neutropeniab, 
Anaemia 
Mild allergic 
reactions 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Very 
rare 
Dyslipidaemia 
Hyperaesthesia, 
Neuralgia, 
Peripheral 
neuropathy
Interstitial lung 
disease 
Stomatitis, 
Colitis 
Nail disorders, 
Psoriasis 
(including 
pustular)a,b, 
Severe skin 
reactionsa
Pulmonary 
hypertension 
Acute 
hepatitis 
Drug-induced 
liver injury 
(DILI) 
System organ 
class 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders  
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Headache 
Diarrhoea, 
Nausea 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Alanine 
aminotransferase 
(ALT) increaseb 
Anxiety 
Paraesthesia, 
Sciatica, 
Carpal tunnel 
syndrome
Palpitations 
Hypertensionb
Pancreatitisb,c, 
Abdominal pain 
upper, 
Vomiting, 
Toothache
Gamma-
glutamyltransferase 
(GGT) increaseb,  
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increaseb  
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Alopecia 
Rash, 
Acne 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Musculoskeletal 
pain, 
Myalgia,  
Arthralgia
Pollakiuria 
Menorrhagia 
Pain, Astheniaa 
Weight decrease, 
Neutrophil count 
decreaseb,
11 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ 
class 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Very 
rare 
White blood cell 
count decreaseb, 
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased 
Post-traumatic 
pain 
Injury, 
poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
a: please refer to the detailed description section 
b: see section 4.4 
c: frequency is ‘common’ in children based on a controlled clinical study in paediatrics; frequency is 
‘uncommon’ in adults 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Alopecia 
Alopecia was reported as hair thinning, decreased hair density, hair loss, associated or not with hair 
texture change, in 13.9% of patients treated with 14 mg teriflunomide versus 5.1% in patients treated 
with placebo. Most cases were described as diffuse or generalised over the scalp (no complete hair 
loss reported) and occurred most often during the first 6 months and with resolution in 121 of 139 
(87.1%) patients treated with teriflunomide 14 mg. Discontinuation because of alopecia was 1.3% in 
the teriflunomide 14 mg group, versus 0.1% in the placebo group. 
Hepatic effects 
During placebo-controlled studies in adult patients the following was detected: 
ALT increase (based on laboratory data) according to baseline status – Safety population in 
placebo-controlled studies 
> 3 ULN 
> 5 ULN 
> 10 ULN 
> 20 ULN 
ALT > 3 ULN and 
TBILI > 2 ULN 
Placebo  
(N=997) 
66/994 (6.6%)
37/994 (3.7%) 
16/994 (1.6%) 
4/994 (0.4%) 
5/994 (0.5%) 
Teriflunomide 14 mg 
(N=1002) 
80/999 (8.0%) 
31/999 (3.1%) 
9/999 (0.9%) 
3/999 (0.3%) 
3/999 (0.3%) 
Mild increases in transaminase, ALT below or equal to 3-fold ULN were more frequently seen in 
teriflunomide-treated groups as compared to placebo. The frequency of elevations above 3-fold ULN 
and higher was balanced across treatment groups. These elevations in transaminase occurred mostly 
within the first 6 months of treatment and were reversible after treatment cessation. The recovery time 
varied between months and years. 
Blood pressure effects 
In placebo-controlled studies in adult patients the following was established: 
- 
systolic blood pressure was > 140 mm Hg in 19.9% of patients receiving 14 mg/day 
teriflunomide as compared to 15.5% receiving placebo; 
systolic blood pressure was > 160 mm Hg in 3.8% of patients receiving 14 mg/day 
teriflunomide as compared to 2.0% receiving placebo; 
diastolic blood pressure was > 90 mm Hg in 21.4% of patients receiving 14 mg/day 
teriflunomide as compared to 13.6% receiving placebo. 
- 
- 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
In placebo-controlled studies in adult patients, no increase in serious infections was observed with 
teriflunomide 14 mg (2.7%) as compared to placebo (2.2%). Serious opportunistic infections occurred 
in 0.2% of each group. Severe infections including sepsis, sometimes fatal have been reported post-
marketing. 
Haematological effects 
A mean decrease affecting white blood cell (WBC) count (< 15% from baseline levels, mainly 
neutrophil and lymphocytes decrease) was observed in placebo-controlled trials with teriflunomide in 
adult patients, although a greater decrease was observed in some patients. The decrease in mean count 
from baseline occurred during the first 6 weeks then stabilised over time while on-treatment but at 
decreased levels (less than a 15% decrease from baseline). The effect on red blood cell (RBC) (< 2%) 
and platelet counts (< 10%) was less pronounced. 
Peripheral neuropathy 
In placebo-controlled studies in adult patients, peripheral neuropathy, including both polyneuropathy 
and mononeuropathy (e.g., carpal tunnel syndrome), was reported more frequently in patients taking 
teriflunomide than in patients taking placebo. In the pivotal, placebo-controlled studies, the incidence 
of peripheral neuropathy confirmed by nerve conduction studies was 1.9% (17 patients out of 898) on 
14 mg of teriflunomide, compared with 0.4% (4 patients out of 898) on placebo. Treatment was 
discontinued in 5 patients with peripheral neuropathy on teriflunomide 14 mg. Recovery following 
treatment discontinuation was reported in 4 of these patients. 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl. cysts and polyps) 
There does not appear to be an increased risk of malignancy with teriflunomide in the clinical trial 
experience. The risk of malignancy, particularly lymphoproliferative disorders, is increased with use 
of some other agents that affect the immune system (class effect). 
Severe skin reactions 
Cases of severe skin reactions have been reported with teriflunomide post-marketing (see section 4.4). 
Asthenia 
In placebo-controlled studies in adult patients, frequencies for asthenia were 2.0%, 1.6% and 2.2% in 
the placebo, teriflunomide 7 mg and teriflunomide 14 mg group, respectively.  
Psoriasis 
In placebo-controlled studies, frequencies for psoriasis were 0.3%, 0.3% and 0.4% in the placebo, 
teriflunomide 7 mg and teriflunomide 14 mg group, respectively. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Pancreatitis has been reported infrequently in the post-marketing setting with teriflunomide in adults, 
including cases of necrotising pancreatitis and pancreatic pseudocyst. Pancreatic events may occur at 
any time during treatment with teriflunomide, which may lead to hospitalisation and/or require 
corrective treatment. 
Paediatric population 
The observed safety profile in paediatric patients (from 10 to 17 years-old) receiving teriflunomide 
daily was overall similar to that seen in adult patients. However, in the paediatric study (166 patients: 
109 in the teriflunomide group and 57 in the placebo group), cases of pancreatitis were reported in 
1.8% (2/109) of the teriflunomide-treated patients compared to none in the placebo group, in the 
double-blind phase. One of these events led to hospitalisation and required corrective treatment. In 
paediatric patients treated with teriflunomide in the open-label phase of the study, 2 additional cases of 
pancreatitis (one was reported as a serious event, the other was a nonserious event of mild intensity) 
and one case of serious acute pancreatitis (with pseudo-papilloma), were reported. In two of these 
3 patients, pancreatitis led to hospitalisation. Clinical symptoms included abdominal pain, nausea and/ 
or vomiting and serum amylase and lipase were elevated in these patients. All patients recovered after 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
treatment discontinuation and accelerated elimination procedure (see section 4.4) and corrective 
treatment. 
The following adverse reactions were more frequently reported in the paediatric population than in the 
adult 
population: 
 
Alopecia was reported in 22.0% of patients treated with teriflunomide versus 12.3% in patients 
treated with placebo. 
Infections were reported in 66.1% of patients treated with teriflunomide versus 45.6% in 
patients treated with placebo. Among them, nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract 
infections were more frequently reported with teriflunomide. 
CPK increase was reported in 5.5% of patients treated with teriflunomide versus 0% in patients 
treated with placebo. The majority of the cases were associated with documented physical 
exercise. 
Paraesthesia was reported in 11.0% of patients treated with teriflunomide versus 1.8% in 
patients treated with placebo. 
Abdominal pain was reported in 11.0% of patients treated with teriflunomide versus 1.8% in 
patients treated with placebo. 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
There is no experience regarding teriflunomide overdose or intoxication in humans. Teriflunomide 
70 mg daily was administered up to 14 days in healthy subjects. The adverse reactions were consistent 
with the safety profile for teriflunomide in MS patients. 
Management 
In the event of relevant overdose or toxicity, cholestyramine or activated charcoal is recommended to 
accelerate elimination. The recommended elimination procedure is cholestyramine 8 g three times a 
day for 11 days. If this is not well tolerated, cholestyramine 4 g three times a day for 11 days can be 
used. Alternatively, when cholestyramine is not available, activated charcoal 50 g twice a day for 
11 days may also be used. In addition, if required for tolerability reasons, administration of 
cholestyramine or activated charcoal does not need to occur on consecutive days (see section 5.2). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Selective immunosuppressants, ATC Code: 
L04AA31 
Mechanism of action 
Teriflunomide is an immunomodulatory agent with anti-inflammatory properties that selectively and 
reversibly inhibits the mitochondrial enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHO-DH), which 
functionally connects with the respiratory chain. As a consequence of the inhibition, teriflunomide 
generally reduces the proliferation of rapidly dividing cells that depend on de novo synthesis of 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pyrimidine to expand. The exact mechanism by which teriflunomide exerts its therapeutic effect in MS 
is not fully understood, but this is mediated by a reduced number of lymphocytes. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Immune system 
Effects on immune cell numbers in the blood: In the placebo-controlled studies, teriflunomide 14 mg 
once a day led to a mild mean reduction in lymphocyte count, of less than 0.3 x 109/l, which occurred 
over the first 3 months of treatment and levels were maintained until the end of the treatment. 
Potential to prolong the QT interval 
In a placebo-controlled thorough QT study performed in healthy subjects, teriflunomide at mean 
steady-state concentrations did not show any potential for prolonging the QTcF interval compared 
with placebo: the largest time matched mean difference between teriflunomide and placebo was 
3.45 ms with the upper bound of the 90% CI being 6.45 ms. 
Effect on renal tubular functions 
In the placebo-controlled studies, mean decreases in serum uric acid at a range of 20 to 30% were 
observed in patients treated with teriflunomide compared to placebo. Mean decrease in serum 
phosphorus was around 10% in the teriflunomide group compared to placebo. These effects are 
considered to be related to increase in renal tubular excretion and not related to changes in glomerular 
functions. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of teriflunomide was demonstrated in two placebo-controlled studies, the TEMSO and 
the TOWER study, that evaluated once daily doses of teriflunomide 7 mg and 14 mg in adult patients 
with RMS. 
A total of 1,088 patients with RMS were randomised in TEMSO to receive 7 mg (n=366) or 14 mg 
(n=359) of teriflunomide or placebo (n= 363) for 108 weeks duration. All patients had a definite 
diagnosis of MS (based on McDonald criteria (2001)), exhibited a relapsing clinical course, with or 
without progression, and experienced at least 1 relapse over the year preceding the trial or at least 2 
relapses over the 2 years preceding the trial. At entry, patients had an Expanded Disability Status Scale 
(EDSS) score ≤ 5.5. The mean age of the study population was 37.9 years. The majority of patients 
had relapsing–remitting multiple sclerosis (91.5%), but a subgroup of patients had secondary 
progressive (4.7%) or progressive relapsing multiple sclerosis (3.9%). The mean number of relapses 
within the year before study inclusion was 1.4 with 36.2% of patients having gadolinium-enhancing 
lesions at baseline. The median EDSS score at baseline was 2.50; 249 patients (22.9%) had an EDSS 
score › 3.5 at baseline. The mean duration of disease, since first symptoms, was 8.7 years. A majority 
of patients (73%) had not received disease-modifying therapy during the 2 years before study entry. 
The study results are shown in Table 1.  
Long term follow-up results from TEMSO long term extension safety study (overall median treatment 
duration approximately 5 years, maximum treatment duration approximately 8.5 years) did not present 
any new or unexpected safety findings.  
A total of 1,169 patients with RMS were randomised in TOWER to receive 7 mg (n=408) or 14 mg 
(n=372) of teriflunomide or placebo (n= 389) for a variable treatment duration ending at 48 weeks 
after last patient randomised. All patients had a definite diagnosis of MS (based on McDonald criteria 
(2005)), exhibited a relapsing clinical course, with or without progression, and experienced at least 1 
relapse over the year preceding the trial or at least 2 relapses over the 2 years preceding the trial. At 
entry, patients had an Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score ≤ 5.5. 
The mean age of the study population was 37.9 years. The majority of patients had relapsing–remitting 
multiple sclerosis (97.5%), but a subgroup of patients had secondary progressive (0.8%) or progressive 
relapsing multiple sclerosis (1.7%). The mean number of relapses within the year before study 
inclusion was 1.4. Gadolinium-enhancing lesions at baseline: no data. The median EDSS score at 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
baseline was 2.50; 298 patients (25.5%) had an EDSS score › 3.5 at baseline. The mean duration of 
disease, since first symptoms, was 8.0 years. A majority of patients (67.2%) had not received disease-
modifying therapy during the 2 years before study entry. The study results are shown in Table 1. 
Table 1 - Main results (for the approved dose, ITT population)  
N 
Clinical Outcomes 
Annualised relapse rate
Risk difference (CI95%) 
Relapse-free week 108 
Hazard ratio (CI95%) 
3-month Sustained Disability 
Progression week 108 
Hazard ratio (CI95%) 
6-month Sustained Disability 
Progression week 108 
Hazard ratio (CI95%) 
MRI endpoints 
Change in BOD week 108
(1) 
Change relative to placebo 
Mean Number of Gd-enhancing 
lesions at week 108 
Change relative to placebo 
(CI95%) 
Number of unique active 
lesions/scan 
Change relative to placebo 
(CI95%) 
TEMSO-study 
TOWER-study 
Teriflunomide 
14 mg 
358 
Placebo 
363 
Teriflunomide 
14 mg 
370 
Placebo 
388 
0.54
0.37
-0.17 (-0.26, -0.08)***
45.6%
56.5%
0.72 (0.58, 0.89) **
0.50
0.32 
-0.18 (-0.27, -0.09)****
57.1% 
0.63 (0.50, 0.79) ****
46.8%
20.2% 
27.3% 
15.8% 
19.7% 
0.70 (0.51, 0.97)*
0.68 (0.47, 1.00) * 
13.8% 
18.7% 
11.7% 
11.9% 
0.75 (0.50, 1.11)
0.84 (0.53, 1.33) 
0.72
0.38 
67%***
2.21
1.18 
-0.80 (-1.20, -0.39)**** 
0.75 
2.46 
69%, (59%, 77%)**** 
Not measured 
**** p < 0.0001 *** p < 0.001 **p < 0.01 *p < 0.05 compared to placebo 
(1)  BOD: burden of disease: total lesion volume (T2 and T1 hypointense) in ml 
Efficacy in patients with high disease activity: 
A consistent treatment effect on relapses and time to 3-month sustained disability progression in a 
subgroup of patients in TEMSO (n= 127) with high disease activity was observed. Due to the design 
of the study, high disease activity was defined as 2 or more relapses in one year, and with one or more 
Gd-enhancing lesion on brain MRI. No similar subgroup analysis was performed in TOWER as no 
MRI data were obtained. 
No data are available in patients who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course (normally at 
least one year of treatment) of beta-interferon, having had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while 
on therapy, and at least 9 T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial MRI or at least 1 Gd-enhancing lesion, or 
patients having an unchanged or increased relapse rate in the prior year as compared to the previous 
2 years.  
TOPIC was a double-blind, placebo-controlled study that evaluated once daily doses of teriflunomide 
7 mg and 14 mg for up to 108 weeks in patients with first clinical demyelinating event (mean age 
32.1 years). The primary endpoint was time to a second clinical episode (relapse). A total of 618 
patients were randomised to receive 7 mg (n=205) or 14 mg (n=216) of teriflunomide or placebo 
(n=197). The risk of a second clinical attack over 2 years was 35.9% in the placebo group and 24.0% 
in the teriflunomide 14 mg treatment group (hazard ratio: 0.57, 95% confidence interval: 0.38 to 0.87, 
p=0.0087). The results from the TOPIC study confirmed the efficacy of teriflunomide in RRMS 
(including early RRMS with first clinical demyelinating event and MRI lesions disseminated in time 
and space). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Teriflunomide effectiveness was compared to that of a subcutaneous interferon beta-1a (at the 
recommended dose of 44 μg three times a week) in 324 randomised patients in a study (TENERE) 
with minimum treatment duration of 48 weeks (maximum 114 weeks). The risk of failure (confirmed 
relapse or permanent treatment discontinuation whichever came first) was the primary endpoint. The 
number of patients with permanent treatment discontinuation in the teriflunomide 14 mg group was 22 
out of 111 (19.8%), the reasons being adverse events (10.8%), lack of efficacy (3.6%), other reason 
(4.5%) and lost to follow-up (0.9%). The number of patients with permanent treatment discontinuation 
in the subcutaneous interferon beta-1a group was 30 out of 104 (28 .8%), the reasons being adverse 
events (21.2%), lack of efficacy (1.9%), other reason (4.8%) and poor compliance to protocol (1%). 
Teriflunomide 14 mg/day was not superior to interferon beta-1a on the primary endpoint: the 
estimated percentage of patients with treatment failure at 96 weeks using the Kaplan-Meier method 
was 41.1% versus 44.4% (teriflunomide 14 mg versus interferon beta-1a group, p=0.595). 
Paediatric population 
Children and adolescents (10 to 17 years of age) 
Study EFC11759/TERIKIDS was an international double-blind, placebo-controlled study in paediatric 
patients aged 10 to 17 years with relapsing-remitting MS that evaluated once daily doses of 
teriflunomide (adjusted to reach an exposure equivalent to the dose of 14 mg in adults) for up to 96 
weeks followed by an open-label extension. All patients had experienced at least 1 relapse over 1 year 
or at least 2 relapses over 2 years preceding the study. Neurological evaluations were performed at 
screening and every 24 weeks until the completion, and at unscheduled visits for suspected relapse. 
Patients with a clinical relapse or high MRI activity of at least 5 new or enlarging T2 lesions on 
2 consecutive scans were switched prior to 96 weeks to the open-label extension to ensure active 
treatment. The primary endpoint was time to first clinical relapse after randomisation. Time to first 
confirmed clinical relapse or high MRI activity, whichever came first, was pre-defined as a sensitivity 
analysis because it includes both clinical and MRI conditions qualifying for switching into the open-
label period. 
A total of 166 patients were randomised at a 2:1 ratio to receive teriflunomide (n=109) or placebo 
(n=57). At entry, study patients had an EDSS score ≤ 5.5; the mean age was 14.6 years; the mean 
weight was 58.1 kg; the mean disease duration since diagnosis was 1.4 years; and the mean T1 Gd-
enhancing lesions per MRI scan was 3.9 lesions at baseline. All patients had relapsing remitting MS 
with the median EDSS score of 1.5 at baseline. The mean treatment time was 362 days on placebo and 
488 days on teriflunomide. Switching from the double-blind period to open-label treatment due to high 
MRI activity was more frequent than anticipated, and more frequent and earlier in the placebo group 
than in the teriflunomide group (26% on placebo, 13% on teriflunomide). 
Teriflunomide reduced the risk of clinical relapse by 34% relative to placebo, without reaching 
statistical significance (p = 0.29) (Table 2). In the pre-defined sensitivity analysis, teriflunomide 
achieved a statistically significant reduction in the combined risk of clinical relapse or high MRI 
activity by 43% relative to placebo (p = 0.04) (Table 2). 
Teriflunomide significantly reduced the number of new and enlarging T2 lesions per scan by 55% 
(p=0.0006) (post-hoc analysis also adjusted for baseline T2 counts: 34%, p=0.0446), and the number 
of Gadolinium-enhancing T1 lesions per scan by 75% (p<0.0001) (Table 2). 
Table 2 -  Clinical and MRI results of EFC11759/TERIKIDS 
EFC11759 ITT population 
Teriflunomide  
(N=109) 
Placebo (N=57) 
                                       Clinical endpoints  
Time to first confirmed clinical relapse,   
Probability (95% CI) of confirmed relapse at Week 96  
Probability (95% CI) of confirmed relapse at Week 48  
17 
0.39 (0.29, 0.48)  
0.30 (0.21, 0.39)  
0.53 (0.36, 0.68)  
0.39 (0.30, 0.52)  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
Hazard Ratio (95% CI)  
0.66 (0.39, 1.11)^ 
Time to first confirmed clinical relapse or high MRI activity,  
Probability (95%CI) of confirmed relapse or high MRI activity 
at Week 96  
Probability (95%CI) of confirmed relapse or high MRI activity 
at Week 48  
Hazard Ratio (95% CI)  
                                    Key MRI endpoints  
Adjusted number of new or enlarged T2 lesions,  
Estimate (95% CI)  
Estimate (95% CI), post-hoc analysis also adjusted for baseline 
T2 counts  
0.51 (0.41, 0.60) 
0.72 (0.58, 0.82)  
0.38 (0.29, 0.47) 
0.56 (0.42, 0.68)  
0.57 (0.37, 0.87)* 
4.74 (2.12, 10.57)  
3.57 (1.97, 6.46)  
10.52 (4.71, 23.50)  
5.37 (2.84, 10.16)  
Relative risk (95% CI)  
Relative risk (95% CI), post-hoc analysis also adjusted for 
baseline T2 counts  
0.45 (0.29, 0.71)** 
0.67 (0.45, 0.99)* 
Adjusted number of T1 Gd-enhancing lesions,  
Estimate (95% CI)  
1.90 (0.66, 5.49)  
7.51 (2.48, 22.70)  
Relative risk (95% CI)  
0.25 (0.13, 0.51)*** 
^p≥0.05 compared to placebo, * p<0.05, ** p<0.001, *** p<0.0001  
Probability was based on Kaplan-Meier estimator and Week 96 was the end of study treatment (EOT).  
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with the 
reference medicinal product containing teriflunomide in children from birth to less than 10 years in 
treatment of multiple sclerosis (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Median time to reach maximum plasma concentrations occurs between 1 to 4 hours post-dose 
following repeated oral administration of teriflunomide, with high bioavailability (approximately 
100%). 
Food does not have a clinically relevant effect on teriflunomide pharmacokinetics. 
From the mean predicted pharmacokinetic parameters calculated from the population pharmacokinetic 
(PopPK) analysis using data from healthy volunteers and MS patients, there is a slow approach to 
steady-state concentration (i.e., approximately 100 days (3.5 months) to attain 95% of steady-state 
concentrations) and the estimated AUC accumulation ratio is approximately 34-fold. 
Distribution 
Teriflunomide is extensively bound to plasma protein (> 99%), probably albumin and is mainly 
distributed in plasma. The volume of distribution is 11 l after a single intravenous (IV) administration. 
However, this is most likely an underestimation since extensive organ distribution was observed in 
rats. 
Biotransformation 
Teriflunomide is moderately metabolised and is the only component detected in plasma. The primary 
biotransformation pathway for teriflunomide is hydrolysis with oxidation being a minor pathway. 
Secondary pathways involve oxidation, N-acetylation and sulfate conjugation. 
18 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
Teriflunomide is excreted in the gastrointestinal tract mainly through the bile as unchanged active 
substance and most likely by direct secretion. Teriflunomide is a substrate of the efflux transporter 
BCRP, which could be involved in direct secretion. Over 21 days, 60.1% of the administered dose is 
excreted via faeces (37.5%) and urine (22.6%). After the rapid elimination procedure with 
cholestyramine, an additional 23.1% was recovered (mostly in faeces). Based on individual prediction 
of pharmacokinetic parameters using the PopPK model of teriflunomide in healthy volunteers and MS 
patients, median t1/2z was approximately 19 days after repeated doses of 14 mg. After a single 
intravenous administration, the total body clearance of teriflunomide is 30.5 ml/h. 
Accelerated elimination procedure: cholestyramine and activated charcoal 
The elimination of teriflunomide from the circulation can be accelerated by administration of 
cholestyramine or activated charcoal, presumably by interrupting the reabsorption processes at the 
intestinal level. Teriflunomide concentrations measured during an 11-day procedure to accelerate 
teriflunomide elimination with either 8 g cholestyramine three times a day, 4 g cholestyramine three 
times a day or 50 g activated charcoal twice a day following cessation of teriflunomide treatment have 
shown that these regimens were effective in accelerating teriflunomide elimination, leading to more 
than 98% decrease in teriflunomide plasma concentrations, with cholestyramine being faster than 
charcoal. Following discontinuation of teriflunomide and the administration of cholestyramine 8 g 
three times a day, the plasma concentration of teriflunomide is reduced 52% at the end of day 1, 91% 
at the end of day 3, 99.2% at the end of day 7, and 99.9% at the completion of day 11. The choice 
between the 3 elimination procedures should depend on the patient’s tolerability. If cholestyramine 8 g 
three times a day is not well-tolerated, cholestyramine 4 g three times a day can be used. Alternatively, 
activated charcoal may also be used (the 11 days do not need to be consecutive unless there is a need 
to lower teriflunomide plasma concentration rapidly). 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Systemic exposure increases in a dose proportional manner after oral administration teriflunomide 
from 7 to 14 mg. 
Characteristics in specific groups of patients 
Gender and elderly 
Several sources of intrinsic variability were identified in healthy subjects and MS patients based on the 
PopPK analysis: age, body weight, gender, race, and albumin and bilirubin levels. Nevertheless, their 
impact remains limited (≤ 31%). 
Hepatic impairment 
Mild and moderate hepatic impairment had no impact on the pharmacokinetic of teriflunomide. 
Therefore, no dose adjustment is anticipated in mild and moderate hepatic-impaired patients. 
However, teriflunomide is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2 
and 4.3). 
Renal impairment 
Severe renal impairment had no impact on the pharmacokinetic of teriflunomide. Therefore, no dose 
adjustment is anticipated in mild, moderate and severe renal-impaired patients. 
Paediatric population  
In paediatric patients with body weight > 40 kg treated with 14 mg once daily, steady state exposures 
were in the range observed in adult patients treated with the same dosing regimen.  
In paediatric patients with body weight ≤ 40 kg treatment with 7 mg once daily (based on limited 
clinical data and simulations) led to steady state exposures in the range observed in adult patients 
treated with 14 mg once daily.  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Observed steady state trough concentrations were highly variable between individuals, as observed for 
adult MS patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Repeated-dose toxicity 
Repeated oral administration of teriflunomide to mice, rats and dogs for up to 3, 6, and 12 months, 
respectively, revealed that the major targets of toxicity were the bone marrow, lymphoid organs, oral 
cavity/ gastrointestinal tract, reproductive organs, and pancreas. Evidence of an oxidative effect on red 
blood cells was also observed. Anaemia, decreased platelet counts and effects on the immune system, 
including leucopenia, lymphopenia and secondary infections, were related to the effects on the bone 
marrow and/or lymphoid organs. The majority of effects reflect the basic mode of action of the 
compound (inhibition of dividing cells). Animals are more sensitive to the pharmacology, and 
therefore toxicity, of teriflunomide than humans. As a result, toxicity in animals was found at 
exposures equivalent or below human therapeutic levels. 
Genotoxic and carcinogenic potential 
Teriflunomide was not mutagenic in vitro or clastogenic in vivo. Clastogenicity observed in vitro was 
considered to be an indirect effect related to nucleotide pool imbalance resulting from the 
pharmacology of DHO-DH inhibition. The minor metabolite TFMA (4-trifluoromethylaniline) caused 
mutagenicity and clastogenicity in vitro but not in vivo. 
No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in rats and mice. 
Reproduction toxicity 
Fertility was unaffected in rats despite adverse effects of teriflunomide on male reproductive organs, 
including reduced sperm count. There were no external malformations in the offspring of male rats 
administered teriflunomide prior to mating with untreated female rats. Teriflunomide was embryotoxic 
and teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses in the human therapeutic range. Adverse effects on the 
offspring were also seen when teriflunomide was administered to pregnant rats during gestation and 
lactation. The risk of male-mediated embryo-foetal toxicity through teriflunomide treatment is 
considered low. The estimated female plasma exposure via the semen of a treated patient is expected 
to be 100 times lower than the plasma exposure after 14 mg of oral teriflunomide. 
Juvenile toxicity 
Juvenile rats receiving oral teriflunomide for 7 weeks from weaning through sexual maturity revealed 
no adverse effects on growth, physical or neurological development, learning and memory, locomotor 
activity, sexual development, or fertility. Adverse effects comprised anaemia, reduction of lymphoid 
responsiveness, dose-dependently diminished T cell dependent antibody response and greatly 
decreased IgM and IgG concentrations, which generally coincided with observations in repeat-dose 
toxicity studies in adult rats. However, the increase in B cells observed in juvenile rats was not 
observed in adult rats. The significance of this difference is unknown, but complete reversibility was 
demonstrated as for most of the other findings.  
Due to the high sensitivity of animals to teriflunomide, juvenile rats were exposed to lower levels than 
those in children and adolescents at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lactose monohydrate 
Maize starch 
Microcrystalline cellulose (E460i) 
Sodium starch glycolate (Type A) 
Hydroxypropylcellulose (E463) 
Magnesium stearate (E470b) 
Colloidal anhydrous silica 
Tablet coating 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol 6000 (E1521) 
Talc (E553b) 
Indigo carmine aluminium lake (E132) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 25C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
OPA/Aluminium/PVC-Aluminium blister packs of 28 or 84 tablets and perforated unit dose blisters of 
28 x 1, 84 x 1 or 98 x 1. 
High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) bottles with polypropylene (PP) screw closure in packs of 84 or 
98 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.   
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Dublin 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1698/001 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/22/1698/002 
EU/1/22/1698/003 
EU/1/22/1698/004 
EU/1/22/1698/005 
EU/1/22/1698/006 
EU/1/22/1698/007 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 09 November 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
Mylan utca 1 
Komárom 
H-2900 
Hungary 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad 
Homburg Benzstrasse 1 
Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe 
61352  
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch in each Member State the MAH shall agree an educational programme with the 
National Competent Authority. 
The MAH shall ensure that, following discussion and agreement with the National Competent 
Authorities in each Member State where teriflunomide is marketed, at launch and after launch, all 
healthcare professionals who are expected to use teriflunomide are provided with the following items: 
  Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) 
  HCP guide 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Patient Card 
The HCP Guide will include the following key elements: 
1.  HCPs should discuss with their patients the specific safety concerns of teriflunomide detailed 
below including the tests and precautions needed for safe use at first prescription, and regularly 
during treatment as follows: 
  Risk of hepatic effects 
  Liver function tests are needed prior to the start of treatment and periodically during 
treatment. 
  To educate the patient about the signs and symptoms of liver disease and the need to 
report to their HCP if they experience any of them. 
 
Potential risk of teratogenicity 
  To remind women of child-bearing potential (WOCP) including adolescents/their 
parents-caregivers that teriflunomide is contraindicated in pregnant women and in 
WOCP not using an effective contraception during and after treatment. 
  To assess regularly the potential for pregnancy in female patients including patients 
below 18 years old. 
  To tell female children and/or parents/caregivers of female children about the need 
to contact the prescribing physician once the female child under teriflunomide 
treatment experiences menses. Counselling should be provided to the new patients of 
child-bearing potential about contraception and the potential risk to the foetus. 
  To check pregnancy status before starting treatment. 
  To educate female patients of child-bearing potential on the need for effective 
contraception during and after treatment with teriflunomide. 
  To remind patients to inform their doctor immediately if they stop contraception, or 
 
prior to changing contraceptive measures. 
If female patients become pregnant despite using contraceptive measures, they 
should stop teriflunomide and contact their doctor immediately who should: 
  Consider and discuss with the patient the accelerated elimination procedure, 
  Report any pregnancy case to <marketing authorisation holder> by calling 
<local number> or visiting <URL>, irrespective of adverse outcomes 
observed. 
 
Risk of hypertension 
  To check for a history of hypertension and that blood pressure should be 
appropriately managed during treatment. 
  The need for blood pressure checks before treatment and periodically during 
treatment. 
  Risk of haematologic effects  
  To discuss the risk of decreased blood cell counts (affecting mainly white blood 
cells) and the need for complete blood cell counts before treatment and periodically 
during treatment based on signs and symptoms. 
 
Risk of infections/serious infections 
  To discuss the need to contact the doctor in the event of signs/symptoms of infection, 
or if the patient takes other medicines that affect the immune system. If serious 
infection occurs, consider the accelerated elimination procedure. 
2.  A reminder to provide patients/legal representative with a Patient Card, including filling-in their 
contact details, and to provide replacement Patient Cards as necessary. 
3.  A reminder to discuss the Patient Card content with the patient/legal representative regularly at 
each consultation at least annually during treatment. 
4.  To encourage patients to contact their MS physician and/or General Practitioner if they experience 
any of the signs and symptoms discussed in the Patient Card. 
5.  At prescription renewal, adverse events are checked, ongoing risks and their prevention are 
discussed, and checks are made to ensure adequate monitoring is taking place. 
The Patient Card is aligned with labelling information and includes the following key elements: 
25 
 
 
 
1.  A reminder for both patients and all HCPs involved in their treatment that the patient is being 
treated with teriflunomide, a medicine which: 
Should not be used in pregnant women. 
 
  Requires concomitant use of effective contraception in women of child-bearing potential. 
  Requires a pregnancy status check before treatment. 
  Affects liver function. 
  Affects blood cell counts and the immune system. 
2.  Information to educate the patient about important side effects: 
  To pay attention to certain signs and symptoms which might indicate liver disease, or 
infection, and if any of these occur, to contact their doctor/HCP promptly. 
  To remind female patients to tell their doctor if breast-feeding. 
  A reminder for women of child-bearing potential including girls and their parents/ 
caregivers: 
 
 
 
to use effective contraception during and after treatment with teriflunomide. 
that your doctor will provide counselling on the potential risks to the foetus and on 
the need for effective contraception. 
to stop treatment with teriflunomide immediately if they suspect they might be 
pregnant and also to contact their doctor immediately. 
 
If women of child-bearing potential become pregnant: 
  To remind both patients and HCPs about the accelerated elimination procedure. 
  To remind patients to show the Patient Card to Doctors/HCPs involved with their medical 
care (especially in the event of medical emergencies and/or if new Doctors/HCPs are 
involved). 
  To record the first date of prescription and the contact details of their prescriber. 
3.  To encourage the patients to read the PIL thoroughly. 
26 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LABELLING 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teriflunomide Mylan 14 mg film-coated tablets 
teriflunomide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 14 mg of teriflunomide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
28 tablets 
84 tablets 
28 x 1 tablets 
84 x 1 tablets 
98 x 1 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store below 25C. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1698/001 
EU/1/22/1698/002 
EU/1/22/1698/003 
EU/1/22/1698/004 
EU/1/22/1698/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Teriflunomide Mylan 14 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER AND IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE (WITH OR WITHOUT CARTON) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teriflunomide Mylan 14 mg film-coated tablets 
teriflunomide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 14 mg of teriflunomide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
84 tablets 
98 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25C. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1698/006 
EU/1/22/1698/007 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Teriflunomide Mylan 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teriflunomide Mylan 14 mg tablets 
teriflunomide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Oral use 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PACKAGE LEAFLET 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Teriflunomide Mylan 14 mg film-coated tablets 
teriflunomide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Teriflunomide Mylan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Teriflunomide Mylan  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Teriflunomide Mylan  
Possible side effects 
How to store Teriflunomide Mylan  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Teriflunomide Mylan is and what it is used for 
What Teriflunomide Mylan is 
Teriflunomide Mylan contains the active substance teriflunomide which is an immunomodulatory 
agent and adjusts the immune system to limit its attack on the nervous system. 
What Teriflunomide Mylan is used for 
Teriflunomide is used in adults and in children and adolescents (10 years of age and older) to treat 
relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (MS). 
What multiple sclerosis is 
MS is a long-term illness that affects the central nervous system (CNS). The CNS is made up of the 
brain and spinal cord. In multiple sclerosis, inflammation destroys the protective sheath (called 
myelin) around the nerves in the CNS. This loss of myelin is called demyelination. This stops nerves 
from working properly. 
People with relapsing form of multiple sclerosis will have repeated attacks (relapses) of physical 
symptoms caused by their nerves not working properly. These symptoms vary from patient to patient 
but usually involve: 
 
 
 
difficulty walking 
vision problems 
balance problems. 
Symptoms may disappear completely after the relapse is over, but over time, some problems may 
remain between relapses. This can cause physical disabilities that may interfere with your daily 
activities. 
How Teriflunomide Mylan works 
Teriflunomide Mylan helps to protect against attacks on the central nervous system by the immune 
system by limiting the increase of some white blood cells (lymphocytes). This limits the inflammation 
that leads to nerve damage in MS. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Teriflunomide Mylan  
Do not take Teriflunomide Mylan: 
- 
if you are allergic to teriflunomide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you have ever developed a severe skin rash or skin peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores after 
taking teriflunomide or leflunomide 
if you have severe liver problems 
if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are breast-feeding 
if you suffer from a serious problem which affects your immune system e.g. acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) 
if you have a serious problem with your bone marrow, or if you have low numbers of red or 
white cells in your blood or a reduced number of blood platelets 
if you are suffering from a serious infection 
if you have severe kidney problems which require dialysis 
if you have very low levels of proteins in your blood (hypoproteinaemia). 
If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Teriflunomide Mylan if: 
- 
you have liver problems, and/or if you drink large amounts of alcohol. Your doctor will carry 
out blood tests before and during treatment to check how well your liver is working. If your test 
results show a problem with your liver, your doctor may stop your treatment with Teriflunomide 
Mylan. Please read section 4. 
you have high blood pressure (hypertension) whether it is controlled with medicines or not. 
Teriflunomide Mylan can cause an increase in blood pressure. Your doctor will check your 
blood pressure before the start of treatment and regularly thereafter. Please read section 4. 
you have an infection. Before you take Teriflunomide Mylan, your doctor will make sure you 
have enough white blood cells and platelets in your blood. As Teriflunomide Mylan decreases 
the number of white cells in the blood this may affect your ability to fight the infection. Your 
doctor may do blood tests to check your white blood cells if you think you have an infection. 
Please read section 4. 
you have severe skin reactions 
you have respiratory symptoms 
you have weakness, numbness and pain in the hands and feet 
you are going to have a vaccination 
you take leflunomide with Teriflunomide Mylan 
you are switching to or from Teriflunomide Mylan 
you are due to have a specific blood test (calcium level). Falsely low levels of calcium can be 
detected. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Respiratory reactions 
Tell your doctor if you have unexplained cough and dyspnoea (shortness of breath). Your doctor may 
perform additional tests. 
Children and adolescents 
Teriflunomide Mylan is not intended for use in children under 10 years of age, as it has not been 
studied in MS patients in this age group. 
The warnings and precautions listed above also apply to children. The following information is 
important for children and their caregivers: 
- 
inflammation of the pancreas has been observed in patients receiving teriflunomide. Your 
child’s doctor may carry out blood tests if an inflammation to the pancreas is suspected. 
Other medicines and Teriflunomide Mylan  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following: 
- 
leflunomide, methotrexate and other medicines that affect the immune system (often called 
immunosuppressants or immunomodulators) 
rifampicin (a medicine used to treat tuberculosis and other infections) 
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin for epilepsy 
St John’s wort (a herbal medicine for depression) 
repaglinide, pioglitazone, nateglinide, or rosiglitazone for diabetes 
daunorubicin, doxorubicin, paclitaxel, or topotecan for cancer 
duloxetine for depression, urinary incontinence or in kidney disease in diabetics 
alosetron for the management of severe diarrhoea 
theophylline for asthma 
tizanidine, a muscle relaxant 
warfarin, an anticoagulant used to make the blood thinner (i.e. more fluid) in order to avoid 
blood clots 
oral contraceptives (containing ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel) 
cefaclor, benzylpenicillin (penicillin G), ciprofloxacin for infections 
indometacin, ketoprofen for pain or inflammation 
furosemide for heart disease 
cimetidine for reducing gastric acid 
zidovudine for HIV infection 
rosuvastatin, simvastatin, atorvastatin, pravastatin for hypercholesterolemia (high cholesterol) 
sulfasalazine for inflammatory bowel disease or rheumatoid arthritis 
cholestyramine for high cholesterol or relief from itching in liver disease 
activated charcoal to reduce absorption of medicines or other substances. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Do not take Teriflunomide Mylan if you are, or think you may be pregnant. If you are pregnant or 
become pregnant while taking Teriflunomide Mylan the risk of having a baby with birth defects is 
increased. Women of childbearing potential must not take this medicine without using reliable 
contraceptive measures. 
If your child/adolescent daughter reaches menses while taking teriflunomide, you should inform the 
doctor, who will provide specialist counselling regarding contraception and the potential risks in case 
of pregnancy. 
Tell your doctor if you plan to become pregnant after stopping treatment with Teriflunomide Mylan as 
you need to ensure that most of this medicine has left your body before trying to become pregnant. 
The elimination of the active substance may take up to 2 years to occur naturally. The time can be 
reduced to a few weeks by taking certain medicines which speed up removal of Teriflunomide Mylan 
from your body. 
In either case it should be confirmed by a blood test that the active substance has been sufficiently 
removed from your body and you need confirmation from your treating physician that the blood level 
of Teriflunomide Mylan is low enough to allow you to become pregnant. 
For further information on the laboratory testing please contact your doctor. 
If you suspect that you are pregnant while taking Teriflunomide Mylan or in the two years after you 
have stopped treatment, you must discontinue Teriflunomide Mylan and contact your doctor 
immediately for a pregnancy test. If the test confirms that you are pregnant, your doctor may suggest 
treatment with certain medicines to remove Teriflunomide Mylan rapidly and sufficiently from your 
body, as this may decrease the risk to your baby. 
Contraception 
You must use an effective method of contraception during and after treatment with Teriflunomide 
Mylan.  
Teriflunomide remains in your blood for a long time after you stop taking it. Continue to use effective 
contraception after you stop treatment. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do this until the levels of Teriflunomide Mylan in your blood are low enough - your doctor will 
check this. 
Talk with your doctor about the best method of contraception for you and any potential need for 
contraception change. 
Do not take Teriflunomide Mylan when you are breast-feeding, as teriflunomide passes into the breast 
milk. 
Driving and using machines 
Teriflunomide Mylan might make you feel dizzy which may impair your ability to concentrate and 
react. If you are affected, do not drive or use machines. 
Teriflunomide Mylan contains lactose 
Teriflunomide Mylan contains lactose (a type of sugar). If you have been told by your doctor that you 
have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
Teriflunomide Mylan contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to take Teriflunomide Mylan  
Treatment with Teriflunomide Mylan will be overseen by a doctor who is experienced in the treatment 
of multiple sclerosis. 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
Adults 
The recommended dose is one 14 mg teriflunomide tablet daily. 
Children and adolescents (10 years of age and above) 
The dose depends on body weight: 
- 
- 
Children with body weight greater than 40 kg: one 14 mg tablet daily. 
Children with body weight less than or equal to 40 kg: one 7 mg tablet daily. 
Teriflunomide 7 mg strength is not marketed by Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited but may be available 
from other Marketing Authorisation Holders. 
Children and adolescents who reach a stable body weight above 40 kg will be instructed by their 
doctor to switch to one 14 mg tablet daily. 
Route/method of administration 
Teriflunomide Mylan is for oral use. Teriflunomide Mylan is taken every day as a single dose at any 
time of the day. 
You should swallow the tablet whole with some water. 
Teriflunomide Mylan may be taken with or without food. 
If you take more Teriflunomide Mylan than you should 
If you have taken too much Teriflunomide Mylan, call your doctor straight away. You may experience 
side effects similar to those described in section 4 below. 
If you forget to take Teriflunomide Mylan  
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten tablet. Take your next dose at the scheduled time. 
If you stop taking Teriflunomide Mylan  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not stop taking Teriflunomide Mylan or change your dose without talking to your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The following side effects may happen with this medicine. 
Serious side effects 
Some side effects could be or could become serious, if you experience any of these, tell your doctor 
immediately: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
Inflammation of the pancreas which might include symptoms of pain in the abdominal area, 
nausea, or vomiting (the frequency is common in paediatric patients and uncommon in adult 
patients). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
Allergic reactions which might include symptoms of rash, hives, swelling of lips, tongue or face 
or sudden difficulty breathing. 
Severe skin reactions which might include symptoms of skin rash, blistering, fever or ulcers in 
your mouth. 
Severe infections or sepsis (a potentially life-threatening type of infection) which might include 
symptoms of high fever, shaking, chills, reduced urine flow, or confusion. 
Inflammation of the lungs which might include symptoms of shortness of breath or persistent 
cough. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
Serious liver disease which might include symptoms of yellowing of your skin or the whites of 
your eyes, darker urine than normal, unexplained nausea and vomiting, or abdominal pain. 
Other side effects can occur with the following frequencies: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Headache 
Diarrhoea, feeling sick 
Increase in ALT (increase in blood levels of certain hepatic enzymes) shown in tests 
Hair thinning. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
Influenza, upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, bronchitis, sinusitis, sore 
throat and discomfort when swallowing, cystitis, gastroenteritis viral, oral herpes, tooth 
infection, laryngitis, fungal infection of the foot 
Laboratory values: a decrease in the number of red blood cells (anaemia), changes in liver and 
white blood cell test results (see section 2), as well as elevations in a muscle enzyme (creatine 
phosphokinase) have been observed 
Mild allergic reactions 
Feeling anxious 
Pins and needles, feeling weak, numb, tingling or pain in the lower back or leg (sciatica); 
feeling numb, burning, tingling or pain in the hands and fingers (carpal tunnel syndrome) 
Feeling your heartbeat 
Increase in blood pressure 
Being sick (vomiting), toothache, upper abdominal pain 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Rash, acne 
Pain of the tendons, joints, bones, muscle pain (musculoskeletal pain) 
Needing to urinate more often than usual 
Heavy periods 
Pain 
Lack of energy or feeling weak (asthenia)  
Weight loss. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
Decrease in the number of blood platelets (mild thrombocytopenia) 
Increased feeling or sensitivity, especially in the skin; stabbing or throbbing pain along one or 
more nerves, problems in the nerves of the arms or legs (peripheral neuropathy) 
Nail disorders, severe skin reactions 
Post-traumatic pain 
Psoriasis 
Inflammation of mouth/lips 
Abnormal levels of fats (lipids) in the blood 
Inflammation of the colon (colitis). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
Inflammation or injury of the liver. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
Respiratory hypertension. 
Children (10 years of age and above) and adolescents 
The side effects listed above also apply to children and adolescents. The following additional 
information is important for children, adolescents, and their caregivers: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
Inflammation of the pancreas. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Teriflunomide Mylan  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after ‘EXP’. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 25C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Teriflunomide Mylan contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is teriflunomide. Each tablet contains 14 mg of teriflunomide. 
The other ingredients are: 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tablet core: lactose monohydrate , maize starch, microcrystalline cellulose (E460i), sodium 
starch glycolate (Type A) , hydroxypropylcellulose (E463), magnesium stearate (E470b), 
colloidal anhydrous silica; 
Tablet coat: hypromellose (E464), titanium dioxide (E171), talc (E553b), macrogol 6000 
(E1521), indigo carmine aluminium lake (E132). 
What Teriflunomide Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Pale blue to pastel blue, round, biconvex (surface curved outwards on both sides) with ‘T’ on one side 
and ‘1’ on the other side, approximately 7.6 mm diameter.  
Teriflunomide Mylan is available in blister packs of 28 or 84 tablets, perforated unit dose blisters of 
28 x 1, 84 x1 or 98 x 1 tablets and in bottles containing 84 or 98 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
Mylan utca 1 
Komárom 
H-2900 
Hungary 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad 
Homburg Benzstrasse 1 
Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe 
61352  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00  
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32 
Deutschland 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB 
Tel: +370 5 205 1288 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Viatris Healthcare Kft 
Tel: + 36 1 465 2100 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd 
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH 
Tel: +49 800 0700 800 
Mylan BV 
Tel: +31 (0)20 426 3300 
Eesti 
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH Eesti filiaal  
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
Ελλάδα 
Viatris Hellas Ltd 
Τηλ:  +30 210 0 100 002  
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
France 
Viatris Santé 
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Tel:   +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf 
Símí: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Viatris Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd  
Τηλ: +357 2220 7700 
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA 
Tel: +371 676 055 80 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 416 2418 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 546 64 00 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 4 12-7 2 00 
România 
BGP Products SRL 
Tel: +40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o. 
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris OY 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Sverige 
Viatris AB  
Tel: + 46 (0) 8 630 19 00  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited 
Tel:  +353 18711600
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
