15 September 2022 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Teriflunomide Mylan  
International non-proprietary name: teriflunomide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005962/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Legal basis, dossier content ................................................................................... 5 
1.3. Information on paediatric requirements................................................................... 5 
1.4. Information relating to orphan market exclusivity ..................................................... 6 
1.4.1. Similarity .......................................................................................................... 6 
1.5. Scientific advice ................................................................................................... 6 
1.6. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 18 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 18 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development ................................................. 18 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 19 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 19 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 19 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 19 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 19 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 20 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 20 
2.4.2. Clinical pharmacology ...................................................................................... 20 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 26 
2.4.4. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 27 
2.5. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 27 
2.5.1. Safety concerns ............................................................................................... 27 
2.5.2. Pharmacovigilance plan .................................................................................... 27 
2.5.3. Risk minimisation measures .............................................................................. 28 
2.5.4. Conclusion ...................................................................................................... 29 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 29 
2.6.1. Pharmacovigilance system ................................................................................ 29 
2.6.2. Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements ..................................... 29 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 29 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 29 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 30 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 30 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 2/33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ASMF 
BCS  
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
BE        
Bioequivalence 
CHMP    
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use  
CFU 
CoA 
CQA  
FRCs  
HDPE 
Colony Forming Units 
Certificate of Analysis 
Critical Quality Attribute 
Functionality related characteristics  
High Density Polyethylene 
HPLC     
High performance liquid chromatography 
ICH 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration 
of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
ID  
IR 
Identification 
Infrared 
LDPE 
Low Density Polyethylene 
MO  
NLT 
NMR 
NMT 
OPA  
PDE 
PP 
PVC 
Major objection 
Not less than 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Not more than 
oriented polyamide  
Permitted Daily Exposure 
Polypropylene 
Polyvinyl chloride 
QTPP    
Quality target product profile 
QWP 
RH 
Quality Working Party 
Relative Humidity 
SmPC   
Summary of Product Characteristics 
TAMC    
Total Aerobic Microbial Count 
tmax  
Time to achieve Cmax 
TTC 
Threshold of toxicological concern  
TYMC    
Total Combined Yeasts/Moulds Count 
UV 
Ultraviolet 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 3/33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XRPD 
X-Ray (Powder) Diffraction 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 4/33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited submitted on 10 September 2021 an application for 
marketing authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Teriflunomide Mylan 14 mg film-
coated tablets, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– 
‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon 
by the EMA/CHMP on 24 June 2021. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, 
for which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete 
dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Teriflunomide Mylan is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis (MS) (please refer to section 5.1 for important information on the population for which 
efficacy has been established). 
1.2.  Legal basis, dossier content  
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Aubagio instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: Aubagio 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not 
less than 8 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aubagio 14mg film-coated tablets  
Marketing authorisation holder: sanofi-aventis groupe 
Date of authorisation: 26-08-2013 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Union Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/13/838/001-005 
1.3.  Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 5/33 
 
  
 
 
1.4.  Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
1.4.1.  Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
1.5.  Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice from the CHMP. 
1.6.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Alar Irs  
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
10 September 2021 
30 September 2021 
The CHMP Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
21 December 2021 
CHMP and PRAC members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
30 December 2021 
PRAC and CHMP members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
27 January 2022 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
22 April 2022 
Questions on 
The CHMP Rapporteur circulated the CHMP and PRAC Rapporteurs Joint 
30 May 2022 
Assessment Report on the applicant's responses to the List of Questions 
to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
10 June 2022 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing to be sent to 
23 June 2022 
the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
12 August 2022 
Outstanding Issues on  
The CHMP Rapporteur circulated the CHMP and PRAC Rapporteurs Joint 
31 August 2022 
Assessment Report on the responses to the List of Outstanding Issues 
to all CHMP and PRAC members on 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 6/33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
15 September 2022 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Teriflunomide Mylan on  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This  application  for  a  marketing  authorisation  of  Teriflunomide  Mylan  14  mg  film-coated  tablets  is 
submitted  under  Article  10(1)  (generic  of  a  reference  medicinal  product)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  as 
amended.  Bioequivalence  is  claimed  to  the  reference  product  Aubagio  14  mg  film-coated  tablets 
marketed by Sanofi Aventis Groupe, France, authorised in the EU since 26/08/2013 through centralised 
procedure (EU/1/13/838).  
Teriflunomide  is  an  immunomodulatory  agent  with  anti-inflammatory  properties  that  selectively  and 
reversibly inhibits the fourth mitochondrial enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHO-DH), required 
for  the  de novo  pyrimidine  synthesis.  As  a  consequence,  teriflunomide  blocks  the  activation  and 
proliferation of rapidly dividing cells including activated lymphocytes which depend on de novo synthesis 
of pyrimidine to expand. Slowly dividing or resting cells which rely on the salvage pathway for pyrimidine 
synthesis are claimed to be unaffected by teriflunomide. The exact mechanism by which teriflunomide 
exerts its therapeutic effect in MS is not fully understood, but likely includes the reduction of activated 
lymphocytes available to migrate into the central nervous system. 
Teriflunomide  is  the  active  metabolite  of  immunosuppressant  leflunomide  indicated  for  rheumatoid 
arthritis and for psoriatic arthritis. In vivo, leflunomide is rapidly and almost completely metabolised to 
teriflunomide  which  is  active  in  vitro  and  is  presumed  to  be  responsible  for  the  therapeutic  effect  of 
leflunomide.  In  studies,  teriflunomide  has  shown  to  reduce  relapses  and  delay  the  progression  of 
disability in patients with relapsing remitting MS. 
Regarding its safety, side effects were similar to the immunosuppressant leflunomide, as leflunomide is 
converted into teriflunomide in the body. The most common side effects with teriflunomide (which may 
affect more than 1 in 10 people) are headache, diarrhoea, increased liver enzymes, nausea, and alopecia. 
In general, headache, diarrhoea, nausea and alopecia are mild to moderate, resolve with time and do 
not usually lead to treatment being stopped. 
According  to  the  reference  product,  the  treatment  with  teriflunomide  should  be  restricted  to  patients 
with:  
• 
• 
severe liver disease;  
severe immunodeficiency states, such as acquired immune deficiency syndrome;  
•  poor bone marrow function or low blood cell counts;  
• 
• 
• 
severe active infections;  
severe kidney disease that requires dialysis;  
severe hypoproteinaemia.  
Teriflunomide must not be used in pregnant women or during breast-feeding. Women who can become 
pregnant must not take Teriflunomide without using reliable contraceptive measures. 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 7/33 
 
  
 
 
 
Additional risk minimisation activities have been established for patients using teriflunomide: 
• 
• 
Educational material for Healthcare professionals  
Educational card for patients  
The reference product is also authorised as 7 mg film-coated tablets however, this strength has not 
been applied for the proposed generic product. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction  
The  finished  product  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  containing  14  mg  of  teriflunomide  as  active 
substance.  
Other ingredients are:  
Tablet  core:  lactose  monohydrate,  maize  starch,  microcrystalline  cellulose  (E460i),  sodium  starch 
glycolate  (Type  A),  hydroxypropylcellulose  (E463),  magnesium  stearate  (E470b),  colloidal  anhydrous 
silica. 
Tablet  coating:  hypromellose  (E464),  titanium  dioxide  (E171),  macrogol  6000  (E1521),  talc  (E553b), 
indigo carmine aluminium lake (E132). 
The  product  is  available  in  OPA/Aluminium/PVC-Aluminium  blister  packs  of  28  or  84  tablets  and 
perforated unit dose blisters as well as in high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles with polypropylene 
(PP) screw closure in packs of 84 or 98 tablets.  
2.2.2.  Active substance 
2.2.2.1.  General Information 
The chemical name of teriflunomide is (2Z)-2-cyano-3-hydroxy-N-[4-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl]but-2-
enamide corresponds to the molecular formula C12H9F3N2O2. It has a relative molecular mass of 270.2 
g/mol and the following structure:  
Figure 1: Active substance structure 
There is a monograph of teriflunomide in the European Pharmacopoeia (07/2021:3036).  
Sufficient  information  on  elucidation  of  structure  and  other  characteristics  has  been  provided.  The 
chemical structure of teriflunomide has been elucidated by UV, IR, mass spectroscopic analysis, 1H-NMR 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 8/33 
 
  
 
 
 
and  13C NMR and elemental analysis with representative spectra provided. The representative spectra 
have been provided.  
The active substance is a white or almost white powder, practically insoluble in water, slightly soluble in 
anhydrous ethanol, practically insoluble in heptane and is non-hygroscopic in nature.  
Teriflunomide has no chiral centre. Due to presence of double bond E/Z isomerism is possible. The active 
substance is Z isomer. Presence of desired single isomer has been confirmed based on the spectral and 
analytical data. 
Polymorphism control is not foreseen by the Ph. Eur. monograph but the two-theta values of the Form 
obtained using the active substance manufacturer process are routinely tested by XRPD test at release. 
The  polymorphic  form  remains  unchanged  following  storage  at  long  term  and  accelerated  conditions 
(supported by stability data).  
The material can be micronised by the active substance manufacturer as per the particle size requirement 
of the finished product manufacturer. The process has been described in sufficient detail.  
The active substance documentation is presented in the form of an Active Substance Master File (ASMF).  
2.2.2.2.  Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted 
part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
The manufacturing process of teriflunomide followed at the active substance manufacturing site is a two-
step process using commercially available well defined starting materials with acceptable specifications.  
The  proposed  starting  materials  are  commercially  available,  commodities  in  a  pre-existing  non-
pharmaceutical market, in line with requirements of ICH Q11. 
There  are  no  alternative  steps,  reprocessing  carried  out  and  recovered  solvents  used  in  the 
manufacturing process of the active substance. 
In-process controls have been adequately described. Critical process parameters have been identified 
and justified. 
There are several intermediates isolated in the process. Issues raised in connection with the proposed 
control  strategy  have  been  resolved.  Although  the  process  of  teriflunomide  does  not  involve  aseptic 
processing or sterilisation, process validation data is provided.  
The manufacturing process development has been described and although is considered rather generic, 
it is considered sufficient. 
Discussion  on  actual  and  potential  impurities  that  are  likely  to  arise  during  the  synthesis  has  been 
provided  and  the  mechanisms  utilized  for  their  control  are  presented.  The  presented  discussion  on 
genotoxic impurities has been updated to address a Major Objection (MO) raised by the CHMP. The ICH 
classification (class 1 – class 5) of all impurities with an alerting structure for genotoxicity according to 
ICH  guideline  M7  (R1)  has  been  provided.  The  fate  and  carry-over  of  pGTI  has  been  addressed  and 
control strategy in compliance with ICH M7 demonstrated.  
Solvents used in the process are tested in the final active substance at ICH Q3C limits.  
An  elemental  impurities  risk  assessment  in  line  with  ICH  Q3D  has  been  provided.  Evaluation  was 
performed according to ICH Q3D Option 1. No risks were identified. Screening of elemental impurities 
by validated ICP-MS was performed. Further controls in the active substance are deemed unnecessary.  
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 9/33 
 
  
 
 
No  inorganic  metal  catalysts  are  used  in  the  manufacture  of  teriflunomide.  Inorganic  impurities  are 
controlled by sulphated ash at NMT 0.1%.  
A  risk  assessment  on  nitrosamines  has  been  provided  by  the  active  substance  manufacturer.  It  is 
confirmed that there is no risk relating to nitrosamine impurities. 
The active substance is packaged in double polyethylene bag (inner translucent HM/HDPE bag and outer 
black  polyethylene  bag)  tied  by  plastic  seals  and  kept  in  fibre  board  drum  and  HM/HDPE  drum.  The 
primary packaging material complies with EC 10/2011 as amended. 
2.2.2.3.  Specifications 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  description  (Ph.  Eur.),  solubility  (in-house), 
identification  (IR),  water  content  (KF),  sulphated  ash  (Ph.  Eur.),  related  substances  (HPLC),  assay 
(HPLC), residual solvents (GCHS), and polymorphic form (XRPD). The specifications have been uniquely 
identified by number and date and chemical names of the impurities included in the specifications as a 
footnote. 
Parameters  included  in  the  specification  cover  critical  aspects  for  ensuring  the  quality  of  the  active 
substance and the proposed specifications are in line with the Ph. Eur. monograph for teriflunomide. In 
addition, the active substance manufacturer controls residual solvents and polymorphic form of the active 
substance. Microbiological purity is not controlled at release but the parameter was tested during the 
stability  study  at  accelerated  and  long-term  conditions.  Omission  of  the  test  by  the  finished  product 
manufacturer is considered acceptable. Since the active substance is not sterile and not intended for use 
in a sterile medicinal product, it is accepted to omit the control of microbiological purity. 
The proposed acceptance criteria are in accordance with relevant guidelines and are justified.  
Several impurities of the process are controlled at intermediate level and the proposed control strategy 
is considered approvable.  
Several  impurities  of  the  process  are  controlled  at  intermediate  level.  The  limits  of  some  of  these 
impurities were tightened during the review as requested by the CHMP.  
The control strategy for residual solvents is considered acceptable, these are limited according to ICH 
Q3C requirements. 
The  analytical  methods  used  have  been  adequately  described.  Validations  of  in-house  methods  have 
been  performed  in  accordance  with  ICH  Q2  (R1).  For  related  substances/assay  the  active  substance 
manufacturer uses in-house analytical procedures which are not in line with the permitted adjustments 
of monograph 2.2.46. Quality equivalence of the in-house and Ph. Eur. methods has been demonstrated. 
Satisfactory  information  regarding  the  reference  standards  used  for  assay  and  impurities  testing  has 
been presented.  
Batch analysis data (3 batches,) are provided. The results are within the proposed specifications.  
2.2.2.4.  Stability 
Stability data from 6 bathes, manufactured by the active substance manufacturer, stored for up to 24 
and 60 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated 
conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The active substance was 
stored in the intended commercial package.  
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 10/33 
 
  
 
 
The following parameters were tested: appearance, ID by IR and HPLC, water, related substances, assay 
by HPLC and in addition: XRPD and microbiological purity. 
The samples have been tested as per analytical methods used for release. The quality specifications have 
been  updated  several  times,  namely  limits  for  related  substances  have  been  tightened  since 
manufacturing  of  initial  batches  and  test  for  water  content  included  as  per  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for 
teriflunomide. Based on the stability data provided, each parameter remained within specifications at all 
time points and under both storage conditions as per currently valid tighter limits (no upwards trends in 
impurities seen) as well as the polymorphic form stayed unchanged. 
The  stability  indicating  nature  of  the  in-house  HPLC  methods  are  demonstrated  by  means  of  forced 
degradation  study.  The  sample  of  teriflunomide  was  exposed  to  thermal  degradation,  photostability, 
water,  acid,  base  and  oxidation.  Degradation  observed  in  water,  acidic  and  oxidative  degradation 
conditions. The photostability testing confirmed that the active substance is not sensitive to light.  
The active substance manufacturer proposes a re-test period of 60 months with a requirement to store 
the active substance in well-closed containers and packed in commercial package. There are no special 
storage  conditions  concerning  the  temperature  as  the  active  substance  shows  good  stability  also  at 
accelerated conditions. The proposed re-test period is accepted.  
Additional data provided by applicant only 
The finished product manufacturer has provided additional stability data on section S.4 and S.5.  
The specification of teriflunomide active substance followed at the finished product manufacturing site is 
generally in line with the active substance specification followed by the active substance manufacturer. 
In addition, particle size distribution was tested based on the particle size results observed in the active 
substance lot used in the manufacturing of the finished product batch used for bio-equivalence study.The 
analytical  procedures  for  assay/impurities  used  by  the  finished  product  manufacturer  to  test 
teriflunomide active substance are identical to those being followed by active substance manufacturer.  
Batch analysis data on two active batches tested by the finished product manufacturer according to the 
proposed specifications have been presented. The results are within the applied specifications.  
The quality of the reference standards used by the finished product manufacturer are considered suitable 
for their intended use. Further information is deemed unnecessary.  
The finished product manufacturer applies a re-test period of 12 months and storage condition: “Store 
in well-closed containers”.  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
2.2.3.1.  Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product consists of 14 mg immediate release film-coated tablets. The tablets are pale blue 
to pastel blue film-coated, round shaped, biconvex with a diameter of approximately 7.6 mm, debossed 
with “T” on one side and ‘1’ on other side.  
Teriflunomide film-coated tablets are manufactured as single strength of 14 mg, not intended for splitting 
in halves. 
Teriflunomide Mylan 14 mg film-coated tablets have the same qualitative and quantitative composition 
in terms of active substance and the same pharmaceutical form as the reference medicinal product. The 
excipients for pharmaceutical development of the finished product were selected based on the excipients 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 11/33 
 
  
 
 
used in reference product, drug-excipient compatibility study, literature search and prior experience of 
product development.  
The list of excipients is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC. All excipients are well known pharmaceutical 
ingredients.  There  are  no  novel  excipients  used  in  the  finished  product  formulation.  All  compendial 
excipients  – 
lactose  monohydrate,  maize 
starch, 
sodium 
starch  glycolate 
(Type  A), 
hydroxypropylcellulose, cellulose, microcrystalline, silica, colloidal anhydrous, magnesium stearate and 
water, purified - are tested according to the corresponding Ph. Eur. monographs and meet the specified 
requirements.  The  mixture  Opadry  Blue  is  used  as  a  coating  excipient.    The  compatibility  study  data 
showed that Teriflunomide is compatible with all the excipients used. The choice of excipients is justified 
and their functions explained. 
The applicant has performed an assessment for the functionality related characteristics (FRCs) tests for 
excipients used in the formulation. Specifications for lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose and 
magnesium  stearate  are  update to include  particle  size  test  and  specifications  for  colloidal  anhydrous 
silica to include surface area test. 
Colloidal Silicon dioxide is used in the intended commercial formulation in addition to the excipients in 
the  reference  medicinal  product  core  tablet.  The  use  of  this  excipient  is  justified  based  on 
manufacturability  considerations.  In  drug-excipient  compatibility  study  the  degradation  products  for 
teriflunomide  +  colloidal  silicon  dioxide  mixture  remain  low.  Hence,  the  formulation  difference  is 
considered  not  to  be  significant  and  the  composition  of  the  intended  commercial  formulation  is 
acceptable. Teriflunomide 14 mg film-coated tablets are packaged in two different marketing packs i.e. 
either:  
- 
cold form blister pack comprising of cold forming material (OPA/Aluminium/PVC) on one side and 
hard tempered aluminium foil coated with heat seal lacquer on the other side. Blister strips will 
be placed in an outer cardboard carton;  
or in: 
- 
high  density  polyethylene  (HDPE)  bottle  pack  comprising  of  HDPE  bottle  with  white  opaque 
polypropylene (PP) screw closure with aluminium induction sealing liner wad, either placed in an 
outer cardboard carton or provided without a carton. 
The initially intended bulk holding time could not be accepted and consequently the information on bulk 
hold  time  has  been  removed  from  the  dossier  as  well  as  information  on  bulk  packaging  material.The 
finished  product  has  been  developed  to  be  a  generic  equivalent  to  the  reference  medicinal  product 
Aubagio. Consequently, the objective was to prepare a film-coated tablet being essentially similar to the 
reference medicinal product. 
The finished product development was performed through a systematic evaluation using risk assessment 
methodologies. A Quality target product profile (QTPP) and critical quality attributes (CQAs) are used for 
finished product development.  
The  QTPP  for  teriflunomide  tablets  14  mg  are  defined.  The  QTPP  was  to  develop  an  oral  immediate 
release tablet containing 14 mg of teriflunomide bioequivalent to Aubagio 14 mg, with at least 24 months 
shelf life at room temperature in the proposed container closure system.  
The  following  finished  product  CQAs  were  identified:  identification,  assay,  content  uniformity,  related 
substances, dissolution, water content and microbiological test. Content uniformity, related substances, 
and  dissolution  were  further  identified  for  explicit  tracking  in  risk  assessment  given  their  greatest 
potential to be altered by process variables or formulation variables. A summary of the knowledge gained 
throughout  development  experiments  to  production  scale  associated  with  processing  parameters  and 
their  impact  on  critical  quality  attributes  of  film-coated  tablets  has  been  provided.  The  process 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 12/33 
 
  
 
 
compensates for the variability in the material attributes. A control strategy of the material attributes 
and  process  parameters  are  proposed  which  includes  in-process  controls  and  finished  product 
specifications. 
A  summary  of  formulations  used  during  development  is  provided.  Changes  between  the  proposed 
commercial formulation and those used in formulation studies batches are described and the rationale 
for  the  changes  provided.  The  chosen  formulation  adequately  accommodates  the  active  substance’s 
physicochemical properties i.e. solubility, route of administration.  
No polymorphic change has been detected during finished product manufacturing and stability testing. 
Polymorphic identification test by PXRD is included in finished product manufacturer`s active substance 
specification and only one active substance crystalline polymorph form has been identified in the active 
substance studies. It is acceptable that crystalline form is not controlled routinely during finished product 
manufacturing. 
Formulation trials were executed employing different levels of each process variable and evaluated for 
the  affected  CQAs.  The  final  ranges  for  process  parameters  were  determined  based  on  the  results  of 
these studies. From the presented data there are no differences in the manufacturing processes of the 
commercial product and clinical trial material. 
Teriflunomide  film-coated  tablets  are  manufactured  by  standard  processes  of  dry  mixing,  wet 
granulation, drying, milling, blending, compression and film-coating. Wet granulation process was chosen 
due to extremely poor flow nature of the active substance. A similar risk assessment as for formulation 
was conducted to evaluate the risk associated with various process variables.  
According to the biopharmaceutical classification system (BCS), teriflunomide is BCS class II compound, 
with good permeability, but poor solubility. Solubility of teriflunomide varies across the physiological pH 
range  with  low  solubility  acidic  and  neutral  media  (practically  insoluble  in  water).  Solubility  of 
teriflunomide increases at higher pH. This is taken into account in the evaluation of suitability of the in 
vitro  dissolution  method  and  of  the  comparative  dissolution  profiles  submitted  for  investigation  of 
similarity. The applicant has compared three production scale batches of the applied product with the 
reference product Aubagio batch used in BE study in the media selected for dissolution method.  
In  addition,  the  batch  of  the  applied  product  used  in  BE  study  has  been  evaluated  for  similarity  with 
reference product Aubagio BE batch in multimedia. 
All the evaluated batches at all three conditions are similar.  
The  provided  dissolution  profiles  comparison  data  is  considered  sufficient.  Based  on  the  dissolution 
method development studies, the dissolution method for Quality Control was. Considering the physico-
chemical 
characteristics 
of 
the 
active 
substance 
and 
based 
on 
reflection 
paper 
EMA/CHMP/CVMP/QWP/336031/2017 the choice of the method, including rotation speed, is justified.  
The discriminative power of the dissolution method has been adequately demonstrated on two different 
“bad batches” (changed formulation with increased concentration of one of the excipients; manipulation 
in manufacturing). The discriminatory nature of the applied method is demonstrated at relevant time 
points The acceptance criterion was initially applied by the applicant was not considered acceptable given 
the results from the. biobatch and the acceptance criterion in Ph. Eur. Teriflunomide tablets monograph, 
in  place  since  1  April  2022.  Consequently,  the  finished  product  specification  limit  for  dissolution  was 
tightened during the MAA review. Additional data is also presented to prove the revised dissolution limit 
is met in batch analysis and in long term stability studies as well as in accelerated stability studies.  
The selected container closer systems are common for this dosage form. The product will be marketed 
in  cold  form  blisters  (OPA/Aluminium/PVC-Aluminium)  that  is  similar  to  reference  medicinal  product 
packaging material (Al/Al blisters) packages of N28 and N84 and perforated unit dose blisters of N28 x 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 13/33 
 
  
 
 
1, N84 x1 and N98 x 1. Additionally, HDPE bottle with polypropylene (PP) screw closure of N84 and N98 
is  also  proposed  for  marketing.  The  HDPE  bottle  pack  is  not  authorised  for  the  reference  medicinal 
product. The materials comply with Ph.Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure 
system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product.  
2.2.3.2.  Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Teriflunomide film-coated tablets manufacturing process consists of 10 main steps: dispensing of raw 
materials, dry mixing, wet granulation, drying, milling, blending, compression, film-coating, inspection 
and packaging. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process.  
The description of manufacturing process is in line with manufacturing process development provided. 
The  provided  data  are  considered  sufficient  for  manufacturing  procedures  of  conventional  solid  oral 
dosage formulation. The commercial batch scale range has been defined. 
Information about the used equipment, the applied in-process control tests and the process parameters 
are complemented in the manufacturing process narrative to be in line with process validation.  
Process control of critical steps (drying, blending, compression, film coating and packaging) are provided 
together with test methods and acceptance criteria and are considered acceptable to reduce the risks 
identified  during  formulation  and  process  development.  All  relevant  in-process  controls  and  process 
parameters  are  in  line  with  the  acceptable  process  ranges  established  by  manufacturing  process 
validation. The in-process control limit for water has been tightened to be in line with the tightened water 
content limit for finished product at release. 
Major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated by a number of studies on three production 
scale  batches  It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of  producing  the 
finished product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for 
this type of manufacturing process and pharmaceutical form.  
In the manufacturing process validation study the packaging process is mentioned only in the process 
flow-chart  and  no  other  information  that  the  tablets  of  validation  batches  were  finally  packed  in  the 
packages proposed for marketing (HDPE bottle and blister) is available. As the packaging process is one 
step in the finished product manufacturing process, the applicant was requested to clarify this aspect. 
He has confirmed that he will perform process validation studies on the first three maximum production 
scale batch, in line with the process validation scheme presented. Since the manufacturing process is a 
standard process, this is considered sufficient, especially as full scale process validation data, except for 
packaging step, has been provided already for three production scale batches of the lowest production 
batch size. A bulk holding time was proposed by the applicant. To accept the proposed bulk product hold 
time and storage conditions, additional stability study results with a minimum of 1 additional batch are 
required to demonstrate that the product in bulk packaging meets the updated finished product shelf-
life  specification  limits  in  section  3.2.P.5.1  during  the  proposed  hold  time  period  under  the  proposed 
storage  conditions  detailed  in  section  3.2.P.3.3,  when  tested  according  to  the  methods  described  in 
updated section 3.2.P.5.2. Considering that the applicant has stated that this data cannot be provided, 
no storage time and conditions can be confirmed for bulk product and hence the proposed bulk holding 
time cannot be accepted. As such, this information has been removed from the respective sections of 
the dossier. 
The expiration period of a batch is calculated in accordance with the EU guideline Note for Guidance on 
Start of Shelf-Life of the Finished Dosage Form (CPMP/QWP/072/96). 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 14/33 
 
  
 
 
2.2.3.3.  Product specifications  
The specification for batch release and shelf-life includes tests for description and dimensions (visual), 
identification (HPLC, UV), dissolution (UV), uniformity of dosage units (content uniformity) (in-house as 
per  Ph.  Eur.  General  Chapter  2.9.40),  assay  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  water  content  (KF), 
microbial limits and colorants ID (visual, UV). The proposed specifications include all relevant parameters 
to the dosage form. Hardness, average weight and friability are tested as IPC during compression stage, 
this  is  considered  sufficient.  The  specifications  have been  identified  by  a  version  number  and  date  of 
approval.  
During the MAA assessment, a MO was raised on the proposed related substances method, which was 
not suitable to detect one of the specified impurities (with mutagenic potential) at sufficient low level, 
and  the  proposed  specification  limits  for  this  impurity.  As  a  result,  the  originally  proposed  ‘in-house’ 
analytical methods for related substances, assay and identification were updated with methods which 
are  in  line  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for  teriflunomide  tablets.  The  revised  applied  limits  for  the 
specified  impurities  A  and  B  and  for  any  other  impurities  are  in  line  with  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for 
teriflunomide  tablets.  Batch  and  long  term  stability  data  obtained  with  this  newly  proposed  method 
demonstrate that the actual control criteria of this impurity in the finished product is in compliance with 
the Ph. Eur. With this newly proposed method, additional comparison of impurity profiles of reference 
and test product was presented. The obtained data demonstrates that the reference and test product 
are  comparable  in  terms  of  impurity  profile.  The  MO  raised  in  this  aspect  during  the  review  was 
considered resolved. 
As mentioned above, the dissolution specification limit in the finished product release and shelf life was 
tightened during the MAA review in line with the biobatch and recommendations of the reflection paper 
EMA/CHMP/CVMP/QWP/336031/2017.  As  discussed  above,  the  discriminatory  nature  of  the  applied 
dissolution  method  is  demonstrated  for  the  selected  time-point,  both  at  release,  and  long  term  and 
accelerated stability conditions. The control limits for water content were also tightened in the release 
and shelf life specification upon request from the CHMP. The shelf-life limit has been further tightened 
to be in agreement with stability results as well as with the theoretical water content in the tablets to 
guarantee the quality of the finished product during shelf life.  
To assure that the results of dissolution, impurities, including the specified, water content and dissolution 
during stability are within the updated acceptance criteria (in line with the requirements of the Ph. Eur. 
and relevant guidance documents) throughout the proposed shelf-life, additional long term stability data 
was provided during the review using newly applied analytical methods. All the results from the stability 
studies presented meet the updated shelf-life specifications criteria. Also, photostability data using newly 
proposed impurities analytical method was presented with complying results. The relevant stability data 
from accelerated studies is not available, therefore the CHMP recommended to present this data (REC1). 
Analytical procedures have been described in sufficient detail and are adequate to control the finished 
product on a routine basis. 
In  the  original  submission  only  batch  analysis  data of  three  commercial  scale  batches  packed  in  bulk 
packaging were presented. During the procedure also CoAs with the results from the product packed in 
the  commercial  packaging  and  tested  as  per  updated  analysis  method  were  provided,  showing 
compliance to the revised release specifications, including updated methods for impurities, dissolution 
and water content. The revised analytical methods for assay, related substances and identification testing 
according to Ph. Eur. Monograph for teriflunomide tablets (04/2022:3037) are used for testing. 
Overall,  the  revised  specification  limits  and  test  methods  confirm  consistency  and  quality  of  the 
manufacturing process.  
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 15/33 
 
  
 
 
The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed on a risk-based 
approach  according  to  the  ‘ICH  guideline  Q3D  on  elemental  impurities.  Batch  analysis  data  on  three 
finished  product  batches  using  a  validated  method  was  provided,  demonstrating  that  each  relevant 
elemental impurity was not detected above 30% of the respective PDE. Based on the risk assessment 
and  the  presented  batch  data  it  can  be  concluded  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  include  any  elemental 
impurity controls in the finished product specification. 
A  risk  evaluation  concerning  the  presence  of  nitrosamine  impurities  in  the  finished  product  has  been 
performed considering all suspected and actual root causes in line with the “Questions and answers for 
marketing authorisation holders/applicants on the CHMP Opinion for the Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004 referral on nitrosamine impurities in human medicinal products” (EMA/409815/2020) and 
the  “European  Medicines  Regulatory  Network  approach  for  the  implementation  of  the  CHMP  Opinion 
pursuant to Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) Nº 726/2004 for nitrosamine impurities in human medicines 
(EMA/425645/2020). Based on the information provided it is accepted that no risk was identified on the 
possible  presence  of  nitrosamine  impurities  in  the  active  substance  or  the  related  finished  product. 
Therefore, no additional control measures are deemed necessary. 
Information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Considering  that  quantitative  analytical  methods  according  to  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for  teriflunomide 
tablets  are  applied  for  assay,  impurities  and  identification  analytical  testing  now,  Ph.  Eur.  Reference 
standards  for  teriflunomide  assay,  teriflunomide  identity,  leflunomide  impurity  A  and  teriflunomide 
impurity B available from EDQM are to be used for commercial batches testing. 
The selected container closer systems (HDPE bottle and blister packs) are common for the applied dosage 
form. The blister packaging (made of aluminium foil and a foil consisting of polyvinylchloride, aluminium 
and  polyamide)  is  similar  to  the  one  used  for  the  reference  medicinal  product  (aluminium/aluminium 
blister).  Specifications,  method  of  analysis  and  CoA  of  all  primary  packaging  materials  as  well  as 
declarations of compliance, when relevant, with the EU Directive 10/2011 and amendments are provided. 
The  materials  comply  with  Ph.  Eur.  and  EC  requirements.  Additionally,  test  for  dimensions  has  been 
included in HDPE container specification and drawings of the container closure systems presented. 
Quality data regarding the bulk packaging has been provided and is acceptable. However, as indicated 
above, considering that the relevant bulk hold time studies are not available, no bulk hold time can be 
accepted for the product and as such the applicant has updated the respective sections of the Module 3, 
removing bulk hold time and packaging information. 
2.2.3.4.  Stability of the product 
In the original submission, the applicant proposed a 24-month shelf life for the finished product in the 
container proposed for marketing, with no special storage conditions. No in-use shelf life is applied for 
the HDPE bottles.  
The initially proposed storage condition: “This medicinal product does not require any special storage 
conditions” have been updated during the review to “Store below 25°C”.  
For the bulk product a hold time was requested. Stability data from three production scale batches of 
the  finished  product  packed  in  the  primary  packaging  materials  proposed  for  marketing  (blister  and 
bottle packs) and in bulk pack was provided. 
For the finished product packed in bulk packaging 12-months stability data under long term conditions 
(i.e. 25 ºC / 60% RH) and 6-months data under accelerated conditions were provided. The batches were 
only tested as per initially proposed specification methods and limits. However, to accept the bulk hold 
time, it should be demonstrated that product in bulk packaging meets the updated finished product shelf-
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 16/33 
 
  
 
 
life specification limits during the proposed hold time period of 12-months under the proposed storage 
conditions, when tested according to the methods described in updated analytical methods section. As 
discussed above, the proposed bulk holding information has been removed from the dossier. 
24-months stability can be confirmed for product in marketing pack when stored under 25 degrees.  
To support the proposed shelf-life, 24 months data on batches stored under long term conditions (i.e. 
25°C / 60% RH) packed in final packaging material proposed for marketing, tested as per newly proposed 
analysis methods was provided during the review. 6 months stability data under accelerated conditions 
(i.e. 40°C / 75% RH) on finished product packed in marketing packaging materials tested as per initially 
applied  analysis  methods  was  provided.  Although  the  applicant  provided  information  on  dissolution 
results  at  accelerated  conditions  for  the  updated  acceptance  criteria,  that  are  meeting  the  revised 
specification,  no  stability  data  at  accelerated  conditions  tested  as  per  revised  assay  and  related 
substances analysis methods is available.  
Samples  were  tested  for  appearance,  assay  by  HPLC,  related  substances  (degradants)  by  HPLC, 
dissolution by UV, water by Karl-Fisher and microbial quality (at the initial time point, at the 6-month 
time point and annually following long-term conditions as well as after 6 months at accelerated storage 
condition).  
The in-use stability data and photostability data as per initially and also newly applied analysis methods 
has  also  been  provided.  Stability  studies  outside  the  primary  container  (open  pot)  performed  as  per 
initially applied analysis methods are submitted.  
All the stability studies results in the proposed marketing packs tested at long term conditions using the 
newly  proposed  analytical  methods  are  in  accordance  with  the  newly  applied  specification  limits.  The 
results  in  photostability  data  and  in  in-use  stability  data  demonstrate  also  compliance  with  shelf-life 
specification. No in-use shelf-life is applied in the product information for HDPE bottles. This is acceptable 
and endorsed as in-use stability is not critical for the applied formulation of solid oral dosage form. 
Consequently, the proposed shelf-life of 24 months can be accepted. However, as there is lack in results 
obtained  under  accelerated  conditions  the  initially  applied  storage  conditions  “This  medicinal  product 
does not require any special storage conditions” as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) cannot be confirmed 
yet. The currently available data at accelerated conditions obtained with initially applied analysis method 
for  related  substances  (not  capable  to  detect  a  specified  impurity  at  sufficiently  low  level)  cannot  be 
considered  adequate  and  hence  only  storage  below  25  degrees  protected  from  light  can  be  accepted 
now. The storage conditions defined in the SmPC (section 6.3) and section 3.2.P.8.1 have been revised 
accordingly.  
Since the applied special storage condition “Store below 25°C” pose unnecessary burden for the users 
an  accelerated  stability  study,  as  well  as  intermediate  stability  study,  using  the  revised  analytical 
methods for assay and related substances should be initiated to evaluate whether all the parameters 
meet the acceptance criteria as established in the updated finished product shelf life specifications also 
under those conditions. In case the results from the accelerated and/or intermediate conditions confirm 
that the finished product does not need restrictions in storage condition (“Store below 25°C”), a variation 
application supported by relevant stability data to update storage conditions should be submitted (REC1). 
The corresponding post-approval stability commitment has been taken by the applicant and is presented 
in section 3.2.P.8.2. and 1.1.6. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 2 years and storage condition: ‘store below 
25°C’ as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable. 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 17/33 
 
  
 
 
2.2.3.5.  Post approval change management protocols 
n/a 
2.2.3.6.  Adventitious agents 
It  is  confirmed  that  the  lactose  is  produced  from  milk  from  healthy  animals  in  the  same  condition  as 
those used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the 
use of ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the 
Risk  of  Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agents  Via  Human  and  veterinary  medicinal 
products. 
No other excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The product is a generic of Aubagio. Information about the synthesis process and the control mechanisms 
for the active substance is provided in the form of the ASMF. 
There is Ph. Eur. teriflunomide tablets monograph, in place since 1 April 2022.  
All issues raised on applicant’s and restricted parts of the ASMF have been sufficiently resolved.  
A  major  objection  that  was  raised  regarding  the  finished  product  quality  is  resolved  as  well  as  other 
concerns. A post approval commitment on stability investigations has been taken by the applicant.  
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issue having no impact on the 
Benefit/Risk ratio of the product, which pertains to the lack of intermediate and accelerated stability 
studies using the finished product specification analytical methods which were revised during the 
marketing authorization review to confirm whether the finished product storage condition restriction is 
necessary. The point is put forward and agreed as a recommendation for future quality development. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
been presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress. 
the CHMP recommends the following point for investigation: 
- Since the applied special storage condition “Store below 25°C” pose unnecessary burden for the users 
an  accelerated  stability  study,  as  well  as  intermediate  stability  study,  using  the  revised  analytical 
methods for assay and related substances should be initiated to evaluate whether all the parameters 
meet the acceptance criteria as established in the updated finished product shelf life specifications also 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 18/33 
 
  
 
 
under those conditions. In case the results from the accelerated and/or intermediate conditions confirm 
that the finished product does not need restrictions in storage condition (“Store below 25°C”), a variation 
application  supported  by  relevant  stability  data  to  update  storage  conditions  should  be  submitted.  A 
commitment has been taken by the Applicant. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The Applicant has provided in the ERA report in addition to Phase I PECsw calculation based on annual 
consumption data (resulting in PECsw 0,002145 µg/L) also Phase I assessment based on European 
disease prevalence data (resulting in PECsw 0,00798 µg/L, if all cases would be theoretically treated 
with teriflunomide). Although prevalence is given for Europe, not by EU Member States, PECsw based 
on annual consumption data was given for the Member State with highest Fpen (Denmark in 2019). As 
approximately 9% of the theoretically eligible European patients are currently treated with 
teriflunomide, it is unlikely to achieve PECsw higher than 0,003 µg/L, even if the introduction of 
generic teriflunomide products should trigger a change of current treatment guidelines and accordingly 
increase in prescription in Member States with lower consumption of teriflunomide. Phase II 
environmental fate and effects analysis are not necessary as action limit 0,01 µg/L would be not 
exceeded with introduction of a new generic product 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical overview is based on published literature data. This is considered acceptable by CHMP 
since teriflunomide is a well-known active substance and bioequivalence is claimed to the reference 
product. The SmPC of the proposed drug product is identical to the reference product.   
The applicant has provided data to substantiate the claim that an increase in environmental exposure 
of the active substance is not to be expected. The ERA is considered acceptable. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
CHMP concluded that the non-clinical information submitted as part of this application supports the use 
of Teriflunomide Mylan in the approved indication. 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 19/33 
 
  
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing teriflunomide. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with parallel design under 
fasting conditions.  
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) in its 
current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP aspect 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study. 
2.4.2.  Clinical pharmacology 
2.4.2.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
Study Protocol ID: CLCD-095-19, Mylan Protocol No: TERI-1-19134, Project ID: RP.19.0655: 
A randomized, balanced, two-treatment, single period, single oral dose, parallel, pivotal, 
bioequivalence study of Teriflunomide 14 mg film-coated tablets of Mylan Laboratories 
Limited, India, with AUBAGIO® (Teriflunomide) 14 mg film-coated tablets, of Sanofi-aventis 
groupe, France, in healthy adult male subjects, under fasting condition. 
Methods 
•  Study design  
Study  no.  TERI-1-19134 was  a  randomized,  balanced,  two-treatment,  single period,  single oral  dose, 
parallel bioequivalence study in healthy, adult subjects under fasting conditions. Each subject received 
either  a  single,  oral  dose  of  14  mg  of  teriflunomide  test  product  or  the  reference  product  AUBAGIO® 
according to the randomization scheme. 
Food and fluid intake 
Subjects  were  confined  to  the  clinical  facility  at  least  11  hours  prior  to  drug  administration.  After  an 
overnight fast of at least 8 hours, subjects were administered a single 14 mg dose as a tablet of either 
the test or the reference product. Drug administration was assisted with 150 mL of ambient temperature 
water. 
During confinement study hours, when fluids were not restricted, subjects were allowed water ad libitum, 
however, general water consumption was controlled. No fluid except that given with drug administration 
was allowed from 1 hour prior to dose administration to 1 hour following dose administration. 
A  standard  low-fat  dinner  was  provided  on  the  evening  prior  to  dosing.  The  subjects  were  in  fasting 
condition for at least 8 hours prior to dosing and until 4 hours after dosing. On dosing day standard low-
fat meals were provided during confinement to the clinic at 4.00, 8.00 and 12.00 h post-dose. On the 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 20/33 
 
  
 
 
next days standardized meals were served at appropriate times i.e around 8 am, 12 noon, 4 pm and 8 
pm.  All  meals  during  the  study  were  free  from  broccoli,  Brussels  sprouts,  char-grilled  meat, 
pomegranate, Seville oranges, star fruit, grapefruit and grapefruit-, xanthine-, and caffeine-containing 
products.  
Sampling schedule 
22 blood samples (1 x 4 mL) were collected from each subject during each period for the assessment of 
teriflunomide in plasma. Blood collections were performed prior to the administration of study medication 
(0; pre-dose within a period of 1 hours before the dosing) and at 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, 1.00, 1.25, 1.50, 
1.75, 2.00, 2.25, 2.50, 3.00, 3.50, 4.00, 5.00, 6.00, 8.00, 10.00, 12.00, 24.00, 48.00 and 72.00 hours 
following study drug administration.  
In order to reduce the risk of toxicity and to accelerate the elimination procedure of teriflunomide from 
the  body,  subjects  were  administered  8  g  of  cholestyramine  powder  three  times  a  day  for  11  days 
starting  from  Day  5  (after  the  72.00  h  post-dose  blood  sample  collection)  to Day  15  with  150  mL  of 
mango juice. A total dose of 24 g/day was administered to the subjects per day. A single blood sample 
of 2 mL was withdrawn from each subject through direct venipuncture on Day 16 in order to estimate 
teriflunomide  blood  level  concentration.  Additional  blood  samples  were  collected  after  day  16  if  the 
desired safer level of teriflunomide concentration was not achieved. The acceptable concentration limit 
of teriflunomide was < 20 ng/mL. The subjects were allowed to leave the clinical facility after the day 16 
blood sample collection. 
Approximately 113 mL of blood per subject was collected from each subject over the course of the 
study 
•  Test and reference products  
Test Product: Teriflunomide film-coated tablets 14 mg by Mylan Laboratories Limited 
Reference  Product:  AUBAGIO®  14  mg  film-coated  tablets  by  sanofi-aventis  groupe,  Paris,  France 
(manufactured by Sanofi Winthrop Industrie, Tours, France);  
•  Population(s) studied 
A  total  of  48  healthy  male  subjects  (not  Hispanic  ethnicity,  aged  19  –  43  years,  BMI  19.00  –  30.00 
kg/m2) were included in the study. Only non-smokers were allowed in this study.  
All 48 subjects completed both study phases and were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical 
analysis.  
Drop outs: There were no drop-outs in the study.  
One subject withdrew consent after completion of all pharmacokinetic samples due to personal reasons 
•  Analytical methods 
Teriflunomide concentrations in plasma samples of the study subjects were analysed using a validated 
LC-MS/MS method over a concentration range of 7.521 to 4998.450 ng/mL. Teriflunomide D4 was used 
as an internal standard. 
Blood samples were collected into pre-chilled K2EDTA tubes and centrifuged at 3500 rpm for 10 minutes 
at 4°C ± 2°C.  After the samples had been transferred into polypropylene tubes they were stored at -
70°C ± 10°C until assay. Study drug was extracted from 100 µl of plasma using protein precipitation 
technique. From instrumentation HPLC System from Shimadzu Prominence, Agilent 1100 series, mass 
spectrometer  API  4000  and  API  4000  QTrap,  MDS  Sciex  from  Applied  Biosystems  and  Applied  Bio-
systems/MDS  SCIEX  Analyst  Version  1.4.2  and  1.6.1  for  data  processing  were  used.  The  bioanalyses 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 21/33 
 
  
 
 
were carried out between Oct 22, 2020 and Dec 17, 2020. The bioanalytical report was released and 
signed on Feb 01, 2021. 
Method validation: 
The HPLC-MS/MS method was validated over a concentration range of 7.512 ng/mL to 5002.963 ng/mL 
of teriflunomide with LLOQ 7.512 ng/mL. The calibration standard curve was composed of 10 non-zero 
levels:  7.512,  15.009,  50.030,  100.059,  250.148,  500.296,  1000.593,  2001.185,  4002.370  and 
5002.963 ng/mL of teriflunomide. The 6 QC sample concentrations at LOQQC 7.512 ng/mL, LQC 21.251 
ng/mL, LMQC 494.209 ng/mL, MQC 996.805 ng/mL, HQC 3993.610 and DIQC 15974.441 ng/mL were 
used throughout the validation. The analytical recovery from plasma was 99.24% for teriflunomide and 
94.88% for teriflunomide D4. 
Method performance characteristics were following: 
Within-run precision (%CV)  
Within-run accuracy (%Bias)  
Between-run precision (%CV)  
Between-run accuracy (%Bias) 
0.53% to 2.38% 
LLOQC: 1.78% to 1.90% 
-3.56% to 5.12% 
LLOQC: -5.48% to -0.97% 
1.22% to 3.45% 
LLOQC: 2.52% 
-0.91% to 3.58% 
LLOQC: -2.45% 
Dilution integrity accuracy 1/4 dilution (%Bias)  0.85%  
Dilution integrity precision 1/4 dilution (%CV)  
3.45% 
The  linear  calibration  curve  calculated  by  weighted  linear  regression  (weight  =  1/x2)  was  used  for 
calculation of sample concentration. 
Pre-study validation and bio-analytical report were provided. The method selectivity and sensitivity were 
demonstrated. Stability of analytes at various conditions during storage, sample preparation and analysis 
was  shown  according  to  the  requirements  for  bio-analytical  method  validation.  Dilution  integrity, 
carryover and matrix effect were tested. Composition of analytical runs has been described. 
Study sample analysis:  
A total of 1109 samples including 1056 study samples and 53 safety samples were received and analysed 
in 23 analytical runs.  
Calibration curve standards:  
Calibration curve ranged from 7.521 to 4988.450 ng/ml of teriflunomide. Accuracy (%Bias) and precision 
(CV%) were -6.31% to 3.72% and 1.42 to 2.68%, respectively. Correlation coefficients (r) were equal 
to or greater than 0.9950 in analytical runs. Number of successful calibration curves used with the study 
samples was 23.  
QC samples: 
The quality control (QC) concentrations were 7.521 (LOQ QC), 19.463 (LQC), 486.585 (LMQC), 1949.460 
(MQC), 3898.920 (HQC) and 15595.679 (DIQC) ng/mL for study sample analysis. Between-run precision 
(CV%) and accuracy (%Bias) were 0.57% to 3.59% and 0.09 to 10.42 %, respectively. No QC samples 
were rejected during the sample analysis. 
Number of failed batches: 0 
Number of re-injected batches: 0 
Number of re-integrated batches: 0 
Number of individual samples re-injected: 1 
Number of individual samples re-integrated: 0 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 22/33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reanalysis of study samples: 1 (0.09% of 1056 study samples) sample was re-assayed for analytical 
reasons (internal standard variation).  
Incurred sample reanalysis: conducted on 110 samples (10.42 % of 1056 study samples). 100% of the 
concentrations obtained by reanalysis were found within 20% of their mean initial value. 
Long-term stability of samples: The maximum study sample storage period from first blood draw (Oct 
15,  2020)  to  last  sample  analysis  (Dec  17,  2020)  was  64  days.  The  long-term  stability  data  of 
teriflunomide in human plasma covers 64 days at -70 ± 10°C (Addendum II). 
All  concentration  values  below  limit  of  quantification  were  set  as  zero  for  PK  analysis.  The  same 
equipment was used at analysis of samples and precision and accuracy validation. The number of QC 
samples was adequate, i.e. at least two QC sets or at least 5% of the total number of subject samples. 
•  Pharmacokinetic variables 
Primary pharmacokinetic parameters: Cmax and AUC0-72 
Secondary pharmacokinetic parameters: Tmax 
•  Statistical methods 
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  teriflunomide were  calculated  from  the plasma  concentration  vs. 
time profile using Phoenix® WinNonlin® Version 8.1 (Certara L.P., USA). Statistical comparison of the 
pharmacokinetic parameters was carried out using SAS® Version 9.4 (SAS Institute Inc., USA) to assess 
the bioequivalence between test and reference formulations. 
PK parameters for each individual were tabulated and graphically presented. Actual time-points of the 
sample  collection  were  used  for  the  calculation  of  PK  parameters.  All  concentration  values  below  the 
lower limit of quantification were set to zero for the pharmacokinetic and statistical calculations.  
The  log-transformed  pharmacokinetic  parameters  (Cmax  and  AUC0-72)  were  analyzed  using  analysis  of 
variance (ANOVA). ANOVA was performed using PROC MIXED with the main/fixed effect of formulation. 
Formulation  effect  was  tested  at  the  0.05  level  of  significance.  Each  analysis  of  variance  included 
calculation of least-square means. Ratio and 90% confidence interval (Schuirmann’s two one-sided test) 
based on root mean square error obtained from ANOVA were calculated for Cmax and AUC0-72 using log-
transformed  data.  Inter-subject  variability  was  computed  for  ln-transformed  pharmacokinetic 
parameters Cmax and AUC0-72 of teriflunomide. 
Criteria for conclusion of bioequivalence: 
The test product is considered as bioequivalent to the reference product if the 90% confidence intervals 
for  the  geometric  least  square  mean  ratios  from  ln-transformed  parameters  Cmax  and  AUC0-72  of 
teriflunomide falls within the acceptance range of 80.00-125.00%. 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 23/33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Table 1: Pharmacokinetic parameters for teriflunomide (non-transformed values) 
Test N=24 
Reference N=24 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
geometric mean 
 CV% 
geometric mean 
 CV% 
AUC(0-72) 
105478.582 
± 13096.1161 
105757.457 
± 12710.9119 
(ng*h/mL) 
104692.336 
12.42% 
105015.952 
12.02% 
Cmax 
2363.783 
± 369.7160 
2400.545 
± 414.0774 
(ng/mL) 
2337.259 
15.64% 
2365.415 
17.25% 
Tmax* 
(h) 
1.75 
0.50 - 3.50 
1.38 
0.50 - 4.00 
AUC0-72   
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 72 h  
Cmax  
Tmax  
maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Table 2: Statistical analysis for teriflunomide (ln-transformed values) 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
Pharmacokinetic 
Test/Reference 
parameter 
AUC(0-72)  
Cmax  
(%) 
99.69 
98.81 
*  estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
Confidence Intervals 
(%) 
Inter-Subject CV%* 
93.89 – 105.85 
91.20 – 107.05 
12.41 
16.64 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 24/33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Mean plasma concentration vs. time curve for teriflunomide after administration of 
test (A) and reference (B) formulations to healthy subjects (N=24) 
Figure 3: Semi-logarithmic plot of mean plasma concentration vs. time curve for 
teriflunomide after administration of test (A) and reference (B) formulations to healthy 
subjects (N=24) 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 25/33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the ANOVA results, formulation effect was found to be statistically insignificant on ln-
transformed scale for Cmax and AUC0-72. 
•  Safety data 
A total of 11 adverse events (AEs) were reported in 10 subjects during this study. All adverse events 
were mild to moderate/severe in severity.  
4 AEs (constipation – 2, pruritus – 1, drug eruption – 1) were reported after administration of the test 
product. Drug eruption was evaluated as possibly related and constipation and pruritus unlikely to be 
related to the drug treatment. 
2 AEs (constipation – 1, gastritis – 1) were reported after administration of the reference product. Both 
AEs were evaluated to be unlikely related to the drug treatment. 
During post-study safety assessment 5 AEs (hepatic enzyme increased – 3, blood triglycerides increased 
– 2). These AEs were classified as possibly related to the study drug treatment. 
No serious AEs and deaths were reported during the study and in post study safety assessment. 
2.4.2.2.  Pharmacokinetic conclusion   
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study,  Teriflunomide  film-coated  tablets  14  mg  by  Mylan 
Laboratories Limited, are considered bioequivalent with Aubagio14 mg film-coated tablets manufactured 
by sanofi-aventis groupe, France.  
2.4.2.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application.  
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
One single dose parallel bioequivalence study under fasting conditions was submitted to demonstrate 
bioequivalence with the reference product Aubagio 14 mg film-coated tablets marketed by sanofi-aventis 
groupe, Paris, France. According to the SmPC of the reference product, teriflunomide can be taken with 
or without food. Therefore, the conduct of the single dose study under fasting condition as most sensitive 
condition to detect a potential difference between formulations is justified and in accordance with the 
relevant guidelines. Parallel study design is considered appropriate considering the very slow elimination 
of teriflunomide. 
Overall  study  design  is  acceptable  and  in  line  with  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  teriflunomide.  The 
bioequivalence study was conducted under standardised conditions. The sampling period was sufficient 
and the sampling time schedule adequate taking into account the tmax of teriflunomide. The sampling 
schedule  reached  up  to  72  hours  and  a  longer  period  than  that  is  not  considered  necessary  for  any 
immediate release formulation irrespective of half-life of the drug. 
Data  regarding  the  test  and  reference  product  were  sufficient.  The  in  vitro  dissolution  tests 
complimentary to the bioequivalence study comparing the in vitro dissolution similarity between the test 
and reference product bio-batches demonstrated similar drug release over the physiological pH range 
and QC media 
The  population  was  chosen  according  to  the  guidelines.  Bioanalytical  method  had  satisfactory 
performance and was adequately validated. The pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 26/33 
 
  
 
 
appropriate  for  a  single  dose  parallel  study.  The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  ln-transformed 
pharmacokinetic  variables  Cmax  and  AUC0-72  were  within  the  conventional  bioequivalence  range  of 
80.00% to 125.00%. 
The pharmacokinetic variables for teriflunomide were comparable between test and reference product. 
Both formulations were well tolerated in the study. 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study, Teriflunomide film-coated tablets 14 mg by Mylan 
Laboratories Limited, is considered bioequivalent with Aubagio 14 mg film-coated tablets manufactured 
by sanofi-aventis groupe, France. 
2.5.  Risk Management Plan 
2.5.1.  Safety concerns  
Table 3: Summary of safety concerns 
2.5.2.  Pharmacovigilance plan  
No additional pharmacovigilance activities. 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 27/33 
 
  
 
 
 
2.5.3.  Risk minimisation measures 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 28/33 
 
  
 
 
 
2.5.4.  Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.3 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance  
2.6.1.  Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.6.2.  Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
(viual presentation) and in textual content to AUBAGIO 14 mg film-coated tablets. The bridging report 
submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 29/33 
 
  
 
 
 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a generic version of teriflunomide film-coated tablets. The reference product 
Aubagio is indicated for the treatment of adult patients and paediatric patients aged 10 years and older 
with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. No nonclinical studies have been provided for this 
application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance 
was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain 
new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the 
active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from 
published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a randomized, balanced, two-treatment, single 
period, single oral dose, parallel bioequivalence study in healthy, adult subjects under fasting 
conditions. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this 
formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling 
points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was 
validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of [applied product] met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with the [reference product]. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the 
parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-72h, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance 
range of [range, e.g. 80.00 to 125.00%]. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
decision that the benefit-risk balance of Teriflunomide Mylan is favourable in the following indication: 
Teriflunomide Mylan is indicated for the treatment of adult patients and paediatric patients aged 
10 years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) (please refer to section 5.1 for 
important information on the population for which efficacy has been established). 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
•  Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 30/33 
 
  
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and 
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
•  Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch in each Member State the MAH shall agree an educational programme with the National 
Competent Authority. 
The MAH shall ensure that, following discussion and agreement with the National Competent 
Authorities in each Member State where teriflunomide is marketed, at launch and after launch, all 
healthcare professionals who are expected to use teriflunomide are provided with the following items: 
•  Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) 
• 
• 
Educational material for Healthcare professionals 
Patient Education Card 
The educational material for HealthCare Professionals (HCP) will include the following key elements: 
1.  HCPs should discuss with their patients the specific safety concerns of teriflunomide detailed 
below including the tests and precautions needed for safe use at first prescription, and 
regularly during treatment as follows: 
•  Risk of hepatic effects 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Liver function tests are needed prior to the start of treatment and periodically during 
treatment. 
To educate the patient about the signs and symptoms of liver disease and the need to report to 
their HCP if they experience any of them. 
Potential risk of teratogenicity 
To remind women of child-bearing potential (WOCP) including adolescents/their parents-
caregivers that teriflunomide is contraindicated in pregnant women and in WOCP not using an 
effective contraception during and after treatment. 
To assess regularly the potential for pregnancy in female patients including patients below 18 
years old. 
To tell female children and/or parents/caregivers of female children about the need to contact 
the prescribing physician once the female child under teriflunomide treatment experiences 
menses. Counselling should be provided to the new patients of child-bearing potential about 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 31/33 
 
  
 
 
 
contraception and the potential risk to the foetus. 
• 
To check pregnancy status before starting treatment. 
• 
• 
• 
To educate female patients of child-bearing potential on the need for effective contraception 
during and after treatment with teriflunomide. 
To remind patients to inform their doctor immediately if they stop contraception, or prior to 
changing contraceptive measures. 
If female patients become pregnant despite using contraceptive measures, they should stop 
teriflunomide and contact their doctor immediately who should: 
•  Consider and discuss with the patient the accelerated elimination procedure, 
• 
Encourage them to enrol in a pregnancy registry (in countries where a pregnancy registry is 
on-going), 
•  Contact the National Registry Coordinator in the respective country who manages the 
enrolment of patient in the pregnancy registry (in countries where a pregnancy registry is on-
going). 
•  Risk of hypertension 
• 
• 
To check for a history of hypertension and that blood pressure should be appropriately 
managed during treatment. 
The need for blood pressure checks before treatment and periodically during treatment. 
•  Risk of haematologic effects  
• 
To discuss the risk of decreased blood cell counts (affecting mainly white blood cells) and the 
need for complete blood cell counts before treatment and periodically during treatment based 
on signs and symptoms. 
•  Risk of infections/serious infections 
• 
To discuss the need to contact the doctor in the event of signs/symptoms of infection, or if the 
patient takes other medicines that affect the immune system. If serious infection occurs, 
consider the accelerated elimination procedure. 
2.  A reminder to provide patients/legal representative with a Patient Education Card, including 
filling-in their contact details, and to provide replacement Patient Education Cards as 
necessary. 
3.  A reminder to discuss the Patient Education Card content with the patient/legal representative 
regularly at each consultation at least annually during treatment. 
4.  To encourage patients to contact their MS physician and/or General Practitioner if they 
experience any of the signs and symptoms discussed in the Patient Education Card. 
5.  Information on the optional service of a periodic reminder to patients on the MS One to One 
website about the continued need for effective contraception during treatment. 
6.  At prescription renewal, adverse events are checked, ongoing risks and their prevention are 
discussed, and checks are made to ensure adequate monitoring is taking place. 
The educational card for the patients is aligned with labelling information and includes the following 
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 32/33 
 
  
 
 
 
key elements: 
1.  A reminder for both patients and all HCPs involved in their treatment that the patient is being 
treated with teriflunomide, a medicine which: 
•  Should not be used in pregnant women. 
•  Requires concomitant use of effective contraception in women of child-bearing 
potential. 
•  Requires a pregnancy status check before treatment. 
•  Affects liver function. 
•  Affects blood cell counts and the immune system. 
2.  Information to educate the patient about important side effects: 
• 
To pay attention to certain signs and symptoms which might indicate liver disease, or infection, 
and if any of these occur, to contact their doctor/HCP promptly. 
• 
To remind female patients to tell their doctor if breast-feeding. 
•  A reminder for women of child-bearing potential including girls and their parents/ 
caregivers: 
• 
• 
• 
to use effective contraception during and after treatment with teriflunomide. 
that your doctor will provide counselling on the potential risks to the foetus and on the need 
for effective contraception. 
to stop treatment with teriflunomide immediately if they suspect they might be pregnant and 
also to contact their doctor immediately. 
•  A reminder for parents / caregivers or girls: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
to contact your doctor when the girl experiences menses for the first time in order to 
get counselling about the potential risk to the foetus and the need for contraception. 
If women of child-bearing potential become pregnant: 
To remind both patients and HCPs about the accelerated elimination procedure. 
To remind both patients and HCP about the Pregnancy Registry (in countries where 
pregnancy registry is on-going). 
• 
To remind patients to show the Patient Education Card to Doctors/HCPs involved with their 
medical care (especially in the event of medical emergencies and/or if new Doctors/HCPs are 
involved). 
• 
• 
To record the first date of prescription and the contact details of their prescriber. 
To encourage the patients to read the PIL thoroughly.  
EMA/CHMP/792181/2022  
Page 33/33 
 
  
 
 
