ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each dose of 80 microliters contains 20 micrograms of teriparatide.  
Each pre-filled pen of 2.4 ml contains 600 micrograms of teriparatide (corresponding to 
250 micrograms per ml). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection  
Clear, colourless solution free from visible particles. 
The pH is between 3.8 and 4.5. The osmolality is between 250 to 350 mOsmol. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Teriparatide SUN is indicated in adults. 
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture (see 
section 5.1). In postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral and non- 
vertebral fractures but not hip fractures has been demonstrated. 
Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and 
men at increased risk for fracture (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose of teriparatide is 20 micrograms administered once daily. 
The maximum total duration of treatment with teriparatide should be 24 months (see section 4.4). The 
24-month course of teriparatide should not be repeated over a patient’s lifetime. 
Patients should receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D supplements if dietary intake is 
inadequate. 
Following cessation of teriparatide therapy, patients may be continued on other osteoporosis therapies.  
Special populations 
Elderly patients 
Dose adjustment based on age is not required (see section 5.2). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
Teriparatide must not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (see section 4.3). In patients 
with moderate renal impairment, teriparatide should be used with caution. No special caution is 
required for patients with mild renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
No data are available in patients with impaired hepatic function (see section 5.3). Therefore, 
teriparatide should be used with caution. 
Paediatric population and young adults with open epiphyses 
The safety and efficacy of teriparatide in children and adolescents less than 18 years has not been 
established. Teriparatide SUN should not be used in paediatric patients (less than 18 years), or young 
adults with open epiphyses. 
Method of administration 
Teriparatide SUN should be administered once daily by subcutaneous injection in the thigh or 
abdomen. 
Patients must be trained to use the proper injection techniques (see section 6.6). Please also refer to the 
pen user manual for instructions on the correct use of the pen at the end of the package leaflet. 
4.3  Contraindications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
pregnancy and breast-feeding (see sections 4.4 and 4.6) 
pre-existing hypercalcaemia 
severe renal impairment 
metabolic bone diseases (including hyperparathyroidism and Paget’s disease of the bone) 
other than primary osteoporosis or glucorticoid-induced osteoporosis. 
unexplained elevations of alkaline phosphatase 
prior external beam or implant radiation therapy to the skeleton 
patients with skeletal malignancies or bone metastases should be excluded from treatment 
with teriparatide. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and batch number of 
the administered medicinal product should be clearly recorded. 
Serum and urine calcium 
In normocalcaemic patients, slight and transient elevations of serum calcium concentrations have been 
observed following teriparatide injection. Serum calcium concentrations reach a maximum between 
4 and 6 hours and return to baseline by 16 to 24 hours after each dose of teriparatide. Therefore, if 
blood samples for serum calcium measurements are taken, this should be done at least 16 hours after 
the most recent teriparatide injection. Routine calcium monitoring during therapy is not required. 
Teriparatide may cause small increases in urinary calcium excretion, but the incidence of 
hypercalciuria did not differ from that in the placebo-treated patients in clinical trials. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Urolithiasis 
Teriparatide has not been studied in patients with active urolithiasis. Teriparatide should be used with 
caution in patients with active or recent urolithiasis because of the potential to exacerbate this 
condition. 
Orthostatic hypotension 
In short-term clinical trials with teriparatide, isolated episodes of transient orthostatic hypotension 
were observed. Typically, an event began within 4 hours of dosing and spontaneously resolved within 
a few minutes to a few hours. When transient orthostatic hypotension occurred, it happened within the 
first several doses, was relieved by placing subjects in a reclining position, and did not preclude 
continued treatment. 
Renal impairment 
Caution should be exercised in patients with moderate renal impairment. 
Younger adult population 
Experience in the younger adult population, including premenopausal women, is limited (see 
section 5.1). Treatment should only be initiated if the benefit clearly outweighs risks in this 
population. 
Women of childbearing potential should use effective methods of contraception during use of 
teriparatide. If pregnancy occurs, teriparatide should be discontinued. 
Duration of treatment 
Studies in rats indicate an increased incidence of osteosarcoma with long-term administration of 
teriparatide (see section 5.3). Until further clinical data become available, the recommended treatment 
time of 24 months should not be exceeded. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per maximum daily dose, that is to 
say ‘sodium- free’. 
4.5 
Interactions with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
In a study of 15 healthy subjects administered digoxin daily to steady state, a single teriparatide dose 
did not alter the cardiac effect of digoxin. However, sporadic case reports have suggested that 
hypercalcaemia may predispose patients to digitalis toxicity. Because teriparatide transiently increases 
serum calcium, teriparatide should be used with caution in patients taking digitalis. 
Teriparatide has been evaluated in pharmacodynamic interaction studies with hydrochlorothiazide. No 
clinically significant interactions were noted. 
Co-administration of raloxifene or hormone replacement therapy with teriparatide did not alter the 
effects of teriparatide on serum or urine calcium or on clinical adverse events. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in females 
Women of childbearing potential should use effective methods of contraception during use of 
teriparatide. If pregnancy occurs, teriparatide should be discontinued. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
Teriparatide SUN is contraindicated for use during pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Breast-feeding 
Teriparatide SUN is contraindicated for use during breast-feeding. It is not known whether teriparatide 
is excreted in human milk. 
Fertility 
Studies in rabbits have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The effect of teriparatide on 
human foetal development has not been studied. The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Teriparatide SUN has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Transient, 
orthostatic hypotension or dizziness was observed in some patients. These patients should refrain from 
driving or the use of machines until symptoms have subsided. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients treated with teriparatide are nausea, pain in 
limb, headache and dizziness. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Of patients in the teriparatide trials, 82.8 % of the teriparatide patients and 84.5 % of the placebo 
patients reported at least 1 adverse event. 
The adverse reactions associated with the use of teriparatide in osteoporosis clinical trials and post- 
marketing exposure are summarised in the table below. The following convention has been used for 
the classification of the adverse reactions: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to <1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to <1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to <1/1 000) very rare (<1/10 000). 
Table 1. Adverse reaction 
MedDRA system organ class  Adverse reaction 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorder 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Anaemia 
Frequency 
Common 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Anaphylaxis 
Hypercholesterolaemia 
Hypercalcaemia greater than 
2.76 mmol/l, hyperuricemia 
Hypercalcaemia greater than 
3.25 mmol/l 
Depression 
Dizziness, headache, sciatica, 
syncope 
Vertigo 
Palpitations 
Tachycardia 
Hypotension 
5 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system organ class  Adverse reaction 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Dyspnoea 
Emphysema 
Nausea, vomiting, hiatus 
hernia, gastroesophageal reflux 
disease 
Haemorrhoids 
Sweating increased 
Pain in limb 
Muscle cramps 
Myalgia, arthralgia, back 
cramp/pain* 
Urinary incontinence, polyuria, 
micturition urgency, 
nephrolithiasis 
Renal failure/impairment 
Fatigue, chest pain, asthenia, 
mild and transient injection site 
events, including pain, 
swelling, erythema, localised 
bruising, pruritis and minor 
bleeding at injection site 
Injection site erythema, 
injection site reaction 
Possible allergic events soon 
after injection: acute dyspnoea, 
oro/facial oedema, generalised 
urticaria, chest pain, oedema 
(mainly peripheral) 
Weight increased, cardiac 
murmur, alkaline phosphatase 
increase 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
* Serious cases of back cramp or pain have been reported within minutes of the injection. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In clinical trials the following reactions were reported at a ≥ 1 % difference in frequency from placebo: 
vertigo, nausea, pain in limb, dizziness, depression, dyspnoea. 
Teriparatide increases serum uric acid concentrations. In clinical trials, 2.8 % of teriparatide patients 
had serum uric acid concentrations above the upper limit of normal compared with 0.7 % of placebo 
patients. However, the hyperuricemia did not result in an increase in gout, arthralgia, or urolithiasis. 
In a large clinical trial, antibodies that cross-reacted with teriparatide were detected in 2.8 % of women 
receiving teriparatide. Generally, antibodies were first detected following 12 months of treatment and 
diminished after withdrawal of therapy.  There was no evidence of hypersensitivity reactions, allergic 
reactions, effects on serum calcium, or effects on Bone Mineral Density (BMD) response. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Signs and symptoms 
Teriparatide has been administered in single doses of up to 100 micrograms and in repeated doses of 
up to 60 micrograms/day for 6 weeks. 
The effects of overdose that might be expected include delayed hypercalcaemia and risk of orthostatic 
hypotension. Nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and headache can also occur. 
Overdose experience based on post-marketing spontaneous reports 
In post-marketing spontaneous reports, there have been cases of medication error where the entire 
contents (up to 800 mcg) of the teriparatide pen have been administered as a single dose. Transient 
events reported have included nausea, weakness/lethargy and hypotension. In some cases, no adverse 
events occurred as a result of the overdose. No fatalities associated with overdose have been reported. 
Overdose management 
There is no specific antidote for teriparatide. Treatment of suspected overdose should include 
transitory discontinuation of teriparatide, monitoring of serum calcium, and implementation of 
appropriate supportive measures, such as hydration. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group: Calcium homeostasis, parathyroid hormones and analogues, ATC 
code:H05AA02. 
Mechanism of action 
Endogenous 84-amino-acid parathyroid hormone (PTH) is the primary regulator of calcium and 
phosphate metabolism in bone and kidney. Teriparatide (rhPTH(1-34)) is the active fragment (1-34) of 
endogenous human parathyroid hormone. Physiological actions of PTH include stimulation of bone 
formation by direct effects on bone forming cells (osteoblasts) indirectly increasing the intestinal 
absorption of calcium and increasing the tubular re-absorption of calcium and excretion of phosphate 
by the kidney. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Teriparatide is a bone formation agent to treat osteoporosis. The skeletal effects of teriparatide depend 
upon the pattern of systemic exposure. Once-daily administration of teriparatide increases apposition 
of new bone on trabecular and cortical bone surfaces by preferential stimulation of osteoblastic 
activity over osteoclastic activity. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy 
Risk factors 
Independent risk factors, for example, low BMD, age, the existence of previous fracture, family 
history of hip fractures, high bone turnover and low body mass index should be considered in order to 
identify women and men at increased risk of osteoporotic fractures who could benefit from treatment. 
Premenopausal women with glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis should be considered at high risk for 
fracture if they have a prevalent fracture or a combination of risk factors that place them at high risk 
for fracture (e.g., low bone density [e.g., T score ≤−2], sustained high dose glucocorticoid therapy 
[e.g., ≥7.5 mg/day for at least 6 months], high underlying disease activity, low sex steroid levels). 
Postmenopausal osteoporosis 
The pivotal study included 1637 postmenopausal women (mean age 69.5 years). At baseline, ninety 
percent of the patients had one or more vertebral fractures, and on average, vertebral BMD was 
0.82 g/cm2 (equivalent to a T-score = - 2.6). All patients were offered 1 000 mg calcium per day and 
at least 400 IU vitamin D per day. Results from up to 24 months (median: 19 months) treatment with 
teriparatide demonstrate statistically significant fracture reduction (Table 1). To prevent one or more 
new vertebral fractures, 11 women had to be treated for a median of 19 months. 
Table 2 Fracture incidence in postmenopausal women 
Placebo 
(N = 544) (%) 
Teriparatide  
(N = 541) (%) 
New vertebral 
fracture (≥1) a 
Multiple vertebral 
fractures (≥2) a 
Non-vertebral 
fragility fractures 
Major non-vertebral 
fragility fracturesc 
(hip, radius, humerus, 
ribs and pelvis) 
14.3 
4.9 
5.5% 
3.9% 
5.0b 
1.1b 
2.6%d 
1.5%d 
Relative risk 
(95% CI) 
vs. placebo 
0.35 
(0.22, 0.55) 
0.23 
(0.09, 0.60) 
0.47 
(0.25, 0.87) 
0.38 
(0.17, 0.86) 
Abbreviations:  N = number of patients randomly assigned to each treatment group; CI = Confidence 
Interval. 
a The incidence of vertebral fractures was assessed in 448 placebo and 444 teriperatide patients who 
had baseline and follow-up spine radiographs. 
b p≤0.001 compared with placebo 
c A significant reduction in the incidence of hip fractures has not been demonstrated 
d p≤0.025 compared with placebo. 
After 19 months (median) treatment, BMD had increased in the lumbar spine and total hip, 
respectively, by 9 % and 4 % compared with placebo (p<0.001). 
Post-treatment management: Following treatment with teriparatide, 1262 postmenopausal women 
from the pivotal trial enrolled in a post-treatment follow-up study. The primary objective of the study 
was to collect safety data of teriparatide. During this observational period, other osteoporosis 
treatments were allowed and additional assessment of vertebral fractures was performed. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During a median of 18 months following discontinuation of teriparatide, there was a 41 % reduction 
(p=0.004) compared with placebo in the number of patients with a minimum of one new vertebral 
fracture. 
In an open-label study, 503 postmenopausal women with severe osteoporosis and a fragility fracture 
within the previous 3 years (83 % had received previous osteoporosis therapy) were treated with 
teriparatide for up to 24 months. At 24 months, the mean increase from baseline in lumbar spine, total 
hip and femoral neck BMD was 10.5 %, 2.6 % and 3.9 % respectively. The mean increase in BMD 
from 18 to 24 months was 1.4 %, 1.2 %, and 1.6 % at the lumbar spine, total hip and femoral neck, 
respectively. 
A 24-month, randomised, double-blind, comparator-controlled Phase 4 study included 
1,360 postmenopausal women with established osteoporosis. 680 subjects were randomised to 
teriparatide and 680 subjects were randomised to oral risedronate 35 mg/week. At baseline, the women 
had a mean age of 72.1 years and a median of 2 prevalent vertebral fractures; 57.9 % of patients had 
received previous bisphosphonate therapy and 18.8 % took concomitant glucocorticoids during the 
study. 1,013 (74.5 %) patients completed the 24-month follow-up. The mean (median) cumulative 
dose of glucocorticoid was 474.3 (66.2) mg in the teriparatide arm and 898.0 (100.0) mg in the 
risedronate arm. The mean (median) vitamin D intake for the teriparatide arm was 1433 IU/day 
(1400 IU/day) and for the risedronate arm was 1191 IU/day (900 IU/day). For those subjects who had 
baseline and follow-up spine radiographs, the incidence of new vertebral fractures was 28/516 (5.4 %) 
in teriparatide- and 64/533 (12.0 %) in risedronate-treated patients, relative risk (95 % CI) = 
0.44 (0.29-0.68), P<0.0001. The cumulative incidence of pooled clinical fractures (clinical vertebral 
and non vertebral fractures) was 4.8 % in teriparatide and 9.8 % in risedronate-treated patients, hazard 
ratio (95 % CI) = 0.48 (0.32-0.74), P=0.0009. 
Male osteoporosis 
437 patients (mean age 58.7 years) were enrolled in a clinical trial for men with hypogonadal (defined 
as low morning free testosterone or an elevated FSH or LH) or idiopathic osteoporosis. Baseline spinal 
and femoral neck bone mineral density mean T-scores were -2.2 and -2.1, respectively. At baseline, 
35 % of patients had a vertebral fracture and 59 % had a non-vertebral fracture. 
All patients were offered 1 000 mg calcium per day and at least 400 IU vitamin D per day. Lumbar 
spine BMD significantly increased by 3 months. After 12 months, BMD had increased in the lumbar 
spine and total hip by 5 % and 1 %, respectively, compared with placebo. However, no significant 
effect on fracture rates was demonstrated. 
Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis 
The efficacy of teriparatide in men and women (N=428) receiving sustained systemic glucocorticoid 
therapy (equivalent to 5 mg or greater of prednisone for at least 3 months) was demonstrated in the 
18-month primary phase of a 36 month, randomised, double-blind, comparator-controlled study 
(alendronate 10 mg/day). Twenty-eight percent of patients had one or more radiographic vertebral 
fractures at baseline. All patients were offered 1 000 mg calcium per day and 800 IU vitamin D per 
day. 
This study included postmenopausal women (N=277), premenopausal women (N=67), and men 
(N=83). At baseline, the postmenopausal women had a mean age of 61 years, mean lumbar spine 
BMD T score of −2.7, median prednisone equivalent dose of 7.5 mg/day, and 34 % had one or more 
radiographic vertebral fractures; premenopausal women had a mean age of 37 years, mean lumbar 
spine BMD T score of −2.5, median prednisone equivalent dose of 10 mg/day, and 9 % had one or 
more radiographic vertebral fractures; and men had a mean age of 57 years, mean lumbar spine BMD 
T score of −2.2, median prednisone equivalent dose of 10 mg/day, and 24 % had one or more 
radiographic vertebral fractures. 
Sixty-nine percent of patients completed the 18-month primary phase. At the 18 month endpoint, 
teriparatide significantly increased lumbar spine BMD (7.2 %) compared with alendronate (3.4 %) 
(p<0.001). Teriparatide increased BMD at the total hip (3.6 %) compared with alendronate (2.2 %) 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(p<0.01), as well as at the femoral neck (3.7 %) compared with alendronate (2.1 %) (p<0.05). In 
patients treated with teriparatide, lumbar spine, total hip and femoral neck BMD increased between 
18 and 24 months by an additional 1.7 %, 0.9 %, and 0.4 %, respectively. 
At 36 months, analysis of spinal X-rays from 169 alendronate patients and 173 teriparatide patients 
showed that 13 patients in the alendronate group (7.7 %) had experienced a new vertebral fracture 
compared with 3 patients in the teriparatide group (1.7 %) (p=0.01). In addition, 15 of 214 patients in 
the alendronate group (7.0 %) had experienced a non-vertebral fracture compared with 
16 of 214 patients in the teriparatide group (7.5 %) (p=0.84). 
In premenopausal women, the increase in BMD from baseline to 18 month endpoint was significantly 
greater in the teriparatide group compared with the alendronate group at the lumbar spine (4.2 % 
versus −1.9 %; p<0.001) and total hip (3.8 % versus 0.9 %; p=0.005). However, no significant effect 
on fracture rates was demonstrated. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution is approximately 1.7 l/kg. The half-life of teriparatide is approximately 
1 hour when administered subcutaneously, which reflects the time required for absorption from the 
injection site. 
Biostransformation 
No metabolism or excretion studies have been performed with teriparatide but the peripheral 
metabolism of parathyroid hormone is believed to occur predominantly in liver and kidney. 
Elimination 
Teriparatide is eliminated through hepatic and extra-hepatic clearance (approximately 62 l/hr in 
women and 94 l/hr in men). 
Elderly 
No differences in teriparatide pharmacokinetics were detected with regard to age (range 
31 to 85 years). Dosage adjustment based on age is not required. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Teriparatide was not genotoxic in a standard battery of tests. It produced no teratogenic effects in rats, 
mice or rabbits. There were no important effects observed in pregnant rats or mice administered 
teriparatide at daily doses of 30 to 1 000 µg/kg. However, fetal resorption and reduced litter size 
occurred in pregnant rabbits administered daily doses of 3 to 100 µg/kg. The embryotoxicity observed 
in rabbits may be related to their much greater sensitivity to the effects of PTH on blood ionised 
calcium compared with rodents. 
Rats treated with near-life time daily injections had dose-dependent exaggerated bone formation and 
increased incidence of osteosarcoma most probably due to an epigenetic mechanism. Teriparatide did 
not increase the incidence of any other type of neoplasia in rats. Due to the differences in bone 
physiology in rats and humans, the clinical relevance of these findings is probably minor. No bone 
tumours were observed in ovariectomised monkeys treated for 18 months or during a 3-year follow-up 
period after treatment cessation. In addition, no osteosarcomas have been observed in clinical trials or 
during the post treatment follow-up study. 
Animal studies have shown that severely reduced hepatic blood flow decreases exposure of PTH to the 
principal cleavage system (Kupffer cells) and consequently clearance of PTH(1-84). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Glacial acetic acid (E260) 
Anhydrous sodium acetate (E262) 
Mannitol (E421) 
Metacresol 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) (E507) 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) (E524) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
After first opening 
Chemical, physical and microbiological in-use stability has been demonstrated for 28 days at 2°C-8°C. 
Once opened, the medicinal product may be stored for a maximum of 28 days at 2°C to 8°C. Other 
in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
2.4 mL solution in cartridge (siliconised glass) with a plunger (halobutyl rubber), disc seal 
(polyisoprene/bromobutyl rubber laminate)/aluminium assembled into a disposable pen. 
Teriparatide SUN is available in pack sizes of 1 pre-filled pen or 3 pre-filled pens. Each pre-filled pen 
contains 28 doses of 20 micrograms (per 80 microliters). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Handling 
Teriparatide SUN is supplied in a pre-filled pen. Each pen should be used by only one patient. A new, 
sterile needle of 31 Gauge, 5 mm length must be used for every injection. No needles are supplied 
with the medicinal product. After each injection, Teriparatide SUN pre-filled pen should be returned to 
the refrigerator immediately after use. 
Do not store the pre-filled pen with the needle attached. 
Teriparatide SUN should not be used if the solution is cloudy, coloured or contains particles. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132 JH Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
 EU/1/22/1697/001-002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132 JH Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Terapia S.A. 
Strada Fabricii Nr. 124 
Cluj-Napoca, 400632 
Romania 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
Outer Carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
teriparatide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled pen of 2.4 ml contains 600 micrograms of teriparatide (corresponding to 
250 micrograms per ml). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: glacial acetic acid (E260), anhydrous sodium acetate (E262), mannitol (E421), metacresol, 
hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) (E507), sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) (E524) and 
water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled pen (28 doses) 
3 pre-filled pens (3 x 28 doses) 
Each pen contains 28 doses of 20 micrograms (per 80 microliters) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The pen should be discarded 28 days after the first use.  
Date of first use: 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator  
Do not freeze 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe BV 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132 JH Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/16/1697/001 
EU/1/22/16/1697/002 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Teriparatide SUN 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
Label  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection 
teriparatide 
Subcutaneous use 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2.4 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
SUN Pharma logo 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
teriparatide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm 
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Teriparatide SUN is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Teriparatide SUN 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Teriparatide SUN 
Possible side effects 
How to store Teriparatide SUN 
Content of the pack and other information 
1.  What Teriparatide SUN is and what it is used for 
Teriparatide SUN contains the active substance teriparatide that is used to make the bones stronger, 
and to reduce the risk of fractures by stimulating bone formation. 
Teriparatide SUN is used to treat osteoporosis in adults. Osteoporosis is a disease that causes your 
bones to become thin and fragile. This disease is especially common in women after the menopause, 
but it can also occur in men. Osteoporosis is also common in patients receiving corticosteroids. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Teriparatide SUN  
Do not use Teriparatide SUN 
- 
if you are allergic to teriparatide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you suffer from high calcium levels (pre-existing hypercalcaemia) 
if you suffer from serious kidney problems 
if you have ever been diagnosed with bone cancer or other cancers that have spread 
(metastasised) to your bones 
if you have certain bone diseases. If you have a bone disease, tell your doctor 
if you have unexplained high levels of alkaline phosphatase in your blood, which means you 
might have Paget’s disease of bone (disease with abnormal bone changes). If you are not sure, 
ask your doctor 
if you have had radiation therapy involving your bones 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Teriparatide SUN may cause an increase in the amount of calcium in your blood or urine. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before or while using Teriparatide SUN 
- 
if you have continuing nausea, vomiting, constipation, low energy, or muscle weakness. These 
may be signs there is too much calcium in your blood 
if you suffer from kidney stones or have a history of kidney stones 
- 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
if you suffer from kidney problems (moderate renal impairment). 
Some patients get dizzy or get a fast heartbeat after the first few doses. For the first doses, inject 
Teriparatide SUN where you can sit or lie down right away if you get dizzy. 
The recommended treatment time of 24 months should not be exceeded. 
Teriparatide SUN should not be used in growing adults. 
Children and adolescents 
Teriparatide SUN should not be used in children and adolescents (less than 18 years). 
Other medicines and Teriparatide SUN 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, because occasionally they may interact (e.g. digoxin/digitalis, a medicine used to treat 
heart disease). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not use Teriparatide SUN if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or if you are breast-
feeding. 
If you are a woman of child-bearing potential, you should use effective methods of contraception 
during use of Teriparatide SUN. If you become pregnant, Teriparatide SUN should be discontinued. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Some patients may feel dizzy after injecting Teriparatide SUN. If you feel dizzy you should not drive 
or use machines until you feel better. 
Teriparatide SUN contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially “sodium- 
free”. 
3.  How to use Teriparatide SUN 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you to. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is 20 micrograms given once daily by injection under the skin (subcutaneous 
injection) in the thigh or abdomen. To help you remember to take your medicine, inject it at about the 
same time each day. 
Inject Teriparatide SUN each day for as long as your doctor prescribes it for you. The total duration of 
treatment with Teriparatide SUN should not exceed 24 months. You should not receive more than one 
treatment course of 24 months over your lifetime. 
Teriparatide SUN can be injected at meal times. 
Carefully read how to use the pre-filled pen at the end of this package leaflet. 
Injection needles are not included with the pen. Pen needles of 31 Gauge, 5 mm length can be used.  
You should use your Teriparatide SUN injection shortly after you take the pen out of the refrigerator 
as described in Pen User Manual  at the end of this package leaflet. For instructions for use video, 
please scan the QR code included in the Pen User Manual or use the link: 
https://www.pharmaqr.info/tptemaen. Put the pen back into the refrigerator immediately after you 
have used it. Use a new injection needle of 31 Gauge, 5 mm length for each injection and dispose of it 
after each use. Never store your pen with the needle attached. Never share your Teriparatide SUN pen 
with others. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your doctor may advise you to use Teriparatide SUN with calcium and vitamin D. Your doctor will 
tell you how much you should take each day. 
Teriparatide SUN can be given with or without food. 
If you use more Teriparatide SUN than you should 
If, by mistake, you have used more Teriparatide SUN than you should, contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. The effects of overdose that might be expected include nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and 
headache. 
If you forget or cannot take Teriparatide SUN at your usual time, use it as soon as possible on that 
day. Do not use a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Do not use more than one injection in 
the same day. Do not try to make up for a missed dose. 
If you stop taking Teriparatide SUN 
If you are considering stopping Teriparatide SUN treatment, please discuss this with your doctor. Your 
doctor will advise you and decide how long you should be treated with Teriparatide SUN. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The most common side effects are pain in limb (frequency is very common, may affect more than 1 in 
10 people) and feeling sick, headache and dizziness (frequency is common, may affect up to 1 in 
10 people). If you become dizzy (light-headed) after your injection, you should sit or lie down until 
you feel better. If you do not feel better, you should call a doctor before you continue treatment. Cases 
of fainting have been reported in association with teriparatide use. 
If you experience discomfort such as redness of the skin, pain, swelling, itching, bruising or minor 
bleeding around the area of the injection (frequency is common), this should clear up in a few days or 
weeks. Otherwise, tell your doctor as soon as possible. 
Some patients may have experienced allergic reactions soon after injection, consisting of 
breathlessness, swelling of the face, rash and chest pain (frequency is rare, may affect up to 1 in 
1,000 people). In rare cases, serious and potentially life-threatening allergic reactions including 
anaphylaxis can occur. 
Other side effects include 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
increase in blood cholesterol levels 
depression 
neuralgic pain in the leg 
feeling faint 
irregular heart beats 
breathlessness 
increased sweating 
muscle cramps 
loss of energy 
tiredness 
chest pain 
low blood pressure 
heartburn (painful or burning sensation just below the breast bone) 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
being sick (vomiting) 
a hernia of the tube that carries food to your stomach 
low haemoglobin or red blood cell count (anaemia) 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
increased heart rate 
abnormal heart sound 
shortness of breath 
haemorrhoids (piles) 
accidental loss or leakage of urine 
increased need to pass water 
weight increase 
kidney stones 
pain in the muscles and pain in the joints. Some patients have experienced severe back cramps 
or pain which lead to hospitalisation 
increase in blood calcium level 
increase in blood uric acid level 
increase in an enzyme called alkaline phosphatase. 
- 
- 
- 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
- 
reduced kidney function, including renal failure 
swelling, mainly in the hands, feet and legs. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5.  How to store Teriparatide SUN 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and pen after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Teriparatide SUN should be stored in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C) at all times. You can use Teriparatide 
SUN for up to 28 days after the first injection, as long as the pen is stored in a refrigerator 
(2°C to 8°C). 
Do not freeze Teriparatide SUN. Avoid placing the pens close to the ice compartment of the 
refrigerator to prevent freezing. Do not use Teriparatide SUN if it is, or has been, frozen. 
Each pen should be properly disposed of after 28 days, even if it is not completely empty. 
Teriparatide SUN contains a clear and colourless solution. Do not use Teriparatide SUN if solid 
particles appear or if the solution is cloudy or coloured. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Teriparatide SUN contains 
- 
The active substance is teriparatide. Each dose of 80 microliters contains 
20 micrograms of teriparatide. 
Each pre-filled pen of 2.4 ml contains 600 micrograms of teriparatide (corresponding to 
250 micrograms per ml.  
The other ingredients are glacial acetic acid (E260), anhydrous sodium acetate (E262), mannitol 
(E421), metacresol, and water for injections. In addition, hydrochloric acid (E507) and/or 
sodium hydroxide (E524) solution may have been added for pH adjustment. (See section 
2 Teriparatide SUN contains sodium) 
What Teriparatide SUN looks like and contents of the pack 
Teriparatide SUN is a clear and colourless solution. It is supplied in a cartridge contained in a 
disposable pre-filled pen. Each pen contains 2.4 ml of solution enough for 28 doses.  
It is available in packs of 1 pre-filled pen or 3 pre-filled pens. 
Not all package sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132 JH Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturers 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132 JH Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Terapia S.A. 
Str. Fabricii nr. 124 
Cluj-Napoca, 400632 
Romania 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien/България/Česká republika/ 
Danmark/Eesti/Ελλάδα/Hrvatska/United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)/Ísland/Κύπρος/ 
Latvija/Lietuva/Luxembourg/Luxemburg/Magyarország/ 
Malta/Nederland/Norge/Österreich/Portugal/Slovenija/ 
Slovenská republika/Suomi/Finland/Sverige 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132 JH Hoofddorp 
Nederland/Pays-Bas/Niederlande/Нидерландия/Nizozemsko/ 
Nederlandene/Ολλανδία/Nizozemska/The Netherlands/Holland/ 
Ολλανδία/Nīderlande/Nyderlandai/Pays-Bas/Niederlande/ 
Hollandia/L-Olanda/Nederland/Niederlande/Países Baixos/ 
Nizozemska/Holandsko/Alankomaat/Nederländerna 
Tel./тел./tlf./τηλ./Sími/τηλ./Tlf./Puh./ 
+31 (0)23 568 5501 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Sun Pharmaceuticals Germany GmbH 
Hemmelrather Weg 201 
51377 Leverkusen 
Deutschland 
tel. +49 214 403 990 
España 
Sun Pharma Laboratorios, S.L.  
Rambla de Catalunya 53-55 
08007 Barcelona 
España 
tel. +34 93 342 78 90 
France 
Sun Pharma France 
11-15, Quai de Dion Bouton 
92800 Puteaux 
France 
tel. +33 1 41 44 44 50 
Italia 
Sun Pharma Italia Srl 
Viale Giulio Richard, 3 
20143 Milano 
Italia 
tel. +39 02 33 49 07 93 
Polska 
Ranbaxy (Poland) Sp. Z. o. o. 
ul. Kubickiego 11  
02-954 Warszawa  
Polska 
tel. +48 22 642 07 75 
România 
Terapia S.A. 
Str. Fabricii nr 124 
Cluj-Napoca, 400632 
România 
tel. +40 (264) 501 500 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PEN USER MANUAL 
Teriparatide SUN 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Instructions for use 
Before you use your new pen, please read the section Instructions for use completely. Follow the 
directions carefully when using the pen. Also read the package leaflet provided. 
For instructions for use video, please scan the QR code or use the link: 
https://www.pharmaqr.info/tptemaen. 
Do not share your pen or your needles as this may risk transmission of infectious agents. 
Your pen contains 28 days of medicine. 
Teriparatide SUN Parts* 
Yellow Shaft 
Black 
Injection 
button 
Red Stripe 
Green Body 
Medicine Cartridge 
White Cap 
Paper Tab 
Needle 
Small Needle Protector 
Large Needle Cover 
                                        Ask your doctor or pharmacist which needle gauge and length are best for you. 
*Needles not included. The needle of 31 Gauge, 5 mm length can be used.  
Always wash your hands before every injection. Prepare the injection site as directed by your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Step 1 Pull off white cap 
Remove the white cap by pulling it straight off the pen 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
                    
                  
               
                          
                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 2 Attach a new needle 
Large needle protector 
          c)
a)
Pull off paper tab             Push needle straight                  Screw on needle clockwise    Pull off large needle 
                                         onto medicine cartridge.            firmly attached.                      cover and save it. 
         b)
         d)
Step 3 Set dose 
Red stripe 
Small needle protector 
           e)
              Pull out black injection                      Check to make sure                Pull off small needle   
              button until it stops.                           red stripe shows.                     protector and throw away.  
                   f)
            g)
If you cannot pull out the black injection button            Note: After removal of inner needle protector, 
see Troubleshooting Problem E.                                     you may see drop(s) of medicine coming out 
                                                                                          It is normal and will not affect your dose. 
of the needle. 
Step 4 Inject dose 
            h)
                        i)
          Gently hold a fold of skin from thigh                        Push in black injection button until it stops.  
          or abdomen and insert needle straight                       Hold it in and count to 5 s-l-o-w-l-y.  
          into skin.                                                                    Then pull the needle from skin. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IMPORTANT 
Step 5 Confirm dose 
                 j)
After completing the injection 
Once the needle is removed from the skin, check to make sure the black injection button is all the 
way in. If the yellow shaft does not show, you have completed the injection steps correctly. 
                     k)
You should NOT see any of the yellow shaft. If you do and have already injected, do not inject 
yourself a second time on the same day. Instead, you MUST reset Teriparatide SUN (See 
Troubleshooting Problem A). 
Step 6 Remove needle 
Large 
needle  
cover 
     m)
l)
Put large needle         Unscrew the needle anti-clockwise   Pull off needle and throw       Push white cap back on. 
cover on needle.         all the way by giving the large          away as directed by                Place Teriparatide SUN  
                                   needle cover 3 to 5 complete           your doctor or pharmacist.     in the refrigerator 
                                   turns.                                                                                               immediately after use. 
           n)
           o)
The directions regarding needle handling are not intended to replace local, healthcare professional or 
institutional policies. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Problem 
A. The yellow shaft is 
still showing after I 
push  
in the black injection 
button.  
How do I reset my  
Teriparatide SUN?  
B. How do I know if my 
Teriparatide SUN 
works? 
Troubleshooting 
Solution  
To reset the Teriparatide SUN, follow the steps 
below. 
1)  The recommended dose is 20 micrograms given 
once daily. If you have already injected, DO 
NOT inject yourself a second time on the same 
day. 
2)  Remove the needle. 
3)  Attach a new needle, pull off the large needle 
cover and save it. 
4)  Pull out the black injection button until it stops. 
Check to make sure the red stripe shows. (See 
step 3) 
5)  Pull off the small needle protector and throw 
away. 
6)  Point the needle down into an empty container. 
Push in the black injection button until it stops. 
Hold it in and count to 5 s-l-o-w-l-y. You may 
see a small stream or drop of fluid. When you 
have finished, the black injection button 
should be all the way in. 
7)  If you still see the yellow shaft showing, please 
contact your doctor or pharmacist 
8)  Put the large needle cover on needle. Unscrew 
the needle all the way by giving the needle 
cover 3 to 5 complete turns. Pull off needle 
cover and throw away as directed by your 
doctor or pharmacist. Push the white cap back 
on, and place Teriparatide SUN in the 
refrigerator. (See step 6) 
You can prevent this problem by always using a 
NEW needle for each injection, and by pushing 
the black injection button all the way in and 
counting to 5 s-l-o-w-l-y. 
The Teriparatide SUN is designed to inject the full 
dose every time it is used according to the 
directions in the section How to use. The black 
injection button will be all the way in to show that 
the full dose has been injected from the 
Teriparatide SUN. 
Remember to use a new needle every time you 
inject to be sure your Teriparatide SUN will work 
properly. 
C. I see an air bubble in 
my Teriparatide SUN. 
A small air bubble will not affect your dose nor 
will it harm you. You can continue to take your 
dose as usual. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D. I cannot get the 
needle off. 
E. What should I do if I 
cannot pull out the black 
injection button? 
1) Put the large needle cover on the needle. (See 
step 6) 
2) Use the large needle cover to unscrew the 
needle. 
3) Unscrew the needle all the way by giving the 
large needle cover 3 to 5 complete turns. 
4) If you still cannot get the needle off, ask 
someone to help you. 
Change to a new Teriparatide SUN to take your 
dose as directed by your doctor or pharmacist. 
This indicates that you have now used all the medicine 
that can be injected accurately even though you may 
still see some medicine left in the cartridge.  
Cleaning Your Teriparatide SUN 
  Wipe the outside of the Teriparatide SUN with a damp cloth. 
  Do not place the Teriparatide SUN in water, or wash or clean it with any liquid. 
Cleaning and Storage 
Storing Your Teriparatide SUN 
  Refrigerate the Teriparatide SUN immediately after every use. Read and follow the 
instructions in the Information for the Patient leaflet on how to store your pen. 
  Do not store the Teriparatide SUN with a needle attached as this may cause air bubbles to 
form in the cartridge. 
  Store the Teriparatide SUN with the white cap on. 
 
If the medicine has been frozen, throw the pre-filled pen away and use a new Teriparatide 
SUN. 
If the Teriparatide SUN has been left out of the refrigerator, do not throw the pen away. 
Place the pen back in the refrigerator and contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
 
Disposal of Pen Needles and Teriparatide SUN pre-filled pen 
Disposal of Pen Needles and Pre-filled pen 
  Before disposing of the Teriparatide SUN pre-filled pen, be sure to remove the pen needle. 
  Put used needles in a sharps container or a hard plastic container with a secure lid. Do not 
throw needles directly into your household waste. 
  Do not recycle the filled sharps container. 
  Ask your healthcare professional about options to dispose of the pen and the sharps 
container properly. 
  The directions regarding needle handling are not intended to replace local, healthcare 
professional or institutional policies. 
  Dispose of the pre-filled pen 28 days after first use. 
Other Important Notes 
  The Teriparatide SUN contains 28 days of medicine. 
  Do not transfer the medicine into a syringe. 
  Write down your first injection date on a calendar. 
  Check the Teriparatide SUN label to make sure you have the correct medicine and that it 
has not expired. 
  During injection, you may hear one or more clicks – this is a normal pre-filled pen 
operation. 
  The Teriparatide SUN is not recommended for use by the blind or visually impaired 
persons without the assistance of a person trained in the proper use of the pre-filled pen. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
