10 November 2016 
EMA/84371/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Terrosa  
International non-proprietary name: teriparatide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003916/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 8 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 8 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ...................................................... 10 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 11 
2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 11 
2.2. Quality aspects ............................................................................................... 13 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................ 13 
2.2.2. Active Substance ......................................................................................... 13 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product .......................................................................... 16 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .................. 21 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .......... 21 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ................................... 21 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ........................................................................................ 22 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................ 22 
2.3.2. Pharmacology .............................................................................................. 22 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics ........................................................................................ 23 
2.3.4. Toxicology ................................................................................................... 23 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ................................................ 24 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 25 
2.3.7. Conclusion on non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 25 
2.4. Clinical aspects ............................................................................................... 26 
2.4.1. Pharmacokinetics ........................................................................................ 26 
2.4.2. Pharmacodynamics ...................................................................................... 31 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ............................................................ 32 
2.4.4. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology .......................................................... 36 
2.5. Clinical safety ................................................................................................. 36 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety ........................................................................ 39 
2.5.2. Conclusions on clinical safety ...................................................................... 40 
2.6. Risk Management Plan .................................................................................... 41 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .......................................................................................... 44 
2.8. Product information ........................................................................................ 44 
2.8.1. User consultation ......................................................................................... 44 
2.8.2. Quick Response (QR) code ........................................................................... 44 
2.8.3. Additional monitoring ....................................................................................... 44 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 45 
3.1. Favourable effects .......................................................................................... 45 
3.2. Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects ................................... 45 
3.3. Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects ............................... 46 
3.4. Balance of benefits and risks .......................................................................... 46 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 2/47 
  
  
3.5. Conclusions .................................................................................................... 46 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 46 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 3/47 
 
 
  
  
List of abbreviations 
α  
°C  
µg  
µL  
AE  
ALP  
AM  
Alpha 
Degrees Celsius 
Microgram 
Microlitre 
Adverse event 
Alkaline phosphatase 
Arithmetic mean 
ANOVA   
Analysis of variance 
AUC  
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve 
AUC%extrap  
Percent of area under the plasma concentration versus time curve to infinity 
extrapolated 
AUC0-inf  
AUC0-tlast  
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve to infinity 
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve to the last measurable 
BE  
BLQ  
BMC 
BMD  
BMI  
BP  
bpm  
C0  
Ca  
concentration 
Bioequivalence 
Below limit of quantitation 
Bone mineral content 
Bone mineral density 
Body Mass Index 
Blood pressure 
Beats per minute 
Teriparatide predose concentration 
Calcium 
cAMP    
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate 
CI  
CL/F  
CLID  
cm  
Cmax  
CO  
CRF  
CRO  
CRU  
Confidence interval 
The apparent total plasma clearance after extravascular administration 
Client ID number 
Centimetre 
Maximum measured plasma concentration 
Carbon monoxide 
Case report form 
Clinical research organisation 
Clinical research unit 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 4/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
CS  
CV%  
dL  
DNA  
Clinically significant 
Coefficient of variation 
Decilitre 
Deoxyribonucleic acid 
E. coli    
Escherichia coli 
EC  
ECG  
European Commission 
Electrocardiogram 
ELISA    
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
EU  
FSH  
g  
GCP  
European Union 
Follicle stimulating hormone 
Gram 
Good Clinical Practice 
GCV%   
Geometric CV% 
GM  
GMR  
HBV  
HCV  
HIV  
hr  
HR  
IB  
ICF  
ICH  
IEC  
IMP  
Geometric mean 
Geometric mean ratio 
Hepatitis B virus 
Hepatitis C virus 
Human immunodeficiency virus 
Hour 
Heart rate 
Investigator´s brochure 
Informed Consent Form 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Independent Ethics Committee 
Investigational medicinal product 
K3EDTA  
Tripotassium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid 
kel  
kg  
Apparent terminal elimination rate constant 
Kilogram 
kg/m2    
Kilogram per metre square 
L  
LDH  
Litre 
Lactate dehydrogenase 
LLOQ    
Lower limit of quantitation 
ln  
LSM  
Natural log 
Least-squares means 
MedDRAsq 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
MHRA    
Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 5/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
mIU  
mL  
Million International Units 
Millilitre 
mmHg   
Millimetre of mercury 
mmol    
Millimole 
msec    
Millisecond 
N  
NCS  
No.  
PD  
PI  
PK  
PR  
Sample size; number of observations 
Not clinically significant 
Number 
Pharmacodynamic(s) 
Principal Investigator 
Pharmacokinetic(s) 
Interval between the P and R waves on the ECG 
PTH  
Parathyroid hormone 
PTH (1-84) 
Full-length parathyroid hormone 
PTH1R   
Parathyroid hormone-receptor-1 
QA  
QC  
QRS  
QT  
QTc  
R2  
RBA 
RDTS 
REC  
RMP 
Quality Assurance 
Quality Control 
Value of the interval between the Q and S waves on the electrocardiogram tracing 
Value of the interval between the Q and T waves on the ECG 
Corrected value of the interval between the Q and T waves on the ECG tracing  
using Bazett´s [QTcB] and Fridericia´s [QTcF] corrections 
Coefficient of determination 
Receptor Binding Assay 
Repeat Dose Toxicity Study 
Research Ethics Committee 
Reference Medicinal Product 
rhPTH (1-34)   Recombinant human parathyroid hormone 1-34 
SAE  
SAP  
sc  
SD  
SEM  
SID  
SIV  
Serious adverse event 
Statistical Analysis Plan 
Subcutaneous 
Standard deviation 
Standard error of the mean 
Screening identification number 
Site initiation visit 
SmPC    
Summary of Product Characteristics 
SOC  
System Organ Class 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 6/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
SOP  
SST  
Standard Operating Procedure 
System Suitability Test  
STRAW  
Stages of Reproductive Aging Workshop 
t 1/2  
Apparent terminal elimination half-life 
TEAEs    
Treatment-emergent AEs 
TK 
tlast  
t max  
TP  
U  
ULN  
Toxicokinetic(s) 
Last measurable concentration 
Time of the maximum measured plasma concentration 
Time point 
Units 
Upper limit of normal 
ULOQ    
Upper limit of quantitation 
USA  
Vd  
Vz/F  
United States of America 
Volume of distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution after extravascular administration 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 7/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Gedeon Richter Plc. submitted on 27 November 2015 an application for marketing authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Terrosa, through the centralised procedure falling within the 
Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indication:  
Terrosa is indicated in adults. 
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture. In 
postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral and nonvertebral fractures but 
not hip fractures has been demonstrated.  
Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and men at 
increased risk for fracture. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(4) of Directive 2001/83/EC – relating to applications for a biosimilar medicinal products. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, appropriate non-
clinical and clinical data for a similar biological medicinal product. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to 
the proposed indication. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force for not 
less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Forsteo 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for 
injection in pre-filled pen 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 8/47 
 
 
  
  
•  Date of authorisation: 10-06-2003 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: : EU/1/04/247/001-002 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Fortseo 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for 
injection in pre-filled pen 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V 
•  Date of authorisation: 10-06-2003 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/03/247/001-002 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force and to 
which comparability tests have been concluded:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Forsteo 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for 
injection in pre-filled pen 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V 
•  Date of authorisation: 10-06-2003 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/03/247/001-002 
•  Bioavailability study number(s): AA99812 (Eudra CT No. 2013-004040-31)  
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 19/04/2012. The Scientific Advice pertained to 
quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 9/47 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Milena Stain 
Co-Rapporteur: Greg Markey 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 27 November 2015. 
•  The procedure started on 16 December 2015.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 18 March 2016. The 
Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 18 March 2016. The 
PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 4 April 2016. 
•  During the meeting on 28 April 2016, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent 
to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 29 April 2016. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 13 July 2016. 
• 
In cases when a pre-authorisation inspection has been conducted, please reflect the following steps 
(include/delete information as applicable): 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 22 August 2016. 
•  During the PRAC meeting on 2 September 2016, the PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview 
and Advice to CHMP. The PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice was sent to the applicant on 5 
September 2016. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 15 September 2016, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 7 October 2016. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 25 October 2016. 
•  During the meeting on 10 November 2016, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a marketing 
authorisation to Terrosa on 10 November 2016. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 10/47 
 
 
  
  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Osteoporosis, as defined by World Health Organization, is a systemic disease of the skeleton characterised by 
low bone mineral density (BMD) and micro-architectural deterioration of bone tissue with consequent 
increased bone fragility that predisposes to fracture risk. Due to the silent progression of bone structure 
degeneration, osteoporosis diagnosis often follows a painful fracture event. 
The diagnosis of osteoporosis is established by means of bone densitometry or by the presence of a fragility 
fracture. Any bone may be affected; although the skeletal sites most prone to fracture include proximal 
femur (hip), vertebrae (spine), and distal forearm (wrist). Osteoporotic fractures lead to pain and occasional 
disability. More importantly, they increase mortality. 
Osteoporosis is commonly experienced in postmenopausal women due to declining oestrogen-levels. 
However, osteoporosis can also occur in both sexes as a side effect of prolonged treatment with 
glucocorticoid medications. Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis may be responsible for up to 20% of all 
osteoporosis cases. Fractures, primarily hip fractures, decrease a patient’s quality of life by increasing pain, 
medical costs, morbidity, and mortality. 
In 27 European Union (EU) countries the prevalence of osteoporosis was estimated to be 6.6 % and 22.1 % 
in men and women, respectively, aged 50 years or more and 5.5 % in the general population. According to 
the National (US) Osteoporosis Foundation, up to 25% of men over the age of 50 years will experience a 
fracture due to osteoporosis, with approximately 80,000 suffering from a broken hip. 
Current pharmacological options for the treatment of osteoporosis include antiresorptive agents (e.g. 
bisphosphonates, calcitonin and raloxifene) which reduce osteoclastic activity, strontium ranelate which 
reduces osteoclastic activity and may demonstrate anabolic properties as well, and parathyroid hormone 
(PTH, aminoterminal portion: teriparatide), the first anabolic agent, which stimulates bone turnover with a 
positive bone balance thereby increasing bone mass. 
About the product 
Teriparatide, PTH (1-34) is the international non-proprietary name (INN) for the biologically active 34-amino 
acid N-terminal fragment of the 84-amino acid native parathyroid hormone, PTH (1-84). Synthetic and 
genetically engineered versions of teriparatide both exist, sharing identical affinity for the parathyroid 
hormone (PTH) surface receptors as well as possessing the same biological activity. 
The active substance in Terrosa, biosimilar teriparatide (also referred to as RGB-10 throughout the 
document), is produced in E. coli using recombinant DNA technology, so is the case with its reference 
medicinal product Forsteo. 
Recombinant teriparatide contains no amino acid substitutions or chemical modifications and differs from the 
synthetic peptide only in its method of production and purification. Recombinant teriparatide contains no 
glycosylation or other post-translational modifications. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 11/47 
  
  
Endogenous PTH (1-84) is the primary regulator of calcium and phosphate metabolism in bone and kidney. 
Physiological actions of PTH include stimulation of bone formation by direct effects on bone forming cells 
(osteoblasts) indirectly increasing the intestinal absorption of calcium and increasing the tubular re-
absorption of calcium and excretion of phosphate by the kidney. 
The molecular effects of teriparatide are mediated by the parathyroid hormone-receptor-1 (PTH-R1), a G–
protein-dependent membrane receptor expressed by osteoblasts and renal tubular cells. Teriparatide has 
similar affinity for the PTH-R1 as PTH (1– 84). PTH signaling results in the activation of genes important for 
the functions of mature osteoblasts, increases in osteoblast number, decreases in the apoptotic rate of 
osteoblastic cells, and increases in their bone-forming activity. The net result is an increase in the number of 
active osteoblasts, a decrease in osteoblast apoptosis and probably a recruitment of bone lining cells as 
newly formed osteoblasts, which are followed by increasing bone strength, mass and diameter and bone 
structural integrity, as well as increasing levels of biochemical markers of bone turnover (both formation and 
resorption markers) in serum and urine (Blick et al., 2008). 
The therapeutic indications, posology and route of administration proposed for Terrosa are identical to those 
for Forsteo, to which similarity is claimed. 
Forsteo is authorised for the following therapeutic indications within the EU: 
•  Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture. In 
postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures 
but not hip fractures has been demonstrated. 
•  Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and men 
at increased risk for fracture. 
The recommended dose is 20 µg administered once daily by subcutaneous (sc) injection in the thigh or 
abdomen. The maximum total duration of treatment with teriparatide should not exceed 24 months. The 24-
month course of teriparatide should not be repeated over a patient’s lifetime. 
Forsteo (20 µg/80 µL solution for injection) is supplied in a pre-filled disposable pen containing 28 doses.  
RGB-10 (biosimilar teriparatide, 20 µg/80 µL solution for injection) is supplied in a cartridge that is to be 
inserted in a dedicated multi-dose pen injector. 
The development programme 
RGB-10 (teriparatide 20 µg/80 µL solution for injection) has been developed as a biological medicinal product 
and is claimed to be biosimilar to Forsteo which contains recombinant human teriparatide (rhPTH (1-34)) as 
active substance (20 µg/80 µL solution for injection). 
Further to the demonstration of comparability between RGB-10 and the reference medicinal product Forsteo 
at the analytical and the non-clinical levels, the Applicant aimed at demonstrating therapeutic equivalence of 
RGB-10 to Forsteo in one comparative pharmacokinetic (PK) study in 54 healthy women. Apart from the 
abridged clinical comparability exercise that consists of a single bioequivalence study RGB-10-001, the 
Applicant has not conducted any clinical efficacy (or safety) studies on the treatment of osteoporosis in 
postmenopausal women, men at risk or osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid 
therapy. 
CHMP guidance: 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 12/47 
 
  
  
The development programme of RGB-10 has in general been aligned to the respective EU guidance, in 
particular: 
•  Guideline on similar biological medicinal products (CHMP/437/04 Rev 1); 
•  Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as active 
substance –  non-clinical and clinical issues (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev1); 
•  Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr**); 
•  Guideline on similar medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as active substance: 
quality issues (EMA/CHMP/BWP/247713/2012) 
•  Guideline on bioanalytical method validation (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009) 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product (Terrosa) is presented as solution for injection containing 20 micrograms/80 microliters 
(20 µg/80 µL) of Teriparatide as active substance. Each cartridge contains 2.4 mL of solution. 
Other ingredients are: Glacial acetic acid, Mannitol, Metacresol, Sodium acetate trihydrate, Hydrochloric acid, 
Sodium hydroxide, Water for injection. 
The product is available in a 3 mL cartridge (siliconised Type I glass), with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl) 
and disc seal (aluminium and rubber liner seals), packed in a plastic tray sealed with lid foil and a carton. 
Terrosa cartridges are designed to be used only with the ServoPen Fix reusable, multidose delivery system 
and compatible pen needles. 
Terrosa 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection (INN of active substance: teriparatide has been 
developed as an intended biosimilar medicinal product of Forsteo (marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V.). 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
The active substance of is teriparatide. Teriparatide is a recombinant 1-34 N-terminal fragment of 
endogenous human parathyroid hormone, rhPTH(1-34) produced in E. coli using recombinant DNA 
technology. 
The theoretical monoisotopic mass of Teriparatide is 4115.1309 Dalton (C181H291N55O51S2). The amino 
acid sequence is: 
S V S E I Q L M H N L G K H L N S M E R V E W L R K K L Q D V H N F 
Teriparatide monomer is a slightly curved helix. Residues 6–20 and 21–33 form two amphiphilic helices with 
their hydrophobic side chains facing in different directions. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 13/47 
 
  
  
Teriparatide contains no glycosylation or other post-translational modifications. 
Biological activity: Teriparatide is a recombinant 1-34 N-terminal fragment of endogenous human parathyroid 
hormone (rhPTH(1-34)), which is critical for G-protein linked stimulation of adenylate cyclase that catalyzes 
the formation of second messengers such as cAMP. The 84-amino acid parathyroid hormone (PTH) stimulates 
the bone formation by direct effects on bone-forming cells (osteoblasts) indirectly increasing the intestinal 
absorption of calcium and increasing the tubular re-absorption of calcium and excretion of phosphate by the 
kidney. 
The amino terminus is critical for G-protein linked stimulation of adenylate cyclase that catalyses the 
formation of second messengers such as cAMP that activates the desired biological effects by phosphorylation 
of critical intracellular proteins. 
The biological activity of teriparatide is determined using a cell-based assay. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Manufacturer 
Teriparatide is manufactured at Richter-Helm BioLogics (RHB) in Bovenau/Germany. 
Description of manufacturing process and process controls 
The process has been sufficiently described and in-process controls are adequately set to control the process. 
Control of materials 
Expression system: 
Teriparatide is expressed in a recombinant commercially available E. coli BL21 strain, transformed with a 
proprietary expression plasmid, carrying the coding sequence for rhPTH. 
Cell bank system: A standard two-tiered cell banking system consisting of Master Cell Bank (MCB) and 
Working Cell Bank (WCB) was created and tested in accordance with current guidelines (ICH Q5B, Q5D) 
under GMP conditions. The MCB was established from a preliminary cell bank derived from a selected single 
colony of E. coli BL21. Information on the cell bank establishment, storage, and characterization were 
provided, as well as stability data and the procedure to be used for establishing future WCBs. 
Genetic stability was shown by end of production cell line (EPC) characterisation. 
Sufficient information on raw materials used in the active substance manufacturing process has been 
submitted. Compendial raw materials are tested in accordance with the corresponding monograph, while 
specifications (including test methods) for non-compendial raw materials are presented. No human or animal 
derived materials are used in the active substance manufacturing process and acceptable documents have 
been provided for raw materials of biological origin used in the establishment of cell substrate. 
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
Critical quality attributes (CQAs) were defined in early process development. The Company´s control strategy 
is based on a risk assessment of process parameters and quality attributes controlled by in-process controls 
(IPCs). The CPPs (critical process parameters) and IPCs suitable to control the teriparatide manufacturing 
process and the product quality were also identified via the risk assessment exercise. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 14/47 
  
  
A comprehensive overview of critical in-process controls and critical in-process tests performed throughout 
the teriparatide active substance manufacturing process is given. Acceptable information has been provided 
on the control system in place to monitor and control the active substance manufacturing process with regard 
to critical, as well as non-critical operational parameters and in-process tests. Actions taken if limits are 
exceeded are specified. 
Process validation 
Validation of the teriparatide active substance manufacturing process has been performed according to the 
cGMP principles and the current guidelines on validation on three consecutive full scale batches at the 
manufacturing site in Bovenau. 
The process validation plan was based on the overall manufacturing experience from optimization. It 
comprised evaluation of the capacity to remove process- and product-related impurities and validation of all 
process steps. Depletion of product related and process related impurities and resin life time and storage 
were used to characterise teriparatide active substance during process validation). 
Hold times of the manufacturing process were submitted. Process validation and transport validation were 
sufficiently done. All acceptance criteria for the critical operational parameters and likewise acceptance 
criteria for the in-process tests are fulfilled demonstrating that the manufacturing process consistently 
produces teriparatide active substance of reproducible quality that complies with the predetermined 
specification and in-process acceptance criteria. 
Manufacturing process development 
The original manufacturing process was developed at laboratory scale. The non-clinical material was supplied 
from a pre-commercial DSP scale, pre-final process version. A comparison of batch release data along with 
some additional data comparing primary, secondary and tertiary structures has been provided for one batch 
of product at the pre-commercial scale (used in non-clinical studies) and one batch of process validation 
product. There is good comparability between the two sets of data, though it is noted that purity regarding 
product related impurities is improved with the commercial scale, due to process improvements. Thus the 
pre-commercial scale product (used in non-clinical studies) could be regarded as worst case. 
Descriptions of the development stages are provided including process upscale and changes/optimizations 
introduced during development. Respective changes and their impact to the quality of the active substance 
have been evaluated and considered satisfactory. The clinical batch is representative of the proposed 
commercial manufacture process. 
Characterization 
The data on the structural characteristics of the recombinant teriparatide result from investigations 
performed on several batches. The characterisation of the active substance has been performed with 
orthogonal methods appropriate for this molecule and it is satisfactory. 
These studies comprised confirmation of the amino acid and the nucleotide sequence, analysis of peptide 
properties such as molecular mass, isoelectric point and UV spectrum, studies to elucidate primary, 
secondary and tertiary structure, investigations on purity, content and related substances, and 
physicochemical characteristics such as clarity, colour and pH value. 
For biological and immunochemical characterization a cell-based potency assay and an ELISA, respectively, 
were used. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 15/47 
 
  
  
Product-related impurities were shown to be reduced during the commercial manufacturing process and are 
monitored during manufacturing, release and stability testing. 
As for the process-related impurities, clearance validation studies have been performed to demonstrate that 
the manufacturing process provides adequate removal of such impurities. 
Specification 
The active substance specification tests and limits are acceptable; the specification includes general tests, 
identity, content, potency, purity, product and process-related impurities and microbial purity. 
Analytical methods 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with ICH guidelines. For compendial methods, method verification was demonstrated. 
Batch analysis 
The batch release data from process validation batches and commercial scale batches conform to 
specifications. In addition, data from several pre-commercial DSP scale batches, including the non-clinical 
batch also conform to the specifications which were in force at the time of manufacture. 
Reference materials 
The WHO International Standard Parathyroid Hormone 1-34 (teriparatide) was used as the standard during 
potency calibration and content determination of the applicant´s in-house teriparatide reference standards. 
Detailed data for these calibrations and calibrations against the WHO international reference standard of the 
in-house reference standard were submitted.  
Stability 
The stability results (long term, accelerated and stress studies) indicate that the active substance is 
sufficiently stable and justify the proposed self-life in the proposed container. The parameters tested are the 
same as for release. Photostability studies indicate that the active substance is photolabile and should be 
protected from light. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
Description of the product 
Terrosa 20 micrograms/80 microliters (20 µg/80 µL) solution for injection is a clear, colourless solution. Each 
cartridge contains 2.4 mL of solution. 
The excipients of the finished product are acetic acid glacial, sodium acetate trihydrate, mannitol, metacresol, 
water for injections, hydrochlorid acid 10% solution (for pH adjustment) and sodium hydroxide 10% solution 
(for pH adjustment). 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 16/47 
  
  
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. 
The primary packaging is a glass cartridge (siliconised Type I glass), with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl) and 
disc seal (aluminium and rubber liner seals). The material complies with Ph.Eur. The choice of the container 
closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. 
The aim of the formulation development programme for Terrosa 20µg/80µL solution for injection was to 
develop a stable injection formulation, which is biosimilar to the reference medicinal product, Forsteo. 
The route of administration and volume to be administered are identical to those of the reference product. 
At the early stage of product development an initial assessment of critical quality attributes (CQA) was 
performed to evaluate typical aspects of sterile liquid dosage forms that could potentially affect the product 
purity, strength and stability. These potential CQAs were derived from the QTPP and prior knowledge and 
were used to guide the product and process development. 
Target values of quality attributes were determined based on the relevant Ph. Eur. chapters and regulatory 
guidelines. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Manufacture 
The finished product is manufactured, assembled and primary and secondary packed at Gedeon Richter Plc. 
The manufacturing method consists of 5 stages, namely: dispensing, preparation of the concentrated 
formulation buffer, filtration and dilution of the concentrated formulation buffer, preparation of the bulk drug 
product solution with pre-filtration, final sterile filtration and filling of the siliconized sterilised cartridges. The 
cartridges are sealed with plunger stoppers and disc seals. Adequate in-process controls are in place for each 
stage. 
Process validation 
It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of 
intended quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate. 
Container Closure System 
The pen (ServoPen Fix) is customized for use with Teriparatide 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for 
injection only, and its construction is based on reusable, multidose ServoPen platform from Ypsomed. 
Specifications for the pen and the needles are presented as well as a declaration of conformity from the 
notified body (Ypsomed). 
Compliance with ISO 11608-3 for the commercial cartridge system for use in needle based injection systems 
(NIS) with pen needles was demonstrated. 
Dose accuracy testing according to ISO 11608-1:2012 was performed and the data indicate compliance. 
Product specification 
The product specification includes physical, identification, purity tests, and assays. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 17/47 
 
 
 
  
  
The tests, acceptance criteria and methods are considered adequate. During the review specification limits 
were tightened, but no substantial changes were implemented. 
The level of impurities is generally very low in the finished product. Their reduction/elimination by the 
manufacturing process is appropriately controlled. The related substances specification limits were tightened 
during the procedure. Discrepancies of the extractable volume between the finished product specification and 
test method description were appropriately explained. 
Analytical methods 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with ICH guidelines. For compendial methods, method verification was demonstrated. 
Batch analysis 
Batch analysis data of the finished product were provided. The results are within the specifications and 
confirm consistency of the manufacturing process.  
Characterization of impurities 
The manufacturing process of the active substance and finished product has been optimised to eliminate or 
sufficiently reduce the formation of product-related impurities and to maintain their level below the 
acceptable limit up to the end of shelf life of the finished product. 
Reference materials 
The teriparatide in house standard is discussed in detail in the active substance part. 
For related substances PTH(1-30) standard was used as reference substance only for analytical method 
validation. 
Stability of the product 
Based on available stability data, the 24 months at 2-8°C shelf-life and storage conditions (Store in a 
refrigerator (2-8°C). Do not freeze. Keep cartridge in the outer carton), as stated in the SmPC, are 
acceptable. 
The evaluation of stability data of Teriparatide 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection – further 
supported by the statistical analysis – proves that 24 months of shelf-life can be agreed. 
Additionally, the applicant has agreed to place a batch of drug product which is made from drug substance 
held at 2-8°C for 3 months into a GMP stability study, as requested to provide further data to support use of 
the active substance stored under these conditions for manufacture of finished product. 
In-use stability 
In-use stability tests were performed to demonstrate that the multi-dose product is capable of withstanding 
the conditions of repeated use according to the Note for guidance on in-use stability testing of human 
medicinal product (CPMP/QWP/2934/99, 2001). 
The in-use stability study of batches was planned within the period of the ICH long-term stability study of 
each batch. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 18/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
All parameters tested met the acceptance criteria described in the specification at all testing time points (day 
14 and day 28) and support an in-use shelf life of 28 days at 2-8°C. 
Photostability testing 
Photostability testing was conducted according to the recommendations of ICH Q1B. The results show that 
the finished product is sensitive to light. This is in accordance with the observations made on the active 
substance. Consequently, the SmPC includes appropriate statement with regard to keeping the product 
protected from light. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines (6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal products in the 
European Union), any confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant negative trend, should be reported 
to the Rapporteur and EMA. 
Biosimilarity 
Comparability ranges 
To claim similarity of Terrosa to the reference medicinal product, Forsteo (Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.) a thorough 
physicochemical, structural and biological characterisation as well as impurity profiling have been performed. 
Multiple batches of reference Forsteo medicinal product (EU sourced) were comprehensively analysed in order 
to generate a representative quality profile. Reference ranges were established using appropriate statistical 
methods. Multiple Terrosa batches were used for the determination of variability ranges for critical quality 
attributes for the biosimilar. 
Descriptive statistics were used for establishment of the comparability ranges. 
In the case of purity tests and assays, the results were subjected to the same statistical analyses as data 
obtained on reference product batches. For parameters exhibiting time dependence, stability data of the 
batches was integrated also into the discussion. 
The detected impurity levels in Terrosa and Forsteo were overall comparable. The degradation patterns of the 
two products were also found to be similar and the amounts of impurities were within the comparability 
ranges for both tested products. 
Stability: 
Comparison of purity and biological activity during an accelerated stability study (storage condition of 25 ± 
2°C for 3 months) was done with one 18 months old Forsteo batch. The results were compared with 3-
month accelerated stability data of representative Terrosa finished product batches. Results by RP-HPLC 
showed that impurities observed after storage at 25°C are present in Forsteo as well as in the RGB-10 
finished product sample. According to the comparative LC-MS studies the structure of the observed 
degradation products was identical in Forsteoand RGB-10 finished product. 
Furthermore a sample of Forsteo after 2 months of storage at accelerated storage (25 ± 2°C) was subjected 
to LC-MS analysis for peak identification (age of batch at start of storage was 18 months). For comparative 
purposes one 2-month accelerated stability sample of RGB-10 finished product was analysed, as well, and the 
degradation patterns were compared. The observed degradation products could be identified as oxidized and 
mostly deamidated isoforms. Structure of the common components proved to be identical in both product 
samples. 
Side-by-side comparison 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 19/47 
 
 
  
  
The parameters tested were physical tests (appearance, pH both Ph.Eur), molecular weight, primary 
structure, secondary structure, identification tests, purity tests, biological characterisation (Cell-based 
Bioassay , receptor binding assay) and assay (teriparatide/rh PTH(1-34) ). The data indicate that all relevant 
parameters are comparable between Terrosa and Forsteo; where slight variations between the two products 
are observed, these are within the comparability ranges and do not give reason to question similarity. 
The comparability program was extended to stress studies and the results reveal similar behaviour (including 
for product degradation pattern, comparable decrease in biological activity) of both products at the various 
conditions applied. Quantitative differences were noted between Terrosa and Forsteo when subjected to light 
exposure - mainly attributed to oxidation products. However, as the product is stored in the carton, 
comparability is not affected. 
Dose accuracy 
A comparative dose accuracy study with the Forsteo pen system and the ServoPen Fix system used for 
Terrosa was conducted. From a quality point of view accurate dosing of at least 20µg/80µl was demonstrated 
for both device systems. 
Conclusion 
Teriparatide is a relatively simple molecule, as it is a monomer and contains no glycosylation or other post-
translational modifications. To claim the similarity of Terrosa to its reference medicinal product, a thorough 
physicochemical, structural and biological characterisation as well as impurity profiling has been performed. 
Multiple batches of reference Forsteo medicinal product (EU sourced) were comprehensively analysed in order 
to generate a representative quality profile, i.e. to determine the reference ranges using appropriate 
statistical methods. All reference product batches used for the comparability tests were from commercial 
markets of the European Union. Multiple Terrosa batches were used for the determination of the reference 
ranges. Descriptive statistics were used for establishment of the comparability ranges. 
A satisfactory side by side comparison was performed on three batches of the proposed product. 
Additionally, comparability was also demonstrated during stability and stress testing studies. 
The biosimilarity exercise is robust and that there are no residual uncertainties arising from the quality 
comparison. Based on the results from the comparability exercise it can be concluded that Terrosa is similar 
to Forsteo, from a quality perspective. 
Adventitious agents 
No materials of animal or human origin are used for manufacturing of Teriparatide 20 micrograms/80 
microliters solution for injection. 
In addition, the active substance is manufactured by fermentation using an Escherichia coli expression 
system. 
This prokaryotic expression system does not support the growth of viral adventitious agents in the active 
substance and therefore there are no viral risks associated with this product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 20/47 
 
 
 
 
  
  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Quality Development 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product hasbeen 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
As discussed under specification of the active substance, specifications that are appropriate for this product 
have been approved. 
No Major Objections were raised during the procedure. However, a number of Other Concerns were initially 
identified, which were all adequately addressed during the evaluation process. 
Extensive physicochemical, structural and biological characterisation as well as impurity profiling of both 
Terrosa and the reference product Forsteo has been undertaken and a high degree of similarity has been 
demonstrated. Head-to-head comparability data has been provided for three batches of each product, and 
the results support the conclusion that Terrosa can be considered biosimilar to Forsteo. Additionally, 
biosimilarity was also demonstrated during stability and stress testing studies. The statistical approach used 
was sufficiently explained. 
Differences between Forsteo and Terrosa in certain impurity parameters were appropriately discussed and 
justified.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented and is satisfactory. The batch data results indicate consistency and uniformity of important product 
quality characteristics through shelf life, and these in turn substantiate a satisfactory and uniform 
performance in clinical use. 
The active substance and the finished product have been appropriately characterised and satisfactory 
documentation has been provided. The description of the manufacturing process and the manufacturing 
development is adequate. 
Based on the quality data provided, Terrosa is considered to be biosimilar to Forsteo. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommended two points for investigation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 21/47 
 
 
 
  
  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The non-clinical programme for the development of RGB-10 (teriparatide biosimilar product) focused on the 
investigation of comparability and the demonstration of similarity between RGB-10 and the reference 
medicinal product Forsteo. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology  
A panel of in vitro and in vivo assays were developed, used to generate similarity limits derived from 
originator batches and test for comparability of the biosimilar candidate with the reference medicinal product. 
The Applicant has chosen a competitive ELISA assay to test for receptor binding. The Applicant conducted no 
ICH Q2(R1) compliant validation (i.e. a reportable value of the RBA was not defined prior validation), which is 
acceptable recognizing the comparatively simple structure of the protein and also limitations of the method 
(difficulty of expressing full length PTH1R and providing results for two cell-based bioassays). Detailed 
information about the PTH1R, being a critical reagent for the RBA, has been provided. 
Reference ranges were calculated based on results for relative potency of five Forsteo batches tested in three 
independent assays. 3σ limits were calculated from the geometric mean (100.915 U/mg) corresponding to a 
relative interval of 83 -120%. Accordingly, the reference range was defined as 80 to 125% of the mean 
receptor binding activity of Forsteo (80.732 – 126.144 U/mg). Side-by-side comparisons were performed 
using 3 Forsteo and 3 RGB-10 DP batches from commercial scale and site, indicating similarity (106, 103 and 
106 % potency for the three RGB DP batches related to the Forsteo reference range mean binding activity 
100.915 U/mg = 100%). 
The calculation of reference limits is based on 5 different reference medicinal product (RMP) batches.only, 
calculating 3σ limits from the geometric mean of three independent determinations. For the purposes of 
testing biosimilarity the use of different batches increases the number of determinations and is as such 
supportable. Two cell-based bioassays were applied to comparatively measure activation of the PTHR1 by 
detecting the release of cAMP after teriparatide binding and activation of PTHRusing the rat osteosarcoma cell 
line UMR-106 and the human osteosarcoma Saos-2 cells together with the WHO international standard 
(NIBSC code 04/200). 
The rat osteosarcoma cell line UMR-106 based bioassay was validated according to ICH Q2(R1) for 
intermediate precision, accuracy, linearity, repeatability, specificity (using the drug product formulation 
buffer) applying an acceptance criterion of GCV ≤  20 %. Multifactorial design of experiments identified that 
the parameter operator has a significant effect on the final potency result (in contrast to parameters days of 
starvation, control sample and plate). However, the validation parameter accuracy was met for each 
operator. The definition of the reference range based on the calculation of 3σ limits from the geometric mean 
of testing five Forsteo batches, leading to a less stringent range of 8409.3 to 13139.5 IU/mg. However, side-
by-side analysis in 3 individual assessments indicates high comparability (105%, 97% and 99% for the three 
tested RGB-10 batches, relative to a mean activity value for Forsteo).  
Also for the Saos-2 cell based bioassay comparability was shown for the three tested RGB-10 batches (i.e. 
101%, 101% and 109%, respectively) relative to a mean activity value for Forsteo). 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 22/47 
  
  
Putative product-related impurities/substances were assayed with both bioassays, confirming the expected 
reduction or nullification of potency for truncated and deamidated versions of teriparatide. These results 
provide additional evidence for the sensitivity and discriminatory power of both bioassays. 
Regarding the non-clinical development the Applicant provided in vitro binding data and in vitro functional 
data by a bioassay using human bone osteoblasts and osteoclasts. 
In addition the applicant also provided within this MAA results of a 4-week, comparative PK/PD study in 
female SD rats (daily sc dosing of 10 or 40 µg/kg/day). 
The subcutaneous administration of RGB-10 or Forsteo at 10 and 40 μg/kg/day to female rats for 4 weeks 
resulted in similar dose-dependent increases in bone mass (bone mineral content) and/or bone geometry at 
the distal femur metaphysis and femur diaphysis. At a concentration of 10 μg/kg/day no statistically 
significant difference in bone densitometry parameters was observed between the RGB-10 and Forsteo 
groups. However, in the 40 μg/kg/day groups, effects on the bone mineral content at the distal femur 
metaphysis and the diaphysis in RGB-10-dosed rats were statistically higher than those administered Forsteo.  
The pharmacokinetics of RGB-10 or Forsteo was also assessed in this study. Overall, no relevant differences 
in the exposure between RGB-10 and Forsteo were observed. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of RGB-10 were studied in rats. The type of studies conducted to compare 
the pharmacokinetics of RGB-10 and Forsteo is considered to be acceptable. 
The methods of analysis to determine levels of teriparatide and anti-teriparatide antibodies in rat plasma or 
serum and cAMP in cell extracts have been provided. Validation reports for the assays are considered 
adequate. The methods are generally considered to be suitably validated. 
In the 4-week pharmacodynamics/pharmacokinetic study in rats subcutaneously administered 10 and 40 
μg/kg doses of Forsteo or RGB-10, an increase in Cmax and AUC(0-inf) was observed with increasing dose of 
RGB-10 and Forsteo. The increase in Cmax was slightly less than dose proportional between the 10 and 40 
μg/kg doses of Forsteo or RGB-10. The increase in AUC(0-inf) was approximately dose proportional for RGB-10 
but slightly greater than dose proportional for Forsteo. Exposure to RGB-10 appeared to be higher than to 
Forsteo by up to 1.7-fold.  
No distribution, metabolism, excretion or drug interaction studies were conducted with teriparatide. In 
compliance with ICH guidance (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832), this is acceptable. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
A 4-week toxicology study was conducted in rats subcutaneously administered 30, 100 or 300μg/kg/day 
RGB-10 or Forsteo. Comparable increases in bone mass and/or bone geometry were observed in animals 
treated with either Forsteo or RGB-10. The changes in multiple bones observed (such as increased bone/bone 
formation, epiphyseal thickening/thinning, and/or focal resorption) were attributed to the pharmacological 
action of RGB-10 and Forsteo. 
Slight changes in haematology and clinical chemistry parameters, considered secondary to the 
pharmacological effects of both test compounds as bone anabolic agents, were associated with treatment-
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 23/47 
  
  
related effects in the spleen (increased weight, enlargement and extramedullary haematopoiesis), and 
adrenal gland (cortical vacuolation). 
Based on the treatment-related changes in the spleen and the increased bone/bone formation in high dose 
animals, the no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) was considered to be 100 μg/kg/day. 
In a 4-week repeat dose toxicity study in rats subcutaneously administered Forsteo or RGB-10 at 30, 100 and 
300μg/kg/day, the systemic exposure (in terms of C max and AUC) to Forsteo and RGB-10 increased with dose 
levels, but was not consistently dose proportional. At Day 1, exposure to RGB-10 appeared to be higher (up 
to 3.2-fold) than to Forsteo; however, differences in exposure appeared less at Day 28.  
The formation of ADAs was assessed. No significant difference was observed between the incidence of anti-
Forsteo and anti-RGB-10 antibodies at any dose level and no neutralizing anti-teriparatide antibodies were 
detected. The ADA formation appeared to have had no impact on the toxicokinetic parameters or 
pharmacological activity determined for Forsteo and RGB-10. 
For the determination of anti-drug antibody (ADA) formation, blood samples were taken pre-treatment and at 
the end of the dosing period (Day 29). Immunogenicity was evaluated as part of the 4-week repeat-dose 
toxicity study. 
A dose-related effect was observed regarding the incidence of samples confirmed positive for anti-drug 
antibodies against both, RGB-10 and Forsteo. The incidence of confirmed positive samples was higher for 
RGB-10 in comparison with Forsteo at all dose levels. In addition, RGB-10 samples at 30 μg/kg/day displayed 
higher antibody titers than observed at 100μg/kg/day; however these were not associated with any effects 
on the pharmacological action of the compounds. None of the samples confirmed positive for the presence of 
either anti-Forsteo or anti-RGB-10 antibodies were found positive for the presence of neutralising anti-
teriparatide antibodies. 
The clinical relevance of anti-teriparatide antibodies is considered negligible, as stated in the EPAR of Forsteo. 
There is no evidence that these antibodies neutralise the biological activity of teriparatide or produce any 
adverse clinical outcomes. However, these non-clinical results support the requests for further investigation 
and follow up of immunogenicity, as concluded in the clinical assessment of immunogenicity. 
No new genotoxicity studies were conducted with teriparatide. In compliance with ICH guidance, this is 
acceptable. No carcinogenicity studies were conducted with teriparatide. In compliance with ICH guidance 
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832), this is acceptable. 
No reproductive and developmental toxicity studies were conducted with teriparatide. In compliance with ICH 
guidance (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832), this can be accepted. 
Local tolerance was assessed as part of the 4-week repeated dose toxicity study of RGB-10 and Forsteo. 
Findings similar in appearance and incidence were observed across all groups. The findings were therefore 
considered to be related to the experimental procedure and / or the vehicle and not to teriparatide treatment. 
Dependence studies were not conducted. There is no indication that this compound would cause dependence. 
No metabolites of this compound have been reported. Therefore the applicant has not discussed the 
metabolism of teriparatide. The peptide is expected to be broken down into constituent amino acids and 
therefore studies on metabolites are not required.  
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 24/47 
  
  
RGB-10, as teriparatide is the active substance, is a recombinant human peptide and therefore not expected 
to pose a risk to the environment. 
The Applicant provided an appropriate justification for not submitting an Environmental Risk Assessment, as 
postulated in the CHMP guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00). 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
In support of the development programme for a biosimilar to teriparatide, the preclinical development 
programme was designed to show biosimilarity of RGB-10 to the reference medicinal product Forsteo by 
applying different comparative methods. 
The biosimilar candidate presents a rather simple, non-glycosylated structure; it is produced in the same host 
cell type as the innovator product and also the same DP formulation is used. Thus from this perspective, no 
special considerations are to be raised. 
Results of a competitive ELISA to test receptor binding were provided and generally proved comparability. 
Regarding receptor binding, no orthogonal method was presented, which is considered sufficient given (i) the 
comparatively simple structure of teriparatide, (ii) that PTH1R expression is anyway limited to the 
extracellular domain (representing the binding site, while whole length PTH1R includes a challenging-to-
express and purify transmembrane region, which is also known to contain a low affinity binding structure, but 
is also capable of activating the receptor) and (iii) the provision of bioassays sufficiently reflecting 
pharmacology. 
Consequently in vitro assessment focussed on the development and validation of a cell-based bioassay, 
making use of a rat osteosarcoma cell line UMR-106 and measuring intracellular rise in cAMP concentration 
upon activation of the PTHR1. Besides that, human osteosarcoma cell line Saos-2 cells were used to setup a 
second bioassay, to provide potency readouts for a cell line of human origin. Both assays also showed 
reduced or completely diminished potency as the expected behaviour for truncated and deamidated versions 
of teriparatide, which generally supports applicability and sensitivity of both methods. 
Biosimilarity was generally shown at the in vitro level, with the additional data considered as being 
supportive. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
The provided non-clinical comparability testing strategy is regarded as sufficient in the context of a biosimilar 
development. Applicable regulatory guidelines were taken into consideration and recommendations provided 
in the frame of scientific advice procedures were followed. Comparative pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic 
and toxicology data demonstrated biosimilarity between RGB-10 and the reference product Forsteo. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 25/47 
 
  
  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
The clinical development programme to show biosimilarity between RGB-10 (teriparatide 20 µg/80 µL 
solution for injection) and Forsteo consists of a single comparative pharmacokinetic (PK) study in 54 healthy 
women (Celerion Project No. AA99812, Richter Project No. RGB-10-001, EudraCT No. 2013-004040-31). 
•  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Table 1: 
2.4.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
The comparison of the PK profiles of RGB-10 and Forsteo was the primary objective of study RBG-10-001, 
which is described below. 
Study Design 
Study RGB-10-001 was a randomised, active-controlled, double-blind (via 3rd party), single-centre, single 20-
µg fixed-dose, (planned for) 2-stage, 2-period, 2-sequence crossover study, planned to compare the PK of 
RGB-10 (biosimilar teriparatide) with that of the reference medicinal product Forsteo (EU-sourced) in 54 
healthy adult female premenopausal subjects. 
Subjects were randomised to treatment sequences AB or BA, where treatment A was the single-dose 
administration of RGB-10 and treatment B was the single-dose administration of Forsteo. 
A single 20 µg/80 µL sc injection of RGB-10 or Forsteo was administered in the morning (around 08:00) of 
each period. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 26/47 
 
 
 
 
  
  
There were two dosing days (Period 1 Day 1 and Period 2 Day 1), which were separated by a washout period 
of 24 hours (+ up to 1 hour). In each period blood sampling for PK evaluation was performed before dosing 
(within 30 minutes) and at 10, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 120, 180, and 240 minutes post dose. 
Study participants 
54 healthy adult female premenopausal subjects entered the study and were randomised to either of the two 
treatment arms, AB (test-reference) or BA (reference-test), meaning they acted as their own control group 
[Sequence AB (n=28), Sequence BA (n=26)]. 
Of the 54 female subjects participating, 53 subjects were white and one subject was white-Asian. The mean 
age for all subjects was 29.2 years (range 18– 48 years), the mean weight was 62.1 kg (range 51.0 –  83.0 
kg), the mean height was 164 cm (range 154– 183 cm), and the mean body mass index (BMI) was 23.0 
kg/m2 (range 19.1– 27.0 kg/m2). 
Treatments 
• 
• 
Treatment A (test): A single 20 µg/80 µL SC injection of RGB-10 (Gedeon Richter, batch No. E41002, 
expiration date; Jan 2015) 
Treatment B (reference): A single 20 µg/80 µL sc injection of Forsteo (Lilly France S.A.S., batch No. 
C142910F, expiration date: Feb 2015). 
Test (RGB-10) was supplied as teriparatide 20 µg/80 µL SC solution for injection in a cartridge inserted in a 
reusable, multi-dose ServoPen Fix pen injector, manufactured by Ypsomed AG, Switzerland. One Terrosa 
cartridge of 2.4 mL contains 600 micrograms of teriparatide (corresponding to 250 µg per mL).   
In the course of the procedure, a dose accuracy test was performed comparing commercial pens of the 
reference product (Forsteo), as well as pens (ServoPen Fix) of the test product (RGB-10). Both the Forsteo 
pen and the ServoPen Fix were within the range of 80 ± 10 µL per dose, and hence can be seen as 
comparable. 
Reference (Forsteo) was supplied as teriparatide 20 µg/80 µL sc solution for injection in a pre-filled pen. One 
Forsteo pre-filled pen of 2.4 mL contains 600 µg of teriparatide (corresponding to 250 µg per mL). 
For both devices (i.e., ServoPen Fix and Forsteo pen) the same type of needle: BD Micro-Fine™+ Pen Needle 
(0.25 mm (31G), TW, 8 mm) was used. 
Subjects received the subcutaneous injection in a semi-reclined or supine position, into the right side of the 
abdomen in period 1, into the left side of the abdomen in period 2.  
Analytical Assay 
The PK profiles of teriparatide were evaluated by means of teriparatide (RGB-10 and Forsteo) determination 
in human plasma samples using a validated enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The lower limit of 
quantitation (LLOQ) to upper limit of quantitation (ULOQ) analytical range for teriparatide was 6.00 to 150 
pg/mL. The method was validated with respect to accuracy, precision, linearity, sensitivity, specificity, and 
stability.  
Data provided in the reports generally support the cross-validation of the ELISA to detect RGB-10 and 
Forsteo in human plasma. For the cross validation of the PTH(1-34) human plasma samples containing 
analyte are pre-treated with beads coated with goat anti-human PTH(39-84) (using the standard procedure 
outlined by the ELISA kit’s manufacturers) it is noted that cross-reactivity with human PTH(1-84) is not 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 27/47 
 
  
  
significant in the initial validation of this ELISA. All validations and samples have been pre-treated with the 
beads coated with anti-human PTH(39-84) in order to lower the LLOQ by reducing/removing cross reactivity 
of the assay with endogenous PTH. Since endogenous PTH is an interfering factor in the assay for PTH(1-34) 
and all samples are treated equally, this is acceptable.  
PK parameters 
Primary PK parameters 
AUC0-tlast  
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve to the last measurable concentration 
Cmax 
Maximum plasma concentration 
Equivalence for the primary endpoints was to be concluded if the 94.12% CIs of the ratios of geometric least 
squares means (LSMs) (derived from the analyses on the natural log (ln)-transformed PK parameters AUC0-
tlast and Cmax) of the test to the reference product were completely within the acceptance interval of 80.00-
125.00 %. 
Secondary PK parameters 
t max 
t ½ 
time to maximum concentration 
apparent terminal elimination half-life 
Other PK parameters 
AUC0-inf  
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve to infinity 
AUC%extrap 
Percent of area under the plasma concentration versus time curve to infinity extrapolated 
tlast 
kel 
CL/F 
Vz/F 
Results 
time to last measurable concentration 
apparent terminal elimination rate constant 
apparent total clearance 
apparent distribution volume 
Disposition of subjects 
Of the 54 healthy adult female premenopausal subjects entering the study and being randomised to either of 
the two treatment arms, 53 completed both periods (one subject withdrew consent for personal reasons), 
and 51 were included in the final PK-analysis set. One subject was excluded because of pre-dose 
concentrations >5% of Cmax in both periods, and another subject was excluded because of too many missing 
blood draws in period 2 compromising the integrity of the PK parameters. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 28/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Primary PK-parameters (AUC0-tlast, Cmax) 
Table 2: Summary of Statistical Comparisons of Plasma Teriparatide Pharmacokinetic Parameters 
Following a Single 20 μg/80 μL sc Injection of RGB-10 and Forsteo (Treatment A Versus 
Treatment B) 
Other PK-parameters 
Table 3: Summary of Plasma Teriparatide Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following a Single 20 
μg/80 μL sc Injection of RGB-10 and Forsteo (Treatment A and B) 
Remark: These results represent the geometric mean values from the measured results (without any 
corrections) in comparison to the corrected values from the table above (concerning mainly the primary 
endpoints). 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 29/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Summary of trial  
Title:  A  Randomised,  Double-Blind,  Single,  20  Microgram  Fixed  Dose,  Two-Way  Crossover 
Comparative Pharmacokinetic Study of RGB-10 and Forsteo in Two Stages, in Healthy Adult Female 
Subjects 
Study identifier 
RGB-10-001 
Design 
Single center, double-blind (via third-party), randomised, single, 20 μg/80 μL 
fixed dose, 2-way crossover comparative PK study planned in 2 stages, in 
healthy adult female subjects. A second center was planned but did not dose 
any subjects. Following the completion of Stage 1, an interim analysis was 
performed using unblinded PK data from Stage 1, and a decision was made 
to consider the study complete. 
Duration of main phase: 
2 periods of ca. 12 hours each; washout 
phase of 24 hours between both doses  
48 hours 
not applicable 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Equivalence 
Treatments groups 
RGB-10  
(Treatment A / Test) 
Forsteo  
(Treatment B / Reference) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Co-Primary 
endpoint 
AUC0-tlast 
Co-Primary 
endpoint 
Cmax 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Not found 
t max 
t 1/2 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
a single 20 μg/80 μL sc injection of RGB-10 
(batch No. E41002)  
number randomized = 54 
a single 20 μg/80 μL sc injection of Forsteo 
(Lilly France S.A.S., batch No. C142910F) 
number randomized = (the same) 54  
94.12% CIs of the LSM ratios derived from 
the analyses of the ln-transformed Area 
under the plasma concentration versus time 
curve to the last measurable concentration 
of test to reference formulation 
94.12% CIs of the LSM ratios derived from 
the analyses of the ln-transformed Maximum 
measured plasma concentration of test to 
reference formulation 
Non-parametric analysis of time of the 
maximum measured plasma concentration  
Apparent terminal elimination half-life  
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Per protocol 
(Blood drawings for PK parameters lasted 4 hours in both periods) 
Treatment group 
RGB-10  
Number of 
subjects 
AUC0-tlast 
(pg*hr/mL) 
geometric mean 
51 
92.443  
Forsteo  
51 
100.857  
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 30/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Cmax (pg/mL) 
geometric mean 
t 1/2 (hr) 
geometric mean 
t max (hr) 
arithmetic mean 
83.192  
90.179  
0.654  
(39.24 min) 
0.334 
(20.04 min) 
0.715 
(42.9 min) 
0.417 
(25.02 min) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Co-Primary 
endpoint 
AUC0-tlast 
Co-Primary 
endpoint 
Cmax 
Secondary 
endpoint 
t 1/2 
Secondary 
endpoint 
t max 
Comparison groups 
RGB-10 vs Forsteo  
Geometric mean ratio 
(%) 
94.12% CI 
91.66 
85.20-98.60 
Comparison groups 
RGB-10 vs Forsteo 
Within 80.00-125.00% 
Geometric mean ratio 
(%) 
94.12% CI 
92.25 
85.51-99.52 
Within 80.00-125.00% 
Comparison groups 
RGB-10 vs Forsteo 
Geometric mean ratio 
(%) 
94.12% CI 
91.39 
83.28-100.29 
Comparison groups 
RGB-10 vs Forsteo 
Non parametric median 
-0.075 
90% CI 
p-value 
-0.105; -0.007 
0.031 
Notes 
Although the primary efficacy parameters were within the predefined 80.00 
to 125.00% range, there seems to be a slight difference of around 8% 
between the respective GMRs. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
For the information of the PD properties of teriparatide, the Applicant relied on the documentation of the 
reference product Forsteo. 
However, during the procedure, the applicant provided supportive data from the PK study, where increases in 
serum calcium upon teriparatide application were measured as part of the safety assessments and could be 
evaluated as a PD parameter. 
Teriparatide is known to cause transient increases in calcium after each dose. This is observed in healthy 
volunteers and patients and is believed to be due to increased intestinal absorption and increased tubular 
reabsorption of calcium in response to teriparatide. The maximum calcium response is observed at 
approximately 4.25 hours in patients, with a median increase of 0.1mmol/L. The serum calcium concentration 
returns to normal by 16-24 hours after each dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 31/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
During the comparative PK study (AA99812), serum calcium was measured at pre-dose and at 120, 180 and 
240 minutes, and 6, 8 and 12 hours post-dose, as a safety endpoint. Calcium could also be analysed as a PD 
parameter. It is acknowledged that the available time-points are infrequent, and an equivalence margin was 
not pre-specified. However a comparable calcium response for RGB-10 and Forsteo would provide supportive 
evidence of similarity. The company was asked to provide comparative serum calcium concentration-time 
curves for RGB-10 and Forsteo. The analysis should include the PD parameters AUC, Cmax and t max. 95% 
confidence intervals should be provided. 
Overlay-plot for serum calcium (mean ± SE) and mean teriparatide profiles 
Figure 1: 
Statistical analysis of all serum calcium PD parameters showed close similarity between RGB-10 and Forsteo® 
with GMRs very close to 100% for AUC and Cmax and median difference close to zero for t max. This, together 
with the high similarity between PK and PD profiles illustrated above support the conclusion of the two 
treatments having equivalent PK/PD relationships. 
For further discussion of the serum calcium PD data from PK study (AA99812) see “Discussion on clinical 
pharmacology”, section “Pharmacodynamics”. 
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 32/47 
 
 
 
  
  
The choice of population and the design for the only clinical PK study of this abridged application are 
endorsed. 
Since investigation of similarity aims at excluding significant differences between two substances, a study 
population as homogenous as possible is recommended. There is no data suggestive of a difference in PTH 
receptor density between osteoporotic and healthy individuals, and the effect of teriparatide was shown to be 
similar across a wide range of subjects ranging from healthy volunteers and women with chronic conditions 
(such as hypertension, heart failure and renal impairment) to osteopenic and osteoporotic patients displaying 
various disease severity. The exclusion of male subjects, although included in the indication, is also deemed 
acceptable since a biosimilar exercise does not need to establish the PK for each population anew. 
Further to the demonstration of comparability between RGB-10 and the reference medicinal product Forsteo 
at the analytical and the non-clinical levels, the Applicant aimed at demonstrating therapeutic equivalence of 
RGB-10 to Forsteo in one comparative pharmacokinetic (PK) study in 54 healthy women.  In view of the 
simple structure of teriparatide and referring to the Biosimilar Guidelines (CHMP/437/04 Rev 1: “In specific 
circumstances…” and EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev1: “In exceptional cases…”), this is considered 
acceptable. 
AUC0-tlast and Cmax have been chosen as primary parameters. In this context, it is deemed acceptable, that 
the Applicant chose the Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ 
Corr **), stating “In studies to determine bioequivalence after a single dose, the parameters to be analysed 
are AUC(0-t) … and Cmax.”, for the selection of the primary parameters. Furthermore, both parameters are 
relevant and approved values for the comparison of bioequivalence and they are sensitive enough to show 
differences. 
The secondary endpoints were tmax and t1/2. 
The Applicant has pre-planned for a two-stage design, which allowed for stopping for equivalence at interim, 
as well as for a sample size reassessment. Regarding type I error control the testing procedure did foresee 
that as the first step in the initial stage 1 an interim analysis for equivalence was performed at the alpha level 
of 0.0294 (corresponding to a confidence interval of 94.12% coverage probability). According to this rule the 
trial was stopped after stage 1, concluding on equivalence. 
The 94.12% confidence intervals for the geometric mean ratios of the primary endpoints (AUC0-tlast and Cmax) 
of RGB-10 and Forsteo fell within the predefined equivalence margins of 80-125%, but 100%, i.e. unity was 
not included.. Mean AUC0-tlast and Cmax were around 8% lower following a single SC injection of RGB-10 
compared to Forsteo. The same picture (non-inclusion of 100%) resulted from the additionally requested 
90% CI of AUC0-tlast and C max. 
Based on EMA’s Biosimilar guideline (Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing 
biotechnology-derived proteins as active substance: non-clinical and clinical issues 
EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev1):“the interpretation of bioequivalence studies for biologicals is less 
straightforward than for small molecules. In the latter case the molecules are considered identical, whilst for 
biologicals, PK is used to detect possible differences in the interaction with the body between the originator 
and the biosimilar. This means that observing 90% CIs of ratios of biosimilar to reference product within a 
pre-specified, justified acceptance range may not, by itself, be sufficient. The location and the width of the 
confidence interval should also be taken into account in the interpretation of similarity. For example, 
statistically significant differences in 90% CIs within the justified acceptance range regarding relevant PK 
parameters would need to be explained and justified as not to preclude biosimilarity.”, a justification as to 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 33/47 
  
  
why there are differences and why these differences should not change efficacy and safety for patients 
receiving RGB-10 instead of Forsteo was requested and provided during the procedure (see below). 
The secondary endpoints, t max and t 1/2 were also slightly below those of Forsteo. 
Tmax occurred during the first sampling time-point for 17 subjects after receiving the test product and 10 
subjects after receiving the reference product. However the sampling commenced only 10 minutes after 
dosing. The sampling schedule was acceptable to CHMP (EMA/CHMP/SAWP/225300/2012) with the comment: 
samples taken before 10 minutes will be of limited value due to the high variability. During the d121 
response, it was assessed as doubtful that an earlier sampling time-point (e.g. 5 minutes or 7.5 minutes) 
would have resulted in a significantly greater mean Cmax for either test or reference product, given that the 
route of administration was subcutaneous rather than intravenous injection. 
Any underestimation of mean Cmax is more likely to affect the test product than the reference product, due to 
the increased number of observations affected. An underestimation of Cmax would also lead to an 
underestimation of AUC. Any increase in mean Cmax and AUC for the test product compared to the reference 
product would reduce the apparent difference in bioavailability between the test and reference product. It 
was agreed with the applicant that the addition of an earlier time-point would not have significantly affected 
results. If anything, the apparent difference in exposure between RGB-10 and Forsteo would have been 
reduced. 
Also, with regard to the mode of action of teriparatide, it was questioned, whether the 8 % lower AUC0-tlast 
and Cmax compared with the reference product may be relevant for the pharmacodynamic effects, as the 
skeletal effects of teriparatide depend upon the pattern of systemic exposure. Once-daily administration of 
teriparatide stimulates new bone formation on trabecular and cortical (periosteal and/or endosteal) bone 
surfaces by preferential stimulation of osteoblastic activity over osteoclastic activity. For this anabolic effect 
on bone, intermittent administration causing a high but short concentration spike of teriparatide is essential. 
Continuous administration of teriparatide induces preferential stimulation of osteoclastic activity over 
osteoblastic activity, leading to an increase in bone resorption and a decrease in bone strength, which 
resembles the pathophysiology of primary hyperparathyroidism. 
Literature and discussion provided by the applicant during the procedure support that rather the intermittent 
course of teriparatide therapy as opposed to continuous exposure accounts for the anabolic effect of 
treatment. 
While no definite estimation on the effect size of an “underexposure” of 8% (as compared with Forsteo) on 
the clinical outcome could be deduced, provided evidence points towards no/negligible effect: Data submitted 
for the approval of a single, non-weight corrected dose (20 μg) of Forsteo, which accounted for approx. 26% 
higher Cmax values if teriparatide was given to patients with lower body weight, as well as authorisation of 
elective administration sites (either abdomen or thigh) causing 18% - 44% lower Cmax values if teriparatide 
was given in the thigh instead of the abdominal wall, suggest that the observed difference is likely without 
meaningful clinical impact. 
Concerning other endpoints, shorter t last of RGB-10 and faster (apparent total plasma) Clearance (CL/F) 
compared to Forsteo, also could have led to the assumption that in vivo the organism is less exposed to RGB-
10 than to Forsteo following the same dose.  
The company argued that CL/F (apparent total plasma clearance) is a purely arithmetical value derived from 
dose (20 µg) and AUC and was of the opinion, that, due to the flip flop kinetics of teriparatide and an 
observed difference in t 1/2, rather a difference in absorption could be the driver of differences in exposure. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 34/47 
  
  
The applicant discussed the differences in the PK profiles from a statistical, device related, quality, 
bioanalytical and clinical perspective. The observed 8% difference in Cmax and AUC while still being within the 
acceptance range of 80-125% was probably made visible (i.e. reaches statistical significance) due to the 
overestimation of the sample size for the first stage of the study. No major differences were identified by 
further analyzing the delivered volumes, active content, structure of the active substance and the PK assay. 
Therefore, any remaining differences between RGB-10 and Forsteo were considered sufficiently small not to 
preclude a positive B/R. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The EMA-Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as 
active substance: non-clinical and clinical issues, (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev1, 2014) states in 
section 5.2. Pharmacodynamic studies: “In exceptional cases, the confirmatory clinical trial may be waived if 
physicochemical, structural and in vitro biological analyses and human PK studies together with a 
combination of PD markers that reflect the pharmacological action and concentration of the active substance, 
can provide robust evidence for biosimilar comparability.“ 
A limitation of the available PD marker Bone Mineral Density (BMD) and other biochemical markers of bone 
turnover, such as osteocalcin, bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, urine and serum N- or C-telopeptide of 
type I collagen and N-propeptide of type I procollagen, is that they are not considered very good surrogates 
for fracture risk reduction (see Guideline on the evaluation of medicinal products in the treatment of primary 
osteoporosis, (CPMP/EWP/552/95 Rev.2)). 
For teriparatide specifically, this has been documented in the literature: In a post hoc analysis of the Fracture 
Prevention Trial, the relationship between changes in lumbar spine BMD and vertebral fracture risk reduction 
with teriparatide treatment was assessed (Chen PJ Bone Miner Res 2006; 21:1785-1790). Teriparatide-
mediated increases in lumbar spine BMD accounted for only 30-41% of the reduction in vertebral fracture 
risk. 
Although it is recognised, that PD-markers might not be very sensitive in translating the full therapeutic (i.e. 
anti-fracture) effect of teriparatide, their evaluation could provide supportive data showing that the observed 
PK-differences do not directly translate into PD-differences. 
Serum calcium measured during the comparative PK study (AA99812) was analysed as a PD parameter (see 
above, Figure 1, in section “Phamacodynamics”). 
In the analyses provided during the procedure, the 95% confidence intervals of the geometric mean ratio of 
the test/reference corrected calcium are within 99-101%. The mean corrected calcium concentration-time 
profiles are also comparable according to Figure 1. However it is noted that the 2 hour mean calcium is 
reduced compared to the -2 hour mean calcium. 
The applicant was asked to explain the reason for the initial reduction in mean serum corrected calcium 
following administration of the test or reference product, as shown in Figure 1. 
In their responses, the Applicant provided non-clinical and clinical literature (Parsons et al 1971, Frolik et al 
2003, Borle 1968, “PDQ Physiology” by Uwe Ackermann, Maeda et al 2013, Forssman et al 2016) in order to 
explain the reason for the initial reduction in mean serum corrected calcium following administration of PTH. 
The underlying hypothesis is that parathyroid hormone increases calcium permeability of cell membranes, 
leading to calcium influx and consequent reduction in serum levels. Initial hypocalcaemia, around one hour 
post dose, was also observed in a clinical pharmacodynamic comparison of PTH(1-37) and teriparatide. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 35/47 
 
  
  
It was agreed with the applicant that the initial hypocalcaemia observed for RGB-10 and Forsteo is likely to 
be a real phenomenon based on the evidence presented, and that the initial 2-hour time point caught the tail 
end of the hypocalcaemic phase. Hence this issue was regarded resolved as well. 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The demonstration of clinical similarity is based on a comparative single-dose, cross-over PK study comparing 
single subcutaneous doses of RGB-10 and Forsteo. In principle, this was considered acceptable in the 
particular case of a small and simple biological such as teriparatide, if the PK study showed robust evidence 
for comparability. 
The observed difference in Cmax and AUC between RGB-10 and Forsteo likely became detectable (i.e. reached 
statistical significance) by an overestimation of the sample size for the first stage of the study (which is per 
se not a justification for the existence of a difference). Judging from available literature for Forsteo with 
regard to the impact of body weight and administration site on clinical outcomes, the clinical impact of the 
observed difference, however, was considered to be negligible. 
No major differences were identified by further analyzing delivered volumes, active content, structure of the 
active substance and the PK assay. 
Therefore RGB-10 and Forsteo were considered to be similar from a pharmacological perspective. 
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Clinical safety data are only available from Study RGB-10-001. 
Patient exposure 
54 healthy female premenopausal volunteers were enrolled and received at least one dose of the test 
product. Subject 2 (Treatment Sequence AB) received RGB-10 only in Period 1 before withdrawing from the 
study due to personal reasons. Thus, only 53 of the enrolled subjects received a single dose of 20 µg 
teriparatide SC (Test and Reference product in a cross-over design) in each of the 2 study periods with a 
wash out period of 24 hours in between. 
But all 54 enrolled subjects were included in the safety evaluation. 
Adverse events 
Experienced AE´s according to SOCs were: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
lower abdominal pain, dry lips, nausea, vomiting 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 36/47 
 
 
  
  
asthenia, catheter site erythema/inflammation/pain, injection site erythema, vessel puncture site 
pain/swelling, “feeling hot”, fatigue 
Investigations 
decreased O2 saturation 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
decreased appetite 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
back pain, limb discomfort, pain in extremity, myalgia 
Nervous system disorders 
dizziness, headache, paraesthesia, presyncope 
Psychiatric disorders 
nervousness 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
dysmenorrhoea 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  
ecchymosis, papule 
Vascular disorders 
hypotension, peripheral coldness 
Of the subjects dosed, (54 with RGB-10, 53 with Forsteo), 29 [54%] showed AEs after RGB-10, 33 [62%] 
after Forsteo. 
Of the 127 treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) registered, 52 appeared after treatment with RGB-10, 75 after 
treatment with Forsteo. Of the 52 AEs after RGB-10, 42 were judged mild, 10 moderate; 33 were judged 
drug-related, 19 not. Of the 75 AEs after Forsteo, 56 were judged mild, 19 moderate; 40 were judged drug-
related, 35 not. 
In the main study, the most frequently reported treatment-emergent adverse events were nausea (10 
subjects; 19% of subjects dosed), injection site erythema (9 subjects; 17%), dizziness (5 subjects; 9%), 
headache (5 subjects; 9%), vomiting (4 subjects; 7%) and presyncope (4 subjects; 7%) under RGB-10 
treatment. 
Under Forsteo the most frequently reported TEAEs were nausea (14 subjects; 26%), dizziness (11 subjects; 
21%), headache (11 subjects, 21%), injection site erythema (6 subjects, 11%), vomiting (3 subjects; 6%) 
and presyncope (3 subjects; 6%). 
The number of Adverse Events does not suggest a strong difference between treatments in terms of safety (if 
at all, trends point towards lower incidences of AEs under RGB-10 treatment). 
However, due to the small study population and the short duration of treatment including the cross-over with 
(only) 1 day of wash-out in between, these results have to be regarded with caution. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 37/47 
  
  
Of the 15 (9 with RGB-10, 6 with Forsteo) injection site erythemae documented, none met the (predefined) 
criteria for Grade 1 classification for injection site reactions according to FDA Guidance, neither did the other 
AEs described at the injection sites. Although no European classification system has been used, it can be 
agreed that, these injection site erythemae can be regarded as minor. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
No serious adverse event (SAE) or death occurred. 
Laboratory findings 
Mean results for serum chemistry, haematology, and urinalysis remained within reference range throughout 
the study with no remarkable observations in the change from baseline results. 
Concerning deviations of laboratory values, most of them were isolated slight deviations from the normal 
ranges. Only very few values were striking, because more subjects were concerned: 
Interesting was a decrease in LDH (in 14 subjects) from screening to post dose values. But this is not 
considered clinically relevant since no pathologies are known in this relation (besides from Vitamin C 
overdose, which is regarded unlikely). 
Changes concerning (traces of) blood in the urine also appeared in several subjects, but these were 
expectable due to menstruation. 
High urine calcium and low corrected calcium serum values were not only seen at screening but also post 
dose in several subjects. Obviously, the expected increase in total serum calcium 2 to 6 hours after 
teriparatide injection resulted only in slight elevations of the originally decreased corrected serum calcium 
values in some subjects. The slightly elevated urine calcium values are deemed expectable from teriparatide, 
but as some of them were pre-existent at screening already, not much weight is given to these slight 
changes, especially as they were seen with both treatments. 
There were no laboratory adverse events reported in this study. 
Since other laboratory parameters were not expected to change during the 3 days of the PK-study, 
haematology, urinalysis, serum chemistry (other than calcium), total cholesterol and triglycerides were only 
measured at screening, check-in and prior to discharge (for inclusion check and safety reasons). Hence, 
similar elaborate calculations, as were done for corrected calcium, vital signs and ECG values, would not be 
reasonable for values not expected to change during the short trial setting. Therefore, no further evaluation 
was finally requested. 
Immunological events 
No analysis of immunogenicity parameters has been performed, because the Applicant is of the opinion that a 
clinically relevant immunogenic potential of RGB-10 appears to be highly unlikely, as the immunogenic 
potential of Forsteo has proved to be negligible in the clinical studies for registration purposes as well as over 
the past ten years on the market. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 38/47 
  
  
Discontinuation due to AES 
No discontinuations due to AEs occurred in PK-study RGB-10-001. 
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Adverse events 
The small size of the safety database makes any comparison of the respective safety profiles unreliable as 
the significance of numerical differences based on 54 subjects treated, moreover in a single–dose cross-over 
administration, is uncertain. 
The type of AEs reported was in line with those listed in Forsteo SmPC, mostly nausea, dizziness, headache, 
injection site erythema, vomiting and presyncope. 
In comparison with the most frequently registered undesirable effect listed in the reference SmPC, namely 
“pain in limb”, only one subject with limb discomfort (2%) and 2 subjects with pain in extremity (4%) were 
registered in study RGB-10-001. This difference might possibly be attributable to the fact, that the 
administration of teriparatide in the RGB-10-001 study was limited to the abdomen. 
Injection site erythema were seen more often in the RGB-10 group (9 vs 6 subjects, or 17 vs 11%), but all of 
the described erythema were very mild and thus this difference was regarded as of no relevance. 
A history of sensitivity was an exclusion criterion in the comparative PK study because the ServoPen Fix pen 
injector used to administer RGB-10 may come into contact with latex during the manufacturing process. The 
applicant was asked to discuss whether a history of sensitivity to latex should be a contraindication for 
Terrosa. The Applicant confirmed that the Terrosa pen injector is free of latex traces. Therefore a history of 
sensitivity to latex does not need to be a contraindication. 
Immunogenicity 
According to the Applicant, the lack of immunogenicity concerns, characterising the past 12 years of market 
experience with Forsteo, might be the consequence of several different factors all reducing the risk of 
developing an immune response during teriparatide treatment. The fact of being a low molecular weight fully 
human molecule of microbial origin (i.e., lack of glycosylation) renders teriparatide less immunogenic 
compared to more complex biologicals. The continuous daily dosing regimen and the to some extent 
compromised immune system of the target population, either due to a certain degree of immunosenescence 
or as a result of sustained immunosuppressive treatment with systemic steroids, are thought to reduce the 
susceptibility of patients to immune-based adverse events. The Applicant sees the same conditions and 
circumstances applicable to RGB-10 as well. 
While there are no concerns from a quality perspective, this issue is more complex from a non-clinical 
perspective. Although no neutralising antibodies were detectable in an immunogenicity study on rats, the 
incidence of antibody positive samples (95 screening positives with 34 confirmed positives in total) was 
higher for RGB-10 at all dose levels in comparison to Forsteo. Furthermore, Forsteo showed increasing 
antibody-titers with increasing dose while RGB-10 showed higher titers at the low dose group in comparison 
to its mid dose group.  
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 39/47 
 
 
 
 
  
  
While the overall incidence of antibody formation is quite low and the translatability of non-clinical 
immunogenicity data to humans is limited, an increased immunogenic capacity for RGB-10 cannot be entirely 
excluded. 
The general immunogenic potential of teriparatide is considered low (small molecule, no glycosylation no 
posttranslational modifications, only 2,8% of antibody formation was registered after 12 month of treatment 
with Forsteo, target population of elder or glucocorticoid-treated patients might have a less reactive immune 
system). Nevertheless the lack of clinical characterisation of the immunogenicity of RGB 10 still presents a 
gap in the biosimilar exercise which needs to be addressed in an appropriate way, especially as some 
differences between RGB-10 and Forsteo could be seen in the PK endpoints, no clinical efficacy/safety (+ 
immunogenicity) study was conducted or is planned and the non-clinical study does not help to dispel 
remaining concerns. 
With respect to this issue, the Applicant proposed to provide the immunogenicity data of a Japanese 
efficacy/safety study RGB1023031 comparing RGB-10 with Forteo (teriparatide; Japan). This study is ongoing 
and is carried out by the Japanese partner of the Applicant. The Applicant has submitted a study protocol 
(RGB1023O31) version 1.1 (04/03/2016) for this phase 3 clinical study: A comparative study to evaluate the 
similarity of RGB-10 to Forteo in patients with osteoporosis at high risk of fracture.  
It is a multi-centre, randomized, active-controlled, parallel group comparative efficacy and safety study, 
conducted in Japan. The study population consists of patients with primary osteoporosis at high risk of 
fracture. Subjects will be randomised 1:1 to RGB-10 or Forteo, 20 µg daily subcutaneously for 52 weeks. 
Anti-teriparatide antibody testing will be conducted. If anti-teriparatide antibody is positive, neutralising 
activity will be determined. 
The design of this study is adequate to provide meaningful comparative efficacy and safety data, including 
immunogenicity data. Inclusion in the RMP was considered appropriate. The applicant’s estimated timelines 
are acceptable. 
The proposal of submitting supportive immunogenicity data from a large phase III study to provide additional 
data on immunogenicity was deemed acceptable. 
2.5.2.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
Based on the limited amount of safety data available and the cross-over design of the PK-study the 
confirmatory assessment of similarity on the safety level largely relies on the demonstration of comparability 
on the physicochemical, biological and non-clinical level, which supports biosimilarity between the two  
products. 
A plan for post-marketing evaluation of immunogenicity was laid out by the Applicant. Immunogenicity data 
from an ongoing Japanese efficacy/safety study comparing RGB-10 and Forteo (teriparatide; Japan) will be 
provided after its completion. A detailed study protocol was provided with the responses to the D180 LoOI. 
Taken together it is agreed that the safety profile of Forsteo and RGB-10 can be considered comparable, and 
is therefore acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 40/47 
 
 
  
  
2.6.  Risk Management Plan 
Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Hypercalcaemia 
Orthostatic hypotension 
Important potential risks 
Osteosarcoma (potential risk from non-clinical 
Missing information 
Immunogenicity 
finding) 
Non-uraemic calciphylaxis 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Study/activity Type, 
Objectives 
Safety concerns addressed 
Status 
Date for 
title and category 
(1-3) 
(planned, 
submission of 
started)  
interim or 
final reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
RGB-10 Phase III 
Providing 
Missing Information of 
Started in  
Planned: 
2018/2019 
Clinical study 
immunogenicity data 
Immunogenicity 
Q1 2016 
RGB1023O31:  
A comparative study 
to evaluate the 
similarity of RGB-10 
to Forteo® in 
patients with 
osteoporosis at high 
risk of fracture 
during treatment with 
Movymia/Terrosa 
Furthermore 
assessing the clinical 
relevance (efficacy or 
safety consequences) 
of anti-teriparatide 
antibody formation. 
Category 3. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Important Identified Risks 
Hypercalcaemia 
Appropriate labelling: 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 41/47 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Text in SmPC: 
Contraindication concerning pre-
existing hypercalcaemia in 
Section 4.3. 
Warning in Section 4.5 
concerning a potential interaction 
with digitalis. It is highlighted that 
teriparatide should be used with 
caution in patients taking digitalis. 
Hypercalcaemia greater than 
2.76 mmol/L is listed as an 
uncommon adverse reaction and 
Hypercalcaemia greater than 3.25 
mmol/L is listed as a rare adverse 
reaction in Section 4.8. 
Section 4.9 includes delayed 
hypercalcaemia as an expected 
effect of overdose. 
Prescription-only medicine 
Orthostatic hypotension 
Appropriate labelling: 
None 
Text in SmPC: 
Warnings and precautionary 
measures are included in Section 
4.4 concerning orthostatic 
hypotension. 
Warning in Section 4.7 
concerning transient, orthostatic 
hypotension or dizziness. It is 
highlighted that patients should 
refrain from driving or the use of 
machines until symptoms have 
subsided. 
It is stated in Section 4.9 of the 
SmPC that effects of overdose 
might include the risk of 
orthostatic hypotension. 
Prescription-only medicine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 42/47 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Important Potential Risk 
Osteosarcoma (potential risk from 
Appropriate labelling: 
None 
non-clinical finding) 
Text in SmPC: 
The treatment duration is limited 
to 24 months in Section 4.2 and 
Section 4.4. 
Use is contraindicated in patients 
with Paget’s disease of the bone, 
skeletal malignancy or prior 
radiation of the skeleton (Section 
4.3). 
Information concerning pre-clinical 
findings is included in Section 
5.3. 
Prescription-only medicine. 
Non-uraemic calciphylaxis 
Prescription-only medicine 
None 
Movymia/Terrosa is a medicinal 
product subject to special medical 
prescription legal status. It is used 
under continuous monitoring by a 
specialist after specialist/hospital 
diagnosis. 
Missing Information 
Immunogenicity 
Appropriate labelling: 
None 
Text in SmPC: 
It is stated in Section 4.8 that in 
a large clinical trial, antibodies 
that cross-reacted with 
teriparatide were detected in 2.8% 
of women receiving Forsteo®. It is 
also emphasised that there was no 
evidence of hypersensitivity 
reactions, allergic reactions, 
effects on serum calcium, or 
effects on Bone Mineral Density 
response in connection with 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 43/47 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
Forsteo®. 
Prescription-only medicine. 
measures 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.8.2.  Quick Response (QR) code 
A request to include a QR code in the labelling and package leaflet for the purpose of providing direct online 
access to the PIL has been submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable. 
The following elements have been agreed to be provided through a QR code: Package leaflet. 
2.8.3.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Terrosa (teriparatide) is included in the additional 
monitoring list as a new biological product.  
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 44/47 
 
 
 
  
  
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
3.1.  Favourable effects 
The drug substance and drug product control strategies were provided during the procedure to a sufficient 
extent. The provided data indicate that the manufacturing process is capable of delivering a product of 
consistently high quality, for which similarity to the reference product could be demonstrated. 
The comparability programme itself is not very extensive, but acceptable in light of the simple molecular 
structure of RGB-10 (34 amino acids without disulfide bonds) and its expression in E.coli (no glycosylation, 
no posttranslational modifications). 
Results of receptor binding and cell-based functional assays suggestive of comparable performance are 
shown, and comparative non-clinical PD studies as well as toxicological studies were also conducted, although 
the latter are not considered having sufficient discriminatory power to identify clinically relevant differences. 
The only clinical data to support biosimilarity are from a comparative PK study; no clinical PD or efficacy data 
are submitted. This simplified approach was accepted by CHMP and the comparative PK study was conducted 
in accordance with CHMP advice; data from this study is considered pivotal for this application. 
3.2.  Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects 
The main concern arising from the development program of RGB-10 was the observed difference in PK 
parameters: the point estimates of the GMRs of AUC and Cmax showed ~8% lower values for RGB-01 
compared with Forsteo, while the 94.12% CIs for the ratios of AUC and Cmax are contained within the 
acceptance range of 80-125%. This was seen as indicating a slight PK underexposure of RGB-10 compared 
with Forsteo and the applicant was asked to perform a thorough root cause analysis for these PK differences. 
The company approached the problem from different angles and provided a comprehensive discussion. 
Referring to quality, comparison of active substance content and dose accuracy tests excluded a difference in 
administered dose. State of the art tests revealed structural similarity of the active ingredient. Identical 
composition excludes absorption differences, and subtle differences in the impurity profile, anyhow resulting 
in the same degradation kinetics, were not seen as possible reasons for the observed PK differences. 
Regarding the PK results the applicant argued that an overestimation of the sample size for the first stage of 
the study (due to smaller than expected intra-subject CV%) may have contributed to making the small 
differences in Cmax and AUC detectable (reaching statistical significance). This argument was basically 
accepted (though it is not per se a justification for the existence of a difference). Further, a slight 
underestimation of Cmax of RGB-10 seems likely based on differences in accuracy of PK parameter estimates 
since t max was observed  at the first sampling time point more often for RGB-10 than for Forsteo (17 vs 10 
cases). 
The potential clinical impact of the observed PK differences was also discussed, even if considered only of 
secondary importance in a biosimilar development. Judging from available literature for Forsteo, the impact 
of the observed difference on clinical outcomes is likely to be negligible: For Forsteo it has been shown that 
considerable differences in Cmax (around 3 to 5 times higher than the difference between Cmax of RGB-10 and 
Forsteo in the PK study) can occur with the single fixed dose (20 µg) in low body weight subjects and also 
between the different application sites (abdominal wall or thigh), without consequences for clinical outcomes. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 45/47 
  
  
No PD and/or efficacy data were submitted and this was initially questioned in view of the PK results. 
However, teriparatide is known to cause transient increases in calcium after each dose, and in the 
comparative PK study serum calcium had been measured at several time-points as a safety endpoint. Upon 
CHMP request the applicant compared the serum calcium concentration-time curves for RGB-10 and Forsteo: 
Calcium profiles over time appear comparable, providing some support for the clinical similarity of RGB-10 
and Forsteo. An initial decrease in corrected serum calcium observed in both groups was explained as 
presumably due to PTH induced increase in calcium permeability of cell membranes leading to calcium influx 
and consequent reduction in serum levels; this is also in line with provided literature data. Moreover, when 
considering the need for clinical data, it was taken into account that teriparatide is a relatively simple peptide 
molecule and RGB-10 is produced in the same cell line as the reference product, without glycosylation or any 
post-translational changes. 
Taken together the applicant provided sufficient evidence in favour of biosimilarity between RGB-10 and 
Forsteo. 
3.3.  Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects 
No immunogenicity testing was incorporated in the PK study nor would this have been considered 
meaningful. 
Although no neutralising antibodies were detectable in an immunogenicity study in rats, the incidence of 
antibody positive samples was higher for RGB-10 in comparison to Forsteo. However, the overall incidence of 
antibody formation was quite low and the translatability of non-clinical immunogenicity data to humans is 
limited, and the general immunogenic potential of teriparatide is considered low. The structural simplicity of 
teriparatide and the widely demonstrated biosimilarity on the analytical level provide reassurance that the 
remaining risk of relevant differences in clinical immunogenicity is sufficiently small to be characterised post 
marketing. A plan outlining how immunogenicity could be characterised was provided by the applicant and is 
part of the risk management plan. The company will inform post marketing on the immunogenicity outcome 
of an ongoing Japanese efficacy/safety study comparing RGB-10 and Forsteo. 
3.4.  Balance of benefits and risks 
For a biosimilar, the benefit-risk balance is derived from the reference product, provided the totality of 
evidence collected from the physicochemical and biological characterisation and the non-clinical and clinical 
data package supports the comparability of the two products, which CHMP considered to be the case. 
3.5.  Conclusions 
The overall Benefit/Risk balance of Terrosa 20 µg/80 µL solution for injection is positive.  
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
risk-benefit balance of Terrosa is favourable in the following indication: 
Terrosa is indicated in adults. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 46/47 
  
  
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture.In 
postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures but 
not hip fractures has been demonstrated. 
Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and men at 
increased risk for fracture. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
Assessment report  
EMA/84371/2017 
Page 47/47 
 
  
  
