MK-0431 
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 10.1 
PAGE 1 
SITAGLIPTIN PHOSPHATE 
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT 
I. 
Summary of the Risk Management Plan for Tesavel  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tesavel. The RMP details important 
risks of Tesavel, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Tesavel's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Tesavel’s summary of product characteristics  (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Tesavel should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Tesavel should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).   
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Tesavel's 
RMP. 
I.A 
The Medicine and What It Is Used For 
Tesavel is authorised for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, Tesavel is indicated to improve 
glycemic control: 
as monotherapy 
• 
in  patients  inadequately  controlled  by  diet  and  exercise  alone  and  for  whom 
metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
as dual oral therapy in combination with 
•  metformin when diet and exercise plus metformin alone do not provide adequate 
glycemic control. 
•  a sulfonylurea when diet and exercise plus maximal tolerated dose of a sulfonylurea 
alone do not provide adequate glycemic control and when metformin is inappropriate 
due to contraindications or intolerance. 
•  a 
peroxisome 
agonist 
(thiazolidinedione) when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and when diet and 
exercise plus the PPARγ agonist alone do not provide adequate glycemic control. 
proliferator-activated 
gamma  PPARγ 
receptor 
as triple oral therapy in combination with 
•  a sulfonylurea and metformin when diet and exercise plus dual therapy with these agents 
do not provide adequate glycemic control. 
•  a PPARγ agonist and metformin when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and when diet 
and exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do not provide adequate glycemic control. 
 
MK-0431 
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 10.1 
PAGE 2 
SITAGLIPTIN PHOSPHATE 
Tesavel  is  also  indicated  as  add-on  to  insulin  (with  or  without  metformin)  when  diet  and 
exercise plus stable dosage of insulin do not provide adequate glycemic control. 
Refer to SmPC for the full indication. 
It contains sitagliptin as the active substance and it is given orally.  
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Tesavel’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Tesavel’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage:  
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000910/h
uman_med_001087.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
I.B 
Risks Associated with The Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise The Risks  
Important risks of Tesavel, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Tesavel's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Tesavel is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below.  
I.B.1 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of  Tesavel  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Tesavel. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
 
MK-0431 
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 10.1 
PAGE 3 
SITAGLIPTIN PHOSPHATE 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).  
Table I.B.1.1: 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None  
Pancreatic cancer  
Exposure during pregnancy and lactation 
Tesavel  has  been  marketed  for  12  years  since  2006  with  over  55  million  patient-years  of 
treatment. The safety profile has been well-characterized during that time and adverse reactions 
that have been reported from clinical trials, non-interventional studies and post-approval safety 
surveillance analysis are included in the SmPC.  There are no studies planned or warranted to 
further characterize any identified or potential risk that would alter the established risk-benefit 
profile  for  Tesavel.  There  are  also  no  additional  risk  minimization  activities  planned  or 
warranted beyond communication of the safety profile in the SmPC and the Patient Leaflet. 
There  are  no  important  safety  concerns  (important  identified  or  potential  risks)  for  which 
additional pharmacovigilance activities is to be planned.   
In  conclusion,  continued  spontaneous  safety  surveillance  will  be  sufficient  to  monitor  the 
safety profile and labeling will provide sufficient routine risk minimization. 
 
 
 
 
MK-0431 
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 10.1 
PAGE 4 
SITAGLIPTIN PHOSPHATE 
I.B.2 
Summary of Important Risks 
Table I.B.2.1: 
Important Potential Risk: Pancreatic Cancer 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
In clinical studies (2011 Sitagliptin in Combination with Metformin Pooled 
medicine 
Safety Population; P082) there were no significant differences between 
treatment groups in the incidence of pancreatic malignancies, however, the 
clinical trials were not specifically designed to fully investigate pancreatic 
cancer as a safety concern.   
Risk factors and risk groups 
The risk of pancreatic cancer was significant for type 2 diabetes patients 
(adjusted HR 1.80 [95% Cl: 1.52, 2.14]), thus 80% increase in the risk of 
pancreatic cancer. In addition, the risk was significant among patients with 
increasing age, history of chronic pancreatitis and tobacco use. Patients with 
chronic pancreatitis and T2DM with the adjusted HR was 12.12 [95% Cl: 6.02, 
24.40], they were 12 times more likely to develop pancreatic cancer. The effect 
of T2DM and chronic pancreatitis on pancreatic cancer risk was at least 
additive after adjusting for known risk factors. Incidence was highest in patients 
with more than 5 year duration of type 2 diabetes. 
Risk minimisation measures 
None  
Table I.B.2.2: 
Missing Information: Exposure during pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy, and lactation  
I.B.3 
Post-Authorization Development Plan 
I.B.3.1 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Tesavel.  
I.B.3.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Tesavel.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
