EMA/525449/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000910 
EPAR summary for the public 
Tesavel 
sitagliptin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Tesavel. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Tesavel. 
What is Tesavel? 
Tesavel is a medicine that contains the active substance sitagliptin. It is available as tablets (25, 50 
and 100 mg). 
What is Tesavel used for? 
Tesavel is used in patients with type 2 diabetes to improve the control of blood glucose (sugar) levels. 
It is used in addition to diet and exercise in the following ways: 
 
on its own, in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on diet and exercise and in whom 
metformin (an antidiabetes medicine) is not suitable; 
 
in combination with metformin or a PPAR-gamma agonist (a type of antidiabetes medicine) such as 
a thiazolidinedione, in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin or the 
PPAR-gamma agonist used on its own; 
 
in combination with a sulphonylurea (another type of antidiabetes medicine) in patients who are 
not satisfactorily controlled with a sulphonylurea used on its own and in whom metformin is not 
suitable; 
 
in combination with both metformin and a sulphonylurea or a PPAR-gamma agonist, in patients 
who are not satisfactorily controlled on the two medicines; 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in combination with insulin, with or without metformin, in patients who are not satisfactorily 
controlled on a stable dose of insulin. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Tesavel used? 
Tesavel is taken at a dose of 100 mg once a day. If Tesavel is taken with a sulphonylurea or insulin, 
the dose of the sulphonylurea or insulin may need to be lowered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia 
(low blood sugar levels). 
In patients with moderately or severely reduced kidney function the dose of Tesavel should be 
reduced. 
How does Tesavel work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substance in 
Tesavel, sitagliptin, is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown 
of ‘incretin’ hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate the 
pancreas to produce insulin. By increasing levels of incretin hormones in the blood, sitagliptin 
stimulates the pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Sitagliptin does 
not work when the blood glucose is low. Sitagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by the 
liver, by increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. Together, these 
processes reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Tesavel been studied? 
Tesavel was studied in nine studies involving almost 6,000 patients with type 2 diabetes whose blood 
glucose levels were not adequately controlled: 
 
four of the studies compared Tesavel with placebo (a dummy treatment). Tesavel or placebo were 
used on their own in two studies involving 1,262 patients, as an add-on to metformin in one study 
involving 701 patients, and as an add-on to pioglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) in one study 
involving 353 patients; 
 
two studies compared Tesavel with other antidiabetes medicines. One study compared Tesavel with 
glipizide (a sulphonylurea), when they were used as an add-on to metformin in 1,172 patients. The 
other study compared Tesavel with metformin, used on their own, in 1,058 patients; 
 
three additional studies compared Tesavel with placebo when they were added to other 
antidiabetes medicines: glimepiride (another sulphonylurea), with or without metformin, in 441 
patients; the combination of metformin and rosiglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) in 278 patients; 
and a stable dose of insulin, with or without metformin, in 641 patients. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in the level of a substance in 
the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. 
What benefit has Tesavel shown during the studies? 
Tesavel was more effective than placebo when it was taken alone or in combination with other 
antidiabetes medicines. In patients taking Tesavel on its own, HbA1c levels fell from around 8.0% at 
the start of the studies by 0.48% after 18 weeks and 0.61% after 24 weeks. In contrast, they rose by 
Tesavel  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
 
0.12% and 0.18%, respectively, in the patients taking placebo. Adding Tesavel to metformin reduced 
HbA1c levels by 0.67% after 24 weeks, compared with a fall of 0.02% in the patients adding placebo. 
When added to pioglitazone, Tesavel reduced HbA1c levels by 0.85% after 24 weeks, compared with a 
fall of 0.15% in the patients adding placebo. 
In the studies comparing Tesavel with other medicines, the effectiveness of adding Tesavel to 
metformin was similar to that of adding glipizide. When taken on their own, Tesavel and metformin 
produced similar reductions in HbA1c levels, but the effectiveness of Tesavel seemed to be slightly 
lower than that of metformin. 
In the additional studies, adding Tesavel to glimepiride (with and without metformin) led to a reduction 
in HbA1c levels of 0.45% after 24 weeks, compared with an increase of 0.28% in the patients adding 
placebo. HbA1c levels were reduced by 1.03% after 18 weeks in patients adding Tesavel to metformin 
and rosiglitazone, compared with a fall of 0.31% in those adding placebo. Finally, they were reduced 
by 0.59% in patients adding Tesavel to insulin (with or without metformin), compared with a fall of 
0.03% in those adding placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Tesavel? 
Serious side effects reported with Tesavel include pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) and 
hypersensitivity (allergic reactions). Hypoglycaemia has been reported in combination with a 
sulphonylurea in 4.7-13.8% of patients and with insulin in 9.6% of patients. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Tesavel, see the package leaflet. 
Tesavel must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to sitagliptin or any of the other 
ingredients. 
Why has Tesavel been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Tesavel’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Tesavel 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Tesavel on 10 January 2008. This authorisation was based on the authorisation granted to Januvia in 
2007 (‘informed consent’).  
The full EPAR for Tesavel can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Tesavel, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2012. 
Tesavel  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
 
