ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tevimbra 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 10 mg tislelizumab. 
Each vial of 10 ml contains 100 mg tislelizumab. 
Tislelizumab is an Fc-engineered humanised immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) variant monoclonal antibody 
produced in recombinant Chinese hamster ovary cells. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each ml of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 0.069 mmol (or 1.6 mg) sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) 
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to slightly yellowish solution. 
The solution has a pH of approximately 6.5 and an osmolality of approximately 270 to 330 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) 
Tevimbra as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable, locally 
advanced or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma after prior platinum-based 
chemotherapy. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Tevimbra treatment must be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
cancer. 
Posology 
The recommended dose of Tevimbra is 200 mg administered by intravenous infusion once every 
3 weeks. 
Duration of treatment 
Patients should be treated with Tevimbra until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose delay or discontinuation (see also section 4.4) 
No dose reductions of Tevimbra as monotherapy are recommended. Tevimbra should be withheld or 
discontinued as described in Table 1. 
Detailed guidelines for the management of immune-related adverse reactions are described in 
section 4.4. 
Table 1 
Recommended treatment modifications for Tevimbra 
Severity1 
Tevimbra treatment modification 
Immune-related adverse 
reaction 
Pneumonitis 
Hepatitis 
Rash 
Severe cutaneous adverse 
reactions (SCARs) 
Colitis 
Myositis/rhabdomyolysis 
Grade 2 
Recurrent grade 2; grade 3 or 4 
ALT or AST >3 to 8 x ULN or 
total bilirubin >1.5 to 3 x ULN 
ALT or AST >8 x ULN or total 
bilirubin >3 x ULN 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Suspected SCARs, including SJS 
or TEN 
Confirmed SCARs, including SJS 
or TEN 
Grade 2 or 3 
Recurrent grade 3; grade 4 
Grade 2 or 3 
Recurrent grade 3; grade 4 
Hypothyroidism 
Grade 2, 3 or 4 
Hyperthyroidism 
Grade 3 or 4 
Adrenal insufficiency 
Hypophysitis 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 or 4 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 or 4 
3 
Withhold2,3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Withhold2,3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Withhold2,3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Withhold2,3 
For suspected SJS or TEN, do not 
resume unless SJS/TEN has been 
ruled out in consultation with 
appropriate specialist(s). 
Permanently discontinue 
Withold2,3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Withhold2,3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Hypothyroidism may be managed 
with replacement therapy without 
treatment interruption. 
Withhold2 
For grade 3 or 4 that has improved 
to grade ≤2 and is controlled with 
anti-thyroid therapy, if indicated 
continuation of Tevimbra may be 
considered after corticosteroid 
taper. Otherwise, treatment should 
be discontinued. 
Consider withholding treatment 
until controlled by HRT. 
Withhold3 
For grade 3 or 4 that has improved 
to grade ≤2 and is controlled with 
HRT, if indicated continuation of 
Tevimbra may be considered after 
corticosteroid taper. Otherwise, 
treatment should be discontinued.3 
Consider withholding treatment 
until controlled by HRT. 
Withhold2,3 
For grade 3 or 4 that has improved 
to grade ≤2 and is controlled with 
HRT, if indicated continuation of 
Tevimbra may be considered after 
corticosteroid taper. Otherwise, 
treatment should be discontinued.3 
 
 
 
 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
Nephritis with renal dysfunction 
Myocarditis 
Neurological toxicities 
Pancreatitis 
Other immune-related adverse 
reactions 
Other adverse drug reactions 
Infusion-related reactions 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
associated with grade ≥3 
hyperglycaemia 
(glucose >250 mg/dl 
or >13.9 mmol/l) or associated 
with ketoacidosis 
Grade 2 (creatinine >1.5 to 3 x 
baseline or >1.5 to 3 x ULN) 
Grade 3 (creatinine >3 x baseline 
or >3 to 6 x ULN) or grade 4 
(creatinine >6 x ULN) 
Grade 2, 3 or 4 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 or 4 
Grade 3 pancreatitis or grade 3 or 
4 serum amylase or lipase levels 
increased (>2 x ULN) 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Recurrent grade 3; grade 4 
Grade 1 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 or 4 
Withhold 
For grade 3 or 4 that has improved 
to grade ≤2 with insulin therapy, if 
indicated continuation of Tevimbra 
may be considered once metabolic 
control is achieved. Otherwise, 
treatment should be discontinued. 
Withhold2,3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Withhold2,3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Withhold2,3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Withhold2,3 
Permanently discontinue3 
Consider pre-medication for 
prophylaxis of subsequent infusion 
reactions. 
Slow the rate of infusion by 50%. 
Interrupt infusion. 
Resume infusion if resolved or 
decreased to grade 1, and slow rate 
of infusion by 50%. 
Permanently discontinue 
ALT = alanine aminotransferase, AST = aspartate aminotransferase, HRT= hormone replacement therapy, SJS 
= Stevens-Johnson syndrome, TEN = toxic epidermal necrolysis, ULN = upper limit normal 
1  Toxicity grades are in accordance with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for 
Adverse Events Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE v4.0). Hypophysitis grade is in accordance with NCI-CTCAE 
v5.0. 
2  Resume in patients with complete or partial resolution (grade 0 to 1) after corticosteroid taper over at least 
1 month. Permanently discontinue if no complete or partial resolution within 12 weeks of initiating 
corticosteroids or inability to reduce prednisone to ≤10 mg/day (or equivalent) within 12 weeks of initiating 
corticosteroids. 
Initial dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone or equivalent followed by a taper to ≤10 mg/day (or equivalent) 
over at least 1 month is recommended, except for pneumonitis, where initial dose of 2 to 4 mg/kg/day is 
recommended. 
3 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Tevimbra in patients aged below 18 years have not been established. No 
data are available. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is needed for patients aged ≥65 years (see section 4.8). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Data from patients 
with severe renal impairment are too limited to make dosing recommendations for this population (see 
section 5.2). 
4 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. Data from 
patients with severe hepatic impairment are too limited to make dosing recommendations for this 
population (see section 5.2). 
Method of administration 
Tevimbra is for intravenous use only. It is to be administered as an infusion and must not be 
administered as an intravenous push or single bolus injection. For instructions on dilution of the 
medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
The first infusion should be administered over a period of 60 minutes. If this is well tolerated, the 
subsequent infusions may be administered over a period of 30 minutes. The infusion should be given 
via an intravenous line containing a sterile, non-pyrogenic, low-protein-binding 0.2 or 0.22 micron in-
line or add-on filter. 
Other medicinal products must not be mixed or co-administered through the same infusion line. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Patient Card 
Patients treated with Tevimbra must be given the Patient Card to be informed about the risks of 
immune-related adverse reactions during Tevimbra therapy (see also Package Leaflet). 
The prescriber must discuss the risks of immune-related adverse reactions during Tevimbra therapy 
with the patient. 
Immune-related adverse reactions 
Immune-related adverse reactions have been reported, including fatal cases, during treatment with 
tislelizumab (see section 4.8). The majority of these events improved with interruption of tislelizumab, 
administration of corticosteroids and/or supportive care. Immune-related adverse reactions have also 
been reported after the last dose of tislelizumab. Immune-related adverse reactions affecting more than 
one body system can occur simultaneously. 
For suspected immune-related adverse reactions, adequate evaluation to confirm aetiology or exclude 
alternative aetiologies, including infection, should be ensured. Based on the severity of the adverse 
reaction, tislelizumab should be withheld and corticosteroids administered (see section 4.2). Based on 
limited data from clinical studies, administration of other systemic immunosuppressants can be 
considered in patients whose immune-related adverse reactions are not controlled with corticosteroid 
use (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). Upon improvement to grade ≤1, corticosteroid taper should be initiated 
and continued over at least 1 month. 
Immune-related pneumonitis 
Immune-related pneumonitis, including fatal cases, has been reported in patients receiving 
tislelizumab. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of pneumonitis. Patients with 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
suspected pneumonitis should be evaluated with radiographic imaging and infectious or disease-
related aetiologies should be ruled out. 
Patients with immune-related pneumonitis should be managed according to the treatment 
modifications as recommended in Table 1 (see section 4.2). 
Immune-related hepatitis 
Immune-related hepatitis, including fatal cases, has been reported in patients treated with tislelizumab. 
Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hepatitis and changes in liver function. Liver 
function tests should be performed at baseline and periodically during treatment. 
Patients with immune-related hepatitis should be managed according to the treatment modifications as 
recommended in Table 1 (see section 4.2). 
Immune-related skin reactions 
Immune-related skin rash or dermatitis have been reported in patients receiving tislelizumab. Patients 
should be monitored for suspected skin reactions and other causes should be excluded. Based on the 
severity of the skin adverse reactions, tislelizumab should be withheld or permanently discontinued as 
recommended in Table 1 (see section 4.2). 
Cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) have been reported in patients receiving 
tislelizumab. Patients should be monitored for signs or symptoms of SCARs (e.g. a prodrome of fever, 
flu-like symptoms, mucosal lesions or progressive skin rash) and other causes should be excluded. For 
suspected SCARs (including severe erythema multiforme [EM], SJS or TEN), tislelizumab should be 
withheld and the patient should be referred to specialised care for assessment and treatment. If 
SCARs, including SJS or TEN, is confirmed, tislelizumab should be permanently discontinued (see 
section 4.2). 
Immune-related colitis 
Immune-related colitis, frequently associated with diarrhoea, has been reported in patients treated with 
tislelizumab. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of colitis. Infectious and disease-
related aetiologies should be ruled out. 
Patients with immune-related colitis should be managed according to the treatment modifications as 
recommended in Table 1 (see section 4.2). 
Immune-related endocrinopathies 
Immune-related endocrinopathies, including thyroid disorders, adrenal insufficiency, hypophysitis and 
type 1 diabetes mellitus, have been reported in patients treated with tislelizumab. These may require 
supportive treatment depending on the specific endocrine disorder. Long-term hormone replacement 
therapy (HRT) may be necessary in cases of immune-related endocrinopathies. 
Patients with immune-related endocrinopathies should be managed according to the treatment 
modifications as recommended in Table 1 (see section 4.2). 
Thyroid disorders 
Thyroid disorders, including thyroiditis, hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism, have been reported in 
patients treated with tislelizumab. Patients should be monitored (at the start of treatment, periodically 
during treatment and as indicated based on clinical evaluation) for changes in thyroid function and 
clinical signs and symptoms of thyroid disorders. Hypothyroidism may be managed with HRT without 
treatment interruption and without corticosteroids. Hyperthyroidism may be managed symptomatically 
(see section 4.2). 
Adrenal insufficiency 
Adrenal insufficiency has been reported in patients treated with tislelizumab. Patients should be 
monitored for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. Monitoring of adrenal function and 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hormone levels should be considered. Corticosteroids and HRT should be administered as clinically 
indicated (see section 4.2). 
Hypophysitis 
Hypophysitis has been reported in patients treated with tislelizumab. Patients should be monitored for 
signs and symptoms of hypophysitis/hypopituitarism. Monitoring of pituitary function and hormone 
levels should be considered. Corticosteroids and HRT should be administered as clinically indicated 
(see section 4.2). 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus, including diabetic ketoacidosis, has been reported in patients treated with 
tislelizumab. Patients should be monitored for hyperglycaemia and other signs and symptoms of 
diabetes. Insulin should be administered for type 1 diabetes. In patients with severe hyperglycaemia or 
ketoacidosis (grade ≥3), tislelizumab should be withheld and anti-hyperglycaemic treatment should be 
administered (see section 4.2). Treatment with tislelizumab may be resumed when metabolic control is 
achieved. 
Immune-related nephritis with renal dysfunction 
Immune-related nephritis with renal dysfunction has been reported in patients treated with 
tislelizumab. Patients should be monitored for changes in renal function (elevated serum creatinine), 
and other causes of renal dysfunction should be excluded. 
Patients with immune-related nephritis with renal dysfunction should be managed according to the 
treatment modifications as recommended in Table 1 (see section 4.2). 
Other immune-related adverse reactions 
Other clinically important immune-related adverse reactions were reported with tislelizumab: 
myositis, myocarditis, arthritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, pericarditis and Guillain-Barré syndrome 
(see section 4.8). 
Patients with other immune-related adverse reactions should be managed according to the treatment 
modifications as recommended in Table 1 (see section 4.2). 
Solid organ transplant rejection 
Solid organ transplant rejection has been reported in the post-marketing setting in patients treated with 
PD-1 inhibitors. Treatment with tislelizumab may increase the risk of rejection in solid organ 
transplant recipients. The benefit of treatment with tislelizumab versus the risk of possible organ 
rejection should be considered in these patients. 
Infusion-related reactions 
Severe infusion-related reactions (grade 3 or higher) have been reported in patients receiving 
tislelizumab as a single agent (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms 
of infusion-related reactions. 
Infusion-related reactions should be managed as recommended in Table 1 (see section 4.2). 
Patients excluded from clinical studies 
Patients with any of the following conditions were excluded from clinical studies: baseline ECOG 
performance score greater than or equal to 2; active brain or leptomeningeal metastases; active 
autoimmune disease or history of autoimmune disease that may relapse; any condition requiring 
systemic treatment with either corticosteroids (>10 mg/day prednisone or equivalent) or other 
immunosuppressants within the 14 days prior to study treatment; active or untreated HIV; untreated 
hepatitis B or hepatitis C carriers; history of interstitial lung disease; administration of live vaccine 
within the 14 days prior to study treatment; infection requiring systemic therapy within the 14 days 
prior to study treatment; history of severe hypersensitivity to another monoclonal antibody. In the 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
absence of data, tislelizumab should be used with caution in these populations after careful 
consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Patients on controlled sodium diet 
Each ml of this medicinal product contains 0.069 mmol (or 1.6 mg) sodium. This medicinal product 
contains 16 mg sodium per 10 ml vial, equivalent to 0.8% of the WHO recommended maximum daily 
intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Tislelizumab is a humanised monoclonal antibody, cleared from the circulation through catabolism. 
As such, formal pharmacokinetic interaction studies have not been conducted. As monoclonal 
antibodies are not metabolised by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes or other drug-metabolising 
enzymes, inhibition or induction of these enzymes by co-administered medicinal products is not 
anticipated to affect the pharmacokinetics of tislelizumab. 
The use of systemic corticosteroids and other immunosuppressants at baseline, before starting 
tislelizumab, except for physiological doses of systemic corticosteroid (10 mg/day prednisone or 
equivalent), should be avoided because of their potential interference with the pharmacodynamic 
activity and efficacy. However, systemic corticosteroids and other immunosuppressants can be used 
after starting tislelizumab to treat immune-related adverse reactions (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception 
Tislelizumab should not be used in women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception 
unless the clinical condition of the woman requires treatment with tislelizumab. Women of 
childbearing potential should use effective contraception (methods that result in less than 1% 
pregnancy rates) during treatment and for at least 4 months following the last dose of tislelizumab. 
Pregnancy 
There are no available data on the use of tislelizumab in pregnant women. Based on its mechanism of 
action, tislelizumab can cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. 
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with tislelizumab. However, in murine models 
of pregnancy, blockade of PD-1/PD-L1 signalling has been shown to disrupt tolerance to the foetus 
and to result in increased foetal loss. 
Human IgG4 (immunoglobulins) are known to cross the placental barrier. Therefore, tislelizumab, 
being an IgG4 variant, has the potential to be transmitted from the mother to the developing foetus. 
Women should be advised of the potential risk to a foetus. 
Tislelizumab should not be used during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of the woman requires 
treatment with tislelizumab. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether tislelizumab is excreted in human milk. Its effects on breast-fed 
newborns/infants and on milk production are also unknown. 
Because of the potential for serious adverse drug reactions in breast-fed newborns/infants from 
Tevimbra, women should be advised not to breast-feed during treatment and for at least 4 months after 
the last dose of Tevimbra. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
No clinical data are available on the possible effects of tislelizumab on fertility. No reproductive and 
development toxicity studies have been conducted with tislelizumab. Based on a 3-month repeat-dose 
toxicity study, there were no notable effects in the male and female reproductive organs in 
cynomolgus monkeys when tislelizumab was given at doses of 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg every 2 weeks for 
13 weeks (7 dose administrations) (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tevimbra has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. In some patients, fatigue has 
been reported following administration of tislelizumab (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of tislelizumab as monotherapy is based on pooled data in 1 534 patients across multiple 
tumour types who received 200 mg tislelizumab every 3 weeks. The most common adverse reaction 
was anaemia (29.2%). The most common grade 3/4 adverse reactions were anaemia (5.0%) and 
pneumonia (4.2%). 1.17% of patients experienced adverse reactions leading to death. The adverse 
reactions leading to death were pneumonia (0.78%), hepatitis (0.13%), pneumonitis (0.07%), 
dyspnoea (0.07%), decreased appetite (0.07%) and thrombocytopenia (0.07%). Among the 
1 534 patients, 40.1% were exposed to tislelizumab for longer than 6 months, and 22.2% were exposed 
for longer than 12 months. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in the pooled dataset for patients treated with Tevimbra monotherapy 
(n = 1 534) are presented in Table 2. Adverse reactions are listed according to system organ class in 
MedDRA. Within each system organ class, the adverse reactions are presented in decreasing 
frequency. The corresponding frequency category for each adverse reaction is defined as: very 
common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to 
<1/1 000); very rare (<1/10 000); not known (cannot be estimated from available data). Within each 
frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 2 
Adverse reactions with Tevimbra as monotherapy (N = 1 534) 
Adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Pneumonia1 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia2 
Thrombocytopenia3 
Neutropenia4 
Lymphopenia5 
Endocrine disorders 
Hypothyroidism6 
Hyperthyroidism7 
Thyroiditis8 
Adrenal insufficiency9 
Hypophysitis10 
Frequency category 
(All grades) 
Common* 
Very common 
Common* 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Hyperglycaemia11 
Hyponatraemia12 
Hypokalaemia13 
Diabetes mellitus14 
Nervous system disorders 
Guillain-Barré syndrome 
Eye disorders 
Uveitis15 
Cardiac disorders 
Myocarditis16 
Pericarditis 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension17 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Cough 
Dyspnoea 
Pneumonitis18 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea19 
Stomatitis20 
Pancreatitis21 
Colitis22 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Hepatitis23 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash24 
Pruritus 
Severe skin reactions25 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Arthralgia 
Myalgia 
Myositis26 
Arthritis27 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Nephritis28 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Fatigue29 
Decreased appetite 
Investigations 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased 
Alanine aminotransferase increased 
Blood bilirubin increased30 
Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 
Blood creatinine increased 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Infusion-related reaction31 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon** 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Very common 
Common* 
Common* 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common* 
Very common 
Very common 
Rare 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Very common* 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
1  Pneumonia includes preferred terms (PTs) of pneumonia, lower respiratory tract infection, lower respiratory 
tract infection bacterial, pneumonia bacterial, pneumonia fungal and pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia. 
2  Anaemia includes PTs of anaemia and haemoglobin decreased. 
3  Thrombocytopenia includes PTs of thrombocytopenia and platelet count decreased. 
4  Neutropenia includes PTs of neutropenia and neutrophil count decreased. 
5  Lymphopenia includes PTs of lymphopenia, lymphocyte count decreased and lymphocyte percentage 
decreased. 
10 
6  Hypothyroidism includes PTs of hypothyroidism, thyroxine free decreased, tri-iodothyronine free decreased, 
tri-iodothyronine decreased, primary hypothyroidism and thyroxine decreased. 
7  Hyperthyroidism includes PTs of hyperthyroidism, blood thyroid stimulating hormone decreased, tri-
iodothyronine free increased, thyroxine free increased, thyroxine increased and tri-iodothyronine increased. 
8  Thyroiditis includes PTs of thyroiditis, autoimmune thyroiditis and thyroiditis subacute. 
9  Adrenal insufficiency includes PTs of adrenal insufficiency and secondary adrenocortical insufficiency. 
10  Hypophysitis includes PT of hypopituitarism. 
11  Hyperglycaemia includes PTs of hyperglycaemia and blood glucose increased. 
12  Hyponatraemia includes PTs of hyponatraemia and blood sodium decreased. 
13  Hypokalaemia includes PTs of hypokalaemia and blood potassium decreased. 
14  Diabetes mellitus includes PTs of diabetes mellitus, type 1 diabetes mellitus and latent autoimmune diabetes 
in adults. 
15  Uveitis includes PTs of uveitis and iritis. 
16  Myocarditis includes PTs of myocarditis, immune-mediated myocarditis and autoimmune myocarditis. 
17  Hypertension includes PTs of hypertension, blood pressure increased and essential hypertension. 
18  Pneumonitis includes PTs of pneumonitis, immune-mediated lung disease, interstitial lung disease and 
organising pneumonia. 
19  Diarrhoea includes PTs of diarrhoea and frequent bowel movements. 
20  Stomatitis includes PTs of stomatitis, mouth ulceration and aphthous ulcer. 
21  Pancreatitis includes PTs of amylase increased, lipase increased, pancreatitis and pancreatitis acute. 
22  Colitis includes PTs of colitis and immune-mediated enterocolitis. 
23  Hepatitis includes PTs of hepatitis, hepatic function abnormal, immune-mediated hepatitis, liver injury and 
autoimmune hepatitis. 
24  Rash includes PTs of rash, rash maculo-papular, eczema, rash erythematous, dermatitis, dermatitis allergic, 
rash papular, urticaria, erythema, skin exfoliation, drug eruption, rash macular, psoriasis, rash pustular, 
dermatitis acneiform, rash pruritic, lichenoid keratosis, hand dermatitis, immune mediated dermatitis, rash 
follicular, acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis, erythema nodosum and pemphigoid. 
25  Severe skin reaction includes PT of erythema multiforme. 
26  Myositis includes PTs of myositis and immune-mediated myositis. 
27  Arthritis includes PTs of arthritis and immune-mediated arthritis. 
28  Nephritis includes PTs of nephritis, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and immune-mediated nephritis. 
29  Fatigue includes PTs of fatigue, asthenia, malaise and lethargy. 
30  Blood bilirubin increased includes PTs of blood bilirubin increased, bilirubin conjugated increased, blood 
bilirubin unconjugated increased and hyperbilirubinaemia. 
31  Infusion-related reaction includes PTs of infusion-related reaction and infusion-related hypersensitivity 
reaction. 
*including fatal outcomes 
**frequency based on studies outside the monotherapy pool 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
The data below reflect information for significant adverse drug reactions for tislelizumab as 
monotherapy in clinical studies. 
Immune-related pneumonitis 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, immune-related pneumonitis occurred in 4.3% of 
patients, including grade 1 (0.3%), grade 2 (2.0%), grade 3 (1.5%), grade 4 (0.3%) and grade 5 (0.2%) 
events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 3.2 months (range: 1.0 day to 16.5 months), 
and the median duration from onset to resolution was 6.1 months (range: 1.0+ day to 22.8+ months). 
+ denotes a censored observation, with ongoing events at the time of the analysis. Tislelizumab was 
permanently discontinued in 1.8% of patients and tislelizumab treatment was interrupted in 1.8% of 
patients. Pneumonitis resolved in 45.5% of patients. 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, pneumonitis occurred more frequently in patients 
with a history of prior thoracic radiation (6.3%) than in patients who did not receive prior thoracic 
radiation (2.8%). 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immune-related hepatitis 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, immune-related hepatitis occurred in 1.7% of 
patients, including grade 1 (0.1%), grade 2 (0.5%), grade 3 (0.9%), grade 4 (0.1%) and grade 5 (0.1%) 
events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 31.0 days (range: 8.0 days to 13.1 months), 
and the median duration from onset to resolution was 2.0 months (range: 1.0+ day to 37.9+ months). 
+ denotes a censored observation, with ongoing events at the time of the analysis. Tislelizumab was 
permanently discontinued in 0.4% of patients and tislelizumab treatment was interrupted in 1.0% of 
patients for immune-related hepatitis. Hepatitis resolved in 50.0% of patients. 
Immune-related skin adverse reactions 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, immune-related skin adverse reactions occurred 
in 1.8% of patients, including grade 1 (0.4%), grade 2 (0.8%), grade 3 (0.3%) and grade 4 (0.3%) 
events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 2.5 months (range: 7.0 days to 
11.6 months). The median duration from onset to resolution was 11.4 months (range: 4.0 days to 
34.0+ months). + denotes a censored observation, with ongoing events at the time of the analysis. 
Tislelizumab was permanently discontinued in 0.3% of patients, and tislelizumab treatment was 
interrupted in 0.5% of patients. Skin adverse reactions resolved in 51.9% of patients. 
Immune-related colitis 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, immune-related colitis occurred in 0.7% of 
patients, including grade 2 (0.6%) and grade 3 (0.1%) events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 6.0 months (range: 12.0 days to 
14.4 months), and the median duration from onset to resolution was 28.0 days (range: 9.0 days to 
3.6 months). Tislelizumab was not permanently discontinued in any patient and tislelizumab treatment 
was interrupted in 0.6% of patients. Colitis resolved in 81.8% of patients. 
Immune-related myositis/rhabdomyolysis 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, immune-related myositis/rhabdomyolysis 
occurred in 0.9% of patients, including grade 1 (0.2%), grade 2 (0.3%), grade 3 (0.3%) and grade 4 
(0.1%) events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 1.8 months (range: 15.0 days to 
17.6 months), and the median duration from onset to resolution was 2.1 months (range: 5.0 days to 
11.2+ months). + denotes a censored observation, with ongoing events at the time of the analysis. 
Tislelizumab was permanently discontinued in 0.2% of patients and tislelizumab treatment was 
interrupted in 0.7% of patients. Myositis/rhabdomyolysis resolved in 57.1% of patients. 
Immune-related endocrinopathies 
Thyroid disorders 
Hypothyroidism: 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, hypothyroidism occurred in 7.6% of patients, 
including grade 1 (1.4%), grade 2 (6.1%) and grade 4 (0.1%) events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 3.7 months (range: 0 days to 16.6 months) 
and the median duration from onset to resolution was 15.2 months (range: 12.0 days to 28.6+ months). 
+ denotes a censored observation, with ongoing events at the time of the analysis. Tislelizumab was 
not permanently discontinued in any patient and tislelizumab treatment was interrupted in 0.4% of 
patients. Hypothyroidism resolved in 31.9% of patients. 
Hyperthyroidism: 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, hyperthyroidism occurred in 0.6% of patients, 
including grade 1 (0.1%) and grade 2 (0.3%) events. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 31.0 days (range: 19.0 days to 14.5 months). 
The median duration from onset to resolution was 1.4 months (range: 22.0 days to 4.0+ months). 
+ denotes a censored observation, with ongoing events at the time of the analysis. Tislelizumab was 
permanently discontinued in 0.1% of patients and tislelizumab treatment was not interrupted in any 
patient. Hyperthyroidism resolved in 80.0% of patients. 
Thyroiditis: 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, thyroiditis occurred in 0.8% of patients, 
including grade 1 (0.2%) and grade 2 (0.6%) events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 2.0 months (range: 20.0 days to 
20.6 months). The median duration from onset to resolution was not evaluable based on currently 
available data (range: 22.0 days to 23.1+ months). + denotes a censored observation, with ongoing 
events at the time of the analysis. Tislelizumab was not permanently discontinued in any patient and 
tislelizumab treatment was interrupted in 0.1% of patients. Thyroiditis resolved in 16.7% of patients. 
Adrenal insufficiency 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, adrenal insufficiency occurred in 0.3% of 
patients, including grade 2 (0.1%), grade 3 (0.1%) and grade 4 (0.1%) events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 3.1 months (range: 1.3 months to 
11.6 months). The median duration from onset to resolution was not evaluable based on currently 
available data (range: 1.0 month to 6.5+ months). + denotes a censored observation, with ongoing 
events at the time of the analysis. Tislelizumab was not permanently discontinued in any patient and 
tislelizumab treatment was interrupted in 0.2% of patients. Adrenal insufficiency resolved in 25.0% of 
patients. 
Hypophysitis 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, hypopituitarism (grade 2) occurred in 0.1% of 
patients. 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, type 1 diabetes mellitus occurred in 0.4% of 
patients, including grade 1 (0.1%) and grade 3 (0.3%) events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 2.5 months (range: 33.0 days to 
13.8 months). The median duration from onset to resolution was not evaluable based on currently 
available data (range: 4.0 days to 19.9+ months). + denotes a censored observation, with ongoing 
events at the time of the analysis. Tislelizumab was permanently discontinued in 0.1% of patients and 
tislelizumab treatment was interrupted in 0.1% of patients. Type 1 diabetes mellitus resolved in 16.7% 
of patients. 
Immune-related nephritis and renal dysfunction 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, immune-related nephritis and renal dysfunction 
occurred in 0.7% of patients, including grade 2 (0.3%), grade 3 (0.2%), grade 4 (0.1%) and grade 5 
(0.1%) events. 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 1.2 months (range: 3.0 days to 5.8 months). 
The median duration from onset to resolution was 1.9 months (range: 3.0+ days to 16.2+ months). 
+ denotes a censored observation, with ongoing events at the time of the analysis. Tislelizumab was 
permanently discontinued in 0.3% of patients and tislelizumab treatment was interrupted in 0.2% of 
patients. Immune-related nephritis and renal dysfunction resolved in 50.0% of patients. 
Immune-related myocarditis 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, immune-related myocarditis occurred in 0.5% of 
patients, including grade 1 (0.1%), grade 2 (0.1%), grade 3 (0.2%) and grade 4 (0.1%) events. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median time from first dose to onset of the event was 1.6 months (range: 14.0 days to 
6.1 months), and the median duration from onset to resolution was 5.1 months (range: 4.0 days to 
7.6 months). Tislelizumab was permanently discontinued in 0.3% of patients and tislelizumab 
treatment was interrupted in 0.2% of patients. Myocarditis resolved in 57.1% of patients. 
Infusion-related reactions 
In patients treated with tislelizumab as monotherapy, infusion-related reactions occurred in 3.5% of 
patients, including grade 3 (0.3%) events. Tislelizumab was permanently discontinued in 0.1% of 
patients and tislelizumab treatment was interrupted in 0.5% of patients. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
In patients treated with tislelizumab monotherapy, the proportion of patients who experienced a shift 
from baseline to a grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormality was as follows: 0.1% for increased 
haemoglobin, 4.4% for decreased haemoglobin, 0.9% for decreased leukocytes, 8.5% for decreased 
lymphocytes, 1.7% for decreased neutrophils, 1.1% for decreased platelets, 2.0% for increased alanine 
aminotransferase, 0.4% for decreased albumin, 2.3% for increased alkaline phosphatase, 3.2% for 
increased aspartate aminotransferase, 2.2% for increased bilirubin, 2.0% for increased creatine kinase, 
0.9% for increased creatinine, 0.9% for increased potassium, 2.2% for decreased potassium, 0.1% for 
increased sodium, 5.7% for decreased sodium. 
Immunogenicity 
Of 1 916 antidrug antibodies (ADA)-evaluable patients treated at the recommended dose of 200 mg 
once every 3 weeks, 18.3% of patients tested positive for treatment-emergent ADA, and neutralising 
antibodies (NAbs) were detected in 0.9% of patients. Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that 
ADA status was a statistically significant covariate on clearance; however, the presence of treatment-
emergent ADA against tislelizumab appears to have no clinically relevant impact on pharmacokinetics 
or efficacy. 
Among ADA-evaluable patients, the following rates of adverse events (AEs) have been observed for 
the ADA-positive population compared to the ADA-negative population, respectively: grade ≥3 AEs 
50.9% vs. 39.3%, serious adverse events (SAEs) 37.1% vs. 29.7%, AEs leading to treatment 
discontinuation 10.8% vs 10.2%. Patients who developed treatment-emergent ADAs tended to have 
overall poorer health and disease characteristics at baseline which can confound the interpretation of 
the safety analysis. Available data do not allow firm conclusions to be drawn on possible patterns of 
adverse drug reactions. 
Elderly 
No overall differences in safety were observed with tislelizumab monotherapy between patients aged 
<65 years and patients aged between 65 and 74 years. Data for patients aged 75 years and above are 
too limited to draw conclusions on this population. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no information on overdose with tislelizumab. In case of overdose, patients should be closely 
monitored for signs or symptoms of adverse drug reactions, and appropriate symptomatic treatment 
instituted immediately. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Monoclonal antibodies and antibody drug conjugates, ATC code: 
L01FF09 
Mechanism of action 
Tislelizumab is a humanised immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) variant monoclonal antibody against PD-1, 
binding to the extracellular domain of human PD-1. It competitively blocks the binding of both PD-L1 
and PD-L2, inhibiting PD-1-mediated negative signalling and enhancing the functional activity in T 
cells in in vitro cell-based assays. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) 
BGB-A317-302 
BGB-A317-302 was a randomised, controlled, open-label, global phase III study to compare the 
efficacy of tislelizumab versus chemotherapy in patients with unresectable, recurrent, locally advanced 
or metastatic OSCC who progressed on or after prior systemic treatment. Patients were enrolled 
regardless of their tumour PD-L1 expression level. Where available, the archival/fresh tumour tissue 
specimens taken were retrospectively tested for PD-L1 expression status. PD-L1 expression was 
evaluated at a central laboratory using the Ventana PD-L1 (SP263) assay that identified PD-L1 
staining on both tumour and tumour-associated immune cells. 
The study excluded patients with prior anti-PD-1 inhibitor treatment and tumour invasion into organs 
located adjacent to the oesophageal disease site (e.g. aorta or respiratory tract). 
Randomisation was stratified by geographic region (Asia [excluding Japan] versus Japan versus 
USA/EU), ECOG PS (0 versus 1) and investigator choice of chemotherapy (ICC) option (paclitaxel 
versus docetaxel versus irinotecan). The choice of ICC was determined by the investigator before 
randomisation. 
Patients were randomised (1:1) to receive tislelizumab 200 mg every 3 weeks or investigator’s choice 
of chemotherapy (ICC), selected from the following, all given intravenously: 
• 
paclitaxel 135 to 175 mg/m² on day 1, given every 3 weeks (also at doses of 80 to 100 mg/m2 on 
a weekly schedule according to local and/or country-specific guidelines for standard of care), or 
docetaxel 75 mg/m2 on day 1, given every 3 weeks, or 
irinotecan 125 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8, given every 3 weeks. 
• 
• 
Patients were treated with Tevimbra or one of the ICC until disease progression as assessed by the 
investigator per RECIST version 1.1 or unacceptable toxicity. 
The tumour assessments were conducted every 6 weeks for the first 6 months, and every 9 weeks 
thereafter. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was overall survival (OS) in the intent-to-treat (ITT) population. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were OS in PD-L1 Positive Analysis Set (PD-L1 score of visually-
estimated Combined Positive Score, now known as Tumour Area Positivity score [TAP] [PD-L1 
score] ≥10%), objective response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS) and duration of 
response (DoR), as assessed by the investigator per RECIST v1.1. 
A total of 512 patients were enrolled and randomised to tislelizumab (n = 256) or ICC (n = 256; 
paclitaxel [n = 85], docetaxel [n = 53] or irinotecan [n = 118]). Of the 512 patients, 142 (27.7%) had 
PD-L1 score ≥10%, 222 (43.4%) had PD-L1 score <10% , and 148 (28.9%) had unknown baseline 
PD-L1 status. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The baseline characteristics for the study population were: median age 62 years (range: 35 to 86), 
37.9% age 65 years or older; 84% male; 19% White and 80% Asian; 25% with ECOG PS of 0 and 
75% with ECOG PS of 1. Ninety-five percent of the study population had metastatic disease at study 
entry. All patients had received at least one prior anti-cancer chemotherapy, which was a platinum-
based combination chemotherapy for 97% of patients. 
BGB-A317-302 showed a statistically significant improvement in OS for patients randomised to the 
tislelizumab arm as compared to the ICC arm. The median follow-up times by reverse Kaplan-Meier 
methodology were 20.8 months in the tislelizumab arm and 21.1 months in the ICC arm. 
Efficacy results are shown in Table 3 and Figure 1. 
Table 3 
Efficacy results in BGB-A317-302 
Endpoint 
Tevimbra 
(N = 256) 
Chemotherapy 
(N = 256) 
223 (87.1) 
1.6 (1.4, 2.7) 
213 (83.2) 
6.3 (5.3, 7.0) 
197 (77.0) 
8.6 (7.5, 10.4) 
0.70 (0.57, 0.85) 
p = 0.0001 
OS 
Deaths, n (%) 
Median (months)a (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b 
p-valuec 
PFS assessed by investigatord 
Disease progression or death, n (%) 
Median (months) (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
ORR with confirmation by investigatord 
ORR (%) (95% CI) 
CR, n (%) 
PR, n (%) 
SD, n (%) 
Median duration of response with 
confirmation by investigator (months) 
(95% CI) 
OS = overall survival; CI = confidence interval; PFS = progression-free survival; ORR = objective response 
rate; CR = complete response; PR = partial response; SD = stable disease 
a  Estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. 
b  Based on Cox regression model including treatment as covariate, and stratified by baseline ECOG status 
15.2 (11.1, 20.2) 
5 (2.0) 
34 (13.3) 
81 (31.6) 
10.3 (6.5, 13.2) 
6.6 (3.9, 10.4) 
1 (0.4) 
16 (6.3) 
90 (35.2) 
6.3 (2.8, 8.5) 
180 (70.3) 
2.1 (1.5, 2.7) 
0.83 (0.67, 1.01) 
and investigator’s choice of chemotherapy. 
c  Based on a one-sided log-rank test stratified by ECOG performance status and investigator’s choice of 
chemotherapy. 
d  Based on ad hoc analysis. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  Kaplan-Meier plot of OS in BGB-A317-302 (ITT analysis set) 
1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
0.0 
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
p
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
Tislelizumab: n = 256, events = 197 Median: 8.6, 95% CI 7.5, 10.4 
ICC: n = 256, events = 213 Median: 6.3, 95% CI 5.3, 7.0 
HR (95% CI): 0.70 (0.57, 0.85) 
Log-rank test p-value: 0.0001 
Number of patients at risk: 
Time 
Tislelizumab 
ICC 
Time (months) 
Efficacy and PD-L1 subgroups: 
In a pre-specified analysis of OS in the PD-L1 positive subgroup (PD-L1 score ≥10%), the stratified 
hazard ratio (HR) for OS was 0.49 (95% CI: 0.33 to 0.74), with a 1-sided stratified log-rank test p-
value of 0.0003. The median survival was 10.0 months (95% CI: 8.5 to 15.1 months) and 5.1 months 
(95% CI: 3.8 to 8.2 months) for the tislelizumab and ICC arms, respectively. 
In the PD-L1 negative subgroup (PD-L1 score <10%), the stratified HR for OS was 0.83 (95% CI: 
0.62 to 1.12), with median overall survival of 7.5 months (95% CI: 5.5 to 8.9 months) and 5.8 months 
(95% CI: 4.8 to 6.9 months) for the tislelizumab and ICC arms, respectively. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
tislelizumab in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of malignant neoplasms (except 
central nervous system, haematopoietic and lymphoid tissue) (see section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics (PK) of tislelizumab were characterised using population PK analysis with 
concentration data from 2 596 patients with advanced malignancies who received tislelizumab doses 
of 0.5 to 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks, 2.0 and 5.0 mg/kg every 3 weeks, and 200 mg every 3 weeks. 
The time to reach 90% steady-state level is approximately 84 days (12 weeks) after 200 mg doses once 
every 3 weeks, and the steady-state accumulation ratio of tislelizumab PK exposure is approximately 
2-fold. 
Absorption 
Tislelizumab is administered intravenously and therefore is immediately and completely bioavailable. 
Distribution 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates that the steady-state volume of distribution is 6.42 l, 
which is typical of monoclonal antibodies with limited distribution. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Tislelizumab is expected to be degraded into small peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways. 
Elimination 
Based on population PK analysis, the clearance of tislelizumab was 0.153 l/day with an inter-
individual variability of 26.3% and the geometrical mean terminal half-life was approximately 
23.8 days with a coefficient variation (CV) of 31%. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
At the dosing regimens of 0.5 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg once every 2 or 3 weeks (including 200 mg once 
every 3 weeks), the PK of tislelizumab were observed to be linear and the exposure was dose 
proportional. 
Special populations 
The effects of various covariates on tislelizumab PK were assessed in population PK analyses. The 
following factors had no clinically relevant effect on the exposure of tislelizumab: age (range 18 to 
90 years), weight (range 32 to 130 kg), gender, race (White, Asian and other), mild to moderate renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance [CLCr] ≥30 ml/min), mild to moderate hepatic impairment (total 
bilirubin ≤3 times ULN and any AST), and tumour burden. 
Renal impairment 
No dedicated studies of tislelizumab have been conducted in patients with renal impairment. In the 
population PK analyses of tislelizumab, no clinically relevant differences in the clearance of 
tislelizumab were found between patients with mild renal impairment (CLCr 60 to 89 ml/min, 
n = 1 046) or moderate renal impairment (CLCr 30 to 59 ml/min, n = 320) and patients with normal 
renal function (CLCr ≥90 ml/min, n = 1 223). Mild and moderate renal impairment had no effect on the 
exposure of tislelizumab (see section 4.2). Based on the limited number of patients with severe renal 
impairment (n = 5), the effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tislelizumab is 
not conclusive. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dedicated studies of tislelizumab have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment. In the 
population PK analyses of tislelizumab, no clinically relevant differences in the clearance of 
tislelizumab were found between patients with mild hepatic impairment (bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST 
>ULN or bilirubin >1.0 to 1.5 x ULN and any AST, n = 396) or moderate hepatic impairment 
(bilirubin >1.5 to 3 x ULN and any AST; n = 12), compared to patients with normal hepatic function 
(bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST = ULN, n = 2 182) (see section 4.2). Based on the limited number of 
patients with severe hepatic impairment (bilirubin >3 x ULN and any AST, n = 2), the effect of severe 
hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tislelizumab is unknown. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In repeat-dose toxicology studies in cynomolgus monkeys with intravenous dose administration at 
doses of 3, 10, 30 or 60 mg/kg every 2 weeks for 13 weeks (7 dose administrations), no apparent 
treatment-related toxicity or histopathological changes were observed at doses up to 30 mg/kg every 
2 weeks, corresponding to 4.3 to 6.6 times the exposure in humans with the clinical dose of 200 mg. 
No developmental and reproductive toxicity studies or animal fertility studies have been conducted 
with tislelizumab. 
No studies have been performed to assess the potential of tislelizumab for carcinogenicity or 
genotoxicity. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium citrate dihydrate 
Citric acid monohydrate 
L-histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
L-histidine 
Trehalose dihydrate 
Polysorbate 20 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products except those mentioned in section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years. 
After opening 
Once opened, the medicinal product should be diluted and infused immediately (see section 6.6 for 
instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration). 
After preparation of solution for infusion 
Tevimbra does not contain a preservative. Chemical and physical in-use stability has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. The 24 hours include storage of the diluted solution under 
refrigeration (2°C to 8°C) for no more than 20 hours, time required for returning to room temperature 
(25°C or below) and time to complete the infusion within 4 hours. 
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of dilution precludes the risk of microbial 
contamination, the product should be used immediately. 
If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. The 
diluted solution must not be frozen. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
10 ml of Tevimbra concentrate is provided in a clear Type 1 glass vial, with a grey chlorobutyl stopper 
with FluroTec coating and seal cap with a flip-off button. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tevimbra is available in unit packs containing 1 vial and in multipacks containing 2 (2 packs of 1) 
vials. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The diluted solution for infusion should be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic 
technique. 
Preparation of solution for infusion 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Two Tevimbra vials are required for each dose. 
Remove the vials from the refrigerator, taking care not to shake them. 
Inspect each vial visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to administration. The 
concentrate is a clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to slightly yellowish solution. Do not use 
a vial if the solution is cloudy, or if visible particles or discolouration are observed. 
Invert the vials gently without shaking. Withdraw the solution from the two vials (a total of 
200 mg in 20 ml) into a syringe and transfer into an intravenous infusion bag containing sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, to prepare a diluted solution with a final 
concentration ranging from 2 to 5 mg/ml. Mix diluted solution by gentle inversion to avoid 
foaming or excessive shearing of the solution. 
Administration 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Administer the diluted Tevimbra solution by infusion through an intravenous administration line 
with a sterile, non-pyrogenic, low-protein-binding 0.2 micron or 0.22 micron in-line or add-on 
filter with a surface area of approximately 10 cm². 
The first infusion should be delivered over 60 minutes. If well tolerated, subsequent infusions 
may be administered over 30 minutes. 
Other medicinal products should not be co-administered through the same infusion line. 
Tevimbra must not be administered as an intravenous push or single bolus injection. 
The intravenous line must be flushed at the end of the infusion. 
Discard any unused portion left in the vial. 
Tevimbra vials are for single use only. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Beigene Ireland Limited  
10 Earlsfort Terrace 
Dublin 2 
D02 T380 
Ireland 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tel. +353 1 566 7660 
E-mail:  bg.ireland@beigene.com  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1758/001-002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
Boehringer Ingelheim Biopharmaceuticals (China) Ltd. 
1090 Halei Road 
Pilot Free Trade Zone 
201203 Shanghai 
China 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to the launch of Tevimbra in each Member State, the MAH must agree about the content and 
format of the Patient Card, including communication media, distribution modalities, and any other 
aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority. 
The Patient Card is aimed at increasing the awareness of patients on the signs and symptoms relevant 
to the early recognition/identification of the potential immune-related ARs and prompt them about 
when to seek medical attention. It also contains prompts to enter the contact details of the physician 
and to alert other physicians that the patient is being treated with Tevimbra. The Patient Card is 
designed to be carried by the patient at all times and presented to any healthcare professional who may 
help them. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Tevimbra is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe and use Tevimbra have access to/are 
provided with the Patient Card disseminated through healthcare professionals. 
The Patient Card shall contain the following key elements: 
• 
Description of the main signs or symptoms of the immune-related ARs (pneumonitis, colitis, 
hepatitis, endocrinopathies, immune-mediated skin adverse reactions, nephritis and other 
immune-related ARs) and infusion-related reactions, and the importance of notifying their 
treating physician immediately if symptoms occur. 
The importance of not attempting to self-treat any symptoms without consulting their healthcare 
professional first. 
The importance of carrying the Patient Card at all times and to show it at all medical visits to 
healthcare professionals other than the prescriber (e.g. emergency healthcare professionals). 
A warning message to inform healthcare professionals treating the patient at any time, including 
in emergency conditions, that the patient is being treated with Tevimbra. 
A reminder that all known or suspected adverse drug reactions (ADRs) can also be reported to 
local regulatory authorities. 
The contact details of their Tevimbra prescriber. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Patient Card reminds patients about key symptoms that need to be reported immediately to the 
physician.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tevimbra 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
tislelizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One 10 ml vial contains 100 mg tislelizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: sodium-citrate dihydrate, citric acid monohydrate, L-histidine hydrochloride 
monohydrate, L-histidine, trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 20, water for injections. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
100 mg/10 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
Single use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Beigene Ireland Limited  
10 Earlsfort Terrace 
Dublin 2 
D02 T380 
Ireland 
Tel. +353 1 566 7660 
E-mail:  bg.ireland@beigene.com  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1758/001 
1 vial 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACKS (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tevimbra 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
tislelizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One 10 ml vial contains 100 mg tislelizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: sodium citrate dihydrate, citric acid monohydrate, L-histidine hydrochloride 
monohydrate, L-histidine, trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 20, water for injections. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
Multipack: 2 (2 x 1) vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
Single use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vials in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Beigene Ireland Limited  
10 Earlsfort Terrace 
Dublin 2 
D02 T380 
Ireland 
Tel. +353 1 566 7660 
E-mail:  bg.ireland@beigene.com  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1758/002 
2 (2 x 1) vials 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACKS (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tevimbra 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
tislelizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One 10 ml vial contains 100 mg tislelizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: sodium citrate dihydrate, citric acid monohydrate, L-histidine hydrochloride 
monohydrate, L-histidine, trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 20, water for injections. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
Single use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Beigene Ireland Limited  
10 Earlsfort Terrace 
Dublin 2 
D02 T380 
Ireland 
Tel. +353 1 566 7660 
E-mail:  bg.ireland@beigene.com  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1758/002 
2 (2 x 1) vials 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tevimbra 100 mg sterile concentrate 
tislelizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One 10 ml vial contains 100 mg tislelizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: sodium-citrate dihydrate, citric acid monohydrate, L-histidine hydrochloride 
monohydrate, L-histidine, trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 20, water for injections. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
100 mg/10 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
IV after dilution 
Single use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Beigene Ireland Limited  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1758/001 
EU/1/23/1758/002 
1 vial 
2 (2 x 1) vials 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Tevimbra 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
tislelizumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
It is important that you keep the Patient Card with you during treatment. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Tevimbra is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Tevimbra 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Tevimbra is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Tevimbra 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Tevimbra is and what it is used for 
Tevimbra is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance tislelizumab. It is a monoclonal 
antibody, a type of protein that is designed to recognise and attach to a specific target in the body 
called programmed death-1 receptor (PD-1) which is found on the surface of T and B cells (types of 
white blood cells that form part of the immune system, the body’s natural defences). When PD-1 is 
activated by cancer cells it can switch off the activity of T cells. By blocking PD-1, Tevimbra prevents 
it from switching off your T cells which helps your immune system fight the cancer. 
Tevimbra is used in adults to treat: 
• 
a type of oesophageal cancer called oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma that has spread to 
other parts of the body, has already been treated by anti-cancer therapy and cannot be removed 
by surgery. 
If you have any questions about how Tevimbra works or why this medicine has been prescribed for 
you, ask your doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Tevimbra 
You must not be given Tevimbra 
- 
if you are allergic to tislelizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). Talk to your doctor if you are not sure. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before you are given Tevimbra if you have or have had: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
autoimmune disease (a condition where the body’s own defence system attacks normal cells) 
inflammation of the liver (hepatitis) or other liver problems 
inflammation of the kidney (nephritis) 
pneumonia or inflammation of the lungs (pneumonitis) 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inflammation of the large bowel (colitis) 
serious rash 
problems with hormone-producing glands (including the adrenal, pituitary and thyroid glands) 
type 1 diabetes mellitus 
a solid organ transplant 
infusion-related reaction 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If any of the above apply to you, or you are not sure, talk to your doctor before you are given 
Tevimbra. 
Look out for serious side effects 
Tevimbra can have serious side effects, which can sometimes become life-threatening and can lead to 
death. Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these serious side effects during treatment with 
Tevimbra: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
inflammation of the liver (hepatitis) or other liver problems 
inflammation of the kidney (nephritis) 
inflammation of the lungs (pneumonitis) 
inflammation of the large bowel (colitis) 
severe skin reactions: symptoms may include fever, flu-like symptoms, rash, itching, skin 
blistering or ulcers in the mouth or on other moist surfaces 
problems with hormone-producing glands (especially the adrenal, pituitary or thyroid glands): 
symptoms may include fast heart rate, extreme tiredness, weight gain or weight loss, dizziness 
or fainting, hair loss, feeling cold, constipation, headaches that will not go away or unusual 
headaches 
type 1 diabetes mellitus 
infusion-related reaction 
inflammation of the muscles (myositis) 
inflammation of the heart muscle (myocarditis) 
inflammation of the joints (arthritis) 
inflammatory disorder that causes muscle pain and stiffness, especially in the shoulders and hips 
(polymyalgia rheumatica): symptoms may include pain in the shoulders, neck, upper arms, 
buttocks, hips or thighs, stiffness in affected areas, pain or stiffness in the wrists, elbows or 
knees 
inflammation of the membrane around the heart (pericarditis) 
inflammation of the nerves: symptoms may include pain, weakness and paralysis in the 
extremities (Guillain-Barré syndrome) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
➢ 
For more information on the symptoms of any of the above, read section 4 (“Possible side 
effects”). Talk to your doctor if you have any questions or concerns. 
Patient Card 
You will also find key information from this package leaflet in the Patient Card that you have been 
given by your doctor. It is important that you carry the Patient Card with you at all times and show it 
to a healthcare professional in case of signs and symptoms that may indicate immune-related adverse 
reactions (listed above under “Look out for serious side effects”), for a prompt diagnosis and adequate 
treatment. 
Monitoring during your treatment with Tevimbra 
Your doctor will carry out regular tests (liver function tests, kidney function tests, radiographic 
imaging tests) before and during treatment. 
Your doctor will also carry out regular blood tests before and during treatment with Tevimbra to 
monitor the blood sugar and hormone levels in your body. This is because blood sugar and hormone 
levels can be affected by Tevimbra. 
Children and adolescents 
Tevimbra should not be used in children and adolescents below 18 years of age. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Tevimbra 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. This 
includes herbal medicines and medicines obtained without a prescription. 
In particular, tell your doctor if you are taking any medicines that suppress your immune system, 
including corticosteroids (such as prednisone), since these medicines may interfere with the effect of 
Tevimbra. However, once you have started treatment with Tevimbra, your doctor may give you 
corticosteroids to reduce any side effects that you may have. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before you are given this medicine. 
You should not be given Tevimbra if you are pregnant unless your doctor specifically prescribes it for 
you. The effects of Tevimbra in pregnant women are not known, but it is possible that the active 
substance, tislelizumab, could harm an unborn baby. 
- 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant, you must use effective contraception while 
you are being treated with Tevimbra and for at least 4 months following the last dose of 
Tevimbra. 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, tell your doctor. 
- 
It is not known whether Tevimbra passes into breast milk. A risk to the breast-fed infant cannot be 
ruled out. If you are breast-feeding, tell your doctor. You should not breast-feed during treatment with 
Tevimbra and for at least 4 months after the last dose of Tevimbra. 
Driving and using machines 
Tevimbra has a minor effect on your ability to drive or use machines. 
Feeling tired or weak are possible side effects of Tevimbra. Do not drive or use machines after you 
have been given Tevimbra unless you are sure you are feeling well. 
Tevimbra contains sodium 
Tell your doctor if you are on a low-sodium (low-salt) diet before you are given Tevimbra. This 
medicine contains 1.6 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each ml of concentrate. A 
single infusion of Tevimbra contains 32 mg sodium in two 10 ml vials. This is equivalent to 1.6% of 
the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3. 
How Tevimbra is given 
Tevimbra will be given to you in a hospital or clinic under the supervision of an experienced doctor. 
- 
The usual dose of Tevimbra is 200 mg, which is given as an intravenous infusion (drip into a 
vein) every 3 weeks. 
The first dose of Tevimbra will be given by an infusion over a period of 60 minutes. If you 
tolerate the first dose well, then the next infusion may be given over a period of 30 minutes. 
Your doctor will decide how many treatments you need. 
- 
- 
If you miss a dose of Tevimbra 
- 
- 
Call your doctor immediately to reschedule your appointment. 
It is very important that you do not miss a dose of this medicine. 
If you stop Tevimbra treatment 
Stopping your treatment may stop the effect of the medicine. Do not stop treatment with Tevimbra 
unless you have discussed this with your doctor. 
If you have any further questions about your treatment or the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some of the side effects of Tevimbra may be serious (see the list under “Look out for serious side 
effects” in section 2 of this leaflet). If you experience any of these serious side effects, tell your 
doctor immediately. 
The following side effects have been reported with Tevimbra alone: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
Underactive thyroid gland, which can cause tiredness, weight gain, skin and hair changes 
(hypothyroidism) 
Cough 
Rash 
Itching (pruritus) 
Tiredness (fatigue) 
Decreased appetite 
Weakness, spontaneous bleeding or bruising and frequent infections, fever, chills and sore 
throat (anaemia) 
High blood level of bilirubin, a breakdown product of red blood cells, which can cause 
yellowing of the skin and eyes, indicating liver problems 
Increased blood level of the liver enzyme aspartate aminotransferase 
Increased blood level of the liver enzyme alanine aminotransferase 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Common (may affect up to 1 in every 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Pneumonia 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Spontaneous bleeding or bruising (thrombocytopenia) 
Frequent infections, fever, chills, sore throat or mouth ulcers due to infections (neutropenia or 
lymphopenia) 
Feeling sick (nausea), vomiting, loss of appetite, pain on the right side of the stomach, 
yellowing of the skin or the whites of the eyes, drowsiness, dark-coloured urine, bleeding or 
bruising more easily than normal – possible symptoms of liver problems (hepatitis) 
Joint pain (arthralgia) 
Muscle pain (myalgia) 
Shortness of breath, cough or chest pain - possible symptoms of lung problems (pneumonitis) 
Fatigue, swelling at the base of the neck, pain in front of the throat – possible symptoms of 
thyroid gland problems (thyroiditis) 
Increased blood sugar level, thirst, dry mouth, need to pass urine more frequently, tiredness, 
increased appetite with weight loss, confusion, nausea, vomiting, fruity smelling breath, 
difficulty breathing and dry or flushed skin – possible symptoms of hyperglycaemia 
Tiredness, confusion, muscle twitching, convulsions (hyponatraemia) 
Muscle weakness, muscle spasms, abnormal heart rhythm (hypokalaemia) 
Overactive thyroid gland, which can cause hyperactivity, sweating, weight loss and thirst 
(hyperthyroidism) 
Difficulty breathing (dyspnoea) 
Increased blood pressure (hypertension) 
Mouth sores or ulcers with inflammation of the gums (stomatitis) 
Increased blood level of the liver enzyme alkaline phosphatase 
High blood level of the enzyme creatine kinase 
High blood level of creatinine 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in every 100 people) 
- 
Changes in the amount or colour of the urine, pain while urinating, pain in kidney area – 
possible symptoms of kidney problems (nephritis) 
Diarrhoea or more bowel movements than normal, black tarry, sticky stools, blood or mucus in 
stools, severe pain or tenderness in the stomach – possible symptoms of intestine problems 
(colitis) 
Severe upper stomach pain, nausea, vomiting, fever, tender abdomen – possible symptoms of 
pancreas problems (pancreatitis) 
High blood sugar, feeling more hungry or thirsty than normal, passing urine more often than 
normal - possible symptoms of diabetes mellitus 
Muscle pain, stiffness, weakness, chest pain or severe tiredness – possible symptoms of muscle 
problems (myositis) 
Chest pain, rapid or abnormal heartbeat, shortness of breath at rest or during activity, fluid 
build-up with swelling of the legs, ankles and feet, tiredness - possible symptoms of heart 
muscle problems (myocarditis) 
Joint pain, stiffness, swelling or redness, decreased range of motion in the joints – possible 
symptoms of joint problems (arthritis) 
Eye redness, eye pain and swelling - possible symptoms of problems affecting the uvea, the 
layer beneath the white of the eyeball (uveitis) 
Adrenal insufficiency (disorder in which the adrenal glands do not make enough of certain 
hormones) 
Inflammation of the nerves: symptoms may include pain, weakness and paralysis in the 
extremities (Guillain-Barré syndrome) 
Chills or shaking, itching or rash, flushing, shortness of breath or wheezing, dizziness or fever 
which may occur during infusion or up to 24 hours after infusion – possible symptoms of 
infusion-related reaction 
Low blood level of leukocytes 
High blood levels of haemoglobin, potassium and sodium 
Low blood level of albumin 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in every 1 000 people) 
- 
Chest pain, fever, cough, palpitations - possible symptoms of problems affecting the membrane 
around the heart (pericarditis) 
Frequent headaches, vision changes (either low vision or double vision), fatigue and/or 
weakness, confusion, decreased blood pressure, dizziness - possible symptoms of pituitary 
gland problems (hypophysitis) 
Itching or peeling skin, skin sores - possible symptoms of severe skin reactions 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix 
V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tevimbra 
Your doctor, pharmacist or nurse is responsible for storing this medicine and disposing of any unused 
product correctly. The following information is intended for healthcare professionals. 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial label after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
Tevimbra does not contain a preservative. Chemical and physical in-use stability has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. The 24 hours include storage of the diluted solution under 
refrigeration (2°C to 8°C) for no more than 20 hours, time required for returning to room temperature 
(25°C or below) and time to complete the infusion within 4 hours. 
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of dilution precludes the risk of microbial 
contamination, the product should be used immediately. 
If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. The 
diluted solution must not be frozen. 
Do not store any unused portion of the infusion solution for reuse. Any unused medicine or waste 
material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Tevimbra contains 
- 
The active substance is tislelizumab. Each ml of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 
10 mg of tislelizumab. 
Each vial contains 100 mg of tislelizumab in 10 ml of concentrate. 
- 
The other ingredients are sodium citrate dihydrate (see section 2, “Tevimbra contains sodium”), citric 
acid monohydrate, L-histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, L-histidine, trehalose dihydrate, 
polysorbate 20 and water for injections. 
What Tevimbra looks like and contents of the pack 
Tevimbra concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) is a clear to slightly opalescent, 
colourless to slightly yellowish solution. 
Tevimbra is available in packs containing 1 vial and in multipacks containing 2 (2 packs of 1) vials. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Beigene Ireland Limited  
10 Earlsfort Terrace 
Dublin 2 
D02 T380 
Ireland 
Tel. +353 1 566 7660 
E-mail:  bg.ireland@beigene.com  
Manufacturer 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
This leaflet was last revised in 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
42 
 
 
 
The following information is for healthcare professionals only: 
Tevimbra vials are for single use only. Each vial contains 100 mg of tislelizumab. 
The diluted solution for infusion should be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic 
technique. 
Preparation of solution for infusion 
• 
Two Tevimbra vials are required for each dose. 
• 
• 
• 
Remove the vials from the refrigerator, taking care not to shake them. 
Inspect each vial visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to administration. The 
concentrate is a clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to slightly yellowish solution. Do not use 
a vial if the solution is cloudy, or if visible particles or discolouration are observed. 
Invert the vials gently without shaking. Withdraw the solution from the two vials (a total of 
200 mg in 20 ml) into a syringe and transfer into an intravenous infusion bag containing sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, to prepare a diluted solution with a final 
concentration ranging from 2 to 5 mg/ml. Mix the diluted solution by gentle inversion to avoid 
foaming or excessive shearing of the solution. 
Administration 
• 
Administer the diluted Tevimbra solution by infusion through an intravenous administration line 
with a sterile, non-pyrogenic, low-protein-binding 0.2 micron or 0.22 micron in-line or add-on 
filter with a surface area of approximately 10 cm². 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The first infusion should be delivered over 60 minutes. If well tolerated, subsequent infusions 
may be administered over 30 minutes. 
Other medicinal products should not be co-administered through the same infusion line. 
Tevimbra must not be administered as an intravenous push or single bolus injection. 
Tevimbra does not contain a preservative. Chemical and physical in-use stability has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. The 24 hours include storage of the diluted solution 
under refrigeration (2°C to 8°C) for no more than 20 hours, time required for returning to room 
temperature (25°C and below) and time to complete the infusion within 4 hours. From a 
microbiological point of view, unless the method of dilution precludes the risk of microbial 
contamination, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage 
times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
The diluted solution must not be frozen. 
Discard any unused portion left in the vial. 
The intravenous line must be flushed at the end of the infusion. 
Tevimbra vials are for single use only. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
