16 December 2010 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment Report 
For 
Teysuno 
(tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil) 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/0001242 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active Substance............................................................................................. 8 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product .............................................................................. 12 
2.2.4. Discussion and conclusions on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...... 13 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 14 
2.3.1. Pharmacology ............................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 16 
2.3.3. Toxicology .................................................................................................... 18 
2.3.4. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 25 
2.3.5. Discussion and conclusions on non-clinical aspects ............................................. 25 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 28 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 28 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 31 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 34 
2.4.4. Discussion and Conclusions on clinical pharmacology .......................................... 35 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 35 
2.5.1. Dose response studies.................................................................................... 35 
2.5.2. Main study ................................................................................................... 36 
2.5.3. Discussion and conclusions on clinical efficacy ................................................... 51 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 52 
2.6.1. Discussion and conclusions on clinical safety ..................................................... 61 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 62 
2.8. Benefit-Risk Balance ......................................................................................... 65 
2.8.1. Discussion on the benefit-risk balance .............................................................. 67 
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................. 67 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 2/67
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
5-FU 
ADME 
ADR 
AE 
ALT 
AST 
AUC 
AUC0-inf 
AUC0-last 
5-AZU 
b.i.d.  
CA 
CDDP 
CDHP 
CF 
CFT 
CI 
Cl 
cm 
Cmax 
CNS 
CPT 
CrCl 
CRF 
CS 
CSR 
CTC 
CYP 
CV 
DLT 
DNA 
DPD 
dTMP 
dUMP 
ECG 
ED50 
ERA 
F 
FCD 
FBAL 
FdUMP 
FLAGS 
FT 
FUMP 
FUPA 
GE 
GI tract 
Gimeracil 
hERG 
HEK293 cells 
HFS 
HR 
HTN 
IC50 value 
i.v. 
kg 
KPS 
5-fluorouracil 
absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion 
Adverse drug reaction (ie, treatment-related adverse 
event) 
Adverse event 
Alanine aminotransferase (SGPT) 
Aspartate aminotransferase (SGOT) 
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve 
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 
time zero to infinity 
Area under the concentration-time curve from time 0 
to last sampling time 
5-azauracil 
twice a day 
cyanuric acid 
Cisplatin 
Gimeracil 
5-FU + Cisplatin 
CDHP + FT 
Confidence interval 
Clearance 
Centimetre 
Maximum plasma concentration 
Central nervous system 
Irinotecan 
Creatinine clearance 
Case Report Form 
S-1 + cisplatin 
Clinical Study Report 
Common Toxicity Criteria  
Cytochrome P-450 enzyme system 
Coefficient of variation 
Dose Limiting Toxicity 
Deoxyribonucleic acid 
Dihydropyrimidine Dehydrogenase  
deoxythymidine monophosphate  
deoxyuridine monophosphate  
Electrocardiogram 
half-maximally effective dose 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
female 
combination of tegafur with CDHP 
α-fluoro-β-alanine  
fluorodeoxyuridine monophosphate  
First-Line Advanced Gastric Cancer Study (S-1301) 
Tegafur 
fluorouridine triphosphate 
5,6 dihydro-5-FU, α fluoro β ureidopropionate 
Gastroesophageal 
gastrointestinal tract 
CDHP 
human ether-a-go-go-related gene 
human embryonic kidney cells 
Hand-Foot Syndrome 
Heart rate 
Hypertension 
half-maximally inhibitory concentration 
intravenous 
Kilograms 
Karnofsky Performance Status 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 3/67
 
 
 
LDH 
M 
m2 
MedDRA 
mg 
mg 
MI 
mL 
mM 
MTD 
N,N-DMF 
NCI 
NOAEL 
NOEL 
ns 
OPRT 
OS 
Oxo 
PD 
PFS 
P-gp 
PK 
p.o.  
PPI 
PR interval 
PT 
QD 
QTc interval 
QTc 
QTcB 
QTcF 
QTcN 
RBC 
RNA 
ROS 
RR 
S-1 
SAE 
SD 
SGOT 
SGPT 
SOC 
t1/2 
tmax 
TAB-1001 
TAB-1501 
Tegafur 
TPJ 
TPUI 
TS 
TTC 
TTP 
UFT 
UK  
ULN 
US; USA 
WBC 
Lactate Dehydrogenase 
male 
Meters squared 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
Milligram 
Milligrams 
Myocardial Infarction 
Millilitre 
Millimolar 
Maximum Tolerated Dose 
N,N-Dimethylformamide 
National Cancer Institute 
no observed adverse effect level 
no observed effect level 
Not Significant 
orotate phosphoribosyl transferase  
Overall survival 
Oxonic acid; Oteracil potassium. 
Progressive Disease; Disease Progression 
Progression-free survival 
P-glycoprotein 
Pharmacokinetic(s) 
per os (oral) 
Proton pump inhibitor 
The beginning of the P wave to the QRS complex 
Preferred Term 
Once daily 
The length of time it takes the heart’s electrical 
system to repolarise, adjusted for heart rate (HR:  
normal is 350-440 milliseconds) 
Corrected QT interval 
QT interval using Bazett’s correction 
QT interval using Fridericia’s correction 
QT interval using population-specific correction 
Red Blood Cell 
Ribonucleic acid 
reactive oxygen species 
RR interval (time from one heartbeat to the next) 
An oral pyrimidine fluoride-derived anticancer agent. 
Consists of tegafur combined with gimeracil and 
oteracil potassium 
Serious Adverse Event 
Standard Deviation 
Serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase 
Serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase 
System Organ Class 
Half-life 
Time to maximum plasma concentration 
CDHP 
potassium oxonate 
FT 
Taiho Pharmaceutical Japan, LTD. 
Taiho Pharma USA, Inc. 
thymidylate synthase  
Threshold of toxicological concern 
Time to tumour progression 
tegafur/uracil combination product in a molar ratio of 
1:4 
United Kingdom  
Upper Limit of Normal 
United States; United States of America 
White blood cell 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 4/67
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Taiho  Pharma  Europe  Ltd  submitted  on  28  October  2009  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Teysuno, through the centralised procedure 
falling  within  the  Article  3(1)  and  point  4  of  Annex  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to 
the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 23 April 2009. 
Teysuno was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/07/515 on 20 December 2007. Teysuno 
was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  in  the  following  indication:  for  treatment  of  gastric 
cancer. The calculated prevalence of this condition was 3 per 10,000 EU populations.  
At  the  time  of  the  review  of  the  orphan  designation  criteria  by  the  Committee  on  Orphan  Medical 
Products (COMP), the Applicant requested the Commission to remove the product from the Community 
Register of Orphan Medicinal Products on 12 January 2011. 
The  applicant  applied  with  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  for  the  indication  of  treatment  of 
advanced gastric cancer in combination with cisplatin. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data,  non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies.  
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  7  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
P/17/2008 for the following condition:  
 
Treatment of gastric adenocarcinoma 
on the granting of a class waiver.  
Information relating to Orphan Market Exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek Scientific Advice at the CHMP. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 5/67
 
 
 
 
Licensing status 
Teysuno  has  been  given  a  Marketing  Authorisation  in  Japan  on  25  January  1999,  South  Korea  on 
29 July 2003, China on 9 January 2009 and Singapore on 13 July 2009.  
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Barbara van Zwieten-Boot       Co-Rapporteur:  Gonzalo Calvo Rojas 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 28 October 2009.  
The procedure started on 18 November 2009. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 5 February 2010. 
The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  8  February 
2010.  
  During the meeting on 18 March 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the  applicant  on  
19 March 2010). 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
14 June 2010. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  3 September 2010. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 23 September 2010, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
15 October 2010. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 2 November 2010. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Day 180 Joint Assessment Report to all CHMP members on 
12 November 2010. 
  During the meeting on 13-16 December 2010 the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Teysuno  on  16  December  2010.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 19 November 2010. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 6/67
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
In  the  current  application  for  marketing  authorisation  the  applicant  applied  for  an  indication  for 
Teysuno for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer together with the use of cisplatin. 
Advanced gastric cancer includes locally advanced unresectable gastric cancer (accounting for 30% of 
all  gastric  cancers)  and  metastatic  gastric  cancer  at  the  time  of  diagnosis  (accounting  for  30%  of  all 
gastric cancers), as well as recurrent gastric cancer after resection.  
Metastatic gastric cancer remains an incurable disease, with a 5-year survival proportion of 7%-27%. 
Chemotherapy is the main treatment option. Cisplatin- 5-FU (CF) based chemotherapy has been used 
as  a  reference  regimen  for  clinical  use  and  for  protocols  until  recently.  In  2006  a  meta-analysis from 
randomized  studies  showed  that  the  best  survival  results  may  be  obtained  with  three-drug  regimens 
containing a fluoropyrimidine, an anthracycline, and cisplatin (e.g. ECF, A. Wagner et al. 2006). 
A  number  of  new  combinations  incorporating  docetaxel,  oxaliplatin  and  capecitabine  are  being 
developed.  Published  results  of  some  combinations,  such  as  epirubicin-oxaliplatin-capecitabine,  or 
docetaxel-cisplatin-5-FU have claimed similar or higher activity than ECF (epirubicine/cisplatin/5-FU). 
About the product 
Teysuno  is  an  oral,  fixed  dose  combination  drug  of  tegafur  (a  fluoropyrimidine  prodrug  of 
5-fluorouracil)  and  2  modulators  of  5-FU-metabolism;  gimeracil  and  oteracil.  Teysuno  has  been 
developed with the initial aim to provide an orally bioavailable 5-FU formulation with sustained plasma 
concentrations  which  mimic  the  pharmacokinetics  of  continuous  infusion,  aiming  to  reduce 
gastrointestinal toxicity, and aiming to provide added convenience through oral administration. 
Tegafur  is  an  orally  bioavailable  fluoropyrimidine  that  is  gradually  converted  into  5-FU  by 
C-5’ oxidation  (by  microsomal  enzymes,  principally  CYP2A6)  and  C-2’  hydrolysis  (by  cytosolic 
enzymes, principally thymidine phosphorylase). The mechanism of action of 5-FU has been extensively 
studied  over  time,  causing  death  of  proliferating  cells  inhibiting  DNA  synthesis  through  two  major 
pathways.  One  is  through  5-FU  metabolic  activation  into  FdUMP  that  inhibits  DNA  synthesis  by 
inhibition  of  TS.  The  second  metabolic  pathway  affects  RNA  function.  5-FU  is  metabolized  into 
5-fluorouridine  triophosphate  that  can  be  incorporated  into  RNA  affecting  RNA  normal  function  and 
resulting in protein errors that may cause cell death. 
According to the applicant, gimeracil has been added as modulator to enhance the efficacy of tegafur 
by  inhibiting  catabolism  and  subsequent  inactivation  of  5-FU  by  inhibiting  the  enzyme  DPD 
(dihydropyrimidine  dehydrogenase),  so  that  it  was  expected  that  efficacious  blood  and  tumour 
concentrations  of  5-FU  are  maintained  for  a  longer  period  of  time.  The  applicant  also  postulated  that 
oteracil  has  been  added  as  modulator  to  reduce  unwanted  5-FU-induced  gastrointestinal  toxicity,  as 
gastrointestinal toxicity is related to phosphorylation of 5-FU.  
Oteracil, by inhibiting the enzyme orotate phosphoribosyl transferase (OPRT), inhibits the anabolism of 
5-FU  to  5-fluorouridine-5’-monophosphate  (FUMP).  FUMP  is  metabolised  to  a  series  of  products 
including  FdUMP.  According  to  the  applicant,  oteracil  distributes  into  normal  gastrointestinal  tract 
tissues  but  not,  or  only  to  a  limited  extent,  into  tumour  cells,  and  so  it  was  expected  to  reduce  the 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 7/67
 
 
 
unwanted  5-FU  toxicity  to  gastrointestinal 
tissues  witho
u
t  compromising  the  desired  anti-tumour 
effects.  
The  recommended  dose  of  Teysuno  as  combination  therapy  with  cisplatin  is  25  mg  per  body  surface 
area (m2) administered orally, twice daily (BID) for 21 days with a single dose of cisplatin 75 mg/m2 
administered as a 1 to 3 hour intravenous infusion following the morning dose of Teysuno on day 1 of 
each treatment cycle. Each 28-day treatment cycle will include a 7-day recovery period on days 22 to 
28. The comprehensive posology and method of administration for Teysuno is presented in section 4.2 
of the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC). 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Teysuno  contains  three  active  substances,  tegafur,  gimeracil  and  oteracil;  oteracil  in  the  form  of 
potassium salt). The drug product formulation is a hard capsule for oral administration. There are two 
strengths  of  capsules,  15  mg  and  20  mg  (based  on  tegafur  content).  The  capsule  content  is 
proportionally identical for both strengths. 
Teysuno capsules are packaged in opaque white PCTFE/PVC blister film with aluminum foil lidding. 
The  different  capsule  strengths  are  distinguishable  from  each  other  by  different  capsule  colour 
combination  and  different  imprints.  Teysuno  15  mg  capsules  are  in  opaque  white  body  and  opaque 
brown  cap  imprinted  “TC448”  in  grey.  Teysuno  20  mg  capsules  are  in  an  opaque  white  body  and 
opaque white cap imprinted “TC442” in grey.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance  
Tegafur  
Tegafur  is  the  INN  name  of  the  active  substance  with  the  chemical  name  5-Fluoro-1-(2-
tetrahydrofuryl)-2, 4(1H,3H)-pyrimidinedione, corresponding to the molecular formula C8H9FN2O3  and 
relative molecular mass 200.17. Its structural formula is shown below. 
It appears as a white to off-white non hygroscopic crystalline powder, soluble in water. The molecule 
has  one  asymmetric  centre  and  it  is  manufactured  as  a  racemate.  The  pH  of  a  saturated  aqueous 
solution is 4.6. The pKa value is 7.98 and the partition coefficients (1-octanol/water) at pH 2-6 is 0.46 
but  decreases  at  pH>7.  The  molecule  shows  polymorphism;  three  crystalline  forms  are  possible 
however from the synthesis process only the desired form is obtained. 
Manufacture 
An  ASMF  has  been  submitted  for  tegafur.  The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  a  number  of  steps 
including  purification  and  crystallisation  and  it  is  well  described.  Reaction  conditions,  amounts  of 
starting  material,  solvents,  reagents  employed  and  yields  have  been  reported.  A  well  described 
reprocessing, in case tegafur does not comply with the specification, is presented. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 8/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  critical  process  parameters  and  controls  have  been  correctly  discussed.  Tegafur  has  been 
commercialised in the EU for several years and no alerting structure for potential genotoxic impurities 
has been found in the manufacturing process. 
Specification 
The drug substance specification includes tests for description (visual), identification (IR, HPLC), assay 
(HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  loss  on  drying  (Ph.Eur),  heavy  metals 
(Ph.Eur), and residue on ignition (Ph.Eur). 
Batch analysis results of a large number of full-scale batches have been provided. The last 40 of those 
batches  were  tested  according  to  the  current  specification  and  all  of  them  complied  showing  the 
process’  consistency  and  drug  substance  uniformity.  In  addition  results  for  three  recently 
manufactured  commercial  batches  were  included  in  the  dossier.  All  of  them  meet  the  current 
specification. 
Stability 
A total of nine batches have been put into stability and results were presented. All batches were full-
scale and manufactured at the proposed manufacturing site. All of them have been studied under long 
term conditions (25 ± 2 °C /60 ± 5% RH) and intermediate (30 ± 2 °C /65 ± 5% RH) for up to five 
years. Three batches have been studied under accelerated (40 ± 2 °C /75 ± 5% RH) for six months. 
All data have been provided according to ICH Guidelines. After storage for five years at 25°C/60% RH 
and  30°C/65,  no  changes  were  observed  in  all  of  the  tested  items.  After  six  months  storage  at 
40°C/75%  RH  appearance  was  unchanged.  No  trends  were  observed  with  respect  to  tested 
parameters.  No  trends  toward  a  decrease  in  purity could  be  seen.  Although  individual  impurities  are 
not reported, no additional information will be required since no change in total impurities is observed. 
The packaging material is equivalent to that proposed for commercial storage container. 
The  stress  testing  revealed  no  trends  towards  a  decrease  in  purity.  Tegafur  was  not  found  to  be 
photosensitive when exposed to visible and ultraviolet light. On the basis of the provided stability data, 
the proposed re-test period and storage conditions are acceptable. 
In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 1 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
Gimeracil 
Gimeracil  is  the  INN  name  of  the  active  substance  with  the  chemical  name  5-chloro-2,4-
dihydroxypyridine,  corresponding  to  the  molecular  formula  C5H4ClNO2  and  relative  molecular  mass 
145.54. Its structural formula is shown below. 
It  appears  as  a  white  to  off-white,  odourless,  non  hygroscopic  crystalline  powder,  slightly  soluble  in 
water.  Gimeracil  drug  substance  shows  no  optical  rotation.  The  pH  of  a  0.1%  solution  is  3.5.  The 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 9/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
 
molecule  shows  polymorphism;  three  crystalline  forms  are  possible  however  from  the  synthesis 
process only the desired form is obtained. 
Manufacture 
An  ASMF  has  been  submitted  for  gimeracil.  The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  a  single  synthetic 
step followed by a purification step. Reprocessing is foreseen and described in case gimeracil does not 
comply  with  the  specification.  Sufficient  details  have  been  provided  on  the  synthesis  of  gimeracil, 
including  yields,  drying  temperatures,  reaction  times  and  IPCs.  The  critical  process  parameters  and 
controls have been satisfactorily discussed.  
Specification 
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  description  (visual),  melting  point  (Ph.  Eur.), 
identification  (IR,  UV),  absorption  (spectrophotometry),  chloride  (Ph.  Eur.),  sulfate  (Ph.  Eur.),  heavy 
metals  (Ph.  Eur.),  assay  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  water  content 
(Ph.Eur) and residue on ignition (Ph.Eur). 
A risk analysis to assess the potential presence of genotoxic impurities has been provided. Considering 
the  proposed  limit  for  an  impurity  that  can  be  categorized  as  genotoxic  in  the  drug  substance,  the 
maximum  daily  intake  for  this  impurity  and  taking  into  account  the  use  of  the  drug  product  and 
duration of exposure, no additional information will be required. 
Absence of a routine test for microbial quality is sufficiently justified as this is not critical for Gimeracil. 
Batch analysis results of a large number of batches have been provided. Almost all batches were full-
scale.  All  batches  manufactured  according  the  current  process  comply  within  the  proposed 
specification and show good process consistency and product uniformity. 
Stability 
Long-term  and  accelerated  stability  studies  were  performed  using  three  batches  of  gimeracil 
manufactured  at  full  production  scale.  In  addition,  temperature  stress  tests  and  photostability  test 
were  performed  using  at  pilot  scale  gimeracil  batch.  Both  pilot  scale  and  full  scale  manufacture  are 
considered equivalent. 
After storage for 36 months at 25 ± 2 °C /60 ± 5% RH and 30 ± 2 °C /65 ± 5% RH, no changes were 
observed in any of the tested items. After six months storage at 40 ± 2 °C /75 ± 5% RH, appearance 
was unchanged. No trends were observed with respect tested parameters. 
Photostability studies shows gimeracil is be considered stable after exposure to light in solid state. 
In  general,  the  stability  studies  are  in  agreement  with  ICH  Q1A  and  Q1B  Guidelines.  All  results  of 
long-term and accelerated studies meet the proposed specification. 
On  the  basis  of  the  provided  stability  data,  the  claimed  re-test  period  and  storage  conditions  are 
acceptable.  
In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 2 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
Oteracil 
Oteracil  is  the  INN  name  of  the  active  substance  with  the  chemical  name  monopotassium  1,2,3,4-
tetrahydro-2,4-dioxo-1,3,5-triazine-6-carboxylate, corresponding to the molecular formula C4H2KN3O4 
and relative molecular mass 195.17. Its structural formula is shown below. 
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 10/67
 
 
 
                                               
Oteracil is a white crystalline non-hygroscopic powder. It is sparingly soluble in buffer solution (pH 10 
and  12),  slightly  soluble  in  water  and  buffer  solution  (pH  2,  4,  6,  7  and  8),  pH=  4.5.  pKa  was 
determined  to  be  6.6  and  11.8,  which  are  considered  to  be  derived  from  two  imino  groups.  pKa 
derived  from  the  carboxyl  group  was  determined  to  be  1.1.  Oteracil  was  not  distributed  to  the  1-
octanol  phase  and  partitioned  in  the  water  phase  at  all  pH  conditions.  The  molecule  has  not 
asymmetric  carbons.  Pseudo-polymorphic  form  of  hemi-hydrate  exists.  The  drug  substance  is  the 
anhydride form which shows no polymorph. 
Manufacture 
An ASMF has been submitted for oteracil. The reaction scheme has been provided. The manufacturing 
process  consists  of  a  synthetic  step  followed  by  a  purification  step.  Reprocessing  is  foreseen  and 
described in case oteracil does not meet the specification. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  well  described  and  sufficient  details  have  been  provided  regarding 
reaction conditions, amounts of starting material, solvents, reagents employed, yields and IPCs.  
Specification 
The drug substance specification includes tests for description (visual), identification (oteracil: IR, UV-
potassium:  Ph.Eur),  absorption  (spectrophotometry),  assay  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC), 
residual  solvents  (GC),  water  content  (Ph.Eur),  heavy  metals  (Ph.Eur),  and  residue  on  ignition 
(Ph.Eur). 
A risk analysis to assess the potential presence of genotoxic impurities has been provided. Taking into 
account  the  information  presented,  the  presence  of  genotoxic  impurities  is  not  considered  likely. 
Microbial limit test is not included in the proposed specification because the manufacturing process of 
oteracil ensures there is no need for such a test. In addition, microbial quality tests during storage for 
the  accelerated  and  long  term  tests  confirmed  that  the  test  can  be  omitted  from  the  specification. 
Batch  analysis  results  of  six  batches  tested  against  the  current  specification  have  been  provided.  In 
addition  results  of  a  large  number  of  batches  have  been  provided  from  the  development  phase  to 
more recent years. These earlier batches were tested by the previous specifications (according to the 
Japanese  Pharmacopoeia  (JP)).  Data  generated  by  the  analytical  procedures  between  the  previous 
procedure and the current procedure has been compared, and they were concluded to be equivalent. 
All batches complied with the tested specification. 
Stability 
Long-term (25 ± 2 °C /60 ± 5% RH) stability studies were performed using three batches of oteracil. 
Another three batches were studied under accelerated (40 ± 2 °C /75 ± 5% RH) for six months and 
intermediate  conditions  (30±2°C  65±5%RH).  All  batches  were  full-scale  and  manufactured  at  the 
proposed  manufacturing  site  following  the  proposed  process.  The  packaging  material  used  is 
equivalent to the commercial storage container.  
In  addition  forced  degradation  study  was  done  on  a  smaller  scale  batch.  Oteracil  was  found  to  be 
stable  under  elevated  temperatures,  humid  and  light  in  solid-form.  The  photostability  study  was 
performed according to ICH Guideline “Q1B. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 11/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No remarkable changes were observed in the photostability test and the elevated temperature stress 
tests. After storage for 36 months at long term or intermediate conditions, no changes were observed 
in any of the tested parameters. After six months storage at accelerated conditions no trends toward a 
decrease in purity were observed either. All data have been provided according to ICH Guidelines. 
On  the  basis  of  the  provided  stability  data,  the  claimed  re-test  period  and  storage  conditions  are 
acceptable. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
Teysuno  was  developed  as  an  immediate  release  hard  capsule  formulation  and  they  were  originally 
approved  in  Japan  in  1999  (20  and  25  mg).  The  strength  of  Teysuno  is  based  on  the  potency  of 
Tegafur,  because  that  is  the  active  substance  for  oncology  indications.  The  capsules  also  contain 
gimeracil  and  oteracil  potassium  at  specified  molecular  ratio.  Compared  to  Asian  patients,  metabolic 
differences  discovered  in  Western  patients  during  initial  clinical  studies  using  Japanese  commercial 
capsules  showed  that  lower  doses  were  required.  After  evaluating  the  pharmacokinetic  data  from 
these studies, the appropriate dosing and consequently strengths were decided. Reference is made to 
Module 5 for details of these studies. Therefore, a 15 mg capsule was developed. The 15 mg, 20 mg 
and  25  mg  (tegafur  content)  capsules  use  a  common  blend;  the  different  strengths  are  achieved  by 
adjusting  the  fill  weight.  The  15  mg  and  20  mg  strength  was  used  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  study 
S1301/FLAGS. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  wet  granulation.  The  quantitative  formulations  and 
manufacturing processes of the clinical and proposed commercial capsules are the same.  
The dissolution test results show that there is no significant difference among different strengths. 
The drug substance properties that could affect the drug product performance were evaluated during 
pharmaceutical development. Based on studies performed on the three active ingredients, tegafur has 
been shown to be BCS Class I and gimeracil and oteracil have been shown to be Class III.  
The  particle  size  of  drug  substances  can  potentially  affect  the  dissolution  profile  of  drug  products. 
Appropriate  acceptance  criteria  for  particle  size  distribution  during  drug  product  manufacture  were 
established and particle size testing has been included as in-process control in the manufacture.  
In order to establish appropriate conditions of granulation and scale-up factors, the operational factors 
that affect the physical properties of granules were investigated. 
The  compatibility  of  the  three  active  ingredients  as  well  as  of  the  active  ingredients  with  excipients 
was evaluated. The selected excipients and the quantities used are common in oral dosage forms.  
The drug product is packaged in opaque white PCTFE/PVC blister film with aluminium foil lidding. 
Adventitious agents 
Valid Certificates of Suitability (CEPs) for sources of gelatin were provided. 
Lactose  monohydrate  is  certified  by  the  manufacturer  to  be  appropriately  sourced  and  safe  with 
respect to the relevant requirements, and the manufacturer’s certification was provided.  
Magnesium stearate used in Teysuno is of vegetable origin. 
Manufacture of the product 
The drug product is manufactured using a standard wet granulation and capsule filling process. Critical 
steps and controls of intermediates have been identified and holding times have been established. 
Validation will be completed prior to launching in accordance with an agreed protocol. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 12/67
 
 
 
Product Specification 
The release and shelf-life specifications of the finished product include tests and limits for description 
(visual), identification (TLC, HPLC- at release only), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), content 
uniformity (Ph Eur, at release only), dissolution (Ph.Eur) and microbial limit test (Ph.Eur).  
The applicant provided batch analysis results of numerous commercial size batches for both strengths 
and in addition for the 25 mg strength. The specification was modified over time, which is sufficiently 
explained. The results show that all batches met all specifications in place at the time of release.  
Stability of the product 
Stability  studies  have  been  performed  on  three  batches  of  each  strength  stored  in  the  proposed 
commercial  packaging  at  ICH  recommended  long-term  (30  ±  2  °C  /65  ±  5  %  RH),  accelerated 
conditions (40 ± 2 °C/75 ± 5 % RH). Capsules have been studied for up to 24 months in long term 
and for six months in accelerated conditions. 
In  addition  one  batch  of  each  strength  has  been  studied  for  18  months  under  long-term  conditions 
packaged  in  the  intended  container  for  bulk  capsules.  All  batches  tested  were  full  scale  and 
manufactured at the proposed site. 
At  long-term  conditions  no  changes  were  observed.  At  accelerated  conditions  an  increase  was 
observed  for  a  degradation  product.  No  other  changes  were  observed.  Also  no  significant  changes 
were observed in the bulk capsules stability. Results of all batches comply with the specifications.  
No significant changes were observed in the photostability study performed on one batch per strength. 
On the basis of the available results, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions can be granted. 
In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 3 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.4.  Discussion and conclusions on chemical, pharmaceutical and 
biological aspects 
The quality of Teysuno hard gelatin capsules is adequately established. Information on development, 
manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substances  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The 
quality of the active substances is considered sufficiently described and adequately supported by data. 
Sufficient  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  relating  to  development,  manufacture  and 
control  of  the  drug  product  has  been  presented.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
3 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 13/67
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
In in vitro studies, gimeracil selectively inhibited the target enzyme DPD at IC50 = 95 nM and oteracil 
selectively inhibited the target enzyme OPRT with an IC50 value of 4.2 M, whereas the metabolites of 
oteracil did not significantly inhibit activity of enzymes involved in 5-FU metabolism.  
With  regard  to  in  vivo  (animal)  studies,  antitumor  activity  of  Teysuno  was  evaluated  in  rats  bearing 
tumour cells as well as in mice bearing solid tumour fragments. In addition, efficacy of Teysuno was 
evaluated  in  animals  where  treatment  was  started  one  day  after  tumour  implantation  as  well  as  in 
animals where tumours were implanted more than 7 days before start of treatment.   
In  mice  and  rats  bearing  different  tumour  types,  the  optimum  ratio  of  tegafur:gimeracil:oteracil 
producing significant antitumor activity with reduced toxicity was determined to be 1:0.4:1  (1 mg FT : 
0.29  mg  CDHP:  0.977  mg  Oxo).  The  effect  of  tegafur  and  gimeracil  was  most  effective  when  both 
substances  were  simultaneously  administered.  The  optimum  ratio  for  tegafur:gimeracil:oteracil  has 
not been studied in species other than mice and rats. 
In mice bearing various murine tumour types, Teysuno was observed to be consistently more potent 
in  inhibiting  tumour  growth  or  increasing  life  span  than  tegafur  alone  or  the  5-fluorouracil  analogs 
5-FU or UFT. 
In  rats,  oral  treatment  with  Teysuno  showed  significant  antitumor  activity  against  several  kinds  of 
tumours  including,  various  gastric  tumours,  head/neck  tumours  and  breast  cancer  xenografts.  In 
these models, antitumor activity of Teysuno was significantly more effective than UFT (tegafur/uracil 
combination product in a molar ratio of 1:4).  
The  usefulness  of  Teysuno  compared  to  tegafur  was  studied  in  a  rat  tumour  model.  At  doses 
producing  the  same  level  of  adverse  effects,  Teysuno  maintained  higher  concentrations  of  5-FU  in 
plasma, tissues and tumours and more inhibition of intratumoural thymidylate synthase than UFT. In 
addition,  rats  treated  with  Teysuno  showed  higher  levels  of  F-nucleotide  in  tumour  tissue  than  in 
gastrointestinal  tract  tissue.  In  contrast,  levels  of  F-nucleotide  were  similar  in  tumour  tissue  and 
gastrointestinal tract in rats treated with UFT. 
When investigating the anti-tumour activity and toxicity of gimeracil and oteracil alone, for oteracil an 
antitumor  activity  was  only  observed  at  the  highest  dose  of  2000  mg/kg/day.  Since  the  therapeutic 
dose  level  of  both  gimeracil  and  oteracil  were  less  than  20  mg/kg  (tegafur:gimeracil:oteracil  was 
1:0.29:0.977 in mg ratio), it was concluded by the applicant that the induced antitumor activity and 
toxicity  observed  at  therapeutic  dose  levels  has  been  mostly  attributable  to  tegafur  and  not  to 
gimeracil and oteracil. 
In  non  tumour-bearing  rats  and  cynomolgus  monkeys,  addition  of  oteracil  to  FCD  (combination  of 
tegafur and gimeracil) decreased the incidence of FCD-induced diarrhoea. However, in the non-tumour 
bearing rats, gastrointestinal toxicity was only significantly recovered when 2 M instead of 1 M oteracil 
was  added,  suggesting  that  Teysuno  in  its  present  molar  range  might  not  reduce  FCD-induced 
gastrointestinal  toxicity.  On  the  other  hand,  in  a  rat  model  of  primary  colorectal  cancer,  addition  of 
oteracil  significantly  reduced  FCD-induced  gastrointestinal  toxicity  without  affecting  FCD-induced 
antitumor activity. According to the applicant, the reduced gastrointestinal toxicity was considered to 
be most likely related to oteracil-induced suppression of 5-FU phosphorylation.  
Antitumor  activity  of  Teysuno  against  tumour  cell  lines  resistant  to  various  anti-cancer  agents  was 
investigated in mice (data not shown).  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 14/67
 
 
 
 
 
In  two  different  rat  tumour  models,  rats  treated  with  Teysuno  per  oral  administration  or  5-FU  per 
continuous  intravenous  infusion  at  doses  producing  similar  antitumor  activity,  the  adverse  effects 
observed  were  greater  in  animals  treated  by  continuous  venous  infusion  with  5-FU  than  in  animals 
treated with Teysuno.  
Antitumor activity of Teysuno given as a single daily or twice daily divided dose was evaluated in a rat 
tumour model. Antitumor activity of Teysuno given as a twice daily divided dose was similar to once 
daily administration. However, following treatment with a twice daily divided dose, a smaller decrease 
in  haematological  parameters  and  faster  recovery  of  WBC  was  observed,  thus  supporting  a  clinical 
dosing regimen in which an effective dose is divided and administered twice daily. 
The applicant has also carried out a number of studies in vivo in non tumour animal models showing a 
reduced  GI  toxicity  of  Teysuno  when  compared  with  a  combination  lacking  oteracil.  It  is  suggested 
that the mechanism resulting in lower GI toxicity is due to the suppression of the phosphorylation of 
5-FU in normal GI tissues due to oteracil activity.  
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
In vivo, during repeat-dose toxicology studies in the dog, Teysuno and FCD induced melanosis in the 
sclera,  conjunctiva,  skin  and  lymph  nodes.  Dogs  treated  with  5  mg/kg  Teysuno  for  12  consecutive 
days,  displayed  eye  discharge,  conjunctival  hyperaemia,  a  decrease  in  goblet  cells  in  the  palpebral 
conjunctiva,  atrophy  of  the  sebaceous  glands  in  the  eyelid  and  decreased  thickness  of  the  corneal 
epithelium  compared  to  controls.  In  dogs  orally  treated  with  2.5  mg/kg/day  Teysuno  for  5  weeks, 
progression  of  conjunctival  pigmentation  expanded  in  a  circular  manner  from  the  cornea-conjunctiva 
transition  area  to  the  marginal  area,  but  was  only  localized  in  the  conjunctival  epithelium.  In  the 
secondary pharmacology studies, corneal nebula, and corneal and conjunctival pigmentation, following 
treatment with Teysuno, were only observed in dogs and not in rats and monkeys. Hence, conjunctival 
melanosis  induced  by  Teysuno  in  dogs  appeared  to  be  species  specific.  It  progressively  expanded  in 
the  conjunctival  epithelium  following  continuation  of  treatment.  To  evaluate  whether  deposition  of 
melanin  in  the  dog’s  eye  is  dependent  on  tyrosinase  activity,  the  primary  enzyme  involved  in  the 
synthesis  of  melanin  from  tyrosine,  the  applicant  performed  one  in  vitro  study  in  cultured  B16 
melanoma  cells  from  mice.  In  that  study  no  effect  of  5-FU  on  tyrosinase  activity  was  observed.  The 
applicant performed no further studies to evaluate the mechanism underlying 5-FU induced melanosis 
in dogs. The reversibility of the findings in dogs is limited.  
Safety pharmacology programme  
A general nonclinical pharmacology screen was conducted using high dose levels of Teysuno, gimeracil 
and  oteracil.  This  study  was  not  conducted  under  GLP  conditions.  It  covered  a  range  of  in  vivo 
assessments using the mouse, rat and dog and also an in vitro test on the guinea pig ileum. No effects 
on all animal species tested or on the cholinergic, histaminergic or serotonergic systems were reported.  
In  vitro,  in  HEK293  cells  expressing  hERG,  Teysuno  did  not  significantly  block  the  hERG  potassium 
channel at concentrations up to 100 g/ml. 
In  in  vivo  safety  pharmacology  studies  in  rats  and  dogs,  oral  administration  of  Teysuno  at 
supratherapeutic  doses  (30  mg/kg)  did  not  adversely  affect  the  central  nervous,  cardiovascular  and 
respiratory  system  or  gastrointestinal  tract.  It  was  observed  that  addition  of  gimeracil  significantly 
reduced tegafur-induced CNS toxicity studied in mice and dogs.  
At doses highly exceeding (90 mg/kg) the clinically relevant dose, Teysuno induced emesis, decrease 
in  blood  pressure,  transient  changes  in  R  and  T  wave  morphology,  increase  in  urine  volume  and 
excretion of electrolytes in rats and/or dogs. Hence, on central nervous, cardiovascular and respiratory 
system, no significant Teysuno-related effects are expected to be seen at clinically relevant dosages. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 15/67
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions of Teysuno in combination with possible concomitant medications 
(cisplatin,  mitomycin-C,  irinotecan  and  adriamycin)  were  evaluated  in  the  Colon  26  mouse  model  of 
wide-spread  gastrointestinal  carcinoma  metastasis  in  the  peritoneal  cavity  in  CDF1  mice.  The  mice 
were treated with 67% or 80% of the maximum tolerated dose of Teysuno (6.7 or 8.0 mg/kg/day, PO, 
1  dd  for  21  days)  and/or  cisplatin  (10.7  or  12.8  mg/kg,  IV,  1dd  at  day  1),  mitomycin-C  (2.7  or  3.2 
mg/kg/day, IV, 1 dd at day 1, 8 and 15), irinotecan (33.3 or 40.0 mg/kg/day, IV, 1 dd at day 1, 8 and 
15) or adriamycine (6.0 or 7.2 mg//kg/day, IV, 1 dd from day 1 till 3).Results did not indicate possible 
interactions  between  Teysuno  and  the  combinations  tested.  However,  it  was  observed  that  survival 
time  significantly  prolonged  when  animals  were  simultaneously  treated  with  Teysuno  and  cisplatin, 
mitomycin-C,  irinotecan  or  adriamycin  instead  of  with  one  of  the  medicinal  products  alone.  Of  these 
combinations, the clinically used combination Teysuno and cisplatin was the most potent with respect 
to the maximum increase in life span. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  Teysuno  have  been  investigated  in  single  and  repeat-dose  studies  in  mice, 
rats,  rabbits,  dogs  and  monkeys.  Non-labelled  or  radiolabelled  preparations  of  the  Teysuno 
components,  were  administered  and  the  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  of  each 
component  determined.  The  test  articles  were  generally  formulated  in  0.5%  hydroxypropylmethyl 
cellulose.  In  this  section,  all  doses  of  Teysuno  have  been  expressed  as  the  dose  of  tegafur 
administered. In general, in these studies the dose of Teysuno was set at 5 mg/kg as tegafur and the 
animals  were  fed.  In  addition,  gimeracil  was  generally  administered  at  1.45  mg/kg  and  oteracil  at 
4.9 mg/kg.  The  plasma  concentrations  were  determined  using  sufficiently  validated  methods 
employing HPLC or GC-MS or LC-MS/MS. 
Bioavailability 
Oral bioavailability of tegafur and 5-FU was high in fasted rat (107% and 126% respectively) and dog 
(114%  and  85%  respectively).  Low  to  moderate  bioavailability  is  seen  for  gimeracil  and  oteracil  in 
fasted rat (58% and 25% respectively) and dog (55% and 31% respectively).  
Plasma  concentrations  of  tegafur  were  much  higher  than  plasma  concentrations  of  5-FU;  3.4-fold  in 
mice, 25-fold in fasted rats, 66-fold in fed rats, 45-fold in fasted dogs, 48-fold in fed dogs and 15-fold 
in  monkey.  This  effect  was  also  observed  in  blood,  tumour  and  other  tissues.  In  addition,  the 
conversion  from  tegafur  to  5-FU  seemed  to  be  influenced  by  the  feeding  condition  in  rats,  while  this 
has not been observed in dogs. Based on single dose studies in rat and monkey, no conclusion could 
be drawn on the dose-linearity of tegafur, gimeracil, oteracil and 5-FU, since only one or two different 
doses  were  administered.  Yet,  single  dose  studies  in  dog  showed  that  the  exposure  increased 
proportional  to  dose  for  tegafur,  gimeracil  and  oteracil,  while  5-FU  increased  more  than  dose 
proportional.  This  effect  may  be  due  to  the  effect  of  gimeracil  on  5-FU  kinetics.  In  the  toxicokinetic 
studies,  exposure  increased  dose  proportionally  for  tegafur  and  gimeracil  in  rats  and  for  tegafur, 
oteracil and 5-FU in monkeys. A more than proportional increase in systemic exposure was observed 
in rat for 5-FU and oteracil. A less than proportional increase was observed for gimeracil in monkeys. 
Plasma AUC of tegafur showed an increase following repeated dose at the lower doses administered in 
rat suggesting some accumulation. 
Binding  of  tegafur  to  plasma  proteins  was  low  in  rat,  dog  and  human  plasma  (41-56%).  Binding  of 
5-FU, gimeracil and oteracil was lower compared to tegafur for all species examined.  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 16/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
According to the distribution profile the drug-derived radioactivity in blood was low or not detected at 
the  later  time  points,  giving  no  cause  to  expect  extensive  binding  to  erythrocytes.  Accumulation  in 
many  tissues  was  observed  following  administration  of  labelled  tegafur  and  oteracil,  while  no 
accumulation  was  found  after  administration  with  labelled  gimeracil.  Radioactivity  was  measured  in 
the  brain  following  [14C]-FT-S1  administration,  which  indicated  passing  of  the  blood-brain  barrier. 
After [14C]-CDHP-S1 and [14C]-Oxo-S1 administration, radioactivity was also measured in the brain, 
though at relatively low levels and not at all time-points. Low levels of radioactivity were observed in 
the testis, which indicated passing of Teysuno-related material over the blood-testes barrier. Following 
single administration of [14C]-S1 on day 12 and 18 to pregnant rats, radioactivity was transferred to 
the foetus, which suggested placental transfer of all compounds of Teysuno.  
The  distribution  pattern  of  radioactivity  in  all  tissues  following  [14C]-FT  administration  did  not  differ 
from  the  distribution  after  [14C]-FT-S-1  administration  up  to  6  h  after  administration.  However,  24 
and  72  h  after  administration,  the  radioactivity  concentration  in  the  thymus,  pancreas,  spleen, 
mesenteric lymph node, mandibular gland, bone marrow, and large intestine and in males testis and 
prostate  gland  were  lower  in  the  [14C]-FT  treated  animals  compared  to  the  [14C]-FT-S-1  treated 
animals. 
Metabolism 
Tegafur  is  metabolized  to  5-FU  mainly  through  P450  isoenzyme  CYP2A6.  5-FU  is  metabolized  in  liver 
and to a lower degree in other tissues via DPD. FUPA and FBAL are the main metabolites of 5-FU via 
this  pathway.  Oteracil  was  non-enzymatically  degraded  to  5-azauracil  (5-AZU)  by  rat  gastric  fluid, 
whereas it was also converted to CA by microflora in the intestine, and oteracil in the liver can also be 
metabolized  to  several  metabolites  including  CA.  After  oral  administration  of  Teysuno,  the  sulfate 
conjugate  of  gimeracil  accounted  for  5%,  gimeracil  for  60%,  and  other  metabolites  for  28%  of  the 
excreted dose of gimeracil.  
The effect of oteracil and CA on the phosphorylation of 5-FU to fluorouridine triphosphate (FUMP), and 
the consequence of the presence of oteracil and CA for the internal exposure to FUMP was evaluated. 
Oteracil is a selective inhibitor of OPRT. 5-AZU and CA inhibited OPRT only at the highest concentration 
tested (1 × 10-3 M). 
In order to assess interspecies differences and understand the effect of gastric pH and cecal contents 
on  the  interaction  between  oteracil  and  5-FU,  the  possible  effects  of  changing  gastric  pH  values  and 
cecal  content  due  to  any  relevant  circumstance  (including  the  use  of  antibiotics)  on  the  internal 
exposure  to  5-FU  and  FUMP  were  evaluated.  Increasing  pH  in  the  stomach  resulted  in  increased 
plasma concentrations of oteracil, indicating inter-individual variability in oteracil degradation. 
Excretion 
Excretion of tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil was only assessed in rat. Following oral administration of 
labelled tegafur and gimeracil to rat, the majority of the radioactivity was excreted in urine. Following 
oral  administration  of  labelled  oteracil,  most  radioactivity  was  excreted  via  urine  in  fasted  rats. 
However, in fed rats highest excretion was found in faeces. Excretion of all 3 components of Teysuno 
(tegafur,  gimeracil  and  oteracil)  and  their  associated  degradation  products  was  complete  by  72  hrs 
(>90% excretion); nearly all radioactivity was excreted within the first 24 h postdose. Excretion was 
not  affected  by  repeated  administration.  This  has  been  in  agreement  with  the  relatively  rapid 
elimination from plasma. Excretion in the bile was low (1.0-4.3%). Radioactivity was also measured in 
milk  following  administration  of  the  labelled  components,  which  suggested  that  all  components  of 
Teysuno are transferred into milk. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 17/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interactions 
The  pharmacokinetic  drug  interaction  potential  of  all  of  the  components  of  Teysuno  with  co-
administered compounds was assessed in a variety of in vitro and in vivo studies in rats. 
In vitro studies evaluated the ability of tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil FT to inhibit human cytochrome 
P450  isoforms,  in  particular  for  CYP1A1/2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2C8/9,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6,  CYP2E1  and 
CYP3A4.  Tegafur  was  found  to  inhibit  CYP2A6  to  some  extent  (IC50  was  3.11  mM  (Ki  1.64  mM)). 
Gimeracil and oteracil did not show inhibitory effects on these CYP isoenzymes. 
Induction of tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil for CYP2B6, CYP2C8 and CYP3A4/5 was found to be small. 
No information is available for other important isoenzymes.  
In  vivo,  co-administration  of  flucytosine  (FC)  with  fluoropyrimidine  agents  increased  the  plasma 
concentration  of  5-FU  compared  to  that  after  single  treatment  with  each  compound  alone.  Co-
administration of Teysuno to other 5-FU producing agents resulted in increased 5-FU concentrations, 
In investigations in rabbits with induced liver injury an increase of AUC and half-life of FT, CDHP and 
Oxo  was  observed.  The  AUC  of  5-FU  decreased  in  one  liver  injury  model,  while  it  increased  in  the 
other.  T½  of  5-FU  was  increased  in  both  models.  In  rats  with  induced  liver  injury  following 
administration of Teysuno, AUC and T½ of FT were increased. The AUC of 5-FU was decreased and T½ 
was  increased.  The  kinetic  parameters  of  gimeracil  and  oteracil  were  unaffected.  Studies  in  rabbits 
with renal failure showed higher plasma concentrations of 5-FU, gimeracil and oteracil. 
2.3.3.  Toxicology 
The  toxicity  of  Teysuno,  gimeracil  and  oteracil  was  studied  in  a  comprehensive  series  of  studies 
designed  to  investigate  single-dose  and  repeat-dose  toxicity,  genotoxicity,  carcinogenicity  and 
reproductive  toxicity.  In  addition,  a  number  of  studies  were  conducted  to  explore  the  antigenic 
potential of all 3 compounds, and the immunotoxic potential of Teysuno. Mechanistic studies to further 
investigate  findings  from  the  general  toxicity  studies  (e.g.,  bone  marrow  toxicity  and  skin  lesions) 
were also conducted, as well as studies to characterize the toxicity of various metabolites/degradants 
and impurities.  
Single dose toxicity  
The  single-dose  (acute)  oral  toxicity  of  TEYSUNO  was  investigated  in  the  mouse,  rat  and  dog.  The 
single-dose  oral  toxicity  of  gimeracil  and  oteracil  was  investigated  separately  in  the  rat  and  dog.  An 
additional single-dose study, examining the combined effect of tegafur and gimeracil, was conducted 
in the rat. The results of the single-dose studies are summarised in the table below. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 18/67
 
 
 
Table 1: Single-Dose Toxicity Studies. 
The acute toxicity of oral TEYSUNO is considered to be due to the FT component, which is a prodrug of 
the  cytotoxic  agent  5-FU.  The  maximum  tolerated  dose  was  220  mg/kg  in  mice  and  rats  and 
35 mg/kg in dogs. Mortalities generally occurred at least 7 days after dosing. The oral LD50 value was 
estimated to be about 550 mg/kg in mice and rats and 55 mg/kg in dogs. The deaths were considered 
to  be  a  consequence  of  changes  to  the  immune  system  resulting  in  disorders  of  the  respiratory, 
lymphatic  and  hematopoietic  system  and  bacterial  infection.  A  finding  specific  for  the  dog  was  the 
occurrence  of  corneal  opacities  (associated  with  a  thickening  of  the  corneal  epithelium)  at  the  lethal 
dose levels.  
The inherent acute oral toxicity of gimeracil and oteracil is low. In the tested dose-range in rats and 
dogs  (up  to  2000  mg),  there  were  no  deaths,  and  overt  symptoms  were  limited  to  diarrhoea/loose 
faeces and white crystals in the urine on the day of administration. 
Repeat dose toxicity  
Repeat-dose  oral  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  rats  (gavage),  dogs  (capsules)  and  Cynomolgus 
monkeys  (gavage).  The  toxic  effects were  essentially  the  same  as  those  observed  in  the  single-dose 
toxicity studies and were associated with the cytotoxic effect of 5-FU on cell proliferation. This effect 
led to atrophy of the male sex organs and the lymphatic tissues, decreased cellularity of bone marrow 
and general disruption of the immune system. These effects recovered or tended to recover during the 
5-weeks recovery period. Such cytotoxic-type changes were not apparent in the gimeracil and oteracil 
repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  in  the  rat  and  dog  with  the  possible  exception  of  mild  haematological 
changes consisting of decreases in red blood cell parameters seen in the oteracil dog studies.  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 19/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects  on  the  skin  were  observed  in  rats  and  dogs,  but  not  in  monkeys.  In  the  rat,  these  effects 
consisted of keratosis of the foot pad  and tail, which progressed with longer term dosing to areas of 
haemorrhage,  ulceration  and  necrosis.  Co-administration  of  vitamin  B6  with  Teysuno  was  able  to 
ameliorate  but  not  prevent  the  appearance  of  skin  lesions  in  these  species.  In  the  dog,  a  marked 
aggravation of crusts all over the body was seen in the premature decedents; other changes, seen at 
the  highest  dose  in  the  first  52-week  study,  comprised  dermal  erosions,  purulence  and  hair  loss. 
These  effects  on  the  skin  recovered  or  tended  to  recover  during  the  5-weeks  recovery  period.  A 
change  specific  to  the  rat  was  a  degeneration  and  disruption  of  the  incisor  ameloblasts  leading  to 
irreversible teeth abnormalities. This effect was considered not relevant for human. 
In  dogs,  toxic  effects  were  primarily  related  to  the  deposition  of  melanin,  grossly  in  the  sclera, 
conjunctiva, lymph nodes and skin, without safety margin for human. Toxic effects were observed on 
the  eye  (atrophy  and  vascularisation  of  the  cornea,  hyperaemia  of  the  bulbar  conjunctiva,  ocular 
discharge,  exposure  of  the  nictate  membrane),  skin  (crusts/scabs)  and  lymph  nodes  (enlargement). 
These effects diminished upon cessation of treatment. The changes to the eye were generally confined 
to the dog, although a dose-independent increase in cataract incidence was present among male rats 
in  the  carcinogenicity  study.  In-vitro,  5-FU  did  not  have  any  effect  upon  the  melanin  synthetic 
pathway, nor on melanin incorporation into keratinocytes and so the mechanism remains unclear.  
No noteworthy abnormal findings were observed on cardiovascular parameters in dogs and monkeys, 
including changes in heart weight, heart rate or ECG parameters (e.g. prolongation of PR-, QRS- and 
QT-interval).  
Slightly increased liver weights were observed in rats, dogs and monkeys with a small safety margin 
for  human.  These  effects  were  accompanied  by  pigmentation  in  dogs  and  single  cell  necrosis  in 
monkeys.  
Teysuno produced kidney toxicity in rats, dogs and monkeys, leading to increased excretion of protein 
sodium, potassium and chloride without safety margin. Histopathological changes were only observed 
in  rats  and  monkeys.  In  rats,  these  changes  consisted  of  glomerulosclerosis,  tubular  damage  and 
interstitial  changes.  These  effects  were  reversible.  In  the  monkey,  these  were  described  as 
glomerulonephritis  and  a  degeneration  of  renal  tubules  in  a  single  study,  but  reversibility  was  not 
assessed. These effects were considered most likely a consequence of the excretion of large quantities 
of parent compound and/or metabolite(s) leading to aciduria and stone formation in the kidney and/or 
the urinary bladder. White turbid urine, attributed to excretion of parent compound and/or metabolites, 
was  seen  in  the  rat  (Teysuno,  gimeracil  and  oteracil)  and  dog  (gimeracil  and  oteracil),  but  not  the 
monkey.  The  effects  of  slight  crystalluria  and  crystal  deposition on  normal  kidneys  are  considered  to 
be reversible upon cessation of treatment.   
Dose-dependent decreases in the gastrointestinal toxicity were observed up to an oteracil molar ratio 
of  1,  (1  tegafur:0.4  gimeracil:1  oteracil)  with  ratios  of  oteracil  above  1  reducing  the  anti-tumour 
activity  of  the  combination  of  tegafur  and  gimeracil  (see  section  on  pharmacodynamics).  In  the 
repeated-dose toxicity studies, gastrointestinal toxicity has been found in monkeys, but not in rats and 
dogs.  Based  on  slight  irritation  of  the  gastrointestinal  mucosa  in  the  13-week  monkey  study,  the 
NOAEL was identified as 2 mg/kg/day (24 mg/m2/day).  
Genotoxicity 
Teysuno,  gimeracil  and  oteracil  were  investigated  for  genotoxic  potential  in  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo 
systems.  For  in  vitro  studies,  as  well  as  the  parent  molecules,  the  possible  genotoxic  potential  of 
metabolites  of  the  compounds  was  investigated  by  incubation  with  the  rat  liver  microsome  fraction 
(S9). The in vitro assays were a bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) test and a chromosomal aberration 
test in Chinese hamster lung cells; the in vivo assay was a mouse micronucleus test. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 20/67
 
 
 
In vitro, Teysuno was not mutagenic in bacteria but clastogenic in Chinese hamster lung cells. The in-
vivo clastogenic potential of Teysuno was investigated in mice. Because of the toxic effect of Teysuno 
on the bone marrow function, no data could be obtained in on the incidence of micronucleated cells in 
the animals given more that 13.8 mg/kg Teysuno. In the micronucleus test using the peripheral blood, 
clastogenic effects were observed at 13.8 mg/kg and 62.5 mg/kg, but these were not dose dependent. 
Gimeracil  was  negative  in  both  the  bacterial  reverse  mutation  test  and  the  chromosome  aberration 
test  both  in  the  presence  and  absence  of  metabolic  activation  indicating  that  gimeracil  is  neither 
mutagenic nor clastogenic in vitro and in vivo. 
Oteracil  was  negative  in  the  reverse  mutation  test  and  positive  in  the  chromosome  aberration  test 
both  in  the  absence  of  metabolic  activation  following  48-hour  continuous  exposure  indicating  that 
oteracil is not mutagenic but is clastogenic in vitro, but not in vivo. 
A  metabolite  of  oteracil,  5-AZU,  was  also  found  to  be  clastogenic  in  vitro.  It  is  not  known  if  the 
clastogenicity of Teysuno was caused by the tegafur or oteracil component or both, but only Teysuno 
was found to be mildly clastogenic in vivo. 
Carcinogenicity 
The 2-year studies in both mice and rats were both preceded by dose range finding studies of 4 week 
duration in the mouse and 13-week duration in both the mouse and rat. In all studies, Teysuno was 
administered as a dietary admixture. Separate carcinogenicity studies with oteracil and gimeracil were 
not performed. 
The  purpose  of  the  4-week  study  in  mice  was  to  evaluate  the  toxicity  of  Teysuno  in  mice  when 
administered in the diet to provide dose level selection information for a 13-week mouse toxicity study. 
Due to the marked effect on weight gain at 88 ppm, a top dose of 79 ppm was recommended for the 
13-week mouse dietary toxicity study. The purpose of 13-week study was to evaluate the toxicity of 
TEYSUNO  in  mice  when  administered  in  the  diet  over  13  weeks  and  to  provide  dose  level  selection 
information  for  the  mouse  carcinogenicity  study.  In  the  13-week  mouse  study,  doses  of  9,  26  and 
79 ppm were administered. The same dose levels (9, 26 and 79 ppm) were administered in the 2-year 
mouse study investigating 50 animals/sex/dose. 
The  purpose  of  the  13-week  study  was  to  provide  dose  level  selection  information  for  the  rat 
carcinogenicity when TEYSUNO was administered in the diet over 13 weeks, doses of 0,  13, 53, 106 
and  211 ppm  were  administered.  Due  to  the  observed  effects  on  body  and  thymic  weights  in  the 
13-week study, a top dose of 145 ppm as well as doses of 13 ppm and 44 ppm was administered in 
the 2-year rat study investigating 10 animals /sex/dose. 
Both 2-year carcinogenicity studies did not reveal any evidence for a carcinogenic effect of Teysuno in 
these species. In rats, an increased incidence of cataracts was observed in the males at 8 mg/kg/day. 
In the shorter, 26- and 52-week repeated dose toxicity studies, effects on the eye have, thus far, only 
been observed in dogs.  
Reproduction Toxicity 
Fertility studies and embryonic development embryo-foetal studies in rats and perinatal and embryo-
foetal  development  studies  in  rabbits  were  carried  out.  The  studies  did  not  include  a  toxicokinetic 
assessment  and  the  number  of  animals  (litters)  used  for  embryo-foetal  assessment  in  rabbits  was 
lower than the recommended. Dose administration period was also 1 day less than the recommended 
by  ICH  S  5  (R2)  guidelines.  The  applicant  has  performed  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity 
studies assessment separately for Teysuno, gimeracil and oteracil.  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 21/67
 
 
 
To investigate the fertility and early embryonic development,  
- 
Teysuno  was  administered  orally  by  gavage  to  groups  of  24  male  and  24  female  Crj:CD(SD) 
rats at doses of 0, 1, 4 and 7 mg/kg/day (0, 6, 24 and 42 mg/m2/day).  
-  Gimeracil was administered orally by gavage to groups of 24 male and 24 female Crj:CD(SD) 
rats at doses of 0, 80, 400 and 2000 mg/kg/day. Males were dosed for 63 days before mating, 
during mating and until the day before necropsy (98 days of treatment). Females were dosed 
for 14 days before mating, during mating and continuing to GD 7, then subject to necropsy on 
GD 20.  
-  Oteracil  was  administered  orally  by  gavage  to  groups  of  up  to  10  male  or  10  female 
Crj:CD(SD)  rats  at  doses  of  0,  400  and  2000  mg/kg/day  in  a  series  of  3  experiments.  In 
Experiment  1,  mated  females  were  dosed  from  GD  0  to  7  and  then  examined  on  GD  20.  In 
Experiment 2, females were dosed for 14 days pre-mating until the day before copulation with 
untreated males and then examined on GD 20. In Experiment 3, males were dosed for 28 days 
pre-mating  and  during  mating  with  untreated females;  the  untreated  females  were  examined 
on GD 20. 
- 
Teysuno was administered orally to groups of 15 pregnant Kbl:NZW rabbits from GD 6 to 18 at 
doses of 0, 0.5, 1 and 1.5 mg/kg/day (0, 6, 12 and 18 mg/m2/day). 
The NOEL for Teysuno regarding general toxicity to parental male and female rats was 1 mg/kg/day, 
which is identical to that found in the repeated dose toxicity. Teysuno showed no effect on male and 
female  fertility,  since  time  to  copulation,  incidence  of  matings  and  number  of  pregnancies  were 
unaffected in the tested  dose range (up to 7 mg/kg/day). However, administration at any time after 
conception  resulted  in  a  range  of  external,  visceral,  and  skeletal  foetal  abnormalities  at  doses  of 
7 mg/kg/day. Based on these findings, the NOEL of oral administration of Teysuno in rats for male and 
female fertility was 7 mg/kg/day and that for embryo-foetal development was 3 mg/kg/day. There is 
therefore a high risk for developmental toxicity at clinical doses, primarily due to tegafur (5-FU). 
For gimeracil the NOEL was 400 mg/kg/day for general toxicity to parental male and female rats. With 
respect  to  CDHP  there  was  no  concern  regarding  the  fertility  of  human  at  therapeutic  doses  of 
Teysuno.  
For  oteracil  the  NOEL  was  80  mg/kg/day  for  general  toxicity  to  parental  male  and  female  rats  and 
2000 mg/kg/day for fertility. Therefore, there was no concern for oteracil regarding human fertility at 
therapeutic doses of Teysuno. However, pre-implantation and early embryonic stages of rat pregnancy 
are susceptible periods for embryotoxicity of oral oteracil administration. 
In order to evaluate the embryo-foetal development,  
- 
Teysuno was administered orally to groups of 32 to 36 pregnant Crj:CD(SD) rats from GD 7 to 
17 at doses of 0, 1, 3, 5 and 7 mg/kg/day (0, 6, 18, 30 and 42 mg/m2/day). 
-  Gimeracil was administered orally to groups of 37 to 38 pregnant Crj:CD(SD) rats from GD 7 to 
17 at doses of 0, 80, 400 and 2000 mg/kg/day. 
-  Oteracil was administered orally to groups of 37 to 38 pregnant Crj:CD(SD) rats from GD 7 to 
17 (caesarean evaluation on GD 20) at doses of 0, 20, 100 and 500 mg/kg/day.  
- 
In a teratology study, Teysuno was administered orally by gavage to groups of 5 to 7 pregnant 
Kbl:NZW rabbits at doses of 0, 3 and 6 mg/kg/day in four experiments. Experiment 1, 
pregnant females were dosed from GD 8 to 9; Experiment 2 from GD 10 to 11; Experiment 3, 
GD 12 to 13,; Experiment 4 from GD 14 to 15. CDHP was administered orally to groups of 14 - 
15 pregnant Kbl:NZW rabbits from GD 6 to 18 at doses of 0, 200, 400 and 800 mg/kg/day and 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 22/67
 
 
 
 
Oxo was administered orally to groups of 13 to 14 pregnant Kbl:NZW rabbits from GD 6 to 18 
at doses of 0, 100, 200 and 400 mg/kg/day. 
In  line  with  the  results  mentioned  above  the  NOEL  regarding  embryo-foetal  development  was 
3 mg/kg/day  and  there  is  high  risk  for  developmental  toxicity  at  clinical  dose.  In  rabbits,  the  NOEL 
value for maternal  toxicity  and  early embryonic  development  was  1  mg/kg/day  corresponding  to  the 
one in the rat. Following oral administration of Teysuno during divided periods during organogenesis, a 
dose of 2 mg/kg/day appeared maternally tolerated in early pregnancy (GD 6 to 10), but not at later 
stages.  
The  NOEL  for  early  embryo-foetal  development  was  2  mg/kg/day  (GD  6  to  10),  and  less  than 
2 mg/kg/day during later stages. In early stages embryo-lethality predominated and, in later stages, 
teratogenicity. 
There  was  no  effect  of  CDHP  on  embryo-foetal  development.  The  placenta’s  were  unaffected.  The 
NOEL was 400 mg/kg/day regarding maternal toxicity. 
For oteracil, the NOEL in the rat was 100 mg/kg/day during organogenesis, 20 mg/kg/day regarding 
embryo-foetal development and 500 mg/kg/day regarding the F2 offspring.  
Regarding prenatal and postnatal development, including maternal function studies administering 
- 
Teysuno orally by gavage to groups of 21 to 24 female Crj:CD(SD) rats (GD 17 until PND 21) 
at doses of 0, 1, 4 and 7 mg/kg/day (0, 6, 24 and 42 mg/m2/day),  
-  Gimeracil orally by gavage to groups of 23 to 24 female Crj:CD(SD) rats (GD 17 - PND 21) at 
doses of 0, 80, 400 and 2000 mg/kg/day.  
-  Oteracil  orally  by  gavage  to  groups  of  23  to  24  female  Crj:CD(SD)  rats  (GD  17  -  PND  2)  at 
doses of 0, 20, 100 and 500 mg/kg/day  
-  Oteracil  orally  by  gavage  to  groups  of  23  to  24  female  Crj:CD(SD)  rats  (GD  17  -  PND  21)  at 
doses  of  0  and  2000  mg/kg/day  in  order  to  detect  toxic  levels  that  the  previous  study  doses 
failed to identify  
were performed. 
The  three  components  of  Teysuno,  tegafur,  gimeracil,  and  oteracil,  are  excreted  in  the  milk  of 
lactating  rats  (see  pharmacokinetics).  For  Teysuno,  in  the  peri-and  post-natal  study  in  rats,  body 
weight was slightly reduced in the late stages of pregnancy and early lactation and food consumption 
was  reduced  in  late  pregnancy.  No  effects  were  seen  on  gestation  length,  delivery  or  nursing 
conditions. In the F1 offspring, suppression in body weight and lower organs weights (kidneys, brain, 
heart, lungs, ovaries) were observed at 4 mg/kg/day and higher. Based on these findings, the NOEL 
values  in  the  rat  were  4  mg/kg/day  for  maternal  toxicity  during  late  pregnancy  and  throughout 
lactation and 1 mg/kg/day for late foetal and postnatal development. There were no effects on the F2 
offspring. 
For gimeracil, the NOEL was 400 mg/kg/day regarding maternal toxicity and 2000 mg/kg/day for late 
foetal  and  postnatal  development.  The  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits  showed  that  gimeracil  did  not 
contribute to the toxic effects of Teysuno on reproduction. 
Based  on  these  findings,  it  can  be  concluded  that  there  is  a  risk  for  reproduction  toxicity  when 
administering  Teysuno  in  pregnant  women.  The  effect  of  Teysuno  on  reproduction  are  considered  to 
be primarily due to the tegafur component of Teysuno, which in is a prodrug of 5-FU. Gimeracil did not 
cause  any  reproductive  toxic  effects  although  it  elicited  maternal  toxicity  at  high  doses  in  rats  and 
rabbits (400 mg/kg/day). These doses are not relevant for human. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 23/67
 
 
 
 
 
Oteracil  did  not  affect  male  and  female  fertility,  but  caused  external,  visceral  and  skeletal  foetal 
abnormalities in rats and rabbits similar to that observed with Teysuno. Based on the ratio of AUC0-
24h value for oteracil in rats at the NOEL 20 mg/kg/day for embryo-foetal and postnatal development, 
and AUCinf in human at the therapeutic dose of Teysuno of 30 mg/m2 twice daily, a safety margin of 
about 25 can be calculated. This means that, based on the rat studies. Oteracil does not significantly 
contribute to the toxic effects of Teysuno on embryo-foetal and postnatal development.  
In lactating rats, considerable amounts of Teysuno and its metabolites were found in milk. Based on 
these findings, Teysuno is contraindicated in pregnancy and lactation.  
Studies  in  juvenile  animals  have  not  been  provided.  This  has  been  considered  acceptable,  since 
Teysuno is not recommended for children under 18 years. 
Local Tolerance 
Specific  studies  on  local  tolerance  have  not  been  submitted  since  Teysuno  is  intended  for  oral 
administration. 
Other toxicity studies 
The  applicant  has  submitted  a  series  of  studies  in  order  to  examine  the  antigenic  potential  and 
immunotoxicological  effects  of  Teysuno  and  some  of  its  individual  constituents.  Studies  were  also 
carried  out  to  evaluate  potential  mechanisms  of  action.  Genetic  toxicity  and  repeat-dose  toxicology 
studies were undertaken on some of the major metabolites and impurities of Teysuno. 
Immunotoxicity 
Due  to  its  suppression  of  the  bone  marrow,  Teysuno  can  be  expected  to  suppress  immune  function. 
This is a direct consequence of its pharmacodynamic mode of action. 
Antigenicity 
No  evidence  of  sensitisation  was  found  in  antigenicity  studies.  Studies  were  done  to  investigate 
whether dermal side effects of Teysuno observed in clinical trials, i.e. eruption and reddening, could be 
due  to  delayed  type  allergic  reactions,  but  these  did  not  provide  an  explanation  for  this  clinical 
observation. 
Metabolites 
It is plausible that part of the toxicity of oteracil is due to its metabolite Cyanuric acid. This metabolite 
was  not  genotoxic  in  a  bacterial  genotoxicity  test  and  an  in  vitro  chromosomal  aberration  test.  Its 
major  toxicity  at  single  or  repeated  intraperitoneal  administration  in  rats  was  renal  toxicity  due  to 
kidney  injury  due  to  crystalluria,  accompanied  by  the  secondary  consequences  of  this  renal  toxicity. 
Furthermore,  the  intraperitoneal  route  of  administration  caused  local inflammations  of  several  organs 
(capsules  of  spleen  and  liver,  intestine).  The  NOAEL  of  the  renal  toxicity  in  a  4  week  repeated  dose 
intraperitoneal  study  in  male  rats  was  100  mg/kg/day.  However,  it  is  noted  that  at  this  dose 
crystalluria  did  occur,  therefore  more  prolonged  administration  of  this  dose  might  also  cause  renal 
toxicity. 
Effect of oteracil on the toxicity of Teysuno 
The  difference  in  toxicity  of  the  combination  of  tegafur  with  CDHP  (FCD)  and  of  the  full  combination 
(Teysuno)  was  compared  in  a  number  of  oral  dog  studies  and  an  oral  Cynomolgus  monkey  study. 
Qualitatively, Teysuno and FCD showed the same – FT-related – toxicity, However, quantitatively FCD 
was  more  toxic  than  Teysuno.  Dependent  on  dosing  schedule  and  treatment  duration,  toxicity  of 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 24/67
 
 
 
 
Teysuno  tended  to  appear  later,  at  higher  doses,  was  less  extensive,  and  recovered  earlier  (in  some 
cases already during treatment). It can be concluded that addition of oteracil attenuated the FT-related 
toxicity in both dogs and monkeys. 
Impurities 
Genotoxity studies, single dose toxicity studies and repeated dose toxicity studies were submitted for 
three impurities (data not shown). 
Toxicity of Teysuno combined with other medicines 
The combination of Teysuno (daily oral dose for 2 weeks) with Taxotere (one IV dose) showed mainly 
evidence for addition of effects of the two single formulations. The combination of Teysuno (daily oral 
dose for 2 weeks) with cisplatin (one IV dose) showed mainly evidence of addition of effects, although 
the effect on blood cells may show some potentiation. The combination of Teysuno (daily oral dose for 
2 weeks) with oxaliplatin (one IV dose) showed mainly additivity of effect, but an enhancement of the 
hepatotoxicity of oxaliplatin in rats could not be excluded. However, an additional experiment (without 
reported  individual  data)  suggested  that  this  potential  enhancement  may  be  reduced  by  intermittent 
administration (treatment cycli of 2 weeks in rats were separated by 1 week recovery periods). 
2.3.4.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant has submitted an ERA based on the EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 guideline (EMEA, 2006). 
The yearly amount consumed was estimated using a total patient dose of 9349 mg. The gastric cancer 
incidence rate in the EU (at the median age of diagnosis) has been calculated with 12 in 100,000. The 
fraction  of  advanced  stages  of  gastric  cancer  (in  all  gastric  cancer  counts)  would  be  0.7.  Based  on 
these  refinements,  the  Fpen  amounted  to  0.000017723.  The  PECSURFACEWATER  values  for  tegafur, 
gimeracil  and  oteracil  monopotassium  salt  have  been  calculated  to  be  0.00106  μg/L,  0.00030  μg/L 
and  0.00104  μg/L,  respectively,  for  the  years  of  projected  maximum  exposure  (2017-2020).  These 
values are below the action limit of 0.01 μg/L. Therefore a Phase II risk assessment was not required. 
The  log  Kow  values  of  tegafur,  gimeracil  and  oteracil  monopotassium  salt  were  all  <4.5,  such  that 
they do not present a hazard with respect to bioaccumulation. Therefore, all three drug substances are 
not  classifiable  as  Persistent,  Bioaccumulative  and  Toxic  (PBT)  nor  as  very  Persistent  and  very 
Bioaccumulative (vPvB) substances. In conclusion, tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil monopotassium salt 
are  considered  to  be  of  negligible  risk  to  the  environment  from  the  use  of  Teysuno  15  and  20  mg 
capsules for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer given in combination with cisplatin, when used 
in accordance with the SmPC and the Package Leaflet. 
2.3.5.  Discussion and conclusions on non-clinical aspects 
A  series  of  studies  was  submitted  to  evaluate  the  optimal  ratio  of  gimeracil  and  oteracil  with  tegafur 
using  mice  and  rats  bearing  different  tumour  types  and  by  testing  the  efficacy  and  toxicity.  The  final 
optimal  combination  of  tegafur:gimeracil:oteracil  was  identified  as  1:0.4:1.  Results  of  these  studies 
reveal  that  this  combination  contains  an  optimal  concentration  of  gimeracil  that  enhance  the  anti-
tumour  effects  of  tegafur.  Lower  concentrations  of  gimeracil  did  not  show  increased  tumour  activity. 
The  oteracil  ratio  selected  has  reported  a  decrease  of  GI  toxicity,  without  compromising  anti-tumour 
effects. Teysuno showed in in vivo models a higher potency, when compared to treatment with UFT, FT 
or 5-FU, against all tumour cell lines in mouse xenograft models. There is no data regarding if FT on its 
own displays any antitumor activity. 
A  number  of  in  vivo  studies  in  non  tumour  animal  models  were  submitted  showing  a  reduced  GI 
toxicity  of  Teysuno  when  compared  with  a  combination  lacking  oteracil.  It  is  suggested  that  the 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 25/67
 
 
 
mechanism  resulting  in  lower  GI  toxicity  is  due  to  the  suppression  of  the  phosphorylation  of  5-FU  in 
normal GI tissues due to oteracil activity. Results of these studies reveal that Teysuno is a product that 
combines an enhanced antitumor activity and concomitantly reduces the adverse effects of tegafur in 
the GI tissues.  
Results  of  studies  that  evaluate  secondary  pharmacology  reveal  that  melanosis  was  present  after 
administration of Teysuno and CFT. Further studies failed to show a connection between melanosis and 
a possible induction via tyrosinase. The reversibility of the findings in dogs is limited; nevertheless, this 
concern has been included in the RMP. 
The  applicant  has  performed  several  assessments  of  safety  pharmacology  without  GLP  compliant 
assays. The results of these studies did not raise any concern. 
The  applicant  has  submitted  studies  to  evaluate  Teysuno  administration  with  possible  concomitant 
medications  (cisplatin,  mitomycin-C,  irinotecan  and  adriamycin).  Results  from  the  studies  did  not 
indicate  possible  interactions  between  Teysuno  and  the  combinations  tested  but  revealed  that  the 
cisplatin  combination  resulted  in  an  enhanced  anti-tumour  activity  compared  to  mitomycin  C, 
irinotecan and adriamycin. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  Teysuno  were  investigated  in  single  and  repeat-dose  studies  in  mice,  rats, 
rabbits,  dogs  and  monkeys  using  non-labelled  or  radiolabelled  preparations  of  the  Teysuno 
components  and  the  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  of  each  component  was 
determined. 
Plasma  concentrations  of  tegafur  were  much  higher  than  plasma  concentrations  of  5-FU  which 
suggested that only a small part of tegafur was metabolised into 5-FU. 
Binding  of  tegafur  to  plasma  proteins  was  low  which  suggested  that  some  variation  in  the  binding 
capacity  of  plasma  proteins  did  not  have  a  major  impact  on  the  concentration  of  free  drug  in  the 
plasma.  
Oteracil is a selective inhibitor of OPRT. Inhibition of OPRT by CA, a major metabolite of oteracil, was 
only  detected  at  very  high  concentrations  of  no  clinical  relevance.  CA is  expected  to  have  little  effect 
on 5-FU metabolic enzymes in humans and would not have affected the internal exposure to FUMP or 
the anti-tumour activity. However, oteracil has been added to decrease the unwanted gastrointestinal 
toxicity. Therefore, the site of action of oteracil, 5-AZU and CA is the gastrointestinal tract and thus the 
concentration  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract  would  be  of  more  importance  than  the  systemic 
concentration.  The  bioavailability  of  oteracil  has  been  low  (25%).  The  intestinal  concentration  of 
oteracil  and  its  metabolites  are  expected  to  be  high  enough  to  inhibit  OPRT.  The  unidentified  oteracil 
metabolite(s)  are  pharmacologically  and  toxicologically  inactive  compounds  at  clinical  dosages  based 
on two rat preclinical studies.  
It is expected that oteracil is degraded to a higher percentage under fasted conditions compared to fed 
conditions  due  to  a  lower  gastric  pH.  However,  under  fasted  conditions  the  urinary  excreted  dose  is 
higher than under fed conditions. The lower urinary excretion is caused by a decrease in bioavailability 
due to delayed gastric emptying and the effect of food on absorption. However, the urinary clearance 
is equal between fed and fasted conditions, indicating that only the bioavailability is affected. 
Increasing pH in the stomach resulted in increased plasma concentrations of oteracil, indicating inter-
individual  variability  in  oteracil  degradation  (e.g.  higher  plasma  oteracil  levels  in  elderly  due  to 
increased gastric pH). However, in humans no gastric pH effect could be observed. The mechanism is 
unknown.  Furthermore,  after  oral  administration  oteracil  did  not  have  any  effect  on  the  tumour 
distribution  of  FUMP,  indicating  that  oteracil  only  affect  the  conversion  of  5-FU  to  FUMP  in  the  gastro 
intestinal  tract  (also  the  desired  site  of  action  to  reduce  gastro-intestinal  tract  toxicity  of  5-FU.  The 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 26/67
 
 
 
applicant  did  not  investigate  the  effect  of  altered  gut  flora  on  the  kinetics  of  5-FU.  Increased 
concentration of oteracil could in theory lead to an increase in OPRT inhibition and thus to higher 5-FU 
levels, because to conversion of 5-FU to FUMP is inhibited. However, based on the distribution data this 
is  only  expected  for  the  intestine  and  not  systemic.  Thus  higher  plasma  levels  of  5-FU  could  be 
expected, but no effect on the anti-tumour affectivity is expected. No further studies are warranted. 
The  applicant  showed  that  gimeracil  inhibits  the  metabolism  of  5-FU  by  inhibiting  DPD.  The  most 
important factor that influences plasma CDHP levels is renal function, with increasing gimeracil plasma 
levels  with  decreasing  creatinine  clearance.  Thus,  plasma  concentrations  of  5-FU  were  dramatically 
increased when creatinine clearance was decreased (in line with human data). AUC ratio data indicate 
that gimeracil inhibits DPD for 100%, because the suicide substrate soruvidine (SRV) of DPD does not 
affect  the  AUC  of  5-FU.  The  underlying  mechanism  of  SRV  on  the  formation  of  5-FU  from  FT  is 
unknown.  In  addition,  Teysuno  and  Teysuno  +  SRV  showed  almost  the  same  plasma  5-FU 
concentration profiles after single administration, but repeated co-administration of TEYSUNO and SRV 
increased  the  plasma  concentration  of  5-FU  about  2.4  times  on  Day  7.  This  can  be  explained  by  the 
reversible binding of gimeracil, while the binding of SRV is irreversible. Teysuno is administered twice 
daily  and  plasma  levels  of  gimeracil  drop  below  100%  inhibition.  SRV  will  then  bind  to  DPD  and  will 
thus lead to altered 5-FU kinetics (increased plasma levels). Inter-individual differences are known for 
DPD  activity  (e.g.  the  pharmacogenetic  syndrome  DPD  deficiency)  and  lead  to  severe,  unanticipated 
toxicity after 5-FU administration. However, after Teysuno administration DPD is already inhibited and 
the  dose  of  FT  (pro-drug  of  5-FU)  is  already  adapted  to  overcome  possible  5-FU  toxicity  due  to  a 
decreased clearance of 5-FU. Overall, the conclusions on the inhibition of DPD and no  further studies 
are  warranted.  The  SmPC  already  states  possible  drug-drug  interactions  with  the  antiviral  drug  SRV 
and  its  chemically  related  analogues.  However,  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  should  mention  possible 
alteration  in  kinetics  if  a  DPD  inducer  is  concomitantly  administered  with  Teysuno,  but  that  currently 
no DPD inducers are known. 
Tegafur was found to inhibit CYP2A6 to some extent. As tegafur is converted by CYP2A6 to the active 
compound 5-FU, drugs inhibiting or inducing CYP2A6 will interact with formation of 5-FU. 
Investigations in rabbits with induced liver injury suggested that the conversion of the prodrug tegafur 
to 5-FU may be affected in patients with liver impairment. 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys  produced  changes  typically  associated  with 
administration  of  an  anti-cancer  medicinal  product  eliciting  cytotoxic  effects  on  populations  of  rapidly 
dividing  cells,  such  as  anaemia,  decrease  in  the  immune  and  digestive  system  function,  disruption of 
spermatogenesis, and atrophy in male and female reproductive organs.   
Treatment  with  Teysuno  produced  various  skin  effects  in  rat  (keratosis  of  footpad  and  tail)  and  dog 
(skin crusts and erosions). In addition, hyperpigmentation in the skin and eyes and corneal opacity in 
dogs and cataracts in rats were observed following repeat dosing. These changes were reversible. The 
tegafur component of Teysuno seemed to be responsible for the melanin deposition, since the effects 
on the skin (hyperpigmentation) and eye (lacrimation, conjunctivitis) was clinically observed with 5-FU 
(see SmPC of capecitabine). For Teysuno, the effects on the skin (hyperpigmentation, lesions) as well 
as effects on the eye (lacrimation, conjunctivitis) are identified risks in the Risk Management Plan. 
Teysuno  does  not  appear  to  affect  male  or  female  fertility  in  the  rat;  however,  administration  at  any 
time after conception resulted in a range of external, visceral, and skeletal foetal abnormalities in rat 
and rabbit. There is therefore a high risk for developmental toxicity at clinical doses, primarily due to 
tegafur (5-FU) and to oteracil to a lesser extent. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 27/67
 
 
 
Teysuno was not carcinogenic in either the rat or the mouse.  Teysuno was not found to be mutagenic 
when tested in the in vitro Ames assay.  Teysuno was clastogenic in vitro using Chinese hamster lung 
cells and was weakly clastogenic in vivo in mouse bone marrow. 
Hepatic toxicity and renal damage are listed as identified risk in the Risk Management Plan. Moreover, 
gastrointestinal  toxicity  has  been  included  in  the  Risk  Management  Plan,  since  there  is  no  safety 
margin for this effect in human, 
Results from studies with impurities provided reassurance that the proposed limits are acceptable and 
no further non-clinical studies on impurities are necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
In  support  of  this  application,  11  Phase  1/2  clinical  pharmacology  studies  in  patients  with  solid 
tumours  or  gastric  tumours,  as  well  as  a  population  PK  study  have  been  provided.  Furthermore,  the 
clinical  documentation  submitted  comprised  four  phase  3  studies.  The  design  of  the  studies  and  the 
dose  regimens  are  presented  in  the  tables  below  (Tables  2-4).  The  pivotal  Phase  III  study  for  this 
application was study S-13-1/FLAGS.  
Table 2 Phase 1 clinical study details 
Study nr 
Phase 
Aim 
S-1101 
Phase 1  To determine the 
recommended dose of 
Teysuno + cisplatin in 
Caucasian patients 
Number of 
patients 
6,  
3,  
6 
S-1118 
Phase 1  Relative bioavailability of 
Teysuno administered as 
a capsule formulation 
compared to an oral 
solution 
S-1102 
Phase 1  determination of MTD of 
S-1106 
S-1110 
Teysuno 
Phase 1  Effect of oteracil on 
tolerability of 5-FU from 
Teysuno 
Phase 1  Effect of oteracil on 
pharmacokinetics of 5-FU 
from Teysuno 
14 
13,  
3 
7 
5 
28 
S-1108 
Phase 1  Effect of gimeracil on 
12 
pharmacokinetics of 5-FU 
from Teysuno 
S-1107 
Phase 1  CYP 2A6 activity and 
37 
Dose 
25 mg/m2 Teysuno + 75 mg/m2 
cisplatin,  
30 mg/m2 Teysuno + 75 mg/m2 
cisplatin,  
30 mg/m2 Teysuno + 60 mg/m2 
cisplatin. 
50 mg Teysuno 
30 mg/m2 Teysuno,  
35 mg/m2 Teysuno 
25 mg/m2 Teysuno BID 21 days 
25 mg/m2 tegafur + gimeracil BID 
21 days 
50 mg Teysuno SD, 50 mg tegafur 
SD 
Extension: 30 mg/m2 Teysuno BID 
14 days 
50 mg Teysuno SD, 50 mg tegafur 
+oteracil 
Extension: 30 mg/m2 BID 14 days 
30 mg/m2 Teysuno BID 14 days 
Teysuno pharmacokinetics 
in Asian (Chinese/Malay) 
patients 
S-1111 
Phase 1  Effect of renal function on 
the on pharmacokinetics 
of Teysuno  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Normal 7, 
Mild 6, 
Moderate 6, 
Severe 0 
Normal: 30 mg/m2 Teysuno BID 14 
days 
Mild: 30 mg/m2 Teysuno BID 14 
days 
Moderate: 20 mg/m2 Teysuno BID 
14 days 
Page 28/67
 
 
 
 
 
Severe: 20 mg/m2 Teysuno OD 14 
days 
All groups: 30 mg/m2 Teysuno BID 
14 days 
30 mg/m2 Teysuno 7 days 
Normal, 
mild, 
moderate, 
severe, 6, 8, 
7, 6. 
 Primary Pk 
27 
Safety 55 
22 
30 mg/m2 Teysuno 14 days 
S-1112 
Phase 1  Effect of hepatic function 
on the on 
pharmacokinetics of 
Teysuno 
S-1105 
Phase 1  Effect of food and gastric 
pH on the 
pharmacokinetics of 
Teysuno components and 
metabolites 
S-1117 
Population 
PK Study 
09DA03 
Pop PK 
Phase 1  The potential for Teysuno 
to cause QTc prolongation 
Pop PK on pooled data of 
7 selected Phase 1 studies 
(S-1105, S-1106, S-1107, 
S-1108, S-1110, S-1111, 
and S-1112) and 1 Phase 
3 study (S-1301). 
Table 3 Phase 2 and 3 clinical study details 
Study nr 
Phase 
Type of study 
Patients 
Aim  
Primary 
endpoint 
S-1101 
phase 2 
Phase 
2 
US, Germany 
Advanced gastric 
cancer 
N=72 
S-1301/ 
FLAGS 
Phase 
3 
Main study 
Supportive efficacy 
data  
Open-label, 
randomised, 2-arm 
Eastern/Western 
Europe,  
North America,  
Latin America, 
Australia and  
South Africa.  
147 sites, 24 
countries 
91023038/ 
ACTS-GC 
Phase 
3 
Open-label, 
multicentre 
randomised, 2-arm, 
parallel group study 
In 109 sites in Japan 
Patients with 
histologically 
confirmed advanced 
gastric cancer 
previously untreated 
with Chemotherapy 
for advanced disease 
N=1053 patients 
25 mg/m2 S-1 + 75 
mg/m2 cisplatin 
S-1 adjuvant therapy 
after curative 
resection 
N=1059 patients  
Stage II (not T1) or 
stage IIIA/B gastric 
cancer + curative 
resection with 
extended lymph node 
dissection  
Establish safety 
of the 
recommended 
phase 2 dose in 
Western patients 
and Determine 
overall response 
rate associated 
with this dose  
Efficacy and 
safety of S-1 
+cisplatin 
compared to  
5-FU + cisplatin 
25 mg/m2 S-1 + 
75 mg/m2 
cisplatin 
versus 
1000 mg/m2/24 
h continuous iv 
5-FU + 100 
mg/m2 cisplatin 
S-1 compared to 
observation only 
as postoperative 
adjuvant 
treatment of 
patients with 
stage II, IIIA or 
IIIB gastric 
cancer 
Overall 
survival 
Secondary 
endpoint 
PFS 
Overall 
survival 
JCOG 9912 
Phase 
3 
Open-label, 
multicentre, 
N=704 patients 
Histologically 
S-1 compared to  
5-FU alone 
Overall 
survival 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 29/67
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
randomised, 3-arm 
34 sites Japan 
confirmed 
unresectable or 
recurrent gastric 
adenocarcinoma with 
no history of 
chemotherapy or 
radiation therapy for 
gastric cancer 
and irinotecan + 
cisplatin (CPT) 
S-1 40 mg/m2  
5-FU 
800 mg/m2/24h 
CPT 70 mg/m2 
CDDP 80mg/m2  
91023039/ 
SPIRITS 
Phase 
3 
Open-label, 
multicentre, 
randomised, 2-arm 
38 sites in Japan 
S-1 compared to 
S-1 + cisplatin 
Overall 
survival 
Advanced gastric 
cancer 
N=305 patients 
Histologically 
confirmed 
unresectable or 
recurrent gastric 
adenocarcinoma with 
no history of 
chemotherapy  
CT=chemotherapy, PFS=progression free survival 
Table 4 Dose regimens used in the Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 30/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption 
Teysuno components were readily absorbed after oral administration of Teysuno capsules in humans. 
Following  single  Teysuno  doses  of  50  mg  or  25-30  mg/m2  administered  at  least  1  hour  before  or 
1 hour  after  a  meal,  detectable  plasma  concentrations  of  Teysuno  components  and  metabolites 
occurred within 0.5 hours with median time to maximum plasma concentration (tmax) values ranging 
from 0.5 to 1 hr for tegafur, 1 to 2 hr for gimeracil, 1.5 to 4 hr for oteracil, and 2 to 3 hr for 5-FU.  
Following  a  single  oral  administration  of  50  mg  Teysuno  (approximately  30  mg/m2 based  on  surface 
area, N=14), mean ± SD for AUCinf and Cmax was 14595 ± 4340 ng.h/ml and 1762 ± 279 ng/ml for 
tegafur,  1884  ±  640  ng.h/ml  and  452  ±  102  ng/ml  for  gimeracil,  556  ±  281  ng.h/ml  and 
112 ± 52 ng/ml for oteracil, and 842 ± 252 ng.h/ml and 174 ± 58 ng/ml for 5-FU. 
After administration of 30mg/m2 dose, steady state conditions were reached for tegafur, gimeracil and 
oteracil at the latest by Day 8. 
Tegafur  plasma  levels  were  much  higher  following  administration  of  800  mg  tegafur  alone,  as 
compared to 50 mg Teysuno. In contrast, mean 5-FU Cmax and AUC values were approximately 3-fold 
higher after Teysuno administration than after administration of tegafur alone, despite a 16-fold lower 
Teysuno dose (equals 50 mg of tegafur) compared to tegafur alone (800 mg). The 3-fold higher 5-FU 
systemic  exposure  after  Teysuno  administration  was  considered  attributable  to  inhibition  of  DPD  by 
gimeracil. 
Based on urinary excretion data, the absolute bioavailability of tegafur in human appeared high, i.e., at 
least  83%.  Also  based  on  urinary  data,  the  absolute  bioavailability  of  gimeracil  in  humans  was  more 
than  44%,  and  for  oteracil  more  than  13%.  Bioavailability  of  5-FU,  tegafur  and  gimeracil  after 
administration  of  Teysuno  capsules  was  comparable  to  the  Teysuno  oral  solution,  indicating  that  the 
formulation was no determinant of the absorption pharmacokinetics of Teysuno components. 
Food  affected  the  pharmacokinetics  of  several  Teysuno  components.  The  major  impact  was  observed 
on  AUC  and  Cmax  of  oteracil,  which  were  decreased  by  approximately  70%  with  food.  A  relatively 
small effect of food on AUC and Cmax of 5-FU was observed, which decreased by approximately 15% 
with food. Although oteracil was sensitive to low pH, addition of a proton pump inhibitor did not affect 
the  observed  food-effect  to  a  significant  extent.  Therefore,  it  was  recommended  that  Teysuno  be 
administered at least 1 hour before or 1 hour after a meal, i.e., without food, for optimized exposure to 
all Teysuno components. 
Distribution  
Protein  binding  of  all  Teysuno  components  was  moderate  to  low,  i.e.,  49%  to  56%  for  tegafur,  from 
32% to 33% for gimeracil, from 7.2% to 9.6% for oteracil, and from 17% to 20% for 5-FU. Therefore, 
no  interactions  with  respect  to  protein-protein  interactions  are  expected.  No  clinical  data  on  the 
distribution of radiolabelled components of Teysuno are available. Although no IV data are available for 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 31/67
 
 
 
Teysuno  in  humans,  the  volume  of  distribution  could  be  estimated  from  the  apparent  volume  of 
distribution  and  urinary  excretion  data  as  16  l/m2,  17  l/m2,  and  23 l/m2  for  tegafur,  gimeracil  and 
oteracil, respectively. 
Metabolism  
The  main  metabolic  pathway  for  tegafur  is  through  conversion  via  CYP2A6  to  5-FU  in  the  liver. 
Gimeracil  was  not  found  to  be  metabolised  in  vitro  in  human  liver  fractions,  which  is  in  line  with  the 
large  proportion  of  gimeracil  excreted  unchanged  in  urine.  Oteracil  is  metabolised  mainly  by 
phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) to cyanuric acid (CA). 
Tegafur  contains  a  chiral  centre  and  has  two  stereoisomers,  i.e.,  (R)-tegafur  and  (S)-tegafur.  The 
mean  values  of  AUC0-inf  and  t1/2  for  (R)-tegafur  were  5.3-fold  lower  and  4.3-fold  shorter, 
respectively, compared with (S)-tegafur. The observed difference in PK of (R)-tegafur and (S)-tegafur 
was in line with current knowledge described for UFT. The clinical significance is limited, since tegafur 
itself is inactive and the amount of (R)-tegafur and (S)-tegafur in the drug product has been constant. 
Tegafur is metabolised mainly by CYP2A6. Polymorphisms in this CYP isoenzyme have been described, 
and are expected to result in faster or slower conversion of tegafur to 5-FU. CYP2A6 variants may be a 
cause  for  PK  variability  of  tegafur.  In  an  Asian  (Chinese/Malay)  patient  population  having  lower 
CYP2A6 activity, exposure to tegafur was higher compared to the Caucasian group. However, exposure 
to  5-FU  was  not  different  between  the  Caucasian  and  the  Asian  population  and  therefore  no  dose-
adjustment  or  genotyping  prior  to  treatment  appeared  to  be  necessary.  However,  in  this  study  no 
polymorphisms  affecting  CYP2A6  activity  to  a  really  major  extent  were  present  in  the  included 
Caucasian and Asian population. In contrast, a CYP2A6 gene named as CYP2A6*4, which results in the 
absence  of  CYP2A6  protein,  is  known  to  be  present  in  the  Japanese  population  with  a  frequency  of 
15%  (Nunoya  et  al.,  1998;Miyamoto  et  al.,  1999).  Based  on  literature  and  data  obtained  from  the 
TPU-S1301 Phase III study, a significant effect of the presence of the CYP2A6*4C allele on the AUC of 
tegafur  was  indicated,  with  significantly  increased  tegafur  AUCs  observed  in  patients  possessing  the 
CYP2A6*4C  allele.  In  most  cases  the  effect  of  gimeracil  exposure  on  5-FU  exposure  was  larger  than 
the effect of CYP2A6 polymorphism, however, the situation for the *4/*4 homozygous population was 
less clear. Sparse data reported indicate that 5-FU levels in that *4/*4 population may be decreased, 
possibly  to  a  clinically  relevant  degree,  and  possibly  on  top  of  the  effect  of  gimeracil  exposure.  The 
frequency  of  this  deleted  allele  in  Caucasians  is  not  well  known;  in  one  study,  it  was  1%  among 
Spaniards and Finns (Oscarson et al., 1999). The apparent lower frequency of the CYP2A6*4 allele in 
the  Caucasian  population  indicated  that  based  on  the  results  obtained  in  Study  S-1107,  no  major 
consequences are expected due to CYP2A6 polymorphisms.  
Elimination  
The  t1/2  for  Teysuno  components  and  the  apparent  t1/2  for  5-FU  following  a  single  50-mg  or  25-  to 
30-mg/m2 dose ranged from 1.6 to 1.9 hr for 5-FU, from 6.7 hr to 11.3 hr for tegafur, from 3.1 hr to 
4.1  hr  for  gimeracil,  and  from  1.8  to  9.5  hr  for  oteracil.  The  apparent  elimination  half-life  for  5-FU 
obtained  from  Teysuno  administration  (1.6  to  1.9  hours)  was  longer  than  the  t1/2  observed  for  iv 
administered 5-FU, i.e., 10-20 minutes, which may be due to inhibition of DPD by gimeracil.  
Following a single dose of Teysuno, approximately 3.8% to 4.2% of administered tegafur, 64% to 72% 
of administered gimeracil, and 3.5% to 3.9% of administered oteracil were excreted unchanged in the 
urine. Approximately 10% of the administered tegafur dose was recovered in urine as 5-FU and 70% 
to 77% as α-fluoro-β-alanine (FBAL). Approximately 10% of the administered oteracil was excreted in 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 32/67
 
 
 
urine as the CA metabolite, and therefore in total approximately 13% of oteracil was excreted via the 
urine. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies  
Literature data indicate that the PK of tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil is linear, whereas the PK of 5-FU 
is non-linear, due to the combined effect of increased dose of tegafur (leading to increased formation 
of 5-FU) and the concomitant increase in gimeracil dose (leading to an increased inhibition of DPD and 
thus to an additional increase in 5-FU exposure).  
After multiple dose administration of 30 mg/m2 BID for 14 days, mean ± SD for AUC0-48h and Cmax 
was  40691  ±  28198  ng.h/ml  and  2316  ±  735  ng/ml  for  tegafur.  Mean  ±  SD  for  AUC0-8h  and  Cmax 
was 1011 ± 206 ng.h/ml and 245 ± 62 ng/ml for gimeracil, 382 ± 197 ng.h/ml and 83 ± 41 ng/ml for 
oteracil,  and  537  ±  180  ng.h/ml  and  142  ±  53  ng/ml  for  5-FU.  No  unexpected  accumulation  was 
observed  following  multiple  dose  administration  for  all  Teysuno  components.  There  appeared  to  be 
little  accumulation  of  5-FU  and  gimeracil  in  patients  after  multiple  doses,  with  mean  Cmax  and  AUC 
accumulation  ratio  values  generally  in  the  1.12  to  1.23  range  for  5-FU  and  0.94  to  1.4  range  for 
gimeracil. The accumulation ratio for tegafur AUC and Cmax was approximately 3 and 2, respectively. 
Since tegafur has an apparent half-life in the 11 to 12 hour range and Teysuno is administered every 
12 hours, this accumulation ratio was consistent with the half-life and dosing frequency. 
Special populations  
Renal impairment 
In  the  renal  impairment  study,  the  exposure  to  5-FU  was  affected  by  renal  impairment,  despite  the 
fact that 5-FU was only excreted in urine to a limited extent. The effect of renal impairment on 5-FU 
exposure  most  likely  is  explained  by  increased  plasma  levels  of  gimeracil,  which  is  for  a  large  part 
excreted renally, and therefore increased inhibition of DPD in case of renal impairment. This increased 
inhibition of DPD will subsequently lead to increased 5-FU exposure in case of renal impairment. 
Based on the renal impairment study and population PK modelling, a dose reduction to approximately 
21  mg/m2  Teysuno  in  mild  renal  impaired  patients  (CrCL  51  to  80  ml/min)  would  yield  comparable 
exposure as by 25 mg/m2 given in patients with normal renal function with cisplatin. However, based 
on safety data obtained in the pivotal clinical trial S1301, no dose reduction is considered necessary in 
the  mild  renal  impaired  patient  population.  The  applicant  proposed  a  dose  reduction  to  20  mg/m2  in 
moderate renal impaired patients (CrCl 30 to 50 ml/min). This advice is based on data obtained from 
the  renal  impairment  study,  and  was  shown  to  yield  comparable  exposure  compared  to  30  mg/m2  in 
renal control patients, and on the safety data obtained with the 25 mg/m2 dose in mild renal impaired 
patients. Considering the tolerability of this 25 mg/m2 dose in mild renal impaired patients in the Study 
S1301,  the  20  mg/m2  dose  in  moderate  renal  impaired  patients,  combined  with  the  same  dose  of 
cisplatin, is likely to be tolerated. Therefore, the proposed 20 mg/m2 dose in moderate renal impaired 
patients was agreed. 
No  data  are  yet  available  for  the  severe  renal  impaired  patient  population  (CrCl  <30  ml/min).  Until 
these  data  are  available  and  a  dose  advice  can  be  provided,  severe  renal  impairment  is 
contraindicated. The applicant has committed to provide the final study report of the renal impairment 
(see Risk Management Plan). 
Hepatic impairment  
There  were  no  significant  differences  observed  in  AUCs  of  5-FU,  tegafur,  gimeracil,  or  oteracil  after 
either single or multiple dose administration of Teysuno 30 mg/m2 BID in patients with mild, moderate, 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 33/67
 
 
 
or  severe  hepatic  impairment  compared  to  those  with  normal  hepatic  function.  Based  on  overall  PK 
results,  there  appeared  no  need  for  Teysuno  dosage  modifications  in  cancer  patients  with  mild, 
moderate or severe hepatic impairment. 
Gender 
No different dosing of Teysuno was considered necessary in male and females. 
Race 
Exposure  to  5-FU  following  administration  of  Teysuno  appeared  to  be  comparable  in  Caucasians  and 
Asians from Chinese/Malay ancestry. Based on these comparable 5-FU levels, no dose adjustment from 
the  standard  Teysuno  dose  of  25  mg/m2  BID  in  combination  with  cisplatin  is  considered  required  for 
patients of this Asian ethnicity.  
Weight  
Results  of  a  Population  PK  simulation  suggest  that  BSA-based  dosing  indeed  reduces  variability  in 
exposure to 5-FU following administration of Teysuno, as compared to fixed dosing. 
Age  
Based on pharmacokinetics of the Teysuno components, no dose adjustment based on age appeared to 
be necessary in elderly. Teysuno was not investigated in, and is not recommended for children under 
18 years. 
Patients with gastrectomy 
Based  on  the  Population  PK  investigation,  no  major  differences  in  the  PK  of  Teysuno  components 
appeared to be present in patients with or without a history of gastrectomy. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Based  on  in  vitro  data,  no  relevant  inhibition  of  CYP  isoenzymes  is  expected  in  vivo,  e.g.,  the  Ki  for 
inhibition of CYP2A6 by tegafur is 80-fold higher than the Cmax obtained in vivo. Moreover, no signs of 
an  inductive  effect  of  tegafur  were  noted  in  vitro.  No  in  vivo  drug-drug  interaction  studies  related  to 
CYP isoenzymes are implicated. 
Interactions between tegafur and gimeracil and oteracil were used in order to optimize 5-FU exposure 
following  administration  of  tegafur.  Inhibition  of  DPD  by  gimeracil  increased  the  5-FU  plasma  levels. 
Oteracil  did  not  affect  5-FU  plasma  levels,  and  thus  is  not  expected  to  negatively  affect  antitumor 
activity  of  5-FU  obtained  from  Teysuno  administration.  Instead,  oteracil  is  added  aiming  for  affecting 
phosphorylation  of  5-FU  only  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract.  In  a  clinical  study,  oteracil  was  shown  to 
increase tolerability and reduce or delay the occurrence of gastrointestinal toxicities. 
No relevant PK interaction appeared to be present between Teysuno components and cisplatin.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The  mechanism  of  action  of  Teysuno  proceeds  via  the  well  known  active  substance  5-FU,  which  is 
formed via CYP2A6 mediated metabolism from the Teysuno component tegafur. Inclusion of gimeracil 
and  oteracil  into  the  Teysuno  formulation,  as  inhibitors  of  the  5-FU  catabolism  and  anabolism 
pathways,  respectively,  constitutes  an  approach  to  increase  relative  exposure  to  5-FU  while  at  the 
same  time  trying  to  decrease  gastrointestinal  adverse  events.  Using  the  endogenous  DPD  substrate 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 34/67
 
 
 
uracil  as  a  tool,  it  was  demonstrated  that  addition  of  gimeracil  to  tegafur  in  the  Teysuno  formulation 
effectively  resulted  in  a  transient  inhibition  of  DPD.  Maximum  inhibition  of  DPD  by  gimeracil  was 
observed  at  4  hours,  with  a  return  of  plasma  uracil  concentrations  to  baseline  levels  within 
approximately 48 hours after dosing indicating the reversibility of the DPD inhibition by gimeracil.  
Primary and Secondary pharmacology  
In  a  Phase  1  clinical  study,  oteracil  appeared  to  improve  tolerability  of  the  treatment  with  tegafur, 
whereas  5-FU  plasma  levels  were  not  affected.  However,  no  benefit  with  respect  to  the  safety  of 
tegafur as compared to 5-FU was observed in the pivotal trial.  
An open-label, nonrandomized Phase 1 study was conducted designed to assess the effect of Teysuno 
on cardiac repolarisation and cardiac safety after a single dose and multiple doses of Teysuno at steady 
state  in  patients  with  advanced  gastric  cancer.  A  sufficient  number  of  patients  with  advanced  solid 
tumours were to be  enrolled to obtain at least 45 patients for cardiac safety assessment. The results 
indicated  that  Teysuno  did  not  prolong  QTc  to  a  clinically  significant  extent.  This  finding  is  in 
agreement with preclinical findings. 
2.4.4.  Discussion and Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Overall,  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  Teysuno  components  have  been  investigated  to 
an acceptable extent.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
S 1101 phase 1 study  
This  was  a  dose-finding  tolerability  study  performed  in  the  USA  in  patients  with  advanced  gastric 
cancer to determine the recommended dose of Teysuno+cisplatin.  
Due to differences in CYP2A6 polymorphism more toxicity was seen in European studies compared to 
Japanese studies and therefore the Teysuno dose had to be reduced in Caucasian patients. Diarrhoea 
was the dose-limiting toxicity in Caucasians and haematological toxicity was the dose limiting toxicity 
in Japanese patients.  
The  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  determine  the  MTD  of  Teysuno  in  combination  with  cisplatin  in 
patients with advanced gastric cancer. The dose regimen was twice daily Teysuno treatment (starting 
at 25 mg/m2) for 21 days followed by a 7-day recovery period, with cisplatin 75 mg/m2 administered 
on Day 1. The regimen was given every 28 days. The cisplatin dose was fixed, while the Teysuno dose 
was escalated in 3 cohorts of patients. The starting dose of Teysuno was 25 mg/m2 twice daily every 
12 hours, to be followed by sequential dose escalation to 30 mg/m2 and 35 mg/m2 twice daily every 
12 hours. 
S 1101 phase 2 study 
In  this  study  72  patients  who  had  not  received  prior  chemotherapy  for  advanced  gastric  cancer  were 
treated  with  Teysuno  25  mg/m2  BID  for  21  consecutive  days  +  75  mg/m2  cisplatin  iv  on  day  1, 
repeated  every 28 days thereafter. In this study 30 mg/m2 Teysuno + 75 or 60 mg/m2  cisplatin was 
not  tolerated  in  Western  patients.  The  primary  endpoint  was  overall  response  rate  and  secondary 
endpoint  was  overall  survival.  The  best  overall  response  rate  was  53.1%  (34  patients  partial 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 35/67
 
 
 
response), 68.1% (49/72) were followed until death (up to 26.4 months). The median overall survival 
was 10.4 months. The survival rate was 73.3% at 6 months, 41.7% at 1 year and 22.6% at 2 years.  
2.5.2.  Main study 
The  S-1301/FLAGS  study  is  the  main  Phase  III  trial  (open-label,  multicenter,  randomized,  parallel 
group, active controlled) in which the effectiveness of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin compared 
to 5-FU in combination with cisplatin in patients with advanced gastric cancer previously untreated with 
chemotherapy for advanced disease was studied in a Caucasian patient population.  
Methods 
Study Participants 
The  study  enrolled  male  and  female  patients  above  18  years  of  age  with  histological  confirmed, 
unresectable,  locally  advanced  (Stage  IV)  or  metastatic  gastric  cancer,  including  adenocarcinoma  of 
the  gastroesophageal  (GE)  junction,  and  who  had  no  prior  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  for  advanced 
gastric cancer. Patients must have been at least 4 weeks post radiotherapy, and at least 3 weeks post 
major surgery. Patients had Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Scale (ECOG) performance status of 
0 or 1, and met minimum laboratory test requirements. 
The study was conducted in 147 sites in 24 countries in Eastern/Western Europe, North America, Latin 
America, Australia and South Africa. 
Treatments 
25  mg/m2  Teysuno  was  administered  twice  daily  (BID)  for  21  consecutive  days  followed  by  a  7-day 
recovery  period  combined  with  75  mg/m2  cisplatin  i.v.  administered  on  day  1  and  repeated  every 
28 days.  Teysuno  was  administered  1  hour  before  or  1  hour  after  a  meal  with  a  glass  of  water 
(approximately 100 ml). Cisplatin was administered as a 1- to 3-hour infusion on Day 1 following the 
morning dose of Teysuno. 
Patients  in  the  control  arm  received  1000  mg/m2/24  hours  of  5-FU  administered  by  continuous  i.v. 
infusion  over  120  hours  (day  1-5)  in  combination  with  100  mg/m2  cisplatin  i.v.  on  day  1,  both 
repeated every 28 days thereafter.  
Cisplatin treatment in both study arms was limited to 6 cycles. 
Supportive  treatment  (loperamide,  rehydration),  could  be  administered  if  diarrhoea  was  observed.  If 
grade ≥ 3 was observed Teysuno treatment was held until diarrhoea has subsided to baseline or grade 
≤  1.  Teysuno  treatment  was  resumed  at  one  reduced  dose  level.  Supportive  care  such  as 
antidiarrheals  (e.g.  loperamide,  rehydration)  antiemetics,  analgesics,  etc  was  permitted  at  any  time 
and was administered according to the institutional standard of care. Hematologic support as medically 
indicated was permitted (blood transfusions, granulocyte-colony stimulating factor G-CSF) according to 
the  institutional  site  standards  or  following  the  ASCO  guidelines  for  the  use  of  hematopoietic  colony 
stimulating factors. A mouth rinse was permitted as a curative or prophylactic treatment for stomatitis. 
Patients  were  not  permitted  to  receive  any  other  investigational  or  any  other  anticancer  therapy  or 
concomitant medication that could interact with Teysuno. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 36/67
 
 
 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  compare  the  overall  survival  of  Teysuno  treatment  in  combination  with 
cisplatin  compared  to  5-FU  treatment  in  combination  with  cisplatin  in  patients  with  advanced  gastric 
cancer.  
Secondary  objectives  were  a  comparison  of  the  overall  response  rate  and  other  parameters  of 
antitumor activity as well as the assessment of the quantitative and qualitative toxicity and reversibility 
of  toxicity  of  each  treatment  regimen.  Patient  reported  outcomes,  clinical  benefit,  time  to  treatment 
failure  and  the  relationship  between  Teysuno  and  5-FU  plasma  levels  and  safety  and  efficacy 
parameters (optional) were also investigated. 
Exploratory  objectives  were  to  investigate  the  relationship  of  tumour  gene  expression  to  efficacy 
parameters,  to  correlate  the  presence  or  absence  of  genetic  mutations,  including  nucleotide 
polymorphisms  (SNPs),  deletions,  transport,  transduction,  or  insertions  with  safety  and  efficacy 
parameters and to investigate the pharmacogenomics of both treatment regimens by screening a panel 
of  candidate  genes,  including  but  not  limited  to  those  related  to  drug  metabolism,  nucleotide 
metabolism, transport, transduction and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  overall  survival  (OS).  Survival  was  defined  as  the  time  from  date  of 
randomisation to date of death. In the absence of death confirmation or for patients alive at the time 
of analysis, survival time was censored at the date of last follow-up. Survival information was obtained 
every  2  months  after  the  end  of  treatment  even  if  a  patient  had  progressive  disease  or  if  new 
anticancer  therapy  was  initiated  during  the  follow-up  period.  Patients  randomised  but  never  dosed 
were also followed for survival.  
Secondary  endpoints  were  overall  response  rate  (ORR)  and  progression  free  survival  (PFS).  PFS  was 
defined as the time from randomisation to date of first documented progression of disease or date of 
death and was analysed for the full analysis set population.  
Patients were evaluated for efficacy, including OS, PFS, tumour response rate (TRR; based on RECIST), 
and  time  to  treatment  failure  (TTF),  patients  reported  outcomes  (PROs),  clinical  benefit  and 
outpatients  interval;  for  safety,  toxicity  was  assessed  by  adverse  events  (AEs)  and  laboratory 
evaluations.  
Safety  assessments  were  performed  by  NCI  Common  Terminology  Criteria  for  Adverse  Events, 
including  assessment  of  type,  incidence,  severity,  timing,  seriousness  and  relatedness  of  AEs  and 
laboratory  assessments  were  used  to  assess  whether  Teysuno  had  a  lower  toxicity  than  5-FU  when 
combined with cisplatin. 
Sample size 
A total of 1050 patients, 525 in each treatment arm, were to be randomized and treated in this study 
in  order  to  obtain  a  total  of  761  events  (deaths)  within  the  scheduled  follow-up  time  (minimum  of 
12 months).  In  order  to  ensure  comparability  of  the  treatment  arms  at  baseline,  patients  were 
stratified  by  type  of  disease  (locally  advanced,  metastatic  disease  in  only  one  metastatic  site,  or 
metastatic  disease  in  2  or  more  metastatic  sites),  prior  adjuvant  therapy  (yes  or  no),  measurable 
versus non-measurable disease, and center. 
Sample  size  considerations  were  based  on  the  survival  endpoint.  Based  on  data  available  from 
multinational, randomized studies and data reported from a multinational study in a similar population, 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 37/67
 
 
 
the median survival in the control arm was estimated to be 8.5 months. Based on data from a Phase 2 
study  using  the  same  Teysuno  and  cisplatin  regimen,  the  median  survival  was  estimated  at 
10.5 months.  A  23.5%  improvement  in  median  survival  from  8.5  months  in  the  control  arm  to 
10.5 months  in  the  treatment  arm,  yielding  a  reduced  hazard  ratio  of  0.81,  was  considered  clinically 
relevant  in  this  population.  A  total  of  761  events  (deaths)  were  required  for  a  two-tailed  unstratified 
log-rank test at the 5% significance and at least 80% power (approximately 83%). Based on a patient 
accrual of 65 patients per month, a minimum follow-up of 12 months, and a loss to follow-up rate of 
5%, a total of 1050 patients were to be enrolled in the study to achieve the specified number of events 
in  the  scheduled  follow-up  time.    Assuming  that  the  study  was  not  stopped  at  the  planned  interim 
analysis, the final survival analysis was to take place 12 months after the last patient was randomized 
or the time that a total of 761 events (deaths) were observed, whichever was later. 
Randomisation 
Patients were randomly assigned (1:1) to Teysuno in combination with cisplatin (experimental arm) or 
5-FU  in  combination  with  cisplatin  (control  arm)  via  an  Interactive  Voice  Response  System  (IVRS) 
based  on  a  stochastic  minimization  technique.  Patients  were  stratified  by  type  of  disease  (locally 
advanced, metastatic disease in only one metastatic site, or metastatic disease in 2 or more metastatic 
sites), prior adjuvant therapy (yes or no), measurable versus non-measurable disease, and center. 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was an open-label study. 
Statistical methods 
In the Full Analysis Set (FAS) the population consisted of all patients who were dosed, with study drug 
assignment  designated  according  to  initial  randomization,  regardless  of  whether  patients  received  a 
different  drug  from  that  to  which  they  were  randomised.  This  was  the  primary  population  for 
evaluating  patient  characteristics,  OS,  PFS,  TTP,  TTF,  clinical  benefit  parameters,  and  any  supportive 
analyses for those endpoints.  
Per  Protocol  Set  was  defined  post-hoc  as  the  Full  Analysis  Set  excluding  patients  with  violations  of 
study  entry  criteria  (No  histological  confirmation  of  gastric  cancer,  Haemoglobin  <6.5  g/dL,  Platelets 
not  recorded  at  baseline  ,  Creatinine  clearance  <50  mL/min  ,  Creatinine  clearance  not  recorded  at 
baseline,  Total  bilirubin  >3.6  mg/dL  (3  x  ULN),  Total  bilirubin  not  recorded  at  baseline,  AST  not 
recorded  at  baseline,  ALT  >200  U/L  (5  x  ULN)  ,  ALT  not  recorded  at  baseline  ,  AST  >75  U/L  (1.5  x 
ULN)  and/or  ALT  >60  U/L  (1.5  x  ULN)  plus  bilirubin  >1.8  mg/dL  (1.5  x  ULN),  prior  chemotherapy 
within 12 months , other malignancies within the past 5 years). 
As  Treated  Population  (ATP)  comprised  all  patients  who  initiated  treatment  with  either  of  the  2 
regimens with treatment assignment designated according to actual treatment received. This was the 
primary population for evaluation of treatment administration, compliance, and safety endpoints. 
Evaluable  Populations  consisted  of  all  ATP  patients  with  a  baseline  and  at  least  one  on-treatment 
assessment performed sufficient to assess the endpoint of interest. This was the primary population for 
evaluation  of  antitumor  activity  parameters,  clinical  benefit  parameters,  patient-reported  outcomes, 
and  PK  and  PGx  assessments.  The  ORR-Evaluable  Population  was  further  restricted  to  evaluable 
patients with measurable disease (at least one target lesion) at baseline based on either Investigator 
assessment or Independent assessment. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 38/67
 
 
 
The OS endpoint had one interim test of potential inferior survival rate for the Teysuno arm at 50% of 
the  target  events  (381  deaths)  using  a  one-sided  significance  level  consistent  with  a  Lan-DeMets 
spending function, consistent with a two-sided 0.05 O’Brien-Fleming design. The significance level for 
the final comparison of survival between the 2 arms was set at 0.05 (two-sided). All other treatment 
comparisons for other endpoints were performed at the two-sided 0.05 level and were not adjusted for 
multiple testing resulting from more than 1 endpoint. 
OS  was  tested  in  the  Full  Analysis  Set  Population  using  the  unstratified  log-rank  test,  the 
corresponding hazard ratio was obtained from Cox’s proportional hazard model with only treatment as 
a  factor.  For  a  justification  of  the  non-inferiority  margin,  see  conduct  of  the  study  in  the  Results 
section. 
Kaplan Meier curves and median Kaplan Meier estimates of survival and survival probabilities at 6, 12, 
18,  and  24  months,  were  provided  with  the  corresponding  2-sided  95%  confidence  intervals  (CI)  for 
the  estimates  (based  on  the  methods  of  Brookmeyer  and  Crowley).  Treatment  estimates  and 
differences with their 95% CIs were constructed using the Clopper-Pearson approximation to the exact 
binomial  proportion  for  individual  estimates  within  group,  and  the  normal  approximation  for  the 
difference  between  groups.  Confidence  intervals  for  median  survival  were  based  on  the  methods  of 
Brookmeyer  and  Crowley.  The  influence  of  stratification  factors,  other  baseline  characteristics,  and 
non-study  treatments  was  assessed  using  the  stratified  log-rank  test  and  Cox’s  regression  approach. 
Logistic regression modelling was used to investigate the effect of prognostic factors. 
All secondary time to event endpoints were analyzed using the methods for the OS (TTP, TTF and PFS 
in the full analysis set; duration of response [DR], TTR, and duration of post-treatment response in the 
ORR evaluable population). The treatment comparison for ORR was based on the Fisher’s Exact test at 
the  2-sided  alpha=0.05  level.  Treatment  estimates  and  differences  are  presented  along  with  the 
associated 95% CIs constructed using Clopper-Pearson approximation to the exact binomial proportion 
for individual estimates within group, and the normal approximation for the difference between groups. 
Interim Analyses and Data Monitoring 
There  were  no  interim  analyses  to  test  for  early  demonstration  of  a  potential  superior  survival 
advantage  for  the  CS  arm.  As  such,  no  alpha  spending  was  taken  into  consideration  for  sample  size 
calculation and the final analysis was performed at the 5% significance level. One interim analysis to 
test  for  early  demonstration  of  potential  inferior  survival  rate  of  the  CS  arm  (one-sided  test  for 
inferiority,  “futility”  analysis)  was  planned.  This  analysis  took  place  when  50%  of  the  events 
(381 deaths)  had  been  observed.  A  Lan-DeMets  spending  function  with  an  inferiority  boundary  that 
allowed for early stopping consistent with a one-sided 0.025 O’Brien-Fleming design was used. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 39/67
 
 
 
Data Monitoring Committee 
An  Independent  Data  Monitoring  Committee  (IDMC)  was  formed  with  responsibility  of  periodically 
evaluating  the  cumulative  safety  data  from  the  study  and  other  study  data,  including  results  of  the 
futility  analysis)  described  above,  and  recommending  study  continuation,  discontinuation,  or 
modification. 
Results  
Participant flow 
Figure 1: Patient Disposition 
A  total  of  1305  patients  were  screened  (signed  informed  consent)  for  participation  in  the  study.  Of 
these, 252 (19.3%) patients were not randomized: 220 failed eligibility criteria, 19 withdrew consent, 
and 13 had other reasons for discontinuation prior to randomization.  
Recruitment 
A  total  of  1053  patients  were  randomized  from  18  May  2005  and  7  March  2007.  Of  them,  1029 
(521 Teysuno  and  cisplatin  [CS];  508  5-FU  and  cisplatin  [CF])  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study 
drug.  All  patients  received  the  assigned  study  drugs  according  to  initial  randomization  (i.e.,  no 
randomization or treatment errors). At the time of clinical cut-off for reporting of non-survival data on 
31 December 2007,  26  patients  (16,  CS;  10,  CF)  were  continuing  on  study  treatment  and 
1003 patients (505, CS; 498, CF) had discontinued treatment.  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 40/67
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
The  S1301/FLAGS  study  was  designed  and  conducted  as  a  superiority  study.  However,  the  applicant 
considered it appropriate to switch post-hoc, after completion of the study, the primary objective from 
superiority to non-inferiority discussing the criteria in accordance with the CHMP Points to Consider on 
Switching between Superiority and Non-inferiority (CPMP/EWP/482/99) as the final results of the trial 
did not show statistical and clinical evidence for the primary objective: superiority of Teysuno+cisplatin 
over  5-FU+cisplatin.  From  a  meta-analysis  of  combination  chemotherapy  versus  monotherapy,  a 
hazard ratio of 0.83 was calculated (Wagner et al, J Clin Oncol 24: 2903, 2006). Preservation of 50% 
of the 0.83 effect resulted in a non-inferiority margin of 1.10. The non-inferiority margin of 1.10 in the 
hazard  ratio  scale  was  also  justified  by  the  applicant  based,  among  others,  on  literature  comparing 
combination chemotherapy (e.g., 5-FU + cisplatin) to either BSC or monotherapy alone (Boku et al; 
Dank et al; Kang et al) with non-inferiority margins ranging from 1.08 to 1.25.  
A  total  of  55  patients  (5.3%),  23  (4.4%)  in  the  Teysuno+cisplatin  arm  and  32  (6.3%)  in  the 
5-FU+cisplatin  arm,  had  major  protocol  violations  of  study  entry  criteria  as  defined  in  the  statistical 
analysis plan.  
There  were  no  marked  differences  between  the  2  groups  with  respect  to  the  occurrence  of  specific 
protocol  violations,  which  were  noted  in  approximately  5%  of  patients  (26,  5.0%  in  the  CS  arm;  26, 
5.1% in the CF arm). Two patients in the Teysuno+cisplatin group and 2 patients in the 5-FU+cisplatin 
group received non-study systemic anti-tumour treatments during the treatment period. 
Baseline data 
Baseline  characteristics  were  similar  in  both  treatment  arms  and  reflected  the  population  of  patients 
with  advanced  gastric  cancer.  The  majority  of  patients  were  male  (70.8%)  and  white  (86.0%).The 
mean  age  was  59  years:  range  18-85  years  and  14.2%  ≥  70  years  of  age.  The  Eastern  Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status was 0 for 41.4% of patients and 1 for 58.6% of patients. 
All  these  patients  had  histological  confirmed  adenocarcinoma:  83.1%  of  the  stomach  and  16.9%  of 
gastro-oesophageal  junction.  The  most  frequent  pathology  was  poorly  differentiated  adenocarcinoma 
in  38.8%  of  patients.  The  overall  incidence  of  diffuse  type  histology  (poorly  differentiated 
adenocarcinoma,  signet-ring  cell  carcinoma  and/or  mucinous  adenocarcinoma)  was  57.3%  and 
metastatic disease was present in 95.7% and 4.2% had locally advanced disease. Most frequently were 
lesions in lymph nodes, stomach and liver.  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 41/67
 
 
 
Table 5 Demographics and Baseline characteristics (as treated population, FLAGS study) 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 42/67
 
 
 
 
 
Table  6  Tumour  characteristics  at  baseline  –  on-site  assessments  (as  treated  population, 
FLAGS study) 
Numbers analysed 
Of  the  1053  randomized  patients,  1029  (97.7%)  were  included  in  the  Full  Analysis  Set  (FAS),  521 
(98.9%) in the CS arm and 508 (96.6%) in the CF arm.  
The cut-off date for survival analysis was 07 March 2008 (12 months after last patient randomised). 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  results  for  the  primary  endpoint  overall  survival  are  shown  in  the  table  below.  The 
Teysuno+cisplatin  arm  was  considered  to  be  non-inferior  to  the  5-FU+cisplatin  arm  with  respect  to 
overall survival. The median follow-up was 18.3 months (range 12.1-31.8).  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 43/67
 
 
 
 
Table 7 Endpoints S-1301/FLAGS study 
Primary endpoint  Arm 1 
Teysuno+cisplatin 
Arm 2  
5-FU+cisplatin 
Statistics 
Median overall 
survival  
All randomised 
Median overall 
survival 
Full analysis set 
Median overall 
survival 
Per protocol* 
Secondary endpoint 
Progression free 
survival 
Overall response 
8.5 months (n=527) 
95% CI 7.9,9.3 
7.9 months (n=526) 
95% CI 7.2,8.5 
HR 0.94  
95% CI 0.82,1.07 
8.6 months (n=521) 
95% CI 7.9,9.5 
7.9 months (n=508) 
95% CI 7.2,8.5 
HR 0.92  
95% CI 0.80,1.05 
8.6 months (n=498) 
95% CI 7.9,9.5 
7.9 months (n=476) 
95% CI 7.2,8.5 
4.8 months 
5.5 months 
29.1% 
(117/402 evaluable 
patients) 
31.9% 
(123/385 evaluable 
patients) 
HR 0.91  
95% CI 0.80,1.05 
p=0.1983 
HR 0.99 
95% CI 0.86, 1.14; 
p=0.9158 
95% CI -9.3,3.6 
p=0.3952  
*Full analysis set excluding patients with violations of study entry criteria. 
Figure 2. Survival (FAS population) – study S1301/FLAGS 
The overall response rate in the Teysuno+cisplatin group was 29.1% and 31.9% in the 5-FU+cisplatin. 
Statistically  superiority  of  Teysuno+cisplatin  did  not  reach  more  than  15%  difference  and  thereby  it 
was considered to be non-inferior. 
The PFS was 4.8 months in the Teysuno+cisplatin and 5.5 months in the 5-FU+cisplatin, however this 
difference in PFS was not statistically significant (see table 8).  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 44/67
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
T able 8 Progression free survival – Independent Reader Assessment (FAS, FLAGS study) 
A sensitivity analysis for PFS based on all response assessments (without exclusion for missed visits) 
through 07 March 2008 and counting initiation of antitumor therapy or death through 07 March 2008 
as progression events, showed similar results. 
The  relative  risk  of  Teysuno+cisplatin  versus  5-FU+cisplatin  across  the  multiple  efficacy,  clinical 
benefit, patient-reported outcomes and clinical management such as need for concomitant medications 
showed  similar  effects  as  observed  for  overall  survival. As  a  result  of  oral administration  of  Teysuno, 
this group had a lower number of hospitalisations (1187 versus 1983). The Teysuno+cisplatin regimen 
demonstrated  an  advantage  relative  to  5-FU  +  cisplatin  with  respect  to  performance  status,  weight 
loss, time to worsening in patients reported outcomes of physical and emotional well-being.  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 45/67
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.Forest Plot of Relative Risk of Treatment Effect on Efficacy, Clinical Benefit, and 
Patient-reported Outcomes Parameters  
(Full Analysis Set) – S-1301/FLAGS 
Efficacy Parameters
Overall Survival
PFS, In depen den t Assessmen t
PFS, In vestigator Assessm en t
TTF, In depen den t Assessmen t
TTF, In vestigator Assessmen t
ORR, Indepe nden t Assessmen t
ORR, Inve stigator Assessm en t
Time to Non -Study An ti-Tumor The rapy
Clin ical Bene fit Param eters
Time to W orsen ing Performan ce Status
Time to >5%  W eigh t Decrease
Time to W orsen ing An orexia
FACT-G a: Time to W orsen in g Param eters
Trial Outcome In dex
Ph ysical W ell-Bein g Subscale
Social/Family W ell-Bein g Subscale
Em otional W e ll-Be in g Subscale
Fun ction al W ell-Being Subscale
Addition al G astric Can cer Con cerns Subscale
Concomitan t M edication  Param eters
An ti-Diarrh eal M e dication  U se (Relative Risk )
Colon y Stimulatin g Factor U se (Relative Risk )
Favors
S-1
Favors
5-FU
Patien ts with  Even ts,
Total Patients,
Relative Risk  [95%  CI]
886, 1029, 0.92 [0.80, 1.05]
762, 1029, 0.99 [0.86, 1.14]
839, 1029, 0.99 [0.86, 1.13]
999, 1029, 0.87 [0.77, 0.99]
999, 1029, 0.86 [0.76, 0.97]
240, 787, 1.04 [0.95, 1.14]
300, 871, 1.00 [0.91, 1.10]
380, 1029, 0.84 [0.69, 1.03]
553, 1029, 0.91 [0.77, 1.07]
597, 1029, 0.75 [0.64, 0.88]
449, 1029, 0.86 [0.71, 1.03]
391, 911, 0.90 [0.74, 1.10]
441, 911, 0.79 [0.66, 0.95]
398, 910, 0.95 [0.78, 1.16]
298, 911, 0.82 [0.65, 1.02]
403, 911, 0.91 [0.75, 1.11]
361, 911, 0.92 [0.75, 1.13]
404, 1029, 0.60 [0.51, 0.70]
184, 1029, 0.51 [0.38, 0.67]
0.38
0.5
0.75
1/1.1
1
1.1
1.16
Relative Risk  (S1:5-FU ) [95%  CI]
Ancillary analyses 
In order to address the concern that the increased toxicity-related mortality and discontinuations in the 
5-FU+cisplatin  arm  due  to  a  higher  cisplatin  dose  may  have  contributed  to  an  overestimation  of 
efficacy  and  safety  in  the  Teysuno+cisplatin  arm  the  applicant  performed  a  comparison  between 
Teysuno+cisplatin  and  5-FU+cisplatin  in  time  to  either  death  due  to  myelosuppression  or 
discontinuation due to myelosuppression-related symptoms and a sensitivity analysis was additionally 
performed by the applicant. Based on these data submitted the following Kaplan-Maier curve for time 
to discontinuation/death was generated: 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 46/67
 
 
 
 
 
The time to  discontinuation (Teysuno+cisplatin vs. 5-FU+cispaltin) has been observed  with 22 vs. 13 
(difference  9  days)  at  the  first  quartile,  42  vs.  29  (difference  13  days)  at  the  median  and  77  vs.  55 
days (difference 22 days) at the last quantile. Although the time to discontinuation is generally larger 
in  the  Teysubo+cisplatin  arm,  the  difference  is  so  small  that  it  is  unlikely  that  a  shorter  time  to 
myelosuppression deaths/discontinuations drive the (non-inferiority) effect of Teysuno compared to the 
comparator. 
Summary Statistics for Time to Myelosuppression-related  
Table 9: 
Treatment Discontinuation and/or Death 
Treatment Arm 
N* 
Median (mos) 
Minimum (mos) 
Maximum (mos) 
CF100 
CS 
21 
14 
0.95 
1.38 
0.43 
0.26 
6.97 
8.29 
*N reflects only patients with myelosuppression related events 
Table 10: 
End of Month 
CS 
CF100 
Difference 
Survival Probabilities (%) without a Myelosuppression-related event 
1 
98.8 
97.6 
1.2 
2 
98.4 
96.4 
2.0 
3 
97.6 
95.9 
1.7 
4 
97.3 
95.6 
1.7 
5 
97.3 
95.6 
1.7 
6 
96.9 
95.6 
1.3 
7 
96.9 
94.6 
2.3 
8 
96.9 
94.6 
2.3 
9 
95.9 
94.6 
1.3 
Furthermore,  a  sensitivity  analysis  of  the  potential  effect  of  myelosuppression-related  events  on 
Overall  Survival  has  been  performed.  The  Teysuno+cisplatin  arm  maintained  all  its  toxic  deaths  and 
discontinuations  as  they  occurred,  but  the  5-FU+cisplatin  arm  had  the  patients  with  toxic  deaths 
censored  at  the  time  they  occurred  and  the  patients  with  discontinuations  had  an  overall  survival 
censoring time imputed for them based on the survival distribution from the remaining 5-FU+cisplatin 
patients who did not experience a myelosuppression-related toxic death or discontinuation (Table 11: 
Analysis  2).  It  was  discussed  by  the  applicant  that  this  scenario  would  disproportionately  favour  the 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 47/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11: 
on Overall Survival 
Imputations 
5-FU+cisplatin arm. In this analysis the Teysuno+cisplatin median OS remained at 8.6 months versus 
a  median  OS  of  8.2  months  for  the  5-FU+cisplatin arm  with  a  hazard  ratio  of  0.96  with  a  95%  CI  of 
0.84  to  1.09.  These  outcomes  are  similar  to  those  of  the  original  analysis  observed,  where  no  actual 
values were imputed or censored (Table 10:  Analysis 1).  
The  applicant  suggested  that  a  more  balanced  analysis  to  assess  the  potential  effect  of 
myelosuppression-related events on OS would be to apply the same censoring and imputation rules for 
myelosuppression-related  events  in  both  arms  (Table  9  –  Analysis  3).  In  this  sensitivity  analysis  the 
median OS for the Teysuno+cisplatin arm was 8.8 months and for the 5-FU+cisplatin arm 8.2 months 
with a HR of 0.91 and a 95% CI of 0.80 to 1.04.  
Sensitivity Analysis of the Potential Effect of Myelosuppression-Related Events 
Imputed 
n 
CS 
median 
CF100 
median 
HR [95% CI] 
1  No imputations – Original primary analysis for 
0 
8.6 
7.9 
OS 
2  CF100 DCs censoring imputed* 
CF100 deaths censored at actual Death Date 
No imputations for CS arm 
3  CF100 DCs censoring imputed* 
CF100 deaths censored at actual death date 
CS DCs censoring imputed* 
CS deaths censored at actual death date 
6 
15 
6 
15 
10 
4 
8.6 
8.2 
8.8 
8.2 
0.92 [0.80, 
1.05] 
0.96 [0.84, 
1.09] 
0.91 [0.80, 
1.04] 
*Censoring times were derived from sampling the survival distribution of the CF100 or CS arm, as 
applicable, derived after excluding these patients with myelosuppression related event (see 
Appendix A for details) 
Summary of main study 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 12: Summary of Efficacy for trial TPU-S1301 
Title:  
An  Open-Label,  Multicenter,  Randomized,  Phase  3  Study  of  S-1  in  Combination  with  Cisplatin 
Compared  Against  5-FU  in  Combination  with  Cisplatin  in  Patients  with  Advanced  Gastric  Cancer 
Previously  Untreated  with  Chemotherapy  for  Advanced  Disease  (First-Line  Advanced  Gastric  Cancer 
Study [FLAGS]) 
Study identifier 
TPU-S1301 
Design 
This  was  an  open-label, 
international,  multicenter,  two-arm,  parallel, 
randomized, Phase 3 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of CS versus CF 
in  patients  with  advanced  gastric  cancer  previously  untreated  with 
chemotherapy for advanced disease. 
The study was designed to compare the overall survival (OS) of patients with 
advanced  gastric  cancer  receiving  CS  therapy  to  those  receiving  5-FU  + 
cisplatin  (CF)  and  to  test  for  statistical  superiority  in  OS  of  the  CS  regimen 
compared to the CF regimen. 
Duration of main phase: 
Patients received study treatment until 
progression of disease (PD), unacceptable 
toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or other 
reason for discontinuation. Cisplatin treatment 
in both study arms was limited to 6 cycles. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 48/67
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase: 
Date of first enrolment: 
Not applicable 
18 May 2005 
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority (switch from superiority to non-inferiority) 
Treatments groups 
Arm A 
Arm B 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Teysuno  25  mg/m2  orally  twice  daily  (BID) 
from Day 1 through Day 21 every 4 weeks.  
Cisplatin  75  mg/m2  intravenously  (IV) as  a  1- 
to 3-hour infusion on Day 1 every 4 weeks 
5-FU  1000  mg/m2/24  hours  was  administered 
IV  by  continuous  infusion  over  120  hours  (on 
Days 1 through 5) every 4 weeks. 
Cisplatin  100  mg/m2  IV  as  a  1-  to  3-hour 
infusion on Day 1 
Overall Survival 
Secondary 
endpoint 
other  
endpoint 
Survival data cut-off: 07 March 2008 
Overall  response  rate  and  progression  free 
survival  
See explanation in the text. 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
other: Full Analysis Set 
Treatment group 
Arm A  
Arm B 
Number of 
subject 
Overall Survival 
(months) 
(Median) 
521 
508 
8.6  
7.9  
Primary endpoint  Comparison 
Arm A v. Arm B 
groups 
HR 
.94 
95% CI 
.80; 1.05 
P-value (logrank)  0.1983 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Treatment effects on overall survival were consistent between patient’s subgroups. Subgroup analysis 
of  renal  function  and  AEs  in  the  S-1301/FLAGS  study  showed  no  differences  in  patients  with  normal 
renal function compared to patients with mild renal impairment. There were no differences of ≥ 5% in 
incidence of individual grade ≥ 3 (S)AEs between the subgroups. Within the Teysuno+cisplatin group 
there  were  no  differences  of  ≥  5%  in  incidence  between  patients  with  normal  and  mild  renal 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 49/67
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impairment. In the 5-FU + cisplatin group differences of ≥ 5% in incidence of ≥ 3 grade AEs was only 
seen for asthenia (4.3% in the normal versus 10.7%) in the mild renal impairment group.  
Supportive studies 
There were 3 supportive studies (91023038/ACTS-GS study, JCOG 9912 study and 91023939/SPIRITS 
study) submitted with the application.  
The  91023038/ACTS-GS  study  was  an  open-label,  randomised,  2-arm  parallel-group  phase  3  study 
with  1059  patients  conducted  at  109  sites  in  Japan.  It  compared  Teysuno  to  observation  only  as 
postoperative  adjuvant  treatment  of  patients  with  stage  II,  IIIA  or  IIIB  gastric  cancer.  The  Teysuno 
dose  of  40  mg/m2  was  administered  two  times  a  day  for  28  days  followed  by  14  days  of  no 
chemotherapy  and  repeated  every  6  weeks  during  the  first  year  after  surgery.  The  results  for  the 
primary endpoint survival and the secondary endpoint relapse free survival are presented in the table 
below  (table  13).  Teysuno  adjuvant  therapy  was  considered  to  be  superior  to  surgery  alone  in 
prolonging survival in gastric cancer patients who underwent curative resection.  
Table 13 Endpoints study 91023038/ACTS-GS study 
Primary endpoint 
3-year survival rate (primary 
endpoint) 
3-year relapse free survival 
(Secondary endpoint) 
Arm 1 
Teysuno-
group 
80.5% 
Arm 2  
No chemotherapy 
group 
70.1% 
72.2% 
60.1% 
HR 
95% CI 
HR 
0.68 
HR 
0.62 
0.52, 0.87; 
p=0.002 
0.50, 0.77; 
P<0.0001 
In  the  JCOG  9912  Phase  III  study  704  patients  were  enrolled  at  34  sites  in  Japan  with  histologically 
confirmed  unresectable  or  recurrent  gastric  adenocarcinoma  with  no  history  of  chemotherapy  or 
radiation therapy for gastric cancer with the exception of adjuvant chemotherapy with one regimen of 
oral fluoropyrimidine (other than Teysuno) completed at least 6 months prior to the study. The three 
arms  in  this  study  were  Teysuno  monotherapy  (40 mg/m2  BID),  5-FU  continuous  infusion  or  CPT-11 
(irinotecan)  +  cisplatin.  For  the  patients  in  the  Teysuno  arm,  the  dose  was  40  mg/m2  administered 
BID for 28 days followed by 14 days of no chemotherapy and repeated every 6 weeks. The study was 
designed to demonstrated superiority of irinotecan + cisplatin compared to 5-FU and the non-inferiority 
of Teysuno compared to 5-FU for the primary endpoint of survival (follow-up 2 years).  
Teysuno  was  observed  to  be  non  inferior  to  5-FU  with  respect  to  overall  survival  and  Teysuno  was 
observed to be superior to 5-FU regarding the secondary endpoint (progression free survival), data are 
presented in the tables below. 
Table 14 Endpoints JCOG 9912 study 
Arm 2  
Arm 1 
Primary 
5-FU continuous 
S-1 
endpoint 
infusion 
10.8 months 
Overall survival 
11.4 months 
Arm 3  
Irinotecan + 
cisplatin 
12.3 months 
1-year survival 
rate 
2-year survival 
rate 
47.9% 
44.0% 
52.5% 
21% 
14% 
18% 
HR 
95% CI 
0.83 
0.68 
0.68, 1,01; 
p=0.001 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 50/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 Progression-Free Survival and Overall Response Results JCOG9912 study 
The  91023939/SPIRITS  study  was  a  phase  3  open-label,  multicentre,  randomised,  2-arm  study. 
Patients  in  the  Teysuno-arm  received  40  mg/m2  Teysuno  two  times  daily  for  28  days,  followed  by 
14 days  of  no  chemotherapy  and  repeated  every  6  weeks.  Patients  in  the  Teysuno+cisplatin  arm 
received  40  mg/m2  Teysuno  administered  two  times  daily  for  21  days,  followed  by  14  days  of  no 
chemotherapy in combination with cisplatin 60 mg/m2 infused iv on day 8 and repeated every 5 weeks 
thereafter.  The  study  was  designed  to  demonstrate  superior  efficacy  of  Teysuno  +  cisplatin  regimen 
compared to Teysuno monotherapy for the primary endpoint overall survival (table 15). Patients were 
followed for 24 months.  
Table 16 Endpoints 91023939/SPIRITS study 
Primary endpoint 
Arm 1 
S-1 
Median survival time  11.0 months 
Arm 2  
S-1 + cisplatin 
13.0 months 
1-year survival rate 
2-year survival rate 
Secondary endpoint 
Progression free 
survival 
Overall response 
46.7% 
15.3% 
54.1% 
23.6% 
4.0 months 
6.0 months 
31.1% 
54.0% 
statistics 
HR 0.77 
95% CI 0.61, 0.98; p=0.04 
HR 0.57 
95% CI 0.44, 0.73; p<0.0001 
95% CI  
22.5, 40.9 (arm 1) 
43.0, 64.8 (arm 2); p=0.002 
In  these  supportive  studies  a  similar  efficacy  for  Teysuno  in  overall  survival  compared  to  5-FU  was 
observed  when  both  products  were  used  as  monotherapy.  Teysuno  was  more  effective  compared  to 
placebo  however  Teysuno  alone  was  less  effective  then  Teysuno  +  cisplatin.  Teysuno+cisplatin  in 
comparison to 5-FU+cisplatin was only tested in the pivotal study S-1301/FLAGS. 
2.5.3.  Discussion and conclusions on clinical efficacy 
Non-inferiority  was  observed  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  study  for  Teysuno+cisplatin  compared  to 
5-FU+cisplatin with respect to overall survival, response rate and progression free survival, taking into 
account a control regimen in which cisplatin 100mg/m2 q4w was applied.  
In  the  pivotal  S1301/FLAGS  study-full  analysis  set  the  median  OS  in  the  Teysuno+cisplatin  arm 
(n=527)  was  8.5  months  (95%  CI  7.9  -  9.3),  and  7.9  months  (95%  CI  7.2  -  8.5)  in  the  control 
5-FU+cisplatin arm (n=526). The HR was 0.92 with 95% CI 0.80 -1.05. When considering the switch 
in  the  pivotal  S-1301/FLAGS  study  design  from  ‘superiority’  to  ‘non-inferiority’  as  acceptable,  the 
resulting  confidence  interval  in  the  HR  suggested  that  deviations  were  reasonably  limited.  Therefore, 
the primary endpoint was considered met. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 51/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  this  study  the  median  PFS  showed  4.8  and  5.5  months  for  Teysuno+cisplatin  and  5-FU+cisplatin 
respectively, (HR 0.99, 95% CI 0.86 - 1.14, p=0.9158), and ORR was 29.1% and 31.9% respectively 
(95% CI -9.3 - 3.6, p=0.3952). Results for the secondary endpoints of the pivotal study were in line 
with the primary endpoint.  
Furthermore,  Teysuno+cisplatin  versus  5-FU+cisplatin  showed  some  advantage  in  exploratory 
analyses in favour of the Teysuno regimen in terms of clinical parameters.  
However, the efficacy of Teysuno+cisplatin arm compared to the 5-FU+cisplatin arm could have been 
overestimated,  because  more  deaths/discontinuations  due  to  toxicity  (cisplatin  dose  of  100mg/m2)  in 
the  5-FU  arm  were  noted.  Therefore,  additional  sensitivity  analyses  were  provided  to  investigate  to 
what extend the relative efficacy of the Teysuno compared to the 5-FU arm is driven by these excess 
deaths/discontinuations.  Based  on  the  sensitivity  analyses  performed  it  has  been  considered  unlikely 
that  the  myelosuppression  excess  deaths/discontinuations  in  the  5-FU+cisplatin  arm  impacted  on  the 
(non-inferiority) effect of Teysuno compared to the comparator, since the 95%-confidence interval for 
the HR remains under the 1.10 non-inferiority margin.  
The  value  of  the  submitted  supportive  Japanese  studies  for  a  Western  population  was  considered 
limited  due  to  differences  in  genetics  with  different  dose  regimens  (differences  in  genetic 
polymorphism  of  CYP2A).  The  efficacy  of  Teysuno  in  Japanese  patients  as  seen  in  the  SPIRITS  study 
could  not  be  reached  in  the  FLAGS  study, in  which  the  majority  of  patients  is  Caucasian.  It is  known 
that  the  5-year  overall  survival  after  curative  gastrectomy  for  gastric  cancer  is  markedly  different  in 
the Western countries from that in the Far East countries.  
It is noted that other 5-FU prodrugs, in particular capecitabine, are now widely used fluoropyrimidine 
analogue  as  part  of  triplet  regimen  for  advanced  gastric  cancer  on  the  basis  of  efficacy  and 
convenience  in  clinical  practice.  On  the  basis  of  the  submitted  data  in  the  MAA  Teysuno  cannot  be 
considered as an alternative for capecitabine since direct comparison is lacking.  
The applicant committed to conduct clinical studies to increase the knowledge about the clinical safety 
and efficacy of Teysuno in clinical practice in Advanced Gastric Cancer, i.e. to establish an acceptable 
Teysuno-containing triplet regimen (see Risk Management Plan). 
In conclusion, the clinical efficacy of Teysuno was considered established in combination with cisplatin 
(75  mg/m2)  for  the  treatment  of  advanced  gastric  cancer  where  otherwise  FC  doublet  therapy  is 
indicated. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The main analysis of the safety of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin for the treatment of advanced 
gastric  cancer  in  Western  patients  derived  from  the  Phase  2  study  S1101  and  the  Phase  3  study 
S1301/FLAGS.  This  primary  safety  evaluation  has  been  supported  by  safety  data  from  the  following 
sources; in the submitted studies more than 3500 patients have been treated with Teysuno: 
  The  integrated  safety  analysis  of  Teysuno  monotherapy  based  on  safety  data  from  6  Phase  1 
open-label  studies  (N=157)  in  patients  with  advanced  upper  gastrointestinal  cancer  or  solid 
tumours. 
  The integrated safety analysis of data from 399 patients from Phase 2 and Phase 3 advanced 
gastric  cancer  studies  conducted  in  Japan.  Also  included  have  been  safety  data  from 
529 patients in the phase 3 study of Teysuno as adjuvant therapy for gastric cancer  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 52/67
 
 
 
  Summaries of safety data from other studies in special populations, the Teysuno plus cisplatin 
combination  regimen  in  non-small--cell  lung  cancer  (NSCLC),  cardiac  safety  (QT),  relative 
bioavailability and other dose regimens. 
  Safety  data  from  a  Post  Marketing  Surveillance  Study  publication  in  4117  advanced  gastric 
cancer patients in Japan. 
  Post marketing safety data reported over 10 years in more than 746,000 patients treated with 
Teysuno alone or in combination for various indications in Japan and South Korea. 
  The  main  analysis  of  safety  in  this  document  are  based  on  the  safety  profile  elaborated  in 
2 clinical 
trials 
(S1301/FLAGS  and  S1101  Phase  2) 
in  Western  patients  with 
chemotherapynaïve advanced gastric cancer who were administered the proposed Teysuno and 
cisplatin dosing regimen.  
Adverse events  
The safety of Teysuno monotherapy has been mainly based on phase 1 studies. There were 6 phase 1 
open-label  studies  (n=157)  conducted  in  US/Europe  in  patients  with  upper  advanced  gastric  cancer 
(S1102) or solid tumours (S1105, S1106, S1107, S1108, and S1110) who received Teysuno at doses 
of  25 mg/m2  (n=11),  30  mg/m2  (n=143),  or  35  mg/m2  (n=3)  twice  daily.  Most  common  (>10%) 
treatment-related  Adverse  Events  (AEs)  (all  grades)  reported  in  these  studies  were  nausea  (35%), 
fatigue (32%), diarrhoea (30%), vomiting (17%), anorexia (18%), rash (17%), increased lacrimation 
(12% and 1.9% of this was grade ≥ 3) and abdominal pain (10%). Grade ≥ 3 AEs occurred mainly in 
the  system  class  order  of  gastrointestinal  tract;  diarrhoea  (9.6%),  nausea,  vomiting  and  abdominal 
pain (2.5%), stomatitis (1.9%) and dehydration 5.1%.  
In  a  study  comparing  Teysuno  versus  5-FU  (JCOG  9912  study  Japan),  700  patients  received  at  least 
one dose of the study drug. Discontinuation of the study due to AEs occurred in 9 patients with 5-FU, 
14 patients with Teysuno and 14 patients with cisplatin + irinotecan. The most frequent grade 3-4 AEs 
reported  (regardless  of  relationship  with  treatment) were:  anorexia,  hyponatraemia,  nausea, 
diarrhoea. 
Table 17 Grade 3-4 Adverse events 5-FU versus Teysuno monotherapy 
Grade 3-4 AEs 
Anorexia 
Hyponatraemia 
Nausea 
diarrhoea 
Neutrophil decrease 
Anaemia 
leucopenia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Infection with neutropenia 
5-FU 
12.5% 
6.5% 
6.9% 
0.4% 
1.3% 
15.5% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
Teysuno concomitant with cisplatin 
Teysuno 
12.4% 
5.2% 
5.6% 
7.7% 
5.6% 
12.8% 
0.9% 
0% 
0.4% 
Cisplatin + irinotecan 
32.9% 
22.6% 
20.5% 
9.0% 
65.0% 
39.3% 
41.5% 
9.4% 
7.7% 
The  safety  analysis  of  Teysuno  and  concomitant  administration  of  cisplatin  has  been  based  on  the 
S-1101  phase  2  study  and  the  pivotal  study  S-1301/FLAGS  in  which  Teysuno  25  mg/m2  was  given 
twice  daily  (BID)  for  21  consecutive  days  followed  by  a  7-day  recovery  period  combined  with 
75 mg/m2 cisplatin iv administered on day 1 and repeated every 28 days. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 53/67
 
 
 
 
In  the  S-1301/FLAGS  study  521  patients  received  Teysuno+cisplatin  for  a  total  of  2788  cycles  and 
508 patients received 5-FU+cisplatin for a total of 2469 cycles. For both groups the median number of 
cycles was 4.0.  
The most frequently reported AEs in these two studies in patients receiving Teysuno+cisplatin were all 
of gastro-intestinal nature. Commonly reported AEs were: anaemia, neutropenia, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
abdominal  pain,  weight  decrease,  anorexia  and  fatigue,  all  AEs  already  known  to  be  associated  with 
fluoropyrimidines and/or cisplatin. Overall the incidence of AEs was 5% lower in the Teysuno+cisplatin 
group.  
Table 18 Number (%) of patients with treatment-emergent AEs by MedDRA SOC in order of 
descending frequency (all cycles): S1301/FLAGS + S1101 Phase 2 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 54/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  overall  incidence  of  AEs  grade  ≥  3  was  lower  in  the  Teysuno+cisplatin  group  (53.2%)  versus 
75.0%  in  the  5-FU+cisplatin  group.  For  neutropenia,  leucopenia,  febrile  neutropenia,  stomatitis  and 
mucosal  inflammation  the  differences  between  the  Teysuno  group  and  the  5-FU  group  were  ≥  5%  in 
favour  of  Teysuno+cisplatin  use.  In  both  groups,  the  majority  of  AEs  grade  ≥  3  resolved  during  the 
treatment period or after discontinuation of the treatment. 
Table 19 Incidences of important adverse events in FLAGS study 
Overall grade ≥ 3 AEs 
Neutropenia 
Leucopenia 
Febrile neutropenia 
stomatitis 
Mucosal inflammation 
grade ≥ 3 stomatitis/mucositis 
grade ≥ 3 diarrhoea 
All grades diarrhoea 
Use of anti-diarrhoeal medication 
Use of G-CSF 
grade ≥ 3 Anorexia/weight loss 
Median time to loose body weight*  
grade ≥ 3 fatigue 
Cisplatin toxicity 
Teysuno + 
cisplatin 
53.2% 
18.4% 
7.1% 
1.7% 
1.3% 
0.8% 
2.1% 
4.8% 
29.2% 
29.6% 
12.1% 
10.6% 
3.9 months 
18.6% 
5-FU + cisplatin 
75.0% 
39.2% 
13.4% 
6,9% 
13.2% 
7.7% 
21.5% 
4.5% 
38.4% 
49.2% 
23.8% 
12.6% 
2.5 months 
21.3% 
The  Teysuno+cisplatin  arm  had  lower  incidences  of  abnormalities  in  creatinine,  impairment  of  renal 
clearance and AEs associated with renal impairment. This is consistent with the lower dose of cisplatin 
which  was  used  in  this  regimen.  This  was  also  the  case  for  ototoxicity,  peripheral  neuropathy  and 
alopecia, for the same reason.   
Teysuno toxicity 
Hyperbilirubinaemia,  palmar-plantar  erythrodysaesthesia  and  increased  lacrimation  were  frequently 
associated  with  the  Teysuno+cisplatin  arm.  Hyperbilirubinaemia  could  not  be  associated  with  hepatic 
toxicity since ALT and AST were similar in both treatment regimens in the pivotal study (table 19).  
Table 20 Teysuno toxicity 
grade ≥ 3 hyperbilirubinaemia 
6.5% 
FU+cisplatin 
3.6% 
Teysuno+cisplatin  5-
All grades  
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia* 
Lacrimation increased 
5.4% 
6.1% 
2.6% 
1.2% 
RR 1.79 
95% CI 1.02, 3.13, 
p<0.05 
RR 2.1 
95% CI 1.10,4.01, 
p<0.05 
RR 5.20 
95% CI 2.19, 12.33, 
p<0.01 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
In  the  Phase  3  study  the  incidence  of  deaths  was  similar  in  both  treatment  arms.  In  the 
Teysuno+cisplatin arm 443 patients  died (85%)  and 445 (87.6%) patients died in the 5-FU+cisplatin 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 55/67
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
arm.  Deaths  were  related  to  disease  progression  and  myelosuppression  due  to  chemotherapeutic 
agents.  Deaths  related  to  disease  progression  of  malignancy  were  72.4%  in  the  Teysuno-arm  and 
73.0%  in  the  5-FU-arm.  Deaths  related  to  myelosuppression  were  observed  in  0.8%  of 
Teysuno+cisplatin  versus  2.8%  in  the  5-FU+cisplatin  arm  (RR  0.28,  95%  CI  0.09,  0.84,  p<0.05). 
Death  due  to  toxicity  from  study  medication  was  13/521  (2.5%)  in  Teysuno  group  versus  25/508 
(4.9%) in the 5-FU group. All deaths due to toxicity are depicted in table 20. Slightly more deaths due 
to myelosuppression were seen in the 5-FU treatment arm.   
Table 21 All deaths due to toxicity 
All deaths due to toxicity 
Total deaths 
Death related to myelosuppression 
Death other than myelosuppression 
Septic shock* 
Neutropenic sepsis* 
Urosepsis* 
Neutropenia/febrile neutropenia* 
Thrombocytopenia 
(acute) renal failure 
Gastric perforation/haemorrhage 
Diarrhoea 
Cerebral vascular accident 
Cardiac failure 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Pulmonary embolism 
Death (unknown) drug toxicity 
*Toxic death due to myelosuppression 
Teysuno + cisplatin 
13 (2.5%) 
4 (0.8%) 
9 (1.7%) 
1 
2 
0 
1 
0 
1 
4 
1 
2 
1 
0 
0 
0 
5-FU + cisplatin 
25 (4.9%) 
14 (2.8%) 
11 (2.2%) 
9 
3 
1 
1 
1 
5 
2 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
In  the  S1101  Phase  2  study,  4  patients  died  within  30  days  after  their  last  administration  of  study 
medication:  1  due  to  malignant  disease,  1  due  to  drug  toxicity  (Grade  5  diarrhoea),  and  2  due  to 
unrelated SAEs (aortic aneurysm rupture [n=1] and respiratory failure [n=1]). Two deaths (unrelated 
to study treatment) were reported more than 30 days after the last administration of study medication 
(acute renal failure [n=1] and respiratory failure [n=1]). 
Serious adverse events 
Serious AEs occurred in a significant proportion of patients (CS arm: 49.3%; CF arm 48.8%). Of them, 
20.5% and 29.7% were reported as treatment-related in the CS and CF groups, respectively. The type 
and incidence of serious adverse events have been in line with what would be expected for the class of 
agents  and  treatment  schedules  tested,  and  favour  the  CS  arm.  Most  commonly  reported  treatment-
related  SAEs  were  myelosuppression  (anaemia,  neutropenia,  thrombocytopenia,  febrile  neutropenia), 
stomatitis,  nausea,  vomiting  and  dehydration.  Significant  differences  in  treatment-related  SAEs 
between  the  2  treatment  groups  were  observed  in  neutropenia  (CS,  1.5%;  CF,  6.1%),  febrile 
neutropenia (CS, 1.5%; CF, 6.1%), and stomatitis (CS, 0.6%; CF, 4.5%). Of note, toxic deaths were 
significantly lower in the CS arm (2.5% of patients) than in the CF arm (4.9% of patients). A relevant 
proportion  of  them  were  related  to  myelosuppression  and  its  consequences,  i.e.  septic  shock, 
neutropenic sepsis or febrile neutropenia (CS: 0.8%; CF 2.8%).  
Laboratory findings 
In  the  pivotal  Phase  3  study,  most  reported  abnormalities  in  laboratory  findings  were  seen  in  the 
5-FU+cisplatin  group.  Grade  ≥  3  changes  (decrease  or  increase)  from  baseline  were  similar  in  both 
groups regarding serum albumin, calcium, magnesium and sodium. The most commonly encountered 
haematological abnormalities were neutropenia and leucopenia. They occurred more frequently in the 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 56/67
 
 
 
 
CF arm (63.6% grade 3-4 neutropenia and 33.2% grade 3-4 leucopenia) than in the CS arm (32.3% 
grade  3-4  neutropenia  and  13.7%  grade  3-4  leucopenia).  Thrombocytopenia  was  also  higher  among 
CF  treated  patients  (13.5%  vs.  8.3%  grade  3-4)  and  there  were  no  significant  differences  in  the 
incidence of anaemia. Data on laboratory data are depicted in table 21. 
Table 22 Clinical laboratory data in the pivotal study S-1301/FLAGS 
grade ≥ 3 haemoglobin* abnormalities 
grade ≥ 3 neutropenia* 
grade ≥ 3 granulocytopenia, leucopenia, 
neutropenia, decreased neutrophil count, 
decreased WBC 
Median time to onset of leucopenia 
grade ≥ 3 leukocytes abnormalities 
grade ≥ 3 platelets abnormalities 
Grade 4 platelets abnormalities 
grade ≥ 3 thrombocytopenia 
Time to onset of thrombocytopenia 
grade ≥ 3 ALT/AST abnormalities 
grade ≥ 3 bilirubin abnormalities 
grade ≥ 3 creatinine abnormalities 
grade ≥ 3 phosphorous abnormalities 
grade ≥ 3 hypokalaemia 
grade ≥ 3 hyperkalaemia 
*that worsened from baseline by at least 1 grade. 
Safety in special populations 
Teysuno + cisplatin 
20.7% 
32.3% 
24.6% 
5-FU + cisplatin 
20.9% 
63.6% 
49.6% 
52 days 
13.7% 
8.3% 
2.5% 
5.8% 
95 days 
2.1% 
6.5% 
0.8% 
5.8% 
4.6% 
1.0% 
22 days 
33.2% 
13.5% 
5.8% 
10.4% 
18 days 
2.4% 
3.6% 
2.2% 
13.9% 
15.0% 
6.7% 
Subgroup  analyses  of  AEs  in  the  S1301/FLAGS  study  (including  ECOG  performance  status,  gender, 
race,  and  renal  function)  did  not  indicate  any  overall  trends  within  the  Teysuno  +  cisplatin  group.  In 
general, the difference in incidence of Grade > 3 adverse events observed for the Teysuno + cisplatin 
group compared to the 5-FU + cisplatin group was consistent across patient subgroups. However, the 
overall  incidence  of  Grade  >  3  adverse  events  was  somewhat  higher  in  patients  >  70  years  of  age 
compared to those <70 years old in both treatment groups. 
Leucopenia,  neutropenia,  thrombocytopenia,  diarrhoea,  asthenia,  hypokalaemia  and  hyponatraemia, 
asthenia, disease progression, dehydration and hypokalaemia were more seen in older patients in the 
Teysuno  group  (≥  5%  difference  in  incidence).  Similar  differences  were  observed  in  the  5-FU  older 
population.  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 57/67
 
 
 
 
Table  23  Treatment-emergent,  treatment-related  AEs  (all  grades)  and  number  (%)  of 
patients with maximum NCI CTCAE Grade >3 by subgroup, all cycles: S1301/FLAGS+S1101 
Phase 2 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Coumarin-derivative anticoagulant  
The activity of a coumarin-derivative anticoagulant may be enhanced by Teysuno. In 3 patients (study 
S1301;  study  S1112;  study  S1203)  a  clinically  significant  increase  of  INR  was  observed  associated 
with  gastrointestinal  bleeding.  Therefore,  patients  receiving  oral  coumarin-derivative  anticoagulant 
therapy must have their anticoagulant response (INR or prothrombin time) monitored closely and the 
anticoagulant dose adjusted accordingly. 
Sorivudine, brivudine, and uracil  
Sorivudine  or  its  chemically-related  analogues  such  as  brivudine  irreversibly inhibit  dihydropyrimidine 
dehydrogenase (DPD), resulting in a significant increase in 5-FU exposure. This may lead to increased 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 58/67
 
 
 
 
clinically  significant  fluoropyrimidine-related  toxicities  with  potentially  fatal  outcomes.  Teysuno  must 
not be used with sorivudine or brivudine or within 4 weeks of the last dose of sorivudine or brivudine. 
Other fluoropyrimidine derivatives 
Co-administration  of  other  fluoropyrimidine  derivatives  can  lead  to  additive  toxicities  as  observed  in 
one patient, and is therefore contraindicated.  
CYP2A6 inhibitors 
As CYP2A6 is the major enzyme responsible for the conversion of tegafur to 5-FU, co-administration of 
a known CYP2A6 inhibitor and Teysuno should be avoided as effectiveness of S-1 could be decreased. 
Folinate/folinic acid 
No data are available on the concomitant use of folinic acid with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin. 
Caution is advised as folinic acid is known to enhance the activity of 5-FU. 
Nitroimidazoles, including metronidazole and misonidazole 
No  data  are  available  on  the  concomitant  use  of  nitromidazoles  with  Teysuno  in  combination  with 
cisplatin.  However,  nitromidazoles  may  reduce  clearance  of  5-FU  and  thus  increase  plasma  levels  of 
5-FU. Caution is advised as co-administration may increase the toxicity of Teysuno. 
Methotrexate 
No  data  are  available  on  the  concomitant  use  of  methotrexate  with  Teysuno  in  combination  with 
cisplatin.  However,  polyglutamated  methotrexate  inhibits  thymidylate  synthase  and  dihydrofolate 
reductase,  potentially  increasing  cytotoxicity  of  5-FU.  Caution  is  advised  as  co-administration  may 
increase the toxicity of Teysuno. 
Clozapine 
No data are available on the concomitant use of clozapine with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin. 
However, due to possible additive pharmacodynamic effects (myelotoxicity), caution is advised as co-
administration may increase the risk and severity of haematologic toxicity of Teysuno.  
Cimetidine 
No data are available on the concomitant use of cimetidine with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin.  
However, co-administration may decrease clearance and, thus increase plasma levels of 5-FU. Caution 
is advised as co-administration may increase the toxicity of Teysuno. 
Other 
Based  on  preclinical  data,  allopurinol  may  decrease  antitumor  activity  due  to  suppression  of 
phosphorylation  of  5-FU  and  flucytosine  may  increase  toxicity  due  to  increase  in  plasma  5-FU 
concentration.  Therefore,  administration  of  these  medicinal  products  concurrently  with  S-1  should  be 
avoided. 
Phenytoin 
Fluoropyrimidines may increase phenytoin plasma concentration when administered concomitantly with 
phenytoin  causing  phenytoin  toxicity.  A  spontaneous  report  of  a  73-year-old  female  patient  with 
gastric  cancer  and  metastases  to  the  liver,  abdominal  cavity,  lymph  nodes  and  a  history  of  vomiting 
caused  by  phenytoin  sodium  who  experienced  severe  anorexia  and  nausea/vomiting  after 
administration  of  S-1  plus  cisplatin  and  concomitant  use  of  phenytoin  sodium  have  been  received. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 59/67
 
 
 
Above  the  therapeutic  range,  increased  plasma  Phenytoin  concentrations  have  been  associated  with 
CNS side effects such as nystagmus, ataxia, and decreased mentation. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Discontinuations  of  the  study  medication  were  similar  in  both  treatment  groups  and  were  related  to 
commonly known AEs of 5-FU compounds and cisplatin.  
Table 24 Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Discontinuation of study medication due to AEs 
(regardless of relationship with treatment) 
Discontinuation due to treatment related AEs 
Most frequently AEs leading to discontinuation 
(≥ 3 patients) 
Teysuno + cisplatin 
56/521 
10.7% 
31/521 
6.1% 
Neutropenia 4/521 
Renal failure 4/521 
Thrombocytopenia 3/521 
Serious AEs 
Treatment related serious AEs 
Most frequently treatment related serious AEs 
257/521  
49.3% 
107/521 
20.5% 
Anaemia 3.5% 
Vomiting 2.9% 
Dehydration 2.9% 
Nausea 2.7% 
5-FU + cisplatin 
73/508 
14.4% 
51/508 
10.0% 
Acute renal failure 6/508 
Septic shock 5/508 
Fatigue 4/508 
Febrile neutropenia 
3/508 
Stomatitis 3/508 
Peripheral sensory 
neuropathy 3/508 
248/508 
48.8% 
151/8 
29.7% 
Febrile neutropenia 
6.1% 
neutropenia 6.1% 
Dehydration 4.9% 
Anaemia 4.7% 
Stomatitis 4.5% 
Thrombocytopenia 3.3% 
vomiting 3.% 
Post marketing experience 
The  majority  of  post  marketing  experience  to  date  derived  from  spontaneous  reports  from  over 
746,000 patients treated since 1999 with Teysuno in Asia (mainly Japan). There have been very rare 
spontaneous  reports  of  the  following  additional  medically  relevant  Adverse  Drug  Reactions  (ADRs): 
disseminated  intravascular  coagulation  (DIC),  leukoencephalopathy,  anosmia,  parosmia,  corneal 
disorder  including  corneal  erosion,  interstitial  lung  disease,  nail  disorder,  photosensitivity  reaction, 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, rhabdomyolysis, and acute hepatic failure. 
From March 1999 to March 2000, a Post-Marketing Surveillance Study (Study 1011) was conducted in 
Japan in 4177 patients treated with S-1 for gastric cancer. The safety profile was generally similar to 
that  seen  with  Teysuno  and  Teysuno+cisplatin  dosing  regimens  in  the  Japanese  registration  studies. 
The incidence of all AEs was 74.3% and the incidence of Grade ≥3 AEs was 25.0%; the majority of AEs 
(77.0%)  occurred  during  the  first  cycle  of  treatment.  The  major  toxicities  were  leucopenia  (26.0%), 
anorexia (26.4%), and nausea/vomiting (19.3%), which were generally mild. There were <10% Grade 
3  or  4  treatment-related  AEs  and  the  occurrence  of  Grade  3-4  diarrhoea  was  infrequent  (2.0%).  In 
patients  with  lower  creatinine  clearance  (<30  ml/min),  the  incidence  of  hematologic  toxicities 
(leucopenia,  neutropenia,  anaemia,  and  thrombocytopenia)  was  higher  (14/20,  70.0%)  for  all  grades 
and for Grades ≥3 (45.0%) compared with patients with normal creatinine clearance (>80 mL/min) for 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 60/67
 
 
 
 
which incidence was 47.6% (429/1054) and 13.8% (87/1054), respectively. Regardless of a patients’ 
classification by creatinine clearance, in patients who received lower initial doses of Teysuno the overall 
incidence of AEs was at least 17.7% to 28.0% lower.  
2.6.1.  Discussion and conclusions on clinical safety 
The safety data for Teysuno monotherapy derived primarily from the integrated analysis of 6 Phase 1 
open-label  studies  (n=157)  conducted  in  US/Europe  in  patients  with  upper  advanced  gastric  cancer 
(S1102) or solid tumours (S1105, S1106, S1107, S1108, and S1110) who received Teysuno at doses 
of 25 mg/m2 (n=11), 30 mg/m2 (n=143), or 35 mg/m2 (n=3) twice daily. The safety profile of Teysuno 
for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer when given in combination with cisplatin using the dose 
regimen  established  in  US  and  European  patients  (i.e.  25  mg/m2  Teysuno  twice  daily  for 
21 consecutive  days  with  75  mg/m2  cisplatin  administered  in  Day  1,  and  repeated  every  28  days) 
derived  from  the  S1101  Phase  2  and  S1301/FLAGS  studies.  This  safety  database  was  considered 
acceptable  for  an  adequate  characterisation  of  the  drug  safety  profile  in  the  claimed  indication  in  its 
general aspects. 
Overall the reported AEs are commonly known for fluoropyrimidine, they included stomatitis, mucositis 
and  other  gastro-intestinal  toxicity  (i.e.  diarrhoea  and  dehydration).  Treatment-related  bone  marrow 
suppression,  including  neutropenia,  leucopoenia,  thrombocytopenia,  anaemia,  and  pancytopenia,  has 
been  reported  among  patients  treated  with  Teysuno  in  combination with  cisplatin.  The most  common 
treatment-related  ocular  disorders  among  patients  in  studies  in  Europe/United  States  of  America 
(EU/USA) treated with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin were lacrimal disorders (8.8%), including 
increased lacrimation, dry eye, and acquired dacryostenosis (see section 4.8).   
Although  the  overall  AE-profile  of  Teysuno+cisplatin  versus  5-FU+cisplatin  was  claimed  by  the 
applicant  to  favour  the  Teysuno-combination,  some  aspects  required  further  explanation.  In  the 
Teysuno+cisplatin  treatment  the  dose  of  cisplatin  was  75  mg/m2  but  in  the  5-FU+cisplatin  treatment 
the  cisplatin  dose  was  100  mg/m2.  Some  AEs  in  the  latter  group  could  be  related  to  cisplatin  and 
therefore the Teysuno combination seemed more favourable. In addition, incidences of AEs concerning 
myelosuppression  and  GI-toxicity  were  diverse.  One  study  showed  benefit  of  Teysuno  in 
myelosuppressive parameters while the other did not. In addition, the benefit of GI-toxicity of Teysuno 
above  5-FU  was  also  not  clear.  The  incidence  of  all  grades  of  diarrhoea  seemed  to  favour 
Teysuno+cisplatin  compared  to  5-FU+cisplatin.  However,  the  grade  ≥  3  diarrhoea  was  similar  in 
Teysuno  versus  5-FU  in  the  FLAGS  study.  Moreover,  regarding  monotherapy  Teysuno  alone  versus 
5-FU alone (JOCG study) Teysuno showed even higher incidence rates of severe diarrhoea than 5-FU.  
The  applicant  acknowledged  that  based  on  the  pre-clinical  data,  a  significant  decrease  in  the  rate  of 
Grade 3/4 diarrhoea would have been expected. However, a decrease in the rate of overall diarrhoea 
(23%  for  Teysuno+cisplatin  vs.  31%  for  5-FU+cisplatin)  and  in  the  use  of  anti-diarrheal  medications 
(30%  for  Teysuno+cisplatin  vs.  49%  for  5-FU+cisplatin)  was  observed.  As  the  magnitude  of  the 
contributory  effect  of  oteracil  was  observed  less  than  postulated,  the  potential  beneficial  effect  of 
oteracil concerning diarrhoea has not been claimed in the Product Information. 
Furthermore, a sensitivity analysis was performed, as discussed in the efficacy section, regarding the 
time  to  either  death  due  to  myelosuppression  or  discontinuation  due  to  myelosuppression-related 
symptoms. The applicant discussed the time to myelosuppression-related events in the 5-FU+cisplatin 
arm which might have been significantly shorter than the Teysuno+cisplatin arm, thereby affecting the 
efficacy outcomes in the FLAGS trial. The comparison of the time to either death or discontinuation due 
to  a  myelosuppression-related  side  effect  did  not  show  significant  differences  between  the  two  arms 
although the numbers were small. Time to myelosuppression-related treatment discontinuation and/or 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 61/67
 
 
 
death  was  similar  between  the  groups  and  survival  properties  without  a  myelosuppression-related 
event were also similar.  
Discontinuation and death were similar in both groups. Death due to toxicity was slightly higher in the 
5-FU group and related to myelosuppression, which might be mostly related to higher dose of cisplatin 
in this group.  
Teysuno  has  not  been  studied  in  gastric  cancer  patients  with  microsatellite  instability  (MSI).  The 
association  between  5-FU  sensitivity  and  MSI  in  patients  with  gastric  cancer  is  unclear  and  the 
association  between  Teysuno  and  MSI  in  gastric  cancer  is  unknown.  The  applicant  committed  to 
investigate  the  effect  of  tumour  MSI  on  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  Teysuno  in  the  approximately  70 
tissue  samples  remaining  from  the  S1301/FLAGS  PGx  substudy  provided  the  study  is  technically 
feasible. 
In  conclusion,  the  safety  profile  of  Teysuno  in  combination  with  cisplatin  was  accepted  as  a  safe 
alternative chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of patients with advanced gastric cancer. Overall, 
the  adverse  events  reported  for  Teysuno  in  combination  with  cisplatin  in  the  target  population  was 
considered  in  accordance  with  the  class  and  mechanism  of  action  as  well  as  with  baseline 
characteristics of the study population (patients with advanced gastric cancer).  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table 25 Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
activities 
Important identified risks 
Bone marrow suppression 
  Anaemia, neutropenia, 
leucopoenia,   and 
thrombocytopenia 
  Febrile neutropenia and 
neutropenic infection 
  Anaemia (≥ Grade 3) 
associated with bone   marrow 
suppression of any CTC grade 
  Thrombocytopenia (≥ Grade 
3)  
of any CTC grade 
associated with bleeding 
Anaemia (≥ Grade 3) associated 
with bleeding (≥ Grade 2) 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Monitor ongoing clinical 
studies 
Dose recommendations and 
modification for haematologic toxicity 
are discussed in the proposed SPC 
Section 4.2, Posology and method of 
administration; Section 4.3, 
Contraindications, Section 4.4, Special 
warnings and precautions for use, 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects, and 
Section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic 
properties. 
Dose recommendations and 
modification for haematologic toxicity 
are discussed in the proposed SPC 
Section 4.2, Posology and method of 
Page 62/67
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
activities 
Gastrointestinal symptoms 
Gastrointestinal 
perforation/Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage 
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia 
Lacrimal disorder 
Renal toxicity 
Hearing impairment 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
administration; Section 4.4, Special 
warnings and precautions for use, 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects. 
The treatment of diarrhoea and 
dehydration are discussed in Section 
4.4, Special warnings and precautions 
for use; and incidence for all 
gastrointestinal symptoms is described 
in Section 4.8 Undesirable effects and 
Section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic 
properties.  
The incidence of these events are 
presented in Section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects. 
Incidence for this event is described in 
SPC Section 4.8 Undesirable effects and 
Section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic 
properties.  
Lacrimal disorders are discussed in SPC 
Sections 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use, 4.8 Undesirable 
effects and Section 5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties. The SPC 
recommends an early ophthalmologic 
consultation in the event of any 
persistent or vision-reducing ocular 
symptoms such as lacrimation or 
corneal symptoms.   
Dose recommendations and 
modification for renal toxicity are 
discussed in SPC Section 4.2, Posology 
and method of administration; Section 
4.3 Contraindications, Section 4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for 
use, including recommendations that 
renal parameters (serum creatinine and 
creatinine clearance) be closely 
monitored; and the incidence of these 
events is presented in Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects and Section 5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties. In the 
SPC, cisplatin treatment in combination 
with Teysuno is limited to 6 cycles. 
The incidence of hearing impairment 
and deafness is presented in the SPC 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effect and 
Section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic 
properties.  In the SPC, cisplatin 
treatment in combination with Teysuno 
is limited to 6 cycles. 
The incidence of peripheral neuropathy 
is presented in Section 4.8 Undesirable 
effect and Section 5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties. In the 
Page 63/67
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
activities 
Cardiovascular events 
Hepatic toxicity 
Disseminated intravascular 
coagulation 
Interstitial lung disease 
Leukoencephalopathy 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis 
Acute pancreatitis 
Important potential risks 
Potential for Off-Label Use 
Malignancies (secondary to 
therapy) 
Dosing errors related to the 
BSA-based dosing schedule 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Monitor ongoing clinical 
studies 
SPC, cisplatin treatment in combination 
with Teysuno is limited to 6 cycles. 
Incidence of cardiovascular events is 
presented in Section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects. 
Dose recommendations and 
modification for patients with hepatic 
impairment are discussed in the 
proposed SPC Section 4.2, Posology 
and method of administration; Section 
4.8 Undesirable effects, Section 5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties, and 
Section 5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties.  
Incidence is presented in Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects. 
Incidence is presented in Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects. 
Incidence is presented in Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects. 
Incidence is presented in Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects. 
Incidence is presented in Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects. 
To limit the potential for off label use 
the Company will implement the 
following prevention strategy:  
Clearly describe indications, dosing 
regimen including dose, route, and 
treatment schedule in the SPC and PIL.  
These events will be monitored in the 
postmarketing environment.  
The indication and regimen are clearly 
described in the SPC and PIL.  It 
includes the standard and reduced dose 
calculation by BSA (SPC Table 2); it 
also clearly defines that a 10% weight 
change will trigger BSA recalculation 
and dose justification (SPC section 
4.2). 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 64/67
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
activities 
Important missing information 
Patients with severe renal 
impairment (CrCl <30 mL/min):  
PK data.  
Routine 
pharmacovigilance. 
Monitor ongoing clinical 
study. 
Patients with cardiac disorders. 
Clinical safety and efficacy of 
Teysuno-containing triplet 
regimen 
Effect of tumour MSI on the 
efficacy and safety of Teysuno 
Conduct clinical studies 
and analyses 
All missing information will be 
monitored and updated in the PSUR. 
Information provided In the SPC: 
Section 4.2, Dose recommendation and 
modification 
Section 4.3, Contraindications 
Section 4.4, Special Warnings 
Section 4.8, Undesirable effects 
Section 5.1, Pharmacodynamic 
properties 
All missing information will be 
monitored and updated in the PSUR. 
Information provided In the SPC  
Section 4.8, Undesirable effects 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.8.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
The  benefit  of  an  oral  (5-FU)  product  as  Teysuno,  is  its  daily  oral  dosing  without  requiring  a  central 
venous catheter and hospital admission (as necessary for 5-FU continuous i.v. infusion).  
In  the  pivotal  study  S-1301/FLAGS,  Teysuno+cisplatin  (75  mg/m2)  was  demonstrated  to  be  non-
inferior  to  5-FU+cisplatin  (100  mg/m2,  q4w)  with  respect  to  overall  survival,  response  rate  and 
progression  free  survival.  In  the  all  randomised  set  the  median  OS  (primary  endpoint)  in  the 
Teysuno+cisplatin  arm  (n=527)  was  8.5  months  (95%  CI  7.9  -  9.3),  and  7.9  months  (95%  CI  7.2  - 
8.5)  in  the  5-FU+cisplatin  control  arm (n=526),  with  a  HR  of  0.94  (95%  CI 0.82  –  1.07).  Secondary 
endpoints progression free survival and overall response rate were in line with the primary endpoint.  
Teysuno+cisplatin versus 5-FU+cisplatin showed some advantage in exploratory analyses in favour of 
the Teysuno regimen in terms of clinical parameters. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 65/67
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation  and  death  due  to  toxicity  was  higher  in  the  5-FU  group  and  mostly  related  to 
myelosuppression, which might be related to higher dose of cisplatin in this treatment group. This may 
have  led  to  an  underestimation  of  the  efficacy  of  control  arm.  However,  additional  analysis  did  not 
show any differences between Teysuno+cisplatin and 5-FU+cisplatin.  
It is noted that other 5-FU prodrugs, in particular capecitabine, are now widely used fluoropyrimidine 
analogue  as  part  of  triplet  regimen  for  advanced  gastric  cancer  on  the  basis  of  efficacy  and 
convenience  in  clinical  practice.  On  the  basis  of  the  submitted  data  in  the  MAA  Teysuno  cannot  be 
considered  as  an  alternative  for  capecitabine  since  direct  comparison  is  lacking.  Therefore,  the  CHMP 
recommended  further  investigation  to  be  carried  out.  The  applicant  committed  to  conduct  further 
clinical  trials  to  increase  the  knowledge  about  the  clinical  safety  and  efficacy  of  Teysuno  in  clinical 
practice in Advanced Gastric Cancer, i.e. to establish an acceptable Teysuno-containing triplet regimen. 
To limit the potential for off label use the Company will implement the following prevention strategy: 
Clearly  describe  indications,  dosing  regimen  including  dose,  route,  and  treatment  schedule  in  the 
SmPC and PL. 
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
The main analysis of the safety of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin for the treatment of advanced 
gastric  cancer  in  Western  patients  derived  from  the  Phase  2  study  S1101  and  the  Phase  3  study 
S1301/FLAGS.    The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  in  these  two  studies  in  patients  receiving 
Teysuno+cisplatin  were  all  of  gastro-intestinal  nature.  Commonly  reported  AEs  were:  anaemia, 
neutropenia,  vomiting,  diarrhoea,  abdominal  pain,  weight  decrease,  anorexia  and  fatigue,  all  AEs 
already  known  to  be  associated  with  fluoropyrimidines  and/or  cisplatin.  The  most  commonly 
encountered  haematological  abnormalities  were  neutropenia  and  leucopenia.  Hyperbilirubinaemia, 
palmar-plantar  erythrodysaesthesia  and  increased  lacrimation  were  more  frequently  associated  with 
the Teysuno+cisplatin arm.  
Subgroup  analyses  of  AEs  in  the  S1301/FLAGS  study  (including  ECOG  performance  status,  gender, 
race,  and  renal  function)  did  not  indicate  any  overall  trends  within  the  Teysuno  +  cisplatin  group. 
Leucopenia,  neutropenia,  thrombocytopenia,  diarrhoea,  asthenia,  hypokalaemia  and  hyponatraemia, 
asthenia, disease progression, dehydration and hypokalaemia were more seen in older patients in the 
Teysuno  group  (≥  5%  difference  in  incidence).  Similar  differences  were  observed  in  the  5-FU  older 
population. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects. 
The  incidence  of  all  grades  of  diarrhoea  seemed  to  favour  Teysuno+cisplatin  compared  to 
5-FU+cisplatin.  However,  the  grade  ≥  3  diarrhoea  was  similar  in  Teysuno  versus  5-FU  in  the  FLAGS 
study,  therefore  a  beneficial  effect  in  terms  of  this  toxicity  cannot  be  claimed  and  this  has  been 
reflected in the SmPC. 
Teysuno  has  not  been  studied  in  gastric  cancer  patients  with  microsatellite  instability  (MSI).  The 
association  between  5-FU  sensitivity  and  MSI  in  patients  with  gastric  cancer  is  unclear  and  the 
association  between  Teysuno  and  MSI  in  gastric  cancer  is  unknown.  The  applicant  committed  to 
investigate  the  effect  of  tumour  MSI  on  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  Teysuno  in  the  approximately  70 
tissue  samples  remaining  from  the  S1301/FLAGS  PGx  substudy  provided  the  study  is  technically 
feasible.  
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 66/67
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic  data  are  not  available  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  (CrCl  <30  mL/min). 
All  missing  information  will  be  monitored  and  updated  in  the  PSUR  and  adequate  dose 
recommendations are provided in the SmPC. 
Benefit-Risk Balance 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Teysuno+cisplatin  has  demonstrated  non-inferior  efficacy  concerning  the  primary  endpoint  overall 
survival  compared  to  that  of  parenteral  5-FU+cisplatin in  the  patient  population  and  dosing  regimens 
as  applied  in  the  pivotal  study  (CF100,  100  mg/m2).  The  safety  profile  of  Teysuno+cisplatin  was 
accepted  as  a  safe  alternative  chemotherapy  regimen  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  advanced 
gastric  cancer  when  compared  in  the  dosing  regimens  as  applied  in  the  pivotal  study.  Overall,  the 
benefits and risks of Teysuno+cisplatin are similar to those of parenteral 5-FU+cisplatin in the patient 
population  and  dosing  regimens  as  applied  in  the  pivotal  study,  and  the  benefit-risk  balance  is 
considered to be positive.  
2.8.1.  Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Oral  fluoropyrimidines  have  nowadays  largely  replaced  continuous  infusion  5-FU  in  the  treatment  of 
advanced gastric cancer due to improved tolerability and convenience, and even some data suggesting 
possible improved efficacy.  
The cisplatin-5FU schedule selected as control treatment for the present study may not be considered 
anymore as an optimal treatment. Still, the efficacy and safety of the control arm as well as the non-
inferiority  margin  of  1.10  in  the  hazard  ratio  for  overall  survival  have  been  adequately  justified.  The 
non-inferior efficacy and safety of Teysuno+cisplatin have only been established compared to cisplatin-
5FU  schedule  selected  as  control  treatment  for  the  present  study  and  only  in  the  advanced  gastric 
cancer  indication  that  was  included  in the  pivotal  study.  The  efficacy  and  safety  of  Teysuno  have  not 
been  established  in  other  dosing  regimens  or  combinations  including  triplet  regimen  in  advanced 
gastric  cancer  or  in  other  indications.  Therefore,  Teysuno  can  only  be  approved  for  use  in  double-
regimen  with  cisplatin  but  cannot  be  considered  as  a  general  alternative  to  parenteral  5-FU  or  5-FU 
prodrugs in other indications, monotherapy or combination regimens. 
Risk management plan 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  routine  pharmacovigilance  was  adequate  to  monitor  the  safety  of  the  product  and  no 
additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product information.  
2.9.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Teysuno  in  the  treatment  of  advanced  gastric  cancer  when  given  in 
combination  with  cisplatin  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
Teysuno 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/CHMP/831565/2010  
Page 67/67
 
 
 
 
