ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teysuno 15 mg/4.35 mg/11.8 mg hard capsules 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each hard capsule contains 15 mg tegafur, 4.35 mg gimeracil and 11.8 mg oteracil (as 
monopotassium). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each hard capsule contains 70.2 mg lactose monohydrate.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule (capsule). 
The capsule has an opaque white body and opaque brown cap imprinted “TC448” in grey. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Teysuno is indicated in adults: 
- 
- 
for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer when given in combination with cisplatin (see section 
5.1). 
as monotherapy or in combination with oxaliplatin or irinotecan, with or without bevacizumab, for 
the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer for whom it is not possible to continue 
treatment with another fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiovascular toxicity that 
developed in the adjuvant or metastatic setting. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Teysuno should only be prescribed by a qualified physician experienced in treating cancer patients 
with anti-neoplastic medicinal products. 
Patients should be provided with outpatient prescriptions for anti-emetic and anti-diarrhoeal medicinal 
products.  
The patient's BSA must be recalculated and the Teysuno dose adjusted accordingly if a patient’s 
weight increases or decreases by ≥10% from the one used for the previous calculation of BSA and the 
change is clearly not related to fluid retention. 
Posology 
Advanced gastric cancer when given in combination with cisplatin  
The recommended standard dose of Teysuno when administered in combination with cisplatin is 
25 mg/m2 (expressed as tegafur content) twice daily, morning and evening, for 21 consecutive days 
followed by 7 days rest (1 treatment cycle). This treatment cycle is repeated every 4 weeks. 
The standard and reduced Teysuno and cisplatin doses and calculations according to body surface area 
(BSA) for doses of Teysuno given in combination with cisplatin are provided in Table 1 and Table 2, 
respectively.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of cisplatin with this regimen is 75 mg/m2 by intravenous infusion 
administered once every 4 weeks. Cisplatin should be discontinued after 6 cycles without withdrawal 
of Teysuno. If cisplatin is discontinued before 6 cycles, Teysuno treatment alone can be resumed 
when the criteria for restarting it are met. 
Patients treated with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin should be closely monitored and 
laboratory tests, including haematology, liver function, renal function, and serum electrolytes, should 
be performed frequently. Treatment should be discontinued if progressive disease or intolerable 
toxicity is observed. 
Refer to the cisplatin summary of product characteristics (SmPC) for pretreatment hyperhydration. 
Teysuno doses in advanced gastric cancer  
Table 1: Standard dose and dose reductions allowed for Teysuno and/or for cisplatin in advanced gastric 
cancer 
Medicinal 
product 
Standard dose 
(mg/m2) 
25a 
Teysuno 
and/or 
75 
Cisplatin 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
Dose reduction 1 
(mg/m2) 
20a 
60 
→ 
→ 
→ 
→ 
Dose reduction 2 
(mg/m2) 
15a 
45 
Teysuno dose calculations in advanced gastric cancer 
Table 2: Standard and reduced dose calculations in advanced gastric cancer by body surface area (m2) 
Teysuno dose 
Each dose in mg 
(each dosing)a 
Total daily dose 
in mga 
Number of capsules for each dose 
(2 doses/day) 
15 mg capsulea
(brown/white) 
20 mg capsulea
(white) 
0 
1 
2 
3 
0 
1 
2 
3 
0 
1 
2 
0 
1 
2 
0 
1 
3 
2 
1 
0 
2 
1 
0 
0 
2 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
Standard dosea: 25 mg/m2 
BSA  2.30 m2 
BSA = 2.10 - 2.29 m2 
BSA = 1.90 - 2.09 m2 
BSA = 1.70 - 1.89 m2 
BSA = 1.50 - 1.69 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.49 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
First dose reductiona: to 20 mg/m2 
BSA ≥ 2.13 m2 
BSA = 1.88 - 2.12 m2 
BSA = 1.63 - 1.87 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.62 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
Second dose reductiona: to 15 mg/m2 
BSA ≥ 2.17 m2 
BSA = 1.67 - 2.16 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.66 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
Calculate BSA to 2 decimal places. 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
60 
55 
50 
45 
40 
35 
30 
45 
40 
35 
30 
20 
35 
30 
20 
15 
120 
110 
100 
90 
80 
70 
60 
90 
80 
70 
60 
40 
70 
60 
40 
30 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metastatic colorectal cancer, as monotherapy or in combination with oxaliplatin or irinotecan, with 
or without bevacizumab, for whom it is not possible to continue treatment with another 
fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome (HFS) or cardiotoxicity 
The proposed dose in mCRC for monotherapy is 30 mg/m2 b.i.d. days 1-14 with a one-week pause (± 
bevacizumab 7.5 mg/kg on day 1). For combination therapy (with oxaliplatin or irinotecan), 25 
mg/m2 b.i.d. d1-14 followed by one-week pause is recommended. 
Teysuno doses in Metastatic colorectal cancer  
Table 3a: Standard dose and dose reductions allowed for Teysuno monotherapy in metastatic colorectal 
cancer 
Medicinal 
product 
Standard dose 
(mg/m2) 
30a 
Teysuno 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
Dose reduction 1 
(mg/m2) 
25a 
→ 
→ 
Dose reduction 2 
(mg/m2) 
20a 
Table 3b: Standard dose and dose reductions allowed for Teysuno combination therapy in metastatic 
colorectal cancer 
Medicinal 
product 
Teysuno 
And/or 
Standard dose 
(mg/m2) 
25a 
→ 
Dose reduction 1 
(mg/m2) 
20a,e 
Oxaliplatinb,c,d 
Irinotecanc,d 
100e 
g 
→ 
→ 
130 
150-225f 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
b Chung KY, Saito K, Zergebel C, Hollywood E, Segal M, Saltz LB. Phase I study of two schedules of oral S-1 
in combination with fixed doses of oxaliplatin and bevacizumab in patients with advanced solid tumors. 
Oncology. 2011;81(2):65-72. 
c Winther SB, Zubcevic K, Qvortrup C, et al. Experience with S-1 in older Caucasian patients with metastatic 
colorectal cancer (mCRC): Findings from an observational chart review. Acta Oncol. 2016;55(7):881-885. 
d Österlund P, Kinos S, Pfeiffer P, et al. Continuation of fluoropyrimidine treatment with S-1 after 
cardiotoxicity on capecitabine- or 5-fluorouracil-based therapy in patients with solid tumours: a multi-centre 
retrospective observational cohort study. Manuscript Submitted 2021. 
e Winther SB, Liposits G, Skuladottir H, et al. Reduced-dose combination chemotherapy (S-1 plus oxaliplatin) 
versus full-dose monotherapy (S-1) in older vulnerable patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (NORDIC9): a 
randomised, open-label phase 2 trial. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2019;4(5):376-388. 
f While the best dose of irinotecan is not known and is used in combination with Teysuno in ranges between 
150-225 mg/m2, the most relevant experience comes from irinotecan dosing of 180-200 mg/m2  
g No recommendation can be made and dose reduction will be dependent on the starting dose 
Teysuno dose calculations Metastatic colorectal cancer  
Table 4: Standard and reduced dose calculations by body surface area (m2) in metastatic colorectal 
cancer 
Teysuno dose 
Each dose in mg 
(each dosing)a 
Total daily dose 
in mga 
Number of capsules for each dose 
(2 doses/day) 
Standard dosea: 30 mg/m2 
BSA  2.30 m2 
BSA = 2.10 - 2.29 m2 
BSA = 1.90 - 2.09 m2 
BSA = 1.70 - 1.89 m2 
BSA = 1.50 - 1.69 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.49 m2 
15 mg capsulea
(brown/white) 
2 
3 
0 
1 
2 
0 
20 mg capsulea
(white) 
2 
1 
3 
2 
1 
2 
70 
65 
60 
55 
50 
40 
140 
130 
120 
110 
100 
80 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
1 
70 
35 
0 
1 
2 
3 
0 
1 
2 
60 
55 
50 
45 
40 
35 
30 
120 
110 
100 
90 
80 
70 
60 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
First dose reductiona: to 25 mg/m2# 
BSA  2.30 m2 
BSA = 2.10 - 2.29 m2 
BSA = 1.90 - 2.09 m2 
BSA = 1.70 - 1.89 m2 
BSA = 1.50 - 1.69 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.49 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
Second dose reductiona: to 20 mg/m2 
BSA ≥ 2.13 m2 
BSA = 1.88 - 2.12 m2 
BSA = 1.63 - 1.87 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.62 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
Calculate BSA to 2 decimal places. 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
Kwakman JJM et al. Randomized Phase III trial of S-1 versus capecitabine in the first-line treatment of 
metastatic colon cancer: SALTO study by the Dutch Colorectal Cancer group, Annals of Oncology 2017, 28; 
(6): 1288–93 
# 25 mg/m2 is the standard dose in case of combination therapy with oxaliplatin or irinotecan 
45 
40 
35 
30 
20 
90 
80 
70 
60 
40 
3 
2 
1 
0 
2 
1 
0 
0 
2 
1 
0 
1 
3 
0 
1 
2 
0 
Adjustments during treatment 
General 
Toxicity due to Teysuno administration should be managed with symptomatic treatment and/or 
treatment interruption or dose reduction. Patients taking Teysuno should be informed of the risks and 
instructed to contact their physician immediately if moderate or severe toxicity occurs. 
Doses omitted for toxicity are not replaced; and, if a patient vomits after taking a dose, this dose 
should not be replaced. 
Once the Teysuno dose has been reduced, it should not be increased again. 
Teysuno dose modification criteria 
Dose modifications for toxicity should be made according to Tables 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7.  A maximum of 
two consecutive dose reductions for each medicinal product, as described in Table 1 for advanced 
gastric cancer and table 3 for metastatic colorectal cancer, can be applied in case of toxicity. Each 
dose reduction results in approximately 20-25% reduction of dose.  
In case of advanced gastric cancer, see Table 2 for the details of the number of Teysuno capsules to be 
administered for each dose level.  
In case of metastatic colorectal cancer, see Table 4 for the details of the number of Teysuno capsules 
to be administered for each dose level. For minimum criteria for resumption of Teysuno treatment, see 
Table 8. 
Teysuno dose modifications for toxicity when used in combination with cisplatin can be made in two 
ways. 
During a 4-week cycle of treatment 
Teysuno should only be given on Days 1 to 21 of each cycle, i.e., treatment should not be given on 
Days 22 to 28 of a cycle. Treatment days missed in a cycle where medicinal product was held due to 
toxicity should not be replaced. 
During a treatment cycle, dose adjustment should be performed for each individual medicinal product 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that is considered to be causally related to the toxicity, if such a distinction can be made. If both 
medicinal products are considered to be causing the toxicity or it is not possible to distinguish them, 
then dose reduction should be performed for both according to the recommended dose reduction 
schedule. 
At the initiation of subsequent cycles of treatment 
If a treatment delay is indicated for either Teysuno or cisplatin, then administration of both medicinal 
products should be delayed until the requirements for restarting both are met unless one of the 
medicinal products has been permanently discontinued. 
Dose modifications for Teysuno for adverse reactions in general except for haematologic and renal 
toxicities 
Table 5: Teysuno dose reduction schedule for treatment-related toxicities in general, except for 
haematologic and renal toxicities 
Toxicity gradesa 
Teysuno dose changes within a 21-day 
treatment cycle 
Teysuno dose adjustment 
for next dose / next cycle 
Grade 1 
Any occurrence 
Grade 2b,c 
Any occurrence 
Grade 3 or higherc 
First occurrence 
Maintain treatment at same dose level 
Suspend treatment until Grade 0 or 1 
None 
None 
Second occurrence 
Suspend treatment until Grade 0 or 1 
Suspend treatment until Grade 0 or 1 
Reduce by 1 dose level from 
previous level 
Reduce by 1 dose level from 
previous level 
Discontinue treatment 
Third occurrence 
a According to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) of the Cancer Therapy 
Evaluation Program, US National Cancer Institute, version 3.0. 
b For Grade 2 nausea and/or vomiting, the anti-emetic therapy should be optimized prior to a suspension of 
Teysuno. 
c At the discretion of the treating physician, patients may continue with treatment without reduction or 
interruption for adverse reactions (irrespective of grade) considered unlikely to become serious or life- 
threatening (e.g., alopecia, changes in sexual function, and dry skin). 
Discontinue treatment 
Dose modifications for renal toxicities 
Creatinine clearance (CrCl) must be determined for every cycle before the start of treatment on Day 1. 
Table 6: Teysuno and cisplatin dose modification according to creatinine clearance values at the start 
of a cycle of treatment 
Creatinine 
clearance 
≥50 ml/min 
30 to 49 ml/min 
Teysuno dose modification at the 
start of the cycle of treatment 
No dose modification 
Start treatment at one reduced dose 
level 
<30 ml/mina 
Suspend treatment until resumption 
criterion (≥30 ml/min) is met and 
then start treatment at one reduced 
dose level 
Cisplatin dose modification at the 
start of the cycle of treatment 
No dose modification 
Start cisplatin treatment at a 50% 
dose reduction from the previous 
cycle 
Suspend cisplatin treatment until 
resumption criterion (≥30 ml/min) is 
met and then start treatment at a 50% 
dose reduction from the previous 
cycle 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a Treatment for patients with CrCl <30 ml/min is not recommended unless the benefits of Teysuno 
treatment clearly outweigh the risks. Refer to “Dose modifications for special populations / Renal 
impairment for guidance.” 
Dose modifications for haematologic toxicities 
Table 7: Haematologic toxicities for which Teysuno treatment should be suspended 
Units 
Neutrophils 
Platelets 
Haemoglobin 
IU 
<0.5 x 109/l 
<25 x 109/l 
4.0 mmol/l 
Teysuno dose modification 
Suspend treatment until 
resumption criterion is met 
(see Table 8) and then resume 
dosing at one reduced dose level. 
Resumption criteria for Teysuno treatment 
Table 8: Minimum criteria to resume Teysuno treatment following its suspension due to a toxicity 
Non-haematologic 
Haematologic 
Baseline or Grade 1 
Calculated creatinine clearance ≥30 ml/mina  Neutrophils ≥1.5 x 109/l 
Platelet count ≥100 x 109/l 
Haemoglobin ≥6.2 mmol/l 
CrCl must be calculated at the beginning of every cycle before the start of treatment with Teysuno 
on Day 1. 
a Treatment for patients with CrCl <30 ml/min is not recommended unless the benefits of Teysuno treatment 
clearly outweigh the risks. Refer to “Dose modifications for special populations / Renal impairment for 
guidance.” 
Dose modifications for special populations 
Renal impairment 
•  Mild renal impairment (CrCl 51 to 80 ml/min) 
No adjustment of the standard dose is recommended in patients with mild renal impairment (see 
section 5.2). 
•  Moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 50 ml/min) 
The recommended standard dose in patients with moderate renal impairment is 20 mg/m2 twice 
daily (expressed as tegafur content) (see sections 4.8 and 5.2). 
•  Severe renal impairment (CrCl below 30 ml/min) 
Although roughly similar daily exposure to 5-FU would be expected in patients with severe 
renal impairment at a dose of 20 mg/m2 once daily compared to 30 mg/m2 twice daily in patients 
with normal renal function (see section 5.2), administration of Teysuno is not recommended due 
to possibly higher incidence of adverse events of the blood and lymphatic system disorders 
unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
No data is available regarding Teysuno administration in patients with end stage renal disease 
requiring dialysis (see section 4.3). 
Elderly 
In both indications, no adjustment of the standard dose is recommended in patients >70 years old (see 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
section 4.8). 
For elderly, more vulnerable patients, in case of metastatic colorectal cancer and where it is not possible to 
continue treatment with another fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiotoxicity, the 
recommended dose is 20 mg/m2 (expressed as tegafur content) twice daily, morning and evening, for 14 
consecutive days followed by 7 days rest, in combination with a reduced oxaliplatin dose (100 mg/m2 on 
day 1 of a 3-week cycle). 
Hepatic impairment 
No adjustment of the standard dose in both indications is recommended for patients with 
hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Ethnicity 
No adjustment of the standard dose in both indications is recommended for patients of Asian ethnicity (see 
section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Teysuno in children and adolescents under 18 years old have not been 
established. No data are available. Therefore, Teysuno should not be administered to children or 
adolescents under 18 years of age. 
Method of administration 
The capsules should be taken by mouth with water at least 1 hour before or 1 hour after a meal (see 
section 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to any of the active substances (tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil) or to any of the 
excipients listed in 6.1. 
History of severe and unexpected reactions to fluoropyrimidine therapy. 
Known complete dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency (see section 4.4). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
Severe bone marrow suppression (severe leukopaenia, neutropaenia, or thrombocytopaenia; see 
section 4.2, Table 7). 
End stage renal disease patients requiring dialysis. 
Co-administration of other fluoropyrimidines with Teysuno. 
Recent or concomitant treatment with brivudine (see section 4.4 and 4.5 for drug-drug 
interaction). 
Contraindications for cisplatin; oxaliplatin, irinotecan and bevacizumab refer to the corresponding 
SmPCs. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Dose limiting toxicities include diarrhoea and dehydration. Most adverse reactions are reversible and 
can be managed by symptomatic therapy, dose interruptions and dose reductions. 
Bone marrow suppression 
Treatment-related bone marrow suppression, including neutropaenia, leukopaenia, thrombocytopaenia, 
anaemia, and pancytopaenia, has been reported among patients treated with Teysuno in combination 
with cisplatin. Patients with low white blood cell counts should be monitored carefully for infection 
and risk of other complications of neutropaenia and treated as medically indicated (e.g., with 
antibiotics, granulocyte-colony stimulating factor [G-CSF]). Patients with low platelet counts are at 
increased risk for bleeding and should be monitored carefully. The dose should be modified as 
recommended in section 4.2. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Administration of Teysuno in hepatitis B virus carriers, HBc antigen negative and HBc antibody 
positive patients, or HBs antigen negative and HBs antibody positive patients may result in 
reactivation of hepatitis B. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Teysuno. Experts in liver 
disease and in the treatment of hepatitis B should be consulted before treatment is initiated in patients 
with positive hepatitis B serology (including those with active disease) and for patients who test 
positive for HBV infection during treatment. Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Teysuno 
should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy, and 
follow-up monitoring for hepatic function tests or viral markers are recommended. 
Diarrhoea 
Patients with diarrhoea should be carefully monitored and given fluid and electrolyte replacement if 
they become dehydrated. Prophylactic treatment for diarrhoea should be administered as indicated. 
Standard anti-diarrhoeal therapy (e.g., loperamide) and intravenous fluids/electrolytes should be 
initiated early when diarrhoea develops. Dose suspension/adjustment should be implemented with the 
occurrence of Grade 2 or higher diarrhoea if symptoms persist despite adequate treatment. 
Dehydration 
Dehydration and any associated electrolyte disturbances should be prevented or corrected at onset. 
Patients with anorexia, asthenia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, stomatitis, and gastrointestinal 
obstruction should be monitored closely for signs of dehydration. Dehydration should be managed 
aggressively with rehydration and other appropriate measures. If Grade 2 (or higher) dehydration 
occurs, treatment should be immediately suspended and the dehydration corrected. Treatment should 
not be resumed until dehydration and its underlying causes are corrected or adequately controlled. 
Dose modifications should be applied for the precipitating adverse reaction as necessary (see 
section 4.2). 
Renal toxicity 
Treatment with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin may be associated with a transient decline of 
glomerular filtration rate caused primarily by pre-renal factors (e.g., dehydration, electrolyte 
imbalance, etc). Adverse reactions of Grade 3 or higher such as increased blood creatinine, decreased 
creatinine clearance, toxic nephropathy, and acute renal failure have all been reported in patients 
receiving Teysuno in combination with cisplatin (see section 4.8). To detect early changes in renal 
function during treatment, renal parameters should be closely monitored (e.g., serum creatinine, CrCl). 
If deterioration of glomerular filtration rate is observed, Teysuno and/or cisplatin dose should be 
adjusted according to Table 6, and appropriate supportive measures taken (see section 4.2). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dehydration and diarrhoea may increase the risk of renal toxicity for cisplatin. Hyperhydration 
(forced diuresis) should be administered according to the cisplatin SmPC to reduce the risk of renal 
toxicity associated with cisplatin therapy. 
Gimeracil increases 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) exposure by inhibiting DPD, the primary enzyme for 
metabolizing 5-FU. Gimeracil is primarily cleared by the kidney (see section 5.2); so, in patients with 
renal insufficiency gimeracil renal clearance is decreased and 5-FU exposure thus increased. 
Treatment-related toxicities can be expected to increase as 5-FU exposure increases (see section 5.2). 
Severe renal impairment 
Treatment with Teysuno is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment due to possibly 
higher incidence of adverse events of the blood and lymphatic system and the possibility of 
unexpectedly higher exposure to 5-FU as a result of fluctuations in renal function in these patients, 
unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks (see sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.2). 
Ocular toxicity 
The most common treatment-related ocular disorders among patients in studies in Europe/United 
States of America (EU/USA) treated with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin were lacrimal 
disorders (8.8%), including increased lacrimation, dry eye, and acquired dacryostenosis (see 
section 4.8). 
Most ocular reactions will resolve or improve with suspension of medicinal product and proper 
treatment (instillation of artificial tears, antibiotic eye drops, implantation of glass or silicone tubes in 
lacrimal punctas or canaliculi, and/or use of spectacles rather than contact lenses). Efforts should be 
made to ensure early detection of ocular reactions, including an early ophthalmologic consultation in 
the event of any persistent or vision-reducing ocular symptoms such as lacrimation or corneal 
symptoms. 
Refer to the cisplatin SmPC for eye disorders observed with cisplatin therapy. 
Coumarin-derivative anticoagulant 
Patients receiving oral coumarin-derivative anticoagulant therapy must have their anticoagulant 
response (International Normalized Ratio for prothrombin time [INR] or prothrombin time [PT]) 
monitored closely and the anticoagulant dose adjusted accordingly (see section 4.5). The use of 
coumarin-derivative anticoagulant in clinical trials has been associated with elevated INR and 
gastrointestinal bleeding, bleeding tendency, haematuria, and anaemia in patients receiving Teysuno 
therapy. 
Brivudine 
Brivudine must not be administered concomitantly with Teysuno. Fatal cases have been reported 
following capecitabine interaction. There must be at least a 4-week waiting period between end of 
treatment with brivudine and start of Teysuno therapy. Treatment with brivudine can be started 24 
hours after the last dose of Teysuno (see section 4.3 and 4.5). 
In the event of accidental administration of brivudine to patients being treated with Teysuno, effective 
measures should be taken to reduce the toxicity of Teysuno. Immediate admission to hospital is 
recommended. All measures should be initiated to prevent systemic infections and dehydration. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DPD inducers 
If a DPD inducer were to be concomitantly administered with Teysuno, the exposure of 5-FU might 
not reach the efficacious level. However, since no DPD inducers are currently known, the interaction 
between a DPD inducer and Teysuno cannot be evaluated. 
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency: 
DPD activity is rate limiting in the catabolism of 5-fluorouracil (see Section 5.2). Patients with DPD 
deficiency are therefore at increased risk of fluoropyrimidines-related toxicity including for example 
stomatitis, diarrhoea, mucosal inflammation, neutropenia and neurotoxicity. 
DPD-deficiency related toxicity usually occurs during the first cycle of treatment or after dose increase. 
Complete DPD deficiency 
Complete DPD deficiency is rare (0.01-0.5% of Caucasians). Patients with complete DPD deficiency 
are at high risk of life-threatening or fatal toxicity and must not be treated with Teysuno (see section 
4.3). 
Partial DPD deficiency 
Partial DPD deficiency is estimated to affect 3-9% of the Caucasian population. Patients with partial 
DPD  deficiency  are  at  increased  risk  of  severe  and  potentially  life-threatening  toxicity.  A  reduced 
starting  dose  should  be  considered  to  limit  this  toxicity.  DPD  deficiency  should  be  considered  as  a 
parameter to be taken into account in conjunction with other routine measures for dose reduction. Initial 
dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment. In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses 
may be increased with careful monitoring. 
Testing for DPD deficiency 
Phenotype and/or genotype testing prior to the initiation of treatment with Teysuno is recommended 
despite uncertainties regarding optimal pre-treatment testing methodologies. Consideration should be 
given to applicable clinical guidelines. 
When this was not done before, testing is recommended for patients for whom a switch to Teysuno 
from another fluoropyrimidine is considered due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiovascular toxicity in 
order to determine whether a DPD phenotype and/or genotype could have played a role in the 
development of toxicity on another fluoropyrimidine. 
Genotypic characterisation of DPD deficiency 
Pre-treatment testing for rare mutations of the DPYD gene can identify patients with DPD deficiency. 
The  four  DPYD  variants  c.1905+1G>A  [also  known  as  DPYD*2A],  c.1679T>G  [DPYD*13], 
c.2846A>T  and  c.1236G>A/HapB3  can  cause  complete  absence  or  reduction  of  DPD  enzymatic 
activity. Other rare variants may also be associated with an increased risk of severe or life-threatening 
toxicity. 
Certain homozygous and compound heterozygous mutations in the DPYD gene locus (e.g. combinations 
of the four variants with at least one allele of c.1905+1G>A or c.1679T>G) are known to cause complete 
or near complete absence of DPD enzymatic activity. 
Patients with certain heterozygous DPYD variants (including c.1905+1G>A, c.1679T>G, c.2846A>T 
and  c.1236G>A/HapB3  variants)  have  increased  risk  of  severe  toxicity  when  treated  with 
fluoropyrimidines. 
The frequency of the heterozygous c.1905+1G>A genotype in the DPYD gene in Caucasian patients is 
around  1%,  1.1%  for  c.2846A>T,  2.6-6.3%  for  c.1236G>A/HapB3  variants  and  0.07  to  0.1%  for 
c.1679T>G. 
11 
 
 
 
Data on the frequency of the four DPYD variants in other populations than Caucasian is limited. At the 
present, the four DPYD variants (c.1905+1G>A, c.1679T>G, c.2846A>T and c.1236G>A/HapB3) are 
considered virtually absent in populations of African (-American) or Asian origin. 
Phenotypic characterisation of DPD deficiency 
For phenotypic characterisation of DPD deficiency the measurement of pre-therapeutic blood levels of 
the endogenous DPD substrate uracil (U) in plasma is recommended. 
Elevated pre-treatment uracil concentrations are associated with an increased risk of toxicity. Despite 
uncertainties on uracil thresholds defining complete and partial DPD deficiency, a blood uracil level ≥ 
16 ng/ml and < 150 ng/ml should be considered indicative of partial DPD deficiency and associated with 
an increased risk for fluoropyrimidine toxicity. A blood uracil level ≥ 150 ng/ml should be considered 
indicative  of  complete  DPD  deficiency  and  associated  with  a  risk  for  life-threatening  or  fatal 
fluoropyrimidine toxicity. 
Microsatellite instability (MSI) 
Teysuno has not been studied in gastric cancer patients with MSI. The association between 5-FU 
sensitivity and MSI in patients with gastric cancer is unclear and the association between Teysuno and 
MSI in gastric cancer is unknown. 
Glucose/galactose intolerance/malabsorption 
This medicinal product contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, the Lapp lactase deficiency or glucose/galactose malabasorption should not take this 
medicinal product. 
Other oral fluoropyrimidines 
No clinical trials are available comparing Teysuno versus other oral 5-FU compounds. Therefore, 
Teysuno cannot be used as a substitute for other oral 5-FU products. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed in adult or paediatric patients. 
Brivudine 
A clinically significant interaction between brivudine and fluoropyrimidines (e.g. capecitabine, 5- 
Fluorouracil, tegafur), resulting from the inhibition of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase by brivudine, 
has been described. This interaction, which leads to increased fluoropyrimidine toxicity, is potentially 
fatal. Therefore, brivudine must not be administered concomitantly with Teysuno (see section 4.3 and 
4.4). There must be at least a 4-week waiting period between end of treatment with brivudine and start 
of Teysuno therapy. Treatment with brivudine can be started 24 hours after the last dose of Teysuno. 
Other fluoropyrimidines 
Co-administration of other fluoropyrimidines such as capecitabine, 5-FU, tegafur, or flucytosine can 
lead to additive toxicities, and is contraindicated. A minimum washout period of 7 days is 
recommended between administration of Teysuno and other fluoropyrimidines. The washout period 
described in the SmPC of other fluoropyrimidine medicinal products should be followed if Teysuno is 
to be administered subsequent to other fluoropyrimidine medicinal products. 
CYP2A6 inhibitors 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As CYP2A6 is the major enzyme responsible for the conversion of tegafur to 5-FU, co-administration 
of a known CYP2A6 inhibitor and Teysuno should be avoided as effectiveness of Teysuno could be 
decreased (see section 5.2). 
Folinate/folinic acid 
No data are available on the concomitant use of folinic acid with Teysuno in combination with 
cisplatin. However, metabolites of folinate/folinic acid will form a ternary structure with thymidylate 
synthase and fluorodeoxyuridine monophosphate (FdUMP), potentially increasing the cytotoxicity of 
5-FU. Caution is advised as folinic acid is known to enhance the activity of 5-FU. 
Nitroimidazoles, including metronidazole and misonidazole 
No data are available on the concomitant use of nitromidazoles with Teysuno in combination with 
cisplatin. However, nitromidazoles may reduce clearance of 5-FU and thus increase plasma levels of 
5-FU. Caution is advised as co-administration may increase the toxicity of Teysuno. 
Methotrexate 
No data are available on the concomitant use of methotrexate with Teysuno in combination with 
cisplatin. However, polyglutamated methotrexate inhibits thymidylate synthase and dihydrofolate 
reductase, potentially increasing cytotoxicity of 5-FU. Caution is advised as co-administration may 
increase the toxicity of Teysuno. 
Clozapine 
No data are available on the concomitant use of clozapine with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin. 
However, due to possible additive pharmacodynamic effects (myelotoxicity), caution is advised as co- 
administration may increase the risk and severity of haematologic toxicity of Teysuno. 
Cimetidine 
No data are available on the concomitant use of cimetidine with Teysuno in combination with 
cisplatin. However, co-administration may decrease clearance and, thus increase plasma levels of 
5-FU. Caution is advised as co-administration may increase the toxicity of Teysuno. 
Coumarin-derivative anticoagulant 
The activity of a coumarin-derivative anticoagulant was enhanced by Teysuno. Caution is advised as 
co-administration of Teysuno and coumarin anticoagulation therapy may increase the risk of bleeding 
(see section 4.4). 
Phenytoin 
Fluoropyrimidines may increase phenytoin plasma concentration when administered concomitantly 
with phenytoin causing phenytoin toxicity. Frequent monitoring of phenytoin blood/plasma levels is 
advised when Teysuno and phenytoin are administered concomitantly. If indicated, the dose of 
phenytoin should be adjusted according to the phenytoin SmPC. If phenytoin toxicity develops, 
appropriate measures should be taken. 
Other 
Based on non-clinical data, allopurinol may decrease anti-tumour activity due to suppression of 
phosphorylation of 5-FU. Therefore, concurrent administration with Teysuno should be avoided. 
Food 
Administration of Teysuno with a meal reduced exposure to oteracil and gimeracil, with a more 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pronounced effect for oteracil than for gimeracil (see section 5.2). It should be taken with water at 
least 1 hour before or 1 hour after a meal (see section 4.2). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving 
treatment with this medicinal product. 
Contraceptive measures must be taken by male patients during and up to 3 months after stopping 
treatment with Teysuno. 
Contraceptive measures must be taken by female patients during and up to 6 months after stopping 
treatment with Teysuno. 
Pregnancy 
Teysuno is contraindicated in pregnancy (see section 4.3). There have been some case reports of 
foetal abnormalities. Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity. As with other 
fluoropyrimidines, Teysuno administration caused embryolethality and teratogenicity in animals (see 
section 5.3). If the patient becomes pregnant while receiving Teysuno, treatment should be 
discontinued and the potential risk to the foetus must be explained. Genetic counseling should be 
considered. 
Breast-feeding 
Teysuno is contraindicated during breast-feeding (see section 4.3). It is not known whether Teysuno 
or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in 
animals have shown excretion of Teysuno or its metabolites in milk (for details see section 5.3). 
A risk to newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding must be discontinued while receiving 
treatment with Teysuno. 
Fertility 
No data are available on the effect of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin on human fertility. Non- 
clinical studies demonstrated that Teysuno did not appear to affect male or female fertility in the rat 
(see section 5.3). 
Refer to the cisplatin SmPC for the effects of cisplatin on fertility, pregnancy and lactation. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Teysuno has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines as fatigue, dizziness, blurred 
vision, and nausea are common adverse reactions of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
The overall safety profile of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin is based primarily on clinical study 
data from 593 patients with advanced gastric cancer treated with this regimen. In addition, there is 
post-marketing experience in over 866,000 Asian (mainly Japanese) patients. 
Among 593 patients treated with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin, the most common severe 
adverse reactions (Grade 3 or higher with frequency of at least 10%) were neutropaenia, anaemia, and 
fatigue. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following headings are used to rank the adverse reactions by frequency: very common (≥1/10), 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare 
(<1/10,000), and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). The frequencies of very 
common, common, and uncommon adverse reactions are from 593 patients treated with Teysuno in 
combination with cisplatin in clinical trials. The frequencies of medically relevant rare and very rare 
adverse reactions are estimated from post-marketing surveillance of 866,000 patients in Asia (mostly 
Japanese) treated with Teysuno-based therapy. Each term is presented in its most common category 
only and within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 9: Adverse reactions reported by decreasing seriousness in each frequency grouping 
System Organ 
Classa 
Infections and 
infestations 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(Incl. cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Febrile neutropenia, 
lymphopenia 
Neutropenia, 
leukopenia, 
anaemia, 
thrombo- 
cytopenia 
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Anorexia 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Dehydration, 
hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hypomagnesaemia, 
hypoalbuminaemia, 
hyperkalaemia 
Insomnia 
Rare / Very 
rare 
Hepatitis B 
reactivation 
Disseminated 
intravascular 
coagulation 
Neutropenic sepsis, septic shock, sepsis, 
infection, pneumonia, bacteremia, 
respiratory tract infection, upper 
respiratory tract infection, pyelonephritis 
acute, urinary tract infection, 
pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, 
tooth infection, candidiasis, oral herpes, 
paronychia, furuncle 
Tumour haemorrhage, cancer pain 
Pancytopenia, prothrombin time 
prolonged, international normalised ratio 
increased, hypoprothrombinaemia, 
prothrombin time shortened, 
granulocytosis, leukocytosis, 
eosinophilia, lymphocytosis, monocyte 
count decreased, monocyte count 
increased, thrombocythaemia 
Hypersensitivity 
Adrenal haemorrhage 
Hyperglycaemia, blood alkaline 
phosphatase increased, blood lactate 
dehydrogenase increased, 
hypophosphatameia, hypermagnesaemia, 
gout, hypoproteinaemia, 
hyperglobulinaemia, hyperlipidaemia, 
oral intake reduced 
Confusional state, restlessness, 
personality disorder, hallucination, 
depression, anxiety, libido decreased, 
sexual inhibition 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Classa 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Very 
common 
Peripheral 
neuropathy 
Eye disorders 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Diarrhoea, 
vomiting, 
nausea, 
constipation 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeleta 
l and 
connective 
tissue disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Dizziness, 
headache, 
dysgeusia 
Vision disorder, 
lacrimal disorder, 
conjunctivitis, 
corneal disorder b 
Hearing 
impairment, 
deafness 
Hypotension, deep 
vein thrombosis, 
hypertension 
Dyspnoea, 
epistaxis, hiccups, 
cough 
Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage, 
stomatitis, 
gastrointestinal 
inflammation, 
flatulence, 
abdominal pain, 
dysphagia, 
abdominal 
discomfort, 
dyspepsia, dry 
mouth 
Hyperbilirubin-aem 
ia, alanine 
aminotransferase 
increased, aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased 
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome, rash, 
skin 
hyperpigmentation, 
dry skin, pruritus, 
alopecia, 
Musculoskeletal 
pain 
Cerebrovascular accident, cerebellar 
infarction, cerebrovascular disorder, 
convulsion, ischaemic stroke, syncope, 
hemiparesis, aphasia, ataxia, metabolic 
encephalopathy, loss of consciousness, 
acoustic neuritis, memory impairment, 
balance disorder, somnolence, tremor, 
ageusia, parosmia, burning sensation, 
formication 
Eye allergy, eyelid ptosis, erythema of 
eyelid 
Vertigo, ear congestion, ear discomfort 
Cardiac failure, acute myocardial 
infarction, pericardial effusion, atrial 
fibrillation, angina pectoris, cardiac 
fibrillation, tachycardia, palpitations 
Iliac artery thrombosis, hypovolaemic 
shock, arterial limb thrombosis, 
thrombosis, flushing, pelvic venous 
thrombosis, thrombophlebitis, phlebitis, 
phlebitis superficial, orthostatic 
hypotension, haematoma, hyperaemia, 
hot flush 
Pulmonary embolism, respiratory tract 
haemorrhage, exertional dyspnoea, 
pharyngolaryngeal pain, rhinorrhoea, 
pharyngeal erythema, rhinitis allergic, 
dysphonia, productive cough, nasal 
congestion 
Gastrointestinal perforation, 
oesophagitis, gastrointestinal infection, 
ileus, gastrointestinal obstruction, 
ascites, lip oedema, oesophageal spasm, 
gastric ulcer, gastroesophageal reflux 
disease, reflux gastritis, retroperitoneal 
fibrosis, gastrointestinal disorder, anal 
haemorrhage, haemorrhoids, salivary 
hypersecretion, retching, salivary gland 
disorder, cheilitis, aerophagia, 
eructation, glossodynia, oral pain, teeth 
brittle 
Liver function test abnormal, gamma 
glutamyltransferase increased 
Exfoliative rash, skin exfoliation, 
necrolytic migratory erythema, blood 
blister, dermatitis allergic, skin reaction, 
dermatitis acneiform, erythema, 
increased tendency to bruise, purpura, 
hyperhidrosis, night sweats, nail atrophy, 
pigmentation disorder, skin 
discoloration, hypertrichosis 
Muscle spasms, arthralgia, pain in 
extremity, back pain, neck pain, bone 
pain, joint swelling, limb discomfort, 
muscle tightness, muscular weakness 
Rare / Very 
rare 
Leukoenceph- 
alopathy, 
anosmia 
Interstitial lung 
disease 
Acute 
pancreatitis
, terminal 
ileitis 
Acute hepatic 
failure 
Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, 
photosensitivity 
reaction, nail 
disorder 
Rhabdomyolysis 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare / Very 
rare 
Very 
common 
System Organ 
Classa 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Fatigue. 
asthenia 
Renal failure, blood 
creatinine 
increased, 
glomerular 
filtration rate 
decreased, blood 
urea increased 
Mucosal 
inflammation, 
pyrexia, weight 
decreased, 
peripheral oedema, 
chills 
Toxic nephropathy, oligouria, 
haematuria, renal impairment, 
pollakiuria, blood creatine increased, 
blood creatinine decreased 
Erectile dysfunction, breast tenderness, 
nipple pain 
Multi-organ failure, performance status 
decreased, pain, oedema, chest pain, 
chest discomfort, generalized oedema, 
face oedema, local swelling, localized 
oedema, weight increased, early satiety, 
feeling cold, injection site reaction, 
malaise 
Contusion, medication error 
Injury, 
poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
a Adverse reactions in the Investigations system organ class (SOC) have been reallocated to clinically appropriate SOCs 
related to their target organ. 
Different MedDRA preferred terms that were considered clinically similar have been grouped into a single term. 
b incl corneal epithelium defect, corneal erosion, corneal lesion, corneal opacity, corneal perforation, keratitis, punctate 
keratitis, ulcerative keratitis, limbal stem cell deficiency, visual acuity reduced, visual impairment, vision blurred. 
Other clinical studies with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin 
Although studies of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin that were conducted in Japan utilised doses 
and dosing schedules that differed from this regimen, the safety profile from these studies was similar, 
with the most common toxicities being haematologic, gastrointestinal, fatigue, and anorexia. 
Post-marketing surveillance experience in gastric cancer patients 
The safety profile of Teysuno in a post-marketing safety surveillance study in Japan of 4,177 patients 
treated with Teysuno for advanced gastric cancer was generally similar to that seen with this regimen 
and in the Japanese registration studies (i.e., major toxicities were leukocytopaenia, anorexia, and 
nausea/vomiting). 
Safety of Teysuno in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer for whom it is not possible to 
continue treatment with another fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiovascular 
toxicity 
In a subgroup of 53 mCRC patients, within a cohort study of 200 patients with different solid tumours,  
the majority of these mCRC patients (92%) who developed cardiotoxicity while on capecitabine- or 5-FU-
based chemotherapy could safely switch to S-1 and continue treatment, with recurrent cardiotoxicity 
(grade 1) seen in 8%.  Other adverse events during S-1 treatment in this subgroup included grade 3-4 
haematologic toxicity in 8% and grade 2-4 non-haematologic adverse events in  36% (neuropathy 15%, 
infection 7%, thromboembolic event 6%, diarrhoea 4%, nausea 2%, hand-foot syndrome 2%).  
In a retrospective cohort study of 47 metastatic colorectal cancer patients from the Dutch colorectal cancer 
registry (PLCRC) switching to S-1 due to capecitabine-induced hand-foot syndrome (n=36) or 
cardiotoxicity (n=10) the severity of HFS decreased or completely resolved during treatment with S-1 and 
no case of recurrence of cardiac toxicity was reported in any of the 10 patients that switched to S-1 due to 
cardiac adverse events.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Ocular toxicity 
Terms for treatment-related ocular toxicities have been combined as follows. The only Grade 3 or 
higher adverse reaction was reduced visual acuity. 
•  Vision disorder includes adverse reactions of blurred vision, diplopia, photopsia, reduced visual 
acuity, and blindness; 
•  Lacrimal disorder includes adverse reactions of increased lacrimation, dry eye, and acquired 
dacryostenosis; 
•  Eye disorder includes adverse reactions of eye pruritus, ocular hyperaemia, eye irritation, eye 
disorder, and foreign body sensation in eyes. 
Neuropathy 
Central and peripheral neuropathy has been reported in patients treated with Teysuno in combination 
with cisplatin. The term peripheral neuropathy includes the following reported adverse reactions: 
peripheral sensory neuropathy, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, peripheral neuropathy, polyneuropathy, 
neurotoxicity, and dysaesthesia. 
Special populations 
Elderly (see section 4.2) 
Comparison of safety between 71 patients ≥70 years old (elderly) and 450 patients <70 years old 
treated with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin in the FLAGS study demonstrated that the 
incidence of all Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions (62% vs 52%), all serious adverse reactions (30% 
vs 19%), and the rate of premature withdrawal due to adverse reactions from both Teysuno and 
cisplatin (21% vs 12%) appeared to be higher among patients ≥70 years old. A population 
pharmacokinetics analysis demonstrated that 5-FU exposure also tended to increase with age, but the 
extent of the increase was within the range of individual variability. These changes with age were 
related to changes in renal function as measured by creatinine clearance (see section 5.2). 
Gender 
There were no clinically relevant differences in safety between males (N=382) and females (N=139) in 
the FLAGS study. 
Patients with renal impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, and 5.2) 
Comparison of 218 patients with mild renal impairment at baseline (CrCl 51 to 80 ml/min) to 
297 patients with normal renal function at baseline (CrCl >80 ml/min) treated with Teysuno in 
combination with cisplatin in the FLAGS study indicated that there were no clinically significant 
differences in safety between patients with mild renal impairment and patients with normal renal 
function. 
In a study performed in patients with renal impairment, the most common adverse reactions reported 
over all cycles across all cohorts were diarrhoea (57.6%), nausea (42.4%), vomiting (36.4%), fatigue 
(33.3%) and anaemia (24.2%). In this study, 7 patients with moderate renal impairment were treated 
with 20 mg/m2 Teysuno twice daily, while 7 patients with severe renal impairment received Teysuno 
20 mg/m2 once daily. No dose limiting toxicities were observed in Cycle 1 in patients with moderate 
or severe renal impairment. The incidence of blood and lymphatic systems disorders adverse reactions 
observed across all cycles in the moderate and severe renal impairment patients were 28.6% and 
44.4%, respectively. The dose for one patient in the severe cohort was reduced to 13.2 mg/m2 once 
daily at the start of Cycle 12 due to an adverse reaction (Grade 2 diarrhoea) in Cycle 11. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
No studies have been performed with Teysuno alone or in combination with cisplatin in paediatric 
patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The highest single dose of Teysuno taken was 1400 mg; this patient developed leukopenia (Grade 3). 
Manifestations of acute overdose reported include nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, mucositis, 
gastrointestinal irritation, bleeding, bone marrow depression, and respiratory failure. Medical 
management of overdose should include customary therapeutic and supportive medical interventions 
aimed at correcting the presenting clinical manifestations and preventing their possible complications. 
There is no known antidote available in case of overdose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antineoplastic agents, antimetabolites, ATC code: L01BC53. 
Mechanism of action 
Teysuno is an oral fluoropyrimidine anti-cancer medicinal product. It is a fixed dose combination of 
three active substances, tegafur, which after absorption is converted into the anti-cancer substance 
5-FU; gimeracil, a dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) inhibitor to prevent degradation of 5-FU 
by the body; and, oteracil, an orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT) inhibitor that decreases the 
activity of 5-FU in normal gastrointestinal mucosa. The combination of tegafur, gimeracil, and 
oteracil was set at 1:0.4:1 molar ratio as optimum in order to maintain 5-FU exposure and thus sustain 
anti-tumour activity while reducing toxicity associated with 5-FU alone. 
Tegafur is a prodrug of 5-FU with good oral bioavailability. Following oral administration, tegafur is 
gradually converted to 5-FU in vivo, mainly by CYP2A6 enzyme activity in the liver. 5-FU is 
metabolised by the liver enzyme DPD. 5-FU is activated within cells by phosphorylation to its active 
metabolite, 5-fluoro-deoxyuridine-monophosphate (FdUMP). FdUMP and reduced folate are bound 
to thymidylate synthase leading to formation of a ternary complex which inhibits DNA synthesis. In 
addition, 5-fluorouridine-triphosphate (FUTP) is incorporated into RNA causing disruption of RNA 
functions. 
Gimeracil inhibits the metabolism of 5-FU by reversibly and selectively inhibiting DPD, the primary 
metabolic enzyme for 5-FU, so that higher plasma concentrations of 5-FU are achieved with the 
administration of a lower dose of tegafur. 
After oral administration, oteracil was distributed at high concentrations in normal gastrointestinal 
tract tissues while considerably lower concentrations were seen in blood and tumour tissue in animal 
studies. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In a dose escalation study comparing the tolerability of 5-FU in Teysuno and tegafur + gimeracil (no 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
oteracil), the 25 mg/m2 dose level could not be attained in the absence of oteracil due to the occurrence 
of dose limiting toxicities (Grade 3 diarrhoea in 2 patients, and cardio-respiratory arrest in 1 patient) in 
the tegafur+gimeracil arm. The 5-FU pharmacokinetic profile was similar in the presence and absence 
of oteracil. 
Mean 5-FU maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and area under the concentration-time curve 
(AUC) values were approximately 3-fold higher after Teysuno administration than after administration 
of tegafur alone, despite a 16-fold lower Teysuno dose (50 mg of tegafur) compared to tegafur alone 
(800 mg), and are attributed to inhibition of DPD by gimeracil. Maximum plasma uracil concentration 
was observed at 4 hours, with a return to baseline levels within approximately 48 hours after dosing, 
indicating the reversibility of the DPD inhibition by gimeracil. 
A study of the effect of Teysuno on cardiac repolarisation conducted in advanced cancer patients met 
the definition for a negative study according to International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) 
guidelines. No consistent relationship was seen between absolute QTcF interval values or change 
from Baseline values and maximum plasma concentration of Teysuno components. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
A Phase I study established the current regimen by evaluating cohorts of Teysuno and cisplatin of 
30 mg/m2 and 60 mg/m2 (dose-limiting toxicities [DLTs] seen were fatigue, and diarrhoea and 
dehydration); 25 mg/m2 and 60 mg/m2; and 25 mg/m2 and 75 mg/m2. Despite the lack of DLTs in the 
last cohort, the dose of cisplatin was not elevated beyond 75 mg/m2. 
In the Phase III FLAGS study, there was no apparent relationship between 5-FU AUC 
(Teysuno/cisplatin arm) and 5-FU concentration (5-FU/cisplatin arm) during Cycle 1 and efficacy 
outcomes of overall survival (OS) or progression-free survival (PFS). 
In the Phase III FLAGS study, there was no apparent relationship between 5-FU AUC 
(Teysuno/cisplatin arm) and 5-FU concentration (5-FU/cisplatin arm) during Cycle 1 and efficacy 
outcomes of overall survival (OS) or progression-free survival (PFS). 
A Phase I study was conducted to evaluate the PK of the components of Teysuno and their metabolites 
in cancer patients with impaired renal function compared to those with normal renal function. In this 
study, antitumor activity was measured by best overall tumour response. The majority (70.4%) of 
patients had Stable Disease as a best response (based on Investigator’s assessment using RECIST 
criteria) and 29.6% patients had Progressive Disease as their best overall response. No dose limiting 
toxicities were observed in the first cycle of treatment. 
Advanced gastric cancer 
Data from a multicentre, multinational (excluding Asia), randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III 
clinical study (FLAGS) support the use of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin for the treatment of 
patients with advanced gastric cancer. In this study, 521 patients were randomised to treatment with 
Teysuno (25 mg/m2 orally twice daily for 21 days followed by a 7-day rest period) and cisplatin 
(75 mg/m2 intravenous infusion once every 4 weeks); and 508 patients were randomised to treatment 
with 5-FU (1000 mg/m2/24 hours as a continuous intravenous infusion on Days 1 through 5 repeated 
every 4 weeks) and cisplatin (100 mg/m2 as an intravenous infusion on Day 1 repeated every 4 weeks). 
Patient characteristics are provided in Table 10. 
Table 10: Demographics and baseline characteristics of patients in the FLAGS study 
Teysuno + Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 
(N=521) 
5-FU + Cisplatin 100 mg/m2 
(N=508) 
Gender, n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Age, years 
Median (Range) 
≥65, n (%) 
Race, n (%) 
382 (73) 
139 (27) 
59 (18-83) 
160 (31) 
20 
347 (68) 
161 (32) 
60 (20-85) 
164 (32) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
White 
Black or African American 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Other 
ECOG Performance Status, n (%) 
0 
1 
Location of primary lesion, n (%) 
Stomach 
Gastro-oesophageal junction 
Both 
Metastatic disease, n (%) 
≥2 metastatic sites 
447 (86) 
5 (1.0) 
4 (0.8) 
4 (0.8) 
61 (12) 
226 (43) 
295 (57) 
438 (84) 
82 (16) 
1 (0.2) 
497 (95) 
340 (65) 
438 (86) 
7 (1.4) 
4 (0.8) 
6 (1.2) 
53 (10) 
200 (39) 
308 (61) 
417 (82) 
88 (17) 
3 (0.6) 
488 (96) 
327 (64) 
For the primary endpoint of overall survival, Teysuno in combination with cisplatin was non-inferior 
to 5-FU in combination with cisplatin (see Table 11). At the time of primary analysis, the median 
follow-up for overall survival in the full analysis set was 18.3 months.  
Table 11: Overall survival and progression-free survival in FLAGS 
Teysuno + Cisplatin 
5-FU + Cisplatin 
Endpoint 
Population 
Overall Survival 
Intent-to-treat 
Full analysis set 
Progression-free Survival 
Full analysis set 
N 
527 
521 
521 
Median [95% CI]. 
months 
8.5 [7.9, 9.3] 
8.6 [7.9, 9.5] 
N 
526 
508 
Median [95% CI], 
months 
Hazard Ratio 
[95% CI] 
7.9 [7.2, 8.5] 
7.9 [7.2, 8.5] 
0.94 [0.82, 1.07] 
0.92 [0.80, 1.05] 
4.8 
508 
5.5 [4.4, 5.8] 
0.99 [0.86, 1.14] 
CI = confidence interval; Full analysis set = all randomised, treated patients analysed as allocated (primary analysis 
population) 
 [4.0, 5.5] 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Teysuno in all subsets of the paediatric population in gastric adenocarcinoma (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
Metastatic colorectal cancer after switch to Teysuno when it was not possible to continue treatment 
with another fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiovascular toxicity. 
Within a European cohort study of 200 patients who were switched from 5-FU or capecitabine based 
therapy because of cardiotoxicity to continue with Teysuno based therapy, there is a subgroup of 
metastatic colorectal cancer patients (n=53). In this mCRC subgroup, the majority of patients (92%) 
were able to safely switch to Teysuno and continue treatment irrespective of the treatment combinations, 
with recurrent cardiotoxicity seen in 8% (all grade 1). With this switch, 100% of the patients were able 
to complete their planned chemotherapy. In addition, for the CRC patients with metastatic disease, the 
median overall survival was 26 months (95% CI 22-31), with a 5-year survival rates of 12%. 
In a retrospective  cohort study of 47 metastatic colorectal cancer patients from the Dutch colorectal 
cancer registry (PLCRC) switching to S-1 due to capecitabine-induced hand-foot syndrome (n=36) or 
cardiotoxicity (n=10), the median time from initiation of treatment with capecitabine to first documented 
progression of disease after initiation of treatment with S-1 was 414 days (95% confidence interval 332-
568 days)  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The single and multiple dose pharmacokinetics (PK) of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin were 
evaluated in three studies. Eighteen additional PK studies were performed using the relevant regimen 
as monotherapy. All studies were performed in cancer patients. 
Absorption 
After administration of a single dose of 50 mg Teysuno (expressed as tegafur content) in man 
(approximately 30 mg/m2 based on body surface area of 1.56 to 2.10 m2 for a typical patient; N=14), 
the median Tmax for Teysuno components tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil was 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 hours, 
respectively, and the mean ± standard deviation (SD) AUC0-inf and Cmax was 14595 ± 4340 ng.hr/ml 
and 1762 ± 279 ng/ml for tegafur, 1884 ± 640 ng.hr/ml and 452 ± 102 ng/ml for gimeracil, 
556 ± 281 ng.hr/ml and 112 ± 52 ng/ml for oteracil. The median Tmax for 5-FU was 2.0 hours and the 
mean AUC0-inf and Cmax was 842 ± 252 ng.hr/ml and 174 ± 58 ng/ml. Levels of tegafur, gimeracil, 
oteracil and 5-FU were quantifiable through 10 hours postdose. After administration of 30 mg/m2
doses, steady-state conditions are reached for tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil at the latest by Day 8. 
After multiple dose administration (30 mg/m2, expressed as tegafur content, twice daily for 14 days; 
N=10), the median Tmax of tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil was 0.8, 1.0, and 2.0 hours, respectively, 
and the corresponding mean ± SD AUC(0-12h) and Cmax was 19967 ± 6027 ng.hr/ml and 
2970 ± 852 ng/ml for tegafur, 1483 ± 527 ng.hr/ml and 305 ± 116 ng/ml for gimeracil, and 
692 ± 529 ng.hr/ml and 122 ± 82 ng/ml for oteracil. The median Tmax for 5-FU was 2.0 hours and the 
mean AUC(0-12h) and Cmax was 870 ± 405 ng.hr/ml and 165 ± 62 ng/ml, respectively. 
Administration of Teysuno under fed conditions resulted in decreased AUC0-inf for oteracil of 
approximately 71% and gimeracil of approximately 25% relative to fasting administration. 
Concomitant administration of a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) reduced the effect of food on the 
pharmacokinetic profile of oteracil, but not by a sufficient margin to completely negate the food effect. 
There was a 15% decrease in AUC0-inf for 5-FU under fed versus fasting conditions, and tegafur 
exposure was not altered by food (thus demonstrating absence of a food effect). 
Mean AUC0-inf and Cmax for 5-FU were approximately 3-fold greater following administration of 
Teysuno (50 mg expressed as tegafur content) than following administration of tegafur alone 
(800 mg), while AUC0-inf and Cmax values for the 5-FU metabolite α-fluoro-β-alanine (FBAL) were 
approximately 15- to 22-fold lower following administration of Teysuno than following administration 
of tegafur. 
The oteracil component of Teysuno did not affect the pharmacokinetic profiles of 5-FU, tegafur, 
gimeracil, FBAL, or uracil. The gimeracil component did not affect the pharmacokinetic profile of 
tegafur. 
Distribution 
Oteracil, gimeracil, 5-FU, and tegafur were 8.4%, 32.2%, 18.4%, and 52.3% protein bound, 
respectively. The protein binding in human serum was not concentration-dependent over a range of 
0.1 to 1.0 µg/ml for oteracil, gimeracil, and 5-FU and 1.2 to 11.8 µg/ml for tegafur. 
There are no clinical data on the distribution of radiolabeled components of Teysuno. Although no 
intravenous data are available for Teysuno in humans, the volume of distribution could be roughly 
estimated from the apparent volume of distribution and urinary excretion data as 16 l/m2, 17 l/m2, and 
23 l/m2 for tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil, respectively. 
Biotransformation 
The main metabolic pathway for tegafur is through conversion to 5-FU via CYP2A6 in the liver, 
whereas gimeracil was stable in human liver homogenate (S9 fraction) with adenosine 3’-phosphate 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5'-phosphosulfphate lithium salt (PAPS; a co-factor for sulfotransferase) or nicotinamide adenine 
dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH). Based on the results of in vitro studies, a part of oteracil is 
non-enzymatically degraded to 5-azauracil (5-AZU) by gastric fluid, and is then converted to cyanuric 
acid (CA) in the digestive tract. 5-AZU and CA do not inhibit OPRT enzyme activity. Only a small 
amount of oteracil is metabolised in the liver because of its low permeability. 
In vitro evaluation using human liver microsomes indicated that neither tegafur, gimeracil nor oteracil 
showed any relevant inhibitory effects on enzyme activities of the cytochrome P450 isoforms tested 
(i.e., CYP1A1/2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4). 
In vitro evaluation using primary cultures of human hepatocytes indicated that tegafur (0.7-70 µM), 
gimeracil (0.2-25 µM) and oteracil (0.04-4 µM) had little or no inductive effect on CYP1A2, CYP2B6 
or CYP3A4/5 metabolic activities. 
Using plasma uracil concentrations to assess DPD activity in clinical studies, no marked changes in 
plasma uracil concentrations were observed after administration of a single 800 mg dose of tegafur 
while plasma uracil concentrations increased markedly after administration of a single 50 mg dose of 
Teysuno (reflecting DPD inhibition by gimeracil). Following both single dose (50 mg) and multiple 
dose (30 mg/m2 twice daily) administration of Teysuno in man, maximum uracil concentrations 
reflecting DPD inhibition were observed approximately 4 hours postdose. Similar inhibition was seen 
following single and multiple dosing. The plasma concentrations of uracil returned to baseline levels 
approximately 48 hours after dosing indicating reversibility of DPD inhibition by gimeracil. 
Elimination 
In man, the apparent terminal elimination half-life (T1/2) of 5-FU observed after administration of 
Teysuno (containing tegafur, a 5-FU prodrug) was longer (approximately 1.6 - 1.9 hours) than that 
previously reported after intravenous administration of 5-FU (10 to 20 minutes). Following a single 
dose of Teysuno, T1/2 values ranged from 6.7 to 11.3 hours for tegafur, from 3.1 to 4.1 hours for 
gimeracil, and from 1.8 to 9.5 hours for oteracil. 
Following a single dose of Teysuno, approximately 3.8% to 4.2% of administered tegafur, 65% to 
72% of administered gimeracil, and 3.5% to 3.9% of administered oteracil were excreted unchanged in 
the urine. Among the metabolites, 9.5% to 9.7% of the administered tegafur was excreted in the urine 
as 5-FU and approximately 70% to 77% as FBAL, accounting for approximately 83% to 91% of the 
administered Teysuno dose (total tegafur + 5-FU + FBAL). There was no effect of gimeracil on renal 
clearance of tegafur, FBAL, and 5-FU following administration of Teysuno as compared to their 
clearance following administration of tegafur alone. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
In a Japanese Phase I study that utilized 5 dose groups with doses ranging from 25 to 200 mg/body, 
there was a dose-proportional increase in exposure for tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil. However, the 
increase in 5-FU exposure tended to be greater than proportional to the increasing tegafur dose. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
A population PK analysis of Teysuno components and metabolites assessed the influence of various 
factors, including gender, age, food, ethnicity (Caucasian vs Asian), renal function, and hepatic 
function in 315 patients. Renal function, as reflected by creatinine clearance, was the primary factor 
that influenced gimeracil exposure and 5-FU exposure. As renal function decreased, there was an 
increase in 5-FU steady state exposure. This analysis also demonstrated that the trend in changes in 
Teysuno pharmacokinetics observed with increasing age was related to change in renal function as 
measured by creatinine clearance. 
Renal impairment 
In a Phase I Teysuno monotherapy study that investigated the pharmacokinetics of components and 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metabolites in patients with normal and impaired renal function, patients with mild renal impairment 
(CrCl 51 to 80 ml/min) receiving the same monotherapy dose of 30 mg/m2 twice daily (the maximum 
tolerated dose for monotherapy) as patients with normal renal function (CrCl >80 ml/min) had an 
increase in mean 5-FU AUC0-inf relative to that of the normal patients. Patients with moderate renal 
impairment (CrCl 30 to 50 ml/min) who received a reduced dose of 20 mg/m2 twice daily showed no 
significant increase in mean 5-FU AUC0-inf relative to that of the normal group. The increase in 5-FU 
exposure in patients with mild renal impairment in this study together with the results of simulation in 
the population pharmacokinetic analysis suggest that a Teysuno dose of 25 mg/m2 twice daily in 
patients with mild renal impairment could achieve 5-FU plasma concentrations similar to those 
obtained in patients with normal renal function receiving 30 mg/m2 twice daily as monotherapy and 
also those with moderate renal impairment receiving 20 mg/m2 twice daily. 
Following a reduced dose of Teysuno 20 mg/m2 administered once daily to the severe renal 
impairment group (CrCl < 30 ml/min), the single-dose AUC0-inf and multiple-dose AUC0-τ values for 
5-FU were approximately 2-fold higher in the severe renal impairment group compared to those 
observed in the normal renal function group receiving 30 mg/m2 twice daily. Therefore, the daily 
exposure to 5-FU would be expected to be comparable in these groups, since the daily exposure in 
patients in the severe renal impairment group is based on the administration of Teysuno once a day, 
while the daily exposure to 5-FU in the patients with normal renal function is based on the 
administration of Teysuno twice daily. However, it is to be noted that the exposure to 5-FU can be 
variable and unexpectedly higher in patients with severe renal impairment due to the impact of 
fluctuations in renal function in these patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
There were no significant differences in AUCs of 5-FU, tegafur, gimeracil, or oteracil after either 
single or multiple dose administration of Teysuno 30 mg/m2 twice daily in patients with mild, 
moderate, or severe hepatic impairment compared to those with normal hepatic function. After single 
dose administration, there was a statistically significant decrease in 5-FU and gimeracil Cmax for the 
severe hepatic impairment group relative to that of the normal group, but this difference was not 
observed after multiple dose administration. 
Ethnic differences 
A Phase I study investigated the pharmacokinetics of Teysuno monotherapy in Asian (Chinese/Malay) 
and Caucasian (US) patients.  Consistent with the lower CYP2A6 activity in the Asian patients, 
tegafur AUC0-12 was higher and T1/2 was longer in the Asian group compared to the Caucasian group. 
Gimeracil and uracil AUC0-12 values were comparable between the two groups, suggesting that DPD 
inhibition was similar for the Asian and Caucasian groups. Exposure of 5-FU was not statistically 
significantly different between the two groups. Oteracil AUC0-12 in the Asian group was 
approximately half that of the Caucasian group, however, this difference was not statistically 
significant due to its large individual variability. 
Studies in Japanese patients have suggested an effect of CYP2A6*4 polymorphism on Teysuno 
pharmacokinetics. Although CYP2A6 variants are associated with pharmacokinetic variability of 
tegafur, the AUC of gimeracil, which is affected by renal function, is the key determinant in the 
pharmacokinetic variability of 5-FU. In the Phase III (FLAGS) study, tegafur AUC was significantly 
higher in patients with the CYP2A6*4 allele, however, no significant difference was found for 5-FU 
AUC and for the incidence of adverse reactions. Therefore, the CYP2A6 polymorphism differences 
between Asian and Western populations do not appear to be the key determinant for differences in the 
MTD between populations. However, limited data available on CYP2A6*4/*4 genotype in Japanese 
patients treated with Teysuno suggest significantly decreased 5-FU levels in this subpopulation. No 
dose advice for this subpopulation can be provided. This CYP2A6*4 allele is uncommon in the 
Caucasian population. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
No pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted with Teysuno in paediatric patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats, dogs and monkeys produced changes typically associated with 
administration of an anti-cancer medicinal product eliciting cytotoxic effects on populations of rapidly 
dividing cells, such as anaemia, decrease in the immune and digestive system function, disruption of 
spermatogenesis, and atrophy in male and female reproductive organs. 
Treatment with Teysuno produced various skin effects in rat (keratosis of footpad and tail) and dog 
(skin crusts and erosions). In addition, hyperpigmentation in the skin and eyes and corneal opacity in 
dogs and cataracts in rats were observed following repeat dosing. These changes were reversible. 
Teysuno does not appear to affect male or female fertility in the rat; however, administration at any 
time after conception resulted in a range of external, visceral, and skeletal foetal abnormalities in rat 
and rabbit. There is therefore a high risk for developmental toxicity at clinical doses, primarily due to 
tegafur (5-FU) and to oteracil to a lesser extent. 
Teysuno was not carcinogenic in either the rat or the mouse. Teysuno was not found to be mutagenic 
when tested in the in vitro Ames assay. Teysuno was clastogenic in vitro using Chinese hamster lung 
cells and was weakly clastogenic in vivo in mouse bone marrow. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule contents 
Lactose monohydrate 
Magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Red iron oxide (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Sodium lauryl sulphate 
Talc 
Printing ink 
Red iron oxide (E172) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Indigo carmine (E132) 
Carnauba wax 
Bleached shellac 
Glyceryl monooleate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
5 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PCTFE/PVC/Al opaque blisters containing 14 capsules each. Each pack contains either 42 capsules, 
84 capsules or 126 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Hands should be washed after handling capsules. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/669/001 
EU/1/11/669/002 
EU/1/11/669/005 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 14 March 2011 
Date of latest renewal: 19 November 2015 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teysuno 20 mg/5.8 mg/15.8 mg hard capsules 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each hard capsule contains 20 mg tegafur, 5.8 mg gimeracil and 15.8 mg oteracil (as monopotassium). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each hard capsule contains 93.6 mg lactose monohydrate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule (capsule). 
The capsule has an opaque white body and opaque white cap imprinted “TC442” in grey. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Teysuno is indicated in adults: 
- 
- 
for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer when given in combination with cisplatin (see section 
5.1). 
as monotherapy or in combination with oxaliplatin or irinotecan, with or without bevacizumab, for 
the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer for whom it is not possible to continue 
treatment with another fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiovascular toxicity that 
developed in the adjuvant or metastatic setting. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Teysuno should only be prescribed by a qualified physician experienced in treating cancer patients 
with anti-neoplastic medicinal products. 
Patients should be provided with outpatient prescriptions for anti-emetic and anti-diarrhoeal medicinal 
products.  
The patient's BSA must be recalculated and the Teysuno dose adjusted accordingly if a patient’s 
weight increases or decreases by ≥10% from the one used for the previous calculation of BSA and 
the change is clearly not related to fluid retention. 
Posology 
Advanced gastric cancer when given in combination with cisplatin 
The recommended standard dose of Teysuno when administered in combination with cisplatin is 
25 mg/m2 (expressed as tegafur content) twice daily, morning and evening, for 21 consecutive days 
followed by 7 days rest (1 treatment cycle). This treatment cycle is repeated every 4 weeks. 
The standard and reduced Teysuno and cisplatin doses and calculations according to body surface area 
(BSA) for doses of Teysuno given in combination with cisplatin are provided in Table 1 and Table 2, 
respectively.  
The recommended dose of cisplatin with this regimen is 75 mg/m2 by intravenous infusion 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administered once every 4 weeks. Cisplatin should be discontinued after 6 cycles without withdrawal 
of Teysuno. If cisplatin is discontinued before 6 cycles, Teysuno treatment alone can be resumed 
when the criteria for restarting it are met. 
Patients treated with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin should be closely monitored and 
laboratory tests, including haematology, liver function, renal function, and serum electrolytes, should 
be performed frequently. Treatment should be discontinued if progressive disease or intolerable 
toxicity is observed. 
Refer to the cisplatin summary of product characteristics (SmPC) for pretreatment hyperhydration. 
Teysuno doses in advanced gastric cancer 
Table 1: Standard dose and dose reductions allowed for Teysuno and/or for cisplatin in advanced gastric 
cancer 
Medicinal 
product 
Standard dose 
(mg/m2) 
25a 
Teysuno 
and/or 
75 
Cisplatin 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
Dose reduction 1 
(mg/m2) 
20a 
60 
→ 
→ 
→ 
→ 
Dose reduction 2 
(mg/m2) 
15a 
45 
Teysuno dose calculations in advanced gastric cancer 
Table 2: Standard and reduced dose calculations in advanced gastric cancer by body surface area (m2) 
Teysuno dose 
Each dose in mg 
(each dosing)a 
Total daily dose 
in mga 
Number of capsules for each dose 
(2 doses/day) 
Standard dosea: 25 mg/m2 
BSA  2.30 m2 
BSA = 2.10 – 2.29 m2 
BSA = 1.90 – 2.09 m2 
BSA = 1.70 – 1.89 m2 
BSA = 1.50 – 1.69 m2 
BSA = 1.30 – 1.49 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
First dose reductiona: to 20 mg/m2 
BSA ≥ 2.13 m2 
BSA = 1.88 – 2.12 m2 
BSA = 1.63 – 1.87 m2 
BSA = 1.30 – 1.62 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
Second dose reductiona: to 15 mg/m2 
BSA ≥ 2.17 m2 
BSA = 1.67 – 2.16 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.66 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
Calculate BSA to 2 decimal places. 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
60 
55 
50 
45 
40 
35 
30 
45 
40 
35 
30 
20 
35 
30 
20 
15 
15 mg capsulea
(brown/white) 
0 
1 
2 
3 
0 
1 
2 
20 mg capsulea
(white) 
3 
2 
1 
0 
2 
1 
0 
3 
0 
1 
2 
0 
1 
2 
0 
1 
0 
2 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
120 
110 
100 
90 
80 
70 
60 
90 
80 
70 
60 
40 
70 
60 
40 
30 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metastatic colorectal cancer, as monotherapy or in combination with oxaliplatin or irinotecan, with 
or without bevacizumab, for whom it is not possible to continue treatment with another 
fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome (HFS) or cardiotoxicity 
The proposed dose in mCRC for monotherapy is 30 mg/m2 b.i.d. days 1-14 with a one-week pause (± 
bevacizumab 7.5 mg/kg on day 1). For combination therapy (with oxaliplatin or irinotecan), 25 mg/m2 
b.i.d. d1-14 followed by one-week pause is recommended.  
Teysuno doses in Metastatic colorectal cancer 
Table 3a: Standard dose and dose reductions allowed for Teysuno monotherapy in metastatic colorectal 
cancer 
Medicinal 
product 
Standard dose 
(mg/m2) 
30a 
Teysuno 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
Dose reduction 1 
(mg/m2) 
25a 
→ 
→ 
Dose reduction 2 
(mg/m2) 
20a 
Table 3b: Standard dose and dose reductions allowed for Teysuno combination therapy in metastatic 
colorectal cancer 
Medicinal 
product 
Teysuno 
And/or 
Standard dose 
(mg/m2) 
25a 
Oxaliplatinb,c,d 
Irinotecanc,d 
130 
150-225f 
→ 
→ 
→ 
Dose reduction 1 
(mg/m2) 
20a,e 
100e 
g 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
b Chung KY, Saito K, Zergebel C, Hollywood E, Segal M, Saltz LB. Phase I study of two schedules of 
oral S-1 in combination with fixed doses of oxaliplatin and bevacizumab in patients with advanced solid 
tumors. Oncology. 2011;81(2):65-72. 
c  Winther  SB,  Zubcevic  K,  Qvortrup  C,  et  al.  Experience  with  S-1  in  older  Caucasian  patients  with 
metastatic  colorectal  cancer  (mCRC):  Findings  from  an  observational  chart  review.  Acta  Oncol. 
2016;55(7):881-885. 
d Österlund P, Kinos S, Pfeiffer P, et al. Continuation of fluoropyrimidine treatment with S-1 after 
cardiotoxicity on capecitabine- or 5-fluorouracil-based therapy in patients with solid tumours: a multi-
centre retrospective observational cohort study. Manuscript Submitted 2021. 
e Winther SB, Liposits G, Skuladottir H, et al. Reduced-dose combination chemotherapy (S-1 plus 
oxaliplatin) versus full-dose monotherapy (S-1) in older vulnerable patients with metastatic colorectal 
cancer (NORDIC9): a randomised, open-label phase 2 trial. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 
2019;4(5):376-388. 
f While the best dose of irinotecan is not known and is used in combination with Teysuno in ranges 
between 150-225 mg/m2, the most relevant experience comes from irinotecan dosing of 180-200 mg/m2 
g No recommendation can be made and dose reduction will be dependent on the starting dose 
Teysuno dose calculations in Metastatic colorectal cancer 
Table 4: Standard and reduced dose calculations by body surface area (m2) in metastatic colorectal 
cancer 
Teysuno dose 
Each dose in mg 
(each dosing)a 
Total daily dose 
in mga 
Number of capsules for each dose 
(2 doses/day) 
Standard dosea: 30 mg/m2 
BSA  2.30 m2 
BSA = 2.10 - 2.29 m2 
BSA = 1.90 - 2.09 m2 
BSA = 1.70 - 1.89 m2 
15 mg capsulea
(brown/white) 
2 
3 
0 
1 
20 mg capsulea
(white) 
2 
1 
3 
2 
70 
65 
60 
55 
140 
130 
120 
110 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
0 
1 
1 
2 
1 
50 
40 
35 
100 
80 
70 
60 
55 
50 
45 
40 
35 
30 
120 
110 
100 
90 
80 
70 
60 
BSA = 1.50 - 1.69 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.49 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
First dose reductiona: to 25 mg/m2# 
BSA  2.30 m2 
BSA = 2.10 - 2.29 m2 
BSA = 1.90 - 2.09 m2 
BSA = 1.70 - 1.89 m2 
BSA = 1.50 - 1.69 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.49 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
Second dose reductiona: to 20 mg/m2 
BSA ≥ 2.13 m2 
BSA = 1.88 - 2.12 m2 
BSA = 1.63 - 1.87 m2 
BSA = 1.30 - 1.62 m2 
BSA ≤ 1.29 m2 
Calculate BSA to 2 decimal places. 
a Expressed as tegafur content. 
Kwakman JJM et al. Randomized Phase III trial of S-1 versus capecitabine in the first-line treatment of 
metastatic colon cancer: SALTO study by the Dutch Colorectal Cancer group, Annals of Oncology 2017, 28; 
(6): 1288–93 
# 25 mg/m2 is the standard dose in case of combination therapy with oxaliplatin or irinotecan 
45 
40 
35 
30 
20 
90 
80 
70 
60 
40 
3 
2 
1 
0 
2 
1 
0 
0 
1 
2 
3 
0 
1 
2 
0 
2 
1 
0 
1 
3 
0 
1 
2 
0 
Adjustments during treatment 
General 
Toxicity due to Teysuno administration should be managed with symptomatic treatment and/or 
treatment interruption or dose reduction. Patients taking Teysuno should be informed of the risks and 
instructed to contact their physician immediately if moderate or severe toxicity occurs. 
Doses omitted for toxicity are not replaced; and, if a patient vomits after taking a dose, this dose 
should not be replaced. 
Once the Teysuno dose has been reduced, it should not be increased again. 
Teysuno dose modification criteria 
Dose modifications for toxicity should be made according to Tables 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7.  A maximum of 
two consecutive dose reductions for each medicinal product, as described in Table 1, for advanced 
gastric cancer and table 3 for metastatic colorectal cancer, can be applied in case of toxicity. Each 
dose reduction results in approximately 20-25% reduction of dose.  
In case of advanced gastric cancer, see Table 2 for the details of the number of Teysuno capsules to be 
administered for each dose level.  
In case of metastatic colorectal cancer, see Table 4 for the details of the number of Teysuno capsules 
to be administered for each dose level. For minimum criteria for resumption of Teysuno treatment, see 
Table 8. 
Teysuno dose modifications for toxicity when used in combination with cisplatin can be made in two 
ways. 
During a 4-week cycle of treatment 
Teysuno should only be given on Days 1 to 21 of each cycle, i.e., treatment should not be given on 
Days 22 to 28 of a cycle. Treatment days missed in a cycle where medicinal product was held due to 
toxicity should not be replaced. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During a treatment cycle, dose adjustment should be performed for each individual medicinal product 
that is considered to be causally related to the toxicity, if such a distinction can be made. If both 
medicinal products are considered to be causing the toxicity or it is not possible to distinguish them, 
then dose reduction should be performed for both according to the recommended dose reduction 
schedule. 
At the initiation of subsequent cycles of treatment 
If a treatment delay is indicated for either Teysuno or cisplatin, then administration of both medicinal 
products should be delayed until the requirements for restarting both are met unless one of the 
medicinal products has been permanently discontinued. 
Dose modifications for Teysuno for adverse reactions in general except for haematologic and renal 
toxicities 
Table 5: Teysuno dose reduction schedule for treatment-related toxicities in general, except for 
haematologic and renal toxicities 
Toxicity gradesa 
Teysuno dose changes within a 21-day 
treatment cycle 
Teysuno dose adjustment 
for next dose / next cycle 
Grade 1 
Any occurrence 
Grade 2b,c 
Any occurrence 
Grade 3 or higherc 
First occurrence 
Maintain treatment at same dose level 
Suspend treatment until Grade 0 or 1 
None 
None 
Second occurrence 
Suspend treatment until Grade 0 or 1 
Suspend treatment until Grade 0 or 1 
Reduce by 1 dose level from 
previous level 
Reduce by 1 dose level from 
previous level 
Third occurrence 
Discontinue treatment 
a According to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) of the Cancer Therapy 
Evaluation Program, US National Cancer Institute, version 3.0. 
b For Grade 2 nausea and/or vomiting, the anti-emetic therapy should be optimized prior to a suspension of 
Teysuno. 
c At the discretion of the treating physician, patients may continue with treatment without reduction or 
interruption for adverse reactions (irrespective of grade) considered unlikely to become serious or life- 
threatening (e.g., alopecia, changes in sexual function, and dry skin). 
Discontinue treatment 
Dose modifications for renal toxicities 
Creatinine clearance (CrCl) must be determined for every cycle before the start of treatment on Day 1. 
Table 6: Teysuno and cisplatin dose modification according to creatinine clearance values at the start 
of a cycle of treatment 
Creatinine 
clearance 
≥50 ml/min 
30 to 49 ml/min 
Teysuno dose modification at the 
start of the cycle of treatment 
No dose modification 
Start treatment at one reduced dose 
level 
<30 ml/mina 
Suspend treatment until resumption 
criterion (≥30 ml/min) is met and 
then start treatment at one reduced 
dose level 
Cisplatin dose modification at the 
start of the cycle of treatment 
No dose modification 
Start cisplatin treatment at a 50% 
dose reduction from the previous 
cycle 
Suspend cisplatin treatment until 
resumption criterion (≥30 ml/min) is 
met and then start treatment at a 50% 
dose reduction from the previous 
cycle 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a Treatment for patients with CrCl <30 ml/min is not recommended unless the benefits of Teysuno 
treatment clearly outweigh the risks. Refer to “Dose modifications for special populations / Renal 
impairment for guidance.” 
Dose modifications for haematologic toxicities 
Table 7: Haematologic toxicities for which Teysuno treatment should be suspended 
Units 
Neutrophils 
Platelets 
Haemoglobin 
IU 
<0.5 x 109/l 
<25 x 109/l 
4.0 mmol/l 
Teysuno dose modification 
Suspend treatment until 
resumption criterion is met 
(see Table 8) and then resume 
dosing at one reduced dose level. 
Resumption criteria for Teysuno treatment 
Table 8: Minimum criteria to resume Teysuno treatment following its suspension due to a toxicity 
Non-haematologic 
Haematologic 
Baseline or Grade 1 
Calculated creatinine clearance ≥30 ml/mina  Neutrophils ≥1.5 x 109/l 
Platelet count ≥100 x 109/l 
Haemoglobin ≥6.2 mmol/l 
CrCl must be calculated at the beginning of every cycle before the start of treatment with Teysuno 
on Day 1. 
a Treatment for patients with CrCl <30 ml/min is not recommended unless the benefits of Teysuno treatment 
clearly outweigh the risks. Refer to “Dose modifications for special populations / Renal impairment for 
guidance.” 
Dose modifications for special populations 
Renal impairment 
•  Mild renal impairment (CrCl 51 to 80 ml/min) 
No adjustment of the standard dose is recommended in patients with mild renal impairment (see 
section 5.2). 
•  Moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 50 ml/min) 
The recommended standard dose in patients with moderate renal impairment is 20 mg/m2 twice 
daily (expressed as tegafur content) (see sections 4.8 and 5.2). 
•  Severe renal impairment (CrCl below 30 ml/min) 
Although roughly similar daily exposure to 5-FU would be expected in patients with severe 
renal impairment at a dose of 20 mg/m2 once daily compared to 30 mg/m2 twice daily in patients 
with normal renal function (see section 5.2), administration of Teysuno is not recommended due 
to possibly higher incidence of adverse events of the blood and lymphatic system disorders 
unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
No data is available regarding Teysuno administration in patients with end stage renal disease 
requiring dialysis (see section 4.3). 
Elderly 
In both indications, no adjustment of the standard dose is recommended in patients >70 years old (see 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
section 4.8). 
For elderly, more vulnerable patients, in case of  metastatic colorectal cancer, and where it is not possible 
to continue treatment with another fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiotoxicity, the 
recommended dose is 20 mg/m2 (expressed as tegafur content) twice daily, morning and evening, for 14 
consecutive days followed by 7 days rest, in combination with oxaliplatin (100 mg/m2 on day 1 of a 3-
week cycle). 
Hepatic impairment 
No adjustment of the standard dose in both indications is recommended for patients with 
hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Ethnicity 
No adjustment of the standard dose in both indications is recommended for patients of Asian ethnicity (see 
section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Teysuno in children and adolescents under 18 years old have not been 
established. No data are available. Therefore, Teysuno should not be administered to children or 
adolescents under 18 years of age. 
Method of administration 
The capsules should be taken by mouth with water at least 1 hour before or 1 hour after a meal (see 
section 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to any of the active substances (tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil) or to any of the 
excipients listed in section 6.1. 
History of severe and unexpected reactions to fluoropyrimidine therapy. 
Known complete dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency (see section 4.4). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
Severe bone marrow suppression (severe leukopaenia, neutropaenia, or thrombocytopaenia; see 
section 4.2, Table 7). 
End stage renal disease patients requiring dialysis. 
Co-administration of other fluoropyrimidines with Teysuno. 
Recent or concomitant treatment with brivudine (see section 4.4 and 4.5 for drug-drug 
interaction). 
Contraindications for cisplatin, oxaliplatin, irinotecan and bevacizumab; refer to the corresponding 
SmPCs. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Dose limiting toxicities include diarrhoea and dehydration. Most adverse reactions are reversible and 
can be managed by symptomatic therapy, dose interruptions and dose reductions. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bone marrow suppression 
Treatment-related bone marrow suppression, including neutropaenia, leukopaenia, thrombocytopaenia, 
anaemia, and pancytopaenia, has been reported among patients treated with Teysuno in combination 
with cisplatin. Patients with low white blood cell counts should be monitored carefully for infection 
and risk of other complications of neutropaenia and treated as medically indicated (e.g., with 
antibiotics, granulocyte-colony stimulating factor [G-CSF]). Patients with low platelet counts are at 
increased risk for bleeding and should be monitored carefully. The dose should be modified as 
recommended in section 4.2. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Administration of Teysuno in hepatitis B virus carriers, HBc antigen negative and HBc antibody 
positive patients, or HBs antigen negative and HBs antibody positive patients may result in 
reactivation of hepatitis B. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Teysuno. Experts in liver 
disease and in the treatment of hepatitis B should be consulted before treatment is initiated in patients 
with positive hepatitis B serology (including those with active disease) and for patients who test 
positive for HBV infection during treatment. Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Teysuno 
should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy, and 
follow-up monitoring for hepatic function tests or viral markers are recommended. 
Diarrhoea 
Patients with diarrhoea should be carefully monitored and given fluid and electrolyte replacement if 
they become dehydrated. Prophylactic treatment for diarrhoea should be administered as indicated. 
Standard anti-diarrhoeal therapy (e.g., loperamide) and intravenous fluids/electrolytes should be 
initiated early when diarrhoea develops. Dose suspension/adjustment should be implemented with the 
occurrence of Grade 2 or higher diarrhoea if symptoms persist despite adequate treatment. 
Dehydration 
Dehydration and any associated electrolyte disturbances should be prevented or corrected at onset. 
Patients with anorexia, asthenia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, stomatitis, and gastrointestinal 
obstruction should be monitored closely for signs of dehydration. Dehydration should be managed 
aggressively with rehydration and other appropriate measures. If Grade 2 (or higher) dehydration 
occurs, treatment should be immediately suspended and the dehydration corrected. Treatment should 
not be resumed until dehydration and its underlying causes are corrected or adequately controlled. 
Dose modifications should be applied for the precipitating adverse reaction as necessary (see 
section 4.2). 
Renal toxicity 
Treatment with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin may be associated with a transient decline of 
glomerular filtration rate caused primarily by pre-renal factors (e.g., dehydration, electrolyte 
imbalance, etc). Adverse reactions of Grade 3 or higher such as increased blood creatinine, decreased 
creatinine clearance, toxic nephropathy, and acute renal failure have all been reported in patients 
receiving Teysuno in combination with cisplatin (see section 4.8). To detect early changes in renal 
function during treatment, renal parameters should be closely monitored (e.g., serum creatinine, CrCl). 
If deterioration of glomerular filtration rate is observed, Teysuno and/or cisplatin dose should be 
adjusted according to Table 6, and appropriate supportive measures taken (see section 4.2). 
Dehydration and diarrhoea may increase the risk of renal toxicity for cisplatin. Hyperhydration 
(forced diuresis) should be administered according to the cisplatin SmPC to reduce the risk of renal 
toxicity associated with cisplatin therapy. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gimeracil increases 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) exposure by inhibiting DPD, the primary enzyme for 
metabolizing 5-FU. Gimeracil is primarily cleared by the kidney (see section 5.2); so, in patients with 
renal insufficiency gimeracil renal clearance is decreased and 5-FU exposure thus increased. 
Treatment-related toxicities can be expected to increase as 5-FU exposure increases (see section 5.2). 
Severe renal impairment 
Treatment with Teysuno is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment due to possibly 
higher incidence of adverse events of the blood and lymphatic system and the possibility of 
unexpectedly higher exposure to 5-FU as a result of fluctuations in renal function in these patients, 
unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks (see sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.2). 
Ocular toxicity 
The most common treatment-related ocular disorders among patients in studies in Europe/United 
States of America (EU/USA) treated with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin were lacrimal 
disorders (8.8%), including increased lacrimation, dry eye, and acquired dacryostenosis (see 
section 4.8). 
Most ocular reactions will resolve or improve with suspension of medicinal product and proper 
treatment (instillation of artificial tears, antibiotic eye drops, implantation of glass or silicone tubes in 
lacrimal punctas or canaliculi, and/or use of spectacles rather than contact lenses). Efforts should be 
made to ensure early detection of ocular reactions, including an early ophthalmologic consultation in 
the event of any persistent or vision-reducing ocular symptoms such as lacrimation or corneal 
symptoms. 
Refer to the cisplatin SmPC for eye disorders observed with cisplatin therapy. 
Coumarin-derivative anticoagulant 
Patients receiving oral coumarin-derivative anticoagulant therapy must have their anticoagulant 
response (International Normalized Ratio for prothrombin time [INR] or prothrombin time [PT]) 
monitored closely and the anticoagulant dose adjusted accordingly (see section 4.5). The use of 
coumarin-derivative anticoagulant in clinical trials has been associated with elevated INR and 
gastrointestinal bleeding, bleeding tendency, haematuria, and anaemia in patients receiving Teysuno 
therapy. 
Brivudine 
Brivudine must not be administered concomitantly with Teysuno. Fatal cases have been reported 
following capecitabine interaction. There must be at least a 4-week waiting period between end of 
treatment with brivudine and start of Teysuno therapy. Treatment with brivudine can be started 24 
hours after the last dose of Teysuno (see section 4.3 and 4.5). 
In the event of accidental administration of brivudine to patients being treated with Teysuno, effective 
measures should be taken to reduce the toxicity of Teysuno. Immediate admission to hospital is 
recommended. All measures should be initiated to prevent systemic infections and dehydration. 
DPD inducers 
If a DPD inducer were to be concomitantly administered with Teysuno, the exposure of 5-FU might 
not reach the efficacious level. However, since no DPD inducers are currently known, the interaction 
between a DPD inducer and Teysuno can not be evaluated. 
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency: 
DPD activity is rate limiting in the catabolism of 5-fluorouracil (see Section 5.2). Patients with DPD 
deficiency are therefore at increased risk of fluoropyrimidines-related toxicity including for example 
stomatitis, diarrhoea, mucosal inflammation, neutropenia and neurotoxicity. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DPD-deficiency related toxicity usually occurs during the first cycle of treatment or after dose increase. 
Complete DPD deficiency 
Complete DPD deficiency is rare (0.01-0.5% of Caucasians). Patients with complete DPD deficiency 
are at high risk of life-threatening or fatal toxicity and must not be treated with Teysuno (see section 
4.3). 
Partial DPD deficiency 
Partial DPD deficiency is estimated to affect 3-9% of the Caucasian population. Patients with partial 
DPD  deficiency  are  at  increased  risk  of  severe  and  potentially  life-threatening  toxicity.  A  reduced 
starting  dose  should  be  considered  to  limit  this  toxicity.  DPD  deficiency  should  be  considered  as  a 
parameter to be taken into account in conjunction with other routine measures for dose reduction. Initial 
dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment. In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses 
may be increased with careful monitoring. 
Testing for DPD deficiency 
Phenotype and/or genotype testing prior to the initiation of treatment with Teysuno is recommended 
despite uncertainties regarding optimal pre-treatment testing methodologies. Consideration should be 
given to applicable clinical guidelines. 
When this was not done before, testing is recommended for patients for whom a switch to Teysuno 
from another fluoropyrimidine is considered due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiovascular toxicity in 
order to determine whether a DPD phenotype and/or genotype could have played a role in the 
development of toxicity on another fluoropyrimidine. 
Genotypic characterisation of DPD deficiency 
Pre-treatment testing for rare mutations of the DPYD gene can identify patients with DPD deficiency. 
The  four  DPYD  variants  c.1905+1G>A  [also  known  as  DPYD*2A],  c.1679T>G  [DPYD*13], 
c.2846A>T  and  c.1236G>A/HapB3  can  cause  complete  absence  or  reduction  of  DPD  enzymatic 
activity. Other rare variants may also be associated with an increased risk of severe or life-threatening 
toxicity. 
Certain homozygous and compound heterozygous mutations in the DPYD gene locus (e.g. combinations 
of the four variants with at least one allele of c.1905+1G>A or c.1679T>G) are known to cause complete 
or near complete absence of DPD enzymatic activity. 
Patients with certain heterozygous DPYD variants (including c.1905+1G>A, c.1679T>G, c.2846A>T 
and  c.1236G>A/HapB3  variants)  have  increased  risk  of  severe  toxicity  when  treated  with 
fluoropyrimidines. 
The frequency of the heterozygous c.1905+1G>A genotype in the DPYD gene in Caucasian patients is 
around  1%,  1.1%  for  c.2846A>T,  2.6-6.3%  for  c.1236G>A/HapB3  variants  and  0.07  to  0.1%  for 
c.1679T>G. 
Data on the frequency of the four DPYD variants in other populations than Caucasian is limited. At the 
present, the four DPYD variants (c.1905+1G>A, c.1679T>G, c.2846A>T and c.1236G>A/HapB3) are 
considered virtually absent in populations of African (-American) or Asian origin. 
Phenotypic characterisation of DPD deficiency 
For phenotypic characterisation of DPD deficiency the measurement of pre-therapeutic blood levels of 
the endogenous DPD substrate uracil (U) in plasma is recommended. 
Elevated pre-treatment uracil concentrations are associated with an increased risk of toxicity. Despite 
36 
 
 
 
uncertainties on uracil thresholds defining complete and partial DPD deficiency, a blood uracil level ≥ 
16 ng/ml and < 150 ng/ml should be considered indicative of partial DPD deficiency and associated with 
an increased risk for fluoropyrimidine toxicity. A blood uracil level ≥ 150 ng/ml should be considered 
indicative  of  complete  DPD  deficiency  and  associated  with  a  risk  for  life-threatening  or  fatal 
fluoropyrimidine toxicity. 
Microsatellite instability (MSI) 
Teysuno has not been studied in gastric cancer patients with MSI. The association between 5-FU 
sensitivity and MSI in patients with gastric cancer is unclear and the association between Teysuno and 
MSI in gastric cancer is unknown. 
Glucose/galactose intolerance/malabsorption 
This medicinal product contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, the Lapp lactase deficiency or glucose/galactose malabasorption should not take this 
medicinal product. 
Other oral fluoropyrimidines 
No clinical trials are available comparing Teysuno versus other oral 5-FU compounds. Therefore, 
Teysuno cannot be used as a substitute for other oral 5-FU products. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed in adult or paediatric patients. 
Brivudine 
A clinically significant interaction between brivudine and fluoropyrimidines (e.g. capecitabine, 5- 
Fluorouracil, tegafur), resulting from the inhibition of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase by brivudine, 
has been described. This interaction, which leads to increased fluoropyrimidine toxicity, is potentially 
fatal. Therefore, brivudine must not be administered concomitantly with Teysuno (see section 4.3 and 
4.4). There must be at least a 4-week waiting period between end of treatment with brivudine and start 
of Teysuno therapy. Treatment with brivudine can be started 24 hours after the last dose of Teysuno. 
Other fluoropyrimidines 
Co-administration of other fluoropyrimidines such as capecitabine, 5-FU, tegafur, or flucytosine can 
lead to additive toxicities, and is contraindicated. A minimum washout period of 7 days is 
recommended between administration of Teysuno and other fluoropyrimidines. The washout period 
described in the SmPC of other fluoropyrimidine medicinal products should be followed if Teysuno is 
to be administered subsequent to other fluoropyrimidine medicinal products. 
CYP2A6 inhibitors 
As CYP2A6 is the major enzyme responsible for the conversion of tegafur to 5-FU, co-administration 
of a known CYP2A6 inhibitor and Teysuno should be avoided as effectiveness of Teysuno could be 
decreased (see section 5.2). 
Folinate/folinic acid 
No data are available on the concomitant use of folinic acid with Teysuno in combination with 
cisplatin. However, metabolites of folinate/folinic acid will form a ternary structure with thymidylate 
synthase and fluorodeoxyuridine monophosphate (FdUMP), potentially increasing the cytotoxicity of 
5-FU. Caution is advised as folinic acid is known to enhance the activity of 5-FU. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nitroimidazoles, including metronidazole and misonidazole 
No data are available on the concomitant use of nitromidazoles with Teysuno in combination with 
cisplatin. However, nitromidazoles may reduce clearance of 5-FU and thus increase plasma levels of 
5-FU. Caution is advised as co-administration may increase the toxicity of Teysuno. 
Methotrexate 
No data are available on the concomitant use of methotrexate with Teysuno in combination with 
cisplatin. However, polyglutamated methotrexate inhibits thymidylate synthase and dihydrofolate 
reductase, potentially increasing cytotoxicity of 5-FU. Caution is advised as co-administration may 
increase the toxicity of Teysuno. 
Clozapine 
No data are available on the concomitant use of clozapine with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin. 
However, due to possible additive pharmacodynamic effects (myelotoxicity), caution is advised as co- 
administration may increase the risk and severity of haematologic toxicity of Teysuno. 
Cimetidine 
No data are available on the concomitant use of cimetidine with Teysuno in combination with 
cisplatin. However, co-administration may decrease clearance and, thus increase plasma levels of 
5-FU. Caution is advised as co-administration may increase the toxicity of Teysuno. 
Coumarin-derivative anticoagulant 
The activity of a coumarin-derivative anticoagulant was enhanced by Teysuno. Caution is advised as 
co-administration of Teysuno and coumarin anticoagulation therapy may increase the risk of bleeding 
(see section 4.4). 
Phenytoin 
Fluoropyrimidines may increase phenytoin plasma concentration when administered concomitantly 
with phenytoin causing phenytoin toxicity. Frequent monitoring of phenytoin blood/plasma levels is 
advised when Teysuno and phenytoin are administered concomitantly. If indicated, the dose of 
phenytoin should be adjusted according to the phenytoin SmPC. If phenytoin toxicity develops, 
appropriate measures should be taken. 
Other 
Based on non-clinical data, allopurinol may decrease anti-tumour activity due to suppression of 
phosphorylation of 5-FU. Therefore, concurrent administration with Teysuno should be avoided. 
Food 
Administration of Teysuno with a meal reduced exposure to oteracil and gimeracil, with a more 
pronounced effect for oteracil than for gimeracil (see section 5.2). It should be taken with water at 
least 1 hour before or 1 hour after a meal (see section 4.2). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving 
treatment with this medicinal product. 
Contraceptive measures must be taken by male patients during and up to 3 months after stopping 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment with Teysuno. 
Contraceptive measures must be taken by female patients during and up to 6 months after stopping 
treatment with Teysuno. 
Pregnancy 
Teysuno is contraindicated in pregnancy (see section 4.3). There have been some case reports of 
foetal abnormalities. Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity. As with other 
fluoropyrimidines, Teysuno administration caused embryolethality and teratogenicity in animals (see 
section 5.3). If the patient becomes pregnant while receiving Teysuno, treatment should be 
discontinued and the potential risk to the foetus must be explained. Genetic counseling should be 
considered. 
Breast-feeding 
Teysuno is contraindicated during breast-feeding (see section 4.3). It is not known whether Teysuno 
or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in 
animals have shown excretion of Teysuno or its metabolites in milk (for details see section 5.3). 
A risk to newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding must be discontinued while receiving 
treatment with Teysuno. 
Fertility 
No data are available on the effect of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin on human fertility. 
Non-clinical studies demonstrated that Teysuno did not appear to affect male or female fertility in the 
rat (see section 5.3). 
Refer to the cisplatin SmPC for the effects of cisplatin on fertility, pregnancy and lactation. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Teysuno has a moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines as fatigue, dizziness, 
blurred vision, and nausea are common adverse reactions of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
The overall safety profile of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin is based primarily on clinical study 
data from 593 patients with advanced gastric cancer treated with this regimen. In addition, there is 
post-marketing experience in over 866,000 Asian (mainly Japanese) patients. 
Among 593 patients treated with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin, the most common severe 
adverse reactions (Grade 3 or higher with frequency of at least 10%) were neutropaenia, anaemia, and 
fatigue. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following headings are used to rank the adverse reactions by frequency: very common (≥1/10), 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare 
(<1/10,000), and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). The frequencies of very 
common, common, and uncommon adverse reactions are from 593 patients treated with Teysuno in 
combination with cisplatin in clinical trials. The frequencies of medically relevant rare and very rare 
adverse reactions are estimated from post-marketing surveillance of 866,000 patients in Asia (mostly 
Japanese) treated with Teysuno-based therapy. Each term is presented in its most common category 
only and within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Adverse reactions reported by decreasing seriousness in each frequency grouping 
System Organ 
Classa 
Infections and 
Infestations 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(incl. cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Febrile neutropenia, 
lymphopenia 
Neutropenia, 
leukopenia, 
anaemia, 
thrombo- 
cytopenia 
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Anorexia 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Dehydration, 
hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hypomagnesaemia, 
hypoalbuminaemia, 
hyperkalaemia 
Insomnia 
Rare / Very 
rare 
Hepatitis B 
reactivation 
Disseminated 
intravascular 
coagulation 
Neutropenic sepsis, septic shock, sepsis, 
infection, pneumonia, bacteremia, 
respiratory tract infection, upper 
respiratory tract infection, pyelonephritis 
acute, urinary tract infection, 
pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, 
tooth infection, candidiasis, oral herpes, 
paronychia, furuncle 
Tumour haemorrhage, cancer pain 
Pancytopenia, prothrombin time 
prolonged, international normalised ratio 
increased, hypoprothrombinaemia, 
prothrombin time shortened, 
granulocytosis, leukocytosis, 
eosinophilia, lymphocytosis, monocyte 
count decreased, monocyte count 
increased, thrombocythaemia 
Hypersensitivity 
Adrenal haemorrhage 
Hyperglycaemia, blood alkaline 
phosphatase increased, blood lactate 
dehydrogenase increased, 
hypophosphatameia, hypermagnesaemia, 
gout, hypoproteinaemia, 
hyperglobulinaemia, hyperlipidaemia, 
oral intake reduced 
Confusional state, restlessness, 
personality disorder, hallucination, 
depression, anxiety, libido decreased, 
sexual inhibition 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Classa 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Very 
common 
Peripheral 
neuropathy 
Eye disorders 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
tThoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeleta 
l and 
connective 
tissue disorders 
Diarrhoea, 
vomiting, 
nausea, 
constipation 
Rare / Very 
rare 
Leukoenceph- 
alopathy, 
anosmia 
Interstitial lung 
disease 
Acute 
pancreatitis
, terminal 
ileitis 
Acute hepatic 
failure 
Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, 
photosensitivity 
reaction, nail 
disorder 
Rhabdomyolysis 
Common 
Uncommon 
Dizziness, 
headache, 
dysgeusia 
Vision disorder, 
lacrimal disorder, 
conjunctivitis, 
corneal disorder b 
Hearing 
impairment, 
deafness 
Hypotension, deep 
vein thrombosis, 
hypertension 
Dyspnoea, 
epistaxis, hiccups, 
cough 
Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage, 
stomatitis, 
gastrointestinal 
inflammation, 
flatulence, 
abdominal pain, 
dysphagia, 
abdominal 
discomfort, 
dyspepsia, dry 
mouth 
Hyperbilirubin- 
aemia, alanine 
aminotransferase 
increased, aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased 
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome, rash, 
skin 
hyperpigmentation, 
dry skin, pruritus, 
alopecia, 
Musculoskeletal 
pain 
Cerebrovascular accident, cerebellar 
infarction, cerebrovascular disorder, 
convulsion, ischaemic stroke, syncope, 
hemiparesis, aphasia, ataxia, metabolic 
encephalopathy, loss of consciousness, 
acoustic neuritis, memory impairment, 
balance disorder, somnolence, tremor, 
ageusia, parosmia, burning sensation, 
formication 
Eye allergy, eyelid ptosis, erythema of 
eyelid 
Vertigo, ear congestion, ear discomfort 
Cardiac failure, acute myocardial 
infarction, pericardial effusion, atrial 
fibrillation, angina pectoris, cardiac 
fibrillation, tachycardia, palpitations 
Iliac artery thrombosis, hypovolaemic 
shock, arterial limb thrombosis, 
thrombosis, flushing, pelvic venous 
thrombosis, thrombophlebitis, phlebitis, 
phlebitis superficial, orthostatic 
hypotension, haematoma, hyperaemia, 
hot flush 
Pulmonary embolism, respiratory tract 
haemorrhage, exertional dyspnoea, 
pharyngolaryngeal pain, rhinorrhoea, 
pharyngeal erythema, rhinitis allergic, 
dysphonia, productive cough, nasal 
congestion 
Gastrointestinal perforation, 
oesophagitis, gastrointestinal infection, 
ileus, gastrointestinal obstruction, 
ascites, lip oedema, oesophageal spasm, 
gastric ulcer, gastroesophageal reflux 
disease, reflux gastritis, retroperitoneal 
fibrosis, gastrointestinal disorder, anal 
haemorrhage, haemorrhoids, salivary 
hypersecretion, retching, salivary gland 
disorder, cheilitis, aerophagia, 
eructation, glossodynia, oral pain, teeth 
brittle 
Liver function test abnormal, gamma 
glutamyltransferase increased 
Exfoliative rash, skin exfoliation, 
necrolytic migratory erythema, blood 
blister, dermatitis allergic, skin reaction, 
dermatitis acneiform, erythema, 
increased tendency to bruise, purpura, 
hyperhidrosis, night sweats, nail atrophy, 
pigmentation disorder, skin 
discoloration, hypertrichosis 
Muscle spasms, arthralgia, pain in 
extremity, back pain, neck pain, bone 
pain, joint swelling, limb discomfort, 
muscle tightness, muscular weakness 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare / Very 
rare 
Very 
common 
System Organ 
Classa 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Fatigue. 
asthenia 
Renal failure, blood 
creatinine 
increased, 
glomerular 
filtration rate 
decreased, blood 
urea increased 
Mucosal 
inflammation, 
pyrexia, weight 
decreased, 
peripheral oedema, 
chills 
Toxic nephropathy, oligouria, 
haematuria, renal impairment, 
pollakiuria, blood creatine increased, 
blood creatinine decreased 
Erectile dysfunction, breast tenderness, 
nipple pain 
Multi-organ failure, performance status 
decreased, pain, oedema, chest pain, 
chest discomfort, generalized oedema, 
face oedema, local swelling, localized 
oedema, weight increased, early satiety, 
feeling cold, injection site reaction, 
malaise 
Contusion, medication error 
Injury, 
poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
a Adverse reactions in the Investigations system organ class (SOC) have been reallocated to clinically appropriate SOCs 
related to their target organ. 
Different MedDRA preferred terms that were considered clinically similar have been grouped into a single term. 
b incl corneal epithelium defect, corneal erosion, corneal lesion, corneal opacity, corneal perforation, keratitis, punctate 
keratitis, ulcerative keratitis, limbal stem cell deficiency visual acuity reduced, visual impairment, vision blurred. 
Other clinical studies with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin 
Although studies of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin that were conducted in Japan utilised doses 
and dosing schedules that differed from this regimen, the safety profile from these studies was similar, 
with the most common toxicities being haematologic, gastrointestinal, fatigue, and anorexia. 
Post-marketing surveillance experience in gastric cancer patients 
The safety profile of Teysuno in a post-marketing safety surveillance study in Japan of 4,177 patients 
treated with Teysuno for advanced gastric cancer was generally similar to that seen with this regimen 
and in the Japanese registration studies (i.e., major toxicities were leukocytopaenia, anorexia, and 
nausea/vomiting). 
Safety of Teysuno in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer for whom it is not possible to 
continue treatment with another fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiovascular 
toxicity 
In a subgroup of 53 mCRC patients, within a cohort study of 200 patients with different solid tumours,  
the majority of these mCRC patients (92%) who developed cardiotoxicity while on capecitabine- or 5-FU-
based chemotherapy could safely switch to S-1 and continue treatment, with recurrent cardiotoxicity 
(grade 1) seen in 8%.  Other adverse events during S-1 treatment in this subgroup included grade 3-4 
haematologic toxicity in 8% and grade 2-4 non-haematologic adverse events in  36% (neuropathy 15%, 
infection 7%, thromboembolic event 6%, diarrhoea 4%, nausea 2%, hand-foot syndrome 2%).  
In a retrospective  cohort study of 47 metastatic colorectal cancer patients from the Dutch colorectal 
cancer registry (PLCRC) switching to S-1 due to capecitabine-induced hand-foot syndrome (n=36) or 
cardiotoxicity (n=10) the severity of HFS decreased or completely resolved during treatment with S-1 and 
no case of recurrence of cardiac toxicity was reported in any of the 10 patients that switched to S-1 due to 
cardiac adverse events.  
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Ocular toxicity 
Terms for treatment-related ocular toxicities have been combined as follows. The only Grade 3 or 
higher adverse reaction was reduced visual acuity. 
•  Vision disorder includes adverse reactions of blurred vision, diplopia, photopsia, reduced visual 
acuity, and blindness; 
•  Lacrimal disorder includes adverse reactions of increased lacrimation, dry eye, and acquired 
dacryostenosis; 
•  Eye disorder includes adverse reactions of eye pruritus, ocular hyperaemia, eye irritation, eye 
disorder, and foreign body sensation in eyes. 
Neuropathy 
Central and peripheral neuropathy has been reported in patients treated with Teysuno in combination 
with cisplatin. The term peripheral neuropathy includes the following reported adverse reactions: 
peripheral sensory neuropathy, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, peripheral neuropathy, polyneuropathy, 
neurotoxicity, and dysaesthesia. 
Special populations 
Elderly (see section 4.2) 
Comparison of safety between 71 patients ≥70 years old (elderly) and 450 patients <70 years old 
treated with Teysuno in combination with cisplatin in the FLAGS study demonstrated that the 
incidence of all Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions (62% vs 52%), all serious adverse reactions (30% 
vs 19%), and the rate of premature withdrawal due to adverse reactions from both Teysuno and 
cisplatin (21% vs 12%) appeared to be higher among patients ≥70 years old. A population 
pharmacokinetics analysis demonstrated that 5-FU exposure also tended to increase with age, but the 
extent of the increase was within the range of individual variability. These changes with age were 
related to changes in renal function as measured by creatinine clearance (see section 5.2). 
Gender 
There were no clinically relevant differences in safety between males (N=382) and females (N=139) in 
the FLAGS study. 
Patients with renal impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, and 5.2) 
Comparison of 218 patients with mild renal impairment at baseline (CrCl 51 to 80 ml/min) to 
297 patients with normal renal function at baseline (CrCl >80 ml/min) treated with Teysuno in 
combination with cisplatin in the FLAGS study indicated that there were no clinically significant 
differences in safety between patients with mild renal impairment and patients with normal renal 
function. 
In a study performed in patients with renal impairment, the most common adverse reactions reported 
over all cycles across all cohorts were diarrhoea (57.6%), nausea (42.4%), vomiting (36.4%), fatigue 
(33.3%) and anaemia (24.2%). In this study, 7 patients with moderate renal impairment were treated 
with 20 mg/m2 Teysuno twice daily, while 7 patients with severe renal impairment received Teysuno 
20 mg/m2 once daily. No dose limiting toxicities were observed in Cycle 1 in patients with moderate 
or severe renal impairment. The incidence of blood and lymphatic systems disorders adverse reactions 
observed across all cycles in the moderate and severe renal impairment patients were 28.6% and 
44.4%, respectively. The dose for one patient in the severe cohort was reduced to 13.2 mg/m2 once 
daily at the start of Cycle 12 due to an adverse reaction (Grade 2 diarrhoea) in Cycle 11. 
Paediatric population 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No studies have been performed with Teysuno alone or in combination with cisplatin in paediatric 
patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The highest single dose of Teysuno taken was 1400 mg; this patient developed leukopenia (Grade 3). 
Manifestations of acute overdose reported include nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, mucositis, 
gastrointestinal irritation, bleeding, bone marrow depression, and respiratory failure. Medical 
management of overdose should include customary therapeutic and supportive medical interventions 
aimed at correcting the presenting clinical manifestations and preventing their possible complications. 
There is no known antidote available in case of overdose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antineoplastic agents, antimetabolites, ATC code: L01BC53. 
Mechanism of action 
Teysuno is an oral fluoropyrimidine anti-cancer medicinal product. It is a fixed dose combination of 
three active substances, tegafur, which after absorption is converted into the anti-cancer substance 
5-FU; gimeracil, a dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) inhibitor to prevent degradation of 5-FU 
by the body; and, oteracil, an orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT) inhibitor that decreases the 
activity of 5-FU in normal gastrointestinal mucosa. The combination of tegafur, gimeracil, and 
oteracil was set at 1:0.4:1 molar ratio as optimum in order to maintain 5-FU exposure and thus sustain 
anti-tumour activity while reducing toxicity associated with 5-FU alone. 
Tegafur is a prodrug of 5-FU with good oral bioavailability. Following oral administration, tegafur is 
gradually converted to 5-FU in vivo, mainly by CYP2A6 enzyme activity in the liver. 5-FU is 
metabolised by the liver enzyme DPD. 5-FU is activated within cells by phosphorylation to its active 
metabolite, 5-fluoro-deoxyuridine-monophosphate (FdUMP). FdUMP and reduced folate are bound 
to thymidylate synthase leading to formation of a ternary complex which inhibits DNA synthesis. In 
addition, 5-fluorouridine-triphosphate (FUTP) is incorporated into RNA causing disruption of RNA 
functions. 
Gimeracil inhibits the metabolism of 5-FU by reversibly and selectively inhibiting DPD, the primary 
metabolic enzyme for 5-FU, so that higher plasma concentrations of 5-FU are achieved with the 
administration of a lower dose of tegafur. 
After oral administration, oteracil was distributed at high concentrations in normal gastrointestinal 
tract tissues while considerably lower concentrations were seen in blood and tumour tissue in animal 
studies. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In a dose escalation study comparing the tolerability of 5_FU in Teysuno and tegafur + gimeracil (no 
oteracil), the 25 mg/m2 dose level could not be attained in the absence of oteracil due to the occurrence 
of dose limiting toxicities (Grade 3 diarrhoea in 2 patients, and cardio-respiratory arrest in 1 patient) in 
the tegafur+gimeracil arm. The 5-FU pharmacokinetic profile was similar in the presence and absence 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of oteracil. 
Mean 5-FU maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and area under the concentration-time curve 
(AUC) values were approximately 3-fold higher after Teysuno administration than after administration 
of tegafur alone, despite a 16-fold lower Teysuno dose (50 mg of tegafur) compared to tegafur alone 
(800 mg), and are attributed to inhibition of DPD by gimeracil. Maximum plasma uracil concentration 
was observed at 4 hours, with a return to baseline levels within approximately 48 hours after dosing, 
indicating the reversibility of the DPD inhibition by gimeracil. 
A study of the effect of Teysuno on cardiac repolarisation conducted in advanced cancer patients met 
the definition for a negative study according to International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) 
guidelines. No consistent relationship was seen between absolute QTcF interval values or change 
from Baseline values and maximum plasma concentration of Teysuno components. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
A Phase I study established the current regimen by evaluating cohorts of Teysuno and cisplatin of 
30 mg/m2 and 60 mg/m2 (dose-limiting toxicities [DLTs] seen were fatigue, and diarrhoea and 
dehydration); 25 mg/m2 and 60 mg/m2; and 25 mg/m2 and 75 mg/m2. Despite the lack of DLTs in the 
last cohort, the dose of cisplatin was not elevated beyond 75 mg/m2. 
In the Phase III FLAGS study, there was no apparent relationship between 5-FU AUC 
(Teysuno/cisplatin arm) and 5-FU concentration (5-FU/cisplatin arm) during Cycle 1 and efficacy 
outcomes of overall survival (OS) or progression-free survival (PFS). 
A Phase I study was conducted to evaluate the PK of the components of Teysuno and their 
metabolites in cancer patients with impaired renal function compared to those with normal renal 
function. In this study, antitumor activity was measured by best overall tumour response. The majority 
(70.4%) of patients had Stable Disease as a best response (based on Investigator’s assessment using 
RECIST criteria) and 29.6% patients had Progressive Disease as their best overall response. No dose 
limiting toxicities were observed in the first cycle of treatment. 
Advanced gastric cancer 
Data from a multicentre, multinational (excluding Asia), randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III 
clinical study (FLAGS) support the use of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin for the treatment of 
patients with advanced gastric cancer. In this study, 521 patients were randomised to treatment with 
Teysuno (25 mg/m2 orally twice daily for 21 days followed by a 7-day rest period) and cisplatin 
(75 mg/m2 intravenous infusion once every 4 weeks); and 508 patients were randomised to treatment 
with 5-FU (1000 mg/m2/24 hours as a continuous intravenous infusion on Days 1 through 5 repeated 
every 4 weeks) and cisplatin (100 mg/m2 as an intravenous infusion on Day 1 repeated every 4 weeks). 
Patient characteristics are provided in Table 10. 
Table 10: Demographics and baseline characteristics of patients in the FLAGS study 
Teysuno + Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 
(N=521) 
5-FU + Cisplatin 100 mg/m2 
(N=508) 
Gender, n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Age, years 
Median (Range) 
≥65, n (%) 
Race, n (%) 
White 
Black or African American 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Other 
ECOG Performance Status, n (%) 
0 
1 
382 (73) 
139 (27) 
59 (18-83) 
160 (31) 
447 (86) 
5 (1.0) 
4 (0.8) 
4 (0.8) 
61 (12) 
226 (43) 
295 (57) 
45 
347 (68) 
161 (32) 
60 (20-85) 
164 (32) 
438 (86) 
7 (1.4) 
4 (0.8) 
6 (1.2) 
53 (10) 
200 (39) 
308 (61) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Location of primary lesion, n (%) 
Stomach 
Gastro-oesophageal junction 
Both 
Metastatic disease, n (%) 
≥2 metastatic sites 
438 (84) 
82 (16) 
1 (0.2) 
497 (95) 
340 (65) 
417 (82) 
88 (17) 
3 (0.6) 
488 (96) 
327 (64) 
For the primary endpoint of overall survival, Teysuno in combination with cisplatin was non-inferior 
to 5-FU in combination with cisplatin (see Table 11). At the time of primary analysis, the median 
follow-up for overall survival in the full analysis set was 18.3 months. 
Table 11: Overall survival and progression-free survival in FLAGS 
Teysuno + Cisplatin 
5-FU + Cisplatin 
Endpoint 
Population 
Overall Survival 
Intent-to-treat 
Full analysis set 
Progression-free Survival 
N 
527 
521 
Median [95% CI]. 
months 
8.5 [7.9, 9.3] 
8.6 [7.9, 9.5] 
N 
526 
508 
Median [95% CI], 
months 
Hazard Ratio 
[95% CI] 
7.9 [7.2, 8.5] 
7.9 [7.2, 8.5] 
0.94 [0.82, 1.07] 
0.92 [0.80, 1.05] 
Full analysis set 
521 
4.8 [4.0, 5.5] 
508 
5.5 [4.4, 5.8] 
0.99 [0.86, 1.14] 
CI = confidence interval; Full analysis set = all randomised, treated patients analysed as allocated (primary analysis 
population) 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Teysuno in all subsets of the paediatric population in gastric adenocarcinoma (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
Metastatic colorectal cancer after switch to Teysuno when it was not possible to continue treatment 
with another fluoropyrimidine due to hand-foot syndrome or cardiovascular toxicity 
Within a European cohort study of 200 patients who were switched from 5-FU or capecitabine based 
therapy because of cardiotoxicity to continue with Teysuno based therapy, there is a subgroup of 
metastatic colorectal cancer patients (n=53). In this mCRC subgroup, the majority of patients (92%) 
were able to safely switch to Teysuno and continue treatment irrespective of the treatment combinations, 
with recurrent cardiotoxicity seen in 8% (all grade 1). With this switch, 100% of the patients were able 
to complete their planned chemotherapy. In addition, for the CRC patients with metastatic disease, the 
median overall survival was 26 months (95% CI 22-31), with a 5-year survival rates of 12%. 
In a retrospective  cohort study of 47 metastatic colorectal cancer patients from the Dutch colorectal 
cancer registry (PLCRC) switching to S-1 due to capecitabine-induced hand-foot syndrome (n=36) or 
cardiotoxicity (n=10), the median time from initiation of treatment with capecitabine to first documented 
progression of disease after initiation of treatment with S-1 was 414 days (95% confidence interval 332-
568 days).  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The single and multiple dose pharmacokinetics (PK) of Teysuno in combination with cisplatin were 
evaluated in three studies. Eighteen additional PK studies were performed using the relevant regimen 
as monotherapy. All studies were performed in cancer patients. 
Absorption 
After administration of a single dose of 50 mg Teysuno (expressed as tegafur content) in man 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(approximately 30 mg/m2 based on body surface area of 1.56 to 2.10 m2 for a typical patient; N=14), 
the median Tmax for Teysuno components tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil was 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 hours, 
respectively, and the mean ± standard deviation (SD) AUC0-inf and Cmax was 14595 ± 4340 ng.hr/ml 
and 1762 ± 279 ng/ml for tegafur, 1884 ± 640 ng.hr/ml and 452 ± 102 ng/ml for gimeracil, 
556 ± 281 ng.hr/ml and 112 ± 52 ng/ml for oteracil. The median Tmax for 5-FU was 2.0 hours and the 
mean AUC0-inf and Cmax was 842 ± 252 ng.hr/ml and 174 ± 58 ng/ml. Levels of tegafur, gimeracil, 
oteracil and 5-FU were quantifiable through 10 hours postdose. After administration of 30 mg/m2
doses, steady-state conditions are reached for tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil at the latest by Day 8. 
After multiple dose administration (30 mg/m2, expressed as tegafur content, twice daily for 14 days; 
N=10), the median Tmax of tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil was 0.8, 1.0, and 2.0 hours, respectively, 
and the corresponding mean ± SD AUC(0-12h) and Cmax was 19967 ± 6027 ng.hr/ml and 
2970 ± 852 ng/ml for tegafur, 1483 ± 527 ng.hr/ml and 305 ± 116 ng/ml for gimeracil, and 
692 ± 529 ng.hr/ml and 122 ± 82 ng/ml for oteracil. The median Tmax for 5-FU was 2.0 hours and the 
mean AUC(0-12h) and Cmax was 870 ± 405 ng.hr/ml and 165 ± 62 ng/ml, respectively. 
Administration of Teysuno under fed conditions resulted in decreased AUC0-inf for oteracil of 
approximately 71% and gimeracil of approximately 25% relative to fasting administration. 
Concomitant administration of a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) reduced the effect of food on the 
pharmacokinetic profile of oteracil, but not by a sufficient margin to completely negate the food effect. 
There was a 15% decrease in AUC0-inf for 5-FU under fed versus fasting conditions, and tegafur 
exposure was not altered by food (thus demonstrating absence of a food effect). 
Mean AUC0-inf and Cmax for 5-FU were approximately 3-fold greater following administration of 
Teysuno (50 mg expressed as tegafur content) than following administration of tegafur alone (800 mg), 
while AUC0-inf and Cmax values for the 5-FU metabolite α-fluoro-β-alanine (FBAL) were approximately 
15- to 22-fold lower following administration of Teysuno than following administration of tegafur. 
The oteracil component of Teysuno did not affect the pharmacokinetic profiles of 5-FU, tegafur, 
gimeracil, FBAL, or uracil. The gimeracil component did not affect the pharmacokinetic profile of 
tegafur. 
Distribution 
Oteracil, gimeracil, 5-FU, and tegafur were 8.4%, 32.2%, 18.4%, and 52.3% protein bound, respectively. 
The protein binding in human serum was not concentration-dependent over a range of 0.1 to 1.0 µg/ml for 
oteracil, gimeracil, and 5-FU and 1.2 to 11.8 µg/ml for tegafur. 
There are no clinical data on the distribution of radiolabeled components of Teysuno. Although no 
intravenous data are available for Teysuno in humans, the volume of distribution could be roughly 
estimated from the apparent volume of distribution and urinary excretion data as 16 l/m2, 17 l/m2, and 
23 l/m2 for tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil, respectively. 
Biotransformation 
The main metabolic pathway for tegafur is through conversion to 5-FU via CYP2A6 in the liver, 
whereas gimeracil was stable in human liver homogenate (S9 fraction) with adenosine 3’-phosphate 
5'-phosphosulfphate lithium salt (PAPS; a co-factor for sulfotransferase) or nicotinamide adenine 
dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH). Based on the results of in vitro studies, a part of oteracil is 
non-enzymatically degraded to 5-azauracil (5-AZU) by gastric fluid, and is then converted to cyanuric 
acid (CA) in the digestive tract. 5-AZU and CA do not inhibit OPRT enzyme activity. Only a small 
amount of oteracil is metabolised in the liver because of its low permeability. 
In vitro evaluation using human liver microsomes indicated that neither tegafur, gimeracil nor oteracil 
showed any relevant inhibitory effects on enzyme activities of the cytochrome P450 isoforms tested 
(i.e., CYP1A1/2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4). 
In vitro evaluation using primary cultures of human hepatocytes indicated that tegafur (0.7-70 µM), 
gimeracil (0.2-25 µM) and oteracil (0.04-4 µM) had little or no inductive effect on CYP1A2, CYP2B6 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or CYP3A4/5 metabolic activities. 
Using plasma uracil concentrations to assess DPD activity in clinical studies, no marked changes in 
plasma uracil concentrations were observed after administration of a single 800 mg dose of tegafur 
while plasma uracil concentrations increased markedly after administration of a single 50 mg dose of 
Teysuno (reflecting DPD inhibition by gimeracil). Following both single dose (50 mg) and multiple 
dose (30 mg/m2 twice daily) administration of Teysuno in man, maximum uracil concentrations 
reflecting DPD inhibition were observed approximately 4 hours postdose. Similar inhibition was seen 
following single and multiple dosing. The plasma concentrations of uracil returned to baseline levels 
approximately 48 hours after dosing indicating reversibility of DPD inhibition by gimeracil. 
Elimination 
In man, the apparent terminal elimination half-life (T1/2) of 5-FU observed after administration of 
Teysuno (containing tegafur, a 5-FU prodrug) was longer (approximately 1.6 - 1.9 hours) than that 
previously reported after intravenous administration of 5-FU (10 to 20 minutes). Following a single 
dose of Teysuno, T1/2 values ranged from 6.7 to 11.3 hours for tegafur, from 3.1 to 4.1 hours for 
gimeracil, and from 1.8 to 9.5 hours for oteracil. 
Following a single dose of Teysuno, approximately 3.8% to 4.2% of administered tegafur, 65% to 
72% of administered gimeracil, and 3.5% to 3.9% of administered oteracil were excreted unchanged 
in the urine. Among the metabolites, 9.5% to 9.7% of the administered tegafur was excreted in the 
urine as 5-FU and approximately 70% to 77% as FBAL, accounting for approximately 83% to 91% of 
the administered Teysuno dose (total tegafur + 5-FU + FBAL). There was no effect of gimeracil on 
renal clearance of tegafur, FBAL, and 5-FU following administration of Teysuno as compared to their 
clearance following administration of tegafur alone. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
In a Japanese Phase I study that utilized 5 dose groups with doses ranging from 25 to 200 mg/body, 
there was a dose-proportional increase in exposure for tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil. However, the 
increase in 5-FU exposure tended to be greater than proportional to the increasing tegafur dose. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
A population PK analysis of Teysuno components and metabolites assessed the influence of various 
factors, including gender, age, food, ethnicity (Caucasian vs Asian), renal function, and hepatic 
function in 315 patients. Renal function, as reflected by creatinine clearance, was the primary factor 
that influenced gimeracil exposure and 5-FU exposure. As renal function decreased, there was an 
increase in 5-FU steady state exposure. This analysis also demonstrated that the trend in changes in 
Teysuno pharmacokinetics observed with increasing age was related to change in renal function as 
measured by creatinine clearance. 
Renal impairment 
In a Phase I Teysuno monotherapy study that investigated the pharmacokinetics of components and 
metabolites in patients with normal and impaired renal function, patients with mild renal impairment 
(CrCl 51 to 80 ml/min) receiving the same monotherapy dose of 30 mg/m2 twice daily (the maximum 
tolerated dose for monotherapy) as patients with normal renal function (CrCl >80 ml/min) had an 
increase in mean 5-FU AUC0-inf relative to that of the normal patients. Patients with moderate renal 
impairment (CrCl 30 to 50 ml/min) who received a reduced dose of 20 mg/m2 twice daily showed no 
significant increase in mean 5-FU AUC0-inf relative to that of the normal group. The increase in 5-FU 
exposure in patients with mild renal impairment in this study together with the results of simulation in 
the population pharmacokinetic analysis suggest that a Teysuno dose of 25 mg/m2 twice daily in 
patients with mild renal impairment could achieve 5-FU plasma concentrations similar to those 
obtained in patients with normal renal function receiving 30 mg/m2 twice daily as monotherapy and 
also those with moderate renal impairment receiving 20 mg/m2 twice daily. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following a reduced dose of Teysuno 20 mg/m2 administered once daily to the severe renal 
impairment group (CrCl < 30 ml/min), the single-dose AUC0-inf and multiple-dose AUC0-τ values for 
5-FU were approximately 2-fold higher in the severe renal impairment group compared to those 
observed in the normal renal function group receiving 30 mg/m2 twice daily. Therefore, the daily 
exposure to 5-FU would be expected to be comparable in these groups, since the daily exposure in 
patients in the severe renal impairment group is based on the administration of Teysuno once a day, 
while the daily exposure to 5-FU in the patients with normal renal function is based on the 
administration of Teysuno twice daily. However, it is to be noted that the exposure to 5-FU can be 
variable and unexpectedly higher in patients with severe renal impairment due to the impact of 
fluctuations in renal function in these patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
There were no significant differences in AUCs of 5-FU, tegafur, gimeracil, or oteracil after either 
single or multiple dose administration of Teysuno 30 mg/m2 twice daily in patients with mild, 
moderate, or severe hepatic impairment compared to those with normal hepatic function. After single 
dose administration, there was a statistically significant decrease in 5-FU and gimeracil Cmax for the 
severe hepatic impairment group relative to that of the normal group, but this difference was not 
observed after multiple dose administration. 
Ethnic differences 
A Phase I study investigated the pharmacokinetics of Teysuno monotherapy in Asian (Chinese/Malay) 
and Caucasian (US) patients.  Consistent with the lower CYP2A6 activity in the Asian patients, 
tegafur AUC0-12 was higher and T1/2 was longer in the Asian group compared to the Caucasian group. 
Gimeracil and uracil AUC0-12 values were comparable between the two groups, suggesting that DPD 
inhibition was similar for the Asian and Caucasian groups. Exposure of 5-FU was not statistically 
significantly different between the two groups. Oteracil AUC0-12 in the Asian group was 
approximately half that of the Caucasian group, however, this difference was not statistically 
significant due to its large individual variability. 
Studies in Japanese patients have suggested an effect of CYP2A6*4 polymorphism on Teysuno 
pharmacokinetics. Although CYP2A6 variants are associated with pharmacokinetic variability of 
tegafur, the AUC of gimeracil, which is affected by renal function, is the key determinant in the 
pharmacokinetic variability of 5-FU. In the Phase III (FLAGS) study, tegafur AUC was significantly 
higher in patients with the CYP2A6*4 allele, however, no significant difference was found for 5-FU 
AUC and for the incidence of adverse reactions. Therefore, the CYP2A6 polymorphism differences 
between Asian and Western populations do not appear to be the key determinant for differences in the 
MTD between populations. However, limited data available on CYP2A6*4/*4 genotype in Japanese 
patients treated with Teysuno suggest significantly decreased 5-FU levels in this subpopulation. No 
dose advice for this subpopulation can be provided. This CYP2A6*4 allele is uncommon in the 
Caucasian population. 
Paediatric population 
No pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted with Teysuno in paediatric patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats, dogs and monkeys produced changes typically associated with 
administration of an anti-cancer medicinal product eliciting cytotoxic effects on populations of rapidly 
dividing cells, such as anaemia, decrease in the immune and digestive system function, disruption of 
spermatogenesis, and atrophy in male and female reproductive organs. 
Treatment with Teysuno produced various skin effects in rat (keratosis of footpad and tail) and dog 
(skin crusts and erosions). In addition, hyperpigmentation in the skin and eyes and corneal opacity in 
dogs and cataracts in rats were observed following repeat dosing. These changes were reversible. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Teysuno does not appear to affect male or female fertility in the rat; however, administration at any 
time after conception resulted in a range of external, visceral, and skeletal foetal abnormalities in rat 
and rabbit. There is therefore a high risk for developmental toxicity at clinical doses, primarily due to 
tegafur (5-FU) and to oteracil to a lesser extent. 
Teysuno was not carcinogenic in either the rat or the mouse. Teysuno was not found to be mutagenic 
when tested in the in vitro Ames assay. Teysuno was clastogenic in vitro using Chinese hamster lung 
cells and was weakly clastogenic in vivo in mouse bone marrow. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule contents 
Lactose monohydrate 
Magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Sodium lauryl sulphate 
Talc 
Printing ink 
Red iron oxide (E172) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Indigo carmine (E132) 
Carnauba wax 
Bleached shellac 
Glyceryl monooleate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
5 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PCTFE/PVC/Al opaque blisters containing 14 capsules each. either 42 capsules or 84 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Hands should be washed after handling capsules. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/669/003 
EU/1/11/669/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 14 March 2011 
Date of renewal: 19 November 2015 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Nordic Pharma B.V. 
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Millmount Healthcare Limited 
Block7, City North 
Business Campus, Stamullen 
Co. Meath, K32 YD60 
Ireland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are 
set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web- 
portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
• 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of 
the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the EMA 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PAGKAGE LEAFLET 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teysuno 15 mg/4.35 mg/11.8 mg hard capsules 
tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 15 mg tegafur, 4.35 mg gimeracil and 11.8 mg oteracil (as salt). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsules 
42 capsules 
84 capsules 
126 capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V., Siriusdreef 41, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/669/001 
EU/1/11/669/002 
EU/1/11/669/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Teysuno 15 mg/4.35 mg/11.8 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
<2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.> 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
< PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teysuno 15 mg/4.35 mg/11.8 mg capsules 
tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teysuno 20 mg/5.8 mg/15.8 mg hard capsules 
tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 20 mg tegafur, 5.8 mg gimeracil and 15.8 mg oteracil (as salt). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsules 
42 capsules 
84 capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V., Siriusdreef 41, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/669/003 
EU/1/11/669/004 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Teysuno 20 mg/5.8 mg/15.8 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
<2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.> 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
< PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Teysuno 20 mg/5.8 mg/15.8 mg capsules 
tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Teysuno 15 mg/4.35 mg/11.8 mg hard capsules 
tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
- 
- 
- 
- 
important information for you. 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their symptoms are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible any side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Teysuno is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Teysuno 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Teysuno 
Possible side effects 
How to store Teysuno 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What is Teysuno and what is it used for 
Teysuno contains the active substances tegafur gimeracil and oteracil. 
Teysuno belongs to the fluoropyrimidine class of medicines known as “antineoplastic agents” which 
stop the growth of cancer cells. 
Teysuno is prescribed by doctors for: 
-  The treatment of adults with advanced stomach (gastric) cancer and is taken with cisplatin, 
another anti-cancer medicine. 
-  The treatment of cancer of the large intestines and rectum which has spread (metastasized) 
and where it is not possible to continue with another fluoropyrimidine (anti-cancer treatments 
from the same group of medicines as Teysuno) due to side effects on the skin of hands or feet 
(hand-foot syndrome) or on the heart. In these patients, Teysuno is used alone or in 
combination with other anticancer medicines. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Teysuno  
Do not take Teysuno if you: 
- 
are allergic to tegafur, gimeracil, oteracil or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed 
in section 6). 
are taking other fluoropyrimidine anti-cancer medicine such as fluorouracil and capecitabine, or 
have had severe and unexpected reactions to fluoropyrimidines 
know that you do not have any activity of the enzyme dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) 
(complete DPD deficiency) 
are pregnant or breast-feeding 
have severe blood disorders 
have kidney disease requiring dialysis 
are being treated now or have been treated in the last 4 weeks with brivudine as part of herpes 
zoster (chickenpox or shingles) therapy. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Teysuno if you have: 
- 
blood disorders 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
kidney disease 
stomach and/or bowel problems such as pain, diarrhoea, vomiting and dehydration 
eye disorders, such as “dry eye” or increased tearing 
a current or previous infection of the liver with the hepatitis B virus, since your doctor 
may want to monitor you more closely 
a partial deficiency in the activity of the enzyme dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) 
a family member who has partial or complete deficiency of the enzyme 
dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) 
DPD deficiency: DPD deficiency is a genetic condition that is not usually associated with health 
problems unless you receive certain medicines. If you have DPD deficiency and take Teysuno, you are 
at an increased risk of severe side effects (listed under section 4 Possible side effects). It is 
recommended to test you for DPD deficiency before start of treatment. If you have no activity of the 
enzyme you should not take Teysuno. If you have a reduced enzyme activity (partial deficiency) your 
doctor might prescribe a reduced dose. If you have negative test results for DPD deficiency, severe 
and life-threatening side effects may still occur. 
Children and adolescents 
Teysuno is not recommended for children under 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Teysuno 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
You must not take brivudine (an anti-viral medicine for the treatment of shingles or chickenpox) 
at the same time as Teysuno treatment (including during any rest periods when you are not 
taking any Teysuno capsules). 
If you have taken brivudine you must wait for at least 4 weeks after stopping brivudine before 
starting to take Teysuno. See also section “Do not take Teysuno”. 
Also, you need to be particularly careful if you are taking any of the following: 
- other fluoropyrimidine based medicines such as the anti-fungal flucytosine. Teysuno cannot be 
substituted for other oral fluoropyrimidine medicine. 
- inhibitors of the enzyme CYP2A6 which activates Teysuno such as tranylcypromine and 
methoxsalen 
- folinic acid (often used in chemotherapy with methotrexate) 
- blood-thinning medicines: coumarin-derivative anticoagulants such as warfarin 
- medicines for the treatment of seizures or tremors such as phenytoin 
- medicines that treat gout such as allopurinol 
Teysuno with food and drink 
Teysuno should be taken at least one hour before or one hour after a meal. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Before starting treatment, you must tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are pregnant, if you think you 
are pregnant, or if you intend to become pregnant. You must not take Teysuno if you are pregnant or 
think you might be. 
Men must use contraceptive measures during and up to 3 months after treatment with Teysuno. 
Women must use contraceptive measures during and up to 6 months after treatment with Teysuno. 
If you become pregnant during this time, you must tell your doctor. 
You must not breastfeed if you are taking Teysuno. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Use caution when driving or operating a machine, as Teysuno may make you tired, nauseous or have 
blurred vision. If you have any doubts talk to your doctor. 
Teysuno contains 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lactose (one type of sugar). If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some 
sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Teysuno 
Always take Teysuno exactly as your doctor has told you. You should check with your doctor if you 
are not sure. 
Your doctor will tell you what dose you need to take, when to take it and for how long you need to 
take it. Your dose of Teysuno will be determined by your doctor based on your height and weight. 
Your doctor may reduce the dose if you have side effects that are too severe. 
Teysuno capsules should be swallowed with water at least 1 hour before or 1 hour after a meal. 
Teysuno must be taken twice daily (morning and evening). 
For stomach cancer:  
Teysuno capsules are usually taken for 21 days followed by a 7 day rest period (when no capsules are 
taken). This 28 day period is one treatment cycle. The cycles are repeated. 
Teysuno will be given with another anti-cancer medicine called cisplatin. Cisplatin will be stopped 
after 6 treatment cycles. Teysuno can be continued after stopping cisplatin. 
For cancer of the large intestines or rectum that has spread: 
Teysuno capsules are usually taken for 14 days followed by a 7 day rest period (when no capsules are 
taken). This 21 day period is one treatment cycle. The cycles are repeated. 
Teysuno can be given with other anti-cancer medicines (cisplatin, oxaliplatin, irinotecan or 
bevacizumab), which will depend on your treatment. 
If you take more Teysuno than you should 
If you take more capsules than you should, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Teysuno 
Do not take the missed dose at all and do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
Instead, continue your regular dosing schedule and check with your doctor. 
If you stop taking Teysuno 
There are no side effects caused by stopping treatment with Teysuno. In case you are using blood 
thinning or anti-seizure medicines, stopping Teysuno might require that your doctor adjusts the dose 
of your medicines. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Teysuno can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. While some 
symptoms are easily identified as side effects by the patients themselves, a blood test is required to 
identify some other symptoms. Your doctor will discuss this with you and will explain the possible 
risks and benefits of the treatment. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include: 
-Diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, constipation 
o 
o 
If you experience diarrhoea more than 4 times a day or in the middle of the night, or if you 
experience sore mouth accompanied by diarrhoea, stop taking Teysuno and contact 
your doctor immediately. 
If you experience diarrhoea, avoid high-fibre, fatty and spicy foods. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Take plenty of liquids between meals to replace lost fluids and prevent dehydration, low 
o 
o 
blood volume, and imbalance of salts or chemicals in the blood. 
If you experience nausea and vomit a dose of medication, make sure you tell your doctor. 
Do not replace the dose that has been vomited. 
If you vomit more than two times in 24 hours, stop taking Teysuno and contact your 
doctor immediately. 
o  To help manage nausea and vomiting: 
▪  Lie down or take deep breaths when feeling nauseous 
▪  Avoid tight clothing 
-  Low red blood cell count leading to anaemia 
o  You may have symptoms such as cold hands and feet, looking pale, light-headedness, 
o 
fatigue, breathlessness. 
If you experience any of the above-mentioned symptoms, try not to work too hard and 
get ample sleep and rest. 
-  Low white blood cell count leading to increased risk of severe local (e.g.,oral, lung, urine) or 
blood infections 
o  You may have symptoms such as fever, chills, coughing, sore throat. 
o 
If you have fever of 38.5o C or higher, stop taking Teysuno and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
o  To prevent infection, keep away from crowded places, gargle upon returning home, 
and wash your hands before meals and before and after using the bathroom. 
-  Low platelet count leading to an increased chance of bleeding 
o 
If you have bleeding of the skin, mouth (caused by brushing teeth), nose, respiratory 
tract, stomach, gut, etc., stop taking Teysuno and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
o  To prevent bleeding, avoid hard work or strenuous sports so as to prevent injuries and 
bruises. Wear loose clothing to protect the skin. Brush your teeth and blow your nose 
gently. 
-  Loss of apetite (anorexia) can lead to weight loss and dehydration 
o  You may become dehydrated if you do not eat and/or drink enough water. 
o 
If you become dehydrated you may have symptoms such as dry mouth, weakness, dry 
skin, dizziness, cramping 
o  Try to eat frequent small meals. Avoid fatty and strong-smelling food. Even if you do 
o 
not feel hungry, continue to eat as much as you can to maintain good nutrition. 
If you feel tired and have fever together with loss of appetite, contact your doctor 
immediately. 
-  Nerve disorder: you may feel numbness, tingling, pain, abnormal sensation, weak muscle, 
shaking, or movement difficulties. 
-  Weakness and fatigue, which could be side effects caused by other medicines. 
Common side effects (may affect 1 to 10 in 100 people) include: 
-  Nerve: headache, dizziness, sleeplessness, changes in taste 
-  Eye: eye problems, increased or decreased tearing discomfort, vision problems, serious illness 
with blistering of the eyes, wearing away of the surface “skin” of the eye (corneal erosion). 
-  Ear: hearing problems 
-  Blood vessels: high or low blood pressure, blood clots in the leg and lung 
-  Lung and nasal passages: shortness of breath, cough 
-  Gut and mouth: dry mouth, sores in mouth, throat, and oesophagus, hiccups, abdominal 
pain, indigestion, stomach or bowel inflammation, perforation of the stomach, small intestine, 
and large bowel. 
-  Liver: yellow eyes and skin, changes in blood tests which show the way the liver is working, 
-  Skin: hair loss, itchiness, rash or dermatitis, skin reaction, dry skin, hand-and-foot reaction 
(pain, swelling and redness of hands and/or feet), pigmented skin patches 
-  Kidney: decreased urine volume, changes in blood tests which show the way the kidney is 
working, kidney impairment and failure 
-  Other: chills, weight decrease, swelling in specific areas and muscle bone pain 
66 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon side effects (may affect 1 to 10 in 1,000 people) include: 
-  Mental: seeing and hearing some things that are not there, personality change, unable to sit 
still, confusion, feeling of nervousness, depression, sexual dysfunction 
-  Nerve:, voice disorder, inability to speak and understand words, memory problem, unsteady 
gait, balance problems, one sided body weakness, sleepiness, nerve inflammation, distorted 
sense of smell, brain dysfunction, fainting, loss of consciousness, stroke, seizures 
-  Eye: itchy and red eyes, allergic reactions in eyes, drooping upper eyelid 
-  Ear: vertigo, ear clogging, ear discomfort 
-  Heart: irregular or fast heart beat, chest pain, accumulation of excess fluid around the heart, 
heart attack, heart failure 
-  Blood vessels: inflammation of a vein, hot flush 
-  Lung and nasal passages: runny nose, voice disorder, nasal clogging, pharyngeal erythema, 
hay fever 
-  Gut and mouth: fluid in the abdomen, gastroesophageal reflux disease, increased salivary 
secretion, excessive burping and belching, lip inflammation, gastrointestinal disorder, oral 
pain, abnormal contractions of muscles of the oesophagus, blockage in the stomach and 
intestine, stomach ulcer, retroperitoneal fibrosis, teeth that crack or break easily, swallowing 
difficulty, disorder of the salivary gland, haemorrhoids 
-  Skin: loss of skin colour, peeling skin, excessive body hair, nail shrinkage, excessive 
sweating, 
-  General: general condition worsening, weight increase, redness and swelling at the injection 
site, cancer pain and bleeding, multiple organ failure 
-  Changes in blood tests: high blood sugar, high blood lipids, changes in blood clotting time, 
high blood cell counts, low or high protein level 
-  Other: frequent urination, blood in urine, neck pain, back pain, breast pain, muscle tightness 
or cramps, joint swelling, limb discomfort, muscle weakness, arthritis inflammation and pain 
Rare side effects (may affect 1 to 10 in 10,000 people) and very rare side effects (may affect less 
than 1 in 10,000 people) include: 
loss of sense of smell 
sun allergy 
- 
acute liver failure 
- 
pancreas infection 
-  muscle breakdown 
- 
- 
-  widespread blood clotting and bleeding 
- 
- 
recurrence (reactivation) of hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the past (a liver 
infection) 
disease affecting the white matter of the brain 
serious illness with blistering of the skin, mouth and genitals 
If you experience any of the side effects or if you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet, 
please tell your doctor. 
If any of the side effects get serious, stop taking Teysuno and tell your doctor immediately. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store Teysuno 
-  Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and blister after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
-  This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
-  Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how 
to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Teysuno contains 
-  The active substances are tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil. 
Each hard capsule contains 15 mg tegafur, 4.35 mg gimeracil, and 11.8 mg oteracil (as 
monopotassium). 
-  The other ingredients are: 
Capsule contents: lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell: gelatin, red iron oxide (E172), titanium dioxide (E171), sodium lauryl sulphate, 
talc 
Ink: red iron oxide (E172), yellow iron oxide (E172), Indigo carmine (E132), carnauba wax, 
bleached shellac, glyceryl monooleate 
What Teysuno looks like and contents of the pack 
The hard capsules have a white body and opaque brown cap imprinted "TC448" in grey. They are 
provided in blisters containing 14 capsules each. 
Each pack contains either 42 capsules, 84 capsules or 126 capsules. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Nordic Group B.V. 
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer  
Nordic Pharma B.V. 
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Millmount Healthcare Limited 
Block7, City North 
Business Campus, Stamullen 
Co. Meath, K32 YD60 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Nordic Pharma 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)3 820 5224 
info@nordicpharma.be 
Lietuva 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
България 
AMRING FARMA SRL, 
Tel. : +40 31 620 1204 
RO.OfficeRomania@nordicpharma.com  
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Nordic Pharma 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)3 820 5224 
info@nordicpharma.be 
Česká republika 
NORDIC Pharma, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 241 080 770 
info@nordicpharma.cz 
Danmark 
Nordic Drugs 
Tlf: +46 (0)40 36 66 00 
info@nordicdrugs.dk 
Magyarország NORDIC 
Pharma, s.r.o.  
Tel: +420 241 080 770 
info@nordicpharma.cz 
Malta 
Nordic Pharma (France)  
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Deutschland 
Nordic Pharma 
Tel: +49 (0)89 889 690 680 
info@nordicpharma.de 
Nederland 
Nordic Pharma BV 
Tel: +31 (0)85 48 35 871 
info-nl@nordicpharma.com 
Eesti 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Norge 
Nordic Drugs 
Tlf: +46 40-36 66 00 
info@nordicdrugs.no 
Ελλάδα 
Aenorasis S.A. 
Τηλ: +30 210 6136332 
info@aenorasis.gr 
Österreich 
Nordic Pharma 
Tel: +49 (0)89 889 690 680 
info@nordicpharma.de 
España 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Polska 
AMRING FARMA SRL, 
Tel. : +40 31 620 1204 
RO.OfficeRomania@nordicpharma.com  
France 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Portugal 
Nordic Pharma (France)  
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hrvatska 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
România 
AMRING FARMA SRL, 
Tel. : +40 31 620 1204 
RO.OfficeRomania@nordicpharma.com  
Ireland 
Nordic Pharma Ireland 
Tel: +353 (0)1 400 4141 
info@nordicpharma.ie 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
vistor@vistor.is 
Italia 
Nordic Pharma 
Tel: +39 (0)2 241 26710/26711 
info@nordicpharma.it 
Κύπρος 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Latvija 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Slovenija 
NORDIC Pharma, s.r.o. 
Tel.: +420 241 080 770 
info@nordicpharma.cz 
Slovenská republika 
NORDIC Pharma, s.r.o. 
Tel.: +420 241 080 770 
info@nordicpharma.cz 
Suomi/Finland 
Nordic Drugs 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 231 1040 
info@nordicdrugs.fi 
Sverige 
Nordic Drugs AB 
Tel: +46 (0)40 36 66 00 
info@nordicdrugs.se 
United Kingdom (Northern 
Ireland) 
Nordic Pharma Ireland  
Tel: +353 (0)1 400 4141 
info@nordicpharma.ie 
Detailed information this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu . 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Teysuno 20 mg/5.8 mg/15.8 mg hard capsules 
tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
- 
- 
- 
- 
important information for you. 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their symptoms are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor . This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Teysuno is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Teysuno 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Teysuno 
Possible side effects 
How to store Teysuno 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What is Teysuno and what is it used for 
Teysuno contains the active substances tegafur gimeracil and oteracil. 
Teysuno belongs to the fluoropyrimidine class of medicine known as “antineoplastic agents” which 
stop the growth of cancer cells. 
Teysuno is prescribed by doctors for: 
-  The treatment of adults with advanced stomach (gastric) cancer and is taken with cisplatin, 
another anti-cancer medicine. 
-  The treatment of cancer of the large intestines and rectum which has spread (metastasized) 
and where it is not possible to continue with another fluoropyrimidine (anti-cancer treatments 
from the same group of medicines as Teysuno) due to side effects on the skin of hands or feet 
(hand-foot syndrome) or on the heart. In these patients, Teysuno is used alone or in 
combination with other anticancer medicines. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Teysuno 
Do not take Teysuno if you: 
- 
are allergic to tegafur, gimeracil, oteracil or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed 
in section 6). 
are taking other fluoropyrimidine anti-cancer medicine such as fluorouracil and capecitabine, or 
have had severe and unexpected reactions to fluoropyrimidines 
know that you do not have any activity of the enzyme dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) 
(complete DPD deficiency) 
are pregnant or breast-feeding 
have severe blood disorders 
have kidney disease requiring dialysis 
are being treated now or have been treated in the last 4 weeks with brivudine as part of herpes 
zoster (chickenpox or shingles) therapy. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking teysuno if you have: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
blood disorders 
kidney disease 
stomach and/or bowel problems such as pain, diarrhoea, vomiting and dehydration 
eye disorders, such as “dry eye” or increased tearing 
a current or previous infection of the liver with the hepatitis B virus, since your doctor 
may want to monitor you more closely 
a partial deficiency in the activity of the enzyme dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase 
(DPD) 
a family member who has partial or complete deficiency of the enzyme 
dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) 
DPD deficiency: DPD deficiency is a genetic condition that is not usually associated with health 
problems unless you receive certain medicines. If you have DPD deficiency and take Teysuno, you are 
at an increased risk of severe side effects (listed under section 4 Possible side effects). It is 
recommended to test you for DPD deficiency before start of treatment. If you have no activity of the 
enzyme you should not take Teysuno. If you have a reduced enzyme activity (partial deficiency) your 
doctor might prescribe a reduced dose. If you have negative test results for DPD deficiency, severe 
and life-threatening side effects may still occur. 
Children and adolescents 
Teysuno is not recommended for children under 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Teysuno 
Tell your doctor if you are taking , have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
You must not take brivudine (an anti-viral medicine for the treatment of shingles or chickenpox) 
at the same time as Teysuno treatment (including during any rest periods when you are not 
taking any Teysuno capsules). 
If you have taken brivudine you must wait for at least 4 weeks after stopping brivudine before 
starting to take Teysuno. See also section “Do not take Teysuno”. 
Also, you need to be particularly careful if you are taking any of the following: 
- other fluoropyrimidine based medicines such as the anti-fungal flucytosine. Teysuno cannot be 
substituted for other oral fluoropyrimidine medicine. 
- inhibitors of the enzyme CYP2A6 which activates Teysuno such as tranylcypromine and 
methoxsalen 
- folinic acid (often used in chemotherapy with methotrexate) 
- blood-thinning medicines: coumarin-derivative anticoagulants such as warfarin 
- medicines for the treatment of seizures or tremors such as phenytoin 
- medicines that treat gout such as allopurinol 
Teysuno with food and drink 
Teysuno should be taken at least one hour before or one hour after a meal. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Before starting treatment, you must tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are pregnant, if you think you 
are pregnant, or if you intend to become pregnant. You must not take Teysuno if you are pregnant or 
think you might be. 
Men must use contraceptive measures during and up to 3 months after treatment with Teysuno. 
Women must use contraceptive measures during and up to 6 months after treatment with Teysuno. 
If you become pregnant during this time, you must tell your doctor. 
You must not breastfeed if you are taking Teysuno. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Use caution when driving or operating a machine, as Teysuno may make you tired, nauseous or have 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
blurred vision. If you have any doubts talk to your doctor. 
Teysuno contains 
Lactose (one type of sugar). If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some 
sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Teysuno 
Always take Teysuno exactly as your doctor has told you. You should check with your doctor if you 
are not sure. 
Your doctor will tell you what dose you need to take, when to take it and for how long you need to 
take it. Your dose of Teysuno will be determined by your doctor based on your height and weight. 
Your doctor may reduce the dose if you have side effects that are too severe. 
Teysuno capsules should be swallowed with water at least 1 hour before or 1 hour after a meal. 
Teysuno must be taken twice daily (morning and evening). 
For stomach cancer:  
Teysuno capsules are usually taken for 21 days followed by a 7 day rest period (when no capsules are 
taken). This 28 day period is one treatment cycle. The cycles are repeated. 
Teysuno will be given with another anti-cancer medicine called cisplatin. Cisplatin will be stopped 
after 6 treatment cycles. Teysuno can be continued after stopping cisplatin. 
For cancer of the large intestines or rectum that has spread: 
Teysuno capsules are usually taken for 14 days followed by a 7 day rest period (when no capsules are 
taken). This 21 day period is one treatment cycle. The cycles are repeated. 
Teysuno can be given with other anti-cancer medicines (cisplatin, oxaliplatin, irinotecan or 
bevacizumab), which will depend on your treatment. 
If you take more Teysuno than you should 
If you take more capsules than you should, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Teysuno 
Do not take the missed dose at all and do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
Instead, continue your regular dosing schedule and check with your doctor. 
If you stop taking Teysuno 
There are no side effects caused by stopping treatment with Teysuno. In case you are using blood 
thinning or anti-seizure medicines, stopping Teysuno might require that your doctor adjusts the dose 
of your ines. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Teysuno can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. While some 
symptoms are easily identified as side effects by the patients themselves, a blood test is required to 
identify some other symptoms. Your doctor will discuss this with you and will explain the possible 
risks and benefits of the treatment. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10people) include: 
-Diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, constipation 
o 
If you experience diarrhoea more than 4 times a day or in the middle of the night, or if you 
experience sore mouth accompanied by diarrhoea, stop taking Teysuno and contact 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
your doctor immediately. 
If you experience diarrhoea, avoid high-fibre, fatty and spicy foods. 
o 
o  Take plenty of liquids between meals to replace lost fluids and prevent dehydration, low 
o 
o 
blood volume, and imbalance of salts or chemicals in the blood. 
If you experience nausea and vomit a dose of medication, make sure you tell your doctor. 
Do not replace the dose that has been vomited. 
If you vomit more than two times in 24 hours, stop taking Teysuno and contact your 
doctor immediately. 
o  To help manage nausea and vomiting: 
▪  Lie down or take deep breaths when feeling nauseous 
▪  Avoid tight clothing 
-  Low red blood cell count leading to anaemia 
o  You may have symptoms such as cold hands and feet, looking pale, light-headedness, 
o 
fatigue, breathlessness. 
If you experience any of the above-mentioned symptoms, try not to work too hard and 
get ample sleep and rest. 
-  Low white blood cell count leading to increased risk of severe local (e.g.,oral, lung, urine) or 
blood infections 
o  You may have symptoms such as fever, chills, coughing, sore throat. 
o 
If you have fever of 38.5o C or higher, stop taking Teysuno and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
o  To prevent infection, keep away from crowded places, gargle upon returning home, 
and wash your hands before meals and before and after using the bathroom. 
-  Low platelet count leading to an increased chance of bleeding 
o 
If you have bleeding of the skin, mouth (caused by brushing teeth), nose, respiratory 
tract, stomach, gut, etc., stop taking Teysuno and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
o  To prevent bleeding, avoid hard work or strenuous sports so as to prevent injuries and 
bruises. Wear loose clothing to protect the skin. Brush your teeth and blow your nose 
gently. 
-  Loss of apetite (anorexia) can lead to weight loss and dehydration 
o  You may become dehydrated if you do not eat and/or drink enough water. 
o 
If you become dehydrated you may have symptoms such as dry mouth, weakness, dry 
skin, dizziness, cramping 
o  Try to eat frequent small meals. Avoid fatty and strong-smelling food. Even if you do 
o 
not feel hungry, continue to eat as much as you can to maintain good nutrition. 
If you feel tired and have fever together with loss of appetite, contact your doctor 
immediately. 
-  Nerve disorder: you may feel numbness, tingling, pain, abnormal sensation, weak muscle, 
shaking, or movement difficulties. 
-  Weakness and fatigue, which could be side effects caused by other medicines. 
Common side effects (may affect 1 to 10 in 100 people) include: 
-  Nerve: headache, dizziness, sleeplessness, changes in taste 
-  Eye: eye problems, increased or decreased tearing discomfort, vision problems, serious illness 
with blistering of the eyes, wearing away of the surface “skin” of the eye (corneal erosion) 
-  Ear: hearing problems 
-  Blood vessels: high or low blood pressure, blood clots in the leg and lung 
-  Lung and nasal passages: shortness of breath, cough 
-  Gut and mouth: dry mouth, sores in mouth, throat, and oesophagus, hiccups, abdominal 
pain, indigestion, stomach or bowel inflammation, perforation of the stomach, small intestine, 
and large bowel. 
-  Liver: yellow eyes and skin, changes in blood tests which show the way the liver is working, 
-  Skin: hair loss, itchiness, rash or dermatitis, skin reaction, dry skin, hand-and-foot reaction 
(pain, swelling and redness of hands and/or feet), pigmented skin patches 
-  Kidney: decreased urine volume, changes in blood tests which show the way the kidney is 
working, kidney impairment and failure 
74 
 
 
 
 
-  Other: chills, weight decrease, swelling in specific areas and muscle bone pain 
Uncommon side effects (may affect 1 to 10 in 1,000 people) include: 
-  Mental: seeing and hearing some things that are not there, personality change, unable to sit 
still, confusion, feeling of nervousness, depression, sexual dysfunction 
-  Nerve:, voice disorder, inability to speak and understand words, memory problem, unsteady 
gait, balance problems, one sided body weakness, sleepiness, nerve inflammation, distorted 
sense of smell, brain dysfunction, fainting, loss of consciousness, stroke, seizures 
-  Eye: itchy and red eyes, allergic reactions in eyes, drooping upper eyelid 
-  Ear: vertigo, ear clogging, ear discomfort 
-  Heart: irregular or fast heart beat, chest pain, accumulation of excess fluid around the heart, 
heart attack, heart failure 
-  Blood vessels: inflammation of a vein, hot flush 
-  Lung and nasal passages: runny nose, voice disorder, nasal clogging, pharyngeal erythema, 
hay fever 
-  Gut and mouth: fluid in the abdomen, gastroesophageal reflux disease, increased salivary 
secretion, excessive burping and belching, lip inflammation, gastrointestinal disorder, oral 
pain, abnormal contractions of muscles of the oesophagus, blockage in the stomach and 
intestine, stomach ulcer, retroperitoneal fibrosis, teeth that crack or break easily, swallowing 
difficulty, disorder of the salivary gland, haemorrhoids 
-  Skin: loss of skin colour, peeling skin, excessive body hair, nail shrinkage, excessive 
sweating, 
-  General: general condition worsening, weight increase, redness and swelling at the injection 
site, cancer pain and bleeding, multiple organ failure 
-  Changes in blood tests: high blood sugar, high blood lipids, changes in blood clotting time, 
high blood cell counts, low or high protein level 
-  Other: frequent urination, blood in urine, neck pain, back pain, breast pain, muscle tightness 
or cramps, joint swelling, limb discomfort, muscle weakness, arthritis inflammation and pain 
Rare side effects (may affect 1 to 10 in 10,000 people) and very rare side effects (may affect less 
than 1 in 10,000 people) include: 
loss of sense of smell 
sun allergy 
- 
acute liver failure 
- 
pancreas infection 
-  muscle breakdown 
- 
- 
-  widespread blood clotting and bleeding 
- 
- 
recurrence (reactivation) of hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the past (a liver 
infection) 
disease affecting the white matter of the brain 
serious illness with blistering of the skin, mouth and genitals 
If you experience any of the side effects or if you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet, 
please tell your doctor. 
If any of the side effects get serious, stop taking Teysuno and tell your doctor immediately. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store Teysuno 
-  Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Do not use Teysuno after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and blister after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
-  This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
-  Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how 
to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Teysuno contains 
-  The active substances are tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil. 
Each hard capsule contains 20 mg tegafur, 5.8 mg gimeracil, and 15.8 mg oteracil (as 
monopotassium). 
-  The other ingredients are: 
Capsule contents: lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate 
Capsule shells: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), sodium lauryl sulphate, 
talc 
Ink: red iron oxide (E172), yellow iron oxide (E172), Indigo carmine (E132), carnauba wax, 
bleached shellac, glyceryl monooleate 
What Teysuno looks like and contents of the pack 
The hard capsules have a white body and white cap imprinted "TC442" in grey. They are provided in 
blisters containing 14 capsules each. 
Each pack contains 42 capsules or 
84 capsules. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Nordic Group B.V. 
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Nordic Pharma 
Tolweg 15 
3741 LM Baarn 
The Netherlands 
Millmount Healthcare Limited 
Block7, City North 
Business Campus, Stamullen 
Co. Meath, K32 YD60 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Nordic Pharma 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)3 820 5224 
info@nordicpharma.be 
Lietuva 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
AMRING FARMA SRL, 
Tel. : +40 31 620 1204 
RO.OfficeRomania@
nordicpharma.com  
Česká republika 
NORDIC Pharma, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 241 080 770 
info@nordicpharma.cz 
Danmark 
Nordic Drugs 
Tlf: +46 (0)40 36 66 00 
info@nordicdrugs.dk 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Nordic Pharma 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)3 820 5224 
info@nordicpharma.be 
Magyarország NORDIC 
Pharma, s.r.o. Tel: +420 
241 080 770 
info@nordicpharma.cz 
Malta 
Nordic Pharma (France)  
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Deutschland 
Nordic Pharma 
Tel: +49 (0)89 889 690 680 
info@nordicpharma.de 
Nederland 
Nordic Pharma BV 
Tel: +31 (0)85 48 35 871  
info-nl@nordicpharma.com 
Eesti 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Norge 
Nordic Drugs 
Tlf: +46 40-36 66 00 
info@nordicdrugs.no 
Ελλάδα 
Aenorasis S.A. 
Τηλ: +30 210 6136332 
info@aenorasis.gr 
Österreich 
Nordic Pharma 
Tel: +49 (0)89 889 690 680 
info@nordicpharma.de 
España 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
France 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Hrvatska 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Ireland 
Nordic Pharma Ireland 
Tel: +353 (0)1 400 4141 
info@nordicpharma.ie 
Polska 
AMRING FARMA SRL, 
Tel. : +40 31 620 1204 
RO.OfficeRomania@nordicpharma.com  
Portugal 
Nordic Pharma (France)  
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
România 
AMRING FARMA SRL, 
Tel. : +40 31 620 1204 
RO.OfficeRomania@nordicpharma.com  
Slovenija 
NORDIC Pharma, s.r.o. 
Tel.: +420 241 080 770 
info@nordicpharma.cz 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
vistor@vistor.is 
Italia 
Nordic Pharma 
Tel: +39 (0)2 241 26710/26711 
info@nordicpharma.it 
Κύπρος 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
Latvija 
Nordic Pharma (France) 
Tel/Τηλ/Tél/Tel.: +33 (0)1 70 37 28 00 
info@nordicpharma.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Slovenská republika 
NORDIC Pharma, s.r.o. 
Tel.: +420 241 080 770 
info@nordicpharma.cz 
Suomi/Finland 
Nordic Drugs 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 231 1040 
info@nordicdrugs.fi 
Sverige 
Nordic Drugs AB 
Tel: +46 (0)40 36 66 00 
info@nordicdrugs.se 
United Kingdom (Northern 
Ireland) 
Nordic Pharma Ireland  
Tel: +353 (0)1 400 4141 
info@nordicpharma.ie 
Detailed information this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu . 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
