24 September 2015  
EMA/CHMP/692100/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: gimeracil, oteracil potassium, tegafur 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002875/201501 
Period covered by the PSUR: 25 January 2014 – 24 January 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for gimeracil, oteracil potassium, 
tegafur, the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
During the reporting period, no case of exposure to Teysuno during pregnancy or breastfeeding was 
received from EEA countries. Two cases of exposure to Teysuno during pregnancy were received 
from Japan (2 serious). In one case, maternal exposure to Teysuno was associated with 
spontaneous abortion. In the second case, premature delivery was reported shortly after Teysuno 
administration, associated with birth defects and death of the infant. In addition, 2 non-serious 
cases (mother case linked to baby case) were reported.  
Cumulatively seventeen pregnancy cases falling in the category of use during pregnancy (including 
pregnancy of the partner of a male patient) were accumulated from spontaneous reports or other 
sources by the data cut-off date of June 30, 2015. Of the 17 cases, 11 were maternal exposure 
cases and 6 were paternal exposure cases.  
Of these, two patients gave birth to infants with abnormalities (post-haemorrhagic hydrocephalus, 
patent ductus arteriosus, atresia) although one case was considered unrelated to therapy, as the 
exposure occurred three years prior to the pregnancy. Two other patients gave birth to infants who 
experienced events at birth or few days after birth (artificial respiration was required for respiratory 
distress in one case because of very low birth weight, and in other case the infant experienced 
jaundice) of which one was considered not related to therapy. One patient experienced spontaneous 
abortion at 10 weeks. For one case, lack of information precluded a proper assessment. The 
remaining three mother patients delivered healthy babies who did not present any adverse events. 
Six cases of paternal exposure were reported in which a male patient received Teysuno and his 
female partner was found to be pregnant. Of these, 1 case of intra-uterine foetal death was 
reported at 11 weeks. Another female partner underwent artificial abortion. For the remaining 4 
cases, it was impossible to conduct further investigation.  
Taking into account the above mentioned post-marketing data reported in pregnant women, an 
update to the SmPC is considered necessary. In section 4.6 of the SmPC, the sentence “There are 
no data from the use of Teysuno in pregnant women” should be replaced by the following sentence: 
“There have been some case reports of foetal abnormalities”. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding pregnancy, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information were warranted.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for gimeracil, oteracil potassium, tegafur the CHMP is of 
the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product containing gimeracil, oteracil 
potassium, tegafur is favourable subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisations should be varied.  
EMA/CHMP/692100/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
