Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
5-fluorouracil  (5-FU)  is  a  pyrimidine  analogue  which  competitively  inhibits  the  enzyme  thymidylate 
synthase (TS), thereby creating a thymine deficiency and resulting in inhibition of deoxyribonucleic acid 
(DNA) synthesis and cytotoxicity. It also inhibits, to a lesser extent, the formation of ribonucleic acid 
(RNA). These effects are most marked in rapidly growing cells and may lead to cell death. 
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) is the rate limiting step of the catabolism of 5-fluorouracil 
and has a pivotal role in 5-fluorouracil (and related substances) elimination patterns. Treatment of 
patients with DPD deficiency with fluorouracil or related substances can therefore result in severe and 
fatal toxicity. 
Although DPD deficiency is a known risk for the use of these products and genetic testing is 
recommended for DPD deficiency for medicines used in oncological indications, no upfront screening 
for DPD deficiency is currently mandated before treatment initiation.  
In 2014, the French Institute of Cancer (INCA) founded and launched a 3-year hospital clinical 
research program (PHRC) FUSAFE (2015-2017), coordinated by the French Group for Clinical Onco-
Pharmacology (GPCO-Unicancer) and the French Network for pharmacogenetics (RNPGx). The 
objective of FUSAFE was to elaborate collegial recommendations to allow a secured prescription of 
fluoropyrimidines, based on upfront detection of DPD deficiency.  
In 2018, INCA initiated an in-depth review of all available data related to upfront testing to detect a 
DPD deficiency and in December 2018, published a detailed recommendation on the most appropriate 
methods to screen DPD deficiency in view of the current clinical practices in oncology.  
Based on these recommendations, the French medicines agency (ANSM) considered that the product 
information of systemic fluorouracil and its prodrugs (capecitabine and tegafur) does not reflect the 
current evidence on the different screening tests to detect DPD deficiency and on 13 March 2019, 
France triggered a referral under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance 
data, requesting the PRAC to assess the need to take action at EU level regarding the detection of DPD 
deficient patients (especially through genotyping and/or phenotyping) in patients treated with systemic 
fluorouracil and fluorouracil related substances (capecitabine and tegafur) and issue a recommendation 
on whether the relevant marketing authorisations should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked. 
As the risk of systemic exposure of 5-fluorouracil after administration of topical formulation or after 
metabolism of flucytosine could not be completely excluded, the PRAC further agreed during its March 
2019 plenary meeting to extend the scope of the referral procedure to include these products in the 
review. 
The PRAC adopted a recommendation on 12 March 2020 which was then considered by the CHMP, in 
accordance with Article 107k of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation by the PRAC 
Parenteral 5-flurouracil and related substances such as capecitabine and tegafur are systemic 
fluoropyrimidines widely used in oncology as the backbone of a large percentage of current 
chemotherapy regimens across a broad spectrum of cancers.  
5-fluorouracil is also available as topical formulations for the treatment of slightly palpable and/or 
moderately thick hyperkeratotic actinic keratosis (grade I/II) in immunocompetent adult patients, as 
well as to treat warts (5-fluorouracil, 0.5% solution) or the treatment of superficial pre-malignant and 
malignant skin lesions; keratoses including senile, actinic and arsenical forms, keratoacanthoma, 
Bowen's disease and superficial basal-cell carcinoma (5-FU, 5% cream). 
2 
 
Flucytosine (5-FC), another prodrug of 5-fluorouracil, is specifically indicated for severe systemic 
fungal infections with susceptible pathogens. 
DPD is the main metabolising enzyme of 5-fluorouracil (80-85% of catabolic clearance). Its activity is 
subject to a wide variability, resulting in a possible range of enzymatic deficiencies that span from 
partial to complete loss of enzyme activity. DPD deficiency is partly linked to genetic polymorphisms in 
its gene DPYD but may also have other causes. Prevalence of partial and complete DPD deficiency in 
the entire population varies between different sources and has been estimated with approximately 
3%–9% and 0.01%–0.3%, respectively.  
Treatment of patients with DPD deficiency with 5-fluorouracil or related substances can result in severe 
and life-threatening side effects such as severe diarrhea, stomatitis, neutropenia and neurotoxicity. 
Fluoropyrimidine-associated toxicity in DPD deficient patient seem to correlate with DPD activity with 
the strongest, often life-threating or even fatal toxicities observed in patients with complete DPD 
deficiency. PRAC therefore is of the view that the benefit-risk balance of parenteral 5-fluorouracil and 
related substances capecitabine, tegafur and flucytosine is not favourable in patients with complete 
DPD deficiency and therefore these medicinal products should be contra-indicated in patients with 
known complete DPD deficiency. 
The clinical situation in case of partial loss of DPD activity is less clear. Partial DPD deficiency is also 
associated with an increased risk for severe toxicity, but in the absence of suitable alternative 
treatment, patients may be treated with caution. A dose reduction may be considered.  
To evaluate methods to identify patients with partial or complete DPD deficiency prior to treatment and 
mitigate the risk of severe or life-threating toxicities, the PRAC has considered data submitted during 
the referral by the marketing authorisation holders of the products concerned in relation to the risk of 
toxicity associated with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency and to the different 
screening methods currently available to identify patients with DPD deficiency, as well as an analysis of 
EudraVigilance data by EMA and third parties’ interventions. The PRAC also took into account the 
outcome of a consultation with the Oncology scientific advisory group and the EMA pharmacogenomic 
working party. 
Identification of completely and partially DPD deficient patients can guide the decision as to who should 
not be treated with fluoropyrimidines and who should be treated with a reduced dose, due to their 
increased risk for severe or life-threatening toxicities. Genotyping and phenotyping are to date 
considered to be the best available methods for identification of DPD deficient patients but both 
methods have some limitations.  
Genotyping can only identify DPD deficiencies associated with the tested DPYD variants, although it 
appears that other rare or unknown DPYD variants, or non-genetic factors, may be also involved in 
decreased DPD activity. Moreover, DPYD genotype and DPD activity only correlate moderately. A 
number of patients with heterozygous DPYD genotype have been shown to exhibit normal DPD activity, 
and thus might be diagnosed false positive. However, among the available DPD screening methods 
genotyping is the easiest to perform, most robust and best implemented technique. 
DPD phenotyping may overcome these challenges by direct measurement of the endogenous DPD 
substrate uracil (U). However, there are uncertainties on uracil cut-off levels defining complete and 
partial DPD deficiency, as these have not been validated prospectively. In addition, solid data on both 
safety and efficacy of adaptive dosing following a test results of DPD phenotyping is missing.  
In the absence of data comparing both methods, PRAC proposed that both be included in the SmPC as 
possible approaches to identify DPD deficient patients.  
Pre-treatment testing for rare mutations of the DPYD gene can identify patients with DPD deficiency. 
3 
The four DPYD variants c.1905+1G>A [also known as DPYD*2A], c.1679T>G [DPYD*13], c.2846A>T 
and c.1236G>A/HapB3 can cause complete absence or reduction of DPD enzymatic activity. Other rare 
variants may also be associated with an increased risk of severe or life-threatening toxicity. Patients 
with certain heterozygous DPYD variants (including c.1905+1G>A, c.1679T>G, c.2846A>T and 
c.1236G>A/HapB3 variants) have increased risk of severe toxicity when treated with fluoropyrimidines. 
Certain homozygous and compound heterozygous mutations in the DPYD gene locus (e.g. 
combinations of the four variants with at least one allele of c.1905+1G>A or c.1679T>G) are known to 
cause complete or near complete absence of DPD enzymatic activity. 
The frequency of the heterozygous c.1905+1G>A genotype in the DPYD gene in Caucasian patients is 
around 1%, 1.1% for c.2846A>T, 2.6-6.3% for c.1236G>A/HapB3 variants and 0.07 to 0.1% for 
c.1679T>G. Data on the frequency of the four DPYD variants in other populations than Caucasian is 
limited. At the present, the four DPYD variants (c.1905+1G>A, c.1679T>G, c.2846A>T and 
c.1236G>A/HapB3) are considered virtually absent in populations of African (-American) or Asian 
origin. 
Among the several phenotyping methods investigated so far, measurement of blood uracil levels has 
been identified as the most clinically useful. For phenotypic characterisation of DPD deficiency, the 
measurement of pre-therapeutic levels of the endogenous DPD substrate uracil (U) in blood is 
recommended. Elevated pre-treatment uracil concentrations are associated with an increased risk of 
toxicity. Despite uncertainties on uracil thresholds defining complete and partial DPD deficiency, a 
blood uracil level ≥ 16 ng/ml and < 150 ng/ml should be considered indicative of partial DPD deficiency 
and associated with an increased risk for fluoropyrimidine toxicity. A blood uracil level ≥ 150 ng/ml 
should be considered indicative of complete DPD deficiency and associated with a risk for life-
threatening or fatal fluoropyrimidine toxicity. In order to better characterize the cut-off levels for DPD 
deficiency and related optimal dose adjustment, more research is still needed.  
In addition to pre-emptive DPD testing, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of blood 5-fluorouracil 
levels is a recommended strategy to optimize the 5-fluorouracil dosing. For patients treated with 5-
fluorouracil (i.v.), TDM may therefore constitute a valuable complementary method to the upfront DPD 
deficiency detection methods such as phenotyping or genotyping and overcome the limited knowledge 
on safety and efficacy of a reduced dose. Combining upfront phenotyping or genotyping with TDM can 
improve the benefit-risk balance of 5-fluorouracil-based therapy. Therefore, information about TDM is 
included in the SmPC of 5-fluorouracil (i.v.) containing products. TDM is not considered useful for 
patients treated with capecitabine as systemic exposure to capecitabine and capecitabine metabolites 
in plasma appear to be poorly predictive of safety and efficacy. 
The new recommendations for pre-treatment DPD testing qualify as an important change of current 
practice in relation to the medicinal products and should be communicated to relevant healthcare 
professionals by DHPC. 
The optimal treatment of patients with partial DPD deficiency as well as the best testing methodology 
to identify patients at increased risk for severe toxicity remains uncertain and should be further 
explored. MAHs and other relevant stakeholders, including academia, are encouraged to perform 
further research focussing on current gaps and uncertainties in knowledge, including but not exclusive 
to, the optimal test method to identify patients at risk of severe DPD-associated toxicity, the optimal 
dose for patients tested positive for partial DPD deficiency, clinical outcome in terms of efficacy (OS, 
PFS) and safety (frequency of ≥ grade 3 toxicity) in patients with partial DPD deficiency, the robustness 
of the proposed upper (>150 ng/ml) and lower (≤16 ng/ml) cut-off values for uracilemia to 
discriminate patients with normal DPD activity, partial DPD deficiency and complete DPD deficiency, 
and the implementation of the recommendation to screen patients for DPD deficiency and to use TDM 
in the different EU MS. 
4 
Unlike fluoropyrimidine exposure in cancer, systemic availability of 5-fluorouracil is usually very low 
after topical application. In the 5% fluorouracil formulation treated patients, with measurable plasma 
concentrations of 5-fluorouracil and sufficient data points for calculation of pharmacokinetic 
parameters, the AUC ranged from 14.507 to 37.518 ng-h/ml, which is 100-1,000 times below 
recommended AUC for fluoropyrimidine-based therapy in cancer. Hence, benefit-risk balance of topical 
5-fluorouracil formulations in all authorised indications remains unchanged and pre-treatment DPD 
testing is not required for patients treated with topical 5-fluorouracil. However, PRAC considered that 
information should be provided in the product information of these products to reflect the low risk for 
patients with DPD deficiency and potential higher risk in case of systemic exposure.  
Fluorouracil is a metabolite of flucytosine. DPD is a key enzyme involved in the metabolism and 
elimination of fluorouracil and although only a small amount of flucytosine is metabolised to 
fluorouracil the risk of fluorouracil induced severe toxicities due to DPD deficiency cannot be completely 
ruled out. On this basis, PRAC considered that flucytosine should not be used in patients with known 
complete DPD deficiency. In addition, determination of DPD activity may be considered where drug 
toxicity is confirmed or suspected. In the event of suspected drug toxicity, consideration should be 
given to stopping treatment. PRAC recommended this information to be communicated to relevant 
healthcare professionals by DHPC. Since fungal infections should be treated rapidly, a delay in initiation 
of flucytosine is not appropriate and therefore pre-treatment DPD testing is not required.  
Grounds for PRAC recommendation  
Whereas, 
•  The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data for medicinal products containing 5-fluorouracil and related 
substances. 
• 
PRAC considered the totality of the data submitted during this review in relation to the risk of 
toxicity associated with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency and to the different 
screening methods currently available to identify patients with DPD deficiency. These data 
included the responses submitted by the marketing authorisation holders in writing, an analysis 
of EudraVigilance data by EMA, third parties’ interventions, as well as the outcome of 
consultation with the Oncology scientific advisory group and the EMA pharmacogenomic 
working party. 
• 
• 
• 
PRAC confirmed the current knowledge that the use of 5-fluorouracil for systemic use and 
related substances in patients with DPD deficiency is associated with an increased risk of 
toxicity. 
The PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of 5-fluorouracil (i.v.) and related substances 
capecitabine, tegafur and flucytosine is negative in patients with complete DPD deficiency and 
confirmed that these medicinal products should be contra-indicated in patients with known 
complete DPD deficiency. PRAC also concluded that patients with partial DPD deficiency should 
be treated with an adjusted starting dose.  
To minimise the risk of increased toxicity, PRAC recommended that DPD deficiency testing is 
conducted before initiation of treatment. PRAC considered genotyping and phenotyping by 
evaluation of blood uracil levels tests as being currently the most suitable methods to identify 
patients with DPD deficiency. Although both methods have limitations, PRAC agreed that the 
product information of 5-fluorouracil (i.v.), capecitabine and tegafur containing products should 
5 
 
provide information on these two testing methodologies together with a guidance to consider 
applicable clinical guidelines.  
For patients requiring treatment with flucytosine, PRAC considered that pre-treatment DPD 
testing would not be compatible with the need for immediate treatment required for systemic 
yeast and fungal infections and therefore agreed that pre-treatment testing for DPD deficiency 
is not required.  
Taking into account the low systemic availability of 5-fluorouracil after topical application, PRAC 
concluded that the benefit-risk balance of topical 5-fluorouracil formulations remains 
unchanged in all authorised indications but that information on the risk of toxicity in patients 
with DPD deficiency in case of systemic exposure should be introduced in the product 
information. 
PRAC also agreed on direct healthcare professional communications (DHPC), together with the 
timelines for their distribution. 
• 
• 
• 
In view of the above, the Committee considers that the benefit-risk balance of 5-fluorouracil and 
related substances capecitabine, tegafur and flucytosine containing products remains favourable 
subject to the agreed amendments to the product information.  
The Committee, as a consequence, recommends the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisations for medicinal products containing 5-fluorouracil or related substances capecitabine, 
flucytosine and tegafur. 
CHMP opinion 
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall conclusions and 
grounds for recommendation. 
6 
 
