EMA/58328/2022  
EMEA/H/C/000823 
Thalidomide BMS1 
thalidomide 
What is Thalidomide BMS and what is it used for? 
Thalidomide BMS is used to treat multiple myeloma (a cancer of the bone marrow) in combination with 
the cancer medicines melphalan and prednisone in patients who have not been treated for multiple 
myeloma before. It is used in patients aged 65 years or over, and in younger patients if they cannot be 
treated with high-dose chemotherapy. 
Thalidomide BMS must be prescribed and dispensed according to a special programme put in place to 
prevent the exposure of unborn children to the medicine. 
It contains the active substance thalidomide.  
How is Thalidomide BMS used? 
Thalidomide BMS can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and 
monitored under the supervision of a doctor skilled in using medicines that modulate the immune 
system or medicines to treat cancer. The doctor must also understand the risks of thalidomide and how 
its use must be monitored. 
Thalidomide BMS is available as capsules (50 mg). The recommended dose is 200 mg (4 capsules) a 
day, taken at the same time, preferably at bedtime. In patients over 75 years of age a starting dose of 
100 mg (2 capsules) a day is recommended. Thalidomide BMS can be used for a maximum of 12 
treatment cycles, with each cycle lasting 6 weeks. The doctor may delay, reduce or stop doses if the 
patient gets certain side effects, including blood clots, nerve damage, rash, low heart rate, fainting or 
sleepiness.  
For more information about using Thalidomide BMS, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Thalidomide BMS work? 
The active substance in Thalidomide BMS, thalidomide, is thought to work by blocking the development 
of cancer cells, and by stimulating some of the specialised cells of the immune system (the body’s 
1
 Initially known as Thalidomide Pharmion and subsequently as Thalidomide Celgene. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Un on   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
natural defences) to attack the cancer cells. This can help to slow down the progression of multiple 
myeloma. 
What benefits of Thalidomide BMS have been shown in studies? 
Thalidomide BMS increased the time patients lived in one main study involving 447 patients with 
multiple myeloma. The study included patients over 65 years of age, as well as younger patients who 
could not be treated with high-dose chemotherapy. The study compared the effect of melphalan and 
prednisone, with or without Thalidomide BMS. Patients receiving melphalan and prednisone lived for an 
average of 33.2 months from the start of the study, compared with 51.6 months when the treatment 
also included Thalidomide BMS. 
The company also presented the results of a study looking at the combination of Thalidomide BMS and 
dexamethasone as ‘induction’ treatment for multiple myeloma for use before high-dose chemotherapy. 
However, it withdrew this application during the initial assessment of the medicine. 
What are the risks associated with Thalidomide BMS? 
Most patients taking thalidomide get side effects. The most common side effects with Thalidomide BMS 
used together with melphalan and prednisone (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are neutropenia (low 
levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), leucopenia (low white blood cell counts), anaemia 
(low red blood cell counts), lymphopenia (low levels of lymphocytes, another type of white blood cell), 
thrombocytopenia (low levels of platelets in the blood), peripheral neuropathy (nerve damage causing 
tingling, pain and numbness in the hands and feet), tremor (shaking), dizziness, paraesthesia (unusual 
sensations like pins and needles), dysaesthesia (reduced sense of touch), sleepiness, constipation and 
peripheral oedema (swelling, usually in the legs). For the full list of side effects reported with 
Thalidomide BMS, see the package leaflet. 
Thalidomide is a powerful human ‘teratogen’, meaning that it has harmful effect on the unborn child, 
causing severe and life-threatening birth defects. The strict conditions put in place to prevent 
pregnancy and the exposure of unborn children to thalidomide must be met by all men and women 
taking the medicine. 
Thalidomide BMS must never be used by the following groups: 
•  women who are pregnant; 
•  women who could become pregnant, unless they take all of the necessary steps to ensure that 
they are not pregnant before treatment and that they do not become pregnant during or soon after 
treatment; 
• 
patients who are unable to follow or to comply with the requirement to use contraceptives. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Thalidomide BMS authorised in the EU? 
Thalidomide BMS, in combination with melphalan and prednisone, has been shown to prolong the life 
of patients with multiple myeloma. The European Medicines Agency concluded that, provided that very 
strict measures are put in place to avoid exposure of unborn children to thalidomide, Thalidomide 
BMS’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Thalidomide BMS0F  
EMA/58328/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Thalidomide BMS? 
The company that markets Thalidomide BMS will set up a pregnancy prevention programme in each 
Member State. It will provide educational kits for healthcare workers and brochures for patients, 
detailing the steps that need to be taken for the medicine to be used safely. It will also supply cards 
for patients to ensure that all appropriate safety measures are taken by each patient. Each Member 
State will also ensure that educational materials and patient cards are provided as necessary to 
prescribers and patients. 
The company will also collect information on whether the medicine is used outside its approved 
indication. The boxes containing Thalidomide BMS capsules will include a warning that thalidomide is 
harmful to the unborn child. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Thalidomide BMS have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Thalidomide BMS are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Thalidomide BMS are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Thalidomide BMS 
Thalidomide Pharmion received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 April 2008. 
The name of the medicine was changed to Thalidomide Celgene on 22 October 2008 and to 
Thalidomide BMS on 4 November 2021. 
Further information on Thalidomide BMS can be found on the Agency’s 
website:ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/thalidomide-bms. .  
This overview was last updated in 01-2022.  
Thalidomide BMS0F  
EMA/58328/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
