29 May 2019 
EMA/461960/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): thalidomide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002919/201810 
Period covered by the PSUR: 10 October – 09 October 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for thalidomide, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
A cumulative search of DRESS cases with thalidomide from spontaneous sources and clinical trials 
retrieved 8 cases among which 4 cases were assessed as probable or possible drug reaction with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) as per Regiscar criteria. All 4 cases involved other possible 
contributing factors preventing the establishment of a definite direct causal relationship between 
thalidomide and DRESS, but a link with thalidomide could also not be excluded. Despite the small number 
of cases of DRESS, considering that this adverse reaction is a known risk listed in the EU SmPC of the 
structural analogues lenalidomide and pomalidomide and taking into consideration that other severe 
cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) are already listed in the thalidomide EU SmPC (SJS and TEN), the 
PRAC concluded that a causal relationship between thalidomide and DRESS cannot be excluded. Therefore, 
considering the seriousness of this risk, the PRAC considers that the risk should be reflected in the PI of 
thalidomide. In addition, the addition of interruption or discontinuation recommendations regarding the 
risk of severe skin reactions in general, in line with the one already approved for the structural analogues 
lenalidomide and pomalidomide, is supported.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for thalidomide the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing thalidomide is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/461960/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
