26 May 2016 
EMA/342411/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation 
Active substance: thalidomide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002919/201510 
Period covered by the PSUR: 10 Oct 2014 - 09 Oct 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for thalidomide, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The PRAC considered that based on evidence from case reports of viral reactivation, some serious, 
following treatment with thalidomide, particularly in patients previously infected with the herpes 
zoster or hepatitis B viruses (HBV), that there is a confirmed causal association between thalidomide 
and  varizella-zoster virus and hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation. The PRAC recommends that 
Hepatitis B virus status should be established before initiating treatment with thalidomide. Previously 
infected patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of viral reactivation, including 
active HBV infection, throughout therapy. Sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC are updated to reflect 
this information. The package leaflet is updated accordingly. Furthermore, the RMP should be 
updated to add viral reactivation of HBV in the severe infections described in important identified 
risks. 
The PRAC considered that based on evidence from cases of pulmonary hypertension, some fatal, 
reported following treatment with thalidomide that there is a confirmed causal association between 
thalidomide and pulmonary hypertension. The PRAC recommends that patients should be evaluated 
for signs and symptoms of underlying cardiopulmonary disease prior to initiating and during 
thalidomide therapy. Therefore, information on pulmonary hypertension is included in sections 4.4 
and 4.8 of the thalidomide product information. The package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
Moreover, subsequent RMP update, with addition of pulmonary hypertension in the important 
identified risks is required. 
Furthermore, a direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) should be distributed, in 
agreement with the communication plan, to inform healthcare professionals about the risks of 
pulmonary hypertension and viral reactivation associated with treatment with thalidomide. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information of medicinal products containing thalidomide were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for thalidomide the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product containing thalidomide is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied. 
EMA/342411/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
