ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Thalidomide Lipomed 100 mg coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each coated tablet contains 100 mg of thalidomide. 
Excipients with known effect 
Lactose monohydrate (100 mg per coated tablet), sucrose (81 mg per coated tablet) 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Coated tablet  
White, round, domed sugar-coated tablets with diameter of approximately 10.2 mm and thickness of 
approximately 5.5 mm. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Thalidomide Lipomed in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated as first line 
treatment of patients with untreated multiple myeloma, aged ≥ 65 years or ineligible for high dose 
chemotherapy.  
Thalidomide Lipomed is prescribed and dispensed in accordance with the Thalidomide Lipomed 
Pregnancy Prevention Programme (see section 4.4).  
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment must be initiated and monitored under the supervision of physicians with expertise in 
managing immunomodulatory or chemotherapeutic agents and a full understanding of the risks of 
thalidomide therapy and monitoring requirements (see section 4.4). 
Posology 
The recommended dose of thalidomide is 200 mg orally per day.  
Each coated tablet of Thalidomide Lipomed contains 100 mg of thalidomide, whereas other available 
thalidomide-containing medicinal products usually contain 50 mg of thalidomide. This must be taken 
into account, and the patient must be instructed accordingly. 
A maximum number of 12 cycles of 6 weeks (42 days) should be used.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Starting doses for thalidomide in combination with melphalan and prednisone 
Age 
(years) 
ANC* 
(/µl) 
≤ 75 
≥ 1,500 
AND 
≤ 75 
< 1,500 but 
≥ 1,000 
OR 
> 75 
≥ 1,500 
AND 
> 75 
< 1,500 but 
≥ 1,000 
OR 
Platelet 
count 
(/µl) 
≥ 100,000 
< 100,000 
but 
≥ 50,000 
≥ 100,000 
< 100,000 
but 
≥ 50,000 
Thalidomidea,b  Melphalanc,d,e  Prednisonef 
200 mg daily 
200 mg daily 
100 mg daily 
100 mg daily 
0.25 mg/kg 
daily 
0.125 mg/kg 
daily 
0.20 mg/kg 
daily 
0.10 mg/kg 
daily 
2 mg/kg 
daily 
2 mg/kg 
daily 
2 mg/kg 
daily 
2 mg/kg 
daily 
* ANC: Absolute Neutrophil Count 
a Thalidomide dosed once daily at bedtime on Days 1 to 42 of each 42-day cycle. 
b Due to the sedative effect associated with thalidomide, administration at bedtime is known to generally improve tolerability. 
c Melphalan dosed once daily on Day 1 to 4 of each 42-day cycle. 
d Melphalan dosing: reduce by 50% for moderate (creatinine clearance: ≥ 30 but < 50 ml/min) or severe (creatinine clearance: 
< 30 ml/min) renal insufficiency. 
e Maximum daily melphalan dose: 24 mg (subjects ≤ 75 years old) or 20 mg (subjects > 75 years old). 
f Prednisone dosed once daily on Days 1 to 4 of each 42-day cycle. 
Patients should be monitored for: thromboembolic events, peripheral neuropathy, severe skin 
reactions, bradycardia, syncope, somnolence, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia (see sections 4.4 and 
4.8). Dose delay, reduction or discontinuation, dependent upon the NCI CTC (National Cancer 
Institute Common Toxicity Criteria) grade, may be necessary.  
If less than 12 hours have elapsed since missing a dose, the patient can take the dose. If more than 
12 hours have elapsed since missing a dose at the normal time, the patient should not take the dose, 
but take the next dose at the normal time on the following day.  
Thromboembolic events 
Thromboprophylaxis should be administered for at least the first 5 months of treatment especially in 
patients with additional thrombotic risk factors. Prophylactic antithrombotic medicinal products, such 
as low molecular weight heparins or warfarin, should be recommended. The decision to take 
antithrombotic prophylactic measures should be made after careful assessment of an individual 
patient’s underlying risk factors (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8).  
If the patient experiences any thromboembolic events, treatment must be discontinued and standard 
anticoagulation therapy started. Once the patient has been stabilised on the anticoagulation treatment 
and any complications of the thromboembolic event have been managed, the thalidomide treatment 
may be restarted at the original dose dependent upon a benefit-risk assessment. The patient should 
continue anticoagulation therapy during the course of thalidomide treatment.  
Neutropenia 
White blood cell count and differential should be monitored on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
oncology guidelines, especially in patients who may be more prone to neutropenia. Dose delay, 
reduction or discontinuation, dependent upon the NCI CTC grade, may be necessary.  
Thrombocytopenia 
Platelet counts should be monitored on an ongoing basis, in accordance with oncology guidelines. 
Dose delay, reduction or discontinuation, dependent upon the NCI CTC grade, may be necessary.  
Peripheral neuropathy 
Dose modifications due to peripheral neuropathy are described in Table 2. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Recommended dose modifications for thalidomide-related neuropathy in first line 
treatment of multiple myeloma 
Severity of neuropathy 
Grade 1 (paraesthesia, weakness and/or loss of 
reflexes) with no loss of function 
Grade 2 (interfering with function but not with 
activities of daily living) 
Grade 3 (interfering with activities of daily 
living) 
Grade 4 (neuropathy which is disabling) 
Modification of dose and regimen 
Continue to monitor the patient with clinical 
examination. Consider reducing dose if 
symptoms worsen. However, dose reduction is 
not necessarily followed by improvement of 
symptoms. 
Reduce dose or interrupt treatment and continue 
to monitor the patient with clinical and 
neurological examination. If no improvement or 
continued worsening of the neuropathy, 
discontinue treatment. If the neuropathy resolves 
to Grade 1 or better, the treatment may be 
restarted, if the benefit/risk is favourable. 
Discontinue treatment. 
Discontinue treatment. 
Thalidomide Lipomed is only available as 100 mg coated tablets. Thus, it is not possible to administer 
Thalidomide Lipomed to patients that require less than a full 100 mg dose. If an alternate dose is 
required, other thalidomide products offering such an option should be used. 
Allergic reactions and severe skin reactions 
Thalidomide interruption or discontinuation should be considered for Grade 2-3 skin rash. 
Thalidomide must be discontinued for angioedema, anaphylactic reaction, Grade 4 rash, exfoliative or 
bullous rash, or if Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) or drug reaction 
with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) is suspected and should not be resumed following 
discontinuation for these reactions. 
Elderly population 
No specific dose adjustments are recommended for the elderly ≤ 75 years of age. For patients 
> 75 years of age, the thalidomide recommended starting dose is 100 mg per day. The initial dose of 
melphalan is reduced for elderly > 75 years of age considering baseline bone marrow reserve and renal 
function. The melphalan recommended starting dose is 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg daily according to bone 
marrow reserve along with a further 50% dose reduction for moderate (creatinine clearance: ≥ 30 but 
< 50 ml/minute) or severe (creatinine clearance: < 30 ml/minute) renal insufficiency. The maximum 
daily melphalan dose is 20 mg in patients > 75 years of age (see Table 1).  
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment  
Thalidomide has not formally been studied in patients with impaired renal or hepatic function. No 
specific dose recommendations for these patient populations are available. Patients with severe organ 
impairment should be carefully monitored for adverse reactions. 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Thalidomide Lipomed in the paediatric population in the indication of 
multiple myeloma. 
Method of administration  
Thalidomide Lipomed should be taken as a single dose at bedtime, to reduce the impact of 
somnolence. The coated tablets should not be crushed. If powder from thalidomide makes contact with 
the skin, the skin should be washed immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. If thalidomide 
makes contact with the mucous membranes, they should be thoroughly flushed with water (see section 
6.6). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to thalidomide or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
• 
•  Women who are pregnant (see section 4.6). 
•  Women of childbearing potential unless all the conditions of the Pregnancy Prevention 
• 
Programme are met (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). 
Male patients unable to follow or comply with the required contraceptive measures (see section 
4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Teratogenic effects 
Thalidomide is a powerful human teratogen, inducing a high frequency of severe and life-threatening 
birth defects. Thalidomide must never be used by women who are pregnant or by women who could 
become pregnant unless all the conditions of the Pregnancy Prevention Programme are met. The 
conditions of the Pregnancy Prevention Programme must be fulfilled for all male and female patients.  
Criteria for women of non-childbearing potential  
A female patient or a female partner of a male patient is considered to have childbearing potential 
unless she meets at least one of the following criteria: 
• 
Age ≥ 50 years and naturally amenorrhoeic for ≥ 1 year (Amenorrhoea following cancer therapy 
or during breast-feeding does not rule out childbearing potential). 
Premature ovarian failure confirmed by a specialist gynaecologist. 
Previous bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, or hysterectomy. 
XY genotype, Turner’s syndrome, uterine agenesis. 
• 
• 
• 
Counselling 
For women of childbearing potential, thalidomide is contraindicated unless all of the following 
conditions are met: 
• 
• 
She understands the teratogenic risk to the unborn child. 
She understands the need for effective contraception, without interruption, at least 4 weeks 
before starting treatment, throughout the entire duration of treatment, and at least 4 weeks after 
the end of treatment. 
Even if a woman of childbearing potential has amenorrhea, she must follow all the advice on 
effective contraception. 
She should be capable of complying with effective contraceptive measures. 
She is informed and understands the potential consequences of pregnancy and the need to 
rapidly consult her doctor if there is a risk of pregnancy. 
She understands the need to commence the treatment as soon as thalidomide is dispensed 
following a negative pregnancy test. 
She understands the need and accepts to undergo pregnancy testing every 4 weeks except in 
case of confirmed tubal sterilisation. 
She acknowledges that she understands the hazards and necessary precautions associated with 
the use of thalidomide. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
As thalidomide is found in semen, as a precaution all male patients taking thalidomide must meet the 
following conditions: 
• 
He understands the teratogenic risk if engaged in sexual activity with a pregnant woman or a 
woman of childbearing potential. 
He understands the need for the use of a condom if engaged in sexual activity with a pregnant 
woman or a woman of childbearing potential not using effective contraception (even if the man 
has had a vasectomy), during treatment, during dose interruption and for at least 7 days 
following discontinuation of treatment. 
• 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
He understands that if his female partner becomes pregnant whilst he is taking thalidomide or 
7 days after he has stopped taking thalidomide, he should inform his treating physician 
immediately and that it is recommended to refer the female partner to a physician specialised or 
experienced in teratology for evaluation and advice. 
The prescriber must ensure that: 
• 
The patient complies with the conditions of the Pregnancy Prevention Programme including 
confirmation that she has an adequate level of understanding. 
The patient has acknowledged the aforementioned conditions. 
• 
Contraception 
Women of childbearing potential must use one effective method of contraception for at least 4 weeks 
before start of treatment, during treatment, and until at least 4 weeks after thalidomide treatment and 
even in case of dose interruption unless the patient commits to absolute and continuous abstinence 
confirmed on a monthly basis. If not established on effective contraception, the patient must be 
referred preferably to an appropriately trained healthcare professional for contraceptive advice in order 
that contraception can be initiated. 
The following can be considered to be examples of effective methods of contraception:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Implant 
Levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (IUS) 
Medroxyprogesterone acetate depot 
Tubal sterilisation 
Sexual intercourse with a vasectomised male partner only; vasectomy must be confirmed by two 
negative semen analyses 
Ovulation inhibitory progesterone-only pills (i.e. desogestrel) 
• 
Because of the increased risk of venous thromboembolism in patients with multiple myeloma (MM), 
combined oral contraceptive pills are not recommended (see section 4.5). If a patient is currently using 
combined oral contraception, she should switch to one of the effective methods listed above. The risk 
of venous thromboembolism continues for 4-6 weeks after discontinuing combined oral contraception. 
Pregnancy testing 
Medically supervised pregnancy tests with a minimum sensitivity of 25 mIU/ml must be performed for 
women of childbearing potential as outlined below. This requirement includes women of childbearing 
potential who practice absolute and continuous abstinence.  
Prior to starting treatment 
A medically supervised pregnancy test should be performed during the consultation, when thalidomide 
is prescribed or in the 3 days prior to the visit to the prescriber once the patient had been using 
effective contraception for at least 4 weeks. The test should ensure the patient is not pregnant when 
she starts treatment with thalidomide.  
Follow-up and end of treatment 
A medically supervised pregnancy test should be repeated every 4 weeks, including 4 weeks after the 
end of treatment, except in the case of confirmed tubal sterilisation. These pregnancy tests should be 
performed on the day of the prescribing visit or in the 3 days prior to the visit to the prescriber. 
Men 
As thalidomide is found in semen, as a precaution all male patients must use condoms during 
treatment, during dose interruption and for at least 7 days following discontinuation of treatment if 
their partner is pregnant or is of childbearing potential not using effective contraception. Male patients 
should not donate semen or sperm during treatment (including during dose interruptions) and for at 
least 7 days following discontinuation of thalidomide.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prescribing and dispensing restrictions 
For women of childbearing potential, prescriptions of thalidomide can be for a maximum duration of 
treatment of 4 weeks according to the approved indication dosing regimens (see section 4.2) and 
continuation of treatment requires a new prescription. Ideally, pregnancy testing, issuing a prescription 
and dispensing should occur on the same day. Dispensing of thalidomide should occur within a 
maximum of 7 days of the prescription.  
For all other patients, prescriptions of thalidomide can be for a maximum duration of treatment of 
12 weeks and continuation of treatment requires a new prescription.  
Additional precautions 
Patients should be instructed never to give this medicinal product to another person and to return any 
unused coated tablets to their pharmacist at the end of treatment.  
Patients should not donate blood during treatment (including during dose interruptions) and for at least 
7 days following discontinuation of thalidomide. 
Healthcare professionals and caregivers should wear disposable gloves when handling the blisters or 
coated tablets. Women who are pregnant or suspect they may be pregnant should not handle the 
blisters or coated tablets (see section 6.6). 
Educational materials 
In order to assist patients in avoiding foetal exposure to thalidomide, the Marketing Authorisation 
Holder will provide educational material to healthcare professionals to reinforce the warnings about 
the teratogenicity of thalidomide, to provide advice on contraception before treatment is started and to 
provide guidance on the need for pregnancy testing.  
The prescriber must inform male and female patients about the expected teratogenic risk and the strict 
pregnancy prevention measures as specified in the Pregnancy Prevention Programme and provide 
patients with appropriate educational brochure for patients, patient card and/or equivalent tool in 
accordance to the national implemented patient card system. A national controlled distribution system 
has been implemented in collaboration with each National Competent Authority. The controlled 
distribution system includes the use of a patient card and/or equivalent tool for prescribing and/or 
dispensing controls, and the collecting of detailed data relating to the indication in order to monitor 
closely the off-label use within the national territory. Ideally, pregnancy testing, issuing a prescription 
and dispensing should occur on the same day. Dispensing of thalidomide to women of childbearing 
potential should occur within 7 days of the prescription and following a medically supervised negative 
pregnancy test result. 
Amenorrhea 
The use of thalidomide could be associated with menstrual disorders including amenorrhea. 
Amenorrhea during thalidomide therapy should be assumed to result from pregnancy, until it is 
medically confirmed that the patient is not pregnant. A clear mechanism by which thalidomide can 
induce amenorrhea is not elucidated. The reported events occurred in young (premenopausal) women 
(median age 36 years) receiving thalidomide for non-multiple myeloma indications, had an onset 
within 6 months of initiating treatment and reversed upon discontinuation of thalidomide. In 
documented case reports with hormone evaluation, the event of amenorrhoea was associated with 
decreased estradiol levels and elevated FSH/LH levels. When provided, antiovary antibodies were 
negative and prolactin level was within the normal range. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiovascular disorders 
Myocardial infarction 
Myocardial infarction (MI) has been reported in patients receiving thalidomide, particularly in those 
with known risk factors. Patients with known risk factors for MI, including prior thrombosis, should 
be closely monitored and action should be taken to try to minimise all modifiable risk factors (e.g. 
smoking, hypertension, and hyperlipidaemia). 
Venous and arterial thromboembolic events 
Patients treated with thalidomide have an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (such as deep 
vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) and arterial thromboembolism (such as myocardial 
infarction and cerebrovascular event) (see section 4.8). The risk appears to be greatest during the first 
5 months of therapy. Thromboprophylaxis and dosing/anticoagulation therapy recommendations are 
provided in section 4.2. 
Previous history of thromboembolic events or concomitant administration of erythropoietic agents or 
other agents such as hormone replacement therapy may also increase thromboembolic risk in these 
patients. Therefore, these agents should be used with caution in multiple myeloma patients receiving 
thalidomide with prednisone and melphalan. Particularly, a haemoglobin concentration above 12 g/dl 
should lead to discontinuation of erythropoietic agents. Action should be taken to try to minimise all 
modifiable risk factors (e.g. smoking, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia).  
Patients and physicians are advised to be observant for the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism. 
Patients should be instructed to seek medical care if they develop symptoms such as shortness of 
breath, chest pain, arm or leg swelling. 
Thyroid disorders 
Cases of hypothyroidism have been reported. Optimal control of co-morbid conditions influencing 
thyroid function is recommended before start of treatment. Baseline and ongoing monitoring of 
thyroid function is recommended. 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Peripheral neuropathy is a very common, potentially severe, adverse reaction to treatment with 
thalidomide that may result in irreversible damage (see section 4.8). In a phase 3 study, the median 
time to first neuropathy event was 42.3 weeks.  
If the patient experiences peripheral neuropathy, follow the dose and schedule modification instruction 
provided in section 4.2.  
Careful monitoring of patients for symptoms of neuropathy is recommended. Symptoms include 
paraesthesia, dysaesthesia, discomfort, abnormal co-ordination or weakness.  
It is recommended that clinical and neurological examinations are performed in patients prior to 
starting thalidomide therapy, and that routine monitoring is carried out regularly during treatment.  
Medicinal products known to be associated with neuropathy should be used with caution in patients 
receiving thalidomide (see section 4.5).  
Thalidomide may also potentially aggravate existing neuropathy and should therefore not be used in 
patients with clinical signs or symptoms of peripheral neuropathy unless the clinical benefits outweigh 
the risks. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Syncope, bradycardia and atrioventricular block 
Patients should be monitored for syncope, bradycardia and atrioventricular block; dose reduction or 
discontinuation may be required.  
Pulmonary hypertension 
Cases of pulmonary hypertension, some fatal, have been reported in patients treated with thalidomide. 
Patients should be evaluated for signs and symptoms of underlying cardiopulmonary disease prior to 
initiating and during thalidomide therapy. 
Haematological disorders 
Neutropenia 
The incidence of neutropenia grade 3 or 4 reported as adverse reactions was higher in multiple 
myeloma patients receiving MPT (Melphalan, Prednisone, Thalidomide) than in those receiving MP 
(Melphalan, Prednisone): 42.7% versus 29.5% respectively (study IFM 99-06). Adverse reactions 
from post-marketing experience such as febrile neutropenia and pancytopenia were reported with 
thalidomide. Patients should be monitored and dose delay, reduction or discontinuation may be 
required (see section 4.2). 
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia, including grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions, has been reported in multiple myeloma 
patients receiving MPT. Patients should be monitored and dose delay, reduction or discontinuation 
may be required (see section 4.2). Patients and physicians are advised to be observant for signs and 
symptoms of bleeding including petechiae, epistaxis and gastrointestinal haemorrhage, especially in 
case of concomitant medicinal product prone to inducing bleeding (see sections 4.5 and 4.8).  
Hepatic disorders 
Hepatic disorders, mainly abnormal liver test results, were reported. No specific pattern was identified 
between hepatocellular and cholestatic abnormalities, with some cases having a mixed presentation. 
The majority of the reactions occurred within the first 2 months of therapy and resolved spontaneously 
without treatment after thalidomide discontinuation. Patients should be monitored for liver function, 
particularly in case of pre-existing liver disorder or concomitant use of medicinal product susceptible 
to induce liver dysfunction (see section 4.8).  
Allergic reactions and severe skin reactions 
Cases of allergic reactions including angioedema, anaphylactic reaction and severe cutaneous 
reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and drug 
reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) have been reported with the use of 
thalidomide. Patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms of these reactions by their 
prescribers and should be told to seek medical attention immediately if they develop these symptoms. 
Thalidomide interruption or discontinuation should be considered for Grade 2-3 skin rash. 
Thalidomide must be discontinued for angioedema, anaphylactic reaction, Grade 4 rash, exfoliative or 
bullous rash, or if SJS, TEN or DRESS is suspected, and should not be resumed following 
discontinuation for these reactions (see sections 4.2 and 4.8).  
Somnolence 
It is very common that thalidomide causes somnolence. Patients should be instructed to avoid 
situations where somnolence may be a problem and to seek medical advice before taking other 
medicinal products known to cause somnolence. Patients should be monitored and dose reduction may 
be required.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients should be advised as to the possible impairment of mental and/or physical abilities required 
for the performance of hazardous tasks (see section 4.7).  
Tumour lysis syndrome 
The patients at risk of tumour lysis syndrome are those with high tumour burden prior to treatment. 
These patients should be monitored closely and appropriate precautions should be taken. 
Infections 
Patients should be monitored for severe infections including sepsis and septic shock.  
Cases of viral reactivation have been reported in patients receiving thalidomide, including serious 
cases of herpes zoster or hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation.  
Some of the cases of herpes zoster reactivation resulted in disseminated herpes zoster, requiring a 
temporary hold of the treatment with thalidomide and adequate antiviral treatment.  
Some of the cases of HBV reactivation progressed to acute hepatic failure and resulted in 
discontinuation of thalidomide. Hepatitis B virus status should be established before initiating 
treatment with thalidomide. For patients who test positive for HBV infection, consultation with a 
physician with expertise in the treatment of hepatitis B is recommended.  
Previously infected patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of viral reactivation, 
including active HBV infection, throughout therapy. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, including fatal cases, have been reported with 
thalidomide. PML was reported several months to several years after starting the treatment with 
thalidomide. Cases have generally been reported in patients taking concomitant dexamethasone or 
prior treatment with other immunosuppressive chemotherapy. Physicians should monitor patients at 
regular intervals and should consider PML in the differential diagnosis in patients with new or 
worsening neurological symptoms, cognitive or behavioural signs or symptoms. Patients should also 
be advised to inform their partner or caregivers about their treatment, since they may notice symptoms 
that the patient is not aware of. 
The evaluation for PML should be based on neurological examination, magnetic resonance imaging of 
the brain, and cerebrospinal fluid analysis for JC virus (JCV) DNA by polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) or a brain biopsy with testing for JCV. A negative JCV PCR does not exclude PML. Additional 
follow-up and evaluation may be warranted if no alternative diagnosis can be established.  
If PML is suspected, further dosing must be suspended until PML has been excluded. If PML is 
confirmed, thalidomide must be permanently discontinued. 
Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) 
A statistically significant increase of AML and MDS was observed in one clinical study in patients 
with previously untreated MM receiving the combination of melphalan, prednisone, and thalidomide 
(MPT). The risk increased over time and was about 2% after two years and about 4% after three years. 
An increased incidence of second primary malignancies (SPM) has also been observed in patients with 
newly diagnosed MM receiving lenalidomide. Among invasive SPMs, cases of MDS/AML were 
observed in patients receiving lenalidomide in combination with melphalan or immediately following 
high dose melphalan and autologous stem cell transplantation.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The benefit achieved with thalidomide and the risk of AML and MDS must be taken into account 
before initiating treatment with thalidomide in combination with melphalan and prednisone. 
Physicians should carefully evaluate patients before and during treatment using standard cancer 
screening and institute treatment as indicated. 
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment 
Studies conducted in healthy subjects and patients with multiple myeloma suggest that thalidomide is 
not influenced to any significant extent by renal or hepatic function (see section 5.2). However, this 
has not formally been studied in patients with impaired renal or hepatic function; therefore, patients 
with severe renal or hepatic impairment should be carefully monitored for any adverse events. 
Excipients with known effects 
Lactose 
This medicinal product contains lactose monohydrate. Patients with rare hereditary problems of 
galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this 
medicinal product. 
Sucrose 
This medicinal product contains sucrose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of fructose 
intolerance, glucose-galactose malabsorption or sucrase-isomaltase insufficiency should not take this 
medicinal product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Thalidomide is a poor substrate for cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and therefore clinically important 
interactions with medicinal products that are inhibitors and/or inducers of this enzyme system are 
unlikely. Non-enzymatic hydrolysis of thalidomide, being the primary clearance mechanism, suggests 
that the potential for drug-drug interactions with thalidomide is low.  
Increase of sedative effects of other medicinal products 
Thalidomide has sedative properties, thus may enhance the sedation induced by anxiolytics, hypnotics, 
antipsychotics, H1 antihistamines, opiate derivatives, barbiturates and alcohol. Caution should be used 
when thalidomide is given in combination with medicinal products that cause drowsiness.  
Bradycardic effect 
Due to thalidomide’s potential to induce bradycardia, caution should be exercised with medicinal 
products having the same pharmacodynamic effect such as active substances known to induce torsade 
de pointes, beta blockers or anticholinesterase agents.  
Medicinal products known to cause peripheral neuropathy 
Medicinal products known to be associated with peripheral neuropathy (e.g. vincristine and 
bortezomib) should be used with caution in patients receiving thalidomide. 
Hormonal contraceptives 
Thalidomide does not interact with hormonal contraceptives. In 10 healthy women, the 
pharmacokinetic profiles of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol following administration of a single 
dose containing 1.0 mg of norethindrone acetate and 0.75 mg of ethinyl estradiol were studied. The 
results were similar with and without co-administration of thalidomide 200 mg/day to steady-state 
levels. However, combined hormonal contraceptives are not recommended due to the increased risk of 
venous thromboembolic disease.  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warfarin 
Multiple dose administration of 200 mg thalidomide q.d. for 4 days had no effect on the international 
normalized ratio (INR) in healthy volunteers. However, due to the increased risk of thrombosis in 
cancer patients, and a potentially accelerated metabolism of warfarin with corticosteroids, close 
monitoring of INR values is advised during thalidomide-prednisone combination treatment as well as 
during the first weeks after ending these treatments.  
Digoxin 
Thalidomide does not interact with digoxin. In 18 healthy male volunteers, multiple dose 
administration of 200 mg thalidomide had no apparent effect on the single dose pharmacokinetics of 
digoxin. In addition, single dose administration of 0.5 mg digoxin had no apparent effect on 
thalidomide pharmacokinetics. It is not known whether the effect will be different in multiple 
myeloma patients. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential / Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential must use one effective method of contraception for at least 4 weeks 
before start of treatment, during treatment including during dose interruptions, and until at least 
4 weeks after thalidomide treatment (see section 4.4). If pregnancy occurs in a woman treated with 
thalidomide, treatment must be stopped immediately and the patient should be referred to a physician 
specialised or experienced in teratology for evaluation and advice. 
As thalidomide is found in semen, as a precaution all male patients must use condoms during 
treatment, during dose interruption and for at least 7 days following discontinuation of treatment when 
having sexual intercourse with a pregnant woman or with a woman of childbearing potential who is 
not using effective contraception. This applies even if the man has had a vasectomy.  
If pregnancy occurs in a partner of a male patient taking thalidomide, the female partner should be 
referred to a physician specialised or experienced in teratology for evaluation and advice. 
Pregnancy 
Thalidomide is contraindicated during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential unless all the 
conditions of the Pregnancy Prevention Programme are met (see section 4.3)  
Thalidomide is a powerful human teratogen, inducing a high frequency (about 30%) of severe and life-
threatening birth defects such as: ectromelia (amelia, phocomelia, hemimelia) of the upper and/or 
lower extremities, microtia with abnormality of the external acoustic meatus (blind or absent), middle 
and internal ear lesions (less frequent), ocular lesions (anophthalmia, microphthalmia), congenital 
heart disease, renal abnormalities. Other less frequent abnormalities have also been described.  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether thalidomide is excreted in human breast milk. Animal studies have shown 
excretion of thalidomide in breast milk. Therefore, breast-feeding should be discontinued during 
treatment with thalidomide.  
Fertility 
A study in rabbits demonstrated no effect on fertility indices in males or females although testicular 
degeneration was observed in males. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Thalidomide Lipomed as per the recommended posology has minor or moderate influence on the 
ability to drive and use machines.  
Thalidomide may cause fatigue (very common), dizziness (very common), somnolence (very 
common) and blurred vision (common) (see section 4.8). Patients should be instructed not to drive 
cars, use machines or perform hazardous tasks while being treated with thalidomide if they feel tired, 
dizzy, sleepy or have blurred vision. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Most patients taking thalidomide can be expected to experience adverse reactions. The most 
commonly observed adverse reactions associated with the use of thalidomide in combination with 
melphalan and prednisone are: neutropenia, leukopenia, constipation, somnolence, paraesthesia, 
peripheral neuropathy, anaemia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, dizziness, dysaesthesia, tremor and 
peripheral oedema. 
In addition to the adverse reactions outlined above, thalidomide in combination with dexamethasone in 
other clinical studies led to the very common adverse reaction of fatigue; common adverse reactions of 
transient ischaemic event, syncope, vertigo, hypotension, mood altered, anxiety, blurred vision, nausea 
and dyspepsia; and uncommon adverse reactions of cerebrovascular accident, diverticular perforation, 
peritonitis, orthostatic hypotension and bronchitis.  
The most clinically important adverse reactions associated with the use of thalidomide in combination 
with melphalan and prednisone or dexamethasone include: deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary 
embolism, peripheral neuropathy, severe skin reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic 
epidermal necrolysis and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms, syncope, 
bradycardia, and dizziness (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 3 contains only the adverse reactions for which a causal relationship with medicinal product 
treatment could reasonably be established observed in the pivotal study and from post-marketing 
experience. Frequencies given are based on the observations during a pivotal comparative clinical 
study investigating the effect of thalidomide in combination with melphalan and prednisone in 
previously untreated multiple myeloma patients.  
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon 
(≥ 1/1000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1000); very rare (< 1/10,000) and not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in 
order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 3: Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) reported in pivotal clinical study with thalidomide in 
combination with melphalan and prednisone and from post marketing use 
System Organ Class 
Infections and infestations 
Frequency 
Common 
Not known 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (including 
cysts and polyps) 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
13 
Adverse reaction 
Pneumonia 
Severe infections (e.g. fatal 
sepsis including septic shock)a, 
viral infections, including 
herpes zoster and hepatitis B 
virus reactivationa 
Acute myeloid leukaemiab,c 
Myelodysplastic syndromeb,c 
Tumour lysis syndromea 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Immune system disorders 
Not known 
Endocrine disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Not known 
Common 
Very common 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Not known 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
Not known 
Renal and urinary disorders  Common 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
Not known 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
Adverse reaction 
Neutropenia, leukopenia, 
anaemia, lymphopenia, 
thrombocytopenia 
Febrile neutropeniaa, 
pancytopeniaa 
Allergic reactions 
(hypersensitivity, angioedema, 
anaphylactic reaction, 
urticaria)a 
Hypothyroidisma 
Confusional state, depression 
Peripheral neuropathyb, tremor, 
dizziness, paraesthesia, 
dysaesthesia, somnolence 
Convulsionsa, abnormal 
coordination 
Posterior reversible 
encephalopathy syndrome 
(PRES)a,b, worsening of 
Parkinson’s disease symptomsa 
Hearing impaired or deafnessa 
Cardiac failure, bradycardia 
Myocardial infarctiona, atrial 
fibrillationa, atrioventricular 
blocka 
Deep vein thrombosisb 
Pulmonary embolismb, 
interstitial lung disease, 
bronchopneumopathy, dyspnea 
Pulmonary hypertensiona 
Constipation 
Vomiting, dry mouth 
Intestinal obstructiona 
Gastrointestinal perforationa, 
pancreatitisa, gastrointestinal 
haemorrhagea 
Hepatic disordersa 
Toxic skin eruption, rash, dry 
skin 
Stevens-Johnson syndromea,b, 
toxic epidermal necrolysisa,b, 
drug reaction with eosinophilia 
and systemic symptomsa,b, 
leukocytoclastic vasculitisa 
Renal failurea 
Sexual dysfunctiona, menstrual 
disorders including 
amenorrheaa 
Peripheral oedema 
Pyrexia, asthenia, malaise 
a Identified from post-marketing data. 
b See section 4.8 “Description of selected adverse reactions”. 
c Acute myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndrome were reported in one clinical study in patients with previously 
untreated multiple myeloma receiving the combination of melphalan, prednisone and thalidomide (MPT). 
14 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Adverse reactions for haematological disorders are provided compared to the comparator arm, as the 
comparator has a significant effect on these disorders (Table 4).  
Table 4: Comparison of haematological disorders for the melphalan, prednisone (MP) and 
melphalan, prednisone, thalidomide (MPT) combinations in study IFM 99-06 (see section 5.1) 
Neutropenia 
Leukopenia 
Anaemia 
Lymphopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
* WHO criteria 
n (% of patients) 
MP (n=193) 
MPT (n=124) 
Grades 3 and 4* 
57 (29.5) 
32 (16.6) 
28 (14.5) 
14 (7.3) 
19 (9.8) 
53 (42.7) 
32 (25.8) 
17 (13.7) 
15 (12.1) 
14 (11.3) 
Additional adverse reactions from post-marketing experience with thalidomide and not seen in the 
pivotal study include febrile neutropenia and pancytopenia.  
Teratogenicity 
The risk of intra-uterine death or severe birth defects, primarily phocomelia, is extremely high. 
Thalidomide must not be used at any time during pregnancy (see sections 4.4 and 4.6).  
Venous and arterial thromboembolic events 
An increased risk of venous thromboembolism (such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary 
embolism) and arterial thromboembolism (such as myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular event) 
has been reported in patients treated with thalidomide (see section 4.4). 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Peripheral neuropathy is a very common, potentially severe, adverse reaction of treatment with 
thalidomide that may result in irreversible damage (see section 4.4). Peripheral neuropathy generally 
occurs following chronic use over a period of months. However, reports following relatively short-
term use also exist. Incidence of neuropathy events leading to discontinuation, dose reduction or 
interruption increases with cumulative dose and duration of therapy. Symptoms may occur some time 
after thalidomide treatment has been stopped and may resolve slowly or not at all.  
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) / Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy 
syndrome (RPLS) 
Cases of PRES/RPLS have been reported. Signs and symptoms included visual disturbance, headache, 
seizures and altered mental status, with or without associated hypertension. A diagnosis of 
PRES/RPLS requires confirmation by brain imaging. The majority of the reported cases had 
recognized risk factors for PRES/RPLS, including hypertension, renal impairment and concomitant 
use of high dose corticosteroids and/or chemotherapy.  
Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) 
AML and MDS were reported in one clinical study in patients with previously untreated multiple 
myeloma receiving the combination of melphalan, prednisone, and thalidomide (see section 4.4). 
Allergic reactions and severe skin reactions 
Cases of allergic reactions including angioedema, anaphylactic reaction and severe cutaneous 
reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and drug 
reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) have been reported with the use of 
thalidomide therapy. If angioedema, anaphylactic reaction, SJS, TEN or DRESS is suspected, use of 
thalidomide should not be resumed (see section 4.2 and 4.4). 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly population 
The adverse reaction profile reported in patients > 75 years of age treated with thalidomide 100 mg 
once daily was similar to the adverse reaction profile observed in patients ≤ 75 years of age treated 
with thalidomide 200 mg once daily (see Table 3). However, patients with age > 75 years are 
potentially at risk for a higher frequency of serious adverse reactions.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Eighteen cases of overdose have been reported in the literature concerning doses up to 14.4 grams. In 
thirteen of these cases, patients took thalidomide alone; amounts ranged from 350 mg to 4000 mg. 
These patients either exhibited no symptoms or exhibited symptoms of drowsiness, irritability, 
“sickness” and/or headache. In one 2-year-old child who took 700 mg, there was an abnormal plantar 
response in addition to drowsiness and irritability. No fatalities have been reported and all overdose 
patients recovered without sequelae. There is no specific antidote for a thalidomide overdose. In the 
event of an overdose, the patient’s vital signs should be monitored and appropriate supportive care 
given to maintain blood pressure and respiratory status. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunosuppressants, other immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AX02 
Thalidomide has a chiral centre and is used clinically as a racemate of (+)-(R)- and (-)-(S)-
thalidomide. The spectrum of activity of thalidomide is not fully characterised.  
Mechanism of action 
Thalidomide shows immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory and potential anti-neoplastic activities. 
Data from in vitro studies and clinical trials suggest that the immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory 
and anti-neoplastic effects of thalidomide may be related to suppression of excessive tumour necrosis 
factor-alpha (TNF-α) production, down-modulation of selected cell surface adhesion molecules 
involved in leukocyte migration and anti-angiogenic activity. Thalidomide is also a non-barbiturate 
centrally active hypnotic sedative. It has no antibacterial effects.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Results from IFM 99-06, a Phase 3, randomised, open label, parallel group, multicentre study have 
demonstrated a survival advantage when thalidomide is used in combination with melphalan and 
prednisone for 12 cycles of 6 weeks in the treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients. 
In this study the age range of patients was 65-75 years, with 41% (183/447) of patients 70 years old or 
older. The median dose of thalidomide was 217 mg and > 40% of patients received 9 cycles. 
Melphalan and prednisone were dosed at 0.25 mg/kg/day and 2 mg/kg/day respectively on Days 1 to 4 
of each 6 weeks cycle. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further to the per protocol analysis, an update was conducted for the IFM 99-06 study providing an 
additional 15 months follow-up data. The median overall survival (OS) was 51.6 ± 4.5 and 
33.2 ± 3.2 months in the MPT and MP groups, respectively (97.5% CI 0.42 to 0.84). This 18-month 
difference was statistically significant with a hazard ratio of reduction of risk of death in the MPT arm 
of 0.59, 97.5% confidence interval of 0.42-0.84 and p-value of < 0.001 (see Figure 1). 
Figure 1: Overall survival according to treatment 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with the 
reference medicinal product containing thalidomide in all subsets of the paediatric population in 
multiple myeloma (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Absorption of thalidomide is slow after oral administration. The maximum plasma concentrations are 
reached 1-5 hours after administration. Co-administration of food delayed absorption but did not alter 
the overall extent of absorption.  
Distribution 
The plasma protein binding of the (+)-(R) and (-)-(S) enantiomers was found to be 55% and 65% 
respectively. Thalidomide is present in the semen of male patients at levels similar to plasma 
concentrations (see section 4.4). The distribution of thalidomide is not influenced by age, gender, renal 
function and blood chemistry variables, to any significant level. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Thalidomide is metabolised almost exclusively by non-enzymatic hydrolysis. In plasma, unchanged 
thalidomide represents 80% of the circulatory components. Unchanged thalidomide was a minor 
component (< 3% of the dose) in urine. In addition to thalidomide, hydrolytic products N-(o-
carboxybenzoyl) glutarimide and phthaloyl isoglutamine formed via non-enzymatic processes are also 
present in plasma and in majority in urine. Oxidative metabolism does not contribute significantly to 
the overall metabolism of thalidomide. There is minimal cytochrome P450 catalysed hepatic 
metabolism of thalidomide. There are in vitro data indicating that prednisone may give rise to enzyme 
induction which could reduce the systemic exposure of concomitantly used medicinal products. The in 
vivo relevance of these findings is unknown.  
Elimination 
The mean elimination half-life of thalidomide in plasma following single oral doses between 50 mg 
and 400 mg was 5.5 to 7.3 hours. Following a single oral dose of 400 mg of radio-labelled 
thalidomide, the total mean recovery was 93.6% of the administered dose by Day 8. The majority of 
the radioactive dose was excreted within 48 hours following dose administration. The major route of 
excretion was via the urine (> 90%) while faecal excretion was minor. 
There is a linear relationship between body weight and estimated thalidomide clearance; in multiple 
myeloma patients with body weight from 47-133 kg, thalidomide clearance ranged from 
approximately 6-12 l/h, representing an increase in thalidomide clearance of 0.621 l/h per 10 kg body 
weight increase. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Total systemic exposure (AUC) is proportional to dose at single-dose conditions. No time dependency 
of the pharmacokinetics has been observed. 
Hepatic and renal impairment 
The extent of thalidomide metabolism by the liver cytochrome P450 system is minimal and intact 
thalidomide is not excreted by the kidney. Measures of renal function (creatinine clearance) and liver 
function (blood chemistry) indicate minimal effect of kidney and liver function on the 
pharmacokinetics of thalidomide. As such the metabolism of thalidomide is not expected to be 
affected by hepatic or renal dysfunction. Data from patients with end-stage renal disease suggest no 
impact of kidney function on thalidomide pharmacokinetics. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the male dog, after one year of dosing, reversible bile plugs in canaliculi were observed at 
exposures greater than 1.9-fold the human exposure. 
Decreased platelet counts were noted in the mouse and rat studies. The latter appears to be related to 
thalidomide and occurred at exposures greater than 2.4-fold the human exposure. This decrease did not 
result in clinical signs. 
In a one-year dog study, enlarged and/or blue discoloration of mammary glands and prolonged estrus 
were observed in females at exposures equal to 1.8 or greater than 3.6-fold the human exposure, 
respectively. The relevance to humans is unknown. 
The effect of thalidomide on thyroid function was assessed in both rats and dogs. No effects were 
observed in dogs; however, in rats, there was an apparent dose-dependent decrease in total and free T4 
that was more consistent in the female. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No mutagenic or genotoxic effect has been revealed when thalidomide was assayed in a standard 
battery of genotoxicity tests. No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed at exposures approximately 
15, 13 and 39 times the estimated clinical AUC at the recommended starting dose in mice, male rats 
and female rats respectively. 
Animal studies have demonstrated differences in species susceptibility to the teratogenic effects of 
thalidomide. In humans, thalidomide is a proven teratogen. 
A study in rabbits demonstrated no effect on fertility indices in males or females although testicular 
degeneration was observed in males.  
A peri- and postnatal toxicity study performed in rabbits with thalidomide administered at doses up to 
500 mg/kg/day resulted in abortions, increased stillbirths and decreased pup viability during lactation. 
Pups from mothers treated with thalidomide had increased abortions, reduced body weight gain, 
alterations in learning and memory, decreased fertility, and reduced pregnancy index. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet cores 
Lactose monohydrate 
Copovidone (E 1208) 
Talc (E 553b) 
Magnesium stearate (E 470b) 
Microcrystalline cellulose [E 460(i)] 
Coating 
Heavy kaolin (E 559) 
Sucrose 
Acacia (E 414) 
Calcium carbonate (E 170) 
Talc (E 553b) 
Titanium dioxide (E 171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
5 years.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC/aluminium blister containing 10 coated tablets. 
Pack size: 30 coated tablets (three blisters). 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The coated tablets should not be crushed. If powder from thalidomide makes contact with the skin, the 
skin should be washed immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. If thalidomide makes contact 
with the mucous membranes, they should be thoroughly flushed with water.  
Healthcare professionals and caregivers should wear disposable gloves when handling the blisters or 
coated tablets. Gloves should then be removed carefully to prevent skin exposure, placed in a sealable 
plastic polyethylene bag and disposed of in accordance with local requirements. Hands should then be 
washed thoroughly with soap and water. Women who are pregnant or suspect they may be pregnant 
should not handle the blisters or coated tablets (see section 4.4). 
All unused coated tablets should be returned to the pharmacist at the end of treatment. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Lipomed GmbH 
Hegenheimer Strasse 2 
79576 Weil am Rhein 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1676/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Lipomed GmbH 
Hegenheimer Strasse 2 
79576 Weil am Rhein 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Thalidomide Lipomed Pregnancy Prevention Programme (PPP) with controlled distribution 
system 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) will implement a Pregnancy Prevention Programme (PPP) 
in each Member State where Thalidomide Lipomed is marketed. Details of the PPP will be agreed 
with the national competent authority (NCA) in each Member State and put in place prior to the 
launch of the medicinal product. The PPP will include implementation of a controlled distribution 
system in each concerned country, in agreement with the respective NCA, to ensure that all physicians 
and pharmacists who intend to prescribe or dispense Thalidomide Lipomed have access to the 
educational materials and are aware of the teratogenic properties and other important risks of 
thalidomide as well as the corresponding risk minimisation measures. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Educational Materials 
The MAH will agree the contents of the Educational Healthcare Professional’s Kit with the NCA in 
each Member State prior to launch of the medicinal product. In agreement with the respective NCAs, 
the Educational Healthcare Professional’s Kit is proposed to contain the following educational 
materials and report forms: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
Educational healthcare professional booklet with patient assessment algorithm and pregnancy 
testing and contraception requirements 
Treatment initiation forms and/or equivalent tool for women of childbearing potential, women 
of non-childbearing potential, and male patients 
Educational brochures for patients (female and male) 
Patient cards and/or equivalent tools 
Summary of product characteristics, package leaflet and labelling 
Pregnancy reporting materials and information 
Adverse reaction reporting forms. 
The proposed key elements of each of these materials are described below.  
Prior to approval by the NCA and launch of the medicinal product in countries where the reference 
product is not approved or marketed, the MAH will ensure that the educational materials for patients 
are provided to and reviewed by the national patients’ organisations or if such an organisation does not 
exist or cannot be involved, by a relevant patients’ group. Patients involved will be preferably naïve to 
the history of thalidomide. Results of the user testing will be provided to the NCA and final materials 
validated at a national level. 
The MAH will notify the EMA and the appropriate national patients and victims’ representatives of 
the proposed launch date before launch in each Member State. 
Proposed key elements of the Educational Healthcare Professional’s Kit 
1. 
Educational healthcare professional booklet 
•  History of thalidomide, background on Thalidomide Lipomed and its licensed indication 
•  Posology 
•  Maximum duration of treatment prescribed according to the approved indication dosing 
regimens 
o  4 weeks of treatment for women with childbearing potential 
o  12 weeks of treatment for men and for women without childbearing potential 
•  Teratogenicity and the need to avoid foetal exposure 
•  Guidance on handling the blisters or coated tablets of Thalidomide Lipomed for healthcare 
professionals and caregivers 
•  Obligations of healthcare professionals who intend to prescribe or dispense Thalidomide 
Lipomed including 
o  The need to provide comprehensive advice and counselling to patients 
o  That patients should be capable of complying with the requirements for the safe use of 
thalidomide 
o  Need to provide patients with the appropriate patient educational material 
o  Report any pregnancy or adverse events to the MAH and the local health authority (if 
applicable to a Member State) using the provided forms 
•  Safety advice relevant to all patients 
o  Guidance to prevent medication errors (potential confusion with the reference medicinal 
product) 
o  Description and management of ischaemic heart disease (including myocardial infarction) 
o  Disposal of unwanted medicinal product 
o  Not to donate blood during treatment (including during dose interruptions) and for at least 
7 days following discontinuation of thalidomide 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Algorithm for Pregnancy Prevention Programme implementation 
o  This shall assist with patient categorisation and determination of required pregnancy 
prevention and testing measures 
•  Pregnancy Prevention Programme information 
o  Definition of women of childbearing potential and actions the prescriber should take if 
unsure 
o  Information on what is effective contraception 
o  Safety advice for women of childbearing potential 
  Need to avoid foetal exposure 
  Pregnancy prevention requirement, definition and need for adequate contraceptive 
methods 
  That if she needs to change or stop using her method of contraception she should 
inform: 
-  The physician prescribing her contraception that she is on thalidomide 
-  The physician prescribing thalidomide that she has stopped or changed her method 
of contraception 
  Pregnancy testing requirements 
-  Advice on suitable tests 
-  Frequency (before commencing, monthly during treatment and after finishing 
treatment) 
  Need to stop thalidomide immediately upon suspicion of pregnancy 
  Need to tell treating doctor immediately upon suspicion of pregnancy 
o  Safety advice for men 
  The need to avoid foetal exposure 
  That thalidomide is found in semen and the need to use condoms if sexual partner is 
pregnant or is a woman of childbearing potential not using effective contraception 
  That if his partner becomes pregnant he should inform his treating doctor immediately 
and always use a condom during intercourse 
  That he should not donate semen during treatment (including during dose 
interruptions) and for at least 7 days following discontinuation of thalidomide 
•  Pregnancy reporting requirements 
o  Instruction to stop thalidomide immediately upon suspicion of pregnancy, if female 
patient 
o  Need to refer patient to physician specialised or experienced in dealing with teratology 
for advice and evaluation 
o  Complete pregnancy reporting form as provided in the “Educational Healthcare 
Professional’s Kit” 
o  Local contact details for reporting of any suspected pregnancy 
2. 
Treatment initiation forms and/or equivalent tool 
•  There will be 3 types of treatment initiation forms and/or equivalent tool: 
o  Women of childbearing potential 
o  Women of non-childbearing potential 
o  Male patients 
•  All treatment initiation forms and/or equivalent tool will contain the following elements: 
o  Teratogenicity warning 
o  Patients receive appropriate counselling prior to treatment initiation 
o  Date of counselling 
o  Affirmation of patient understanding regarding the risk of thalidomide and the PPP 
measures 
o  Patient details, signature and date 
o  Prescriber name, signature and date 
24 
 
o  Aim of this document, i.e. as stated in the PPP: “The aim of the treatment initiation form 
is to protect patients and any possible foetuses by ensuring that patients are fully 
informed of and understand the risk of teratogenicity and other adverse reactions 
associated with the use of thalidomide. It is not a contract and does not absolve anybody 
from his/her responsibilities with regard to the safe use of the product and prevention of 
foetal exposure.” 
•  Treatment initiation forms and/or equivalent tool for women of childbearing potential will 
also include: 
o  Confirmation that the physician has discussed the following: 
  The need to avoid foetal exposure 
  That if she is pregnant or plans to be, she must not take thalidomide 
  The need for effective contraception, without interruption, at least 4 weeks before 
starting treatment, throughout the entire duration of treatment, and at least 4 weeks 
after the end of treatment 
  That if she needs to change or stop using her method of contraception she should 
inform: 
-  The physician prescribing her contraception that she is on thalidomide 
-  The physician prescribing thalidomide that she has stopped or changed her method 
of contraception 
  The need for pregnancy tests, i.e. before treatment, at least every 4 weeks during 
treatment and after treatment 
  The need to stop thalidomide immediately upon suspicion of pregnancy 
  The need to contact her doctor immediately upon suspicion of pregnancy 
  That she should not share the treatment with any other person 
  That she should not donate blood during treatment (including during dose 
interruptions) and for at least 7 days following discontinuation of thalidomide 
  That she should return any unused product to the pharmacist at the end of treatment 
•  Treatment initiation forms and/or equivalent tool for women with no childbearing potential 
will also include: 
o  Confirmation that the physician has discussed the following: 
  That she should not share the treatment with any other person 
  That she should not donate blood during treatment (including during dose 
interruptions) and for at least 7 days following discontinuation of thalidomide 
  That she should return any unused product to the pharmacist at the end of treatment 
•  Treatment initiation forms and/or equivalent tool for male patients will also include: 
o  Confirmation that the physician has discussed the following: 
  The need to avoid foetal exposure 
  That thalidomide is found in semen and the need to use condoms if sexual partner is 
pregnant or is a woman with childbearing potential not on effective contraception 
  That if his partner becomes pregnant he should inform his treating doctor immediately 
and always use a condom 
  That he should not donate blood or semen during treatment (including during dose 
interruptions) and for at least 7 days following discontinuation of thalidomide 
  That he should not share the treatment with any other person 
  That he should return any unused product to the pharmacist at the end of treatment 
3. 
Educational brochures for patients: 
•  There will be 3 types of educational brochures for patients: 
o  Brochure for women of childbearing potential 
o  Brochure for women who are not of childbearing potential 
o  Brochure for male patients 
•  All educational brochures for patients will contain the following information: 
o  That thalidomide is teratogenic 
o  That thalidomide may cause ischaemic heart disease (including myocardial infarction) 
o  Description of the patient card and its use in the individual Member State 
o  Guidance on handling Thalidomide Lipomed for patients, caregivers and family members 
25 
 
o  National or other applicable specific arrangements for a prescription for thalidomide to be 
dispensed 
o  That thalidomide must not be given to any other person 
o  That the patient should not donate blood 
o  That the patients should tell their doctor about any adverse events 
o  That any unused product should be returned to the pharmacist at the end of the treatment 
•  In addition to the above information contained in all educational brochures, the educational 
brochures for women of childbearing potential will also include the following information: 
o  The need to avoid foetal exposure 
o  The need for effective contraception 
o  That if she needs to change or stop using her method of contraception she should inform: 
  The physician prescribing her contraception that she is on thalidomide 
  The physician prescribing thalidomide that she has stopped or changed her method of 
contraception 
o  The need for pregnancy tests, i.e. before treatment, at least every 4 weeks during 
treatment and at least 4 weeks after treatment 
o  The need to stop thalidomide immediately upon suspicion of pregnancy 
o  The need to contact her doctor immediately upon suspicion of pregnancy 
•  In addition to the above information contained in all educational brochures, the educational 
brochures for male patients will also include the following information: 
o  The need to avoid foetal exposure 
o  That thalidomide is found in semen and the need to use condoms if sexual partner is 
pregnant or is a woman with childbearing potential not on effective contraception 
o  That if his partner becomes pregnant he should inform his treating doctor immediately 
and always use a condom 
o  That he should not donate semen during treatment (including during dose interruptions) 
and for at least 7 days following discontinuation of thalidomide 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
Patient cards and/or equivalent tools: 
•  Verification that appropriate counselling has taken place 
•  Documentation of childbearing potential status 
•  Check box (or similar) which physician ticks to confirm that patient is using effective 
contraception (if woman of childbearing potential) 
•  Verification of initial negative pregnancy test prior to start of treatment (if woman of 
childbearing potential) 
•  Pregnancy test dates and results 
Summary of product characteristics, package leaflet and labelling 
Pregnancy initial and outcome reporting forms 
Adverse reaction reporting forms 
Post-marketing and compliance assessment (as applicable to a Member State) 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Thalidomide Lipomed 100 mg coated tablets 
thalidomide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each coated tablet contains 100 mg of thalidomide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose monohydrate and sucrose; see leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Use only as directed by your doctor.  
WARNING: Thalidomide causes birth defects and foetal death.  
Patients must follow the Pregnancy Prevention Programme. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Unused medicinal product should be returned to your pharmacist. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Lipomed GmbH 
Hegenheimer Strasse 2 
79576 Weil am Rhein 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1676/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Thalidomide Lipomed 100 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Thalidomide Lipomed 100 mg tablets 
thalidomide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Lipomed 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Thalidomide Lipomed 100 mg coated tablets 
thalidomide 
WARNING 
Thalidomide causes birth defects and foetal death. Do not take thalidomide if you are pregnant 
or could become pregnant. You must follow the contraception advice given to you by your 
doctor. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Thalidomide Lipomed is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Thalidomide Lipomed 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Thalidomide Lipomed 
Possible side effects 
How to store Thalidomide Lipomed 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Thalidomide Lipomed is and what it is used for 
What Thalidomide Lipomed is 
Thalidomide Lipomed contains an active substance called thalidomide. This belongs to a group of 
medicines which affect how your immune system works. 
What Thalidomide Lipomed is used for 
Thalidomide Lipomed is used with two other medicines called ‘melphalan’ and ‘prednisone’ to treat 
adults with a type of cancer called multiple myeloma. It is used in people who have recently been 
diagnosed and who have not been prescribed another medicine for their multiple myeloma before who 
are aged 65 years and over, or aged less than 65 years who cannot be treated with high dose 
chemotherapy, which can be very difficult for the body to handle. 
What is multiple myeloma 
Multiple myeloma is a type of cancer which affects a certain type of white blood cell, called the 
plasma cell. These cells collect in the bone marrow and divide out of control. This can damage the 
bone and kidneys. Multiple myeloma generally cannot be cured. However, the signs and symptoms 
can be greatly reduced or disappear for a period of time. This is called a ‘remission’. 
How Thalidomide Lipomed works 
Thalidomide Lipomed works by helping the body’s immune system and directly attacking the cancer. 
It works in a number of different ways: 
- 
- 
- 
by stopping the cancer cells developing, 
by stopping blood vessels growing in the cancer, 
by stimulating part of the immune system to attack the cancer cells.  
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Thalidomide Lipomed 
You will have been given specific instructions by your doctor, particularly on the effects of 
thalidomide on unborn babies (outlined in the Thalidomide Lipomed Pregnancy Prevention 
Programme). 
You will have been given an educational brochure for patients by your doctor. Read it carefully and 
follow the related instructions. 
If you do not fully understand these instructions, please ask your doctor to explain them again before 
you take thalidomide. See also further information in this section under “Warnings and precautions” 
and “Pregnancy and breast-feeding”. 
Do not take Thalidomide Lipomed 
- 
if you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant or are planning to become pregnant, as 
Thalidomide Lipomed causes birth defects and foetal death, 
if you are able to become pregnant, unless you are able to follow or comply with the required 
contraceptive measures to prevent you from becoming pregnant (see section 2 “Warnings and 
precautions” and “Pregnancy and breast-feeding”), 
if you are able to become pregnant, your doctor will record with each prescription that the 
necessary measures have been taken and will provide you with this confirmation, 
if you are allergic to thalidomide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine listed in 
section 6 “Contents of the pack and other information”.  
- 
- 
- 
Do not take Thalidomide Lipomed if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your 
doctor or pharmacist before taking Thalidomide Lipomed. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking this medicine in the following situations: 
For women taking Thalidomide Lipomed 
Before starting the treatment, you should ask your doctor if you are able to become pregnant, even if 
you think this is unlikely. Even if you do not have a menstrual bleeding following cancer therapy, you 
may become pregnant. 
If you are able to become pregnant: 
- 
Your doctor will make sure that you have pregnancy tests 
before treatment, 
every 4 weeks during treatment, 
4 weeks after stopping treatment. 
- 
You must use one effective method of contraception: 
for at least 4 weeks before starting treatment, 
during treatment, 
until at least 4 weeks after stopping treatment. 
Your doctor will tell you what method of contraception to use. 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
If you are able to become pregnant, your doctor will record with each prescription that the necessary 
measures, as outlined above, have been taken. 
For men taking Thalidomide Lipomed 
Thalidomide passes into semen. Therefore, do not have unprotected intercourse, even if you had a 
vasectomy. 
- 
Pregnancy and any exposure during pregnancy must be avoided. Always use a condom 
o 
o 
during treatment, 
for at least 7 days after stopping treatment. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
You must not donate semen 
o 
o 
during treatment, 
for at least 7 days after stopping treatment. 
For all patients  
Talk to your doctor before taking Thalidomide Lipomed if any of the following apply to you: 
- 
You do not understand the contraception advice given to you by your doctor or if you do not 
feel able to follow this advice. 
You have had a heart attack, have ever had a blood clot in the past, or if you smoke, have high 
blood pressure or high cholesterol levels. During the treatment with Thalidomide Lipomed you 
have an increased risk of developing blood clots in the veins and arteries (see also section 4 
“Possible side effects”). 
You have experienced or have existing neuropathy, i.e. nerve damage causing tingling, 
abnormal co-ordination or pain in your hands or feet (see also section 4 “Possible side effects”). 
You experienced or have existing slow heart rate (this may be a symptom of bradycardia). 
You have high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs (see also section 4 “Possible side 
effects”). 
You have a fall in the number of white blood cells (neutropenia) accompanied by fever and 
infection. 
You have a fall in the number of platelets. You will be more prone to bleeding and bruising. 
You have or have had injury to the liver (hepatic disorders) including abnormal liver test results. 
You experience or have experienced in the past severe skin reactions called Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis or drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms 
(which is also known as DRESS or drug hypersensitivity syndrome) (for description of 
symptoms see section 4 “Possible side effects”). 
You have had an allergic reaction whilst taking Thalidomide Lipomed such as rash, itching, 
swelling, dizziness or trouble breathing. 
You have experienced sleepiness. 
You have experienced fever, chills and severe shaking, and possibly complicated by low blood 
pressure and confusion (these may be symptoms of severe infections). 
You have or have ever had previous viral infection, particularly varicella zoster, hepatitis B 
infection, or HIV. If you are in doubt, talk to your doctor. Treatment with Thalidomide Lipomed 
may cause a virus to become active again in patients who carry it, resulting in a recurrence of 
the infection. Your doctor should check whether you have ever had hepatitis B infection. 
You have kidney or liver problems (see also section 4 “Possible side effects”).  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Your thyroid function may be checked before you take thalidomide and monitored during treatment. 
At any time during or after your treatment, tell your doctor or nurse immediately if you experience: 
blurred, loss of or double vision, difficulty speaking, weakness in an arm or a leg, a change in the way 
you walk or problems with your balance, persistent numbness, decreased sensation or loss of 
sensation, memory loss or confusion. These may all be symptoms of a serious and potentially fatal 
brain condition known as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). If you had these 
symptoms prior to treatment with Thalidomide Lipomed, tell your doctor about any change in these 
symptoms. 
Your doctor may check if you have a high total amount of tumour throughout the body, including your 
bone marrow. This could lead to a condition where the tumours break down and cause unusual levels 
of chemicals in the body which can lead to kidney failure (this condition is called Tumour Lysis 
Syndrome) (see also section 4 “Possible side effects”).  
Your doctor should evaluate if you develop additional types of haematological malignancies (called 
acute myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) during your treatment with Thalidomide 
Lipomed (see also section 4 “Possible side effects”).  
You must not donate blood during treatment with Thalidomide Lipomed and for at least 7 days after 
stopping treatment.  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are not sure if any of the above apply to you, talk to your doctor before taking Thalidomide 
Lipomed. 
Children and adolescents 
Thalidomide Lipomed is not recommended for use in children and young people under 18 years. 
Other medicines and Thalidomide Lipomed 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription, including herbal medicines.  
Make sure you tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines: 
- 
Medicines which cause sleepiness as thalidomide may increase their effects. This includes 
sedatives (such as anxiolytics, hypnotics, antipsychotics, H1 antihistamines, opiate derivatives 
and barbiturates). 
Medicines which slow the heart rate (induce bradycardia, such as anticholinesterases and beta 
blockers). 
Medicines which are used for heart problems and complications (such as digoxin), or for 
thinning the blood (such as warfarin). 
Medicines which are associated with neuropathy such as other treatments for cancer. 
Medicines which are used for contraception.  
- 
- 
- 
- 
Thalidomide Lipomed with food, drink and alcohol 
Do not drink alcohol while you are taking Thalidomide Lipomed. This is because alcohol can make 
you sleepy and Thalidomide Lipomed can make you even sleepier. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
Thalidomide causes severe birth defects or death to an unborn baby. 
- 
As little as one coated tablet taken by a pregnant woman can cause a baby to have serious birth 
defects. 
These defects can include shortened arms or legs, malformed hands or feet, eye or ear defects, 
and problems with internal organs.  
- 
If you are pregnant, you must not take Thalidomide Lipomed. In addition, you must not become 
pregnant while taking Thalidomide Lipomed. 
You must use one effective method of contraception if you are a woman who is able to become 
pregnant (see section 2 “What you need to know before you take Thalidomide Lipomed”). 
You must stop treatment and inform your doctor straight away if 
- 
you miss or think you have missed a period, or you have unusual menstrual bleeding, or suspect 
you are pregnant, 
- 
you have heterosexual intercourse without using an effective method of contraception.  
If you do become pregnant during the treatment with thalidomide, you must stop the treatment and 
inform your doctor immediately. 
For men taking Thalidomide Lipomed who have a female partner who is able to become pregnant, 
please see section 2 “What you need to know before you take Thalidomide Lipomed”. If your partner 
becomes pregnant whilst you are taking thalidomide, you should inform your doctor immediately. 
Breast-feeding 
Do not breastfeed when taking Thalidomide Lipomed as it is not known if thalidomide is passed into 
human breast milk. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use any tools or machines if you experience side effects, such as dizziness, tiredness, 
sleepiness or blurred vision. 
Thalidomide Lipomed coated tablets contain lactose and sucrose 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Thalidomide Lipomed 
Always take Thalidomide Lipomed exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you to. Check with 
your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
How much to take 
The recommended dose is 200 mg (2 x 100 mg coated tablet) a day for adults aged 75 years and under 
or 100 mg (1 x 100 mg coated tablet) a day for adults aged over 75 years. However, your doctor will 
choose the dose for you, monitor your progress and may adjust your dose. Your doctor will tell you 
how to take Thalidomide Lipomed and for how long you will need to take it (see section 2 “What you 
need to know before you take Thalidomide Lipomed”). 
Thalidomide Lipomed is taken daily in treatment cycles, each cycle lasting 6 weeks, in combination 
with melphalan and prednisone which are taken on Days 1 to 4 of each 6-week cycle.  
Taking this medicine  
- 
Do not break or chew the coated tablets. If powder from a broken Thalidomide Lipomed coated 
tablet makes contact with the skin, wash the skin immediately and thoroughly with soap and 
water. 
Healthcare professionals, caregivers and family members should wear disposable gloves when 
handling the blisters or coated tablets. Gloves should then be removed carefully to prevent skin 
exposure, placed in a sealable plastic polyethylene bag and disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. Hands should then be washed thoroughly with soap and water. Women who are 
pregnant or suspect they may be pregnant should not handle the blisters or coated tablets. 
Take this medicine by mouth. 
Swallow the coated tablets whole with a full glass of water. 
Do not crush or chew the coated tablets. 
Take the coated tablets as a single dose before going to bed. This will make you less likely to 
feel sleepy at other times.  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you take more Thalidomide Lipomed than you should 
If you take more Thalidomide Lipomed than you should, talk to a doctor or go to a hospital 
straightaway. If possible, take the medicine pack and this leaflet with you.  
If you forget to take Thalidomide Lipomed 
If you forget to take Thalidomide Lipomed at your regular time 
- 
- 
and less than 12 hours have passed: take your coated tablets immediately;  
more than 12 hours have passed: do not take your coated tablets. Take your next coated tablets 
at the usual time the next day. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following side effects may happen with this medicine: 
Stop taking Thalidomide Lipomed and see a doctor straight away if you notice the following 
serious side effects – you may need urgent medical treatment: 
- 
Extremely intense and serious skin reactions. The adverse reaction of the skin may appear as 
rashes with or without blisters. Skin irritation, sores or swelling in the mouth, throat, eyes, nose 
and around the genitals, oedema and fever and flulike symptoms may occur. These symptoms 
may be signs of the rare and serious skin reactions Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis or DRESS syndrome. 
Allergic reactions such as localised or generalised pruritic rash, angioedema and anaphylactic 
reaction (serious types of allergic reaction that may be manifested as hives, rashes, swelling of 
eyes, mouth or face, difficulty of breathing, or itching). 
- 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following serious side effects:  
- 
Numbness, tingling, abnormal coordination or pain in your hands and feet. 
This may be due to nerve damage (called ‘peripheral neuropathy’), which is a very common 
side effect. It may become very severe, painful and disabling. If you experience such symptoms, 
speak to your doctor straight away, who may reduce the dose or discontinue the treatment. This 
side effect usually happens after you have been taking this medicine for several months but can 
happen sooner than this. It can also happen sometime after treatment has stopped. It may not go 
away, or may go away slowly.  
Sudden pain in your chest or difficulty in breathing. 
This may be due to blood clots in the arteries leading to your lungs (called ‘pulmonary 
embolism’), which is a common side effect. These can happen during treatment, or after 
treatment has stopped.  
Pain or swelling in your legs, especially in your lower leg or calves. 
This may be due to blood clots in the veins of your leg (deep vein thrombosis), which is a 
common side effect. These can happen during treatment, or after treatment has stopped.  
Chest pain spreading to the arms, neck, jaw, back or stomach, feeling sweaty and 
breathless, feeling sick or vomiting. 
These may be symptoms of a heart attack/myocardial infarction (which may be due to blood 
clots in the arteries of your heart). 
Having difficulty in seeing or speaking, which is temporary. 
These may be symptoms of a stroke (which may be due to a clot in an artery in your brain).  
Fever, chills, sore throat, cough, mouth ulcers or any other symptoms of infection.  
Bleeding or bruising in the absence of injury.  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Other side effects include: 
It is important to note that a small number of patients with multiple myeloma may develop additional 
types of cancer, especially haematological malignancies, and it is possible that this risk may be 
increased with Thalidomide Lipomed treatment; therefore, your doctor should carefully evaluate the 
benefit and risk when you are prescribed Thalidomide Lipomed. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Constipation. 
Feeling dizzy. 
Sleepiness, feeling tired. 
Shaking (tremor). 
Decreased or abnormal sensation (dysaesthesia). 
Swelling of hands and feet. 
Low blood cell counts. This may mean that you are more likely to develop infections. Your 
doctor may monitor your blood cell counts during treatment with Thalidomide Lipomed.  
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
Indigestion, feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting), dry mouth.  
Rash, dryness of the skin.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
A fall in the number of white blood cells (neutropenia) accompanied by fever and infection.  
A fall in the number of red and white blood cells and platelets at the same time (pancytopenia). 
Feeling weak, faint or unsteady, lack of energy or strength, low blood pressure. 
Fever, feeling generally unwell. 
Convulsions. 
A spinning feeling in your head, making it difficult to stand up and move normally. 
Blurred vision. 
Chest infection (pneumonia), lung disease. 
A slow heart rate, heart failure. 
Depression, confusion, mood changes, anxiety. 
Hearing decreased or deafness. 
Kidney disease (renal failure).  
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Inflammation and swelling of the tubes in your lungs (bronchitis). 
Inflammation of the cells lining your stomach wall. 
A hole in part of your large bowel (colon) which can cause infection. 
Bowel obstruction. 
Fall of blood pressure on standing which may lead to fainting. 
Irregularities of the heartbeat (heart block or atrial fibrillation), feeling faint or fainting.  
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
- 
- 
Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism). 
Sexual dysfunction, for example impotence. 
Severe blood infection (sepsis) accompanied by fever, chills and severe shaking, and possibly 
complicated by low blood pressure and confusion (septic shock). 
Tumour Lysis Syndrome – metabolic complications that can occur during the treatment of 
cancer and sometimes even without treatment. These complications are caused by the break-
down products of dying cancer cells and may include the following: changes to blood 
chemistry; high potassium, phosphorus, uric acid, and low calcium consequently leading to 
changes in kidney function, heartbeat, seizures, and sometimes death. 
Injury to the liver (hepatic disorder) including abnormal liver test results. 
Bleeding from the stomach or bowels (gastrointestinal haemorrhage). 
Worsening of Parkinson’s disease symptoms (such as tremor, depression or confusion). 
Pain in the upper abdomen and/or back, which may be severe and which remains for a few days, 
possibly accompanied by nausea, vomiting, fever and a rapid pulse – these symptoms may be 
due to the inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis). 
Increase in blood pressure within blood vessels that supply the lungs which can lead to 
shortness of breath, tiredness, dizziness, pain in the chest, a faster heartbeat, or swelling in the 
legs or ankles (pulmonary hypertension). 
Viral infections, including herpes zoster (also known as ‘shingles’, a viral disease that causes a 
painful skin rash with blisters) and recurrence of hepatitis B infection (which can cause 
yellowing of the skin and eyes, dark brown-coloured urine, right-sided stomach pain, fever and 
feeling nauseous or being sick). 
A brain condition with symptoms including vision changes, headache, seizures, and confusion, 
with or without high blood pressure (Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome or PRES). 
A condition affecting the skin caused by inflammation of small blood vessels, along with pain 
in the joints and fever (leukocytoclastic vasculitis).  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Thalidomide Lipomed 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the blister after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not use if you notice any damage or signs of tampering.  
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
At the end of your treatment you should return all unused coated tablets to the pharmacist or doctor. 
These measures will prevent misuse. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Thalidomide Lipomed contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is thalidomide. Each coated tablet contains 100 mg of thalidomide. 
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate (see section 2 “What you need to know before 
you take Thalidomide Lipomed”), copovidone (E 1208), talc (E 553b), magnesium stearate 
(E 470b), microcrystalline cellulose [E 460(i)], heavy kaolin (E 559), sucrose (see section 2 
“What you need to know before you take Thalidomide Lipomed”), acacia (E 414), calcium 
carbonate (E 170), titanium dioxide (E 171). 
What Thalidomide Lipomed looks like and contents of the pack 
Thalidomide Lipomed 100 mg coated tablets are white sugar-coated tablets. The coated tablets are 
supplied in a carton containing 30 coated tablets (3 blisters of 10 coated tablets each). 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Lipomed GmbH 
Hegenheimer Strasse 2 
79576 Weil am Rhein 
Germany 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
