EMA/94265/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005434 
Thiotepa Riemser (thiotepa) 
An overview of Thiotepa Riemser and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Thiotepa Riemser and what is it used for? 
Thiotepa Riemser is used in combination with chemotherapy in two ways: 
• 
as a ‘conditioning’ (preparative) treatment before transplantation of haematopoietic progenitor 
cells (the cells that make blood cells). This type of transplant is used in patients who need 
replacement blood-making cells because they have a blood disease such as a cancer of the blood 
(e.g. leukaemia) or diseases causing low red-blood cell counts (including thalassaemia or sickle-cell 
anaemia); 
• 
during the treatment of solid tumours when high-dose chemotherapy followed by transplantation of 
haematopoietic progenitor cells is needed. 
Thiotepa Riemser can be used for transplantation of progenitor cells from a donor or for transplantation 
of progenitor cells from the patient’s own body. 
Thiotepa Riemser contains the active substance thiotepa and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Thiotepa Riemser contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Tepadina. For more information on generic medicines, 
see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Thiotepa Riemser used? 
Thiotepa Riemser can only be obtained with a prescription. The medicine must be given under the 
supervision of a doctor who has experience in conditioning treatments given before transplantation.  
Thiotepa Riemser is given by infusion (drip) into a large vein over 2 to 4 hours. The dose depends on 
the type of blood disease or tumour that the patient has and the type of transplantation to be carried 
out as well as the patient’s weight or weight and height.  
For more information about using Thiotepa Riemser, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Thiotepa Riemser work? 
The active substance in Thiotepa Riemser, thiotepa, belongs to a group of medicines called ‘alkylating 
agents’. These substances are ‘cytotoxic’. This means that they kill cells, especially cells that multiply 
rapidly, such as cancer of progenitor (or ‘stem’) cells (cells that can develop into different types of 
cell).  
Thiotepa Riemser is used with other medicines before transplantation to destroy the abnormal cells and 
the patient’s existing blood-making cells. This allows new cells to be transplanted, by creating space 
for the new cells and reducing the risk of rejection. Thiotepa has been used to prepare patients for 
transplantation of blood-making cells in the European Union (EU) since the late 1980s.  
How has Thiotepa Riemser been studied? 
The company provided data from the published literature on thiotepa. Studies on the benefits and risks 
of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been carried out with the reference 
medicine, Tepadina, and do not need to be repeated for Thiotepa Riemser. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Thiotepa Riemser. There was no 
need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Thiotepa Riemser is absorbed similarly to the 
reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
Thiotepa Riemser is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the 
bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Thiotepa Riemser? 
Because Thiotepa Riemser is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Thiotepa Riemser authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Thiotepa Riemser 
has been shown to be comparable to Tepadina. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for 
Tepadina, the benefits of Thiotepa Riemser outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Thiotepa Riemser? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Thiotepa Riemser have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Thiotepa Riemser are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Thiotepa Riemser are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Thiotepa Riemser 
Thiotepa Riemser received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 March 2021. 
Thiotepa Riemser (thiotepa)  
EMA/94265/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Further information on Thiotepa Riemser can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/thiotepa-riemser. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 03-2021. 
Thiotepa Riemser (thiotepa)  
EMA/94265/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
