SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Thyrogen and has been 
updated until 1 July 2004. For information on changes after this date please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Thyroid  cancer  is  an  uncommon  disease,  which  affects  mostly  female  adult  patients.  Well-
differentiated  thyroid  cancer  accounts  for  80-90%  of  all  thyroid  cancers.  Initial  treatment  is  total  or 
near-total  thyroidectomy.  Once  the  gland  has  been  removed  the  patient  is  given  thyroid  hormone 
suppression  therapy  (THST),  either  thyroxine  (T4)  or  tri-iodothyronine  (T3),  to  suppress  thyroid 
stimulating  hormone (TSH) serum levels to  below  0.5  mU/l. TSH suppression  is  necessary to avoid 
stimulation of thyroid remnants or thyroid cancer. Recurrences and metastases tend to develop slowly, 
requiring prolonged follow-up. 
Thyrogen  contains  the  active  ingredient  thyrotropin  alfa,  which  is  recombinant  human  thyroid-
stimulating  hormone  (rhTSH).  The  indication  initially  approved  was  use  with  radioiodine  imaging 
together with serum  thyroglobulin (Tg) testing undertaken for the detection of thyroid remnants and 
well-differentiated  thyroid  cancer  in  post-thyroidectomy  patients  maintained  on  thyroid  hormone 
suppression  therapy  (THST).  Further  to  the  assessment  of  a  type  II  variation,  the  indication  was 
extended to include use with or without radioiodine imaging and the possibility of following up low 
risk patients with well-differentiated thyroid carcinoma who have undetectable Tg levels on THST and 
no rhTSH-stimulated increase of Tg levels. 
Thyrogen is formulated as a powder for solution for injection. The recommended dose regimen is two 
doses  of  0.9-mg  thyrotropin  alfa  administered  intramuscularly  24  hours  apart.  Radioiodine 
is  performed  
administration 
48-72 hours later. Serum Tg should be measured 48-72 hours after the last dose. 
is  performed  24  hours  after 
last  dose  and  scanning 
the 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Thyrotropin  alfa  is  human  thyroid  stimulating  hormone  produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology. 
The product is a lyophilised powder presented in a 5-ml glass vial with siliconised butyl stopper. The 
powder is reconstituted with 1.2 ml of sterile water for injection and 1 ml is withdrawn for a 0.9-mg 
dose. Preclinical and early clinical trials used a formulation of 3.6 mg/ml but the same dosage of 0.9 
mg.  Thyrogen  is  formulated  for  single  use  intramuscular  injection  and  as  such  contains  no 
preservative. 
Active substance 
Description 
Thyrotropin  alfa  is  a  heterodimeric  glycoprotein  produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology.  It  is  a 
recombinant form of the naturally occurring protein TSH, and is comprised of 2 non-covalently linked 
subunits,  an  alpha  subunit  of  92  amino  acid  residues  containing  two  N-linked  glycosylation  sites 
(asparagine 52 and 78) and a beta subunit of 118 amino acids containing one N-linked glycosylation 
site (asparagine 23). The dimer structure is essential for function. 
Thyrotropin alfa has comparable biochemical properties to natural human TSH. Binding of thyrotropin 
alfa to TSH receptors on thyroid epithelial cells stimulates iodine uptake and organification, synthesis 
and secretion of Tg, T3 and T4. 
The ATC code for thyrotropin alfa is V04CJ01. 
Comprehensive structural analysis of thyrotropin alfa has been performed to investigate the primary, 
secondary, and tertiary structure, and post-translational modifications. The aim of thorough structural 
analysis was to prove authenticity with human pituitary TSH (phTSH). The primary sequences of both 
proteins were comparable. 
1/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cell bank 
Thyrogen is produced by mammalian cell culture using a Chinese Hamster ovary (CHO) cell line co-
transfected with recombinant plasmids  containing DNA  sequences encoding the alpha and  beta sub-
units  of  TSH.  A  stable  subcloned  cell  line  expressing  TSH  was  used  to  prepare  a  master  cell  bank 
(MCB) that was tested for bacterial, mycoplasmal, fungal and viral agents. 
The MCB has been fully characterised, as were EOP (End of Production) cells. Results were typical 
for a cell substrate of Chinese Hamster origin. The cells should be considered as being tumourigenic. 
There  was  no  evidence  of  fungal,  bacterial  or  mycoplasmal  contamination.  No  viral  particles  apart 
from  intracytoplasmic  A-type  particles  were  detected.  A  battery  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  tests  were 
negative for infective, endogenous or adventitious viruses. 
Fermentation 
Production of the active ingredient is performed by Genzyme, Framingham, Massachusetts, USA. The 
protein  is  produced  by  a  batch-harvest/re-feed  type  fermentation  using  cells  from  the  Working  Cell 
Bank (WCB), which is derived from the MCB. 
Comprehensive  details  on  fermentation  conditions,  raw  materials  and  growth  media  used  in  cell 
culture  were  provided.  All  materials  of  animal  origin  comply  with  the  CPMP/BWP/877/96  note  for 
guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal  spongiform  encephalopathy  agents  via 
medicinal  products  and  EMEA  354/96  opinion  of  the  EMEA  on  the  potential  risk  associated  with 
medicinal products in relation to Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE).  
Adequate In Process Controls are performed. Harvests are stored in dedicated containers until further 
processing. The suitability of these holding conditions has been confirmed.  
Purification 
Bioreactor harvests meeting specifications are filtered, pooled, concentrated by ultrafiltration, diluted 
and  purified  by  several  column  chromatography  steps  utilising  several  modes  of  separation,  before 
being concentrated, diafiltered and diluted to a target concentration (unformulated purified bulk). Full 
details  on  reagents,  column  sanitisation  and  qualification  have  been  provided.  Storage  times  and 
conditions  of  the  intermediates  have  been  satisfactorily  validated.  In-Process  Control  testing  is 
conducted on eluate fractions and pools. 
Product development and finished product 
The  finished  product  is  manufactured  at  the  Genzyme  facility  in  Allston,  Massachusetts,  USA.  The 
‘unformulated  purified  bulk’  is  formulated  to  a  final  concentration  of  0.9  mg/ml  and  then  sterile 
filtered  through  a  ≤  0.22-µm  filter,  filled  into  depyrogenated  vials,  lyophilised,  stoppered  and 
packaged.  The  manufacturing  process  is  described in sufficient  detail.  The formulated  bulk is tested 
for chemical, physical and microbiological aspects according to the specification provided. 
During  the  assessment,  the  company  submitted  a  full-scale  validation  report  for  the  intended 
commercial  scale.  This  scale  was  twice  as  high  as  that  of  the  initially  submitted  scale.  A  GMP 
inspection was performed at the manufacturing site on March 25 1999 to address a Quality Assurance 
issue. The corrective steps taken by the company were considered acceptable. 
The  recommended  dosing  and  administration  of  thyrotropin  alfa  is  based  on  protein  content  rather 
than activity. The use of a direct spectrophotometric method for determining thyrotropin alfa content 
has been justified by the high purity of the produced protein (99.9%). An ELISA test is also used to 
measure  the  concentration  of  intact  rhTSH  dimers  for  which  the  Company  has  tightened  the 
specifications. The only source of non-specificity for this method is interference from dissociated TSH 
subunits.  In  view  of  this,  the  Company  has  developed  and  validated  a  test  method  for  the 
determination of these dissociated subunits using native PAGE (polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis). 
The  Company  has  committed  to  review  the  Native  PAGE  specification  when  further  data  become 
available. 
Two bioassays are performed to evaluate the specific activity, both of which are variable. The in vitro 
bioassay  is  based  upon  the  radioimmunoassay  measurement  of  cyclic  adenosine  monophosphate 
(cAMP) produced by a bovine thyroid gland microsome preparation in response to a thyrotropin alfa 
test  sample  in  comparison  with  a  reference  standard  curve.  The  Company  has  committed  to 
2/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
establishing  an  in  house  reference  standard  when  data  from  further  lots  will  be  available.  In  the 
meantime the WHO TSH standard is used. 
The  in  vivo  bioassay  is  based  on  TSH-stimulated  T4  secretion  in  mice  with  suppressed  endogenous 
TSH levels. The mass of TSH required to obtain a half maximal T4 response (ED50) is calculated from 
a dose response curve. The Company argued that it is inappropriate to calculate confidence levels for 
this  bioassay’s  results  due  to  the  method  format.  In  addition,  the  Company  has  committed  to 
developing and validating a cell-based bioassay, which eventually will replace both the in vivo and in 
vitro assay. 
Thyrotropin alfa exists as a mixture of isoforms reflecting a variety of post-translational modifications 
including sialylation, which in turn may influence bioactivity. In order to address the limitations of the 
bioassays  and  in  order  to  address  the  variability  in  carbohydrate  composition,  the  Company  has 
performed  a  comparative  isoelectric  focussing  (IEF)  study  using  a  rhTSH  reference  material.  This 
study demonstrated a consistent isoform pattern among several finished product lots. The addition of a 
comparative IEF test to finished product testing will give reassurance as to the consistency of product 
manufacture. A specification for sialic acid content has also been added for the finished productThe 
primary route of degradation observed for the finished product of Thyrogen is aggregation (tested by 
SEC – HPLC). Other potential modes of degradation for a heterodimeric glycosylated protein include 
subunit dissociation, deglycosylation, protein fragmentation, deamidation oxidation and denaturation.  
The Company provided stability data that support the proposed storage times and conditions. 
The Company has limited stability data on full scale (12,000 vials) production batches (2 lots for up to 
9 months) but has supporting data on 6,000 vials lots (two lots up to 18 months) and 3,000 vial lots 
(three  lots  up  to  36  months)  which  support  a  shelf-life  of  36  months  when  stored  between  +2  and  
+8 C°. Results from the first three production batches will be submitted on an ongoing basis. 
Viral safety 
The  chromatography  columns  are  the  essential  elements  of  the  purification  procedure  of  Thyrogen. 
Virus clearance potential has been investigated in the chromatography steps. Full details on the scaled 
down,  viral  spiking  studies  on  the  four  relevant  chromatographic  steps  have  been  provided.  Each 
column chromatography step was evaluated separately with several model viruses. From these data it 
can  be  concluded  that  the  combination  of  the  column  steps,  which  represent  a  broad  spectrum  of 
chromatographic  separation,  provides  a  considerable  potential  for  virus  removal.  The  viral  safety  of 
Thyrogen  is  sufficiently  demonstrated  by  the  extensive  test  strategy  (cell  bank  system,  bioreactor 
harvest,  and  biological  reagents)  for  viral  contamination  and  the  high  capacity  of  the  purification 
process for virus removal (10 to 12 logs). 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  could  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments,  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  documentation  provided  by  the  Applicant 
demonstrated the Quality of Thyrogen. These post-authorisation commitments were a critical part of the 
positive  CPMP  Opinion  issued  in  July  1999.  Failure  to  provide  a  satisfactory  response  to  these 
commitments was deemed to constitute a potential risk to public health as they related to the consistency 
of  manufacture  and  thereby  the  Quality  of  Thyrogen.  In  October  1999  the  Applicant  provided 
satisfactory information and the issues concerning the Quality of the product were resolved. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The pre-clinical study reports submitted in Part III of the dossier were based on the requirements laid 
down  in  the  International  Conference  on  Harmonisation  document  «Pre-clinical  safety  evaluation  of 
biotechnology  derived  pharmaceuticals»  (ICH  S6,  CPMP/ICH/302/95).  The  species  used  represent 
laboratory  animals  commonly  used  in  pharmacologic/toxicologic  research  and  were  suitable  models 
for  the  proposed  indication.  The  studies  conducted  were  adequate  in  number  and  type  to  assess  the 
possible  toxicological  effects  of  Thyrogen.  Pivotal  studies  conformed  to  Good  Laboratory  Practice 
(GLP). 
3/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both bovine TSH (bTSH) and human pituitary TSH (phTSH) have been used for this indication, but 
have  been  withdrawn  from  the  market  for  safety  reasons  (adverse  reactions  and  potential  viral 
transmission).  The  development  of  rhTSH  was  based  on  the  known  efficacy  and  therapeutic  dose 
levels established for TSH from these other sources. This approach resulted in a somewhat abbreviated 
pre-clinical package. 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics 
The pre-clinical development of Thyrogen was based on the premise that rhTSH has the same activity 
as  native  TSH  and  is  therefore  unlikely  to  have  toxic  effects.  Thus  most  of  the  pre-clinical  studies 
were  multi-purpose,  combining  efficacy  and  kinetic  measurements  with  observation  for  adverse 
effects. The dose ranges tested, routes of administration and testing protocol were based on experience 
with  bTSH  and  phTSH  and  were  similar  to  those  proposed  for  man.  There  was  no  documented 
evidence  of  dose-range  studies  with  TSH  from  any  source,  nor  were  there  any  studies  to  directly 
compare rhTSH with bTSH or phTSH. 
The activity of rhTSH was shown in vitro, in a mouse bioassay and in monkeys. 
There  was  good  reproducibility  of  performance  between  lots  of  rhTSH,  however  clarification  was 
requested on some inconsistency between the measured and the claimed activity of the product, and 
the assays used have been improved. 
The  pharmacological  effect  was  demonstrated  in  a  study  with  euthyroid  rhesus  monkeys.  This  data 
was limited by the nature  of the product and the low numbers  of animals used. One pair  of animals 
received  a  single  dose  of  rhTSH  intramuscularly  (IM)  followed,  after  6  hours,  by  123I  in  saline 
intravenously (IV). Thyroid uptake of 123I increased up to 6 hours, and blood T3 and T4 increased up to 
24 hours post-dose. A second pair of animals received 3 daily doses of rhTSH IM followed, after 20 
hours, by 123I in saline intravenously (IV). Thyroid uptake of 123I increased up to 20 hours, and blood 
T3 and T4 increased up to 40 hours post-dose. 
Exposure increased linearly with dose, strength and number of injections, metabolism was presumed 
to proceed via breakdown to constituent peptides, clearance was rapid (T½ = 8 hours) and elimination 
appeared to be renal. 
Toxicology 
There were  no  adverse  events noted in any of  the  monkey trials,  pathology data  were  not  available. 
Two rodent toxicity studies were carried out with full pathology, at doses up to 10 times the proposed 
human  dose,  with  no  adverse  effects  noticed.  The  results  of  a  bacterial  reverse  mutation  assay  with 
Thyrogen were negative.   
Considering the proposed usage and the recommendations of ICH S6, the absence of drug interaction, 
reproductive toxicity, carcinogenicity and local tolerance studies was considered justified. 
Given the proposed usage, there is no short-term toxicological hazard to man. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  incidence  rate  of  differentiated  thyroid  carcinomas  ranges  from  0.5  to  10  cases  per  100,000 
persons  per  year  (Schlumberger,  NEJM,  1998).  An  increased  incidence  of  papillary  carcinomas  has 
been  observed  in  children  in  areas  where  nuclear  irradiation  has  occurred  (Chernobyl,  Marshall 
Islands).  The  survival  rate  at  10  years  for  middle-aged  adults  with  well-differentiated  thyroid 
carcinomas is above 80%. 
In patients with thyroid cancer, a near total or total thyroidectomy is performed and patients are placed 
on  synthetic  thyroid  hormone  supplements  to  replace  endogenous  hormone  and  to  suppress  serum 
levels of TSH in order to avoid TSH-stimulated tumour growth. For the optimal diagnosis of thyroid 
remnants  or  cancer  via  radioiodine imaging and  Tg testing,  a  high  serum level of  TSH is  needed  to 
stimulate  radioiodine  uptake  and  Tg  secretion  from  thyroid  cells.  The  standard  approach  to  achieve 
elevated  TSH  levels  has  been  to  withdraw  patients  from  thyroid  hormone  suppression  therapy 
(THST),  which  usually  causes  patients  to  experience  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  hypothyroidism. 
Although  less  sensitive,  it  is  also  common  practice  to  perform  Tg  testing  while  patients  remain  on 
4/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
thyroid hormones and are euthyroid. With the use of Thyrogen, the TSH stimulation necessary for the 
diagnostic  procedures  is  achieved  while  patients  are  maintained  euthyroid  on  thyroid  hormone 
suppression therapy, thus avoiding the morbidity associated with hypothyroidism. 
Clinical pharmacology: pharmacokinetics and bioequivalence 
Study  TSH94-0301  was  designed  as  a  pharmacokinetic  and  bioequivalence  two-arm,  randomised, 
two-way crossover study of two Thyrogen formulations (lot A used for the early clinical studies, and 
lot B, the formula to be marketed) in patients with well-differentiated thyroid carcinoma.  
Arm I received a 0.9 mg IM (intramuscular) injection of lot A (or lot B) and after 14 days a 0.9 mg IM 
injection of lot B (or A). Arm II received a 0.3 mg IV (intravenous) (or IM) bolus of lot B and after 14 
days a 0.3 mg IM (or IV) injection of lot B. 
The  first  arm  determined  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  Thyrogen  and  the  bioequivalence  of  the  2 
formulations.  Results  of  the  0.9  mg/ml  formulation  (lot  B,  proposed  Thyrogen  formulation  for 
marketing) indicated that the mean maximum serum TSH (Cmax) was 116±38 (95%CI) mU/l with a 
mean time to maximum serum concentration (Tmax) of 13±8 hours, a mean elimination half-life (T½) 
of 22±8 hours and a mean clearance rate of 36±12 ml/min. No patients from Arm II were included in 
the  analysis  because  of  the  intolerance  to  intravenous  Thyrogen.  Thyrogen  was  well  tolerated  when 
delivered IM. 
Clinical efficacy  
Studies: TSH91-0601, TSH92-0601 and TSH95-0101 
The 3 studies: TSH91-0601, TSH92-0601 and TSH95-0101 had a similar design to evaluate the within-
patient  comparison  of  131I  imaging  and  Tg  testing  following  Thyrogen  stimulation  while  continuing 
THST (referred to as Thyrogen phase) and after THST withdrawal (referred to as Hypothyroid phase). 
Each  study also compared  signs  and symptoms  while patients were  clinically euthyroid on Thyrogen 
with  the  status  after  THST  withdrawal.  Placebo  control  groups  were  not  used  because  of  ethical 
considerations regarding modality of testing and each patient served as his own control. 
Efficacy  endpoints  were  within-patient  comparisons  of  131I  uptake  observed  on  whole  body  scans 
(WBS)  following  Thyrogen  stimulation  and  THST  withdrawal  with  measurement  of  Thyrogen  and 
endogenous  TSH-stimulated  Tg  release  as  well  as  comparison  of  signs  and  symptoms  during  the 
Thyrogen  and  Hypothyroid  phase.  WBS  was  performed  48-72  hours  after  a  diagnostic  dose  of  2-4 
mCi 131I. 
A  disease  staging  system  was  used  to  classify  131I  uptake.  WBS  were  evaluated  by  Independent 
Reviewers (IR) who were blinded to the sequence of the scans. In addition to the IR evaluation each 
Principal Investigator (PI) evaluated the scans in an unblinded manner. The unblinded results were not 
used for study analyses. 
All  clinical  studies  employed  within-patient  comparisons  of  hypothyroid  signs  and  symptoms  using 
the Billewicz Scale. Quality of Life assessment was made using the Profile of Mood States (POMS) 
and  SF-36,  a  patient  self-administered  scale.  The  Wilcoxon  Signed  Rank  test  was  used  to  compare 
symptoms between baseline and either Thyrogen or Hypothyroid phase within each treatment arm and 
the Mann-Whitney test was used for between arm comparison. 
Two  populations were defined for  use in the  efficacy analyses: Intention-to-Treat (ITT) and Efficacy 
Evaluable Population (EEP). ITT included all patients who were randomised and who had a baseline 
and at least one efficacy evaluation after receiving at least one injection of Thyrogen. All analyses were 
performed on the appropriate ITT population. EEP was used in the analysis of the Uptake classification 
(within  patient  comparison  of  scans)  and  Uptake  classification  (between  dosing  regimen  arm 
comparison).  EEP  included  all  patients  enrolled  except  those  who  failed  to  meet  the  criteria  for 
inclusion  and exclusion,  had  inappropriate TSH levels  and scan  pairs review  or did  not complete the 
study.  The  two-tailed  Fisher’s  Exact  test  was  utilised  to  test  whether  discordance  favoured  the 
Thyrogen or Hypothyroid phase. 
5/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose response studies and main clinical studies 
Study TSH91-0601 – safety and dose ranging 
This was a multi-centre open label dose ranging study to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy 
of  Thyrogen  in    19  adults  (≥  18  years)  with  well  differentiated  thyroid  cancer  who  had  undergone 
near-total  or  sub-total  thyroidectomy  and  who  were  being  scanned  prior  to  consideration  for  131I 
ablation. 
Seven IM dosing regimens were evaluated, of which three were effective in stimulating 131I uptake and 
retention: administration of a single injection of 0.9 mg, two injections of 0.9 mg 24 hours apart or a 
single injection  of 1.8  mg. Twelve  patients  had concordant Thyrogen and  Hypothyroid Phase scans. 
Four  patients  had  Thyrogen  scans  rated  better  than  Hypothyroid  phase  scans  (3  showed  additional 
sites  of  uptake,  1  had  a  better  visual  scan).  In  3  patients  the  Hypothyroid  phase  scan  visualised  one 
additional focus.   
The  efficacy  of  Thyrogen  in  stimulating  131I  uptake  into  residual  and  metastatic  thyroid  tissue  was 
demonstrated in this study. A Thyrogen dosing regimen of 0.9 mg administered in two IM injections 
24 hours apart was selected for further investigation in the Phase III studies because it could provide 
prolonged  TSH  stimulation,  which  is  an  important  factor  in  stimulating  uptake  in  patients  with 
metastatic cancer. It was also well tolerated. 
Study TSH92-0601  
This was a multi-centre open label, single arm safety and efficacy study. 
A  total  of  152  patients  with  well-differentiated  thyroid  cancer  were  enrolled  and  treated  with  2 
injections  of  0.9  mg  of  Thyrogen  24  hours  apart.  Nineteen  percent  of  patients  were  enrolled  in  the 
study after a  recent thyroidectomy prior to ablation  and  81%  as  part  of the follow-up  monitoring  of 
their  thyroid  cancer.  There  was  scan  concordance  in  116/138  of  the  Intent-to-treat  (ITT)  patients 
(84.1%)  and  discordance  in  22/138  patients  (15.9%).  When  discordant,  the  prevalence  of  more 
sensitive  Hypothyroid  phase  scans  (n=19)  was  significantly  greater  than  the  prevalence  of  more 
sensitive  Thyrogen  phase  scans  (n=3)  (p<0.0001).  Scan  concordance  was  not  influenced  by  a 
significant  number  of  concordant  negative  scans.  Sixty-five  patients  had  a  positive  WBS  following 
either  THST  withdrawal  or  Thyrogen  administration.  Scan  concordance  in  this  group  was  44/65 
(67.7%). 
In  conclusion,  the  Thyrogen  scan  was  equivalent  to  or  superior  to  the  Hypothyroid  phase  scan  in 
86.2% of patients while the Hypothyroid phase scan was equivalent or superior to the Thyrogen scan 
in 97.8% (p<0.001). While equivalence/superiority was somewhat greater with the Hypothyroid phase 
scan, using Thyrogen the patient would not be rendered hypothyroid. The increased clearance of 131I in 
the euthyroid state may have affected the quality of the WBS during the Thyrogen phase. 
Tg  testing:  in  13  patients  who  had  thyroid  cancer  confirmed  by  a  WBS  conducted  after  the  patient 
received  a  therapeutic  dose  of  131I  the  Tg  tests  performed  at  baseline  during  THST  was  falsely 
negative (<3ng/ml) in 6 patients. Tg testing after stimulation with Thyrogen produced true positives in 
only 3 out of these 6 patients. This evaluation of Tg testing must be interpreted with caution because 
of  the  small  number  of  patients  and  the  fact  that  a  suboptimal  timepoint  was  used  to  measure  Tg 
levels. 
Hypothyroid symptoms: for all the items of the Billewicz scale, and on the POMS scale, significant 
paired differences (p<0.05) favouring Thyrogen was demonstrated. 
Study TSH95-0101 
This was a multi-centre open label randomised 2-arm parallel study. 
Two  dosing  regimens  were  evaluated.  A  total  of  254  patients  with  well-differentiated  cancer  were 
enrolled  in  this  study  and  229  patients  were  treated  with  Thyrogen  and  randomised  in  one  of  the  2 
dosing regimens: administration of 2 injections of 0.9 mg 24 hours apart (arm I) or 3 injections of 0.9 
mg 72 hours apart (arm II). 
17%  of  the  patients  were  enrolled  after  a  recent  thyroidectomy  prior  to  ablation  and  83%  were 
enrolled as part of the ongoing monitoring of their thyroid cancer. The latter included a subgroup of 49 
6/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
patients  (19  in  Arm  I  and  30  in  Arm  II)  who  received  therapy  for  metastatic  cancer  confirmed  by 
either  a  Hypothyroid  phase  Tg  value  of  10  ng/ml  in  a  successfully  radioablated  patient,  surgical 
resection  of  metastatic  tissue  or  a  positive  Hypothyroid  phase  of  post-therapy  scan.  Arm  II  patients 
had a bigger proportion of patients over 65 years (24% versus 8%) and a higher proportional number 
of patients with positive diagnostic scans and evidence of metastatic disease. 
In conclusion, the Thyrogen phase scan was equivalent to or superior to the Hypothyroid phase scan in 
up to 92.5% of patients. The Hypothyroid phase scan was equivalent to or superior to the Thyrogen 
phase  scan  in  up  to  97%  of  the  patients.  Two-  and  three-dose  treatment  groups  did  not  differ 
significantly and there was no significant difference between Thyrogen and Hypothyroid phase scans. 
A combination of Thyrogen-stimulated WBS and Tg assays detected the presence of thyroid remnant 
or cancer in 12/13 patients who had discordant WBS favouring the Hypothyroid phase. 
As  measured  by  the  Billewicz  Scale,  significant  (p<0.05)  paired  differences  were  observed  for 
hypothyroid  signs  and  symptoms  between  the  Thyrogen  and  Hypothyroid  Phases.  As  a  secondary 
objective,  data  on  quality  of  life  (QOL  Concept  SF  36)  were  collected,  and  showed  differences  in 
favour  of  Thyrogen  on  most  items  (physical  functioning,  role-physical,  bodily  pain,  role-emotional, 
mental  health,  standardised  mental  component  scale,  standardised  physical  component  scale).  No 
significant differences could be shown on general health, vitality and social functioning. 
Conclusion on efficacy 
The number of studies performed is small. However, thyroid carcinoma is an uncommon disease and 
maximum information has been gained from the studies performed. It would have  been preferable in 
the  second  Phase  III  study  TSH95-0101  if  all  patients  had  received  the  proposed  2-dose  regimen. 
Nevertheless sufficient information was gained. 
The  initially sought indication was use  with radioiodine imaging  and/or serum Tg testing undertaken 
for  the  detection  of  thyroid  remnants  and  well-differentiated  thyroid  cancer  in  post-thyroidectomy 
patients  maintained  on  hormone  suppression  therapy.  However  the  CPMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
sensitivity and specificity of the measurement of Tg (Tg) alone is too low to be helpful in the follow up 
of thyroid cancer patients. The combination of WBS and Tg testing improves the detection of remnants 
or residual thyroid cancer and gives the comparable results with WBS after THST withdrawal. 
A statement on greater sensitivity of Tg (Tg) testing on Thyrogen than on thyroid hormone suppression 
therapy (THST) has been included in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
It can be concluded that: 
• 
• 
The combination of Thyrogen-stimulated Tg and WBS is for the most part comparable to THST 
withdrawal in detecting thyroid remnants and cancer. 
There  is  a  general  absence  of  hypothyroid  signs  and  symptoms  and  better  Quality  of  Life 
following Thyrogen. 
Clinical safety 
Studies: TSH91-0601, TSH92-0601 and TSH95-0101 (as for clinical efficacy) 
Safety  endpoints  for  the  trials  included  vital  signs,  haematological  and  clinical  chemistry  testing  and 
testing for the development of antibodies against Thyrogen. The Safety population was defined as all 
patients who enrolled in the study and received at least one injection of Thyrogen. 
Headache  was experienced  by 37/419  patients  (8.8%).  Two  episodes of  headache were  described  as 
severe,  one  of  which  resolved  in  2  hours,  the  other  resolved  over  6  days.  There  was  apparently  no 
correlation between the occurrence or the severity of headache and the serum level of TSH. One death, 
due to pulmonary embolism and thought to be unrelated to Thyrogen administration, occurred during 
the clinical trials.. 
In  general  Thyrogen  was  well  tolerated.  Asthenia,  dizziness,  paresthesia,  pain,  fever,  chills  and  flu 
symptoms occurred in less than 5% of 419 patients. A few patients reported symptoms at the injection 
site  consisting  of  pain,  pruritus  and  maculopapular  rash.  The  most  common  adverse  events 
experienced by more than 5% of the patients were nausea and headache. Nausea was experienced by 
53/419 (12.6%) and was more common in the 2-dose regimen compared to the 3-dose regimen. Two 
7/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
patients experienced pain at the site of metastatic disease. This pain settled spontaneously. Intravenous 
administration was poorly tolerated and should be avoided. 
At the time of submission of the marketing application, only 27 patients had received two courses of 
Thyrogen.  While  none  of  these  have  developed  antibodies,  the  possibility  of  antibody  development 
with  multiple  courses  cannot  be  excluded.  The  Company  has  committed  to  continue  collecting 
antibody  data  during  marketing,  and  to  test  for  specific  antibodies  all  patients  who  experience  a 
reaction suggestive of an immune-mediated aetiology. 
Finally, there is a theoretical possibility that Thyrogen, like thyroid hormone withdrawal, may lead to 
stimulated tumour growth. However,  any changes in tumour size reportedly seen with Thyrogen are 
more likely to be due to oedematous or haemorrhagic changes. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The data provided to show efficacy - even bearing in mind the limitations due to the small population 
explored, as this is a rare disease - are sufficient to prove adequacy for use with radioiodine imaging 
together  with  serum  Tg  testing  for  the  detection  of  thyroid  remnants  and  well-differentiated  thyroid 
cancer in post-thyroidectomy patients maintained on hormone suppression therapy. 
The use of Thyrogen avoids the hypothyroidism symptoms which occur during withdrawal of THST, 
without interfering with the accuracy of radioiodine imaging. 
The safety database, although limited, shows good tolerability. 
The risk benefit ratio is considered to be favourable in light of the clinical findings. 
Conclusion 
The Company has provided adequate data to support a Marketing Authorisation for Thyrogen in light 
of the current scientific knowledge.  
On the basis of the above considerations, quality, safety and efficacy have been demonstrated in the 
indication of use with radioiodine imaging together with serum Tg testing undertaken for the detection 
of thyroid remnants and well-differentiated thyroid cancer in post-thyroidectomy patients maintained 
on THST. 
The  Committee  for  Proprietary  Medicinal  Products  recommends  the  granting  of  a  Marketing 
Authorisation for Thyrogen, subject to the pharmaceutical biological follow-up measures undertaken 
by the Company. 
The approved draft Summary of Product Characteristics, Patient Information Leaflet and labelling are 
annexed to the Committee opinion. 
6. 
Extension of the indication to enable the use of the Thyrogen with or without radioiodine 
imaging 
Rationale 
Recent  publications  have  shown  that  rhTSH-stimulated  Tg  measurement  is  sufficiently  sensitive  to 
identify  residual  disease  in  patients  who  have  no  clinical  evidence  of  residual  disease  and  whose 
serum  Tg  levels  are  undetectable  during  suppression  therapy.  In  addition  to  rhTSH  stimulated  Tg 
measurements  used  in  combination  with  a  WBS,  rhTSH-stimulated  Tg  measurements  could  also  be 
applied as a first screening test in order to determine further steps on follow-up and/or treatments. 
The proposed change, whilst reflecting current medical practice, harmonises the European indication 
with that approved in other countries - Thyrogen is authorised in the USA, Puerto Rico, Brazil, Israel 
and Canada as an adjunctive diagnostic tool for serum Tg testing with or without radioiodine imaging 
in  the  follow-up  of  patients  with  well-differentiated  thyroid  cancer.  Additionally,  this  change  will 
minimise exposure to isotopes and reduce the costs of follow-up protocols.  
8/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical aspects 
Serum Tg measurement and WBS on withdrawal of THST has been seen as the gold standard for the 
follow-up  of  differentiated  thyroid  cancer  patients  after  thyroidectomy  and  remnant  ablation. 
However,  with  the  advent  of  Thyrogen,  diagnostic  studies  can  be  carried  out  without  withdrawal  of 
THST.  Recently  the  possibility  was  explored  that  a  rhTSH-stimulated  Tg  test  alone  might  be 
sufficiently  sensitive  to  detect  residual  thyroid  carcinoma  in  thyroid  cancer  patients  with  no  clinical 
evidence  of  disease  following  total  thyroidectomy  and  radioiodine  ablation.  The  negative  predictive 
value and adequacy of a rhTSH-stimulated Tg ≤ 2ng/ml for follow-up of low risk patients (those with 
prior  negative  WBS,  without  elevated  Tg  levels  on  suppression  therapy  and  without  clinical  or 
histological evidence of  metastatic disease) has also been evaluated. It is important to be aware that 
the  presence  of  Tg  autoantibodies  can  be expected  in 18-40%  of  patients  with  differentiated thyroid 
cancer, and may cause false negative serum Tg measurements. A number of clinical studies showing 
that  this  is  feasible  have  been  published.  Following  is  a  summary  of  such  publications;  all  relate  to 
patients without anti-Tg antibodies with one exception. 
Haugen BR, Pacini F, Reiners C et al. A comparison of recombinant human thyrotropin and thyroid 
hormone withdrawal for the detection of thyroid remnant or cancer. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 1999; 
84 (11):3877-3885. 
Two  hundred  and  twenty  patients  (141  of  whom  had  evaluable  serum  Tg  levels)  undergoing 
surveillance for recurrent thyroid cancer underwent Tg testing and WBS after stimulation by rhTSH. 
Subsequently, thyroid hormone withdrawal was performed. Thirty patients had metastatic disease, as 
detected  by  withdrawal  WBS.  A  Tg  ≥2  ng/ml  was  detectable  in  30/30  patients  after  both  rhTSH 
stimulation and withdrawal. The data indicated that a stimulated Tg level ≥2 ng/ml is a sensitive test 
for metastases. 
Pacini F, Molinaro E, Lippi F, Castagna MG, Agate L, Ceccarelli C, Taddei D, Elisei R, Capezzone 
M, Pinchera A.  Prediction of disease status by recombinant human TSH-stimulated serum Tg in the 
postsurgical follow-up of differentiated thyroid carcinoma. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2001 
Dec;86(12):5686-90. 
A prospective crossover study evaluated 72 patients with treated differentiated thyroid cancer and an 
undetectable Tg on THST. Each patient had a rhTSH-stimulated Tg test on THST followed by a WBS 
and Tg test on THST withdrawal. Using a cut-off Tg level of 1.0 ng/ml, the rhTSH-stimulated Tg test 
was able to detect all 19 cases with local or distant metastases, thus achieving a positive predictive 
value of 100%.  
Robbins RJ, Thomas Chon J, Fleisher M, Larson SM, Tuttle RM. Is the serum Thyroglobulin response 
to recombinant human thyrotropin sufficient, by itself, to monitor for residual thyroid carcinoma? 
J.Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 2002; 87:3242-3247 
In  a  retrospective  study  366  thyroid  cancer  patients  underwent  routine  follow-up  with  rhTSH-
stimulated  WBS  and  Tg  test.  It  was  found  that  76%  of  patients  with  a  stimulated  Tg  >2  ng/ml  and 
13%  of  patients  with  a  stimulated  Tg  ≤2  ng/ml  had  evidence  of  residual  disease.  The  outcome  was 
also analysed for a subset of 109 low risk patients, which excluded patients with elevated Tg levels on 
THST  suppression,  known  metastatic  disease,  and  clinical  or  histological  evidence  of  metastatic 
disease.  In  the  low-risk  population  7  patients  with  residual  disease  in  the  regional  lymph  nodes 
(detectable  by ultrasound  scanning)  had a  Tg ≤2  ng/ml. In this  study the patient population  was  not 
adequately  assessed  for  the  presence  of  Tg  autoantibodies  and  it  is  unknown  whether  the  low 
stimulated  Tg  level  in  these  patients  is  a  consequence  of  this.  In  addition,  all  7  patients  had  a  prior 
positive diagnostic scan. Hence, the negative predictive value of a rhTSH-stimulated Tg ≤ 2ng/ml was 
100% if a prior negative WBS had been included in the definition of the low risk subset. 
Mazzaferri EL, Kloos RT.  Is Diagnostic Iodine-131 Scanning with Recombinant Human TSH Useful 
in the Follow-Up of Differentiated Thyroid Cancer after Thyroid Ablation? J Clin Endocrinol Metab 
2002; 87:1490-1498. 
9/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  a  second  retrospective  study  107  patients  with  differentiated  thyroid  cancer  underwent  rhTSH-
stimulated  Tg  and  WBS  testing  10  months  to  35  years  after  initial  thyroidectomy  and  131I  ablation. 
About 50% of these patients were at high risk of tumour recurrence. Eighty-seven patients had serum 
Tg <2  ng/ml, none  of whom  had a  positive  WBS. Eleven  patients  with  rhTSH-stimulated  serum  Tg 
levels  >2  ng/ml  were  found  to  have  a  persistent  tumour  but  the  site  was  not  identified  by  rhTSH-
stimulated  WBS.  In  this  study  a  rhTSH-stimulated  serum  Tg  with  a  cut-off  level  of  2  ng/ml  had  a 
sensitivity of 100%, a negative predictive value of 100% and a false positive rate of 9%.  
Wartofsky L.  Management of low-risk well-differentiated thyroid cancer based only on thyroglobulin 
measurement after recombinant human thyrotropin.  Thyroid 2002; 12:583-590. 
A  further  retrospective  study  was  reported  in  300  patients  apparently  at  low  risk  of  recurrence  of 
thyroid cancer (patients had undergone near-total or total thyroidectomy and remnant ablation between 
1 and 10 years before enrolment). Patients with distant metastases, or suspected residual disease were 
excluded. As expected, patients who initially had a more advanced stage of disease were more likely 
to display elevations in rhTSH-stimulated Tg, with one third of those with stage III disease displaying 
elevations  in  Tg  of  at  least  2  ng/ml.  A  cut-off  value  of  1ng/ml  in  Tg  in  response  to  rhTSH  was 
considered as the trigger point for further investigation. 
Pacini F, Capezzone M, Elisei R, Ceccarelli C, Taddei D, and Pinchera A; Diagnostic 131-Iodine 
whole-body scan may be avoided in thyroid cancer patients who have undetectable stimulated serum 
Tg levels after initial treatment. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 2002; 87 (4): 1499-1501. 
and 
Cailleux AF, Baudin E, Travagli JP, Ricard M and Schlumberger M.  Is diagnostic Iodine-131 
scanning useful after total thyroid ablation for differentiated thyroid cancer? J. Clin. Endocrinol. 
Metab. 2000; 85 (1):175-178. 
Two retrospective studies were performed on the utility of a diagnostic 131I WBS in patients with well-
differentiated thyroid cancer. The data show that in this fairly large series of >600 patients, diagnostic 
WBS has not given information that could influence strategy, and might be avoided in patients with 
undetectable Tg after TSH stimulation.  
Haugen BR, Ridgway EC, McLaughlin B, McDermott MT.  Clinical comparison of whole-body 
radioiodine scan and serum thyroglobulin after stimulation with recombinant human TSH.  Thyroid 
2002; 12:37-43. 
A recent study has retrospectively compared the sensitivity in detecting metastatic disease of rhTSH-
stimulated  Tg  test  with  that  of  rhTSH-stimulated  WBS  with  or  without  Tg  test.  Of  the  83  patients 
previously treated with thyroidectomy and ablation, 10 had a positive WBS. Using cut-off values of 2 
ng/ml and 5 ng/ml, 25 patients and 13 patients were Tg positive, respectively. Nine patients combined 
a positive Tg (cut-off 5 ng/ml) with a negative WBS. After further evaluation, 6 of these patients had 
metastatic  disease.  The  authors  concluded  that  rhTSH-stimulated  WBS  is  of  limited  utility  in  many 
patients  with  differentiated  thyroid  cancer  however  there  was  a  high  false  positivity  for  rhTSH-
stimulated Tg testing. 
Torlontano M., Crocetti U., D’Aloiso L., Bonfitto N., Di Giogio A., Modoni S., Valle G., Fruscinte V., 
Bisceglia M., Filetti S., Schlumberger M., Trischitta V. Serum thyroglobulin and 131I whole body scan 
after  recombinant  human  TSH  stimulation  in  the  follow-up  of  low-risk  patients  with  differentiated 
thyroid  cancer.  The  role  for  neck  ultrasonography.  Eur.  J.  Endocrinol.  2002;  accepted  for 
publication. 
Torlontano et al. carried out a rhTSH-stimulated Tg test + WBS and a neck ultrasound examination in 
99  patients  with  no  uptake  outside  the  thyroid  bed  on  the  prior  post-ablative  WBS.  All  patients 
underwent  the  study  at  the  same  period  of  time  within  a  year  after  initial  treatment.  In  6  patients 
rhTSH-stimulated  Tg  was  >5  ng/ml,  and  in  15  patients  it  was  >1  ng/ml.  The  diagnostic  WBS  was 
negative  in  all  cases.  The  ultrasound  examination  identified  lymph  node  metastases  in  4/6  patients 
with a Tg >5 ng/ml, in 2/15 patients with a Tg between 1 and 5 ng/ml, and in 2/78 patients with a Tg 
<1 ng/ml. 
10/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wartofsky J.  Using Baseline and Recombinant Human TSH-Stimulated Tg Measurements to Manage 
Thyroid Cancer without Diagnostic 131I Scanning.  J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2002; 87:1486-1489. 
Recently, an editorial by Wartofsky has provided the following recommendation regarding the use of 
rhTSH-stimulated Tg tests to manage thyroid cancer without diagnostic WBS.  
• 
• 
• 
diagnostic scanning need not be done when serum Tg on THST is clearly elevated (>2 ng/ml). 
In this case therapy and a post-treatment scan should be considered.  
diagnostic scanning may be eliminated in those patients with serum Tg on THST < 0.5ng/ml, 
after initial therapy.  
patients  with  no clinical evidence  of  disease who have a  Tg  on THST of  0.5-2 ng/ml  may be 
followed-up with a rhTSH-stimulated Tg in combination with ultrasound scanning of the neck. 
If the stimulated Tg is negative and the neck ultrasound is normal these patients may safely be 
followed by monitoring Tg levels on THST, clinical examination, and ultrasound. 
Discussion and conclusions 
There are some limitations to the use of Tg measurements, since anti-Tg antibodies can interfere with 
accurate  serum  Tg  measurements  and  Tg  results  from  different  assays  and  laboratories  may  not  be 
readily comparable. In addition repeated  131I treatments may cause some thyroid cancer cells to lose 
the  ability  to  excrete  Tg.  Notwithstanding  these  limitations,  prospective  and  retrospective  studies 
indicate  that  a  rhTSH-stimulated  Tg  test  has  adequate  sensitivity  to  detect  residual  or  metastatic 
disease, and that WBS does not add significant information in most patients. 
References summarise the results of previous studies investigating the diagnostic value of rhTSH Tg 
and/or  scans  in  post-thyroidectomy  patients  with  well-differentiated  thyroid  cancer  and  proposes  an 
algorithmic approach to the management of such patients based on baseline Tg levels (on suppression) 
and  rhTSH  stimulated  Tg.  This  algorithm  refers  to  low  risk  patients  with  well-differentiated  thyroid 
carcinoma  only  and  suggests  that  patients  with  baseline  Tg  <  0.5  ng/ml  and  rhTSH-stimulated 
increase in Tg of < 1 ng/ml may be followed by rhTSH alone. However, for patients with baseline Tg 
of 0.5-2 ng/ml an additional scan is proposed. Since there is no consensus on this issue and 131I scan is 
still considered the diagnostic gold standard, the following statement has been included in section 4.1 
of the SPC: 
Low  risk  patients  with  well-differentiated  thyroid  carcinoma  who  have  undetectable  Tg  levels  on 
THST  and  no  rh  TSH-stimulated  increase  of  Tg  levels  may  be  followed-up  by  assaying  rhTSH-
stimulated Tg levels. 
11/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
