ANNEX 1  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Thyrogen 0.9 mg powder for solution for injection 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial of Thyrogen contains a nominal value of 0.9 mg thyrotropin alfa. Following reconstitution, each 
vial of Thyrogen contains 0.9 mg of thyrotropin alfa in 1.0 ml.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for solution for injection. 
White to off-white lyophilised powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Thyrogen is indicated for use with serum thyroglobulin (Tg) testing with or without radioiodine imaging 
for the detection of thyroid remnants and well-differentiated thyroid cancer in post-thyroidectomy patients 
maintained on hormone suppression therapy (THST). 
Low risk patients with well-differentiated thyroid carcinoma who have undetectable serum Tg levels on 
THST and no rh (recombinant human) TSH-stimulated increase of Tg levels may be followed-up by 
assaying rhTSH-stimulated Tg levels. 
Thyrogen is indicated for pre-therapeutic stimulation in combination with a range of 30 mCi (1.1 GBq) to 
100 mCi (3.7 GBq) radioiodine for ablation of thyroid tissue remnants in patients who have undergone a 
near-total or total thyroidectomy for well-differentiated thyroid cancer and who do not have evidence of 
distant metastatic thyroid cancer (see section 4.4). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy should be supervised by physicians with expertise in thyroid cancer. 
Posology 
The recommended dose regimen is two doses of 0.9 mg thyrotropin alfa administered at a 24-hour interval 
by intramuscular injection only. 
Paediatric population 
Due to a lack of data on the use of Thyrogen in children, Thyrogen should be given to children only in 
exceptional circumstances. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly  
Results from controlled trials indicate no difference in the safety and efficacy of Thyrogen between adult 
patients less than 65 years and those greater than 65 years of age, when Thyrogen is used for diagnostic 
purposes. 
No dose adjustment is necessary in elderly (see section 4.4). 
Patients with renal/hepatic impairment 
Information from post marketing surveillance, as well as published information, suggests that elimination 
of Thyrogen is significantly slower in dialysis-dependent end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients, 
resulting in prolonged elevation of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels for several days after 
treatment. This may lead to increased risk of headache and nausea. There are no studies of alternative dose 
schedules of Thyrogen in patients with ESRD to guide dose reduction in this population. 
In patients with significant renal impairment the activity of radioiodine should be carefully selected by the 
nuclear medicine physician. 
The use of Thyrogen in patients with reduced liver function does not warrant special considerations.  
Method of administration 
After reconstitution with water for injection, 1.0 ml solution (0.9 mg thyrotropin alfa) is administered by 
intramuscular injection to the buttock. For instructions on reconstitution of the medicinal product before 
administration, see section 6.6. 
For radioiodine imaging or ablation, radioiodine administration should be given 24 hours following the 
final Thyrogen injection. Diagnostic scintigraphy should be performed 48 to 72 hours following 
radioiodine administration, whereas post-ablation scintigraphy may be delayed additional days to allow 
background activity to decline. 
For diagnostic follow-up serum thyroglobulin (Tg) testing, the serum sample should be obtained 72 hours 
after the final injection of Thyrogen. Use of Thyrogen with Tg testing in follow up of post-thyroidectomy 
well differentiated thyroid cancer patients should be in accordance with official guidelines. 
4.3  Contraindications 
•  Hypersensitivity to bovine or human thyroid stimulating hormone or to any of the excipients listed in 
section 6.1.  
•  Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Thyrogen should not be administered intravenously.  
When used as an alternative to thyroid hormone withdrawal, the combination of the whole-body 
scintigraphy (WBS) and Tg testing after Thyrogen administration assures the highest sensitivity for 
detection of thyroid remnants or cancer. False negative results may occur with Thyrogen. If a high index 
of suspicion for metastatic disease persists, a confirmatory withdrawal WBS and Tg testing should be 
considered. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The presence of Tg autoantibodies can be expected in 18-40% of patients with differentiated thyroid 
cancer and may cause false negative serum Tg measurements. Therefore, both TgAb and Tg assays are 
needed. 
Careful evaluation of benefit-risk relationships should be assessed for Thyrogen administration in high-
risk elderly patients who have heart disease (e.g. valvular heart disease, cardiomyopathy, coronary artery 
disease, and prior or current tachyarrhythmia including atrial fibrillation) and have not undergone 
thyroidectomy. 
Thyrogen is known to cause a transient but significant rise in serum thyroid hormone concentration when 
given to patients who have substantial thyroid tissue still in situ.  Therefore, careful evaluation of 
individual risk-benefit is necessary for patients with significant residual thyroid tissue.  
Effect on tumour growth and/or size  
In patients with thyroid cancer, several cases of stimulated tumour growth have been reported during 
withdrawal of thyroid hormones for diagnostic procedures which have been attributed to the associated 
prolonged elevation of TSH levels. 
There is a theoretical possibility that Thyrogen, like thyroid hormone withdrawal, may lead to stimulated 
tumour growth. In clinical trials with thyrotropin alfa, which produces a short-term increase in serum TSH 
levels, no case of tumour growth has been reported.  
Due to elevation of TSH levels after Thyrogen administration patients with metastatic thyroid cancer 
particularly in confined spaces such as the brain, spinal cord and orbit or disease infiltrating the neck, may 
experience local oedema or focal haemorrhage at the site of these metastases resulting in increased tumour 
size. This may lead to acute symptoms, which depend on the anatomical location of the tissue e.g. 
hemiplegia, hemiparesis, loss of vision have occurred in patients with CNS metastases. Laryngeal oedema, 
respiratory distress requiring tracheotomy, and pain at the site of metastasis have also been reported after 
Thyrogen administration. It is recommended that pre-treatment with corticosteroids be considered for 
patients in whom local tumour expansion may compromise vital anatomic structures. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per injection, i.e. essentially ‘sodium- 
free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Formal interaction studies between Thyrogen and other medicinal products have not been performed. In 
clinical trials, no interactions were observed between Thyrogen and the thyroid hormones triiodothyronine 
(T3) and thyroxine (T4) when administered concurrently. 
The use of Thyrogen allows for radioiodine imaging while patients are euthyroid on thyroid hormone 
suppression treatment. Data on radioiodine kinetics indicate that the clearance of radioiodine is 
approximately 50% greater while euthyroid than during the hypothyroid state when renal function is 
decreased, thus resulting in less radioiodine retention in the body at the time of imaging. This factor 
should be considered when selecting the activity of radioiodine for use in radioiodine imaging. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Thyrogen.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is not known whether Thyrogen can cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or 
whether Thyrogen can affect reproductive capacity. 
Thyrogen in combination with diagnostic radioiodine whole body scintigraphy is contra-indicated in 
pregnancy (see section 4.3), because of the consequent exposure of the foetus to a high dose of radioactive 
material.  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether thyrotropin alfa /metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the suckling 
child cannot be excluded. Thyrogen should not be used during breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
It is not known whether Thyrogen can affect fertility in humans. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Thyrogen may reduce the ability to drive or use machines, since dizziness and headaches have been 
reported. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are nausea and headache, occurring in approximately 
11%, and 6% of patients, respectively. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions mentioned in the table, combine adverse reactions in the six prospective clinical 
trials (N=481) and undesirable effects that have been reported to Sanofi after licensure of Thyrogen. 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The 
reporting rate is classified as very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data).  
MedDRA System 
Organ Class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Neoplasm benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (incl. 
cysts and polyps) 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorder 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Very  
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
influenza 
dizziness, headache 
ageusia, 
dysgeusia, 
paraesthesia 
neoplasm swelling, 
metastatic pain 
stroke, tremor  
palpitations 
flushing 
dyspnoea 
nausea 
vomiting 
diarrhoea 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA System 
Organ Class 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorder 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Very  
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
fatigue, asthenia 
urticaria, rash 
pruritus, 
hyperhidrosis 
neck pain, back 
pain 
influenza like 
illness, pyrexia, 
chills, feeling 
hot 
arthralgia, myalgia 
discomfort, pain, 
pruritus, rash and 
urticaria at the site of 
injection 
TSH decreased 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Very rare cases of hyperthyroidism or atrial fibrillation have been observed when Thyrogen 0.9 mg has 
been administered in patients with presence of either partial or entire thyroid gland.  
Manifestations of hypersensitivity have been reported uncommonly in both clinical and post-marketing 
settings. These reactions consisted of urticaria, rash, pruritus, flushing and respiratory signs and 
symptoms.  
In clinical trials involving 481 patients, no patients have developed antibodies to thyrotropin alfa either 
after single or repeated limited (27 patients) use of the product. It is not recommended to perform TSH 
assays after Thyrogen administration. The occurrence of antibodies which could interfere with 
endogenous TSH assays performed during regular follow-ups cannot be excluded. 
Enlargement of residual thyroid tissue or metastases can occur following treatment with Thyrogen. This 
may lead to acute symptoms, which depend on the anatomical location of the tissue. For example, 
hemiplegia, hemiparesis or loss of vision have occurred in patients with CNS metastases. Laryngeal 
oedema, respiratory distress requiring tracheotomy, and pain at the site of metastasis have also been 
reported after Thyrogen administration. It is recommended that pre-treatment with corticosteroids be 
considered for patients in whom local tumour expansion may compromise vital anatomic structures. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Data on exposure above the recommended dose is limited to clinical studies and a special treatment 
program.  Three patients in clinical trials and one patient in the special treatment program experienced 
symptoms after receiving Thyrogen doses higher than those recommended. Two patients had nausea after 
2.7 mg IM dose, and in one of these patients’ nausea was also accompanied by weakness, dizziness and 
headache.  The third patient experienced nausea, vomiting and hot flushes after 3.6 mg IM dose.  In the 
special treatment program, a 77-year-old patient with metastatic thyroid cancer who had not been 
thyroidectomised received 4 doses of Thyrogen 0.9 mg over 6 days, developed atrial fibrillation, cardiac 
decompensation and terminal myocardial infarction 2 days later.   
One additional patient enrolled in a clinical trial experienced symptoms after receiving Thyrogen 
intravenously.  This patient received 0.3 mg of Thyrogen as a single intravenous (IV) bolus and, 15 
minutes later experienced severe nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis, hypotension and tachycardia. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A suggested treatment in case of overdose would be the reestablishment of fluid balance and 
administration of an antiemetic may also be considered. 
5 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Pituitary and Hypothalamic Hormones and Analogues, Anterior Pituitary 
Lobe Hormones and Analogues. ATC code for thyrotropin alfa: H01AB01 
Mechanism of action 
Thyrotropin alfa (recombinant human thyroid stimulating hormone) is a heterodimeric glycoprotein 
produced by recombinant DNA technology. It is comprised of two non-covalently linked subunits. The 
cDNAs encode for an alpha subunit of 92 amino acid residues containing two N-linked glycosylation 
sites, and a beta subunit of 118 residues containing one N-linked glycosylation site. It has comparable 
biochemical properties to natural human Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH). Binding of thyrotropin alfa 
to TSH receptors on thyroid epithelial cells stimulates iodine uptake and organification, and synthesis and 
release of thyroglobulin, triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4). 
In patients with well-differentiated thyroid cancer, a near total or total thyroidectomy is performed. For 
optimal diagnosis of thyroid remnants or cancer via either radioiodine imaging or thyroglobulin testing 
and for radioiodine therapy of thyroid remnants, a high serum level of TSH is needed to stimulate either 
radioiodine uptake and/or thyroglobulin release. The standard approach to achieve elevated TSH levels 
has been to withdraw patients from thyroid hormone suppression therapy (THST), which usually causes 
patients to experience the signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism. With the use of Thyrogen, the TSH 
stimulation necessary for radioiodine uptake and thyroglobulin release is achieved while patients are 
maintained euthyroid on THST, thus avoiding the morbidity associated with hypothyroidism. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Diagnostic use  
The efficacy and safety of Thyrogen for use with radioiodine imaging together with serum thyroglobulin 
testing for the diagnosis of thyroid remnants and cancer was demonstrated in two studies. In one of the 
studies, two dose regimens were examined: 0.9 mg intramuscular every 24 hours for two doses (0.9 mg x 
2) and 0.9 mg intramuscular every 72 hours for three doses (0.9 mg x 3). Both dose regimens were 
effective and not statistically different from thyroid hormone withdrawal in stimulating radioiodine uptake 
for diagnostic imaging. Both dose regimens improved the sensitivity, accuracy and negative predictive 
value of Thyrogen-stimulated thyroglobulin alone or in combination with radioiodine imaging as 
compared to testing performed while patients remained on thyroid hormones.  
In clinical trials, for the detection of thyroid remnants or cancer in ablated patients using a thyroglobulin 
assay with a lower limit of detection of 0.5 ng/ml, Thyrogen-stimulated thyroglobulin levels of 3 ng/ml, 
2 ng/ml and 1 ng/ml corresponded with thyroglobulin levels after withdrawal of thyroid hormone of 
10 ng/ml, 5 ng/ml and 2 ng/ml, respectively. In these studies, the use of thyroglobulin testing on Thyrogen 
was found to be more sensitive than thyroglobulin testing on TSHT. Specifically in a Phase III study 
involving 164 patients the detection rate of tissue of thyroid origin after a Thyrogen thyroglobulin test 
ranged from 73-87%, whereas, by using thyroglobulin on TSHT it was 42-62% for the same cut-off values 
and comparable reference standards.  
Metastatic disease was confirmed by a post-treatment scan or by lymph node biopsy in 35 patients. 
Thyrogen-stimulated thyroglobulin levels were above 2 ng/ml in all 35 patients, whereas thyroglobulin on 
THST was above 2 ng/ml in 79% of these patients. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-therapeutic stimulation  
In a comparator study involving 60 evaluable patients, the rates of successful ablation of thyroid remnants 
with 100 mCi/3.7 GBq (± 10%) radioiodine in post-thyroidectomy patients with thyroid cancer, were 
comparable for patients treated after thyroid hormone withdrawal versus patients treated after Thyrogen 
administration. Patients studied were adults (>18 years), with newly diagnosed differentiated papillary or 
follicular thyroid carcinoma, including papillary-follicular variant, characterised, principally (54 of 60), as 
T1-T2, N0-N1, M0 (TNM classification). Success of remnant ablation was assessed with radioiodine 
imaging and with serum thyroglobulin testing at 8 ± 1 months after treatment. All 28 patients (100%) 
treated after withdrawal of THST and all 32 patients (100%) treated after Thyrogen administration had 
either no visible uptake of radioiodine in the thyroid bed or, if visible, thyroid bed uptake <0.1% of the 
administered activity of radioiodine. The success of thyroid remnant ablation also was assessed by the 
criterion of Thyrogen-stimulated serum Tg level < 2 ng/ml eight months after ablation, but only in patients 
who were negative for interfering anti-Tg antibodies. Using this Tg criterion, 18/21 patients (86%) and 
23/24 patients (96%) had thyroid remnants successfully ablated in the THST withdrawal group and the 
Thyrogen treatment group, respectively.  
Quality of life was significantly reduced following thyroid hormone withdrawal, but maintained following 
either dosage regimen of Thyrogen in both indications.  
A follow-up study was conducted on patients who previously completed the initial study, and data is 
available for 51 patients. The main objective of the follow-up study was to confirm the status of thyroid 
remnant ablation by using Thyrogen-stimulated radioiodine static neck imaging after a median follow-up 
of 3.7 years (range 3.4 to 4.4 years) following radioiodine ablation. Thyrogen-stimulated thyroglobulin 
testing was also performed.  
Patients were still considered to be successfully ablated if there was no visible thyroid bed uptake on the 
scan, or if visible, uptake was less than 0.1%. All patients considered ablated in the initial study were 
confirmed to be ablated in the follow-up study. In addition, no patient had a definitive recurrence during 
the 3.7 years of follow-up. Overall, 48/51 patients (94%) had no evidence of cancer recurrence, 1 patient 
had possible cancer recurrence (although it was not clear whether this patient had a true recurrence or 
persistent tumour from the regional disease noted at the start of the original study), and 2 patients could 
not be assessed. 
In summary, in the pivotal study and its follow-up study, Thyrogen was non-inferior to thyroid hormone 
withdrawal for elevation of TSH levels for pre-therapeutic stimulation in combination with radioiodine for 
post-surgical ablation of remnant thyroid tissue. 
Two large prospective randomised studies, the HiLo study (Mallick) and the ESTIMABL1 study 
(Schlumberger), compared methods of thyroid remnant ablation in patients with differentiated thyroid 
cancer who had been thyroidectomised. In both studies, patients were randomised to 1 of 4 treatment 
groups: Thyrogen + 30 mCi 131I, Thyrogen + 100 mCi 131I, thyroid hormone withdrawal + 30 mCi 131I, or 
thyroid hormone withdrawal + 100 mCi 131I, and patients were assessed about 8 months later. The HiLo 
study randomised 438 patients (tumour stages T1-T3, Nx, N0 and N1, M0) at 29 centres. As assessed by 
radioiodine imaging and stimulated Tg levels (n = 421), ablation success rates were approximately 86% in 
all four treatment groups. All 95% confidence intervals for the differences were within ±10 percentage 
points, indicating in particular non-inferiority of the low to the high radioiodine activity. Analyses of T3 
patients and N1 patients showed that these subgroups had equally good ablation success rates as did 
lower-risk patients. The ESTIMABL1 study randomised 752 patients with low-risk thyroid cancer 
(tumour stages pT1 < 1 cm and N1 or Nx, pT1 >1-2 cm and any N stage, or pT2 N0, all patients M0) at 24 
centres. Based on 684 evaluable patients, the overall ablation success rate assessed by neck ultrasounds 
and stimulated Tg levels was 92%, without any statistically significant difference among the four groups.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the ESTIMABL1 study, 726 (97%) of the original 752 patients were followed up for disease 
recurrence. The median follow-up was 5.4 years (0.5 to 9.2 years). 
The tables below provide long term follow up information for the ESTIMABL1 and HiLo studies 
Table 1. ESTIMABL1 study recurrence rates in patients who received low or high dose RAI and 
those who prepared with Thyrogen or THW 
Total number of patients with recurrence (5.4 years) 
Low activity RAI (1.1 GBq) 
High activity RAI (3.7 GBq) 
Thyrogen (N=374) 
7 (1,9%) 
5 (1,3%) 
2 (0,5%) 
THW (N=378) 
4 (1,1%) 
1 (0,3%) 
3 (0,8%) 
For the HiLo study, 434 (99%) of the original 438 patients were followed up for disease recurrence. The 
median follow-up was 6.5 years (4.5 to 7.6 years). 
Table 2. HiLo study recurrence rates in patients who received low or high dose activity RAI 
Low activity dose 
RAI (1.1 GBq) 
High activity dose RAI (3.7 GBq) 
Total number of patients with recurrence 
Recurrence rate (3 years) 
Recurrence rate (5 years) 
Recurrence rate (7 years) 
HR: 1.10 [95% CI 0.47 – 2.59]; p=0.83 
11 
1.5% 
2.1% 
5.9% 
10 
2.1% 
2.7% 
7.3% 
Table 3. HiLo study recurrence rates in patients who prepared for ablation with Thyrogen or 
Thyroid Hormone Withdrawal 
Thyrogen 
Thyroid Hormone Withdrawal (THW) 
Total number of patients with 
recurrence 
Recurrence rate (3 years) 
Recurrence rate (5 years) 
Recurrence rate (7 years) 
HR: 1.62 [95% CI 0.67 – 3.91], p=0.28 
13 
1.5% 
2.1% 
8.3% 
8 
2.1% 
2.7% 
5.0% 
The long-term follow-up data in ESTIMABL1 and HiLo confirmed similar outcomes for patients in all 
four treatment groups. 
In summary, these studies support the efficacy of low activity radioiodine plus thyrotropin alpha (with 
reduced radiation exposure). Thyrotropin alfa was non-inferior to thyroid hormone withdrawal for pre-
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
therapeutic stimulation in combination with radioiodine for post-surgical ablation of thyroid remnant 
tissue.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of Thyrogen were studied in patients with well-differentiated thyroid cancer 
following a single 0.9 mg intramuscular injection. After injection, the mean peak (Cmax) level obtained 
was 116 ± 38 mU/l and occurred approximately 13 ± 8 hours after administration. The elimination half-
life was 22 ± 9 hours. The major elimination route of thyrotropin alfa is believed to be renal and to a lesser 
extent hepatic. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data are limited but reveal no special hazard for humans from use of Thyrogen. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Mannitol 
Sodium phosphate monobasic, monohydrate 
Sodium phosphate dibasic, heptahydrate 
Sodium chloride 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be administered as a mixture with 
other medicinal products in the same injection.  
6.3  Shelf-life 
Unopened vials 
3 years. 
Shelf-life after reconstitution 
It is recommended that the Thyrogen solution be injected within three hours. 
The reconstituted solution can be stored for up to 24 hours in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C) under protection 
from light, while avoiding microbial contamination. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Clear Type I glass 5 ml vials. The closure consists of a siliconised butyl stopper with a tamper proof 
flip-off cap. Each vial contains 1.1 mg thyrotropin alfa. After reconstitution with 1.2 ml water for 
injection, 1.0 ml of solution (equal to 0.9 mg Thyrogen) is withdrawn and administered to the patient.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To provide sufficient volume to allow accurate dispensing, each vial of Thyrogen is formulated to contain 
an overfill of 0.2 ml. 
Package size: one or two vials per carton.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The powder for solution for injection has to be reconstituted with water for injection. Only one vial of 
Thyrogen is required per injection. Each vial of Thyrogen is for single use only. 
Use aseptic technique 
Add 1.2 ml water for injection to the Thyrogen powder in the vial. Swirl the contents of the vial gently 
until all material is dissolved. Do not shake the solution. When the powder is dissolved the total volume in 
the vial is 1.2 ml. The pH of the Thyrogen solution is approximately 7.0. 
Visually inspect the Thyrogen solution in the vial for foreign particles and discoloration. The Thyrogen 
solution should be a clear, colourless solution. Do not use vials exhibiting foreign particles, cloudiness or 
discoloration. 
Withdraw 1.0 ml of the Thyrogen solution from the product vial. This equals 0.9 mg thyrotropin alfa to be 
injected. 
Thyrogen does not contain preservatives. Dispose of any unused solution immediately. No special 
requirements for disposal. 
The Thyrogen solution should be injected within three hours, however the Thyrogen solution will stay 
chemically stable for up to 24 hours, if kept in a refrigerator (between 2°C and 8°C). It is important to note 
that the microbiological safety depends on the aseptic conditions during the preparation of the solution. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi B.V., Paasheuvelweg 25, 1105 BP Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/99/122/001 
EU/1/99/122/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 9 March 2000 
Date of last renewal: 9 March 2010 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
12 
 
 
ANNEX II  
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE  
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS 
RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Genzyme Corporation. 
45, 51, 68, 74, 76 and 80 New York Avenue 
Framingham, MA 01701- 
United States 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Genzyme Ireland Limited 
IDA Industrial Park 
Old Kilmeaden Road 
Waterford 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 
section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE 
OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any 
agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON - PACK OF 1 VIAL  
OUTER CARTON - PACK OF 2 VIALS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
THYROGEN 0.9 mg powder for solution for injection. 
Thyrotropin alfa  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 0.9 mg/ml of thyrotropin alfa when reconstituted with 1.2 ml water for injection. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: 
Mannitol 
Sodium phosphate monobasic, monohydrate 
Sodium phosphate dibasic, heptahydrate 
Sodium chloride 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 vial of powder for solution for injection.  
2 vials of powder for solution for injection equal to 2 doses to be administered at a 24-hour interval. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intramuscular injection only. 
Only 1 ml should be withdrawn equal to 0.9 mg of thyrotropin alfa. 
Administration within 3 hours after reconstitution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Keep the vial in the outer carton. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
For single use only.  
Any unused solution should be discarded. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/122/001 
EU/1/99/122/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE  
Justification for not including Braille accepted.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
<PC: 
SN: 
NN:> 
19 
 
  
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
THYROGEN 0.9 mg powder for solution for injection. 
thyrotropin alfa 
Intramuscular use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Sanofi B.V.- NL 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Thyrogen 0.9 mg powder for solution for injection 
Thyrotropin alfa 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you experience any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1. What Thyrogen is and what it is used for 
2. What you need to know before you use Thyrogen 
3. How to use Thyrogen 
4. Possible side effects 
5. How to store Thyrogen 
6. Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Thyrogen is and what it is used for 
Thyrogen contains the active substance thyrotropin alfa. Thyrogen is a human thyroid stimulating hormone 
(TSH) manufactured using biotechnology processes. 
Thyrogen is used to detect certain types of thyroid cancer in patients who have had their thyroid gland removed 
and who are taking thyroid hormones. One of the effects is that it stimulates any remaining thyroid tissue to take 
up iodine which is important for radioiodine imaging. It also stimulates the production of thyroglobulin and 
thyroid hormones if there is any thyroid tissue left. These hormones can be measured in your blood. 
Thyrogen is also used with radioiodine treatment to eliminate (ablate) the thyroid tissue left over after surgical 
removal of the thyroid gland (remnant) in patients who do not have secondary cancer growths (metastases) and 
who are taking thyroid hormone. 
2. 
What you need to know before you use Thyrogen 
Do not use Thyrogen: 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to bovine or human thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you are pregnant. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Thyrogen 
• 
• 
if you have kidney disease that requires dialysis and he will decide how much Thyrogen to give to you 
as you may have more chance of experiencing headache and nausea. 
if you have reduced kidney function and he will decide how much radioiodine to give you. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
if you have reduced liver function; you should still be able to receive Thyrogen. 
Effect on tumour growth 
In patients with thyroid cancer, tumour growth has been reported during withdrawal of thyroid hormones for 
diagnostic procedures. This was thought to be related to the elevated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels 
over a longer period. It is possible that Thyrogen may also cause tumour growth. In clinical trials this was not 
seen. 
Due to elevation of TSH levels after Thyrogen, patients with secondary cancer growths (metastases) can 
experience local swelling or bleeding at the site of these metastases which may become bigger. If the metastases 
are present in narrow spaces e.g. intracerebral (in the brain) or in the spinal cord, patients could experience 
symptoms which can occur quickly such as partial paralysis affecting one side of the body (hemiparesis), 
breathing problems or loss of vision.  
Your doctor will decide if you belong to a specific group of patients for which pre-treatment with 
corticosteroids is to be considered (for example, if you have secondary cancer growths in your brain or spinal 
cord). Please talk to your doctor about this if you have concerns. 
Children  
Due to a lack of data on the use of Thyrogen in children, Thyrogen should be given to children only in 
exceptional circumstances. 
Elderly  
No special precautions for elderly patients are necessary. However, if your thyroid gland has not been removed 
completely and you are also suffering from heart disease, your doctor will help you decide if Thyrogen should 
be given to you. 
Other medicines and Thyrogen 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
There are no known drug interactions with Thyrogen and the thyroid hormones you may be taking. 
Your doctor will determine the exact activity of radioiodine to use for radioiodine imaging, taking into 
consideration the fact that you continue to take thyroid hormones.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not take Thyrogen if you are pregnant. If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or 
are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Thyrogen should not be given to breast-feeding women. Breast-feeding should only be resumed following 
advice from your doctor. 
Driving and using machines 
Some patients may feel dizzy or have headaches after administration of Thyrogen which may affect the ability 
to drive and use machines. 
Thyrogen contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  How to use Thyrogen 
Your medicine will be injected by a doctor or a nurse.  
Your treatment should be supervised by a doctor who has expertise in thyroid cancer. Thyrogen powder must be 
dissolved in water for injection. Only one vial of Thyrogen is required per injection. Thyrogen should only be 
administered into the buttock muscle. This solution should never be injected into a vein. Thyrogen must not be 
mixed with other medicines in the same injection.  
The recommended dose of Thyrogen is two doses administered 24 hours apart. Your doctor or nurse will inject 
1.0 ml of the Thyrogen solution. 
When you undergo radioiodine imaging or elimination (ablation), your doctor will give you radioiodine 
24 hours after your final Thyrogen injection.  
Diagnostic scanning should be performed 48 to 72 hours after the radioiodine administration (72 to 96 hours 
after the final injection of Thyrogen). 
Post-treatment scanning may be delayed a few days to allow background radioactivity to decline. 
For thyroglobulin (Tg) testing, your doctor or nurse will take a serum sample 72 hours after the last injection of 
Thyrogen. 
Use in children 
Your child’s doctor will help you decide if Thyrogen should be given to your child. 
If you are given more Thyrogen than you should receive 
Patients who accidentally received too much Thyrogen have reported nausea, weakness, dizziness, headache, 
vomiting and hot flashes.  
A suggested treatment in case of overdose would be the reestablishment of fluid balance and administration of 
an antiemetic may also be considered. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
The following effects have been reported with Thyrogen:  
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
•  nausea 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
•  vomiting 
• 
fatigue 
•  dizziness 
•  headache 
•  weakness 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
feeling hot 
•  hives (urticaria) 
• 
rash 
• 
flu symptoms  
• 
fever 
• 
chills 
•  back pain 
•  diarrhoea 
•  prickling or tingling sensation (paraesthesia),  
•  neck pain 
• 
• 
• 
inability to taste (ageusia) 
impaired sense of taste (dysgeusia) 
influenza 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
swelling of the tumour  
• 
•  pain (including pain at the site of metastases (secondary cancer growths))  
• 
tremor 
• 
stroke 
•  palpitations 
• 
flushing 
• 
shortness of breath  
• 
itching (pruritus) 
• 
excessive sweating 
•  muscle or joint pain 
• 
• 
•  hypersensitivity (allergic reactions), these reactions include hives (urticaria), itching, flushing, difficulty 
injection site reactions (including redness, discomfort, itching, local pain or stinging, and an itchy rash) 
low TSH 
in breathing and rash. 
Very rare cases of hyperthyroidism (increased activity of the thyroid gland) or atrial fibrillation have been 
reported when Thyrogen was administered to patients who had not undergone total or partial removal of the 
thyroid gland. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not listed in 
this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. By 
reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Thyrogen 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label after “EXP”. The expiry date refers to 
the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
It is recommended that the Thyrogen solution be injected within three hours after reconstitution. 
The reconstituted solution can be stored for up to 24 hours in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C) under protection from 
light, while avoiding microbial contamination. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice foreign particles, cloudiness or discoloration. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away 
medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Thyrogen contains 
-  The active substance is thyrotropin alfa.  
Each vial contains 0.9 mg/ml of thyrotropin alfa when reconstituted with 1.2 ml water for injection. Only 1 ml 
should be withdrawn equal to 0.9 mg of thyrotropin alfa. 
-  The other ingredients are:  
Mannitol 
Sodium phosphate monobasic, monohydrate 
Sodium phosphate dibasic, heptahydrate 
Sodium chloride. 
Thyrogen contains sodium, see section 2. 
What Thyrogen looks like and contents of the pack 
Powder for solution for injection. White to off-white lyophilised powder. 
Pack sizes: one or two vials of Thyrogen per carton.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Sanofi B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer:  
Genzyme Ireland Limited 
IDA Industrial Park 
Old Kilmeaden Road 
Waterford 
Ireland 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing Authorisation 
Holder:  
België/Belgique/Belgien/ 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 710 54 00 
България 
Swixx Biopharma EOOD 
Tел: +359 (0)2 4942 480 
Česká republika 
sanofi-aventis, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 086 111 
Danmark 
Sanofi A/S  
Tlf: +45 45 16 70 00 
Deutschland 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Tel.: 0800 52 52 010 
Tel: aus dem Ausland:+ 49 69 305 21 131 
Eesti 
Swixx Biopharma OÜ 
Tel. +372 640 10 30 
Magyarország 
SANOFI-AVENTIS Zrt. 
Tel: +36 1 505 0050 
Malta 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 39394275 
Nederland 
Sanofi B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 245 4000 
Norge 
sanofi-aventis Norge AS 
Tlf: + 47 67 10 71 00 
Österreich 
sanofi-aventis GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 80 185 - 0 
Polska 
sanofi-aventis Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 280 00 00 
Ελλάδα 
Sanofi-Aventis Μονοπρόσωπη AEBE 
Τηλ: +30 210 900 16 00 
Portugal 
Sanofi – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 35 89 400 
España 
sanofi-aventis, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 485 94 00 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
Tél: 0 800 222 555 
Appel depuis l’étranger: +33 1 57 63 23 23 
România 
Sanofi Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 317 31 36 
Slovenija 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 235 51 00 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hrvatska 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2078 500 
Slovenská republika 
Swixx Biopharma s.r.o. 
Tel.:  +421 2 208 33 600  
Ireland 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 403 56 00 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: 800536389 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: +357 22 741741 
Latvija 
Swixx Biopharma SIA 
Tel: +371 6 616 47 50 
Lietuva 
Swixx Biopharma UAB 
Tel. +370 5 236 91 40 
Suomi/Finland 
Sanofi Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0) 201 200 300 
Sverige 
Sanofi AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 634 50 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 035 2525 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
The recommended dose regimen of Thyrogen is two intramuscular injections of 0.9 mg thyrotropin alfa 
administered at a 24-hour interval. 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of the 
administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Use aseptic technique. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Add 1.2 ml water for injection to the Thyrogen powder in the vial. Swirl the contents of the vial gently until all 
material is dissolved.  Do not shake the solution.  When the powder is dissolved the total volume in the vial is 
1.2 ml.  The pH of the Thyrogen solution is approximately 7.0. 
Visually inspect the Thyrogen solution in the vial for foreign particles and discoloration. The Thyrogen solution 
should be a clear, colourless solution.  Do not use vials exhibiting foreign particles, cloudiness or discoloration. 
Withdraw 1.0 ml of the Thyrogen solution from the product vial. This equals 0.9 mg thyrotropin alfa to be 
injected. 
Thyrogen does not contain preservatives. Dispose of any unused solution immediately. No special requirements 
for disposal. 
After reconstitution, the solution should be injected within three hours. The reconstituted solution can be 
stored for up to 24 hours in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C) under protection from light, while avoiding microbial 
contamination. It is important to note that the microbiological safety depends on the aseptic conditions during 
the preparation of the solution. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
