Assessment report
TOBI Podhaler
International Nonproprietary Name: tobramycin
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002155
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
Table of contents
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3
1.1. Submission of the dossier......................................................................................3
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product.........................................................4
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5
2.1. Introduction.........................................................................................................5
2.2. Quality aspects ....................................................................................................7
2.2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................7
2.2.2. Active substance ...............................................................................................7
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ..................................................................................8
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects.............................. 11
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 11
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 11
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 12
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 12
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 13
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 14
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 17
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 18
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 19
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 19
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 21
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 24
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 25
2.5.1. Dose response studies...................................................................................... 25
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................... 26
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 45
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 46
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 51
2.7. Pharmacovigilance.............................................................................................. 53
2.8. Benefit-risk balance ............................................................................................ 59
2.8.1. Risk management plan..................................................................................... 61
2.8.2. Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products ........................................... 61
2.8.3. Significance of paediatric studies ....................................................................... 62
2.8.4. Conformity with agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan ........................................... 62
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................... 62
Page 2/62
1.  Background information on the procedure
1.1.  Submission of the dossier
The  applicant  Novartis  Europharm  Ltd. submitted  on  3  December  2009 an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  TOBI  Podhaler,  through  the  centralised 
procedure  falling  within  the  Article  3(1)  and  point  4  of  Annex  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the CHMP on 23 February 2009.
TOBI Podhaler, was designated as an Orphan medicinal product EU/3/03/140 on 17 March 2003 for the 
indication  Treatment  of  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  lung  infection  in  cystic  fibrosis.  The  calculated 
prevalence  of  this  condition  was  1.3  per  10,000  EU  population.  On  27  October  2006  the  initial 
designation, which was held by Chiron Corporation Ltd was transferred to Novartis Europharm Limited.
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication  “long-term  management  of  chronic  pulmonary 
infection  due  to  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  in  adults,  adolescents  and  children  aged  6 years  and  older 
with cystic fibrosis”
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  -
complete and independent application.
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality, non-clinical and 
clinical data based on applicants’ own studies and bibliographic literature supporting certain studies.
Information on Paediatric requirements
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/58/2009 for the following condition “Pseudomonas aeruginosa pulmonary infection/colonisation in 
patients with cystic fibrosis” on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).
The PIP is not yet completed. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity
Similarity
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the application contained a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products.
Market Exclusivity
Not applicable.
Protocol assistance:
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP on 17 March 2004, 19 November 2004 and 
26 June 2008. The Protocol Assistance pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the 
dossier. 
Page 3/62
Licensing status
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application.
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were:
Rapporteur: Barbara van Zwieten-Boot
Co-Rapporteur:  Michal Pirozynski;  replaced 
in 
June 2010 by Piotr Fiedor



The application was received by the Agency on 3 December 2009.
The procedure started on 23 December 2009. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 March 2010. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 15 March 
2010.
 During the meeting on 22 April 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 23 April 
2010.



The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 21 May 2010.
The summary reports of the inspections carried out at the following sites: Novartis Pharmaceuticals 
Corporation, San Carlos, CA, USA and SGS Life Sciences Services Lincolnshire, IL, USA 14th – 16th 
June 2010 and 18th June respectively were issued on 26th July 2010.
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 17 July 2010.
 During the CHMP meeting on 22 July 2010, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant.



The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 23 August 2010.
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 08 September 2010.
The applicant submitted the responses to the remaining outstanding issues on 15 September 2010.
 During the meeting on 20-23 September 2010, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee adopted the CHMP Assesment Report and issued 
a positive opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation to TOBI Podhaler. The CHMP adopted also 
the conclusions on similarity of Tobi Podhaler with Cayston. The applicant provided the letter of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 27 September 2010.

Following the European Commission request from 17 March 2011 and EMA response dated 30 
March 2011 the CHMP further substantiated the motivation of its initial opinion. During the meeting 
on 11-14 April 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted  and the scientific 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive revised opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Tobi Podhaler 
Page 4/62
2.  Scientific discussion
2.1.  Introduction
Problem statement
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding for 
the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), a protein that acts as a chloride 
channel. Disruption of the sodium and chloride ion transport mechanism of epithelial cells, associated 
with water transport abnormalities results in abnormally viscous secretions in different exocrine tissues, 
mainly the respiratory tract, pancreas, gastrointestinal tract and exocrine glands.  In Europe 
approximately 25,000 people are affected by CF.
In the respiratory tract the disorder results in progressive, obstructive pulmonary disease. The 
abnormally viscous mucus interferes with the mucociliary transport mechanism normally responsible 
for clearance of bacteria and other organisms from the airways. This makes CF patients particularly 
susceptible to pulmonary infections caused by bacterial pathogens such as P. aeruginosa (PA), as well 
as Burkholderia cepacia, and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia.   Pseudomonas infections are usually 
established in the first decade of life. Patients infected with P. aeruginosa experience episodes of acute 
pulmonary exacerbation, characterized by worsening respiratory symptoms and acute decline in lung 
function. The repeated episodes of infection and associated inflammation cause progressive damage of 
the lungs; P. aeruginosa is rarely eradicated. This chronic infection is associated with reduced life 
expectancy. 
The current management of the pulmonary infections in CF patients is comprised of early treatment 
with a variety of therapies in an effort to prevent exacerbations or management without hospitalisation. 
It includes in addition to antibiotics a variety of therapies such as bronchodilators, mucolytic and anti-
inflammatory agents and airway clearance techniques. Chronic suppressive treatment with inhalational 
antibiotics in particular tobramycin nebuliser solution [TNS, TOBI] belongs now to the standard therapy 
in the management of CF patients with chronic pulmonary infection due to P. aeruginosa.  The 
recommended dose of TOBI is 300 mg twice daily (morning and evening) for 28 days. After 28 days of 
therapy, patients must stop treatment for the next 28 days; the rationale for intermittent dosing is to 
reduce the potential for antimicrobial resistance caused by continuous exposure to drug.  More recently 
the monobactam aztreonam lysine 75 mg powder for nebuliser solution has been approved in the EU 
also for the same indication. IV antibiotics are usually reserved for the treatment of acute 
exacerbations or infections that fail to respond to combined oral and nebulized treatment.
As a result of progress in CF care, the demographics of the CF population have evolved. The mean age 
of CF patients has increased to 17 years in the EU1.
The applicant (TOBI’s MAH) has developed a tobramycin inhalation powder (TIP, TOBI Podhaler) 
formulation for use in the same target group. The dosage is four capsules (4x 28 mg = 112 mg 
tobramycin), administered twice daily i.e. then amount per dose is approximately 1/3 of that approved 
for TOBI. It is administered by using the Podhaler device; each device and its case are used for seven 
days and then discarded and replaced. 
With this formulation the applicant is attempting to address a known problem of compliance with long-
term inhalational therapy requiring long nebulization time in CF patients especially those using TOBI. 
1 European Cystic Fibrosis Society, Kerem E, et al. The European Cystic Fibrosis Registry Report on 2003 Data, 
Summary, 2006: 2 p.
Page 5/62
                                               
The present powder formulation is intended to offer the same efficacy and safety as TOBI but with 
decreased dosing time and simpler administration compared with a nebuliser and compressor.
About the product
Tobramycin is a well known bactericidal. It is primarily active against aerobic Gram-negative bacilli. 
Tobramycin is considered more active than most other aminoglycosides against PA. It is also active 
against Citrobacter species, E.coli, Enterobacter, Klebsiella, Providencia species, Proteus species (Pr. 
mirabilis; Pr. morganii; Pr. rettgeri and Pr. Vulgaris), Serratia species and   Staphylococci.
TIP is formed of low density particles (PulmoSpheres). TOBI Podhaler drug-device combination 
presents a substantial improvement compared to TOBI (TNS) formulation and delivery system 
resulting in a reduced administration time, a decrease in the complexity of equipment, increased 
portability, no need for an external power supply and reduced maintenance.
The originally sought indication for TOBI Podhaler was “long-term management of chronic pulmonary 
infection due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in adults, adolescents and children aged 6 years and older 
with cystic fibrosis (CF). Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of 
antibacterial agents”.
The approved indication is “suppressive therapy of chronic pulmonary infection due to Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa in adults and children aged 6 years and older with cystic fibrosis. See sections 4.4 and 5.1 
regarding data in different age groups. Consideration should be given to official guidance on the 
appropriate use of antibacterial agents”.
The recommended posology is the same for both adults and paediatric patients 6 years of age and 
older: four capsules (4x 28 mg = 112 mg tobramycin), administered twice daily for 28 days. TOBI 
Podhaler is taken in alternating cycles of 28 days on treatment followed by 28 days off treatment. The 
two doses (of 4 capsules each) should be inhaled as close as possible to 12 hours apart and not less 
than 6 hours apart.
Treatment with TOBI Podhaler should be continued on a cyclical basis for as long as the physician 
considers the patient is gaining clinical benefit. 
Type of application and aspects on development
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. It is an
independent “full-mixed” application, which included a combination of study reports from the applicant
studies and bibliographical references relevant to the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and toxicology 
of tobramycin.
The TIP development program was initiated by Chiron Corporation, and continued by Novartis 
Pharmaceuticals from April 2006, when Chiron was acquired by Novartis.  
In March 2003 TIP was granted orphan designation on the assumption of a potential significant benefit 
over existing treatments. Since TOBI is already authorised, the assumption of significant benefit of TIP
is currently based on its potential contribution to patient care. The potential benefit may be related to 
the administration time, portability, storage, cross contamination, environmental and resistance issues, 
variability of performance, compliance, lifestyle, and accessibility to inhaled tobramycin. The applicant
was advised to consider in the development programme all the above mentioned aspects i.e. through 
relevant questionnaires; however the comparability of the efficacy and safety of TOBI and TIP should 
be demonstrated in the MAA.
Page 6/62
The applicant requested scientific advice to the CHMP in 2004 and 2008. In the scientific advice letter 
from November 2004 the CHMP concluded that the pivotal studies C2301 (placebo-controlled) and 
C2302 (formerly TIP002 and TIP003 respectively) might provide sufficient information for a marketing 
authorisation The CHMP considered that study C2302 (TIP versus TOBI) was essential for the 
assessment of the efficacy and should include a minimum of three cycles. Follow up protocol assistance 
was subsequently sought by the applicant and advice was given by the CHMP in June 2008. 
The Phase III studies C2301 and C2302 were conducted following advice from the regulatory 
authorities although there were concerns with regard to a number of issues e.g. the lack of third arm 
(placebo), and study delta and alpha values selected (6% and 0.15 respectively) in study C2302, and
the small number of patients recruited in study C2301. The limited safety data with TIP were 
considered acceptable considering the previous experience with TOBI. Additional information on the 
scientific advice requests is provided in section 3.4.1.
On 27 March 2009 a Decision was granted by the EMA in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 on a Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) for TIP in the condition “Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
pulmonary infection/colonisation in patients with cystic fibrosis”. It included also a waiver for the 
newborn and “less than 3 months of age” paediatric subsets and a deferral to complete some of the 
studies after the initial MA. 
The CHMP “guideline on the clinical development of medicinal products for the treatment of cystic 
fibrosis” and the “NfG on the Clinical Evaluation Medicinal Products Indicated for Treatment of Bacterial 
Infections” (CPMP/EWP/558/95 rev.1) have been considered for this application.
2.2.  Quality aspects
2.2.1.  Introduction
Tobi Podhaler inhalation powder, hard capsules, contains 28mg Tobramycin filled into clear size #2, 
hypromellose colourless capsules imprinted in blue ink with the text “NVR AVCI” on one half and the 
Novartis logo on the other half of the capsule. Other ingredients are: sulphuric acid, 1, 2-distearoyl-sn-
glycerol-3-phosphocholine and calcium chloride. The components of the capsule shells are 
hypromellose, carrageenan (E407), potassium chloride, printing ink (blue) and carnauba wax.
The capsules are packed in Aluminium-Aluminium blisters. 
2.2.2.  Active substance
Tobramycin drug substance is a white to almost white powder which should be visually free from any 
foreign contamination. Tobramycin is freely soluble in water, very slightly soluble in ethanol and 
practically insoluble in chloroform and ether. It contains 14 asymmetric carbon atoms. The 
configuration of the asymmetric carbon atoms is determined by the fermentation process and checked 
by the specific optical rotation.
Tobramycin free base exists as a crystalline solid with three known forms, two anhydrous forms and 
one monohydrate form. A fourth solid state form, amorphous tobramycin, can be prepared by any of 
several means (e.g., melt quenching, spray drying, etc.). Nevertheless, because he active substance is 
dissolved during the manufacture of the drug product, the polymorphic state of the drug substance is 
not considered to be relevant. 
Page 7/62
Tobramycin is a well known active substance. Valid certificates of suitability to the Tobramycin Ph. Eur. 
Monograph (CEP) have been submitted as part of this application by the active substance 
manufacturers. The information provided regarding the manufacturing process and the control of the 
active substance was assessed and approved by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
(EDQM). Satisfactory quality of the active substance is ensured through the CEP.
The specification of the applicant includes all relevant tests as described in the Ph.Eur as well as all 
other tests and limits as described on the CEPs: appearance (Ph.Eur), colour (in house), pH (Ph.Eur), 
identity by TLC (USP and Ph.Eur), by HPCL (USP) and by colour reaction (Ph.Eur), purity by HPLC (in 
house and by TLC (USP), related substances by HPLC (Ph. Eur.), water content (Ph.Eur), sulphated ash 
(Ph.Eur), heavy metal (USP), specific optical rotation (Ph.Eur), residual solvent by GC (in house), 
microbial enumeration test (Ph.Eur and USP), assay by HPLC (Ph.Eur and USP).
In general the Ph.Eur methods are used. For several parameters in-house methods are used that differ 
from the methods that are enclosed with the CEPs. In those cases, cross validation has been 
performed and provided. 
Both manufacturers of the active substance conducted stability studies according to ICH guidance at 
long term (25°C±2ºC/60%RH±5%RH) and accelerated conditions (40°C±2ºC/75%RH±5%RH) 
The first manufacturer submitted data for 60 months (long term) and 6 months (accelerated) results 
on 3 commercial batches with active substance stored in the proposed packaging have been submitted. 
The parameters tested included: appearance, water content, impurities (TLC and HPLC), assay and 
bacterial endotoxins
The second manufacturer provided stability results on 7 batches in alternate proposed packaging for up 
to 36 months under long term conditions and 6 months under accelerated conditions. Appearance, 
water, specific optical rotation, pH, Impurities (HPLC, conform Ph.Eur. and CEP), and assay were 
tested. 
Both manufacturers have also performed stress testing by treating the drug substance with acid, base, 
heat light and hydrogen peroxide.
The stability results are within the specifications and justify the proposed retest periods. In accordance 
with EU GMP guidelines2, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant negative trend, should 
be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMEA.
2.2.3.   Finished Medicinal Product
2.2.3.1.  Pharmaceutical Development
Finished product development
The aim of the development was to propose a pharmaceutical form delivering reproducibly therapeutic 
dose of antibiotics with a portable inhaler. 
At  present,  the  only  approved  inhaled  antibiotic  treatments  for  cystic  fibrosis  patients  with  chronic 
pulmonary Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection are nebulised solutions. Yet, cost of use of nebulisers is 
high  and  the  complex  administration  can  lead  to  poor  adherence  to  treatment  (extended 
administration time, device cleaning, need for an electrical source…).
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union
Page 8/62
                                               
For these reasons, it was decided to investigate the development of a dry powder inhaler; dry powder 
can, in principle, deliver higher doses than liquid-based systems on a puff-by-puff basis. The ability to 
deliver  antibiotics  with  a  portable  inhaler  in  less  time  than  with  a nebuliser  is  considered  as  a 
significant advantage likely to improve patient compliance and quality of life.
A  spray-drying  process  followed  by  capsule  filling  was  initially  investigated.  Over  the  course  of  the 
product, the manufacturing process has been continuously improved and optimized, while maintaining 
the same general sequence and steps. 
Tobramycin  properties,  and  especially  its  solubility,  suggested  that  this  well  known  aminoglycoside 
might  be  suitable  to  develop  an  inhalation  powder  in  hard  capsules  formulation  manufactured  by 
spray-drying  process.  It  has  been  demonstrated  to  be  compatible  with  the  emulsion  preparation  and 
subsequent spray-drying process. 
Excipients  have  been  selected  for  their  suitability  to  the  manufacturing  process,  aerosol  delivery 
performance,  product  stability  and  safe inhalation  use.  Their  choice  and  relevance  in  this  formulation 
have been duly justified. In addition to Tobramycin sulfate, the inhalation powder is composed of 1, 2-
distearoyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphocholine  (DSPC)  and  calcium  chloride;  both  were  chosen  as  wall-
forming  agent  and  taking  into  account  their  satisfactory  behaviour  in  terms  of  stability.  A 
perfluorocarbon solvent and water for injection are used as processing aids during the manufacturing 
process and then removed by evaporation.
Sulfuric  acid  (used  as  salt  forming  agent  and  pH  adjuster),  calcium  chloride  dehydrate  and  water  for 
injection  comply  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  specifications  and  USP  specifications  are  applied for  the 
perfluorocarbon solvent. The analytical procedures are described in the corresponding pharmacopoeias. 
DSPC  is  the  only  excipient  for  which  no  pharmacopoeia  monograph  is  available.  The  applicant  has 
therefore submitted a set of in-house specifications ad analytical methods as well as the corresponding 
validation data. 
Hypromellose capsule shells were chosen over gelatin capsules due to their superior physical 
characteristic and low moisture content. No specific monograph exists for the capsule shells but the 
individual components fulfil their respective pharmacopoeia monographs. 
Inhaler development
Tobramycin  inhalation  powder  is  delivered  with  a  hand-held,  manually  operated,  breath-activated, 
single-dose dry-powder inhaler that uses no stored power sources or electronics. The product bears a 
CE  mark  as  a  Class  I  Medical  Device  under  93/42/EEC  the  Medical  Device  Directive  and  applicable 
amendments. It  was  subjected  to  controlled  extraction  studies.  No  substances from  those  tests  were 
identified as a safety risk which would need to be monitored during leaching studies. 
During  development  changes  were  introduced  to  this  inhaler  (changes  to  the  functional  components, 
cosmetic changes and manufacturability). Comparisons of aerosol performance between manufacturing 
locations  used  during  development  have  also  shown  equivalence.  No  changes  to  the  product  design 
have been made since the initiation of the phase III clinical studies.
A number of different studies have been performed to demonstrate the suitability of the device for this
product  including  Delivered  Dose  Uniformity  (DDU)  and  Fine  Particle  Mass  (FPM)  through  device  life,
DDU  and  FPM  over  patient  flow  rate  range,  single  dose  fine  particle  mass,  particle  size  distribution, 
mouthpiece  deposition,  cleaning  requirements,    effect  of  environmental  moisture, robustness  and 
effect of orientation.
Page 9/62
2.2.3.2.  Adventitious agents
Two materials from animal origin are used in the manufacturing of tobramycin by one of the active 
substance manufacturer: beef extract paste (bovine origin) and peptone (porcine origin). TSE
information as well as relevant CEPs are available for these materials and ensure that criteria for 
minimizing the risks of transmitting agents of animal spongiform encephalopathy are met. 
Furthermore a compound derived from bovine origin is used as an additive to the plastic resin used in 
the manufacture of the inhaler device. The applicant declares that the material was submitted to a 
treatment that complies with the Note for Guidance on TSE risks.
2.2.3.3.  Manufacture of the product
The manufacturing process consists of a spray drying step followed by capsule filling and blistering. It 
has been described in sufficient details and a flow chart stating the temperatures, mixing speeds and 
times, filter sizes, environmental parameters… is included. The manufacturing process can be seen as 
a standard process. Manufacturing of the inhalation powder hard capsules takes place in a strictly 
controlled area and the capsules are subjected to microbiological release testing.
The proposed in-process controls are in line with the manufacturing development and are considered 
to be adequate. The proposed in-process control limits for the dry powder particles are also in line with 
the results obtained for the Phase III clinical batches and the validation batches. Emulsion preparation 
and spray drying are considered to be the critical steps and are controlled within tight operating 
ranges.
Three consecutive commercial scale validation batches were successfully manufactured on the 
commercial equipment at the proposed launch site. All three batches passed in-process material 
control testing, additional non-routine in process testing, and release testing according to the proposed 
specification. The microbial attributes of the drug product were assessed through development studies 
and as part of the long-term registration stability testing.
Overall, the pharmaceutical development has been extensively described and the applicant has 
adequately justified all aspects applicable to inhalation powders as are mentioned in the Guideline on 
the Pharmaceutical Quality of Inhalation and Nasal Products.
2.2.3.4.  Product specification
The release specification includes relevant tests with methods and suitable limits for: appearance of 
content, appearance of shell (aspect, imprint and size), fine particle dose (Next generation impactor), 
identification (HPLC and FTIR), uniformity of delivered dose (HPLC), degradation products (HPLC), 
water content (Karl Fisher), microbial enumeration tests, assay (HPLC) and uniformity of dosage units 
(HPLC). All analytical procedures except the visual test for appearance have been satisfactorily 
validated in accordance with ICH guideline Q2(R1) ‘validation of analytical procedures: tests and 
methodology’. The tests and limits of the specifications at release and shelf life are appropriate to 
control the quality of the finished product for its intended purpose. Control of impurities has been 
sufficiently justified and the applicant has committed to tighten some impurities shelf life limits. 
Batch analyses data of 12 batches (3 validation batches, 3 registration stability batches and 6 
representative clinical batches) of the drug product confirm the satisfactory quality of the product and 
indicate the manufacturing process is under control.
Page 10/62
2.2.3.5.  Stability of the product
Stability data has been presented for three production batches packed in the proposed commercial 
container and stored for up to 24 months under long term condition (25°C/60%RH and 30°C/75%RH), 
for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40°C/75%RH) and under other conditions with more 
extreme temperatures and/or relative humidity (e.g. -20°C/ambient, 5°C/ambient, 25°C/75%RH, 
50°C/ambient and freeze-taw). No significant changes in the results were observed for any of the 
batches for the reported duration of storage. The capsules were also evaluated for their photostability 
according to ICH Q1B. 
The parameters investigated were: appearance, assay, degradation products, water content, delivered 
dose uniformity, aerodynamic particle size distribution, microscopic examination, DSPC, degradation 
product , and microbiological quality. The results of these studies demonstrate that the product is not 
sensitive to light, refrigeration or freezing and that the primary packaging adequately protects the 
product from moisture.
Based on the available data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC are 
accepted.
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines3, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMEA.
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects
In general satisfactory documentation has been provided to confirm the acceptable quality of this 
medicinal product, and no major objections have been raised during evaluation. The drug substance 
has been adequately characterized and the specification is acceptable in view of the route of synthesis 
and the various ICH guidelines. Concerning the finished product the complete control strategy and an 
established manufacturing process guarantees consistent control of the product quality which should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the benefit/risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and 
committed to resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion within an agreed timeframe. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects
3 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union
Page 11/62
                                               
2.3.1.  Introduction
The non clinical dossier submitted consists of a combination of TIP studies bridged to the TOBI 
toxicology package, and selected studies performed with tobramycin administered by parenteral routes 
(e.g. acute and reproductive toxicology). A literature review has also been provided. 
All main inhalation toxicology studies performed with TIP, TOBI and excipients, and the carcinogenicity 
study in rats were performed in accordance with GLP and currently accepted guidelines. Acute and 
reproductive / developmental toxicity studies with tobramycin drug substance were not completed 
strictly according to GLP requirements as they were done prior to the issuance of this guidance. The 
tobramycin reproductive studies were reviewed and considered to meet the accepted criteria as of the 
time of TOBI assessment.
2.3.2.  Pharmacology
Considering the amount of clinical trial data and post-marketing experience available from TOBI, as 
well as the well-established pharmacodynamic profile of tobramycin in scientific literature from the last 
three decades, no additional non-clinical pharmacology studies on pharmacodynamics were performed 
during development of TIP.
No new non-clinical pharmacodynamic studies have been performed for the current application. The 
applicant has justified it on the amount of clinical trial data and post-marketing experience available 
from TOBI, as well as the well-established pharmacodynamic profile of tobramycin. Since tobramycin is 
a well known substance, this is acceptable, as data can be provided using literature publications. As 
this was a full application, all non-clinical aspects had to be addressed. 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
Tobramycin is a water-soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic. Tobramycin acts primarily by disrupting 
protein synthesis leading to altered cell membrane permeability, progressive disruption of the cell 
envelope and eventual cell death. Tobramycin inhibits protein synthesis of numerous Gram-negative 
bacteria including Escherichia coli, the species Proteus, enterobacter, Klebsiella, Acinetobacter, 
Pseudomonas, Serratia, Providencia and Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus. 
The parenteral tobramycin resistance breakpoint for P. aeruginosa is 4 g/ml. It must be noted, 
however, after inhalatory administration of tobramycin the local concentrations that will be achieved 
will be much higher than after systemic administration. 
Data on current European MIC values are limited. MIC90 values from different sources range from 8 to 
32 g/ml for CF isolates, and over 64 g/ml for isolates from non-CF patients. 
In the original submission, an overview of the resistance mechanisms and the current status of 
resistance rates to tobramycin in CF patient had not been provided. This was requested to the 
applicant during the evaluation together with a comparison of resistance and susceptibility rates with 
other commonly used antibiotics. From the data submitted with the responses, resistance rates seem 
to be variable. For single resistant organisms, resistant rates of up to 13% have been found in Europe, 
with rates rising to 52% for multiple-resistant non-mucoid isolates from the US (based on a breakpoint 
of 16 g/ml). Of note, multiple-resistant isolates from Scotland showed a resistance rate of 13%.
Multiple resistance mechanisms are involved. The main one utilized by P. aeruginosa to overcome 
tobramycin activity are drug efflux and drug inactivation by modifying enzymes. The unique 
characteristics of chronic P. aeruginosa infections in CF patients, such as anaerobic conditions and high 
Page 12/62
frequency of genetic mutations, may also be important factors for reduced susceptibility of P. 
aeruginosa in CF patients.
No animal studies were performed with the TIP formulation to assess the in vivo activity. In respect to 
PK/PD relation, no information has been provided. The above points are covered by clinical data and 
therefore no further non-clinical data are required.
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies
A literature review of the secondary pharmacodynamics of tobramycin was provided by the applicant. 
Tobramycin has been investigated for the treatment of infections other than the lung, specifically otitis 
media, ocular infection, sinusitis and meningitis. In addition, tobramycin has been investigated in bone 
cement, for the treatment of wounds and other musculoskeletal infections. No further information is 
required since tobramycin is a well known substance.
Safety pharmacology programme
Specific safety pharmacology studies were not completed with TIP. However, safety pharmacology has 
been assessed as part of the repeated dose toxicity studies which have been performed in rats and 
dogs for the present application. No effect on any parameter was observed, at maximum exposures 
which were 13-fold (rats) and 2.2-fold (dog) the clinical exposure.
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions
No new pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies have been performed. Given the fact that 
tobramycin is a known substance which is already marketed as an inhalation formulation for the 
treatment of CF patients, this is acceptable. Drug interactions are unlikely due to the low systemic 
exposure resulting from the inhalation administration. However, relevant and potential interactions are 
described in the SmPC.
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics
Tobramycin administered parenterally has been used since 1975. Information on the pharmacokinetics 
in pre-clinical species is available in the scientific literature and has been summarised, along with the 
pharmacokinetics of tobramycin nebuliser solution (TOBI), in a report included in the application 
(Heywood, 1998). 
The exposure of tobramycin after inhalation of TIP was investigated in rats and dogs as an integral part 
of the toxicology studies. Tobramycin and its internal standard sisomicin were analysed using high 
performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) methods with UV detection that involved pre-column 
derivatisation with 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene. Accuracy and precision were within the calibration range. 
Tobramycin was stable in rat serum and dog serum and lung tissue, indicating a lack of chemical 
degradation and is assumed to be stable in rat lung tissue.
Absorption was fast with Tmax occurring within 0.083 to 1 hour of administration of dose. Tobramycin 
has a short serum half-life and did not accumulate in serum after repeated daily exposure. TIP has a 
long half life in lung tissues that was highly variable (2 to 124 h). Accumulation in lung tissues was 
observed upon daily inhalation with tobramycin Cmax increasing with a factor of approximately 7-fold 
and AUC0-24h increasing with a factor of approximately 20-fold. In rat, steady state levels would most 
likely be reached in one month. Increases in systemic exposure, as measured by AUC and Cmax, were 
less than dose-proportional. The bioavailability of TIP after inhalation is high in rat (≥85%). The clinical 
data indicate that the bioavailability in cystic fibrosis patients is lower compared to the non-clinical 
Page 13/62
species. Cmax and AUC of tobramycin after administration of TIP were lower in humans compared to 
rat and dog at similar administered dosages (around a factor 2). In contrast, serum half-life was 
comparable between humans, rat and dog. The pharmacokinetic data indicate that the concentration in 
lung tissue and serum is higher for TIP than TOBI at the corresponding dosage. This was also observed 
in the clinical trial in which a dose of 300 mg TOBI led to similar serum concentrations as 112 mg TIP.
Tobramycin has a plasma protein binding of 0% and therefore TIP will have no plasma protein binding 
after absorption. Tobramycin is widely distributed with highest levels observed in the kidney. The 
distribution of TIP after absorption will be the same as tobramycin and most likely the highest will be
found in the kidney in addition to the lung. Tobramycin crosses the placenta and is concentrated in the 
kidney and urine of the foetus.
Tobramycin is not metabolised and no additional studies were performed for TIP. 
Tobramycin is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine in humans and most likely also in rat and dog. 
The excretion of TIP was not investigated in animal studies, but will be the same as tobramycin after 
absorption. No information is available for the excretion via breast milk.
No CYP inhibition and induction studies of TIP were performed. However, interactions with CYP 
substrates have not been reported for tobramycin and are therefore unlikely. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology
Single dose toxicity
No new single dose toxicity studies have been performed for the current application for TIP, as single 
dose toxicity studies had been previously conducted with tobramycin administered by oral and IV 
routes. This was considered acceptable. 
The above single dose toxicity studies performed in mice and rats reveal high LD50 values of around 
7000 mg/kg after oral dosing, and from 50 to 130 mg/kg for IV dosing. 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics)
The applicant has performed bridging studies, to evaluate the toxicity profile of TIP and compare this 
to what is known about TOBI. Table 1 shows the inhalation toxicology studies performed with the dry 
powder formulation in rats (1- and 6-months) and dogs (7- and 28-days).
Page 14/62
Table 1: Repeated dose toxicity studies performed with TIP
Study ID Species/Sex/
Dose/Route Duration
N./Group
NOEL/ 
NOAEL
(mg/kg/d.)
Major findings
N103741
GLP
SD rat
10/sex/dose
(5 for 
recovery)
0, 9.9, 19.7, 
72.9 
mg/kg/day
inhalation
4 weeks
N.D.
N103748
GLP
SD rat
15/sex/dose
(5 for 
recovery)
0, 6.4, 11, 38 
mg/kg/day
inhalation
26 weeks
N.D.
 9.9: peribronchiolar inflammation, 
degeneration and inflammation olfactory 
epithelium, chronic submucosal  
inflammation of trachea
19.7:  lung weight (M),  nephropathy 
(M), pelvis dilation (M), alveolar 
macrophage accumilation
=72.9:  kidney weight (M),  lung weight 
(F), inflammation, squamous hyperplasia 
and ulcer/erosion of larynx, 
bronchiolar/alveolar hyperplasia
After recovery:
 19.7: degeneration and inflammation 
olfactory epithelium
 6.4: squamous hyperplasia of epiglottis 
base (F), alveolar histiocytosis, 
inflammation of nose, degeneration 
olfactory epithelium, hyperplasia of 
mucosal glands
 11:  lung weight,  kidney weight (M), 
nephropathy (M), squamous hyperplasia of 
epiglottis base (M) 
= 38:  globulin, nephropathy (F), 
squamous hyperplasia of arytenoids 
cartilages in larynx, hyperplasia of 
broncho-alveolar epithelium, inflammation 
lamina propria (M)
After recovery:
 6.4: alveolar histiocytosis, inflammation 
of nose, degeneration olfactory epithelium,
 11: hyperplasia of mucosal glands
= 38: hyperplasia of broncho-alveolar 
epithelium
MN103743
GLP
N103749
GLP
Beagle dog
2/sex/dose
(1 for 
recovery)
Beagle dog
3/sex/dose
(2 for 
recovery)
0, 8.2, 23.8 
mg/kg/day
inhalation
0, 12, 21.4 
(M), 38.7 (F), 
27.6 
mg/kg/day
inhalation
1 week
23.8 
mg/kg/day
No treatment-related findings
4 weeks
N.D.
 12: Tubular degeneration, inflammation 
in kidney (M), inflammation in lung and 
nasal turbinates
 27.6: Inflammation in kidney (F)
After recovery:
 12: Tubular degeneration
The main issue to address is whether there is a difference in toxicological profile between the two 
formulations, either qualitatively or quantitatively. The effects that are seen in both rats and dogs after 
TIP treatment can be divided into local effects on the respiratory system, and systemic effects on the 
kidney. 
Local effects on the respiratory system are likely to result from high local concentrations in the lung 
tissue. It is not known whether the concentrations in the lungs of rats and dogs are in excess of those 
found in humans. Therefore no conclusions on safety margins can be drawn. However, the qualitative 
profile of TIP and TOBI seems similar in respect to the respiratory findings in rats. Moreover, at similar 
Page 15/62
tobramycin lung concentrations, similar respiratory effects are seen for TIP and TOBI. It can therefore 
be concluded that TIP and TOBI are comparable with respect to local effects.
With respect to systemic effects, the main target organ in rats and dogs is the kidney. For rats, a 
NOAEL could be determined which corresponds to a safety margin of 1.5 (AUC) and 4 (Cmax). However, 
in dogs effects on the kidney were evident at the lowest dose tested, which is below therapeutic 
exposures.
Nephrotoxicity is a well documented effect of tobramycin treatment both in nonclinical animal species 
and in the clinic. Trough tobramycin levels of 2 μg/mL are required to induce evidence of renal effects 
in humans. It must be assumed that once tobramycin is systemically absorbed, it behaves the same 
way as any other tobramycin product, and systemic effects will depend on exposure. 
Whether there is an increased risk of systemic effects of TIP compared to TOBI depends on systemic 
exposure, which needs to be evaluated clinically. Based on the repeated dose toxicity bridging studies, 
TOBI and TIP are similar regarding their toxicity profile.
Genotoxicity
Tobramycin does not have any genotoxic potential. No additional genotoxicity studies have been 
performed for the present application. This is acceptable.
Carcinogenicity
A carcinogenicity study with TIP was not performed. However in a 95-week carcinogenicity study in 
rats with the TOBI inhalation formulation, no evidence of a carcinogenic potential was seen.
The lack of a carcinogenic effect in this TOBI study can be extrapolated to TIP. No further studies are 
considered necessary.
Reproduction Toxicity
Specific reproductive and developmental toxicity studies were not completed with TIP. Tobramycin was 
however evaluated in previous studies for reproduction toxicity in rats and rabbits with subcutaneous
administration. Tobramycin is not teratogenic nor embryotoxic in animal studies. Only at maternal 
toxic doses there is a decrease in live foetuses in rabbits, mainly due to increased mortality of the 
dams.
No studies on juvenile animals were conducted for the present application. As there is already clinical 
experience in children, this is acceptable.
Local Tolerance 
The local tolerance of inhaled tobramycin is addressed in the repeated dose toxicity studies. Findings 
observed in the respiratory tract were considered typical of non-specific inflammatory responses to the 
extended inhalation of particles in animals and represent a low human risk. No other specific studies on 
local tolerance were conducted. Based on the above findings, this is considered acceptable
Other toxicity studies
Toxicity studies on impurities have also been conducted; conclusions are shown below: 
Page 16/62
The excipient DSPC has been studied in repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs to 6 months. 
There were no effects that could be related to DSPC. This excipient is therefore safe to use at the 
intended concentration. 
An impurity and degradation product of DSPC was evaluated in a 2-week rat study. There were no 
effects that could be related to the degradation product. 
In addition a perfluorocarbon residual solvent was present in the batches used for the 1-month 
repeated dose toxicity studies at high enough levels to be qualified. This residual solvent has no 
genotoxic potential.
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment
Substance (INN/Invented Name): Tobramycin
CAS-number (if available): 32986-56-4; 49842-07-1 (sulfate: xH2SO4); 79645-27-5 
(sulfate: 5H2SO4)
PBT screening
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
Kow
Result
log Kow  -5.8
Conclusion
Potential PBT: N
Extracted from 
‘Clarke’s 
Analysis of 
Drugs and 
Poisons’
The reported log Kow value of -5.8 can be used for environmental risk 
assessment. Since this value is clearly below the trigger value of 4.5, 
tobramycin is not considered to be a PBT, nor vPvB substance.
PBT-statement :
Value
0.007
Phase I 
Calculation
PEC surfacewater , refined 
(orphan status)
Other concerns (e.g. chemical 
class)
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate
Study type
Adsorption-Desorption
Test protocol
OECD 106
Unit
g/L
Ready Biodegradability Test
Aerobic and Anaerobic 
Transformation in Aquatic 
Sediment systems
OECD 301
OECD 308
Phase IIa Effect studies 
Study type 
Algae, Growth Inhibition Test/ 
Cyanobacteria
Daphnia sp. Reproduction 
Test 
Fish, Early Life Stage Toxicity 
Test/Species
Test protocol
OECD 201, 4 
days
OECD 211, 21 
days
OECD 210, 28 
days
Results
Koc = 48945-115185 L/kg for 
sludge and 90445-657429 
L/kg for soil
not readily biodegradable
Endpoint
NOEC
ErC50
NOEC
value
0.051
0.349
0.36
Unit
mg/L
mg/L
NOEC
10
mg/L
Conclusion
> 0.01 threshold: 
N
N
Remarks
Test not 
performed
Remarks
No significant 
effect at highest 
test concentration
Activated Sludge, Respiration 
Inhibition Test 
Conclusion phase IIa
OECD 209
EC50
>1000 mg/L
Based on the risk quotients in the phase II tier A assessment, no 
adverse effects from tobramycin are expected for the aquatic 
environment.
Page 17/62
Based on the orphan status for tobramycin inhalation powder, the Fpen can be refined using 
prevalence of cystic fibrosis (worst-case, 1 in 8000 inhabitants) and the prescribed dose regime of 28 
days cycles on treatment followed by 28 days off treatment. This results in a worst-case Fpen of 
0.000063. 
The use of a refined Fpen results in a PEC surface water of 7.02 x 10-3 μg/l. This value is below the 
trigger value of 0.01 μg/l. Therefore, there is no need for a phase II assessment. 
However, the applicant has performed a phase IIa assessment. The studies have been provided but 
the results are without consequences since the assessment stops at phase I. Therefore, even though 
tobramycin is not readily biodegradable, a study on aerobic and anaerobic transformation in aquatic 
sediment systems is not necessary. Furthermore, although the Koc is above 10.000 l/kg, an 
environmental risk assessment of the drug substance in the terrestrial compartment is not necessary. 
The reported log Kow value of -5.8 can be used for environmental risk assessment. Since this value is 
clearly below the trigger value of 4.5, tobramycin is not considered to be a PBT, nor vPvB substance.
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects
Non-clinical aspects of TIP have been assessed to a large extent from previous tobramycin studies 
conducted with tobramycin administered through oral or parenteral routes. The applicant has 
performed bridging studies, to evaluate the toxicity profile of TIP and compare this to what is known 
about TOBI. 
No new pharmacology studies have been performed for this application. Reference has been made to 
the pharmacodynamics of tobramycine which is well known; this is considered acceptable.
In respect to TIP pharmacokinetics, no new non-clinical studies have been conducted with TIP given 
the information on tobramycin pharmacokinetics after intravenous administration available in the
scientific literature. The pharmacokinetics is therefore adequately evaluated. Toxicokinetics were 
compared between TIP and TOBI, and showed a higher tobramycin systemic and lung exposure at the
corresponding dosage. 
Inhalation toxicology studies have been completed with TIP in rats (up to 6 months) and dogs (up to 1 
month). The effects that are seen in both rats and dogs after TIP treatment are local effects on the 
respiratory system, and systemic effects on the kidney. At similar tobramycin lung concentrations, 
similar respiratory effects are seen for TIP and TOBI; both formulations seem to be comparable with 
respect to local effects. In respect to systemic effects, whether there is an increased risk with TIP 
compared to TOBI depends on systemic exposure, which needs to be evaluated clinically. 
Tobramycin was evaluated in previous studies for genotoxicity and reproduction toxicity with other 
routes of administration; no findings were seen in these studies. In a 95-week carcinogenicity study in 
rats with the TOBI inhalation formulation, no evidence of a carcinogenic potential was seen.
The excipient DSPC and its impurity and residual product were evaluated in toxicology studies and no 
effects were seen; the perfluorocarbon residual solvent was present in the batches used for the 1-
month repeated dose toxicity studies and is therefore qualified in respect to general toxicity at the 
proposed level. 
In summary the TIP formulation has a similar toxicological profile to the TOBI formulation. There are 
no newly identified risks for humans.
Page 18/62
2.4.  Clinical aspects
2.4.1.  Introduction
This application concerns tobramycin inhalation powder (TIP), a novel drug-device combination which 
delivers tobramycin topically to the lumen of the lungs, and is intended to increase convenience in 
cystic fibrosis patients. It is designed for use in CF patients for the same indication and the same twice 
daily, 28 day on, 28 off dosing schedule as used for TOBI. 
The recommended posology for adults and paediatric patients is four capsules (4x 28 mg = 112 mg 
tobramycin), administered twice daily for 28 days. TOBI Podhaler is taken in alternating cycles of 
28 days on treatment followed by 28 days off treatment. Treatment with TOBI Podhaler should be 
continued on a cyclical basis for as long as the physician considers the patient is gaining clinical benefit. 
The applicant requested scientific advice to the CHMP in 2004 and 2008. In the scientific advice letter 
from November 2004 the CHMP concluded that the pivotal studies C2301 and C2302 (formerly TIP002 
and TIP003) might provide sufficient information for a marketing authorisation and acknowledged that 
more than 1 placebo study would be difficult to justify from an ethical point of view.  The CHMP 
considered that study C2302 versus TOBI was essential for the assessment of the efficacy and should 
include a minimum of three cycles. The primary objective proposed by the applicant was safety. 
However, the CHMP advised that the primary objective of this study should be the assessment of 
efficacy; therefore it was recommended that a formal hypothesis to test for efficacy be included in this 
comparative study. In addition there should be no indication of deterioration of efficacy in the TIP arm 
compared to the TOBI arm. In previous protocol assistance a 3 arm study was highly recommended by 
the CHMP.
Follow up protocol assistance was sought by the applicant and advice was given by the CHMP in the 
letter dated 26th June 2008. The CHMP considered that the approach taken by the applicant with 
regard to study C2301 was acceptable, although there was concern about the pre-mature closure of 
the study with very small number of patients included and the fact that efficacy had remained a 
secondary endpoint in study C2302; the lack of placebo arm was also considered unfortunate. The 
chosen delta assumed that the response in TOBI naive and TOBI experienced patients was comparable; 
however the CHMP stated that more data were needed in this respectively A lenient delta value of 6% 
was considered eventually acceptable for the sought orphan condition. Stratification was recommended. 
It was emphasized that the one-sided alpha of 0.15 would not be considered acceptable. The applicant
proposed to perform sensitivity analysis to include one-sided 90% and 95% CI in addition to protocol 
planned 85% CI; however considering the late stage in which the trial was, the issue of the alpha was 
not pursued any further.
GCP
The applicant declared that all studies were conducted in accordance with the International Conference 
on  Harmonisation  Guidelines  for  Good  Clinical  Practice  (GCP)  and  the  Declaration  of  Helsinki.  Critical 
findings  during  auditing/monitoring  process  with  regard  to  the  conduct  of  study  C2301  especially  in 
some  Latin  American  sites required  measures  which  were  adequately  addressed  by  the  sponsor  (see 
discussion of study C2301).
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
The table below summarises the pivotal studies (table 2)
Page 19/62
Table 2. Efficacy and Safety Studies
Protocol No. & 
Study Dates
Investigator & 
Country
Study Design & Purpose
Population Studied
Evaluations
[TBM100C2301]
invest.: Konstan M et 
al
countries: Argentina, 
Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, 
Lithuania, Mexico, 
Serbia, United States
start: 22-Sep-2005
end: 28-Feb-2007
design, goal & population:
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-
controlled, multicenter, phase 3 trial 
to assess the efficacy and safety of 
tobramycin inhalation powder (TIP) 
in cystic fibrosis subjects
evaluations:
efficacy: Lung function (FEV1,
FVC, FEF25-75), P. aeruginosa 
CFU/g sputum, P. aeruginosa 
susceptibility (MIC), 
antipseudomonal antibiotic use,
hospitalization due to respiratory
events
safety: AEs, SAEs, hematology, 
chemistry, urinalysis, audiology, 
airway reactivity (FEV1), vital signs 
(VS), physical examination (PE), 
serum tobramycin concentration
other: PK
Total No.& 
Race 
(w,b,a,o)
Age Range 
(mean)
Group No. & 
Sex (m,f)
total: 95 (80w, 
1b, 0a, 14o)
age: 6-21 yrs 
(13.3)
groups: 2
Cycle 1: 42m, 
53f
TIP: 46 (19m, 
27f)
Placebo: 49 
(23m, 26f)
Treatment, Route,
Regimen, Duration of
Therapy, Dosage
Powder-filled hard 
capsules delivered via T-
326 inhaler (DPI)
TIP 28 mg
Placebo 
duration: 3 cycles of 28
days on treatment and 
28 days off treatment
doses: bid, orally 
inhaled
Cycle 1: TIP 4 x 28 mg
Placebo
Cycles 2 and 3:
all patients 
received TIP
Cycles 2 and 3:
TIP 4 x 28 mg
[TBM100C2302]
invest.: Konstan M et 
al
countries: Australia, 
Canada, Chile, 
Colombia, France, 
Germany, Greece, 
Hungary, Israel, Italy, 
Mexico, Spain, 
Switzerland, The 
Netherlands, United 
Kingdom, United 
States
start: 06-Feb-2006
end: 12-Mar-2009
design, goal & population:
Randomized, open-label, 
multicenter, phase 3 trial to assess 
the safety of tobramycin inhalation 
powder compared to TOBI in cystic 
fibrosis subjects
total: 517 
(468w, 4b, 4a, 
41o)
age: 6-66 yrs 
(25.6)
evaluations:
safety (primary objective): AEs, 
SAEs, hematology, chemistry, 
urinalysis, audiology, airway 
reactivity (FEV1), VS, PE, serum 
tobramycin concentration
groups: 2 
(286m, 231f)
TIP: 308 
(171m, 137f)
TOBI: 209 
(115m, 94f)
efficacy (key secondary objective): 
lung function (change in FEV1 % 
predicted), treatment satisfaction 
questionnaire for medication 
(TSQM), administration time, 
P.aeruginosa suppression, 
hospitalization
Powder-filled hard 
capsules delivered via
T-326 inhaler (DPI)
TIP 28 mg Nebulized 
solution delivered via 
PARI LC PLUS™ Jet 
Nebulizer and DeVilbiss 
PulmoAide™ compressor 
or a suitable alternative 
TOBI 60 mg/mL ( 5 mL
ampule)
duration: 3 cycles of 28 
days on treatment and 
28 days off treatment
doses: randomized to 
TIP or TOBI at a 3:2 
ratio. Dosing bid, orally 
inhaled TIP 4 x 28 mg
TOBI 5 x 60 mg/mL
Page 20/62
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics
Tobramycin inhalation powder is designed for use in the same indication and with the same dosing 
cycle as used for TOBI. TOBI has been used as comparator in the pharmacokinetic studies. 
To support the application of TIP, the following 3 studies have been submitted:
-
-
-
study TSB-001: exploratory study in CF patients of varying age and lung function to characterize 
their inspiratory flow profiles and to assess inspiratory volumes, flows and times using a 
simulated dry powder inhaler (active drug was not administered in this study).
study INH-007: exploratory study in healthy subjects using a prototype TIP formulation to 
compare the lung deposition and pharmacokinetics between TIP and TOBI
study TPI001: Phase I study in patients with CF to assess the safety, tolerability and 
pharmacokinetics of ascending single-doses of TIP (up to a dose of 112 mg); the approved 300 
mg dose of TOBI was used as the reference in the study.
Furthermore, sparse pharmacokinetic samples were also collected in the Phase III trials (C2301 and 
C2302) and analyzed as part of the population pharmacokinetic analysis for TIP to determine the 
influence of various covariates like gender, body mass index, lung function etc on the pharmacokinetics 
of TIP.
For the analysis of tobramycin in plasma and sputum, fully validated analytical methods were applied, 
showing  acceptable  performance  with  regard  to  accuracy,  precision,  and  in  part  stability.  In  study 
C2302 samples were stored for 33 months, while stability data only cover 21 months. In response to 
CHMP  request  of  the  missing  data  the  applicant  indicated  that  stability  studies  were  ongoing.  The 
applicant  committed  to  provide  the  results  as  a  follow-up  measure  when  completed  (see  follow-up 
measures section).
Analysis of tobramycin in serum was carried out at 4 study sites. No cross validation was carried out. 
The applied method was for all study sites the same using the standard kit Abbot diagnostics TDxFLx 
system. No pronounced differences in outcome between the studies were expected as the observed 
variability (accuracy/precision) during validation was well within limits and the observed variability in 
pharmacokinetics was high. This also applied for analysis of tobramycin in sputum.
Absorption 
Tobramycin is not absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract after oral administration. The T-326 inhaler
has been used in all studies. Lung disposition after TIP administration is ca. 34%, meaning that of the 
recommended 112 mg dose, 27.6 mg tobramycin had reached the lung. The bioavailability was 
estimated to be about 30%.
Distribution
Tobramycin bounds less than 10% to plasma proteins. After parenteral administration, tobramycin 
distributes throughout extracellular water and highly perfused tissues and has an apparent volume of 
distribution in the range of 7 to 35 L (0.1- 0.6 L/kg).
Elimination
Tobramycin is not metabolized and is excreted unchanged principally by glomerular filtration with some 
tubular re-absorption. Tobramycin is cleared from serum with a half-life of approximately two hours. 
This half-life is dependent upon renal function, and increases with decreasing creatinine clearance.
Page 21/62
After inhalation of radiolabelled drug, the relative distribution of radiolabel within the central, 
intermediate, and peripheral airways was comparable for both TIP and TOBI, and the same proportion 
of the drug delivered to the lung reached the systemic circulation. There is a possibility that the 
difference in formulations may affect rheology properties of the mucous, which may be clinically 
relevant.
Dose proportionality and time dependencies
In CF patients, an almost dose proportional increase in AUC and Cmax is observed for TIP over the 
dose range of 28 – 112 mg. No significant correlation between change from baseline in FEV1 and AUC 
and Cmax was detected for TIP and TOBI. A comparable systemic exposure was obtained after a 4x28 
mg dose of TIP compared to a 300 mg dose of TOBI, which support the recommended dose of 112 mg 
(4 capsules) b.i.d. Further support is coming from clinical efficacy and safety studies. Administration of 
4 capsules of TIP took about 5 min, which is clearly shorter than the time needed for TOBI 
(approximately 15 min).
Two inhalations should be taken from each capsule. This is in accordance with the outcome of study 
TSB-001, to ensure that patients at the lower end of the typical CF range of inspired volume inhale the 
complete dose; all patients receiving TIP were instructed to inhale twice from each capsule. The 
applicant has confirmed that this posology was used in the pivotal clinical trials.
From TOBI it is known that tobramycin does not accumulate in plasma and sputum. It is expected that 
this also applies for TIP, taking also into account the short elimination half-life of about 2 to 3 h. 
Moreover, in study C2301 and C2302, only low Ctrough levels were observed after b.i.d. administration 
of 112 mg TIP. Therefore, time dependency in pharmacokinetics is not an issue for tobramycin.
Special populations
Tobramycin is excreted renally, and patients with an impaired renal function may have elevated 
tobramycin plasma concentrations. The SmPC recommends monitoring to avoid toxic levels of 
tobramycin.
Taking into account that tobramycin is not metabolised and cleared unchanged in the urine, it can be 
expected that plasma clearance of tobramycin will not be influenced in patients with impaired liver 
function. No specific dose recommendation is given in the SmPC and it is indicated that no studies 
have been performed in this patient group.
As tobramycin is excreted unchanged in the urine, clearance is related to renal function. It is not 
uncommon that elderly patients have the renal function reduced. As a result an increase in systemic 
tobramycin exposure may occur. The SmPC states that there are insufficient data in this population to 
support a dose recommendation.
Pharmacokinetic data indicate that pharmacokinetics is not significanly altered in children (age 6 years 
and older). The SmPC states that the formulation is not indicated for use in the paediatric patients less 
than 6 years of age.
Gender, weight and race are not identified as factors which may influence tobramycin 
pharmacokinetics.
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies
Tobramycin is not metabolised and therefore no interactions on cytochrome P450 level are expected. 
Page 22/62
As tobramycin is excreted renally, a possible interaction may occur with diuretic compounds; in this 
respect relevant warnings are included in section 4.4 and 4.5.
Population pharmacokinetics
A population pharmacokinetic model for tobramycin inhalation powder in CF patients was developed to 
characterize the covariates effect of age, body mass index, creatinine clearance, gender, lung function 
(as FEV1% predicted), and weight on the model parameters. Tobramycin inhalation powder-containing 
arms of three clinical studies (TPI001, C2301 and C2302) were pooled to generate a pharmacokinetic 
analysis dataset for modelling. In study TPI001 single doses of 28 mg, 56 mg, 84 mg, and 112 mg 
were administered, while in study C2301 and C2302 112 mg b.i.d doses were administered. For 
studies C2301 and C2302, the times of the doses associated with the pharmacokinetic samples are 
only available at the beginning and end of each cycle. The times of other doses in the cycle were 
imputed by carrying backward from the dose at the end of the cycle with the assumption that each 
dose was given 12 h apart. 
The developed population pharmacokinetic model described the pharmacokinetics sufficiently. The
analysis indicated that for a typical CF patient, CL/F was estimated to be approximately 14 l/h, Vd/F 84 
l, and apparent peripheral volume of distribution (Vp/F) 162 l. From the included covariates, BMI and 
FEV1 were identified to influence pharmacokinetics, however simulations showed that changes in Cmax 
and Cmin were small and considered not clinically significant. A few observations indicated 
concentrations at t=12h of above 2 mg/l. Further analysis performed upon CHMP request indicated 
that younger children are not subject to such a high exposure.
Comparison of trial formulations with finished product
Two  formulations  of  TIP  capsules  have  been  used  in  the  studies:  the  25  mg  formulation  TS-001  has 
been  used  in  study  INH007,  which  is  considered  a  supportive  study;  in  all  other  studies  formulation 
CN1-002  has  been  used.  In  all  cases  TIP  was  inhaled  using  the  dry  powder  inhaler  T-326.  TIP 
formulations are considered comparable. 
For  commercialisation,  the  manufacturing  process  had  to  be  changed  to  improve  the  stability  of  the 
emulsion before spray-drying and to reduce powder yield variability. However, no changes were made 
to composition of the formulation, batch size or delivery device. Equivalence was supported by in vitro
data, like aerosol performance.
Intra- and inter-individual variability
After single-dose administration of TIP to CF patients, inter-subject (n=12) variability in serum Cmax 
and AUCinf was about 52% and 40%, respectively for the 112 mg dose group (study TPI001). This is 
comparable to the inter-subject (n=20) variability in Cmax (about 56%) and AUCinf (48%) after a 
single 300 mg dose of TOBI (study TPI001). The high variability observed in AUC and Cmax is not
unexpected for a drug after inhalation.
Study INH-007 was an exploratory study in healthy subjects with normal lung function using a 
prototype TIP formulation to compare the lung deposition and pharmacokinetics between TIP and TOBI.
In this study the observed within subject variability after administration of TIP by the T-326 inhaler 
was about 18%, indicating that subjects are capable of consistent administrations of tobramycin via 
this method. For TOBI, whole lung disposition was about 5%, meaning that about 15 mg of the total 
300 mg dose was disposed. A total of 56% radioactivity remained in the nebuliser, which may indicate
that the nebuliser had not functioned as efficiently as expected and had not delivered the expected 
dose. The mean lung disposition after TIP administration was ca. 34%, meaning that 27.6 mg 
Page 23/62
tobramycin had reached the lung, which is considerably higher than the TOBI administration via the 
nebuliser, even taking into account that for TOBI the full dose was not administered.
The  relative  distribution  of  radiolabel  within  the  central,  intermediate,  and  peripheral  airways  was 
comparable for both TIP and TOBI. 
The dose normalised Cmax and AUC indicate that the same proportion of the drug delivered to the lung 
reached the systemic circulation.
Data  regarding  TOBI  should  be  interpreted  with  care  as  it  seems  the  nebuliser  did  not  function 
optimally.
Overall, the pharmacokinetics is sufficiently covered and the applicant has committed to provide 
further data on stability of subject samples as a follow-up measure.
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics
Mechanism of action
Tobramycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that acts bactericidal primarily by disrupting protein 
synthesis leading to altered cell membrane permeability, progressive disruption of the cell envelope 
and eventual cell death. Mechanism of action of aminoglycosides is sufficiently known.
Primary and Secondary pharmacology
The applicant has not conducted formal primary pharmacodynamic studies with TOBI Podhaler as it 
was considered that the pharmacodynamic experience with TOBI could be extended to TIP and verified 
in the Phase III studies.
The active substance tobramycin  is well known based on the  long-standing experience with the 
systemic  (IV) use at higher dose levels than those presently proposed for TOBI Podhaler for the 
treatment of infections associated with aerobic gram-negative bacteria. Therefore the applicant has not 
conducted formal pharmacodynamic studies with TOBI Podhaler. Nevertheless, sputum drug 
concentrations obtained after TIP administration were considered sufficiently high (multiple–folds) to 
be active against PA present in the lung. 
Similar to the experience with TOBI MIC data, PK data, together with the comparable deposition of TIP 
and TOBI in the lung in healthy volunteers, give assurance that TIP will be expected to be similar to 
TOBI from the PD point of view. The differences between the two formulations in CF patients are 
further discussed in the following sections.
Page 24/62
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
Efficacy data are derived primarily from the following two pivotal Phase III clinical studies (Table 4). 
Table 4. Overview of pivotal clinical trials.
Study 
no.
C2301a4
Study objective, 
population/design
N. 
pat./age
Treatment 
duration
Medication dose/day/duration
Efficacy/safety 
TIP vs placebo in 
target population/
RDB *
102/
6-21 yrs
24 weeks
4x28 mg bid.
3 cycles of 28 days on 
treatment and 28 days off 
treatment
Cycle 1:    
    TIP 4 x 28 mg or Placebo
Cycles 2 and 3:
     TIP 4 x 28 mg
3 cycles of 28 days on 
treatment and 28 days off 
treatment 
TIP 4x28 mg bid or TOBI 300 
mg
Efficacy 
endpoint
Change 
in % 
predicted 
FEV1
Change 
in % 
predicted 
FEV1
C2302b5 Safety/efficacy 
TIP vs TOBI in target 
population/ ROL **
517/
6-66 yrs
24 weeks
a. Countries: Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Lithuania, Mexico, Serbia, United States
b. Countries: Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Mexico, 
Spain, Switzerland, The Netherlands, United Kingdom, United States
* RDB= Randomised double blind
** ROL = Randomised open label
See table 2 for additional information on these studies.  
In addition supportive data from one study in healthy volunteers (Study INH-007) and two in CF 
patients (Study TSB-001 and Study TPI001) are provided.
There is also an ongoing Phase III randomised double-blind placebo controlled study (C2303- in Russia, 
Estonia) in cystic fibrosis patients to assess efficacy, safety and pharmacokinetics of tobramycin 
inhalation powder from a modified manufacturing process (TIP new). Finalisation of the latter study is 
planned for December 2010.
2.5.1.  Dose response studies
No clinical dose-finding studies were performed since TIP contains the same active component as TOBI 
(i.e. tobramycin) but has been designed to be delivered more quickly and easily as a dry powder rather 
4 External participants
Contract Research Organization (CRO-perform study, data management)  were PAREXEL International LLC (perform 
study in Latin America, data management) and AbCRO, Inc., Business Park Sofia, Bulgaria (perform study in 
Eastern European countries)
Central laboratory (routine blood analysis and microbiology) was ICON Central Laboratories, Inc.
Laboratory (PK analysis)  was Anapharm, Québec
5 CRO Quintiles UK Ltd, 
Site project management 
(except USA and Canada)
Data management   
Plus ICON Central Laboratories (Ireland) and Anapharm Québec, Canada as for trial C2301
Parexel International, UK
Page 25/62
                                               
than as a solution. Hence, a dose escalation study (TPI001) was performed in order to determine the 
dose of TIP that would show equivalent systemic exposure to the current TOBI formulation. This study 
identified that the 112 mg (4x28 mg) b.i.d dose of TIP gave comparable systemic pharmacokinetics 
and sputum concentrations to the approved 300 mg dose of TOBI. The efficacy and safety of the 
chosen dosage are discussed in the pivotal clinical studies described below.
2.5.2.  Main studies
C2301 A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, phase 3 trial to assess 
the efficacy and safety of tobramycin inhalation powder in cystic fibrosis subjects
This was a superiority study of TIP vs. placebo (for cycle 1) with patients being enrolled in 1:1 ratio,  
followed by an open-label treatment with TIP for Cycles 2 and 3, in all patients. 
C2302. A randomised, open-label, multicenter, phase 3 trial to assess the safety and efficacy 
of tobramycin inhalation powder compared to TOBI in cystic fibrosis subjects 
This was an open-label randomised study designed to show comparative safety and efficacy with TIP vs. 
TOBI for 3 cycles (6 months) with patients being enrolled in 3:2 ratio. 
The double-blind superiority (vs. placebo) design in study C2301 was limited to the first cycle, 
although a double-blind design for all 3 cycles of treatment would have been preferred. This had been 
discussed with the CHMP in the protocol assistance requested by the applicant. From the ethical point 
of view in this orphan condition a longer placebo treatment would not have been feasible. The results 
of the first cycle can be considered as proof of concept phase and provided the results of the other 2 
treatment cycles and profile of the effect on the objective efficacy parameter % predicted FEV1 in 
these patients are consistent and supportive, the design of this pivotal trial would be acceptable. 
The open-label design of study C2302 was justified due to the obvious differences between the 
inhalation devices and unfeasible burden on the patients in case of a double-dummy design for this CF 
disease.
Methods
Study Participants 
In study C2301 the inclusion and exclusion criteria were such to allow the selection of a patient 
population similar to that used in the original TOBI pivotal registration studies, naïve to TOBI 
treatment. Diagnosis of CF was confirmed by the presence of one or more clinical features of CF in 
addition to a quantitative pilocarpine iontophoresis sweat chloride test of ≥ 60mEg/L, or identification 
of well-characterized disease causing mutations in each CFTR gene, or abnormal nasal transepithelial 
potential difference characteristic of CF. PA must have been present in a sputum/throat culture (or 
BAL) within 6 months prior to screening, and in the sputum culture at the screening visit.
At entry in the study patients with lung PA infection had not to have used inhaled anti-PA within 4 
months prior to entry. The study enrolled CF patients, aged between 6 and 21 years (inclusive), with 
FEV1 values from 25% to 80% (inclusive) predicted.
In study C2302 the similarly diagnosed (as in C2301) CF patients with lung PA infection had not to 
have used inhaled anti-PA within 28 days prior to entry in the study; patients were not naïve to anti-PA 
treatment systemic or inhalational antibiotics. The study enrolled patients aged 6 years and older with 
a baseline FEV1 of between 25% and 75% of predicted normal.
Page 26/62
In both studies patients were to be clinically stable in the opinion of the investigator.
In both studies patients with a history of sputum culture or deep-throat cough swab (or BAL) culture 
yielding B. cepacia within 2 years prior to screening and/or sputum culture yielding B. cepacia at 
screening were excluded. Furthermore, patients with haemoptysis more than 60 cc at any time within 
30 days prior to study drug administration were excluded.
Treatments
In study C2301, TIP was provided as 28 mg capsules (total weight about 50 mg) in blister packs, 4 to 
be inhaled b.i.d. using the T-326 dry powder inhaler (DPI) for 28 days. Patients randomized to placebo 
were to inhale the contents of 4 matching placebo capsules (containing the two TIP excipients, DSPC 
and CaCl2). All capsules were to be stored at room temperature.
In study C2302, TIP was administered as in study C2301. TOBI was administered as 5 ml of a 60 
mg/ml solution via the PARI LC Plus nebuliser twice daily using the same dosing cycles as TIP. 
Capsules were to be stored between 2- 8°C, but could be stored at room temperature by the patient 
for the 28 day treatment period.
Study treatments in both studies were each to be taken b.i.d. approximately 12 hours (but not less 
than 6 hours) apart.
Treatments were to be delivered in the following order: Bronchodilator (15-60 minutes prior to study 
drug inhalation)--->Chest physiotherapy--->Other inhaled medicine--->Study drug administration.
On the days of clinic visits, sputum samples and spirometry were to occur after bronchodilator
administration, but prior to study drug administration (airway clearance techniques and other inhaled 
medications were to be administered prior to visiting the clinic with the exception of hypertonic saline 
which was to be consistently administered at home or at the clinic, but not within 30 minutes of 
conducting pulmonary function tests, PFTs).
In both studies, the concomitant use of mucolytics (including dornase alfa and hypertonic saline), 
bronchodilators (including β2-agonists), inhaled corticosteroids, and macrolides was permitted provided 
that the doses were kept stable (and initiated during the study). The use of other (systemic) anti-PA 
antibiotics (other than inhaled) was permitted as a treatment option if necessary to treat symptoms of 
pulmonary exacerbation. Inhaled anti-PA antibiotics other than the study drugs were prohibited. The 
study drug was administered after all other respiratory treatments (including physical chest therapy) 
had been completed. There were no restrictions with regard to the use of other medications as part of 
current standards of care for CF patients (e.g. pancreatic enzyme replacements, nutrients). 
Objectives
In study C2301, the primary objective was to evaluate the efficacy of 28-day bid dosing of TIP versus 
placebo, as measured by the relative change in FEV1 percent predicted from baseline (Day 1) to the 
end of Cycle 1 dosing (Day 28).
The secondary objectives were to assess the safety and efficacy of TIP when administered to patients 
who were dosed for more than one cycle.
In study C2302, the primary objective was to evaluate the safety of 28-day bid dosing of TIP delivered 
with the T-326 inhaler versus TOBI delivered with the PARI LC PLUS jet nebuliser and DeVilbiss 
PulmoAide compressor or suitable alternative. The secondary objectives were to evaluate the efficacy 
of TIP compared to TOBI using a relative change in FEV1 percent predicted at the end of Cycle 3 dosing 
Page 27/62
period compared to baseline, and to evaluate patient-reported treatment satisfaction through the use 
of the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM).
These objectives had been previously discussed with the CHMP in the protocol assistance requests. In 
particular, the fact that efficacy was a secondary objective and not a primary objective together with 
the lack of a placebo arm in study C2302 was of concern for the CHMP, who agreed that non-inferiority 
of TIP vs. TOBI would have to be demonstrated in this study. In the placebo-controlled study C2301 it 
was critical to demonstrate that the efficacy of TIP in anti-PA inhaled antibiotic naïve CF patients gave
similar results as the original registration studies for TOBI in similarly treatment naïve patients when 
treated for 1-3 cycles. Both studies are considered pivotal for this MAA for the sought indication.
Outcomes/endpoints
In line with EMEA CF guideline, the chosen primary efficacy endpoint in both pivotal studies is relative 
change from baseline in % predicted FEV1 at day 28 of each treatment cycle in study C2301 and after 3 
treatment cycles in study C2302.
FEV1 was measured in liters, and was converted to FEV1 % predicted using the Knudson (1983) 
Normal Value (KNV) equations. The relative change in FEV1 % predicted from baseline to pre-dose day 
X of cycle Y = ((predose day X FEV1 % predicted – baseline FEV1 % predicted) / baseline FEV1 % 
predicted) x 100. i.e., relative change = ((predose day X – baseline) / baseline) x 100.
In the present pivotal clinical studies quantitative efficacy primary endpoint (in % predicted FEV1) for 
spirometry was supported by microbiological outcomes (as secondary endpoint). 
Additional lung function parameters were also evaluated such as relative change in FVC % predicted 
and FEF25-75 % predicted from baseline to each post baseline visit was summarized descriptively by 
treatment group.
In C2302 Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) assessment was also used as a secondary efficacy endpoint.
The PRO analysis for treatment satisfaction was based on the ITT population. Patient’s self-reported 
satisfaction or dissatisfaction with study drug (medication and delivery device) was measured using the 
Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM), a validated instrument (Atkinson 2004).
The TSQM has a total of 14 items with responses to nearly all items rated on a five-point or 7-point 
rating scale; with a higher rating indicating a higher level of satisfaction. The questionnaire was 
modified by Chiron (the original sponsor of the study) with the addition of 4 questions and the 
rewording of instructions and adjusted wording. 
Convenience and Global Satisfaction. Treatment satisfaction scores (Items 1-14) were summarized 
descriptively by treatment group and time point. The scale scores were transformed into continuous 
data scores, with a possible range of 0% to 100%, where a higher scale score indicates higher 
satisfaction for that scale, e.g. convenience.
Microbiology endpoints included change in PA sputum density, treatment-emergent isolation of other 
bacterial respiratory pathogens, and change in susceptibility of PA to tobramycin. The PA density 
analysis was based on logarithm scale as log10 (log10 colony-forming units [CFU] per gram of sputum). 
Absolute change from baseline to each post-baseline time point in cycles 1-3 are summarized 
descriptively by treatment group. No statistical testing is performed. Sputum was collected preferably 
from the first morning specimen; if the subject was unable to produce a sputum specimen, a deep-
throat cough swab or induced sputum was to be done, at the investigator’s discretion.
Exacerbations and hospitalizations related to respiratory events were collected to support the data for 
the relative change from baseline in % predicted.
Page 28/62
Compliance was evaluated as follows in both studies: on the days that the patient was dosed in the 
clinic, the study coordinator recorded the total study-drug administration time on the source 
documentation and CRF. Assessment of compliance with the dosing schedule was based on completed 
subject dosing logs, number of used and unused capsules returned per patient, and percentage of 
completion of scheduled study visits.
In Study C2302 full TIP compliance was based upon the inhalation of four capsules for TIP (inhalation 
of one TIP capsule counted as 25% compliance for that dose).  Compliance for TOBI was assessed by 
one ampoule being empty (but without data collection to assess whether the full intended dose had 
been successfully nebulized and delivered to the patient). 
Both studies measured also serum concentrations of tobramycin from blood samples (from a peripheral 
site) obtained before, and 60 minutes following the administration of the dose (in study C2301) on 
start and end of cycle 1 and cycle 2. In study C2302 one sample before dosing, one sample between 0 
and 2 hours and two samples between 2 and 5 hours after the completion of dosing. See PK sections in 
this AR.
Safety assessments consisted of collecting all adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), 
with their severity and relationship to study drug, and pregnancies. They included the regular 
monitoring of haematology, blood chemistry and urine performed at study centre / central laboratory
and regular assessments of audiology (at selected centres), change in airway reactivity (FEV1), vital 
signs, physical condition and body weight. Serum tobramycin concentrations were also considered to 
be a safety variable.
FEV1 is a well documented, quantitative measurement of lung function. It is the strongest clinical 
predictor of survival among CF patients. Measuring sustained benefit to the patient as measured by 
lung-function especially FEV1 after multiple courses of inhalational antibiotic therapy is considered as 
an important pivotal evaluation in the assessment of such products. Because lung volume is related to 
age, gender and height, absolute measures of FEV1, measured in liters, do not provide a useful means 
to compare pulmonary function among patients who may differ in size and other relevant 
anthropomorphic variables. Therefore, FEV1 (L) is often converted to values adjusted for age, gender 
and height using an equation developed by Knudson and has been the most commonly used outcome 
measure for CF clinical trials. Results across age groups and by baseline FEV1 % predicted stratification 
will normally be present to clarify further the overall change in FEV1 % predicted (compared to 
baseline) in a treatment arm. Such analyses are provided (see results).
The microbiological outcome measure related to suppression of PA growth in anti-PA treatment in CF 
patients with chronic PA infection of the lung is also an accepted outcome measure.
The PRO questionnaire took into account aspects to be evaluated in relation to the significant benefit 
for patients using the new formulation of inhalational tobramycin in combination with the new delivery 
device as compared to the marketed TOBI and recommended approved delivery device. 
Overall, the outcomes/endpoints together with the supportive microbiological outcome measure and 
the adjusted PRO questionnaire are acceptable for the evaluation of the efficacy of TIP in the sought 
indication.
Sample size
Study C2301 planned to enrol 140 CF patients, aged between 6 and 21 years (inclusive), with FEV1
values from 25% to 80% (inclusive) predicted. A sample size of 140 subjects (70 per group) was 
Page 29/62
estimated to be needed to provide 90% power to detect a treatment difference of 11% in the mean 
relative change of FEV1 % predicted from baseline to the end of Cycle 1 dosing, at a two-sided .05 
significance level, under an assumption of a 20% standard deviation for the primary efficacy endpoint. 
This took into account observations derived form 3 previous studies with TOBI (PC-TNDS-002;-003 and 
-101) for the relative change in FEV1 % predicted from baseline to Cycle 1 day 28, for TOBI-treated 
subjects aged 6 to 19 years with baseline FEV1 from 25% to 75% predicted.
An interim analysis was planned when 80 patients had completed Cycle 1, in order to refine the sample 
size (based on the estimated effect and standard deviation of the primary endpoint measurement). 
Study C2302 planned to enrol 500 patients aged 6 years and older with a baseline FEV1 of between 
25% and 75% of predicted normal. A total of 553 patients were randomized and 517 received study 
drug (308 to TIP and 209 to TOBI). With a sample size of 300 TIP patients, there was a 99.8% chance 
of observing at least one adverse event with a true incidence rate of 2% from the TIP arm, and a 95% 
chance of observing at least one adverse event with a true incidence rate of 1% from the TIP arm. The 
inclusion of 200 TOBI patients  would provide 96% power to demonstrate non-inferiority of TIP to TOBI 
with regard to efficacy, based on a non-inferiority margin of 6% and a one-sided significance level of 
p= 0.15, assuming that the true TOBI – TIP treatment difference is 1% and that the standard 
deviation of the relative change in FEV1 % predicted is 20%.
The sample size per study in relation to the objective is considered acceptable. 
Randomisation
Study C2301 was a randomized, three-cycle, two arms trial. The first cycle was double blind placebo 
controlled with eligible patients randomized to TIP or placebo at a 1:1 ratio using a biased coin, 
adaptive randomization procedure to achieve balance between the 2 treatment groups with respect to 
the following covariates: region (Europe, United Sates/Canada, Latin America), age (≥ 6 to < 13, ≥ 13 
to ≤ 21), screening FEV1 (≥ 25% predicted to < 50% predicted, ≥ 50% predicted to ≤ 80% predicted). 
The investigator or designee was to complete a randomization worksheet at Visit 1.5 and follow the 
instructions for randomization using an interactive voice response system (IVRS). The IVRS assigned 
each patient a unique kit number for the first cycle of therapy.
Upon completion of the first cycle, all patients received TIP for cycles 2 and 3.
Study C2302 was a randomized, open-label, active-controlled, parallel-arm trial. Eligible patients were 
randomized to TIP or TOBI at a 3:2 ratio using a biased coin, adaptive randomization procedure to 
achieve balance between the 2 treatment groups with regards to age (≥ 6 to < 13, ≥ 13 to < 20, and
≥ 20), screening FEV1 (≥ 25% predicted to < 50% predicted, ≥ 50% predicted to ≤ 75% predicted), 
and chronic macrolide use (yes/no). Once the patient’s eligibility was confirmed, a randomization 
worksheet was completed and the patient received a patient number and treatment assignment via an 
interactive voice response system (IVRS). 
The randomisation and balancing for mentioned different important strata are acceptable. The 
practically absent adult category in study C2301 is understandable based on the evolution of the 
management of CF patients with PA infection of the lung.
Blinding (masking)
In Study C2301 the first cycle was double blind placebo controlled. Packaging and labelling of TIP and 
placebo materials were identical, assay results for tobramycin serum concentrations were maintained 
in confidence until after database lock, and only the Data Monitoring Committee members were 
permitted to see the interim analysis.
Page 30/62
Study C2302 was a randomized open–label study due to differences in study drug administration.
Statistical methods
In study C2301, a pre-planned interim analysis was conducted in November 2006 by an external (with 
no sponsor involvement) independent Data Monitoring Committee Contract Research Organization 
(DMC CRO), and the results were reviewed by an external, independent Data Monitoring Committee 
(DMC).
The Committee comprised three members of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation’s standing Data Safety 
Monitoring Board (DSMB). The DMC members were joined by an independent statistician. 
The primary objectives of the interim analysis were to (a) estimate the common standard deviation for 
sample size re-estimation, (b) evaluate efficacy of TIP versus placebo for potential stopping of the 
study, and (c) assess safety in terms of adverse events, airway reactivity, and bronchospasm.
The interim analysis meeting was conducted as called for by the protocol when the 80th randomized 
patient completed Cycle 1 dosing. The clinical database was locked on 02-Nov-2006 and the DMC 
interim analysis meeting was held on 20-Nov-2006. The DMC reviewed interim analysis results on 89 
randomized subjects with 79 subjects (TIP & placebo) included in the safety and intent-to-treat (ITT) 
populations (10 subjects were not included due to no dosing information of study drug or withdrawal of 
consent). This interim analysis is referred to as Original Interim Analysis (OIA).
In the sensitivity interim analysis (SIA) a covariance model with factors of treatment, baseline % 
predicted FEV1, age and region was used. Supportive analysis was also provided based on data of All 
ITT population using a t-test (that is, including spirometry data from all patients). The treatment-by-
covariate interactions were assessed by testing the treatment-by-covariate interactions as appropriate, 
each at the 10% significance level. 
The primary analysis for claiming superiority is based on the SIA ITT population using an analysis of 
covariance model with factors of treatment, baseline FEV1 % predicted, age and region. Due to interim 
analysis, the statistical significance level is 0.0044 at the SIA.
In study C2302, the principal efficacy analysis was performed using an inferential analysis and
confidence interval approach. The non-inferiority margin of 6% was pre-defined in the protocol. A 
claim of non-inferiority efficacy was based on the one-side 85% confidence interval in the ITT 
population (lower limit greater than -6%). Sensitivity analyses based on one-sided 90% and 95% 
confidence intervals from the same ANCOVA model were provided. Sensitivity analyses were conducted 
to assess the impact of patient discontinuation on the non-inferiority comparison. These used various 
data imputation techniques. The single imputation methods included e.g. Last Observation Carried 
Forward, Baseline Observation Carried Forward. In addition, the non-inferiority inferential analysis was 
performed for PP population.
In this study, an independent, external data monitoring committee (DMC) was established to monitor 
certain safety variables during the study. The DMC was comprised of experienced cystic fibrosis 
clinicians who were not investigators in the trial, and statisticians experienced in the interim evaluation 
of safety data. The operation procedure was detailed in the DMC charter. The chairperson of the DMC 
conducted quarterly reviews of SAEs, and the DMC and Novartis had one open meeting when 
approximately 100-150 patients had been enrolled in the trial. Following this meeting the DMC 
received monthly updates on SAEs and conducted an annual review in Dec-08.
The 6% non-inferiority margin had been discussed with the CHMP (TBM100C EMEA Protocol Assistance 
Correspondence 2008), as had been the use of 90% and 95% confidence intervals in addition to the 
85% CI. The non-inferiority margin was selected on the basis of it being approximately half of the 
Page 31/62
expected difference from placebo and also with due regard to the trial feasibility in the comparatively 
small CF patient population.
Results
Participant flow
Disposition of patients in the pivotal clinical studies is displayed in table 5.
Table 5. Study participation and withdrawals in C2301 and C2302
C2301
C2302 
TIP/TIP/TIP
n (%)
PLB/TIP/TIP 
n (%) 
TIP/TIP/TIP 
n (%) 
TOBI/TOBI/TOBI 
n (%) 
48 (100.0) 
54 (100.0) 
329 (100.0) 
224 (100.0) 
46 ( 95.8) 
49 ( 90.7) 
308 ( 93.6) 
209 ( 93.3) 
39 ( 81.3) 
40 ( 74.1) 
225 ( 68.4) 
171 ( 76.3) 
8 ( 16.7) 
12 ( 22.2) 
104 ( 31.6) 
53 ( 23.7) 
Randomized 
Treated 
Completed 
Discontinued 
Reason 
 AE or death 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 ( 1.9) 
44 ( 13.4) 
0 ( 0.0) 
5 ( 9.3) 
28 ( 8.5) 
Withdrawal of 
consent 
 Inappropriate 
enrolment 
2 ( 4.2) 
 Protocol violation 
1 ( 2.1) 
 Lost to follow up 
0 ( 0.0) 
 Administrative 
reason 
1 ( 2.1) 
 Unable to classify 
4 ( 8.3) 
Discontinued by 
cycle 
2 ( 3.7) 
1 ( 1.9) 
1 ( 1.9) 
0 ( 0.0) 
2 ( 3.7) 
4 ( 1.2) 
12 ( 3.6) 
5 ( 1.5) 
1 ( 0.3) 
10 ( 3.0) 
20 ( 8.9) 
12 ( 5.4) 
2 ( 0.9) 
6 ( 2.7) 
6 ( 2.7) 
1 ( 0.4) 
6 ( 2.7) 
 Cycle 1 
5 ( 10.4) 
8 ( 14.8) 
44 ( 13.4) 
28 ( 12.5) 
 Cycle 2 
2 ( 4.2) 
 Cycle 3 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 ( 1.9) 
0 ( 0.0) 
30 (9.1) 
9 ( 2.7) 
9 ( 4.0) 
1 ( 0.4) 
% is calculated based on all randomized patients. 
The data summaries for the cited source tables were based on the treated patient population and not on  the all 
randomized patient population as provided in this table. 
In study C2302, the main reason for discontinuation in both treatment groups was an adverse event. 
There were major protocol deviations which resulted in exclusion from the per protocol (PP) population.
Overall, the extent of the major protocol deviations was well matched between the treatment groups, 
with a 1% or less difference between groups with few exceptions to this such as the improper use of 
chronic macrolides (Tip 6% vs. 2% in TOBI group), compliance less than 80% i.e. a failure to take at
least 80% of the study drug (Tip 18% vs. 9% in TOBI group). 
Recruitment
In study C2301 patients were recruited in the following centres: Bulgaria (2), Lithuania (1), Serbia (1), 
Argentina (5), Brazil (3), Chile (3), Mexico (2); and United States (16).
Page 32/62
First patient enrolled: 22-Sep-2005
Last patient completed: 28-Feb-2007
In study C2302 patients were recruited in the following centres: USA (78), Chile (1), Colombia (2), 
Mexico (1), France (4), Canada (1), Germany (9), Hungary (2), Switzerland (1), Italy (6), Netherlands 
(3), Spain (5), UK (5), Australia (4), Israel (4),
Greece (1)
First patient first visit: 06-Feb-2006
Last patient completed: 12-Mar-2009
Conduct of the study
Study C2301
The study protocol was amended once in relation to aspects such as broadening of the 
inclusion/exclusion criteria in order to facilitate enrolment (to increase upper limit of FEV1 % predicted 
from 75% to 80%; increase upper age limit from 19 to 21; allow the use of chronic macrolide 
antibiotics (provided therapy was initiated 28 days prior to study drug administration) and eliminate 
the restriction on the use of chronic inhaled anti-PA drugs prior to screening from 12 to 4 months. 
Other amendments related to altering the treatment sequence order for clinic visits, with patients 
receiving chest physiotherapy and other inhaled medications prior to the visit; and some other minor 
amendments.
In August and September 2006, Novartis personnel conducted site audits at three active sites in the 
Latin American region and two active sites in Europe. Findings from two of the sites in Latin America 
raised concerns regarding compliance with acceptable pulmonary function test (PFT) calibration 
practices.
Novartis took a series of measures to assure the quality of the Latin American PFT data. These steps 
were endorsed by the DMC prior to implementation:


Novartis set up an external, independent Expert Panel of pulmonologists to review, in a blinded 
manner, the source PFT data from all Latin American centres in the Original Interim Analysis. 
An assigned independent contract research organization (CRO), in conjunction with Novartis 
and the chair of the Expert Panel, created a spirometry calibration checklist which was used to 
document adherence with acceptable PFT calibration practices and to the technical criteria of 
the American Thoracic Society (ATS)/National Lung Health Education Program (NLHEP). 

Using the spirometry calibration checklist, the assigned CRO conducted an audit of all Latin 
American study centres in the Original Interim Analysis to assess overall adherence to the 
study protocol for spirometry equipment calibration.


The independent Expert Panel, using the completed spirometry calibration checklists, 
determined the acceptability of calibrations in a blinded manner.
The Expert Panel reviewed the source PFT data from those Latin American patients with 
acceptable calibration, and rated their PFT quality using the previously defined quality criteria 
developed by the Panel members. Those with unacceptable PFT data according to these criteria 
were excluded.
Page 33/62

A Sensitivity Interim Analysis (SIA) of the OIA data was performed by the DMC CRO (data 
monitoring committee contract research organization), following a revised statistical addendum 
to the DMC charter, to ensure robustness of statistical inference from the original interim 
analysis. The following criteria were used in deciding if subjects were included in the SIA:
− Subjects must have acceptable calibrations at screening day, day 1, day 8 and day 28.
− In addition to calibrations, subjects must satisfy quality review at baseline (screening day or 
day 1 pre-dose) and post-baseline (day 8 or day 28 pre-dose of Cycle 1).
The DMC reviewed the SIA results, and provided a recommendation to Novartis on whether to 
stop or continue the study.
Following the SIA in November 2007, the DMC again recommended that study be stopped 
based on pre-defined criteria from DMC charter.


The DMC driven stop of study C2301 based on pre-defined criteria from the DMC charter is
understandable, although the number of remaining patients in the study became smaller. The latter 
was also affected by the quality conservation policy disqualifying results from unreliable sites (mainly 
Latin American). Nevertheless, this can be supported as the relevant sensitivity analyses have been 
provided.
Study C2302
There were several (4) amendments of the protocol for this study. These included among others 
flexibility measures to allow patients to adhere to study procedures as specified in the protocol; 
expand the acute airway reactivity safety endpoint to include an analysis of acute airway reactivity at 
Visits 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, and 10; and guidelines on the use of inhaled hypertonic saline in study patients and 
its timing in relation to study drug administration were provided.
All amendments were made before database lock and were not considered to affect the interpretation 
of study results.
Baseline data
In Study C2301, patient baseline demographics were comparable between treatment groups for the all 
randomized safety population. See relevant characteristics in the table 6.
Page 34/62
Table 6. Baseline disease characteristics (Study C2301-all randomised safety population)
Age group (years) 
≥6 - <13 
≥13 - <22 
Age (years) 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Min 
Median 
Max 
Sex 
Male 
Female 
Race 
Asian 
Black 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
Other 
FEV1% predicted at 
baseline 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Min 
Median 
Max 
FEV1 % predicted 
at baseline 
distribution 
n (%) 
<25 
≥ 25 - <50 
≥ 50 -≥ 80 
>80 
TIP
(N=46)
21 (45.7%)
25 (54.3%)
46
13.4
4.42
6.0
14.0
21.0
19 ( 41.3%)
27 ( 58.7%)
0 ( 0.0%)
0 ( 0.0%)
37 ( 80.4%)
8 ( 17.4%)
1 ( 2.2%)
32
54.7
18.89
24.1
56.4
96.2
Placebo
(N=49)
Total
(N=95)
24 (49.0%) 
25 (51.0%) 
45 (47.4%) 
50 (52.6%) 
49 
13.2 
3.91 
6.0 
13.0 
21.0 
95 
13.3 
4.14 
6.0 
13.0 
21.0 
23 ( 46.9%) 
26 ( 53.1%) 
42 ( 44.2%) 
53 ( 55.8%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
1 ( 2.0%) 
43 ( 87.8%) 
4 ( 8.2%) 
1 ( 2.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
1 ( 1.1%) 
80 ( 84.2%) 
12 ( 12.6%) 
2 ( 2.1%) 
37 
58.5 
20.03 
23.4 
61.0 
98.2 
69
56.7
19.46
23.4
59.3
98.2
1 ( 3.1%)
13 (40.6%)
16 (50.0%)
2 ( 6.3%)
3 ( 8.1%) 
11 (29.7%) 
18 (48.6%) 
5 (13.5%) 
4 ( 5.8%) 
24 (34.8%) 
34 (49.3%) 
7 (10.1%) 
Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to the first dosing of study medication (screening or predose 
day 1 of Cycle 1); for example, if predose day 1 was missing, the non-missing screening value was used.
Concomitant treatments such as with mucolytics (especially dornase alfa) were used by approximately
2/3 of patients in both treatment groups (58.7% for TIP group and 73.5% for placebo), selective β2-
adrenoreceptor agonists in about half of patients in both treatment groups and in particular salbutamol 
(41.3% for the TIP group and 46.9% for placebo). Macrolides were used by 9.5% of the patients in 
Cycle 1 (Azithromycin: 4.3% in TIP group and 12.2% in placebo group, Erythromycin: 2.2% in TIP 
group and none in placebo group).
The compliance was generally high for both CF treatment groups, being close to or above 90% during 
Cycle 1.
Page 35/62
In Study C2302, the treatment groups had similar demographic and disease characteristics (ARS, ITT 
and PP populations). Adults represented more than 2/3 of the population and most patients were 
extensively and recently pre-treated with anti-PA therapy (the majority used tobramycin). Most 
patients had predicted FEV1 at baseline >50%.  Approximately ¼ of the patient population had PA 
tobramycin MIC> 8 μg/ml (see table 7).
Table 7. Selected Demographic & Disease characteristics   (ARS population)
Age group (years) 
≥ 6 - <13 
≥ 13 - <20 
≥ 20 
Age (years) 
Mean (SD) 
Chronic macrolide use 
Yes 
No 
Screening FEV1 % 
predicted 
≥ 25% - < 50% 
≥ 50% -≤ 75% 
Baseline FEV1 % 
predicted1 
Mean (SD) 
Last use of anti-PA 
antibiotics 
prior to first dose (month) 
0 to 1 
> 1 to 3 
> 3 to 6 
> 6 
never used 
PA tobramycin MIC 
> 8 μg/mL 
≤ 8 μg/mL 
TIP
N=308
28 (9.1) 
66 (21.4) 
214 (69.5) 
TOBI 
N=209 
18 (8.6)
48 (23.0)
143 (68.4)
25.9 (11.36) 
25.2 (10.20)
187 (60.71) 
121 (39.29) 
128 (41.56) 
180 (58.44) 
125 (59.81)
84 (40.19)
89 (42.58)
120 (57.42)
52.9 (14.20) 
52.8 (15.95)
78 (25.32) 
171 (55.52) 
33 (10.71) 
11 (3.57) 
15 (4.87) 
68 (22.08) 
240 (77.92) 
46 (22.01)
112 (53.59)
24 (11.48)
9 (4.31)
18 (8.61)
48 (22.97)
160 (76.56)
The compliance rate (over all three cycles) was >80% in the TIP group, and 91% in the TOBI group.
Overall the treatment groups had similar demographic and disease characteristics per study. Prior 
therapy with tobramycin was mentioned for approximately 80% of the patients per group in study 
C2302. There were some differences between treatment arms regarding concomitant medication with 
mucolytics especially in study C2301.
Numbers analysed
In study C2301, 102 patients were randomized (as a result of the interim analysis it was not necessary 
to reach the planned sample size), 95 (93%) of whom received study drug (see table 8).
Page 36/62
Table 8. Analysis populations by treatment group
Randomized 
TIP 
Placebo 
48 
54 
Number of patients 
All 
Randomised 
Safety 
46 
49 
All 
ITT 
SIA 
Safety 
SIA 
ITT 
32 
37 
29 
32 
29 
32 
Following the original pre-planned interim analysis (OIA) performed in a population of 79 patients, the 
Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) recommended stopping the study according to its charter, as the 
stopping boundaries for efficacy had been met and superiority to placebo had been established. 
However, following audit findings on calibration practices at two sites in the Latin America region, an 
independent expert panel (blinded to the treatment assignment) was appointed to review and exclude 
all pulmonary function test data of unacceptable quality and a sensitivity interim analysis (SIA) was 
performed on the remaining 61 patients. The DMC assessed the results of the SIA and re-affirmed its 
recommendation to stop the study.
In study C2302, a total of 517 received study drug (308 to TIP and 209 to TOBI). See analysis 
populations in table 9.
Table 9.
Analysis population
Intent-to-treat
All Randomised Safety
Per protocol
TIP
N=329
n (%)
308 (93.6)
308 (93.6)
TOBI
N=224
n (%)
209 (93.3)
209 (93.3)
200 (60.8)
149 (66.5)
The intent to treat (ITT) population was the main efficacy population. The per protocol (PP) population 
was used for sensitivity analysis.
In both studies (unless otherwise specified), the following analysis populations were defined for 
analysis purposes:




Randomized: all patients who were randomized to study drug (TIP or TOBI).
All Randomized Safety (ARS): all randomized patients who received at least one unit of study 
drug (one capsule for TIP or placebo in C2301, one capsule for TIP or one ampoule for TOBI in 
C2302).
Intent to Treat (ITT): the same as ARS.
Per protocol (PP): in C2302, all ITT population patients who adhered to the protocol without 
any major deviations. 
Specific for C2301:



SIA Safety: all randomized patients who received at least one capsule of study drug and were 
included in the SIA (61 subjects).
SIA Intent-to-treat (ITT): all SIA Safety patients who received at least one dose (four capsules) 
of study drug and were included in the SIA (61 patients).
All Safety: all SIA Safety patients plus additional treated patients (at least one capsule) from 
North America / Europe whose data are not available at the time of the OIA/SIA database lock.
Page 37/62

All ITT: all SIA ITT patients plus additional treated patients (at least one dose) from US / 
Europe whose data were not available at the time of the OIA/SIA database lock.
In both studies, patients who did not receive any study drug are excluded from all analyses.
Outcomes and estimation
Study C2301. The principal efficacy results are displayed in table 10.
Table 10. Relative change in percent predicted FEV1 from baseline to end of dosing in Cycle 1 
– Study C2301 (SIA ITT population)
Difference 
(SE)
95% CI of 
difference
P-value
TIP
N=29
27
13.21
13.97
Placebo
N=32
31
-0.57
0.68
n
Mean (1)
LS Mean (2)
(1) Mean, p-value, mean difference, and its 95% confidence interval are calculated from ANOVA with treatment in 
the model.
(2) Least square mean, p-value, least square mean difference, and its 95% confidence interval are calculated from 
ANCOVA with treatment, baseline value, age and region in the model.
SE = standard error, n is number of patients with value at baseline and Day 28.
The analysis is based on observed data only; no imputation is performed for missing data.
Source: [Study C2301–Table 11-4]
(5.87, 21.70)
(5.31, 21.28)
13.79 (3.95)
13.29 (3.98)
0.0010
0.0016
TIP treatment was superior to placebo with respect to the % predicted FEV1 end point on Day 28 of 
Cycle 1 in the SIA ITT population. After this analysis, data from an 8 additional patients from North
America and Europe became available. The supportive analyses of ALL ITT population showed results 
consistent with those in the SIA ITT analysis.
Pulmonary function data from eight patients from Latin America also became available since the OIA 
and SIA. Because the quality of these data could not be confirmed by the expert panel these data were 
not included in the above analysis. This analysis approach was pre-specified prior to database 
lock/unblinding.
The results of study C2301 are reminiscent of those of TOBI versus placebo in the registration trials 
more than 10 years ago in a similar patient population, although then there were markedly more adult 
patients included.
Study C2302, the principal efficacy results (improvements in % predicted FEV1 obtained with TIP and 
TOBI treatments) are displayed in table 11.
Table 11. Relative change in percent predicted FEV1 from baseline to pre-dose day 28 Cycles 
3 – Study C2302 (ITT population)
Page 38/62
TIP/TIP/TIP
N=308
TOBI/TOBI/TOBI
N=209
Difference
(SE)
85% one-sided CI 
of difference
95% one-sided CI 
of difference
N
LS Mean (1)
Mean (2)
227
5.8
3.1
171
4.7
2.3
1.1 (1.75)
0.8 (1.92)
(-0.67, 2.96)
(-1.22, 2.77)
(-1.74, 4.03)
(-2.39, 3.94)
(1) Least square mean, least square mean difference (TIP - TOBI), and its one-sided 85% and 95% confidence 
interval are calculated from ANCOVA with treatment, baseline % predicted FEV1, age, chronic macrolide use, and 
region in the model.
(2) Mean, mean difference, and its one-sided 85% and 95% confidence interval are calculated from ANOVA with 
treatment in the model.
SE = standard error, n is number of patients with values at baseline and Day 28 of Cycle 3.
The analysis is based on observed data only, no imputation is performed for missing data.
Source: [Study C2302–Table 14.2-1.3a]
Non-inferiority of TIP to TOBI was shown at the 6% margin with the LS mean one-sided 90% CI (-1.10, 
3.39) and the one-sided 95% CI (-1.74, 4.03) in the ITT population with PP analysis being consistent 
with this conclusion. 
The overall observed smaller degree of change of FEV1 in C2302 compared to study C2301 could be 
expected because the included patients were generally TOBI "experienced” whereas in Study C2301 
the patients were TOBI naive patients
Ancillary analyses
In study C2301, the improvement in % predicted FEV1 obtained in the first cycle of TIP treatment 
decreased slightly and was stabilised over subsequent cycles of treatment, see the figure 1.
Figure 1. Relative change in FEV1 % predicted from baseline in Cycles 1-3 (SIA ITT 
population)
Note: 
             Off-treatment phases: from week 5 to 9, week 13 to 17 and week 21 to 25.
The vertical bar is 95% confidence interval.
The results of subgroup analyses for the different age groups and pulmonary function categories are 
shown in table 12.
Table 12. Subgroup analysis of relative change in FEV1 % predicted from baseline to end of 
dosing in Cycle 1 – Study C2301 (ITT population)
Page 39/62
Subgroup 
TIP
N=32
Placebo
N=37
Difference
(TIP- Placebo)
n
Mean (SD)
n
Mean (SD)
LS 
Mean
LS 
Mean
LS
Mean (SE)
95% CI
 Age
< 13 
> 13 
Baseline 
FEV1% pred. 
< 50% 
> 50% 
10
18
13
15
15.2(15.01)
12.6(17.25) 
15.0 
12.0 
15.8(18.18)
11.5(14.72) 
15.8 
11.5 
13
21
12
22
-2.0(14.94)
-0.3(12.12)
-0.9 
-0.4 
15.9(6.2)
12.4(4.7)
(3.3, 28.4)
(2.9, 21.8)
-0.1(15.67)
-1.4(11.80) 
-0.1 
-1.4 
15.9(5.9) 
12.9(4.9)  
(4.1, 27.7)
(3.0, 22.8) 
LS mean, LS mean difference, and its 95% CI are from ANCOVA model (Relative change in FEV1% predicted = 
treatment + baseline FEV1 % predicted (continuous) + subgroup + subgroup-by-treatment interaction). Note when 
subgroup is baseline FEV1 % predicted (<50%, >=50%), baseline FEV1 % predicted (continuous) won't be included 
in the model.
Subgroup analysis by region, age, baseline % predicted FEV1, gender and race showed the relative 
change in % predicted FEV1 to be greater in the TIP treatment group compared with placebo for all 
subgroups. 
The analysis by region revealed the highest mean difference (TIP versus placebo) in relative change in 
% predicted FEV1 to be in Latin America (23.3) but the sample size was very small (n=3 on TIP and 5 
on placebo). In the region Europe, the difference observed was greater than in the USA, 18.5 and 4.2 
respectively (n=38 and 23), possibly due to a lower mean % predicted FEV1 at baseline in Europe. 
TIP treatment decreased the sputum PA CFU density during Cycle 1 compared to placebo: change from 
baseline of 1.91 and 0.15 log10 CFU for TIP and placebo for the dry biotype-2, respectively; and a 
change from baseline of 2.61 and 0.43 log10 CFU for the mucoid biotype-1 for TIP and placebo, 
respectively. During Cycles 2 and 3 all patients in both arms received TIP and the sputum PA 
decreased from baseline for both treatment groups. Generally, the PA CFU density rebounded after 28 
days off-treatment and then decreased again after 28 days of active treatment.
The percentage of patients using anti-PA antibiotics in Cycle 1 and the duration of usage were greater 
in the placebo group than that in the TIP group (32.7% vs 19.6% and 31.3 days vs 17.0 days, 
respectively).
The percentage of patients with respiratory-related hospitalizations in Cycle 1 was greater in the 
placebo group than that in the TIP group (12.2% vs 0). The average number of days of hospitalization 
in Cycle 1 was 12.3 in the placebo group.
Relative change in FVC % and FEF25-75 % predicted from baseline was also analysed. The general 
pattern of relative change in FVC % or FEF25-75 % predicted from baseline for TIP compared to 
placebo was consistent with the observed pattern of improvements for FEV1 % predicted: for FVC % 
predicted, a 11% improvement in TIP arm vs. placebo at day 28 was obtained as compared to baseline; 
and for FEF25-75 %, the improvement in TIP arm vs. placebo at day 28 was 38.9% as compared to 
baseline.
The results of the present pivotal placebo-controlled trial C2301 were consistent with the pattern of 
results obtained after 1 or 3 cycles with TOBI. The apparent differences in the results between studies 
can be explained to a great extent by the age and disease characteristics (e.g. baseline lung function, 
anti-PA pre-treatment) of the recruited patients.
Page 40/62
In study C2302, the improvement in % predicted FEV1 obtained in the first cycle of TIP treatment was 
maintained over subsequent cycles of treatment; a similar pattern was seen in the TOBI group (see 
figures 2 and 3 for the ITT and PP populations respectively).
Figure 2.   FEV1  percent predicted relative change from baseline by treatment group 
(C2302-ITT population)
Figure 3.   FEV1  percent predicted relative change from baseline by treatment group 
(C2302-PP- population)
The sensitivity analyses generally led to the same conclusion as for the ITT and PP populations. 
Subgroup analyses for the different age groups and pulmonary function categories are shown in table
13 for the ITT population.
Page 41/62
Table 13. Subgroup analysis of relative change in FEV1 % predicted from baseline to end of 
dosing in Cycle 3 – Study C2302 (ITT population)
Subgroup 
TOBI 
N=209
Difference
(TIP- TOBI)
TIP
N=308
n
Mean (SD)
LS 
Mean
n
Mean (SD)
LS 
Mean
LS
Mean (SE)
95% CI
 Age
< 13 
> 13 - <20
> 20 
Baseline 
FEV1% pred. 
< 50% 
> 50% 
28
55
144
10.4(25.91)
6.8 (18.49)
0.3 (18.65)
12.8 
 8.4
-0.5
15
40
116
 9.4(18.92)
 3.9(19.38)
 0.9(16.60)
 8.2 
 4.8
 0.3 
 4.7(5.74)
 3.7(3.71)
-0.8(2.23)
(-6.6, 15.9)
(-3.6, 11.0)
(-5.2, 3.6)
77
150
10.1(25.42)
-0.5(15.31) 
10.1 
-0.5
76
95
 6.1(19.83)
-0.7(14.94) 
 6.1 
-0.7 
4.0(2.99) 
0.2(2.42)  
(-1.9, 9.8)
(-4.5, 5.0)) 
LS mean, LS mean difference, and its 95% CI are from ANCOVA model (Relative change in FEV1% predicted = 
treatment + baseline FEV1 % predicted (continuous) + subgroup + subgroup-by-treatment interaction). Note when 
subgroup is baseline FEV1 % predicted (<50%, >=50%), baseline FEV1 % predicted (continuous) won't be included 
in the model.
TIP appeared to be generally similarly efficacious as TOBI in these subgroups studied. The results 
suggest that TIP and TOBI are more suitable for the management of sought indication in patients 6-20 
years of age, given the lower performance of TIP in the large group of adults concerning the relative 
change in % predicted FEV1 and the observed higher discontinuation rate due to AEs in this group
compared to TOBI. In response to the CHMP request for additional data, the applicant analysed the 
results taking into account baseline lung function parameters and tobramycin resistant PA baseline 
status. This analysis seemed to indicate that, though not statistically significant, there was a trend 
towards a slightly higher rate of hospitalizations and need for additional anti-pseudomonal antibiotic 
treatment in the TIP group aged ≥ 20 years as compared to TOBI. With respect to FEV1 % predicted 
relative change from baseline in patients colonized with resistant PA (MIC > 8 μg/mL), the outcome of 
TIP and TOBI seems to be different (mean change was 1.4% and 3.6% in the TOBI Podhaler group for 
those with a MIC > 8 μg/mL and ≤ 8 μg/mL at baseline, compared with 3.0% and 2.2% in the TOBI 
group).  Colonisation with a resistant PA likely reflects the presence of more advanced disease with 
limited lung function. This might predispose such patients to benefit more from effective anti-
pseudomonal therapy compared to those harbouring susceptible strains. The counter-intuitive effects 
of TIP and TOBI, as the applicant addressed, may be caused by a more limited lung tissue exposure to 
tobramycin (resulting in overall lower tissue levels) in case of TIP whereas TOBI may still achieve 
levels > 8 μg/mL. Based on the available data it cannot be dismissed that the resistance breakpoint 
(i.e. MIC > 8 μg/mL) is a truly relevant factor involved in the disease and has impact on lung function 
measurements. The applicant acknowledged that resistance is not adequately defined for inhaled 
antibiotics in chronic pulmonary infection but the concerns related to this issue can be appropriately 
managed in clinical practice by monitoring patient’s clinical response to therapy. 
Based on the assumed delta values being of clinical relevance for both studies concerning relative 
change in % predicted FEV1 (11% in C2301 and 6% in C2302) the applicant was requested to provide 
analyses of the percentage of patients who responded by 3%, 6%, 9% and 12% with regards to % 
predicted FEV1 in the treatment groups differentiated (i.e. for age and baseline % predicted FEV1) 
during the 3 treatment cycles in both studies. A summary of the results is shown in table 14.
Table 14. Percentage of patients achieving a 3%, 6%, 9% and 12% change in FEV1 % 
predicted by baseline stratification factors on day 28 of and treatment cycle 3 – C2302 
Page 42/62
≥ 3%
≥ 6%
≥ 9%
≥ 12%
TIP
n    %
TOBI 
n    % 
TIP 
n    % 
TOBI 
n    % 
TIP 
n    % 
TOBI 
n    % 
TIP 
n    % 
TOBI
n    %
Age group (years)
   6-12 
16  57.1  11  73.3  14  50.0  8   53.3  12  42.9 
7  46.7 
11  39.3 
7  46.7 
  13-19 
  >=20 
33  60.0  19  47.5  27  49.1  16  40.0  21  38.2  13  32.5  19  34.5  11 27.5 
55  38.2  48  41.4  43  29.9  42  36.2  37  25.7  32  27.6  27  18.8  27 23.3 
Baseline FEV1 % predicted
< 50 
≥ 50 
Chronic macrolide use 
Yes 
no 
50 36.5 
54 60.0 
40  50.0  31  43.7  33  41.3  28  39.4  31  38.8  25  35.2  26  32.5  23 32.4
64  43.5  47  47.0  51  34.7  38  38.0  39  26.5  27  27.0  31  21.0  22 22.0
44 43.1  37  27.0  36  35.3  31  22.6  29  28.4  28  20.4  24 23.5
34 49.3  47  52.0  30  43.5  39  43.3  23  33.3  29  32.2  21 30.4
The data trended to favour TOBI above TIP in the adult subgroup with regard to lung function response 
to treatment. About 30% versus 36% of the adult patients in the TIP and TOBI group respectively 
achieved 6% improvement in % predicted FEV1 after 3 cycles of treatment with TIP. In the younger 
patients the response was comparable (in the order of 50% on both treatments). However, the data 
are not unequivocal due to small size of the subgroups and the heterogeneity of the responses in the 
different subgroups which deserve a cautious interpretation.
Therefore, even if it is acknowledged that these clinical data may suggest that TOBI Podhaler and TOBI 
are not entirely comparable in specific subgroups, in the total ITT heterogeneous population TOBI 
Podhaler was statistically non-inferior to TOBI. Indeed  they show that with described differences both 
treatments are of value in an important proportion of patients across evaluated age categories and 
strata defined by baseline FEV1 % predicted and macrolide use.
The FEV1% results in adult naïve patients or in patients who were anti-PA treatment off for more than 
3 or 6 months in study C2302 do not allow meaningful conclusions (although a trend in favour of TOBI 
was apparent) because of the very small numbers of patients of this category included in the study.
There were some regional differences in the spirometric results.  In the Latin American sub-population, 
FEV1 percent of predicted values were lower than for the total ITT population and the previous 
exposure to tobramycin was lower compared to the North America and Europe/ROW regions. Relative 
change from baseline was consistently greater for TIP than TOBI at all post baseline time points. These 
observations should be interpreted with caution because of the small patient numbers (less than 10 for 
each treatment group). 
Several other evaluations of lung function parameters were conducted and assessed, these included:


AUC of FEV1 percent predicted, FVC percent of predicted, FEF25-75 percent predicted. The 
pattern of performance with regard to these parameters was similar in both treatment groups.
PA sputum CFU density for both dry and mucoid biotypes decreased in both TIP and TOBI 
treatment groups at the end (Day 28) of each treatment cycles and increased to almost 
baseline value in the off-treatment period. The mean decrease from baseline was numerically 
greater in the TIP than in the TOBI group on Day 28 of all three treatment cycles.
New anti-PA antibiotic use was greater in the TIP treatment group than in the TOBI treatment group 
(64.9% of TIP patients and 54.5% of TOBI patients); the duration of new anti-PA antibiotic treatment 
was 30.9 days in the TIP group compared with 33.4 days in the TOBI treatment group.
Page 43/62
Antibiotic use associated with hospitalization was 22.1% of TIP treated patients and 21.5% of TOBI 
treated patients. The rate of use of oral antibiotics was 55.5% for TIP and 39.7% for TOBI. 
Newly inhaled antibiotics were used by similar proportions of the patients (8.4% and 7.7% in the TIP 
and TOBI treatment groups respectively). Ciprofloxacin was the most frequently used new anti-PA 
antibiotic during the study (47.7% of TIP patients and 34.0% of TOBI patients), followed by 
tobramycin (26.3% and 24.4% of patients in the TIP and TOBI treatment groups, respectively). These 
data suggest that the difference seen for new anti-PA antibiotic use is largely driven by the use of oral 
ciprofloxacin for milder events (i.e. those not needing i.v antibiotics and/or hospitalization). 
Furthermore, this difference of 10% of mainly oral antibiotic use did not seem to result in clinically 
important differences in outcomes (see above). 
The impact of additional new antibiotic use on the outcome of the study was analysed in post hoc 
analyses. A post-hoc analysis to assess FEV1 and PA CFU reduction outcomes in patients treated with 
TIP or TOBI who had received no additional anti-PA antibiotics (assessing this by cycle and 
cumulatively) indicated that patients who did not receive additional anti-PA antibiotics had comparable 
outcomes to the overall study population during treatment with TIP and TOBI for both FEV1 and PA
CFU reduction. Furthermore, a post-hoc FEV1 non-inferiority analysis conducted by adding the effect of 
new anti-PA antibiotic use and the treatment by new anti-PA antibiotic interaction in the analysis of 
covariance model showed that the one-sided 95% CI is closely comparable to the original non-
inferiority analysis. 
With regard to Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) LS mean assessments of effectiveness, side effects, 
convenience and global satisfaction were similar at Weeks 5, 13 and 21 within each treatment group, 
indicating that patient satisfaction did not alter over the duration of the study. Assessments for 
effectiveness, convenience and global satisfaction were consistently greater for the TIP group than 
TOBI at all visits, indicating a higher level of satisfaction, and for these domains the differences were 
statistically significant for the mean of all visits assessment (LS mean difference of 9.36 for 
effectiveness, 24.35 for convenience and 5.20 for global satisfaction). As expected significant 
difference between the TIP and TOBI treatment groups were noted for questions related to portability 
and administration duration. TIP administration time was approximately 70% shorter than that for 
TOBI at all weeks. With regard to side effect ratings, no difference between treatment groups were 
noted suggesting that in the patient’s opinion the unwanted effects had a similar impact upon their 
lives. However, this rating system is not consistent with the overall higher rate of AEs and 
discontinuations due to AEs in the TIP group compared to TOBI.
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis)
Because of the difference of design and populations between both pivotal studies no pooled analysis 
was performed.
Clinical studies in special populations
No special studies were provided. See further paediatric data in the pivotal studies.
Supportive studies
Supportive data from one study in healthy volunteers (Study INH-007) and two in CF patients (Study 
TSB-001 and Study TPI001) are provided.
There is also an ongoing Phase III randomised double-blind placebo controlled study (C2303- in Russia, 
Estonia) in cystic fibrosis patients to assess efficacy, safety and pharmacokinetics of tobramycin 
Page 44/62
inhalation powder from a modified manufacturing process (TIP new). The final study report is 
anticipated for December 2011.
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy
The present results from study C2301 indicate that TIP treatment is superior to placebo in the so-
called inhalational tobramycin naive (i.e. no use of TOBI within 4 months prior to entry) patients 6-20 
years of age.  The results of this study are also consistent with the pattern of results obtained after 1 
or 3 cycles with TOBI in so-called inhalational tobramycin naive patients.
In both pivotal studies the improvement in % predicted FEV1 in the TIP group appeared to be 
maintained after the second and 3rd treatment cycles. Supportive results were observed for other lung 
function parameters such as FVC percent of predicted, FEF25-75 percent predicted in both pivotal 
studies. As expected TIP treatment decreased the sputum PA CFU density during Cycle 1 markedly 
more compared to placebo for the dry biotype-2 and for the mucoid biotype-1.  This effect was 
maintained during the successive 2 treatment cycles. The PA CFU density rebounded after 28 days off-
treatment and then decreased again after 28 days of active treatment. A similar pattern was observed 
for TOBI in study C2302, although the impact of TOBI on PA CFU density was less pronounced 
compared to TIP. 
Furthermore, in this study the PRO questionnaire favoured TIP above TOBI especially with regard to 
convenience to the patient; however this was less pronounced with regard to global patient satisfaction. 
As expected, TIP was preferred with regard to aspects of portability and duration of administration. 
The principal efficacy results in study C2302 concerning relative change in percent predicted FEV1 from 
baseline to pre-dose day 28 Cycles 3 showed non-inferiority of  the efficacy of TIP to TOBI in the 
overall ITT heterogeneous population. However, in adults (being the largest subgroup in this 
population) this does not seem as robust as the data in the age group 13-19 years old might indicate. 
Additional post-hoc analyses provided by the applicant seem to suggest that the two products are not 
comparable in specific subgroups even if the presented differences do not seem to be always 
consistent and amenable to clear interpretation. Whilst results by stratified categories for age and 
baseline % predicted FEV1 show a comparable response with both treatments in the younger patients, 
they seem to favour TOBI above TIP in the adult subgroup with regard to lung function response (see 
ancillary analysis section). The pattern towards a lower efficacy in adults compared to younger patients 
is observed with both treatments. However, these data from post-hoc analyses need to be interpreted 
with caution and it is not possible to conclude unequivocally on any apparent difference highlighted in 
limited subgroups. 
The additional analyses included data from patients harbouring tobramycin resistant PA which were 
compared to those with tobramycin susceptible PA at baseline and took into account the baseline lung 
function parameters. They show that both treatments are of value in specific subgroups of patients 
when age, baseline FEV1 % predicted and macrolide use are taken into account.
Colonisation with a resistant PA likely reflects the presence of more advanced disease with limited lung 
function. Considering available data it cannot be dismissed that the resistance breakpoint (i.e. MIC > 8 
μg/mL) is a relevant factor involved in the disease and has impact on lung function measurements.
Whilst it is acknowledged that resistance is not adequately defined for inhaled antibiotics in chronic 
pulmonary infection, this issue can be appropriately managed in clinical practice by monitoring 
patient’s clinical response to therapy.
It is also known that for the deposition of aerosolized powder the steady flow inspiratory rate besides 
PIF is also important; this factor could be a critical point in clinical efficacy in smaller children or adults 
Page 45/62
with low FVC. This might affect the compliance especially in the younger children group who will not be 
able to generate the required flow to aerosolize the powder and who will not be able to take so many 
doses of aerosolized product. The applicant stated that the minimum flow rate required to fluidize and 
disperse TBM100 capsules using the T-326 Inhaler according to the instructions for use is ≤ 35 LPM 
(L/min) based on an in vitro study. Although in this study one third of the patients were children 6-10 
years of age and thus not fully representative of the whole CF population, all patients were able to
generate PIF of 30 L/min.
Finally, the applicant was requested to collect long-term efficacy data for TIP like those documented for 
TOBI (6-12 cycles or more). The applicant has committed to generate this data for TOBI Podhaler with 
the on going study C2303 open extensions, and the new uncontrolled study C2401 (see follow up 
measures). Study C2401 should recruit a sufficiently large number of patients to generate meaningful 
results and include treatment duration of a minimum of 6 cycles to better evaluate long-term tolerance 
and emergence of resistance.
2.6.  Clinical safety
The primary safety population defined by the applicant included patients who received at least one 
dose of study drug and were randomized to either the TIP/TIP/TIP group or the TOBI/TOBI/TOBI group 
in Study C2302. Pooling with data from C2301 was not done because of the differences in study design, 
population demographics, disease characteristics and previous tobramycin exposure between the two 
studies.
Nevertheless, a Supportive Safety Population was also defined and analysed; this included all patients 
who received at least one dose of study drug in Studies C2301 and C2302. Pooled analyses were 
performed on this population to provide an overall assessment of exposure and safety with TIP, TOBI 
and placebo.
This Report will rely primarily on observations per study because of mentioned differences above 
between the studies.
Patient exposure
An overview of the duration of exposure for the Primary Safety Population is given in table 15.
Table 15. Duration of exposure to study medication (Primary safety population- based on
C2302)
Duration 
of 
treatment 
(Days) 
 Total 
TOBI/TOBI/TOBI 
N=209 
TIP/TIP/TIP 
N=308 
Cycle 1 
Cycle 2 
Cycle 2 
Cycle 3 
Cycle 1 
Cycle 3 
308 
234 
209 
264 
178 
171 
1 - 7 
 >7 - 14 
5 (1.6) 
9 (2.9) 
 >14 - 21 
11 (3.6) 
6 (1.9) 
4 (1.3) 
4 (1.3) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.6) 
3 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
1 (0.5) 
3 (1.4) 
1 (0.5) 
0 
2 (1.0) 
1 (0.5) 
0 
2 (1.0) 
 >21 - 28 
114 (37.0) 
89 (28.9) 
66 (21.4) 
71 (34.0) 
47 (22.5) 
48 (23.0) 
120 (57.4) 
161 (52.3) 
169 (54.9) 
>28 
Mean (SD)  27.6 (4.72)  27.8 (4.60) 
28.9 (2.47) 
The denominator for each cycle is the total number of patients exposed to treatment for each treatment group i.e. 
308 TIP and 209 TOBI patients.
A subject is counted in only one duration range, per treatment group.
Duration = last dosing date of study medication in on-treatment cycle - first dosing date of study medication in on-
treatment cycle+1 day.
132 (63.2) 
28.4 (3.41) 
162 (52.6) 
28.9 (3.69) 
128 (61.2) 
28.7 (2.38) 
Page 46/62
An overview of the duration of exposure for the Safety Population in study C2301 is given in table 16.
Table 16. Duration of exposure to study medication (based on C2301)
Duration of 
treatment 
(Days) 
TIP/TIP/TIP 
(N=46) 
Cycle 2 
Cycle 1 
Cycle 3 
Cycle 1 
PLB/TIP/TIP 
(N=49) 
Cycle 2 
Total 
1 - 7 
 >7 - 14 
 >14 - 21 
 >21 - 28 
46 
41 
2 (4.3%) 
2 (4.3%) 
2 (4.3%) 
1 (2.2%) 
1 (2.2%) 
0
14 (30.4%)  8 (17.4%) 
>28 
26 (56.5%) 
Mean (SD) 
26.3 (6.20) 
31 
(67.4%) 
27.9 
(4.40) 
39 
0 
0 
0 
7 
(15.2%) 
32 
(69.6%) 
28.9 
(0.50) 
49 
2 (4.1%) 
3 (6.1%) 
2 (4.1%) 
15 
(30.6%) 
27 
(55.1%) 
25.9 
(6.82) 
41 
0 
0 
0 
Cycle 3 
40 
0 
0 
0 
8 (16.3%) 
9 (18.4%) 
33 
(67.3%) 
31 (63.3%) 
28.8 (0.51) 
28.9 (0.69) 
Note: Subjects randomized to TIP were treated with TIP in Cycles 1-3, while those randomized to placebo received 
placebo only in Cycle 1 followed by TIP in Cycles 2-3.
- A subject is counted in only one duration range, per treatment group.
- Duration = last dosing date of study medication in on-treatment cycle – first dosing date of study medication in 
on-treatment cycle + 1 day.
PLB = placebo
The mean exposure to medication for each cycle ranged between approximately 26 and 29 days per 
cycle in both pivotal studies. This is consistent with the high compliance noted for the study 
populations
Adverse events 
The majority of patients in both the placebo and TOBI Podhaler treatment groups experienced at least 
one AE of any causality (see table 17).  
Table 17 . Summary of AEs: Individual Pivotal Studies
Patients Reporting 
AEs
C2301
Placebo
(n = 49) 
n (%)
TIP (3 
cycles)1
(n = 46) 
n (%)
34 ( 73.9)
37 (75.5%)
10 (20.4%) 10 (21.7)*
TIP (2 
cycles) 2
(n = 41) 
n (%)
30 ( 73.2)
11 (26.8)*
Any AE
Drug-related AEa
 Respiratory, 
thoracic 
& mediastinal 
disorders
C2302
TIP3
(n = 308) 
n (%)
TOBI3
(n = 209 )
 n (%)
278 (90.3)
157 (51.0)
176 (84.2)
42 (20.1)
133 (43.2)
29 (13.9)
SAE
  7 (14.3%) 5 (10.9)
6 (14.6%)
85 (27.4)
61 (29.2)
4 (8.7)
5 (10.2)
 Drug related 
Cougha
a) Drug-related AEs are those with a causality of possible or probable by the investigator.
(1) AEs in all 3 cycles with 3 cycles of TIP treatment in the TIP group.
(2) AEs in last 2 cycles with 2 cycles of TIP treatment after the first placebo exposure in the placebo group.
(3) AEs in any of the 3 cycles.
*  For cycle 1 this was 7 (15.2%)
78 (25.3)
3 (7.3)
9 (4.3)
Page 47/62
The most frequently affected system organ class was respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders, 
for TIP treated and TOBI treated groups. This is also true for the placebo-controlled study.
Drug-related AEs (DR-AEs) were reported by a slightly higher proportion of patients treated with 3 
cycles of TIP than placebo treated patients although the  proportion of patients with drug-related AEs 
in patients treated with TIP for the first cycle was lower than for placebo (15.4 vs. 20.4%). Cough was 
the most frequently reported DR-AE in the placebo group (10.5% vs. 6.5% for TIP), although cough 
was more commonly reported as a baseline symptom for TIP patients than in the placebo group 
(13.0% in TIP arm, 8.2% in TOBI arm). In the TIP group dysgeusia was reported by 6.5% of the 
patients vs. none in the placebo group; similarly for oropharyngeal pain the rates were 4.2% and 0% 
respectively  In study C2302 DR-AEs such as cough, dysphonia, oropharyngeal pain and dysgeusia 
were also more frequently reported in the TIP compared to TOBI; the corresponding percentages were 
25.3%, 12.7% 4.5% and 3.9% vs. 4.3%, 3.3%, 1% and 0.5% in these groups respectively.  
The Kaplan-Meier analysis of time to first event for cough and dysphonia suggested that cough was 
reported in excess in the TIP groups as an AE in the first few days, and thereafter the TIP and TOBI 
curves followed similar trajectories. However, no cough AEs led to discontinuation during the first 28 
days of study C2302. In the latter study, cough events were reported by a greater percentage of 
patients in the on treatment periods than in the off-treatment periods in the TIP group, especially 
during Cycles 2 and 3. In the TOBI group, there was hardly any difference between on and off-
treatment periods for cough events and the rate of cough reporting in the TOBI arm during the off 
period of each cycle was similar to the TIP arm.
Cough was reported as being severe in 2.6% of TIP treated patients and 1.9% of TOBI treated patients, 
moderate in 22.4% and 14.4% of TIP and TOBI patients, and mild in 23.4% and 14.8% of TIP and 
TOBI patients. 
Of note, in the evaluations of airway reactivity, only a few patients in study C2301 (2 on TIP treatment 
and 4 on placebo) in both treatment groups showed a relative change ≥20% decrease in FEV1% 
predicted from pre-dose to 30-minute post-dose (indicative of clinically significant bronchospasm). 
Similar observations were made in the comparison with TIP vs. TOBI in study C2302 with equal 
percentages of reporting of such an effect (5.2-5.3% in any cycle). None of the instances was reported 
as AE or did lead to the study discontinuation of a patient in study C2301 vs. 3 in the TIP group in 
study C2302. However, all of them had variations between pre-post dose FEV1 measurements of less 
than 10%. The investigators suspected a relationship between the events and the study drug.
Haemoptysis was reported as DR-AE in equal frequencies (approximately 3%) in trial C2302 in the TIP 
and TOBI arms. Of note, patients with haemoptysis more than 60 mL at any time within 30 days prior 
to study drug administration were excluded from the pivotal studies. Inhalation of a dry powder may 
induce a cough reflex. The applicant recommends in section 4.4 of the SmPC that the use of TIP in 
patients with active, severe haemoptysis should be undertaken only if the benefits of treatment are 
considered to outweigh the risks of inducing further haemorrhage.
Serious adverse events and deaths
The most frequently reported SAE in both treatment groups in study C2302 was lung disorder (e.g. 
pulmonary exacerbations or exacerbations of CF) followed by haemoptysis, cough, bronchitis, 
dyspnoea, and productive cough consistent with the underlying disease condition.  In less than 5% of 
Page 48/62
the patients they were considered drug-related SAE by the investigator (3% [n=10] on TIP vs. 0.5% 
[n=1] on TOBI), however, they were all related to underlying disease condition. 
In study C2301 cycle 1 SAEs were reported more frequently for placebo (14.3%) vs. 6.5% for TIP.
Five patients enrolled in the completed studies died. There were no patients with treatment related 
deaths in studies C2301 and C2302. 4 TIP patients died in study C2302, 3 had occurred more than 30 
days after the last dose of study medication and were consistent with cystic fibrosis comorbidities; 1 
death occurred 4 days after randomisation (and prior to dosing) to TIP.
Laboratory findings
There were no major changes from baseline to specified time points or between-treatment differences 
observed in study C2301 for any biochemical, haematology parameter and vital signs. Audiology 
function testing in a subgroup of patients in study C2301 (23%) revealed no evidence of TIP induced 
sensorineural hearing loss.  
In study C2302 there was a decrease from baseline in audiology testing (in selected 25.3% of patients) 
for both TIP and TOBI treatment groups. The decrease was of a similar degree in both treatment 
groups, but reported for a higher percentage of patients in the TIP treatment group (25.6% vs. 15.6% 
for TOBI).
In the TOBI audiology population hearing complaints reported were 2 tinnitus, 1 with a humming noise, 
1 with pressure, and 1 unspecified complaint. Hearing complaints tended to be intermittent and 
transient, with many patients who had abnormal hearing at baseline or a history of hearing complaints.
In this study, 28-33% of patients in the treatment groups had elevations in white blood cell counts and 
in 41-46% neutrophil counts above normal range at baseline. Similarly, 20-27 of the patients also had 
serious increased platelet counts above normal range at baseline. In both treatment groups the post-
baseline shifts occurred at similar frequencies. The same holds for clinical chemistry values (including 
serum transaminases and serum creatinine and BUN values).
Microbiological effects
In both studies, there was a tendency toward increased MIC (at least 4-fold) at the end of treatment.
In study C2301, end of Cycle 3 treatment the percentage was 10.9% vs. 2.2% end of cycle 1. In study 
C2302, the percentage of patients with a 4-fold increase in tobramycin MIC at Week 25 was 16% in 
the TIP treatment group vs. 9% in the TOBI group. At the termination visit, the distribution of 
tobramycin MIC more closely resembled that seen at baseline. 
Pathogens other than PA identified in the sputum of the CF patients were mostly pathogens present in 
only a small percentage of patients. The organisms which were present in sputum of more than 10 
patients in each treatment group at baseline were: Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), 
Methicillin susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA), Aspergillus fumigans, Aspergillus fumigatus and 
Haemophilus parainfluenzae. The relationship of observed shifts to low or heavy growth to TIP and 
TOBI treatments is difficult to derive since the population in study C2302 received also other 
intravenous and oral antibiotic treatments. Therefore, mentioned observations should be interpreted 
with caution.
Resistance
The use of any antibiotic (oral, intravenous, or inhaled) is associated with selection of pathogens with 
in vitro resistance by standard testing. Nevertheless, CF patients with chronic P. aeruginosa infection
Page 49/62
harbouring resistant PA detected in sputum cultures may still derive clinical benefits from aerosolized 
tobramycin. It is hypothesized that this may be due to the high concentrations of drug that can be 
delivered to the site of infection. The use of inhaled tobramycin for the long term management of 
chronic P. aeruginosa infection is still being advocated by CF learned societies after more than a 
decade of its use in the target group.6 However, the duration of long-term benefit is not known. As 
described for study C2302 above, the percentages of patients with an increase in tobramycin MIC at 
Week 21 and Week 25 were greater in the TIP treatment group than the TOBI group. At the 
termination visit, the distribution of tobramycin MIC more closely resembled that seen at baseline. The 
majority of samples had a tobramycin MIC of between 0.5 μg/mL and 8 μg/mL. Long-term data 
beyond the presently documented 6 month (3 cycles) experience were not available. Therefore the
applicant has committed to monitor the development of resistance to inhaled tobramycin within the 
context of the RMP. Since there is no established definition and threshold for resistance in the context 
of inhaled therapy and elevated MICs are not predictive of an absence of lung function response, the 
terms susceptibility and resistance should be used appropriately in the monitoring activities as they are 
not synonymous. The clinical interpretation of the resulting data should be based on the obtained 
measurements and clinical findings.
Safety in special populations
Gender
The incidence of patients with cough, lung disorders and dysphonia was slightly higher in females than 
males treated with TIP in study C2302.
Age
The overall numbers of children in the pivotal trials exposed to TIP is appreciable (≥6 - <13: 45 and 28
in C2301 and C2302 respectively; ≥13 - <20: 45 and 66 in C2301 and C2302 respectively). 
Furthermore, the present data together with the experience obtained from the use of TOBI do not 
seem to suggest new safety issues in patients exposed to TIP. The earlier mentioned higher incidence 
of patients with cough and dysphonia with TIP were shown across all age subgroups, while lung 
disorders were more common for TIP in the  ≥13 - <20 years and ≥20 years age subgroups, but 
higher for TOBI in the smaller 6-12 years age subgroup in study C2302.
Race
As expected the overwhelming majority (approximately 90%) of the included patients in the pivotal 
studies was Caucasian. No meaningful race based comparisons of the AEs are possible.
Baseline disease severity
In both studies (C2301 and C2302) the majority of the patients had baseline FEV1 % predicted ≥50%. 
The patients in C2301 were practically naïve to inhalational anti-PA drug whereas the overwhelming 
majority of patients in C2302 were exposed earlier to such treatment. The baseline sputum tobramycin 
MIC was > 8 μg/ml in approximately 22% of the patients in the latter study vs. approximately 10% in 
the former study.
Renal and Hepatic Function
Tobramycin is excreted renally. Serum tobramycin concentrations after inhalational therapy with 
tobramycin are generally very low. The highest average concentration seen in Phase III studies after 
twice-daily inhalation of TIP for 4 weeks was 1.99 ± 0.59 μg/mL (mean ± SD, n=32, in serum samples 
taken 60 minutes after inhalation). These compared favourably with the recommended avoidance of 
6 Cystic Fibrosis Foundation (Flume et al 2007),  Cystic Fibrosis Trust (2009)
Page 50/62
                                               
values greater than 12 μg/mL, which are associated with the toxicity of intravenous tobramycin 
therapy. The mean trough concentrations after bid TIP administration were also in the safe range (at 
least four-fold lower than 2 μg/mL trough levels recommended for a safe systemic therapy with 
tobramycin).
The same precautions hold for TIP as those documented for TOBI in relation to patients with pre-
existing disorders such as renal impairment and neuromuscular disorders
Pregnancy and breast feeding
A report of pregnancy has been received during the follow-up Phase in study C2302; the foetus was 
diagnosed in utero with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and congenital cystic lung. The reported 
anomalies were found not related to study medication. The same precautions hold for TIP as those
documented for TOBI in cases of pregnancy and breast feeding.
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions
The same contraindications and precautions hold for TIP as those documented for TOBI in relation to 
patients with hypersensitivity to aminoglycosides and avoidance of concurrent and/or sequential use of 
TIP with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events
Discontinuations due to AEs were more frequently reported for the TIP treated patients in study C2302.
However, younger patients ≥ 6-<13 years of age had overall a low discontinuation rate due to AEs 
(only 1 patient), compared to 5 patients in the ≥13-<20 age category and 37 (17.3%) in the >20 
years of age. Such a trend was not apparent for the patients in the TOBI arm. In patients ≥13 years of 
age more patients discontinued due to AEs in the TIP arm compared to the TOBI arm. The higher 
frequencies of AEs like cough, chest discomfort, bronchospasm and dysphonia in the TIP group 
compared to the TOBI group were the most frequently distinguishing AEs associated with the use of 
TIP.
In Europe/ROW there was a greater difference in the percentage of patients discontinuing from the 
study between TIP and TOBI groups (28.8% versus 14.1%) than in the All Randomized population, 
with the main difference being as a result of an AE or death.
In study C2301 no AE discontinuations were reported for TIP treated patients.
Post marketing experience
No post-marketing experience is available.
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety
Cough, oropharyngeal pain, dysgeusia and dysphonia appear to be most frequently associated DR-AE 
with the use of TIP in both studies and more frequently reported for TIP than for TOBI. The difference 
is probably caused by TIP being a powder formulation and not due to the excipients (such as sulfuric 
acid which is present in a much lower quantities than in the TOBI dose). An alternative explanation 
coud be that surfactants enhance the penetration of drug particles through the mucous layer, which 
Page 51/62
enables the particles to interact with the epithelium and cilia causing irritation of the cough receptors 
or other receptors localized in the epithelium, ultimately resulting in increased haemoptysis risk. 
In this respect it is not clear whether DSPC (an endogenous lung surfactant) may contribute to cough 
induction by slightly increasing the sputum transport. On the other hand, the dry aspect of the TIP 
powder formulation is more relevant for the observed increased cough potential of the TIP formulation. 
Other so-called DR-AEs in study C2302 should be more critically evaluated as to their relatedness to 
TIP or TOBI beyond the reporting investigators assessment, a number of the listed DR-AEs (e.g. lower 
respiratory tract infection, pulmonary function test decreased etc.) in the corresponding table can be 
questioned as to their true drug-relatedness. Sponsors should try their utmost to re-assess the 
causality of certain DR-AEs especially when the true drug-relatedness raises questions and does not 
appear to be more frequent than the symptoms related to the underlying condition. To that purpose 
the placebo-controlled trials and external independent expert assessments especially for the open non-
inferiority trials can be used. Such an assessment will increase the correct information value of DR-AE 
which are listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC, reducing the risk of blurring information. 
Haemoptysis was reported as DR-AE in equal frequencies (approximately 3%) in trial C2302 in the TIP 
and TOBI arms. Of note, patients with haemoptysis more than 60 ml at any time within 30 days prior 
to study drug administration were excluded from the pivotal studies. Severe (or massive) haemoptysis 
is usually associated with acute pulmonary bleeding >240mL/d and moderate with >100mL/d. Severe 
haemoptysis is a serious complication in CF patients, occurring more commonly in older patients with 
more advanced lung disease.7 In this respect a relevant warning has been included in section 4.4 of 
the SmPC, similarly to TOBI’s, which includes a precaution intended for patients with severe active 
haemoptysis.
In study C2302, discontinuations due to AEs in patients > 20 years of age occurred at a higher rate in 
the TIP group (33%) compared to TOBI treatment (19%). These findings, which suggest that TIP is 
less tolerated than TOBI in a subgroup of the targeted adult patients, are reflected in section 4.4 of the 
SmPC. The higher frequencies of AEs like cough, chest discomfort, bronchospasm and dysphonia in the 
TIP group compared to the TOBI group were most frequently distinguishing AEs associated with the 
use of TIP. The induction of acute bronchospasm and cough should be monitored in the future (see 
Risk Management Plan).
Side effect ratings in PRO showed no difference between treatment groups. However, it is not clear 
how this rating is reconcilable with the overall higher rate of AEs and discontinuations due to AEs in the 
TIP group compared to TOBI. The fact that different items were measured by the AE report and by the 
used PRO questionnaire assessing the impact of side effects, may justify the different results. However 
the results of PRO at least with regard to side effects should be interpreted with caution.
In this study the frequency of serious adverse reactions was similar in both treatment arms.
Notwithstanding differences observed in frequencies of specific adverse reactions, overall no new 
safety issues were observed in patients exposed to TIP compared to TOBI.
In both studies there was a tendency toward increased MIC (at least 4-fold) during treatment with TIP 
(or TOBI in C2302). At the termination visit, the distribution of tobramycin MIC more closely resembled 
that seen at baseline in study C2302. However, the applicant did not present long-term data and 
therefore has committed to monitor the development of resistance to inhaled tobramycin within the 
RMP. 
7 Flume PA, Yankaskas JR, Ebeling M, Hulsey T and Clark LL. “Massive Hemoptysis in Cystic Fibrosis”. Chest 
2005;128;729-738.
Page 52/62
                                               
In regard to the shifts observed to low or heavy growth to TOBI Podhaler and TOBI in other pathogens 
than PA (e.g. MRSA, MSSA, Aspergillus), no conclusions can be drawn as to their relationship to study 
treatment, since the population in study C2302 received also other antibiotic oral and intravenous 
treatments. Therefore, these observations should be interpreted with caution.
No data on the long-term effect on lung function are available. In this respect the applicant has 
committed to obtain long term data from an open extension of the on going study C2303 with 
additional cycles of TIP treatment (6-12 cycles or longer) and from the new study C2401 (see follow-
up measures section).
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.   
Risk management plan
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan.
Table Summary of the Risk Management Plan
Safety concern
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional)
Important identified risk
Cough 
Routine pharmacovigilance
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Adverse drug reactions (Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC)
Table 1: Cough – Very Common
“Description of selected adverse drug reactions
Cough was the most frequently reported adverse 
reaction in both clinical studies. However, no 
association was observed in either clinical study 
between the incidence of bronchospasm and 
cough events.”
Warnings and precautions (Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC)
“Cough can occur with the use of inhaled 
medicinal products and was reported with the use 
of TOBI Podhaler in clinical studies. Based on 
clinical trial data the inhalation powder TOBI 
Podhaler was associated with a higher reported 
rate of cough compared with tobramycin nebuliser 
solution (TOBI). Cough was not related to 
bronchospasm. Children below the age of 13 
years may be more likely to cough when treated 
with TOBI Podhaler compared with older 
subjects.
If there is evidence of continued therapy-induced 
cough with TOBI Podhaler, the physician should 
consider whether an approved tobramycin 
nebuliser solution should be used as an 
Page 53/62
Safety concern
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional)
Bronchospasm
Routine pharmacovigilance
Hemoptysis
Routine pharmacovigilance
Targeted follow-up with the use of 
a hemoptysis 
questionnaire/checklist for all 
serious and non-serious 
spontaneous cases
Important potential risk
Nephrotoxicity
Routine pharmacovigilance
alternative treatment. Should cough remain 
unchanged, other antibiotics should be 
considered.”
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Adverse drug reactions (Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC)
Table 1: Bronchospasm: Common
Warnings and precautions (Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC)
“Bronchospasm
Bronchospasm can occur with inhalation of 
medicinal products and has been reported with 
TOBI Podhaler in clinical studies.
Bronchospasm should be treated as medically 
appropriate.
The first dose of TOBI Podhaler should be given 
under supervision, after using a bronchodilator if 
this is part of the current regimen for the patient. 
FEV1 should be measured before and after 
inhalation of TOBI Podhaler.
If there is evidence of therapy-induced 
bronchospasm, the physician should carefully 
evaluate whether the benefits of continued use of 
TOBI Podhaler outweigh the risks to the patient. If 
an allergic response is suspected, TOBI Podhaler 
should be discontinued.”
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Adverse drug reactions (Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC)
Table 1: Haemoptysis – Very Common
Warnings and precautions (Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC)
“Haemoptysis
Haemoptysis is a complication in cystic fibrosis 
and is more frequent in adults. Patients with 
haemoptysis (> 60 ml) were excluded from the 
clinical studies so no data exist on the use of 
TOBI Podhaler in these patients. This should be 
taken into account before prescribing TOBI 
Podhaler, considering the inhalation powder TOBI 
Podhaler was associated with a higher rate of 
cough (see above). The use of TOBI Podhaler in 
patients with clinically significant hemoptysis 
should be undertaken or continued only if the 
benefits of treatment are considered to outweigh
the risks of inducing further haemorrhage.”
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Warnings and precautions (Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC)
“Nephrotoxicity
Nephrotoxicity has been reported with the use of 
parenteral aminoglycosides.
Nephrotoxicity was not observed during TOBI 
Podhaler clinical studies. Caution should be 
Page 54/62
Safety concern
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional)
Ototoxicity
Routine pharmacovigilance
Targeted follow-up with the use of 
an ototoxicity 
questionnaire/checklist for all 
serious and non-serious 
spontaneous cases
Fetal Harm
Routine pharmacovigilance
Decreased 
Routine pharmacovigilance
exercised when prescribing TOBI Podhaler to 
patients with known or suspected renal 
dysfunction.
Baseline renal function should be assessed. Urea 
and creatinine levels should be reassessed after 
every 6 complete cycles of TOBI Podhaler 
therapy.”
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Adverse drug reactions (Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC)
Table 1: Hearing loss – Common; Tinnitus -
Common
Warnings and precautions (Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC)
“Ototoxicity
Ototoxicity, manifested as both auditory toxicity 
(hearing loss) and vestibular toxicity, has been 
reported with parenteral aminoglycosides. 
Vestibular toxicity may be manifested by vertigo, 
ataxia or dizziness. Tinnitus may be a sentinel 
symptom of ototoxicity, and therefore the onset of 
this symptom warrants caution.
Hearing loss and tinnitus were reported by 
patients in the TOBI Podhaler clinical studies (see 
section 4.8). Caution should be exercised when 
prescribing TOBI Podhaler to patients with known 
or suspected auditory or vestibular dysfunction.
In patients with any evidence of auditory 
dysfunction, or those with a predisposing risk, it 
may be necessary to consider audiological 
assessment before initiating TOBI Podhaler 
therapy.
If a patient reports tinnitus or hearing loss during 
TOBI Podhaler therapy the physician should 
consider referring them for audiological 
assessment.”
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Pregnancy and breastfeeding (Section 4.6 of the 
SmPC)
“Pregnancy
There are no adequate data on the use of 
tobramycin via inhalation in pregnant women.
Animal studies with tobramycin do not indicate a 
teratogenic effect (see section 5.3).
However, aminoglycosides can cause foetal harm 
(e.g. congenital deafness) when high systemic 
concentrations are achieved in a pregnant 
woman. Systemic exposure following inhalation of 
TOBI Podhaler is very low, however TOBI 
Podhaler should not be used during pregnancy 
unless clearly necessary, i.e. when the benefits to 
the mother outweigh the risks to the foetus.
Patients who use TOBI Podhaler during 
pregnancy, or become pregnant while taking 
TOBI Podhaler, should be informed of the 
potential hazard to the foetus.”
This risk is adequately addressed and 
Page 55/62
Safety concern
Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa
susceptibility to 
tobramycin (MIC)
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities
(routine and additional)
Targeted follow-up with the use of 
a decreased 
susceptibility/increased resistance 
questionnaire/checklist for all 
serious and non-serious 
spontaneous cases
Routine pharmacovigilance
Potential drug-drug 
interactions with 
diuretics and other 
drugs affecting renal 
clearance, 
nephrotoxic, 
neurotoxic and 
ototoxic drugs (class 
effect of parenteral 
use of 
aminoglycosides).
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional)
communicated in the SmPC 
Warnings and precautions (Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC)
“The development of antibiotic-resistant P. 
aeruginosa and superinfection with other 
pathogens represent potential risks associated 
with antibiotic therapy. In clinical studies, some 
patients on TOBI Podhaler therapy showed an 
increase in aminoglycoside minimum inhibitory 
concentrations (MIC) for P. aeruginosa isolates 
tested. MIC increases observed were in large part 
reversible during off-treatment periods.
There is a theoretical risk that patients being 
treated with TOBI Podhaler may develop P. 
aeruginosa isolates resistant to intravenous 
tobramycin over time (see section 5.1). 
Development of resistance during inhaled 
tobramycin therapy could limit treatment options 
during acute exacerbations; this should be 
monitored.”
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Warnings and precautions (Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC)
“Other precautions
Patients receiving concomitant parenteral 
aminoglycoside therapy (or any medication 
affecting renal excretion, such as diuretics) 
should be monitored as clinically appropriate 
taking into account the risk of cumulative toxicity. 
This includes monitoring of serum concentrations 
of tobramycin. In patients with a predisposing risk 
due to previous prolonged, systemic 
aminoglycoside therapy it may be necessary to 
consider renal and audiological assessment 
before initiating TOBI Podhaler therapy.
See also “Monitoring of serum tobramycin 
concentrations” above.
Caution should be exercised when prescribing 
TOBI Podhaler to patients with known or 
suspected neuromuscular disorders such as 
myasthenia gravis or Parkinson’s disease. 
Aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle 
weakness because of a potential curare-like 
effect on neuromuscular function.”
Interactions (Section 4.5 of the SmPC)
“No interaction studies have been performed with 
TOBI Podhaler. Based on the interaction profile 
for tobramycin following intravenous and 
aerosolised administration, concurrent and/or 
sequential use of TOBI Podhaler is not 
recommended with other medicinal products with 
nephrotoxic or ototoxic potential.
Concomitant use of TOBI Podhaler with diuretic 
compounds (such as ethacrynic acid, furosemide, 
urea or mannitol) is not recommended. Such 
coumpounds can enhance aminoglycoside 
toxicity by altering antibiotic concentrations in 
serum and tissue.
Page 56/62
Safety concern
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities
(routine and additional)
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional)
See also information on previous and 
concomitant use of systemic aminoglycosides 
and diuretics in section 4.4.
Other medicinal products that have been reported 
to increase the potential toxicity of parenterally 
administered aminoglycosides include:
- amphotericin B, cefalotin, ciclosporin, 
tacrolimus, polymyxins (risk of 
increased nephrotoxicity);
- platinum compounds (risk of increased 
nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity);
- anticholinesterases, botulinum toxin 
(neuromuscular effects).”
This is adequately addressed and communicated 
in the SmPC 
Dosage and administration (Section 4.2 of the 
SmPC)
“Patients with renal impairment
Tobramycin is primarily excreted unchanged in 
the urine and renal function is expected to affect 
the exposure to tobramycin. Patients with serum 
creatinine 2 mg/dl or more and blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN) 40 mg/dl or more have not been 
included in clinical studies and there are no data 
in this population to support a recommendation 
for or against dose adjustment with TOBI 
Podhaler. Caution should be exercised when 
prescribing TOBI Podhaler to patients with known 
or suspected renal dysfunction.
Please also refer to nephrotoxicity information in 
section 4.4”
This is adequately addressed and communicated 
in the SmPC 
Interactions (Section 4.5 of the SmPC)
“No interaction studies have been performed with 
TOBI Podhaler”. Based on the interaction profile 
for tobramycin following intravenous and 
aerosolised administration, concurrent and/or 
sequential use of TOBI Podhaler is not 
recommended with other medicinal products with 
nephrotoxic or ototoxic potential.
Concomitant use of TOBI Podhaler with diuretic 
compounds (such as ethacrynic acid, furosemide, 
urea or mannitol) is not recommended.  Such 
compounds can enhance aminoglycoside toxicity 
by altering antibiotic concentration in serum and 
tissue”
Dosage and administration (Section 4.2 of the 
SmPC) 
“Patients after organ transplantation
Adequate data do not exist for the use of TOBI 
Podhaler in patients after organ transplantation. 
No recommendation for or against dose 
adjustment can be made for patients after organ 
transplantation.”
Should routine pharmacovigilance activities 
and/or open-label study (CTBM100C2401) and 
Page 57/62
Important missing information
Routine pharmacovigilance
Patients with 
moderate or severe 
renal failure not 
included in clinical 
studies
Patients on diuretics 
and other drugs 
affecting renal 
clearance, 
nephrotoxic, 
neurotoxic and 
ototoxic drugs (class 
effect of parenteral 
use of 
aminoglycosides) 
generally not 
included in clinical 
studies
Patients post organ 
transplantation not 
included in clinical 
studies
Routine pharmacovigilance
Routine pharmacovigilance
Potential adverse 
effects of long-term 
Routine pharmacovigilance
Safety concern
use (other than listed 
as potential risks)
Pregnant or lactating 
females
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities
(routine and additional)
Two sequential open-label 
extension studies 
(CTBM100C2303E1 and 
CTBM100C2303E2) of the 
ongoing CTBM100C2303 study 
An open-label study 
(CTBM100C2401) 
Routine pharmacovigilance
Patients with disease 
severity different 
from that studied in 
clinical trials
Patients with co-
morbidities (i.e., 
severe hepatic 
impairment)
Routine pharmacovigilance
Routine pharmacovigilance
Effects of 
medications prior to 
treatment (e.g., 
steroids, other 
antibiotics)
Demographics of risk 
for aminoglycoside-
related deafness in 
both Caucasians and 
Non-Caucasians
Handling of the T-
326 Inhaler in young 
pediatric patients (6-
Routine pharmacovigilance
Routine pharmacovigilance
Routine pharmacovigilance
Usability evaluation of the T-326 
Inhaler in children 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional)
open-label extension studies (CTBM100C2303E1 
and CTBM100C2303E2) uncover additional data, 
this risk will be communicated through the IB, 
CDS, and EU-SmPC and additional risk 
minimization activities may be proposed if 
necessary.
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Pregnancy and breastfeeding (Section 4.6 of 
SmPC)
“(...)Systemic exposure following inhalation of 
TOBI Podhaler is very low, however TOBI 
Podhaler should not be used during pregnancy 
unless clearly necessary, i.e. when the benefits to 
the mother outweigh the risks to the foetus.
Patients who use TOBI Podhaler during 
pregnancy, or become pregnant while taking 
TOBI Podhaler, should be informed of the 
potential hazard to the foetus.
Breastfeeding
Tobramycin is excreted in human breast milk after 
systemic administration. The amount of 
tobramycin excreted in human breast milk after 
administration by inhalation is not known, though 
it is estimated to be very low considering the low 
systemic exposure. Because of the potential for 
ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity in infants, a 
decision should be made whether to terminate 
breast-feeding or discontinue treatment with TOBI 
Podhaler, taking into account the importance of 
the treatment to the mother.”
Should routine pharmacovigilance activities 
uncover additional data, this risk will be 
communicated through the IB, CDS, and EU-
SmPC and additional risk minimization activities 
may be proposed if necessary.
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Dosage and Administration (Section 4.2 of the 
SmPC)
“Patients with hepatic impairment
No studies have been performed on patients with 
hepatic impairment. As tobramycin is not 
metabolised, an effect of hepatic impairment on 
the exposure to tobramycin is not expected.”
Should routine pharmacovigilance activities 
uncover additional data, this risk will be 
communicated through the IB, CDS, and EU-
SmPC and additional risk minimization activities 
may be proposed if necessary.
Should routine pharmacovigilance activities 
uncover additional data, this risk will be 
communicated through the IB, CDS, and EU-
SmPC and additional risk minimization activities 
may be proposed if necessary.
This risk is adequately addressed and 
communicated in the SmPC 
Dosage and administration (Section 4.2 of the 
Page 58/62
Safety concern
10 years)
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities
(routine and additional)
(TBM100C_HANDP_T-326 
USABILITY STUDY_01) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional)
SmPC)
“Caregivers should provide assistance to children 
starting TOBI Podhaler treatment, particularly 
those aged 10 years or younger, and should 
continue to supervise them until they are able to 
use the Podhaler device properly without help.”
Should routine pharmacovigilance activities 
and/or the usability evaluation of the T-326 
Inhaler in children (TBM100C_HANDP_T-326 
USABILITY STUDY_01) uncover additional data, 
this risk will be communicated through the IB, 
CDS, and EU-SmPC and additional risk 
minimization activities may be proposed if 
necessary.
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information.
User consultation
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use.
2.8.  Benefit-risk balance 
Benefits
The objective of treatment by inhalation with TOBI Podhaler as recommended in cycles of 28 days on-
treatment followed 28 days off-treatment in the management of CF patients with chronic PA infection 
of the lung is improvement of lung function. In this regard, the two pivotal studies in CF patients who 
were either naïve to inhalational tobramycin (C2301) or tobramycin experienced patients (C2302)
showed positive results. In line with the CHMP CF-guideline, change in percent predicted FEV1 from 
baseline was used as the primary end point and the need for additional anti-PA antibiotics to treat 
acute exacerbation of the lung disease, and change from baseline with regard to PA growth density as 
key secondary efficacy parameters. 
TOBI Podhaler showed to be superior to placebo in the first treatment cycle in the placebo-controlled 
study C2301. This can be considered as proof of concept, as the lung function results after the 2nd and 
3rd cycle of treatment were consistent with those of patients in TOBI Podhaler group after the 1st cycle. 
The second study C2302 showed that TOBI Podhaler was at least as efficacious as TOBI after 3 cycles 
of treatment in CF patients, although the effect in terms of relative change in percent predicted FEV1
from baseline, was less evident in the group of adult patients > 20 years of age. The differential effect, 
together with the observed higher discontinuation rate due to AEs in the adult patients, is reflected in 
the SmPC. The results from the subgroup analyses suggest that both treatments are of value in an 
important proportion of patients across age categories and strata defined by baseline FEV1 % 
predicted and macrolide use.
Page 59/62
As expected, TOBI Podhaler treatment decreased the sputum PA CFU density for specific biotypes 
during Cycle 1 markedly more compared to placebo. This decrease was also observed in study C2302, 
although the impact of TOBI on PA CFU density was less pronounced compared to TOBI Podhaler.
In addition, the PRO questionnaire favoured TOBI Podhaler above TOBI especially with regard to 
convenience (i.e. portability and duration of administration) to the patient. Remarkably, TIP 
administration time was approximately 70% shorter than that for TOBI at all weeks.
Long-term efficacy data like those documented for TOBI (12 cycles or more) are not available for TOBI 
Podhaler. The known efficacy profile for TOBI is supportive to some extent but not sufficient to address 
the long-term efficacy profile of the inhalation powder TOBI Podhaler due to the differences in the 
formulations and patient characteristics. The applicant has committed to collect long-term efficacy data 
from the ongoing Phase III study C2303 extensions and from the new open uncontrolled study C2401.
Given that the sensitivity of the pivotal study C2302 to detect predictive factors may have been
compromised by the small data base, impact of age and prior exposure to inhaled tobramycin, the 
applicant has been requested to also explore predictive factors of poor or good clinical response 
(efficacy/tolerance) to TOBI Podhaler in the long-term (see follow-up measures).
Risks
Cough, oropharyngeal pain, dysgeusia and dysphonia were the most frequently associated DR-AE with 
the use of TOBI Podhaler in both studies and were more frequently reported compared to TOBI in 
C2302. The difference is probably caused by TOBI Podhaler being a powder formulation and not due to 
the excipients (such as sulfuric acid which is present in a much lower quantities than in the TOBI 
dose). Discontinuations due to AEs in patients > 20 years of age occurred at a higher rate in the TOBI 
Podhaler than in the TOBI group, which suggests that TIP is less tolerated than TOBI in an important 
proportion of the targeted adult patients. With regard to side effect ratings, in PRO report no difference 
between treatment groups were noted suggesting that in the patient’s opinion the unwanted effects
had a similar impact upon their lives.
No differences in serious adverse reactions between TOBI Podhaler and TOBI were shown.
Haemoptysis was reported as DR-AE in equal frequencies for TOBI Podhaler and TOBI. Of note, 
patients with haemoptysis more than 60 ml at any time within 30 days prior to study drug 
administration were excluded from the pivotal studies. Furthermore there is a possibility that the risk 
of increased rates of haemoptysis may be higher for patients using the inhalation powder TOBI 
Podhaler in real life because of the high rate of induced cough in such patients. Given the above 
concerns a relevant warning on haemoptysis has been included in section 4.4 of the SmPC
Notwithstanding differences observed in frequencies of specific adverse reactions, overall no new 
safety issues were observed in patients exposed to TIP compared to TOBI.
No new issues related to laboratory findings or drug-drug interactions were noted for TOBI Podhaler
compared to TOBI. 
In both studies there was a tendency toward increased MIC during treatment with TOBI Podhaler.
Since there are no data beyond the presently documented 6 months (3 cycles), the applicant will 
monitor changes in the susceptibility/resistance to tobramycin within the Risk Management Plan 
activities.
Long-term data are not available to assess the long-term safety of TOBI Podhaler. Therefore, the 
applicant has committed to collect data on the long-term effect on lung function, safety and 
Page 60/62
development of resistance. Information will be obtained in the extensions of the ongoing study C2303 
with additional cycles (6-12) and in the new study C2401.
Other safety concerns, such as medication errors, monitoring of outcome of use in  children 6-13 years 
of age, due to potential mishandling issues, haemoptysis, hearing loss, nephrotoxicity and adverse 
events occurring from off-label use, will be closely monitored by the applicant and discussed in the 
PSURs (see follow-up measures).
Benefit-risk balance
The above mentioned clinical benefits of TOBI Podhaler together with improved convenience, 
portability and shorter duration of administration for the patient outweigh the potential increased risk 
of unfavourable effects such as cough, oropharyngeal pain, dysgeusia and dysphonia. This seems to be 
of a lower magnitude in adult patients previously exposed to inhaled tobramycin, when the effect in 
this subgroup, increased discontinuation rate and potential for a greater risk of haemoptysis are 
considered.  However, notwithstanding all the highlighted uncertainties, it is considered that also in the 
adult population the benefit of TOBI Podhaler outweighs the risks which are essentially linked to 
tolerability aspects in a portion of the population to be treated.  
Relevant information on efficacy and tolerability in different age groups has been included in the SmPC
to allow health-care professionals to choose the appropriate inhalational tobramycin for their CF 
patients in this indication considering the tolerability of the available products and individual patient’s 
characteristics. Long-term efficacy and safety for TOBI Podhaler are not currently available; such data 
are deemed necessary since data available for TOBI cannot be extrapolated entirely to TOBI Podhaler. 
The applicant has committed to generate long-term data from study C2303 extensions, and to perform 
a new study, C2401, which will include both paediatric and adult patients. Study C2401 will also 
explore the presence of any potential baseline or demographic factor that would predict patients’ 
response to TOBI Podhaler (see follow-up measures).
2.8.1.  Risk management plan
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that: 


Pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.
2.8.2.  Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products
The applicant included in module 1.7.1 an assessment based on comparing the product with authorised 
orphan medicinal products in the context of similarity as defined in Art. 3 of Commission Regulation 
(EC) No. 847/2000 based on the three criteria for assessing similarity: molecular structural features,
mechanism of action, and therapeutic indication. The only approved product with an Orphan 
Designation for cystic fibrosis aimed at P. aeruginosa lung infection is Cayston (aztreonam lysine). 
Cayston is approved for use in adult cystic fibrosis patients. 
Page 61/62
The CHMP is of the opinion that TOBI Podhaler is not similar to Cayston within the meaning of the 
above mentioned Regulation.
2.8.3.  Significance of paediatric studies
The CHMP is of the opinion that study C2302, which is contained in the agreed Paediatric Investigation 
Plan and has been completed after 26 January 2007, is considered as significant.
2.8.4.  Conformity with agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan
The CHMP concluded that study C2302 is in conformity with the agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan.
2.9.  Recommendation
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  TOBI  Podhaler  in  the  “treatment  of suppressive  therapy  of  chronic 
pulmonary  infection  due  to  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  in  adults  and  children  aged  6 years  and  older 
with  cystic  fibrosis”  was  favourable and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation.
Furthermore, the CHMP takes note that the agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan is not fully completed 
yet as only some of the measures are completed. The CHMP reviewed the already available paediatric 
data of studies subject to this plan and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet.
In accordance with Article 45(3) of Regulation EC (No) 1901/2006, significant studies in the agreed 
paediatric investigation plan have been completed after the entry into force of that Regulation.
In  addition,  the  CHMP,  with  reference  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  EC  No  141/2000,  considers  TOBI 
Podhaler  not  to  be  similar  (as  defined  in  Article  3  of  Commission  Regulation  EC  No.  847/2000)  to 
Cayston for the same therapeutic indication.
Page 62/62
