EMA/342695/2010 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Assessment report 
Tolura 
International Nonproprietary Name: telmisartan 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001196 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
Page 
1  Background information on the procedure ............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier......................................................................................3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product.........................................................3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction.........................................................................................................5 
2.2. Quality aspects ....................................................................................................5 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ..............................................................................................8 
2.4. Clinical aspects ....................................................................................................8 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance.............................................................................................. 11 
2.6. Conclusions on Clinical aspects ............................................................................ 11 
Page 2/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Krka,  d.d.,  Novo  mesto  submitted  on  03  July  2009  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Tolura, in accordance with the centralised 
procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004  under  Article  3  (3)  – 
‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 10(1) / Generic application of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is:  
(cid:31) Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Micardis 20 mg, 40 mg, 80 mg tablets 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation:  (dd-mm-yyyy) 16th December 1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
Community 
  (cid:131) Community Marketing Authorisation number(s): EU/1/98/090/001-020 
o 
(cid:31) Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
(cid:131) Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Micardis 80 mg tablets 
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
(cid:131) Date of authorisation:  (dd-mm-yyyy) 16th December 1998  
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o 
Community 
(cid:131) Community Marketing Authorisation number(s): EU/1/98/090/005-008, 014, 016, 018, 020 
(cid:131) Member State of source: Germany 
(cid:131) Bioavailability study reference number: 08-221 
1.1.1.  Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was János Borvendég. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The application was received by the Agency on 3 July 2009. 
The procedure started on 22 July 2009.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 9 October 2009. 
• 
• 
• 
•  During  the  meeting  on  16-19  November  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions  to  be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the 
applicant on 19 November 2009. 
Page 3/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
18 December 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 29 January 2010. 
•  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  15-18  February  2010,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of  Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
• 
• 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
24 February 2010. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the CHMP List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 3 March 2010. 
•  During  the  meeting  on  15-18  March  20010,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data  submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Tolura on 18 March 2010. 
• 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 4 June 2010. 
Page 4/12
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Tolura is indicated for the treatment of essential hypertension in adults. Telmisartan active substance 
is  an  orally  active  and  specific  angiotensin  II  receptor  (type  AT1)  antagonist.  Telmisartan  displaces 
angiotensin  II  with  very  high  affinity  from  its  binding  site  at  the  AT1  receptor  subtype,  which  is 
responsible  for  the  known  actions  of  angiotensin  II.  The  active  substance  selectively  binds  the  AT1 
receptor  and  does  not  exhibit  any  partial  agonist  activity  at  the  AT1  receptor.  The  binding  is  long-
lasting.  It  does  not  show  affinity  for  other  receptors,  including  AT2  and  other  less  characterised  AT 
receptors.  The  functional  role  of  these  receptors  is  not  known,  nor  is  the  effect  of  their  possible 
overstimulation by angiotensin II, whose levels are increased by telmisartan. Plasma aldosterone levels 
are decreased by telmisartan. Telmisartan does not inhibit human plasma renin or block ion channels, 
neither  inhibits  angiotensin  converting  enzyme  (kininase  II),  the  enzyme  which  also  degrades 
bradykinin. Therefore it is not expected to potentiate bradykinin-mediated adverse effects. 
Tolura 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg tablets are generic of the centrally authorised Micardis 20 mg, 40 mg 
and 80 mg tablets.  
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  telmisartan  has  been  demonstrated  in  several  well-controlled  studies.  A 
summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of the reference product Micardis. 
The  reference  product  was  authorized  in  the  Community  on  16th  December  1998  for  Boehringer 
Ingelheim International GmbH. Bioequivalence to the reference product from the German market was 
demonstrated  at  the  highest  strength.  Regarding  the  lower  strengths  of  Tolura  a  biowaiver  has  been 
accepted since all the requirements as per Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability and 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) are fulfilled. 
The  indication  proposed  for  Tolura  is  different  from  the  reference  medicinal  product.  It  is  part  of  the 
indication approved for the reference medicinal product. 
The therapeutic indication of Tolura is: 
Treatment of essential hypertension in adults. 
The therapeutic indication of Micardis is:  
Treatment of essential hypertension in adults. 
Reduction of cardiovascular morbidity in patients with: 
i)  manifest  atherothrombotic  cardiovascular  disease  (history  of  coronary  heart  disease,  stroke,  or 
peripheral arterial disease) or 
ii) type 2 diabetes mellitus with documented target organ damage. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Tolura  is  presented  as  immediate  release  tablets,  containing  20,  40  and  80mg  of  telmisartan  as  the 
active substance. 
Other  ingredients  are  defined  in  the  SPC  section  6.1.  All  strengths  have  the  same  proportional 
composition.   
The tablets are packaged in OPA/Alu/PVC/Alu blister packs. 
Page 5/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
The  active  substance  of  Tolura  is  telmisartan,  which  has  the  chemical  name:  2-(4-{[4-methyl-6-(1-
methyl-1H-1,3-benzodiazol-2-yl)-2-propyl-1H-1,3-benzodiazol-1-yl]methyl}phenyl)benzoic  acid. 
It 
corresponds to the molecular formula  C33H30N4O2 and relative molecular mass of 514.6. It appears as 
White  to  slightly  yellowish  crystalline  powder,  practically  insoluble  to  water,  and  slightly  soluble  to 
methanol. 
Its pKa has been measured 4.45 ± 0.09 and the logP: 7.7 
Two different crystalline forms denoted as Form A and Form B are described in the literature. Krka is 
using  one  of  these  crystalline  forms,  however,  this  characteristic  is  not  of  relevance  in  drug  product 
manufacturing process. 
2.2.2.1.  Manufacture 
The  active  substance  is  supplied  by  two  manufacturers.  For  one  of  them  a  Certificate  of  Suitability 
(CEP) granted by the EDQM has been presented covering the manufacturing. 
The  manufacturing  process  employed  by  the  other  active  substance  manufacturer  comprised  of  a 
number of synthetic, crystallisation and purification steps. Specifications of starting materials, reagents 
and solvents used were provided. Critical steps and in-process controls have been properly defined and 
sufficiently described. 
2.2.2.2.  Specification 
Telmisartan  is  described  in  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  (Ph.  Eur).  The  specification  of  the  active 
substance  as  set  up  by  the  drug  product  manufacturer  includes  tests  and  limits  for  appearance 
(visual),  solubility  (Ph.Eur.),  identification  (IR),  appearance  of  solution  (Ph.Eur.),  related  substances 
(HPLC), loss on drying (Ph.Eur.), sulphated ash (Ph.Eur.), assay (Ph.Eur.) and residual solvents (GC). 
Except  for  residual  solvents,  all  the  tests  are  performed  according  to  the  procedures  described  in 
Ph.Eur.  monograph  for  telmisartan  and  Ph.Eur.  general  procedures.  Additional  testing  methods  and 
limits  have  been  included  for  the  XRD  pattern  from  the  first  manufacturer  and  for  a  specific  process 
related impurity from the second manufacturer. The batch analysis results showed that the contents of 
this additional impurity in all tested batches are comparable and are below the limit of identification set 
in accordance with ICHQ3A Guideline on Impurities and Ph.Eur. general monograph. 
Analytical  test  results  of  three  batches  of  telmisartan  from  the  first  manufacturer  and  five  from  the 
second were provided. Batch sizes, manufacturing sites and dates are indicated. All the results comply 
with  the  actual  specification.  The  results  confirm  batch  to  batch  consistency  and  uniformity  of  the 
quality of the substance and indicate that the process is under control.  
2.2.2.3.  Stability 
The CEP provided by one of the manufacturers covers the re-test period and packaging material. 
Three  production  scale  batches  manufactured  by  the  second  manufacturer  have  been  stored  over  12 
months under 25°C/60% RH (long term), 6 months under 40°C/75% RH (accelerated) conditions and 
also for photostability. 
After 12 months of storage at long term conditions in packaging representative of those intended for 
commercial  use,  all  parameters  comply  with  the  requirements  and  no  trend  was  observable.  In  the 
accelerated  conditions  all  the  results  remain  within  specification  and  no  significant  change  was 
observed. 
Page 6/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.3.   Finished Medicinal Product 
2.2.3.1.  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  aim  of  the  development  was  to  obtain  an  immediate-release  tablet  containing  qualitatively  and 
quantitatively  the  same  drug  substance  and  exhibiting  the  same  bioavailability  as  the  reference 
product.  
Most  of  development  work  was  performed  on  one  tablet  strength.  The  other  two  strengths  were 
prepared by proportional decrease or increase of the tablet weight. 
In the early stages of the formulation development different types of manufacturing process were tried 
until optimal process was reached. It has been shown that the particle size of telmisartan is irrelevant 
and no specification for particle size is set. 
In  the  early  stage  of  development,  various  dissolution  conditions  were  tested  in  order  to  find  a 
discriminative  testing  method.  Dissolution  studies  were  performed  on  reference  product  and  Tolura 
tablets in different dissolution media in physiological pH range (pH 1 – pH 6.8). The similarity factors 
(f2)  in  all  tested  media  are  higher  than  50  therefore  dissolution  profiles  can  be  considered  similar 
supporting  the  biowaiver  for  the  two  lower  strengths.  Another  study  demonstrated  the  discriminative 
nature of the selected dissolution method. 
The impurity profiles of Tolura tablets and of the reference product are considered similar. 
Tolura is packaged in blister packs consisting of OPA/Al/PVC film and aluminium foil. 
2.2.3.2.  Adventitious agents 
Tolura  tablets  contain  lactose  monohydrate.  Supplier  of  lactose  monohydrate  provided  confirmations 
regarding TSE/BSE risk. 
2.2.3.3.  Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  considered  as  a  standard  process  which  includes  the  following  main 
steps: granulation, mixing, tabletting and packaging. The product is manufactured in two sites.  
Based  on  the  obtained  results  during  the  process  development  and  manufacture  of  the  dosage  form 
the critical steps have been identified and appropriate in-process controls have been set up. Validation 
protocol  for  the  production  batches,  valid  for  all  production  sites  has  been  provided.  Concurrent 
process validation will be performed on three consecutive commercial batches. 
2.2.3.4.  Product specification 
The  release  and  shelf  life  specification  of  Tolura  includes  tests  and  limits  for  appearance  (visually), 
identification  of  drug  substance  (HPLC,  TLC,  only  at  release),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (Ph.Eur.), 
disintegration  (Ph.Eur.),  related  substances  (HPLC),  dissolution  (UV,  Ph.Eur.),  assay  (HPLC),  and 
microbiological contamination (Ph.Eur.- non routinely). 
Batch  analysis  data  of  two  batches  of  each  of  strength  from  both  sites  were  presented.  All  the 
presented  results  were  within  the  specification  limits  and  confirm  both  the  consistency  of  production 
and  good  performance  of  the  analysis  methods.  It  can  be  concluded  that  the  analytical  tests  are 
suitable, manufacturing process and analysis are well controlled.  
2.2.3.5.  Stability of the product 
Two  pilot  batches  of  each  strength  were  put  on  long-term  (25±2°C/60±5%RH)  and  accelerated 
(40±2°C/75±5%RH)  stability  testing  conditions  packaged  in  the  material  proposed  for  the  marketed 
product. 
Page 7/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
Photostability test was performed according to the ICH Guideline Q1B on one batch of each strength. 
Results of stability tests of batches stored at long-term for up to 12 months as well as at accelerated 
conditions  for  six  months  showed  no  significant  changes  in  the  chemical  and  physical  properties 
investigated.  
Slight  change  in  colour  of  the  tablets  was  observed  after  photostability  test.  All  other  parameters 
comply with the prescribed specifications after photostability test. 
Based  on  the  stability  data  presented  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  can  be  accepted 
for Tolura. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Information on development, manufacture  and control of the drug substance and 
drug  product  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate 
satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn 
lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform  performance  in  the 
clinic. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Telmisartan is a widely used well-known active substance. Its pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and 
toxicological  properties  are  well  characterised  and  new  non-clinical  studies  were  not  provided.  No 
further studies are required and the applicant has justified why no such data was provided. 
The non-clinical overview provided was based on a literature review, which is considered appropriate.  
All excipients and other ingredients are approved products used within recommended limits.  However, 
Tolura  contains  lactose  while  the  reference  product  Micardis  does  not.    Lactose  is  a  well-known 
excipient but this change might be of importance to patients with lactose intolerance.  
Introduction  of  the  product  on  the  market  is  unlikely  to  result  in  any  significant  increase  in  the 
combined  sales  volumes  for  all  telmisartan  products,  and  would  thus  not  be  expected  to  have  an 
adverse effect on the environment.  Taking this into account and on the basis of the CHMP Guideline 
on  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CPMP/SWP/4447/00),  a 
formal environmental risk assessment is not considered necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The CHMP assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of one bioequivalence study. 
2.4.2.  GCP 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  that  the  bioequivalence  study  was  performed  in  accordance 
with GCP and the ethical requirements of Directive 2001/20. The clinical, analytical and statistical parts 
of  the  study  were  performed  by  Clinical  Research  Organisation  (CRO)  in  Canada,  which  has  been 
inspected by different EU regulatory agencies and also by FDA, ANVISA and HPFB of Canada. Following 
these inspections CRO was found to be compliant with the regulatory requirements 
Page 8/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Study 08-221 
• 
Methods 
The  bioequivalence  study  with  Telmisartan  80  mg  tablets  (Study  08-221)  was  a  single-dose, 
randomized,  two-way  cross-over  study  conducted  under  fasting  conditions  with  a  2 week  washout 
period between the doses. The test product (Telmisartan 80 mg tablets, manufactured by KRKA) was 
compared with the reference (Micardis 80 mg tablets, manufactured by Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, 
Germany). 
70  healthy  male  volunteers  were  enrolled  in  the  study  and  68  completed  the  study  in  its  entirety. 
Pharmacokinetic and statistical analyses were performed on the data from all subjects that completed 
the study in its entirety. 
The trial and analysis of the data were complied with Note for Guidance concerning bioavailability and 
bioequivalence trials (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98). 
Study Code:  
Clinical Study Period: 
• 
Results 
08-221 
2008/09/08 to 2008/10/23 
PARAMETER 
TEST 
REFERENCE 
MEAN 
C.V. (%) 
MEAN 
C.V. (%) 
Cmax (ng/mL) 
195.91 
58.9 
178.80 
56.1 
tmax (hours)* 
1.00 
65.0 
1.25 
63.7 
AUCt (ng-h/mL) 
1210.03 
67.5 
1194.34 
74.2 
AUC∞ (ng-h/mL) 
1811.89 
53.6 
1835.12 
58.9 
AUCt/ AUC∞  (%) 
84.88 
9.4 
83.92 
9.4 
* Median 
PARAMETER 
INTRA-
GEOMETRIC LSMEANS * 
SUBJECT 
CV (%) 
33.5 
18.2 
15.7 
Cmax 
AUCt 
AUC∞ 
• 
Discussion 
RATIO 
(%) 
90% CONFIDENCE 
LIMITS (%) 
TEST 
REFERENCE 
LOWER 
UPPER 
165.20 
152.22 
108.53 
98.85 
119.15 
952.81 
896.06 
106.33 
100.97 
111.98 
1449.72 
1442.52 
100.50 
94.64 
106.73 
This  study  confirms  that  the  test  product  (Tolura  80mg  tablets)  is  bioequivalent  to  the  Reference 
formulation (Micardis 80mg tablets) with respect to rate and extent of availability.   
Page 9/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  study  was  conducted  according  to  Good  Clinical  and  Good  Laboratory  Practice.  The  submitted 
documentation  is  sufficiently  detailed  to  make  a  reliable  assessment.  There  is  not  any  sign  of 
misconduct or not following the recommendations of the relevant guidelines.  
The  design  employed  was  appropriate  for  bioequivalence  studies.  A  single  dose  study  is  considered 
appropriate in view of the fact that telmisartan does not accumulate during repeated administration. It 
was a good choice of carrying out the bioequivalence study with the highest strength since telmisartan 
concentrations increases faster than the dose in the requested dose range (20mg – 80 mg). 
The mean AUCt/AUCinf ratios were 84.9% and 83.9 % for the Test and the Reference  products, 
respectively.  These  values  are  above  the  requirements  (80%)  and  they  indicate  that  the  sampling 
period was sufficiently long.  
Telmisartan  can  be  considered  a  highly  variable  drug  because  the  within-subject  variability  of  Cmax 
was 33.5%. However the study power was enough to meet the conventional 80%-125% criterion. 
The 90% geometric confidence intervals of the ratio (Test/Reference) of least-squares  means  of 
the 
log transformed data were within the internationally accepted range of 80% and 125% for AUC0-t and 
for Cmax as well.     
These  results  also  show  that  the  biowaiver  can  be  granted  for  the  lower  strengths  because  the 
formulation is proportional and strengths not tested in the bioequivalence study show similar behaviour 
in the whole range of physiological pH values including pH 1.  
No serious adverse events were recorded in 70 subjects during conduct of this trial, while 22 subjects 
experienced  a  total  of  36  adverse  events.  20  adverse  events  (15  different  types)  were  reported 
administration  of  the  test  product  and  21  adverse  events  (16  different  type)  were  reported  after 
administration  of  the  reference  product.  5  adverse  events  associated  with  post-trial  laboratory  test 
were imputed to both product. 4 possibly related events were unexpected (blood alkaline phosphatase 
increased, blood bilirubine increased, neutrophil count decreased and libido decreased). 
The indication of Tolura is different from that of the reference medicinal product, Micardis (please see 
section  2.1).  Thus,  the  Product  Information  has  been  adequately  amended to reflect  this  change  and 
this is considered acceptable.  
(cid:131) 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Tolura is considered bioequivalent with Micardis. 
2.4.4.  Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted, which is acceptable. 
2.4.5.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
Page 10/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
2.5.1.  Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, as described in 
version  DescPhSys000001/17,  is  in  place  and  functioning  before  and  whilst  the  product  is  on  the 
market. 
PSUR cycle 
The  PSUR  submission  schedule  should  follow  the  PSUR  schedule  for  the  reference  product  Micardis. 
Thus, the MAH will have to submit PSURs on a yearly basis, unless otherwise specified by the CHMP.  
2.5.2.  Risk management plan 
Not applicable. The application is based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns 
requiring specific risk minimization activities have been identified. 
The present procedure is a generic application. Given the safety profile of the reference product, which 
is  considered  well  established  since  it  has  been  on  the  market  for  more  than  10  years,  and  the 
demonstrated bioequivalence between the Tolura tablets and the reference product, the CHMP agrees 
that no RMP is needed and no risk minimization activities in addition to the recommendations included 
in the SmPC and Package Leaflet are necessary. 
2.5.2.1.  User consultation 
The criterion for a successful Readability Test was fulfilled. The information presented on user testing 
of the package leaflet was judged acceptable. 
2.6.  Conclusions on Clinical aspects 
2.6.1.  Benefit-risk balance  
Telmisartan is a widely used well-known active substance. Its pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and 
toxicological  properties  are  well  characterised  and  new  non-clinical  studies  were  not  provided.  No 
further studies are required and the applicant has justified why no such data was provided. The non-
clinical overview provided was based on a literature review, which is considered appropriate.  
The  efficacy,  safety  and  clinical  pharmacology  of  the  active  ingredient  telmisartan  are  already  well-
established  and  documented  for  the  reference  product  Micardis.  The  CHMP  assessment  addressed 
pharmacokinetic data in respect of one bioequivalence study. 
The  bioequivalence  study  confirms  that  the  test  product  Tolura  80  mg  tablets  is  bioequivalent  to  the 
Reference formulation Micardis 80 mg tablets with respect to rate and extent of availability, and is well 
tolerated.  The  conclusions  of  the  bioequivalence  study  conducted  with  the  80  mg  tablets  can  be 
extrapolated for the 20mg and 40mg strengths.  
Page 11/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no new data, which would change the benefit/risk ratio of using telmisartan in general. 
The  indication  proposed  for  Tolura  is  different  from  the  reference  medicinal  product.  It  is  part  of  the 
indication approved for the reference medicinal product. 
The therapeutic indication of Tolura is: 
Treatment of essential hypertension in adults. 
2.6.2.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of Tolura in the Treatment of essential hypertension in adults was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 12/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
