EMA/511497/2011  
EMEA/H/C/1196 
EPAR summary for the public 
Tolura 
telmisartan 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Tolura. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Tolura. 
What is Tolura? 
Tolura is a medicine that contains the active substance telmisartan. It is available as white tablets 
(round: 20 mg; oval: 40 mg; capsule-shaped: 80 mg). 
Tolura is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Tolura is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the European Union (EU) called Micardis. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Tolura used for? 
Tolura is used to treat essential hypertension (high blood pressure) in adults. ‘Essential’ means that 
the hypertension has no obvious cause. 
Tolura is also used to prevent cardiovascular problems (problems with the heart and blood vessels) 
such as heart attacks. It is used in patients who have had problems due to blood clots in the past 
(such as heart disease or artery disease) or who have type 2 diabetes that has damaged an organ 
(such as the eyes, heart or kidneys). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Tolura used? 
For the treatment of essential hypertension, the recommended dose of Tolura is 40 mg once a day, but 
some patients may benefit from using a 20-mg dose. If the target blood pressure is not reached, the 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose can be increased to 80 mg, or another medicine for hypertension can be added, such as 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
For the prevention of cardiovascular problems, the recommended dose is 80 mg once a day. The 
doctor should monitor the patient’s blood pressure closely when starting Tolura, and may decide to 
adjust the patient’s blood pressure-lowering medication. 
How does Tolura work? 
The active substance in Tolura, telmisartan, is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means 
that it blocks the action of a hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful 
vasoconstrictor (a substance that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which 
angiotensin II normally attaches, telmisartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood 
vessels to widen. This allows the blood pressure to drop, reducing the risks associated with high blood 
pressure, such as having a heart attack. It also allows the heart to pump blood more easily, which can 
help to reduce the risk of future cardiovascular problems. 
How has Tolura been studied? 
Because Tolura is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to determine that it 
is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Micardis. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefit and risk of Tolura? 
Because Tolura is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefit and 
risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Tolura been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Tolura has been shown to have 
comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Micardis. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for 
Micardis, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Tolura be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Tolura: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Tolura to 
Krka, d.d., Novo mesto on 4 June 2010. The marketing authorisation is valid for five years, after which 
it can be renewed. 
The full EPAR for Tolura can be found on the Agency’s website: EMA website/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Tolura, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2011. 
Tolura  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
