EMA/59721/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005961 
Tolvaptan Accord (tolvaptan) 
An overview of Tolvaptan Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Tolvaptan Accord and what is it used for? 
Tolvaptan Accord is a medicine for treating abnormally low levels of sodium in the blood in adults with 
a condition called ‘syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion’ (SIADH).  
In people with SIADH, an excessive amount of the hormone vasopressin makes them produce less 
urine and thereby retain more water in the body, which dilutes the concentration of sodium in the 
blood.  
Tolvaptan Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Tolvaptan Accord contains the same active 
substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU. The 
reference medicine for Tolvaptan Accord is called Samsca. For more information on generic medicines, 
see the question-and-answer document here.  
Tolvaptan Accord contains the active substance tolvaptan. 
How is Tolvaptan Accord used? 
Tolvaptan Accord is given once a day as a tablet. The medicine can only be obtained with a 
prescription. Treatment should be started in hospital so that healthcare professionals can determine 
the most appropriate dose and monitor the patient’s level of blood sodium and blood volume. 
For more information about using Tolvaptan Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Tolvaptan Accord work? 
People with SIADH have an excessive amount of the hormone vasopressin, leading to decreased urine 
production and an increased amount of water in the blood. The active substance in this medicine, 
tolvaptan, is a ‘vasopressin-2 receptor antagonist’. This means that it blocks one type of receptor 
(target) to which the hormone vasopressin normally attaches itself. By blocking this receptor, 
Tolvaptan Accord prevents vasopressin’s effect. This increases urine production and decreases the 
amount of water in the blood, thereby increasing the blood sodium level. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Tolvaptan Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Samsca, and do not need to be repeated for Tolvaptan Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Tolvaptan Accord. The company 
also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Tolvaptan Accord? 
Because Tolvaptan Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Tolvaptan Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Tolvaptan Accord 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Samsca. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Samsca, the benefits of Tolvaptan Accord outweigh the identified risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tolvaptan Accord? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tolvaptan Accord have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Tolvaptan Accord are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Tolvaptan Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to 
protect patients. 
Other information about Tolvaptan Accord 
Tolvaptan Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 24 March 2023. 
Further information on Tolvaptan Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/tolvaptan-accord. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in March 2023. 
Tolvaptan Accord (tolvaptan)  
EMA/59721/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
