EMA/642640/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004182 
EPAR summary for the public 
Tookad 
padeliporfin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Tookad. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Tookad. 
For practical information about using Tookad, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Tookad and what is it used for? 
Tookad is a medicine for treating men with low-risk prostate cancer, where the cancer affects only one 
side of the prostate and patients would normally be expected to survive for at least 10 years. 
Tookad contains the active substance padeliporfin. 
How is Tookad used? 
Tookad is given as an injection into a vein over 10 minutes and subsequently activated in the prostate 
by laser light using a procedure known as vascular-targeted photodynamic (VTP) therapy.  
During VTP therapy, the patient is put under general anaesthesia so that optical fibres can be inserted 
into the prostate using hollow needles. Laser light is then shone along the fibres onto the cancer, 
where it activates the medicine. 
Tookad can only be used in a hospital by healthcare professionals trained to carry out VTP therapy. The 
medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Tookad work? 
Once activated, the active substance in Tookad, padeliporfin, triggers the production of high levels of 
substances known as oxygen radicals, which cause the destruction of the vessels supplying blood to 
the cancer followed by rapid death of the cancer cells. 
What benefits of Tookad have been shown in studies? 
A study of 413 men with low-risk prostate cancer found that Tookad with VTP therapy was effective at 
clearing signs of prostate cancer in many patients. After 24 months, 49% of patients treated with 
Tookad had no definitive signs of cancer in their tissues compared with 14% of patients who received 
no treatment.  
In addition, Tookad helped delay the progression from low-risk prostate cancer to a higher risk cancer. 
On average progression occurred after 28 months in patients treated with Tookad compared with 14 
months in those who did not receive treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Tookad? 
The most common side effects with Tookad, which can affect up to 1 in 4 patients, are problems with 
urinating (pain, inability to pass urine, strong urge to pass urine, frequent urination and incontinence), 
sexual problems (erectile dysfunction and ejaculation failure), blood in urine, urinary tract infection, 
and pain and bleeding around the genital area.  
Other side effects include those related to the general anaesthesia (such as brief memory loss and 
heart rate abnormalities) and mild liver effects (such as raised liver enzymes). For the full list of side 
effects reported with Tookad, see the package leaflet. 
Tookad must not be used in men who have undergone certain procedures on the prostate, men 
diagnosed with cholestasis (a liver problem) or those with exacerbations (flare-ups) of inflammatory 
bowel disease. It must also not be used in men who are not suitable for general anaesthesia or 
invasive procedures, such as VTP therapy. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Tookad approved? 
A study found that around half of patients with low-risk prostate cancer treated with Tookad had no 
definitive signs of the cancer after 2 years. The medicine also doubled the average time it took for a 
low-risk cancer to progress to a higher risk cancer, which may require more extensive treatment. 
The side effects seen with Tookad were mainly caused by the insertion of optical fibres during the VTP 
therapy. Most were mild, resolving within a few days. It is, however, unclear what effect Tookad 
treatment will have on future treatments for prostate cancer and more study is needed to find out if 
such treatments are compromised.  
The European Medicines Agency concluded that the benefits seen with Tookad are greater than its risks 
and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tookad? 
The company that markets Tookad will make educational material available to patients and healthcare 
professionals to raise awareness of the medicine’s risks and provide them with information about VTP 
therapy.  
Tookad  
EMA/642640/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
In addition, the company will complete new studies to assess the long-term benefits and safety of the 
medicine, including any effects of Tookad on future treatments. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tookad have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Tookad 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Tookad on 10 November 2017. 
The full EPAR for Tookad can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Tookad, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2017. 
Tookad  
EMA/642640/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
