SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1 
Introduction 
Kidney cancer represents approximately 2% of all cancers worldwide and is responsible for 2% of all 
cancer-related deaths. Renal cell carcinomas (RCC), which comprise the majority of kidney tumours, 
are epithelial tumours in nature. Approximately 30% of RCC patients have metastases at the time of 
initial diagnosis. For the last 20 years, immunotherapy based on treatment with cytokines has been the 
standard of care for patients with advanced RCC. The two different cytokines used for the treatment of 
advanced RCC are interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) and interleukin-2 (IL-2). 
RCC, which originates in the renal cortex, accounts for up to 85% of malignant kidney tumours. Based 
on histological classification, approximately 75% of RCC are of the clear cell type, 15% are papillary, 
5% are chromophobic and the remaining comprises a variety of tumour types. The poor prognosis of 
clear  cell  RCC  correlates  with  the  appearance  of  higher  nuclear  grade  and  the  presence  of  a 
sarcomatoid (spindle) cell morphology. Papillary and chromophobic RCC are associated with a more 
favourable prognosis than clear cell RCC. 
Treatment and prognosis are dependent on the disease stage at initial diagnosis. In Stage I-III surgical 
procedures are part of standard care. It has been shown that 50% of patients diagnosed with Stage I 
can  be  cured  by  nephrectomy,  whereas  almost  all  of  the  30%  patients  presenting  with  Stage  IV  are 
incurable. Without intervention, patients with advanced RCC have a median overall survival (OS) of 
approximately one year and a 5-year survival rate of ≤ 10%. Surgical resection may be appropriate for 
selected  patients,  including  those  with  isolated  metastases.  However,  the  disease  often  recurs,  even 
when  the  primary  and  metastatic  sites  are  aggressively  resected.  Radiation  therapy  can  provide 
significant palliation to painful metastases. Use of conventional chemotherapy has generally been very 
limited because of low rate of responders to therapy leading to a poor rate of success. 
IFN-alpha  therapy  is  approved  in  several  EU  member  states  on  the  basis  of  data  from  randomised 
trials  showing  a  survival  benefit  in  previously  untreated  RCC  patients.  A  meta-analysis  of  studies 
evaluating IFN-alpha-containing regimens with non-IFN-alpha-containing regimens showed objective 
response  rates  (ORR)  of  14%  with  IFN-alpha  (4-33%)  and  8%  without  IFN-alpha  (3-27%) 
(Hernberg M et al., J. Immunother. 1999,:22:145-154). 
IL-2  is  also  approved  in  several  EU  member  states  as  subcutaneous  injection  and  continuous 
intravenous (IV) infusion. 
Two new medicinal products have been approved for the treatment of advanced RCC in 2006: 
-  Sorafenib (Nexavar) is a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor and targets the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK 
pathway  as  well  as  the  c-KIT,  FLT-3,  PDGFR  (platelet  derived-growth  factor  receptor)  and 
VEGFR  (vascular  epidermal  growth  factor  receptor)  signalling  pathways.  In  randomised 
placebo-controlled  trials,  sorafenib  showed  a  significantly  prolonged  median  progression-free 
survival (PFS) in previously treated patients with at least one systemic treatment when compared 
to placebo. 
-  Sunitinib (Sutent) is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor which targets VEGFR, PDGFR, c-KIT and FLT-3 
signalling  pathways.  In  single-arm  studies,  sunitinib  showed  a  high  ORR  in  patients  previously 
treated with a cytokine therapy and improved PFS as compared to IFN-alpha as a first line therapy 
in previously untreated patients. 
Temsirolimus is a selective inhibitor of mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin), a serine/threonine 
kinase involved in controlling many cellular functions such as cell proliferation, cell survival, protein 
synthesis  and  transcription.  Temsirolimus  binds  to  an  intracellular  protein  (FKBP-12),  and  the 
protein-temsirolimus  complex  inhibits  the  activity  of  mTOR  that  controls  cell  division.  In  treated 
tumour  cells,  inhibition  of  mTOR  activity  results  in  a  G1  growth  arrest  caused  by  the  disruption  of 
©EMEA 2007 
1/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
translation  of  regulatory  cell  cycle  proteins  (D-type  cyclins,  c-myc,  and  ornithine  decarboxylase). 
When mTOR is bound to the temsirolimus-FKBP-12 complex, its ability to phosphorylate and control 
the  activity  of  protein  translation  factors  that  regulate  cell  division  (4E-BP1  and  S6K),  is  blocked. 
These protein translation factors are both downstream of mTOR in the P13 kinase/AKT pathway. 
In addition to regulating cell cycle proteins, mTOR can regulate translation of the hypoxia-inducible 
factors, HIF-1 and HIF-2 alpha. These transcription factors regulate the ability of tumours to adapt to 
hypoxic  microenvironments  and  to  produce  the  angiogenic  factor  VEGF.  The  anti-tumour  effect  of 
temsirolimus, therefore, may also in part stem from its ability to depress levels of HIF and VEGF in 
the tumour or tumour microenvironment, thereby impairing vessel development. 
Wyeth  Europa  Ltd.  has  applied  for  a  marketing  authorisation  through  the  centralised  procedure  for 
TORISEL  25 mg/ml  concentrate  and  diluent  for  an  infusion  solution  in  the  treatment  of  advanced 
RCC. The recommended dose of temsirolimus is 25 mg infused over a 30- to 60-minute period once 
weekly. Patients should receive medication of intravenous diphenhydramine 25 to 50 mg (or similar 
antihistamine) approximately 30 minutes before the start of each dose of temsirolimus infusion. 
2 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
TORISEL  25  mg/ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  contains  a  new  active  substance, 
temsirolimus,  a  42-bis(hydroxymethyl)  propionic  acid  ester  derived  from  rapamycin  (sirolimus). 
Rapamycin, the starting material of temsirolimus, is a macrocyclic lactone produced by fermentation. 
While  rapamycin  is  intended  for  immunosuppression,  temsirolimus  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of 
renal cell carcinoma. 
Rapamycin is already present as the active substance in the authorised product, Rapamune. Rapamune 
1  mg/ml,  2  mg/ml,  5  mg/ml  oral  solution  and  Rapamune  1  mg,  2  mg  and  5  mg  film-coated  tablets 
in  2001,  2002  and  2005 
were  respectively  authorised 
(EMEA/H/C/0273/01-03, 
and 
EMEA/H/C/0273/06/X21). 
through 
EMEA/H/C/0273/04/X01, 
the  Centralised  Procedure 
EMEA/H/C/0273/05/X05 
The finished product, TORISEL, is a two-vial system consisting of a concentrate solution intended for 
infusion  containing  25  mg/ml  temsirolimus  (in  one  vial)  and  a  specifically  formulated  diluent  (in 
another vial). Before use, the temsirolimus concentrate has to be diluted with the diluent, followed by 
a dilution with 0.9% sodium chloride for intravenous injection. 
Temsirolimus 25 mg/ml concentrate is  packaged in type I glass vials containing 1.2 ml concentrate, 
sealed with butyl rubber stoppers. The diluent for temsirolimus concentrate 25 mg/ml is packaged in 
type I glass vials containing 2.2 ml of diluent, sealed with butyl rubber stoppers. A cardboard box is 
used as secondary packaging to protect the product from light. 
This  application  focuses  particularly  on  the  quality  by  design  of  the  active  substance  and  the  drug 
product  as  referred 
topics  were 
oxidative/hydrolysis degradants (including design space), the content of metal and acid in the product 
and issues regarding process development and monitoring using Process Analytical Technology (PAT) 
(including “PAT tools” for stability prediction). 
the  ICH  Note  for  Guidance  Q8/Q9/Q10.  Main 
in 
to 
Active Substance 
The  structure  of  the  active  substance  temsirolimus  (rapamycin,  42-[3-hydroxy-2  (hydroxymethyl)-2-
methylpropanoate, ester of rapamycin] is disclosed hereafter. 
©EMEA 2007 
2/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Temsirolimus  is  a  white  to  off-white  non-hygroscopic  powder,  poorly  soluble  in  water  but  very 
soluble  in  ethanol.  There  are  two  possible  polymorphic  forms:  the  crystalline  form  and  the 
pseudomorph  form  (solvated  form).  In  this  application,  only  the  crystalline  form  is  obtained  via  the 
proposed commercial manufacturing process. 
Regarding  stereochemistry,  three  isomers  A,  B  and  C  can  exist  and  they  interconvert  in  solution. 
Isomer B is the predominant isomer (≥ 97 %) in both solution and solid states, whereas Isomer A is 
only observed in solution state. 
The  structure  of  temsirolimus  has  been  confirmed  by  infrared  (IR),  ultraviolet  (UV),  mass 
spectrometry,  1H nuclear  magnetic  resonance  (NMR)  and  13C NMR  spectrometry  as  well  as  by 
elemental  analysis.  Physicochemical  characterisation  includes  data  on  appearance,  hygroscopicity, 
polymorphism (X-ray diffraction, scanning calorimetry), melting point, solubility in various solvents, 
apparent partition coefficient and stereochemistry. 
•  Manufacture 
The 7 steps synthesis of temsirolimus is adequately described starting from rapamycin and including 
the  purification  to  yield  the  parenteral  grade  temsirolimus.  The  process  and  quality  of  rapamycin 
comply with the requirements from the Ph. Eur. monograph “Products of fermentation”. 
Reaction  conditions  (molar  ratios,  yields,  temperatures)  and  the  necessary  in-process  controls  are 
described in detail. Specifications of starting materials and isolated intermediates including rapamycin 
and pre-parenteral grade temsirolimus are satisfactory. Solvents, reagents and auxiliary materials used 
in  the  synthesis  have  been  sufficiently  analysed.  Analytical  methods  have  been  described  and 
validated. 
Study  of  the  quality  of  drug  product  indicated  that  the  following  3  factors:  oxidative/hydrolysis 
degradant  content  (OD),  metal  content  and  acid  content  in  the  active  substance  were  critical  to  the 
drug’s purity and stability. Therefore the drug product has been developed using principles of Quality 
by Design with the objective to maximise product purity, stability, design and control limits. 
A  Quality  by  Design  approach  was  also  undertaken  for  the  active  substance.  The  purpose  of  the 
Quality by Design work was to identify the attributes of the active substance that were critical to the 
safety, quality and/or performance of the drug product. 
From this knowledge, an analysis of the critical factors leading to high levels of OD, metal, and acid 
content in the active substance was undertaken. Critical process parameters significantly affecting the 
levels of OD, metal, and acid content (whether in active substance, excipients or drug product) were 
identified  through  a  risk  analysis  of  the  manufacturing  process.  This  activity  was  used  to  define  a 
design  space  (for  e.g.  the  active  substance  critical  quality  attributes).  Finally,  critical  in-process 
controls  were  implemented  in  the  active  substance  manufacturing  process  to  ensure  that  the  process 
would be maintained within the desired design space. 
©EMEA 2007 
3/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant constructed a Quality by Design concept to avoid/reduce unfavourable factors as well as 
to  control  them.  In  relation  to  the  active  substance,  two  detailed  reports  pertaining  to  the  quality  by 
design concept (development work) were presented. 
The applicant declared that during routine manufacture, the active substance and drug product will be 
manufactured  within  the  control  space  (see  for  the  above  mentioned  critical  process  parameters  and 
attributes). 
•  Specification 
The  following  tests  were  used  to  measure  adequate  specification:  description,  identification  (IR  and 
high pressure liquid chromatography [HPLC]), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), rapamycin 
content  (HPLC),  water  content  (Karl-Fischer),  heavy  metals,  residue  on  ignition,  residual  solvents 
(GC), optical rotation and microbiological quality. 
Impurity limits were justified by toxicological studies and the level of residual solvents are in line with 
ICH  limits.  Analytical  methods  were  satisfactorily  described  and  validated  in  accordance  with  ICH 
requirements. 
Certificates  of  analysis  were  submitted  for  9  pre-parental  grade  development  batches  and  3  final 
parenteral grade active substance production-scale batches. The results are within the specification and 
this demonstrates the consistency of the process. 
Parenteral  grade  temsirolimus  is  flushed  with  nitrogen  and  kept  in  triple  low-density  polyethylene 
(LDPE)  bags.  Dimensions  and  IR  certificates  confirm  the  identification  of  the  packaging  material. 
Certificates  of  analysis  for  the  packaging  materials  have  been  provided  and  are  in  accordance 
with Ph. Eur. 
•  Stability 
Studies  on  stability  of  the  product  were  carried  out  under  ICH  conditions  on  9  pre-parenteral  grade 
batches  (up  to  18  months  at  5°C  and  25°C/60%RH  and  up  to  6  months  at  40°C/75%RH)  and 
3 parenteral grade batches (up to 12 months at 5°C and 25°C/60%RH and 6 months at 40°C/75%RH), 
including photostability studies conducted in accordance with the Note for Guidance ICH Q1B. The 
parameters  tested  during  the  stability  studies  were:  appearance,  impurities,  assay,  water  content, 
microbial quality and bacterial endotoxins. The analytical methods were the same as the ones used for 
the  control  of  the  active  substance.  Results  showed  that  temsirolimus  remains  stable  at  5°C  and  is 
light-sensitive. Based on the available stability data, a re-test period of 18 months can be granted when 
stored  in  polyethylene  bags  inside  aluminium  can  with  desiccant  under  refrigerated  (2°C  to  8°C) 
conditions. 
Medicinal Product 
The  finished  product  consists  of  2  vials:  one  vial  contains  a  concentrate  of  temsirolimus  25  mg/ml 
solution  for  infusion  (non-aqueous,  ethanolic,  sterile  preparation)  while  the  second  vial  contains  a 
diluent. 
Temsirolimus 25 mg/ml concentrate solution for infusion 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
A concentrate of temsirolimus 25 mg/ml was developed using the principles of “Quality by Design” 
with  the  objective  to  maximise  product  stability  and  purity.  Studies  indicate  that  the  critical  aspects 
required for consistent product manufacture were primarily to control the raw materials, including the 
active substance (which was found to be sensitive against oxidation and hydrolysis), to detect  metal 
and acid contents, and to shield the product from exposure to light. 
Studies were performed to establish sufficient limits (design and control space). 
©EMEA 2007 
4/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  pharmaceutical  development,  including  optimisation  studies,  was  adequately  described.  The 
Concentrate  and  Diluent  were  produced  by  a  simple  aseptic  process  and  sterile  filtration.  Filtration 
was retained and justified as the sterilisation method. 
The proposed composition of the concentrate includes temsirolimus as the active substance, dl-alpha 
tocopherol  (Vitamin  E)  as  an  antioxidant,  dehydrated  alcohol  and  propylene  glycol  as  solvents, 
anhydrous citric acid as a stabiliser, and nitrogen as an inert cover in filled vials. 
The  excipients  used  for  the  finished  product  are  commonly  used  for  parenteral  formulations,  with 
some additional tests were added. The excipients are in compliance with Ph. Eur./USP and the residual 
solvents in excipients were in accordance with ICH Q3C note for guidance. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the excipients used for temsirolimus 25 mg/ml concentrate are derived from either a human or 
an animal source. However, a transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE) statement concerning 
zinc stearate used as a processing aid for the rubber stopper was presented. Additionally, a statement is 
presented  for  rapamycin  (used  as  a  starting  material for  the  active  substance)  since  bacto  soytone  is 
used during the fermentation process. This is acceptable and no TSE risk is anticipated. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacture of temsirolimus 25 mg/ml concentrate solution for infusion can be summarised in the 
following  steps:  1)  preparation  of  the  non-sterile  bulk  formulation,  2)  product  transfer,  3)  aseptic 
filtration  and  4)  filling.  The  manufacture  of  the  concentrate  solution  for  infusion  meets  the  current 
standards of pharmaceutical technology. Facilities, equipment and materials were described in detail. 
The  following  critical  steps  were  identified:  filtration,  filling  and  sealing.  Appropriate  controls  were 
established.  The  manufacturing  process  was  satisfactorily  validated  on  3  consecutive  batches  and 
demonstrated consistency and reproducibility of the process. The aseptic process was also validated. 
•  Product Specification 
The  parameters  used  for  the  product  specification  of  the  concentrated  solution  for  infusion  include: 
appearance,  identification  (HPLC  and  UV),  assay  of  the  active  substance,  degradation  products, 
uniformity  of  dosage  units  (Ph. Eur.),  particulate  matter  (Ph. Eur.),  sterility  (Ph. Eur.)  and  bacterial 
endotoxins (Ph. Eur.). 
Analytical methods were adequately described and validated. 
Batch  data  were  presented  for  16  batches  and  all  the  results  were  in  compliance  with  the  proposed 
specification. 
Temsirolimus  25  mg/ml  concentrate  solution  for  infusion  is  packed  in  type  I  glass  vials,  with  butyl 
rubber  stoppers.  Appropriate  information  has  been  presented  for  the  sterilisation  of  the  packaging 
components (such as vials, stoppers). Certificates of analysis of the vials and the stoppers have been 
provided and are in compliance with Ph. Eur. requirements for packaging materials. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The  stability  of  the  concentrated  temsirolimus  solution  was  demonstrated  in  stability  studies  carried 
out on 3 pilot batches kept in the commercial packaging under ICH conditions (inverted vials, up to 
24 months  at  5°C  and  6  months  at  25°C/60% RH).  Since  out-of  specification  results  were  observed 
under 25° C/60% RH storage conditions, no extrapolation of the shelf-life was allowed. 
In addition, stability results on production scale batches after 6 months were presented. The following 
test  parameters  were  monitored  during  stability:  appearance,  description,  strength,  purity,  water 
content,  particulate  matter,  sterility,  bacterial  endotoxin,  oxygen  in  headspace,  ethanol  content  and 
d-alpha-tocopherol content. The analytical methods used during the stability studies were identical to 
the methods used for the drug product. 
©EMEA 2007 
5/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, studies in accordance ICH Option 2 light stability studies were also conducted. Stability 
studies performed on the reconstituted product (concentrate+diluent) showed that it remains stable for 
up to 24 hours when stored at room temperature. 
Stability  studies  of  the  diluted  temsilorimus  reconstituted  solution  in  0.9%  sodium  chloride  for 
infusion were carried out. The solution for infusion remains stable up to 6 hours at room temperature. 
Based  on  the  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf-life  can  be  granted  when  stored  in  the  commercial 
packaging under the conditions specified in the SPC before and after reconstitution. 
•  Comparability Exercise for Drug Product (to be changed in the EPAR to “Medicinal Product”) 
Studies demonstrating the compatibility of the container with the finished product were satisfactorily 
conducted, including extractable studies, fragmentation and self-sealing of the stopper after puncture. 
These were in line with section 3.2.9 of the Ph. Eur. 
Additionally,  compatibility  studies  with  the  reconstituted  product  before  infusion  were  conducted  in 
several intravenous administration settings. It was shown that polyvinyl chloride PVC should not be 
used  and  the  material  needs  to  be  diethylhexylphthalate  (DEHP)-free.  The  recommended  materials 
include materials composed of glass or polyolefins. 
Diluent for temsirolimus 25 mg/ml concentrate solution for infusion 
The  primary  diluent  for  temsirolimus  25  mg/ml  concentrate  is  a  sterile,  non  aqueous  solution.  The 
resulting solution is further diluted in a 0.9% sodium chloride solution for intravenous injection. 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The pharmaceutical development of the diluent was well described. The objective was to select water-
miscible  co-solvents  that  increase  the  solubility  of  the  concentrated  drug  and, at  the  same  time,  that 
provide adequate chemical stability. 
The  diluent  contains  polysorbate,  polyethylene  glycol,  dehydrated  alcohol  and  nitrogen.  Polysorbate 
was selected as a surfactant because it prevents the precipitation of temsirolimus in aqueous solutions, 
polyethylene  glycol  increases  solubility  and  anhydrous  ethanol  can  act  as  a  diluent  facilitating  the 
filtration and filling of the container. Nitrogen is used as a headspace gas. 
All  the  excipients  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  Ph. Eur.  and  USP/NF  monographs.  A 
certificate of analysis is presented for each excipient. Residual solvent levels are in accordance with 
the requirements of the ICH guideline Q3C. 
The  diluent  for  temsirolimus  25  mg/ml  concentrate  is  packaged  in  a  type  I  glass  vials,  containing  a 
volume of 2.2 ml of diluent, sealed with butyl rubber stoppers. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the excipients used for the diluent is derived from human or animal sources. Nevertheless, as 
for the concentrate, a statement regarding TSE for the manufacture of the stoppers was provided, and 
is satisfactory. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The diluent for temsirolimus 25 mg concentrate is manufactured by aseptic processes. The process can 
be  summarised  by  the  following  3  steps:  1)  preparation  of  the  bulk  diluent,  2)  sterile  filtration  and 
3) aseptic  filling  of  the  container.  The  manufacture  of  the  diluent  meets  the  current  standards  of 
pharmaceutical technology and the equipment used is well described. 
The following critical steps in the manufacturing process were identified: filtration, filling and sealing. 
Appropriate controls were established. Based on the process validation data of 3 consecutive batches, 
©EMEA 2007 
6/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
it can be concluded that the manufacturing process for the diluent produces a product of adequate and 
reproducible quality. The aseptic process was also validated. 
•  Product Specification 
The parameters used for the product specification of the diluent include: appearance and description, 
sterility (Ph. Eur.),  bacterial  endotoxins  (Ph. Eur.),  identity  of  polysorbate  (Ph. Eur.),  particulate 
matter (Ph. Eur.) and extractable volume (Ph. Eur.). Analytical methods were described and validated. 
Batch  data  were  presented  for  pilot  and  production  scale  batches.  All  the  results  are  in  compliance 
with the proposed specification. 
The diluent is packed in a type I glass vials, with butyl rubber stoppers. Appropriate information was 
presented  for  the  sterilisation  of  the  packaging  components  (such  as  vials,  stoppers).  Certificates  of 
analysis  for  the  vials  and  stoppers  have  been  provided  and  are  in  compliance  with  Ph.  Eur. 
requirements. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The stability of the diluent was demonstrated in stability studies carried out on 3 pilot batches kept in 
the  commercial  packaging  under  ICH  conditions  (inverted  vials,  up  to  24  months  at  5°C  and  at 
25°C/60%RH).  ICH  Option  2  light  stability  studies  were  also  conducted.  The  following  test 
parameters  were  monitored:  appearance  and  description,  identity  (polysorbate),  sterility,  bacterial 
endotoxins,  oxygen  in  headspace,  ethanol  content,  particulate  matter,  extractable  volume  and  water 
content. The results showed that the diluent remained stable under all tested conditions and was not 
light sensitive. 
Based  on  the  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf-life  can  be  granted  when  stored  in  the  commercial 
packaging under the conditions defined in the SPC. Since temsirolimus 25 mg/ml concentrate solution 
for infusion requires storage under refrigerated conditions, the refrigerated storage of the diluent will 
accommodate the co-packing of diluent with the temsirolimus concentrate. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  the  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product 
were presented in a satisfactory manner, especially in relation to the Quality by Design concept. 
The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality 
characteristics in a satisfactory manner. Therefore, the product should have a satisfactory and uniform 
performance in the clinic. 
3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Non-clinical studies with temsirolimus were conducted to support multiple indications which included 
oncology.  Specific  to  the  oncology  programme,  nude  mouse  xenografts  using  various  tumour  types 
were  used  as  pharmacologic  animal  models  and  toxicity  studies  have  been  conducted  in  rats  and 
monkeys  using  IV  administration  (once-daily,  cyclic,  or  once-weekly  dosing  regimens)  or  oral 
administration  (cyclic  dosing  regimen)  to  support  the  clinical  development  trials.  In  addition,  the 
effect of tumour growth inhibition by temsirolimus has been studied in combination with a number of 
cytotoxic  agents  including  vincristine,  topotecan,  cisplatin,  melphalan,  carmustine  (BCNU), 
gemcitabine, 5-fluouracil (5-FU), doxorubicine and paclitaxel in vitro and in vivo (data not shown). 
Pharmacology 
•  Mechanism of action 
Temsirolimus is a specific inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a serine/threonine 
kinase  that  regulates  a  signalling  cascade  that  controls  growth  factor  induced  cell  proliferation 
(Figure 1). Temsirolimus exerts its effect on cell proliferation by inhibiting mTOR dependent protein 
©EMEA 2007 
7/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
translation induced by growth factor stimulation of cells. The net effect of this class of compound on 
the  cell  cycle  is  to  block  the  G1→S  phase  transition  by  inhibiting  the  expression  of  Cyclin D1  and 
activation of cyclin dependent kinases (CDKs). 
Temsirolimus  binds  reversibly  to  the  intracellular  cytoplasmic  FK506-binding  protein  (FKBP12). 
Sirolimus,  the  major  metabolite  of  temsirolimus,  also  binds  to  FKBP12.  Both  sirolimus  and 
temsirolimus have been shown to block the activity of mTOR. 
Figure 1. 
Temsirolimus inhibition of tumour cell proliferation and angiogenic pathways 
Growth Factor
PI3K
Akt
PTEN
VHL 
HIF-1,2 alpha 
m-TOR
Temsirolimus 
VEGF 
Cyclin D1
CDKs
Angiogenesis 
G1
S
Cell Division 
CDKIs
P27kip-1, p16, p15
CDK = Cyclin dependent kinase; HIF = Hypoxia inducible transcription factor; mTOR = Mammalian target of rapamycin; 
PI3K = Phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase; PTEN = Phosphatase and tensin homolog tumor suppressor gene; VEGF = Vascular endothelial cell 
growth factor; VHL = Von Hippel Lindau tumor suppressor gene. 
In addition to cell-cycle proteins, the translation of other classes of protein is selectively regulated by 
mTOR.  Thus,  inhibition  of  mTOR  by  temsirolimus  can  impair  tumour  growth  indirectly  through 
inhibition  of  micro-environmental  factors  (e.g.  VEGF)  that  support  tumour  growth.  Approximately 
80% of RCC have lost the von Hippel-Lindau tumour suppressor (VHL) gene, a negative regulator of 
hypoxia  inducible  transcription  factor  (HIF-1,2α),  which  results  in  increased  levels  of  HIF  and 
subsequent  increased  transcription  of  VEGF.  Therefore,  RCC  may  be  particularly  sensitive  to 
treatment with temsirolimus. Other supporting elements, such as the formation of tumour stroma that 
require growth factors, can also be blocked by inhibiting mTOR with temsirolimus. 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics 
The antiproliferative effect of temsirolimus was tested in vitro against number of other human tumour 
lines. However, no in vitro studies on the antiproliferative effects of temsirolimus in renal cancer cells 
were  provided.  The  mean  IC50  for  all  cells  tested  was  1.4  µM.  The  most  sensitive  cell  lines  were 
prostate, breast cancer, CNS and T cell leukaemia lines. 
Temsirolimus has shown activity in vivo in a broad range of human tumour mouse xenograft models 
including  RCC  models.  A498  cells  are  human  RCC  cells  that  lack  the  VHL  gene  and  also  show 
evidence of constitutive Akt activation (a kinase that controls mTOR activation through regulation of 
intermediates  directly  upstream  of  mTOR).  Temsirolimus  administered  to  nude  mice  grafted  with 
A498 cells demonstrated sustained inhibition of the growth of the A498 cells. In addition, combination 
©EMEA 2007 
8/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of  temsirolimus  with  IFN-alpha  administration  in  this  same  model  caused  substantial  tumour 
regression. 
Tumour inhibition by temsirolimus was also shown on xenografts of breast and glioblastoma cancers. 
In  particular,  several  IV  dosing  regimes  were  studied  to  determine  the  in  vivo  responsiveness  of 
tumour  cell  growth  to  temsirolimus  in  nude  mice  human  glioblastoma  U87MG  xenografts.  Each 
dosing regimes (5 days a week, alternate days or weekly) was effective in slowing tumour growth. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  conducted  to  investigate  effects  of  temsirolimus  on 
T lymphocyte  function  by  measuring  the  delayed  type  hypersensitivity  (DTH)  response  in  mice. 
Temsirolimus  induced  marked,  but  transient  immunosuppression  in  mice  by  prolonging  the  time  to 
DTH. 
No secondary pharmacodynamics studies were performed in vitro in order to identify additional target 
receptors for temsirolimus. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  were  conducted  in  rats,  to  investigate  effects  of  temsirolimus  on  the 
central  nervous  system  (CNS),  respiratory  function  and  cardiovascular  function  after  a  single-dose 
IV administration. Cardiovascular function was also investigated using oral administration. Monkeys 
were  used  to  investigate  cardiovascular  function  following  escalation  of  single  IV  doses  of 
temsirolimus. No biologically significant effects on CNS or respiratory function were observed in rats 
administered  temsirolimus  at  dosages  up  to  5  mg/kg.  There  were  no  temsirolimus-related  effects  on 
cardiovascular function in either species at the highest dosages administered. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  effect  on  tumour  growth  inhibition  by  temsirolimus  has  been  studied  in  combination  with  a 
number of cytotoxic agents including vincristine, topotecan, cisplatin, melphalan, carmustine (BCNU), 
gemcitabine, 5-fluouracil (5-FU), doxorubicine and paclitaxel in vitro and in vivo (data not shown). 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  with  temsirolimus  were  conducted  to  support  IV  and  oral  administration. 
Analytical  methods  were  validated  for  the  quantification  of  temsirolimus  in  whole  blood  or  plasma 
from rats and monkeys and for quantification of temsirolimus and sirolimus in whole blood from mice, 
rats, rabbits and monkeys. 
Studies on short-term stability of temsirolimus in whole blood and/or plasma from mice, rats, monkeys 
and  humans  showed  that  temsirolimus  was  unstable  in  the  plasma  of  each  species.  In  whole  blood, 
temsirolimus  was  most  stable  in  humans,  with  decreasing  stability  in  monkeys,  rats  and  mice. 
Therefore,  assessments  of  pharmacokinetics  were  based  on  concentrations  in  whole  blood  and  not 
plasma. Seco-temsirolimus (M4) appeared to be the only temsirolimus degradation product present in 
whole blood and plasma of rat, monkey and human. Seco-temsirolimus (M4) in addition to sirolimus 
and seco-sirolimus were present in mouse whole blood and plasma. 
The  absorption  and  pharmacokinetics  of  temsirolimus  or  [14C]temsirolimus  were  evaluated  in  mice, 
rats and monkeys after single-dose IV and oral administration (only in rats) as part of an IV 4-cycle 
study.  After  IV  administration  of  temsirolimus  to  mice,  rats  or  monkeys,  whole  blood  CLT  values 
increased with increasing dose and were considered to be low to moderate as compared with hepatic 
blood  flow,  in  mice  and  rats  (0.685  to  2.35  l/h/kg  and  0.644  to  1.73  l/h/kg,  respectively)  and 
considered low in monkeys (0.065 l/h/kg). In whole blood, the VdSS values were high (compared with 
total body water) in mice and rats, ranging from 4.06 to 18.7 l/kg and moderate in monkeys, ranging 
from  0.821  and  0.869  l/kg.  After  a  single  oral  dosage  of  [14C]temsirolimus  in  rats  (1.5  mg/kg)  or 
monkeys (7.5 mg/kg), [14C]temsirolimus-derived radioactivity was rapidly absorbed, with tmax values 
in  whole  blood  of  1.5 hours  in  rats  and  between  1  and  2  hours  in  monkeys.  Comparison  of  the 
pharmacokinetics  between  whole  blood  and  plasma  from  rats  and  monkeys  suggested  that  the  AUC 
©EMEA 2007 
9/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and t1/2 were greater in whole blood than in plasma and the CLT was greater in plasma than in whole 
blood. 
The  pharmacokinetics  in  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  was  determined.  Based  on  a  comparison  of  IV 
and  oral  exposure  data  (AUC)  from  4-cycle  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  monkeys,  the  oral 
bioavailability  in  rats  and  monkeys  were  estimated  to  be  approximately  5%  and  22%  in  rats  and 
monkeys, respectively. 
Tissue  distribution  was  evaluated  after  a  single  IV  or  oral  dose  in  male  rats.  Temsirolimus  was 
extensively  distributed  in  tissues.  Concentrations  after  IV  administration  were  higher  in  the  adrenal 
glands, large intestine, liver, pituitary, stomach, thymus and thyroid glands than in other tissues. After 
oral  administration,  the  highest  concentrations  were  observed  mainly  in  the  large  intestine,  liver 
pituitary, small intestine, spleen, stomach, thymus and thyroid. The tissues with the lowest observed 
concentration  were  the  brain,  eye  and  testes  after  either  oral  or  IV  route  of  administration.  The 
clearance of temsirolimus from tissues was slower compared to blood. Some tissues such as the brain, 
eyes, lymph nodes, testes and thymus, while never achieving high concentrations of temsirolimus, had 
persistent  radioactivity.  Temsirolimus  has  low  affinity  to  melanin-containing  tissues.  Temsirolimus 
concentrations were slightly higher in melanin-containing tissues after IV administration compared to 
oral administration.  
[14C]temsirolimus protein binding in vitro in male human plasma was evaluated using an erythrocyte 
partitioning method which provides a more stable matrix for temsirolimus than plasma. Temsirolimus 
at concentrations between 10 and 100 ng/ml was moderately bound (85 and 87%, respectively) to male 
human plasma proteins. 
In  vitro  blood:plasma  distribution  of  [14C]temsirolimus  was  evaluated  in  mouse,  rat,  monkey  and 
human  whole  blood  samples.  The  in  vitro  blood:plasma  partitioning  ratios  were  as  follows:  humans 
(3.4),  monkeys  (3.2),  rats  (0.8)  and  mice  (0.6).  These  species  differences  may  be  due  to  species 
differences  in  the  concentration  of  FKBP12  in  formed  blood  elements.  The  efflux  of  temsirolimus 
from formed blood elements appeared to be low. 
Placental transfer after single oral administration of [14C]temsirolimus was evaluated in gravid rats on 
Gestation  Day  GD  9  and  16.  On  GD  9,  [14C]temsirolimus-derived  radioactivity  was  found  in  the 
embryos and declined slowly with time indicating preferential retention of [14C]temsirolimus and its 
metabolites in the embryos. On GD 16, [14C]temsirolimus-derived radioactivity found in the placenta 
but not in the foetus or amniotic fluid. Radioactivity from the placenta declined slowly. No studies on 
excretion of temsirolimus into milk of lactating animals were performed. Sirolimus, a main metabolite 
of temsirolimus in humans, is excreted in the milk of lactating rats. 
The  ability  of  temsirolimus  to  act  as  a  substrate  or  inhibitor  of  P-gp  was  evaluated  in  vitro  using 
CACO-2 cells. Temsirolimus was the subject of P-gp-mediated efflux and was found to be an inhibitor 
of P-gp having the potential to alter the transport of P-gp substrates. 
The metabolism of temsirolimus or [14C]temsirolimus was evaluated in vivo in rats (including biliary 
excretion), monkeys and humans after single-dose IV and oral administration and in vitro in mouse, 
rat and human liver microsomes. 
In  rats  and  monkeys,  the  primary  metabolites  of  temsirolimus  are  hydroxy-temsirolimus  (M10)  and 
seco-temsirolimus  (M4).  Oral  administration  of  temsirolimus  resulted  in  an  extensive  number  of 
circulating  metabolites.  In  humans,  temsirolimus  is  readily  metabolised  to  sirolimus  and  the  major 
compounds found in human whole blood were temsirolimus, sirolimus and their oxidative metabolites. 
In  all  species  tested,  including  humans,  temsirolimus  was  metabolised  to  sirolimus.  The  level  of 
sirolimus in whole blood (AUC) of rats and monkeys was lower than temsirolimus whereas, in mice 
and humans, the exposure to sirolimus (AUC) was higher than temsirolimus when temsirolimus was 
administered. More extensive metabolism was observed in the faeces of rats compared with blood and 
plasma,  suggesting  further  biotransformation  and/or degradation  during  elimination. β-glucoronidase 
treatment of whole blood, plasma and urine samples from rats or, whole blood and urine samples from 
©EMEA 2007 
10/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
monkeys  did  not  reveal  the  presence  of  hydrolysable  glucuronide  conjugates  of  temsirolimus  or  its 
metabolites. 
In  in  vitro  studies  in  human  liver  microsomes  and  dexamethasone-induced  rat  microsomes  further 
metabolites  appeared, 
isomeric  forms  of 
temsirolimus  and  sirolimus  and  the  seco  (ring  opened)  form  of  both.  In  addition,  reduced 
seco-temsirolimus,  hydroxy  reduced  temsirolimus  and  hydroxy  temsirolimus  were  formed  in  mouse 
liver microsomes. 
including  various  demethylated  and  hydroxylated 
Cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes are present in microsomes derived from human lymphoid cells and 
in human liver microsomes. The major CYP isozyme responsible for the metabolism of temsirolimus 
is CYP3A4 and, to a lesser extent, CYP2E1. Induction of enzyme expression and enzyme inhibition 
studies were performed and included evaluation of hepatic enzyme effects after oral administration in 
rats,  in  vitro  CYP3A4  induction  and  CYP  isozymes  inhibition  in  human  liver  microsomes. 
Temsirolimus did not induce expression of CYP3A4 but metabolism of temsirolimus might be altered 
by inhibitors and inducers of the CYP3A4 enzyme system. Temsirolimus did not inhibit CYP1A2 or 
CYP2C19 activity but inhibited CYP2C, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4/5 activity and may have the potential 
to  inhibit  the  metabolic  clearance  of  drugs  that  are  substrates  for  CYP3A4/5  or  CYP2D6  but  not  of 
CYP2C9 or CYP2C8. 
Excretion  of  temsirolimus  or  [14C]temsirolimus  was  evaluated  in  rats,  monkeys  and  humans  after 
single-dose IV and oral administration. The primary route of excretion in all species was via the faeces 
and urinary excretion accounted for < 5%. Studies using bile duct cannulated rats showed that the bile 
is a major pathway for excretion of absorbed temsirolimus and its metabolites. 
Potential drug-drug interactions were evaluated in vitro in human liver microsomes with temsirolimus 
in  combination  with  other  oncologic  agents  paclitaxel,  doxorubicin  and  letrozole.  Paclitaxel  and 
doxorubicin inhibited the metabolism of temsirolimus. Letrozole, a CYP3A4 substrate, did not inhibit 
the metabolism of temsirolimus. 
Toxicology 
Toxicity studies with temsirolimus were conducted to support IV and oral administration. The toxicity 
of temsirolimus was assessed in different regimens: single-dose IV and oral studies in mice and rats, 
repeat-dose toxicity studies in mice after oral administration (once-daily dosing), repeat-dose toxicity 
studies in rats and monkeys after IV administration (once-daily, cyclic and once-weekly dosing) and 
after oral administration (gavage) (once-daily and cyclic dosing). Additional toxicity evaluations were 
conducted in vitro and in vivo, including genotoxicity assays, a dose-ranging carcinogenicity study in 
neonatal mice, fertility dose-ranging studies in male and female rats and development toxicity dose-
ranging  in  rabbits.  In  vitro  and  in  vivo  impurity  qualification  studies  were  also  performed.  The 
toxicokinetic of temsirolimus was evaluated in whole blood of mice, rats, rabbits and monkeys as part 
of repeat-dose and reproductive toxicity studies. 
•  Single-dose toxicity 
The single-dose toxicity of temsirolimus was assessed in IV and oral studies in mice and rats and also 
after the first dose in repeat-dose toxicity studies in monkeys. Based on the results of 2 IV studies in 
rats,  the  median  lethal  dosage  was  approximately  50  mg/kg.  However,  no  evidence  of  lethality  was 
found  in  mice  after  IV  administration  of  50  mg/kg  of  temsirolimus.  After  oral  administration  of 
100 mg/kg, there was no mortality in either species. After the first dose in repeat-dose toxicity studies 
in monkeys, there was no mortality and temsirolimus was well tolerated at IV dosages up to 2.5 mg/kg 
and oral dosages up to 7.5 mg/kg (the highest dosages administered by each route). 
•  Repeat-dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  was  evaluated  in  mice  following  oral  administration  (once-daily  dosing  up  to 
3 months) and in rats and monkeys after IV administration (once daily for 2 weeks, 4 cycles and once 
weekly for 6 or 9 months, respectively). Repeat-dose toxicity was also evaluated IV studies (doses up 
©EMEA 2007 
11/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  2.5  mg/kg)  and  the  oral  cyclic  studies  (doses  up  to  7.5  mg/kg)  were  conducted  to  support  the 
oncology programme. 
The toxicity profiles were similar following either IV or oral administration. Toxicity related to target 
organs is outlined below. 
Haematology 
The  increase  observed  in  parameters  related  to  erythrocytes  and  the  decrease  in  reticulocytes  was 
suggestive  of  an  increase  in  the  lifespan  of  red  blood  cells.  This  would  be  consistent  with 
immunosuppression.  However,  these  effects  may  also  be  associated  with  haemoconcentration 
secondary to the diabetogenic state of the patient. 
The  observed  decrease  in  platelets  and  WBC  was  primarily  attributed  to  a  decrease  in  lymphocyte 
numbers,  a  direct  consequence  of  the  immunosuppressive  activity  of  temsirolimus.  An  increase  in 
neutrophils  and  fibrinogen  was  indicative  of  inflammation,  an  event  considered  secondary  to 
immunosuppression. 
Lymphoid tissues 
Atrophy of the thymus and of lymphoid tissues was seen in mice, rats and monkeys after temsirolimus 
administration and was associated with a decrease in peripheral blood lymphocytes in some studies. 
Bone  marrow  hypocellularity  was  observed  in  rats.  Reversibility  of  haematologic  parameters  was 
demonstrated during the interval between dosing cycles in the 4-cycle IV studies in rats and monkeys. 
Pancreas, hyperglycaemia and related diseases 
Hyperglycaemia and pancreatic islet cell vacuolation were observed in rats. In addition, studies in rats 
demonstrated  that  other  findings  maybe  associated  with  hyperglycaemia,  such  as  cataracts, 
hepatocellular  vacuolation  and  renal  tubular  vacuolation.  Hyperglycaemia  and  pancreatic  islet  cell 
vacuolation were not observed in monkeys after administration of temsirolimus. 
Testes 
Small  testes,  decreased  testis  weights,  testicular  tubular  degeneration,  testicular  tubular  giant  cells 
and/or hypospermia were observed in mice, rats and monkeys. Also observed in rats was a decrease in 
the  weight  of  prostates,  small  seminal  vesicles,  epididymides  and  the  presence  of  immature 
spermatocytes in the epididymides. 
Testosterone  levels  have  not  been  determined  in  monkey  studies  with  temsirolimus  and  sirolimus. 
However,  decreases  in  testicular  testosterone  levels  were  noted  in  studies  with  sirolimus  in  rats  and 
were  partially  attributed  to  sirolimus-induced  suppression  of  testicular  mitochondrial  steroid 
side-chain cleavage activity. 
Skeletal system 
Lameness,  with  or  without  evidence  of  bone  fracture,  was  observed  in  rats  (primarily  males) 
administered with temsirolimus. Although the specific cause is unknown, sirolimus is known to induce 
lameness  associated  with  osteopenia  and  bone  fracture  in  male  rats  as  a  consequence  to  decrease  in 
testosterone. 
Ovary 
Decreased  ovary  weights  and  microscopic  atrophy  of  the  ovaries,  uterus  and  cervix  and/or  luteal  or 
follicular  cysts  were  observed  in  rats  in  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies.  In  addition,  functional  effects 
(decreased corpora lutea) were observed in a rat female fertility in a dose-ranging study. 
Gastrointestinal tract 
Inflammation of the caecum/colon and faecal alterations (diarrhoea, soft or unformed stools or mucoid 
and/or  liquid  faeces)  were  observed  in  monkeys.  Clinical  and  pathologic  changes  (increased 
fibrinogen and neutrophils) consistent with mild inflammatory changes in the caecum and colon were 
observed in monkeys. In clinical trials, diarrhoea was reported as a temsirolimus-related event. 
©EMEA 2007 
12/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin 
Abrasions, inflammation and/or ulcerations of the skin were observed in rodents and were consistent 
with  the  antiproliferative  effect  of  temsirolimus  on  regenerating  tissue  and  the  immune  system. 
Clinical  and  pathologic  changes  (increased  fibrinogen  and  neutrophils  and  decreased  albumin  and 
increased  globulin)  consistent  with  mild  inflammation  were  observed  in  mice  and  rats.  In  the  IV 
9-month study in monkeys, persistent rashes  were  attributed to a chronic antiproliferative effect and 
were not considered to be a toxic effect of temsirolimus. In clinical trials, rashes have been observed 
in patients administered with temsirolimus. 
Heart 
An  increase  in  the  incidence  and  severity  of  myocardial  degeneration  (sometimes  described  as 
spontaneous rat cardiomyopathy) was observed in rats. Myocardial degeneration occurs spontaneously 
in untreated laboratory rats and progresses in incidence and severity with age, particularly in male rats. 
In rats given temsirolimus, this progression was seen earlier than in age matched controls. Because the 
myocardial  degeneration  observed  in  these  studies  was  an  exacerbation  of  a  naturally  occurring 
condition  in  rats,  and  because  this  lesion  did  not  occur  as  a  temsirolimus-related  effect  in  mice  or 
monkeys,  myocardial  degeneration  was  not  considered  an  adverse  reaction.  In  a  study  investigating 
the  mechanism  of  sirolimus,  myocardial  degeneration  was  attributed  to  the  activation  of  latent 
parvovirus in the hearts of immunosuppressed rats. 
Lung 
Increased  numbers  of  pulmonary  alveolar  macrophages  were  observed  in  rats  without  appreciable 
inflammatory changes and were consistent with phospholipidosis. These changes were not reversible. 
Accumulation of phospholipids in rat pulmonary alveolar macrophages is observed with a variety of 
different  compounds  and  is  generally  not  predictive  of  adverse  findings  in  humans.  Increased 
pulmonary alveolar macrophages with phospholipid accumulation did not occur in mice or monkeys 
given temsirolimus. The appearance and aetiology of the changes in the lung seen in rats are distinct 
from  interstitial  pneumonitis  (observed  in  clinical  studies  with  temsirolimus)  and  a  relationship 
between the two conditions is considered unlikely. 
Cholesterol 
An  increase  in  cholesterol  levels  was  observed  in  mice,  rats,  and  monkeys.  Although  the  increases 
were  generally  of 
low  magnitude,  and  not  considered  adverse,  hypercholesterolemia  and 
hyperlipidaemia have been demonstrated in humans administered with temsirolimus. 
Liver 
Histological changes of the liver, like mononuclear cell inflammation and necrosis, were seen in the 
6-month study in rats (RPT-43567). The low incidence and severity of these changes may be the result 
of a temsirolimus-related decrease in immune function followed by a slight increase in inflammation 
with  associated  hepatocellular  necrosis,  caused  by  an  increase  in  the  numbers  of  bacteria  in  the 
enterohepatic circulation. The relevance of these finding in humans is not known. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Temsirolimus was tested in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxic tests. Neither in vitro 
nor  in  vivo  study  results  provided  evidence  for  a  biologically  relevant  genotoxic  potential  of 
temsirolimus. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity  studies  with  temsirolimus  were  not  conducted.  The  omission  of  carcinogenicity 
studies is accepted due to the short live expectancy of the patient population. 
•  Reproduction toxicity 
The reproductive toxicity of temsirolimus was evaluated in fertility studies in rats and developmental 
toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits.  In  male  rats  treated  with  temsirolimus,  a  decreased  or  absent 
fertility accompanied by testicular tubular degeneration, decreased sperm concentration and motility, 
decreased reproductive organ weights and prostate atrophy was observed. These effects were also seen 
in repeat-dose toxicity studies in mice, rats and monkeys. In developmental toxicity studies in rats and 
©EMEA 2007 
13/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rabbits,  there  was  increased  embryo/foetal  mortality  and  decreased  foetal  growth  (decreased  foetal 
weight and delayed skeletal ossification). In addition, treated rabbits showed an increased incidence of 
intestinal  protusion  through  the  abdomen  (omphalocele).  The  majority  of  the  reproductive  toxicity 
studies were conducted using the oral route of administration. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Comparisons of dosage or exposure to temsirolimus (plus sirolimus) at the no-observed-adverse-effect 
levels (NOAEL) in animals and those at the proposed therapeutic dosage in humans resulted in ratios 
that were generally less than 1. 
•  Local tolerance 
Separate local tolerance studies were not conducted with temsirolimus. Examination of the injection 
site  in  the  repeat-dose  IV  studies  showed  that  temsirolimus  did  not  produce  clinical  or  pathological 
signs of local damage to the vein or the surrounding tissues. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Impurity qualification studies (consisting of an in vivo rat study, bacterial reverse mutation assay and 
chromosome aberration assay) were conducted to qualify the toxicity of higher levels of impurities in 
the  drug  substance  or  drug  products.  Impurities  and  degradation  products  occurring  in  temsirolimus 
preparations  were  qualified  by  testing  the  batches  7636-126  (modified  synthesis),  2001B0205  (heat 
stressed  IV  formulation)  and  L24300-016  (degraded  granulation  formulation)  that  were  specifically 
modified  to  contain  higher  levels  of  impurities/degradants.  The  toxic  effects  observed  in  the 
temsirolimus batches prepared for impurities qualification were consistent with the effects observed in 
the temsirolimus product containing lower concentrations of the impurities, in essence qualifying the 
impurities. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  marketing  authorisation  application  of  the  medicinal  product  temsirolimus  was  started  in 
October 2006 before the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP/SWP/4447/00) come into force. Therefore the environmental risk assessment is 
based on the draft Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human 
Use (CHMP/SWP/4447/00 draft January 2005) stating the Orphan Medicinal Products do not need to 
be accompanied by an environmental risk assessment. Moreover since the medicinal product has been 
designed  as  an  Orphan  Medicinal  Product  with  a  prevalence  of  35  per  100,000  EU  inhabitants,  the 
environmental risk is considered likely to be minimal. 
4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
An  IV  formulation  of  temsirolimus  was  developed  for  the  treatment  of  advanced  RCC.  The  clinical 
development programme for IV temsirolimus includes 21 clinical studies (16 Phase I, 3 Phase II and 
2 Phase  III  studies)  that  were  conducted  in  a  broad  demographic  population  from  23 countries.  Six 
studies (including the 2 Phase III studies) were still ongoing at the time for the data cut-off date for 
this  application  (30  May  2006).  The  pivotal  Phase  III  study  for  temsirolimus  in  advanced  RCC  is 
being conducted worldwide, as well as a Phase III study in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). 
In addition to studies on the IV formulation of temsirolimus, clinical studies for an oral formulation of 
temsirolimus in oncology (breast and prostate), multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis indications 
have  been  conducted.  The  oral  formulation  is  currently  not  being  developed  in  these  indications 
because of insufficient efficacy observed in the trials. 
GCP 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
©EMEA 2007 
14/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A routine GCP inspection of the pivotal study was conducted at the sponsor site in the US and two 
investigational  sites  in  Poland  and  Germany  in  February/March  2007.  FDA  also  performed  a  GCP 
inspection. 
While the overall performance of the sponsor can be considered as GCP compliant, the quality of the 
two  inspected  sites  was  very  different.  The  main  concerns  were  1)  in  one  of  the  two  inspected 
investigational  sites,  the  quality  of  data  documentation  for  the  secondary  endpoints,  e.g.  assessment 
and  documentation  of  progression  for  calculation  of  PFS  was  regarded  as  inadequate,  however,  the 
quality of data documentation for the primary endpoint was adequate and 2) the handling of protocol 
violations  by  the  sponsor  was  considered  inadequate  (“critical”),  although  a  re-analysis  with  more 
stringent rules related to protocol deviations was provided and finally did not show major differences 
with the original analyses. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics (PK) of IV temsirolimus was investigated in 95 healthy subjects from 5 studies 
and 481 cancer patients in 9 studies. In healthy subjects, PK assessments were made following a single 
dose  with  or  without  potentially  interacting  agents.  In  patients,  concentrations  were  measured 
following both single- and multiple-dose treatment in studies that tested temsirolimus both as a single 
agent  and  in  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutic  agents  (Table  1).  The  PK  parameters  of 
its  active  metabolite,  sirolimus,  were  obtained  using  a  combination  of 
temsirolimus  and 
compartmental, non-compartmental analysis or population PK methods. 
©EMEA 2007 
15/47 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. 
Studies in the Clinical Pharmacology Summary 
Study Number 
Study Description 
Number 
Enrolled 
IV Dose 
Range 
12 
25 mg 
Clinical Pharmacology Studies in Healthy Subjects 
3066K1-133-US 
3066K1-145-US 
3066K1-149-US 
3066K1-148-US 
Phase 1, open-label, nonrandomized, parallel-group study to 
evaluate mass balance and metabolic profile of temsirolimus IV and 
PO routes 
Phase 1, open-label study to quantify the temsirolimus 
exposure/response relationship using S6 ribosomal protein in blood 
Phase 1, open-label, nonrandomized, 2-period sequential study to 
evaluate effect of CYP3A4 inhibition on temsirolimus PK 
Phase 1, open-label, nonrandomized, 2-period sequential study to 
evaluate effect of temsirolimus on CYP2D6 metabolism 
Phase 1, open-label, nonrandomized, 2-period sequential study to 
evaluate effect of CYP3A4 induction on temsirolimus PK 
Phase 1, single-blind, randomized, 3-period sequential study to 
evaluate effect of temsirolimus on the QT interval 
Clinical Oncology Studies with a Clinical Pharmacology Component in Patients with Cancer 
3066K1-100-US 
3066K1-155-USa 
3066K1-151-US 
30 
17 
26 
16 
60b 
3066K1-101-EU 
Part 1 and Part 2 
3066K1-103-EU 
3066K1-104-US 
3066K1-124-US 
3066K1-131-JA 
3066K1-152-US 
(NCI study 6813) 
ongoing 
3066K1-200-US 
3066K1-203-EU 
Breast cancer 
Phase 1, open-label, 2-part dose-escalation study to determine MTD 
in patients with advanced solid tumors (daily for 5 days every 
2 weeks) 
Phase 1, open-label 2-part dose-escalation study to determine MTD 
in patients with advanced solid tumors (once weekly regimen) 
Phase 1, open-label, dose-escalation study to determine MTD in 
patients with advanced solid tumors receiving concomitant 5-FU/LV 
Phase 1, open-label, 2-part study to compare bioavailability of IV 
and PO formulations and to determine MTD of PO formulation in 
patients with advanced solid tumors 
Phase 1, open-label, dose-escalation combination study with IFN to 
determine MTD in patients with advanced RCC 
Phase 1, open-label, dose-escalation study to determine MTD in 
Japanese patients with advanced solid tumors 
Phase 1, open-label, nonrandomized, parallel-group study to 
evaluate the PK and PD of temsirolimus in patients with cancer and 
varying degrees of hepatic impairment (Interim) 
Phase 2, randomized, blinded, parallel-group, dose-ranging study for 
efficacy, safety and population PK in patients with advanced RCC 
Phase 2, randomized, open-label, parallel-group, dose-ranging study 
to evaluate efficacy, safety and population PK in women with 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer 
63 (part 1) 
25 (part 2) 
24 (part 1) 
16 (part 2) 
28 
24 
71 
10 
14 to 66 
1 to 25 mg
5 mg 
25 mg 
25 mg 
25 mg 
0.75 to 
37 mg/m2 
7.5 to 
220 mg/m2 
15 to 
75 mg/m2 
5 to 20 mg
5 to 25 mg
15 to 
45 mg/m2 
15 to 
175 mg 
111 
109 
25, 75, 
250 mg 
75, 250 mg
a  Study ongoing, no data were included in the application 
b  number of patients planned, 48 were enrolled at 30 may 2006 cut-off date 
From in vitro studies, it was determined that temsirolimus and sirolimus exhibited comparable degrees 
of biological activity. Temsirolimus and sirolimus share some common characteristics that include low 
oral  bioavailability,  specific 
immunophilin  binding  and  extensive  and  qualitatively  similar 
metabolism. Despite these common biological properties, differences in the profile of activity can be 
obtained  with  differences  in  dose  level  and  dosing  modality.  For  oncology  indications,  higher  dose 
regimens  have  predominated,  supported  by  non-clinical  models  that  have  indicated  several  distinct 
advantages of the IV route compared to that offered by oral administration. IV administration offers 
the  opportunity  to  reach  micro-molar  concentrations  in  blood  and  tissues  of  cancer  patients  that  are 
associated with growth-inhibitory effects. The intention of the intermittent (once weekly) treatment is 
to mitigate the effects of chronic immune-suppression that can occur with daily dosing, as observed 
with (oral) sirolimus. 
For  the  fundamental  PK  descriptions  of  temsirolimus,  whole  blood  was  used  to  perform  the 
experiments.  In  a  pooled  analysis  of  healthy  subjects  and  cancer  patients,  summary  PK  parameters 
were  determined  following  treatment  with  the  25  mg  IV  dose  due  to  the  nonlinear  nature  of 
temsirolimus pharmacokinetics. 
©EMEA 2007 
16/47 
 
 
 
A summary of results from the pooled PK analysis is reported in Table 2. 
Table 2. 
Pooled pharmacokinetics summary - Single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetic 
parameters of healthy subjects and patients following 25 mg IV temsirolimus 
Temsirolimus 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
t1/2 (h) 
AUC (ng·h/ml) 
CL (l/h) 
Vdss 
Sirolimus 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
t1/2 (h) 
AUC (ng·h/ml) 
CL/fm (l/h) 
Composite 
c 
AUCratio
AUCsum (ng·h/ml) 
Healthy Subjects 
Single-dose 
N=51 
Patients 
Single-dose 
N=13a 
Multiple-dose 
N=11b 
592.4 ± 101.9 
17.7 ± 4.5 
2276 ± 340 
11.4 ± 2.4 
189.6 ± 55.2 
57.4 ± 14.3 
73.3 ± 23.2 
5479 ± 1799 
4.9 ± 1.2 
2.44 ± 0.83 
7755 ± 1874 
585.4 ± 83.1 
17.3 ± 5.9 
1627 ± 425 
16.2 ± 3.5 
172.3 ± 39.4 
55.4 ± 31.8 
54.6 ± 1.5 
4151 ± 1600 
6.9 ± 2.6 
2.68 ± 1.22 
5778 ± 1722 
443.0 ± 109.2 
NC 
1349 ± 231.8 
19.0 ± 3.0 
NC 
34.5 ± 19.3 
NC 
3793 ± 1466 
7.4 ± 2.5 
2.98 ± 1.47 
5141 ± 1345 
Abbreviation: NC = Not calculated. No subjects provided data 
a  For Cmax N=5 and for t1/2 and Vdss N=2 
b  For temsirolimus Cmax N=7, sirolimus Cmax N=3 
c  AUC ratio denotes quotient of sirolimus: temsirolimus AUC 
•  Absorption 
Not applicable, temsirolimus is administered intravenously. 
•  Distribution 
Temsirolimus Cmax and AUC in whole blood increased with increasing dose at low doses but reached a 
maximum level plateau at higher doses in a less than proportional manner. This was apparent in the 
various clinical studies that have been performed that contained a PK component. 
Temsirolimus  exhibits  a  polyexponential  decline  in  whole  blood  concentrations  and  distribution  is 
attributable to preferential binding to FK506-binding protein (FKBP12) in blood cells. In whole blood, 
temsirolimus and the major metabolite sirolimus binds to FKBP12. At lower doses, moderate binding 
(approximately 85%) to FKBP12 occurs. At the recommended dose of 25 mg, binding capacity of this 
protein  becomes  saturated.  Due  to  this  specific  binding,  at  low  doses,  the  blood-to-plasma  ratio  is 
high, whereas after saturation of the FKBP12, the blood-to-plasma ratio approaches 1. A mechanistic 
model describing the distribution of temsirolimus indicates that following doses of 1 to 25 mg, mean 
(10th,  90th  percentile)  specific  binding  in  blood  cells  (Bmaxr)  was  1.4  mg  (0.47,  2.5  mg)  and  in 
peripheral tissues (Bmaxt) was 5.0 mg (0.94, 9.9 mg). Collectively, these data indicated that the amount 
of  temsirolimus  required  to  saturate  central  and  peripheral  tissue  sites  was  approximately  6.4  mg 
(1.41,  12.4  mg).  Consequently  doses  or  dose  regimens  less  than  12.4  mg  may  be  associated  with 
peripheral tissue exposures that are subtherapeutic. 
•  Metabolism 
Temsirolimus is rapidly metabolised mainly via de-esterification to obtain sirolimus. In whole blood, 
temsirolimus and sirolimus were the major species with minor contributions of temsirolimus isomer C, 
seco-temsirolimus and hydroxy-temsirolimus. CYP3A4 is the major CYP isoenzyme responsible for 
other routes of metabolism of temsirolimus and sirolimus. 
Following a single 25 mg intravenous dose in patients with cancer, sirolimus AUC was 2.7-fold that of 
temsirolimus AUC, due mainly to the longer half-life of sirolimus. 
•  Elimination 
Across  the  different  studies,  clearance  was  shown  to  be  dose-dependent,  increasing  with  dose, 
presumably due to the saturable distribution of temsirolimus in blood and tissues. 
©EMEA 2007 
17/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  slightly  higher  value  of  half-life  for  healthy  subjects  may  be  explained  by  either  the  more 
extensive  terminal  phase  sampling  schedules  attainable  in  healthy  subjects  as  compared  to  cancer 
patients or the higher haematocrit relative to cancer patients. 
With  multiple  temsirolimus  doses  and  the  once-weekly  schedule,  no  appreciable  degrees  of 
accumulation  of  temsirolimus  or  sirolimus  were  observed  in  the  various  cancer  patient  studies 
conducted. 
•  Excretion 
The  elimination  of  temsirolimus  from  the  body  occurs  principally  through  faeces.  For  the  25  mg 
IV-dose  of  radiolabelled  temsirolimus,  83%  of  drug-derived  radioactivity  was  recoverable  from  the 
body, with 78% recovered from faeces. Mean urinary excretion was low (5%) and likely indicates that 
renal elimination played only a minor role in the clearance of temsirolimus and the major metabolite 
sirolimus. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Over  the  wide  dose  range  investigated,  dose-related  increases  in  exposure,  as  measured  by 
temsirolimus Cmax, AUC and AUCsum in whole blood, increased with dose, but significantly was not 
entirely  proportional  (p < 0.001)  due  to  saturable  binding  of  temsirolimus  to  FKBP12  in  blood  cells 
and peripheral compartments. 
Inter-patient variability at a fixed 25 mg single dose with respect to Cmax and AUC was 14 and 26% for 
temsirolimus and 25 and 36% for sirolimus, respectively. 
•  Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
Mass  balance  data  from  Study  3066K1-133-US  indicated  that  mean  urinary  excretion  following  the 
25 mg IV-dose was low (≈ 5%). Secondary data from the population PK analysis of temsirolimus and 
sirolimus indicated that PK disposition was not affected by differences in creatinine clearance. 
Impaired hepatic function 
A study in patients with hepatic impairment is currently ongoing in co-operation with the US National 
Cancer Institute (Study 3066K1-152-US). The study plans to enrol patients into 5 cohorts according to 
the  degree  of  hepatic  impairment.  Up  to  12  patients  will  be  accrued  in  each  cohort  at  each  of 
5 proposed dose levels (15–175 mg). 
Preliminary  results  of  the  first  14  patients  (15  and  25  mg)  suggest  that  exposure  of  sirolimus  in 
patients  with  hepatic  impairment  receiving  temsirolimus  25 mg  was  disproportionately  higher 
compared to patients receiving temsirolimus 15 mg. Definitive conclusions of an effect in this special 
population cannot be drawn at this time. Thrombocytopenia was a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) for 
the mild dose cohorts leading to de-escalation and multiple dose delays. 
Gender 
No significant effects were observed in the population PK analysis for gender. 
Race 
Exposure  and  PK  parameters  of  temsirolimus  and  sirolimus  were  specifically  assessed  in  Japanese 
patients (Study 3066K1-131-JA). Data were derived from 10 patients with cancer following either 15 
or 45 mg/m2 doses of temsirolimus IV. Correction for individual patient BSA yielded conversions to 
mean flat doses of 24.2 mg (95% CI: 22.5, 26.0) and 75 mg (95% CI: 33.4, 117), respectively. 
No significant effects were observed in the population PK analysis for race. 
Weight 
No significant effects were observed in the population PK analysis for weight. 
©EMEA 2007 
18/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
According  to  the  results  from  population  PK  modelling,  no  major  difference  between  elderly  and 
younger patients was found. 
Children 
A  Phase  I/II  dose-escalation  study  (Study  3066K1-139-US)  to  determine  maximum  tolerated  dose 
(MTD) in a paediatric population is currently ongoing. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro 
Based  on  in  vitro  data,  clinically  relevant  inhibition  of  CYP2D6  and  CYP3A4/5  by  temsirolimus  is 
possible.  However,  the  likelihood  of  relevant  inhibition  of  CYP2C9  and  CYP2C8  by  temsirolimus 
appears remote. Inhibition of CYP2B6 and CYP2E1 was not investigated in vitro. In vitro data do not 
suggest that temsirolimus has enzyme inducing activity. 
In vivo 
Drug  interaction  potential  of  temsirolimus  was  formally  tested  through  specific  studies  in  healthy 
subjects. Factors examined included temsirolimus as an inhibitor of CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 metabolism 
and temsirolimus as a substrate for CYP3A4 metabolism. 
Temsirolimus as substrate 
When  the  potent  CYP3A4  inhibitor  ketoconazole  was  administered  concomitantly  with  5 mg 
temsirolimus  IV,  temsirolimus  Cmax  and  AUC  were  unaffected.  However,  sirolimus  mean  Cmax  and 
AUC  increased  2.2-fold  and  3.1-fold,  respectively.  However,  the  relative  free  temsirolimus  and 
sirolimus  blood  concentration  available  for  metabolism  is  higher  at  a  temsirolimus  dose  of  25  mg. 
Therefore, the impact on the inhibition of CYP3A4 may be more pronounced at this higher dose. 
The  potent  inducer  rifampicin  did  not  influence  temsirolimus  Cmax  or  AUC  but  decreased  sirolimus 
Cmax  to  36%  (90%  CI:  31%  to  41%)  and  decreased  sirolimus  AUC  to  44%  (90%  CI:  39%  to  49%) 
compared to temsirolimus alone. 
Temsirolimus as inhibitor 
The  potential  of  temsirolimus  to  act  as  a  CYP2D6  inhibitor  was  tested  in  healthy  subjects.  Using 
desipramine as a substrate of CYP2D6, results indicated that the 25 mg IV-dose of temsirolimus did 
not have a clinically relevant effect on desipramine or 2-hydroxy-desipramine pharmacokinetics. 
Co-administration of IFN-α does not significantly affect temsirolimus and sirolimus pharmacokinetics. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
In addition to pharmacokinetic studies investigating plasma-protein binding, hepatic metabolism and 
drug  interactions,  two  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  conducted  using  human  biomaterials  to 
study the transport and inhibition of P-gp activity (main results reported in the non-clinical section). 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Primary and secondary pharmacology 
S6RP  is  a  cytosolic  protein  substrate  immediately  distal  to  the  p70S6  kinase  target  of  mTOR 
signalling  in  the  PI3  kinase  pathway.  Inhibition  of  lymphocyte  phosphorylation  of  S6RP  by 
temsirolimus was chosen as a pharmacodynamic marker of mTOR modulation. The analytical method 
to measure phospho-S6RP activity demonstrated adequate performance characteristics during method 
validation. The biochemical target of phospho-S6RP demonstrated robust changes in response to the 
presence of temsirolimus in non-clinical models. An indirect model to measure cellular response was 
used  in  which  the  inhibition  of  response  was  measured  in  both  CD3+  and  CD19+  lymphocytes. 
Following  single  IV  doses  ranging  from  1  to  25  mg,  inhibition  of  signalling  was  measured  in 
lymphocytes of healthy subjects from Study 3066K1-145-US. 
©EMEA 2007 
19/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  Study  3066K1-145-US,  following  the  25  mg  IV  dose  in  healthy  subjects,  the  mean 
(10th, 90th percentile) total capacity for specific binding of temsirolimus to FKBP12 in the body (Bmax) 
was estimated to be 6.4 mg (1.4 to 12.4 mg). This dose range is the minimal amount of drug required 
to  saturate  specific  binding  sites  in  the  blood  and  tissues  (lower  doses  would  exhibit  lower  free 
concentrations in the peripheral tissues than expected from linear extrapolations since specific binding 
is  operative  within  this  range).  Doses  above  12.4 mg  would  exceed  maximum  binding  capacity; 
therefore, 12.4 mg is considered a minimum dose to be administered to optimise tissue penetration and 
to maximise clinical benefit for the majority of patients. 
From Study 3066K1-145-US, the mean dissociation constant of specific binding (Kd) was determined 
to  be  5.1  ng/ml.  A  similar  Kd  value  was  also  identified  in  the  population  PK  analysis  of  158 µg  or 
15.9 ng/ml.  These  values  are  comparable  to  active  concentrations  (< 10  nM  ≈10  ng/ml)  studied  in 
non-clinical models for tumour growth inhibition with temsirolimus. 
Maximal  receptor  occupancy  was  achieved  during  the  infusion  period  and  dropped  off  rapidly 
following cessation of infusion. 
Clinical efficacy 
The list of clinical studies included in the development programme of temsirolimus in RCC is shown 
in Table 3. 
Table 3. 
Development programme – List of clinical studies 
Regimen(s) 
Study population 
Protocol No. 
Study design and key 
objective 
3066K1-100-US 
Completed 
Phase 1, open-label, 2-part 
dose-escalation study to 
determine MTD 
Temsirolimus: once daily for 
5 days every 2 weeks 
Part 1: 0.75 to 24 mg/m2 
Part 2: 15 to 37 mg/m2 
3066K1-101-EU 
Completed 
Phase 1, open-label, 2-part 
dose-escalation study to 
determine MTD 
Temsirolimus: once weekly 
Part 1: 7.5 to 220 mg/m2 
Part 2: 220 mg/m2 
3066K1-124-US 
Completed 
Phase 1, open-label, dose-
escalation study to determine 
MTD 
Temsirolimus 5 to 25 mg once 
weekly plus IFN 3 times 
weekly 
3066K1-200-US 
Completed 
Phase 2, randomised, 
blinded, parallel-group, dose-
ranging study to evaluate 
efficacy and safety 
Temsirolimus 25, 75 or 250 mg 
once weekly 
3066K1-304-WW 
Ongoing 
Phase 3, randomised, open-
label, parallel-group, pivotal 
study to evaluate efficacy and 
safety  
Arm A: IFN 3 times/week 
Arm B: Temsirolimus 25 mg 
once weekly 
Arm C: Temsirolimus 15 mg 
once weekly plus IFN 
3 times/week 
a.  Number of study subjects enrolled as of 30 May 2006 
No. of enrolled 
subjectsa, 
Demography 
Total 88 
Part 1: 63, 39/24
19-79 years 
Part 2 : 25, 17/8 
27-66 years 
Total 40 
Part 1: 24, 14/10
30-63 years 
Part 2: 16, 8/8 
29-70 years 
71, 54/17 
35-80 years 
111, 77/34 
17-81 years 
626, 432/194 
23-86 years 
Part 1: Adults with 
advanced solid tumours and 
not taking anticonvulsants 
Part 2: Adults with recurrent 
gliomas and taking CYP450 
inducers 
Adults with advanced solid 
tumours 
Adults with advanced renal 
cell carcinoma who had 
received 0 to 2 prior 
therapies 
Adults with advanced renal 
cell carcinoma who had 
received prior therapy or 
who had not received prior 
therapy but were not eligible 
for IL-2 
Adults with first-line, 
poor-prognosis advanced 
renal cell carcinoma 
•  Dose response study(ies) 
Study 3066K1-101-EU investigated escalating doses of temsirolimus with a once weekly schedule in 
patients with advanced solid tumours. 
©EMEA 2007 
20/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
The primary objective of Study 3066K1-101-EU Part 1 was to determine the safety, tolerability and 
maximum  tolerated  dose  (MTD)  of  IV  temsirolimus  administered  once  weekly  to  patients  with 
advanced solid tumours who were not taking anticonvulsant therapy. 
In a Part 2 of the study, 16 patients with brain metastases or primary brain tumours were included at 
MTD  to  evaluate  the  safety,  tolerability  and  effect  of  concomitant  enzyme-inducing  anticonvulsant 
agent medication on the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of temsirolimus (results not reported). 
Patients  with  a  histologic  diagnosis  of  advanced  solid  tumours,  who  were  refractory  to  or  were 
inappropriate  candidates  for  standard  therapy,  were  eligible  as  long  as  they  were  not  taking 
cytochrome P450-inducing anticonvulsant medication. 
Dosing steps were not fixed in advance. The selected starting dose was set at 7.5 mg/m2 in a 30 minute 
IV-infusion. A  modified continuous reassessment  method was used to decide on the dose escalation 
scheme  estimating  the  MTD  after  each  patient  completed  the  first  3  infusions.  This  method  was 
chosen  to  minimise  the  number  of  patients  treated  at  inefficacious  low  doses.  The  MTD  was 
predefined  as  the  dose  level  at  which  33%  of  the  patients  would  have  unacceptable  toxicity. 
Unacceptable  toxicity  for  the  purpose  of  determining  MTD  was  defined  as  drug-related  National 
Cancer  Institute  (NCI)  Grade 3  non-haematologic  toxicity  (excluding  alopecia,  untreated  nausea  and 
vomiting,  serum  triglycerides  if  < 16.95 mmol/l  and  with  recovery  within  1 week),  Grade 4 
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia lasting > 5 days, febrile Grade 4 neutropenia requiring hospitalisation 
or treatment delay of > 2 weeks as a result of unresolved toxicity and drug-related death due to toxicity 
that occurred during the first 21 days of treatment. 
Results 
The  MTD  was  determined  to  be  220  mg/m2  (2  out  of  6  patients  (33%)  who  had  drug-related 
unacceptable toxicity during the first 21 days of treatment: Grade 3 stomatitis and asthenia). 
Study  3066K1-124-US  was  a  multicentre,  Phase  I  study  to  study  the  safety,  tolerability  and  anti-
tumour  activity  of  escalating  doses  of  IV  temsirolimus  given  once  weekly  with  increasing  doses  of 
IFN-alpha administered subcutaneously 3 times weekly. 
Methods 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  establish  the  MTD  of  temsirolimus  in  patients  with 
advanced RCC for whom concomitant IFN-alpha therapy was appropriate. 
Temsirolimus (5, 10, 15, 20 or 25 mg) was administered as a 30 minute IV-infusion, on a weekly basis 
beginning  in  Week  2,  on  a  non-IFN-alpha  day.  IFN-alpha  6  MU  was  combined  with  each  of  the 
temsirolimus  doses  with  the  intention  to  reach  the  MTD  of  temsirolimus.  Then  the  dose  level  of 
IFN-alpha was to be escalated to the 9 MU dose level in combination with temsirolimus one dose level 
below  the  MTD.  Premedication  with  IV  diphenhydramine  25  to  50  mg  before  each  temsirolimus 
infusion and acetaminophen (2 tablets or 650 mg) with or without a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
agent (NSAID) prior to IFN-alpha administration was mandatory to minimise for side effects. 
Patients, aged 35 to 80 years, with a histologic diagnosis of advanced (metastatic or locally advanced) 
RCC whose disease was progressing were eligible. Patients may have received a total of 0, 1 or 2 prior 
immunotherapy, chemotherapy or other systemic therapy regimens for their disease. 
Results 
In  total  six  dose  levels  were  tested.  The  dose  combination  of  temsirolimus  15  mg/IFN-alpha  6  MU 
was determined to be the MTD. 
Grade  3  or  4  drug-related  TEAE  were  most  frequently  haematologic  (leucopenia  [32%],  anaemia 
[14%]  and  thrombocytopenia  [7%])  or  metabolic  (hypophosphataemia  [20%],  hyperlipaemia  [14%], 
hyperglycaemia [11%] and hyponatraemia [6%]). 
©EMEA 2007 
21/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 3066K1-200-US is a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, dose-comparing, Phase II study of 
IV temsirolimus administered on a weekly basis to patients with advanced RCC. 
Methods 
Patients with a histological diagnosis of advanced RCC, who had documented disease progression and 
had prior therapy for advanced disease or no prior therapy for advanced disease, and were not eligible 
to  receive  high-dose  IL-2  therapy,  were  included  in  the  study.  Bidimensionally  measurable  target 
tumour lesions were required. Patients should present with an ECOG performance status 0 to 1 and a 
life expectancy of at least 12 weeks. 
Eligible patients were randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive 25, 75 or 250 mg of IV temsirolimus once 
weekly until evidence of disease progression. These doses were based on Phase I monotherapy study 
results where tumour response/stabilisation was observed at 15 and 45 mg/m2/week dose levels. The 
fact that patients in the Phase I trial had received much higher doses (up to 220 mg/m2) provided the 
basis for a higher dose level to be administered. Flat doses were used to simplify dosing. The rationale 
for  the  weekly  dosing  schedule  was  to  minimise  the  immunosuppressive  effects  from  temsirolimus. 
Patients  could  remain  on  study  until  there  was  evidence  of  disease  progression,  and  as  long  as  the 
treatment was well tolerated. 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  3  dose  levels  of 
temsirolimus  when  administered  to  previously  treated  patients  with  advanced  RCC  or  to  previously 
untreated patients who were not appropriate candidates to receive high-dose IL-2 therapy. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was objective response (CR or PR). Tumour measurements were made 
approximately  every  8  weeks  using  radiographic  methods.  For  bidimensionally  measured  tumour 
lesions,  the  longest  diameter  and  its  perpendicular  were  measured.  Objective  tumour  response  was 
determined  by  the  sum  of  the  products  of  all  measurable  lesions  (bone  lesions  were  not  considered 
measurable disease because of the inability to assess the response in this tissue). Evaluation of tumour 
response  was  performed  using  2  different  definitions  of  disease  progression:  the  original  protocol 
definition  (based  on  WHO  criteria)  and  the  sum  change  definition  (modified  WHO  criteria  that  are 
consistent  with  RECIST  guidelines).  Analysis  of  tumour  response  was  performed  according  to  both 
definitions. 
The primary efficacy analyses were based on 2 patient populations, the intent-to-treat (ITT) population 
(all  patients  randomly  assigned)  and  the  evaluable  population  (patients  who  met  eligibility 
requirements  and  completed  8  weekly  doses  without  discontinuing  treatment  because  of  disease 
progression or adverse events). 
Results 
The results for tumour response are presented in Tables 4 and 5. 
Table 4. 
Study 3066K1-200-US - Tumour response rates by protocol definition, ITT 
population 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Minor response 
Stable diseasea
Progressive disease 
Unknown / no data 
a  Duration of SD had to be at least 8 weeks ± 1 week. 
25 mg 
n=36 
0 
2 (5.6) 
5 (13.9) 
13 (36.1) 
13 (36.1) 
3 (8.3) 
75 mg 
n=38 
0 
1 (2.6) 
14 (36.8) 
11 (28.9) 
10 (26.3) 
2 (5.3) 
250 mg 
n=37 
0 
3 (8.1) 
10 (27.0) 
9 (24.3) 
11 (29.7) 
4 (10.8) 
Total 
N=111 
0 
6 (5.4) 
29 (26.1) 
33 (29.7) 
34 (30.6) 
9 (8.1) 
©EMEA 2007 
22/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. 
Study 3066K1-200-US - Tumour response rates by sum change definition, ITT 
population 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Minor response 
Stable diseasea
Progressive disease 
Unknown / no data 
a  Duration of SD had to be at least 8 weeks ± 1 week. 
25 mg 
n=36 
0 
5 (13.9) 
20 (55.6) 
6 (16.7) 
3 (8.3) 
5 (13.9) 
75 mg 
n=38 
0 
13 (34.2) 
11 (28.9) 
9 (23.7) 
2 (5.3) 
13 (34.2) 
250 mg 
n=37 
0 
11 (29.7) 
11 (29.7) 
7 (18.9) 
5 (13.5) 
11 (29.7) 
Total 
N=111 
0 
29 (26.1) 
42 (37.8) 
22 (19.8) 
10 (9.0) 
29 (26.1) 
The differences in tumour response were not statistically significant between the 3 treatment groups. 
ORR, OS and PFS results for the different doses are displayed in Table 6. 
Table 6. 
Study 3066K1-200-US – Overall survival, progression-free survival, objective 
response rates and clinical benefit, ITT population 
Median OS in months (95% CI) 
Median PFS in months (95% CI) 
OOR (sum definition) in % (95% CI) 
Clinical benefit for 24 weeks in % (95% CI)  52.8 (35.5-69.6)  55.3 (38.3-71.4)  43.2 (21.7-60.5)  50.5 (40.8-60.1) 
17.5 (12.0-24.6)  15.0 (10.4-18.3) 
5.2 (3.7-7.4) 
8.1 (1.7-21.9) 
5.8 (3.8-7.2) 
7.2 (3.2-17.7) 
25 mg 
n=36 
13.8 (9.0-18.7) 
6.3 (3.6-7.8) 
5.6 (0.7-18.7) 
75 mg 
n=38 
11.0 (8.6-18.6) 
6.7 (3.5-8.5) 
7.9 (1.7-21.4) 
250 mg 
n=37 
Total 
N=111 
For  the  Phase  III  study,  25  mg  dose  of  temsirolimus  as  single  agent  was  chosen  as  the  lowest  dose 
associated  with  activity,  on  the  basis  that  patients  randomised  to  receive  25,  75  or  250  mg  of 
temsirolimus IV exhibited comparable clinical activity. While the incidence of TEAE, NCI Grades 3 
or 4 TEAE or SAE was not significantly different among the different doses, there was a trend of a 
reduction  in  the  number  of  doses  with  the  increase  in  dose.  Causes  for  delaying  administration  of  a 
dose were typically related to the appearance of thrombocytopenia and mucositis. 
•  Main study(ies) 
Study 3066K1-304-WW was conducted as a pivotal, confirmatory, clinical study in advanced RCC 
with the following title: “A Phase III, three-arm, randomized, open-label study of interferon alfa alone, 
CCI-779  alone  and  the  combination  of  interferon  alfa  and  CCI-779  in  first-line  poor-prognosis 
subjects with advanced renal cell carcinoma”. 
Methods 
Study Participants 
This was a multicentre study conducted at 148 investigational sites in 23 countries. 
Main inclusion criteria were: 
•  histologically or cytologically confirmed Stage IV (AJCC) RCC who have not received prior 
systemic therapy for their disease 
•  presence of at least 3 of the following 6 prognostic factors: 
o  < 1 year from time of initial RCC diagnosis to randomisation 
o  Karnofsky performance status (KPS) of 60 or 70 
o  haemoglobin less than the lower limit of normal (ULN) 
o  hypocalcaemia 
o  LDH > 1.5 times the upper limit of normal 
o  > 1 metastatic site of disease 
•  KPS ≥ 60 
• 
at least 1 measurable lesion that can be accurately measured in at least 1 dimension 
Main exclusion criteria were: 
• 
subjects with central nervous system (CNS) metastases 
©EMEA 2007 
23/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  history of other prior malignancy in past 5 years, other than basal cell carcinoma, squamous 
cell carcinoma of the skin or cervical carcinoma in situ 
•  not  recovered  from  prior  surgery  and/or  surgery  or  radiation  therapy  within  4  weeks  of 
randomisation 
Treatments 
The eligible patients were allocated to one of the three treatment arms: 
• 
• 
• 
IFN-alpha  alone:  IFN-alpha  2a  subcutaneous  (s.c.)  3-times  weekly  starting  with  3  MU  and 
escalating  to  the  highest  tolerable  dose,  maximum  IFN-alpha  dose  of  up  to  18  MU  3 times 
weekly 
temsirolimus alone: temsirolimus once weekly 25 mg in an IV-infusion over 30 to 60 minutes 
combination  of  IFN-alpha  and  temsirolimus:  temsirolimus  15  mg  IV  once  weekly  with 
IFN-alpha  2a  s.c.  3  times  weekly.  Dosing  of  IFN-alpha  started  with  3  MU  3  times  weekly 
without temsirolimus in the first week, however, all subsequent IFN-alpha doses were 6 MU 
3 times  weekly.  It  was  recommended  that  temsirolimus  be  administered  on  non-IFN-alpha 
days. 
Premedication  with  an  antihistamine  (e.g.  25-50  mg  diphenhydramine)  was  mandatory  30  minutes 
prior  to  each  temsirolimus  infusion  and  premedication  with  paracetamol  with  or  without  another 
NSAID was required 1-2 hours prior to IFN-alpha. 
In case of Grade 3 and 4 toxicity, the next treatment should be withheld until recovery (for maximum 
of  3 weeks)  and  dose  reductions  for  all  further  doses  for  temsirolimus  i.e.  20,  15  and  10  mg,  for 
IFN-alpha i.e. 9 MU, 6 MU, 4.5 MU and 3 MU. Recovery for ANC is defined as ≥ 1.0 x 109/l and for 
platelet count ≥ 75 x 109/l. 
Patients  were  allowed  to  continue  treatment  until  disease  progression  or  treatment  withdrawal. 
Reasons for withdrawal included progressive disease as determined by the investigator, adverse event, 
patients request, death and symptomatic deterioration. 
Any  concurrent  treatment  was  to  be  documented.  Prohibited  concurrent  treatment  included 
chemotherapy,  biologic  anticancer  therapy,  radiation  therapy,  resection  of  metastases,  hormonal 
treatment for RCC and thalidomide. 
Objectives 
The  primary  study  objective  was  to  compare  the  OS  in  patients  treated  with  temsirolimus  alone  or 
temsirolimus in combination with IFN-alpha with control patients receiving IFN-alpha alone. 
The secondary study objectives included the comparison of PFS, response rates, clinical benefit rate, 
duration of overall response and time-to-treatment failure. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint was OS as defined as the time between the randomisation date and the time of death. 
Patients were followed by regular clinical visits during the treatment period and by telephone contacts 
every  2  months  during  the  follow-up  period.  At  the  request  of  the  independent  data  monitoring 
committee (IDMC), patients were contacted prior to the interim analyses. The specific date and reason 
of death were documented. 
The secondary endpoints were: 
•  PFS  was  defined  as  the  interval  from  the  date  of  randomisation  until  the  earlier  date  of 
progression or death, censored at the last tumour evaluation date 
•  Response rate (CR and PR) 
•  Clinical benefit rate (CR/PR/SD ≥ 24 weeks) 
•  Duration of overall response 
•  Time-to-treatment failure (TTF) as defined as the interval from the date of randomisation until 
the  earliest  date  of  progression  or  death  (any  cause),  withdrawal  from  treatment  owing  to 
©EMEA 2007 
24/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse event, patient refusal, loss to follow-up (censored at the last contact date) or further 
anti-cancer therapy before documented progression (whichever occurred first) 
•  Safety comparison of temsirolimus and the combination arm with IFN-alpha alone 
•  Responses  across  all  three  treatment  arms  were  evaluated  based  on  screening  of  proteins 
involved  in  the  Akt-mTor  pathway  in  the  tumours  (i.e.  Akt  phosphorylation,  PTEN 
expression) and the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway (HIF1-α and HIF2-α). 
Tumour assessments were to be obtained approximately every 8 weeks. The measurability of a tumour 
was defined by the RECIST criteria and tumour response assessments were done accordingly. CT and 
MRI were the recommended methods for tumour assessment. The same method of assessment and the 
same  technique  should  have  been  used  to  characterise  each  identified  and  reported  tumour  lesion  at 
baseline  and  during  follow-up.  Only  superficial  lesions  were  regarded  as  measurable  by  clinical 
examination (may be supplemented by ultrasound). 
Progression was determined by each investigator and by independent radiology review. 
Sample size 
Two null hypotheses were to be tested: 
•  The  first  null  hypothesis  for  primary  efficacy  comparison  was  that  overall  survival  between 
temsirolimus  monotherapy  and  IFN-alpha  monotherapy  groups  was  the  same.  The  first 
alternative hypothesis was that overall survival is not the same. 
•  The second null hypothesis for primary efficacy comparison was that overall survival between 
temsirolimus/IFN-alpha combination and IFN-alpha  monotherapy groups was  the same. The 
second alternative hypothesis is that overall survival is not the same. 
To  detect  a  hazard  ratio  of  1.40  (assuming  4.9  months  median  survival  for  IFN-alpha  alone  versus 
6.86 months  for  temsirolimus  containing  arms  with  80%  power  using  a  2-sided  log-rank  test  at  the 
2.5% significance level) 504 deaths were required to be observed. With a sample size of 600 patients 
(200 in each group), the accrual time was to be approximately 20 months. 
The  original  protocol  was  designed  with  one  single  interim  analysis  using  the  O’Brien-Fleming 
boundary  for  superior  efficacy  to  guide  the  decision  to  declare  early  success/futility  based  on 
conditional power. A protocol amendment was implemented that added a second interim analysis. 
In order to preserve an overall 5% significance level, the critical p-value needed to be adjusted. If the 
p-value  is  ≤ 0.0211  for  the  primary  analysis,  then  the  null  hypothesis  of  treatment  difference  would 
have to be rejected. 
Randomisation 
Approximately  600  patients  were  planned  for  enrolment  and  randomisation  in  a  1:1:1  ratio.  Patient 
randomisation  was  stratified  by  prior  nephrectomy  status  within  each  of  the  3  geographic  regions, 
resulting in 6 strata. The regions were: Region 1: US; Region 2: Western Europe, Canada, Australia; 
and Region 3 Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa, South America and other countries. 
Blinding (masking) 
The  study  was  not  blinded  for  logistical  reasons  (efficient  masking  with  study  treatments  requiring 
different pre-medication and with very different safety profiles would have been meaningless). 
Statistical methods 
The primary efficacy analysis of all efficacy endpoints was conducted using the ITT population which 
included  all  patients  who  were  randomised  into  the  study.  The  primary  analysis  for  the  primary 
efficacy endpoint was carried out by using a stratified (on prior nephrectomy and geographic region) 
log-rank test at the 2.5% significance level, 2-sided for each primary comparison. Hazard ratio (HR) 
and the corresponding 95% CI between the 2 treatment groups were estimated using the stratified (on 
prior nephrectomy and geographic region) Cox proportional hazard model. 
©EMEA 2007 
25/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
Patient flowchart is displayed in Figure 2 (as of 30 May 2006). 
Figure 2. 
3066K1-304-WW – Study flowchart and patient disposition 
Randomised 
(n=626) 
Assigned to 
temsirolimus arm 
(n=209) 
Assigned to 
IFN arm 
(n=207) 
Assigned to 
temsirolimus/IFN arm 
(n=210) 
Received treatment 
(n=200) 
[7 did not start treatment] 
Received treatment 
(n=208) 
[1 did not start treatment] 
Received treatment 
(n=208) 
[2 did not start treatment] 
Discontinued treatment* 
(n=194) 
[6 remained on treatment] 
Discontinued treatment* 
(n=199) 
[9 remained on treatment] 
Discontinued treatment* 
(n=193) 
[15 remained on treatment] 
Entered long-term follow-up 
(n=182) 
[10 died on treatment; 
1 withdrew consent; 1 lost to F/U] 
Entered long-term follow-up 
 (n=193) 
[8 died on treatment] 
Entered long-term follow-up 
 (n=176) 
[17 died on treatment] 
In long-term follow-up* 
(n=40) 
[30 May 2006 total:152 deaths; 
3 withdrew consent; 6 lost to F/U] 
In long-term follow-up* 
(n=49) 
[30 May 2006 total:147 deaths; 
3 withdrew consent; 1 lost to F/U]
In long-term follow-up* 
(n=36) 
[30 May 2006 total:154 deaths; 
3 withdrew consent; 2 lost to F/U]
*  Status as of 30 May 2006 
Recruitment 
In the accrual period from June 2003 to April 2005, a total of 626 patients were randomly assigned to 
3 treatment arms. Overall, there were 207 patients in the IFN-alpha arm, 209 in the temsirolimus arm 
and  210  in  the  combination  arm.  A  total  of  148  centres  enrolled  patients,  with  the  range  of 
1-26 patients per centre. 
Conduct of the study 
The  study  consists  of  two  phases:  a  treatment  phase  and  a  follow-up  phase.  In  the  treatment  phase, 
patients visited the clinic weekly to receive the treatment and to be monitored for safety on a routine 
basis.  Tumour  assessments  were  scheduled  every  8  weeks.  In  the  follow-up  phase,  patients  were 
followed for survival every 2 months. 
The original study protocol was amended 4 times including changes in the selection criteria, sample 
size, prognostic factors. 
An IDMC reviewed the study conduct and the 2 unmasked interim analyses. The IDMC unmasked and 
reviewed safety data approximately every 6 months. 
In  terms  of  protocol  deviation,  a  total  of  71  patients  (11%)  failed  to  meet  the  study  entry  criteria. 
Reasons for not meeting entry criteria included (patients could be in more than 1 category): 
•  protocol-specified laboratory values not met (26 patients) 
• 
fewer than 3 specified poor prognosis factors at the time of randomisation (23 patients), brain 
metastases with symptoms (6 patients) 
radiation therapy or surgery not within the timeframe set forth in the protocol (4 patients) 
• 
©EMEA 2007 
26/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  prior systemic therapy (4 patients) 
•  KPS criteria not met (3 patients) 
• 
active infection (4 patients) 
•  history of other prior malignancy within the last 5 years (1 patient) 
•  prior investigational therapy/agents with 4 weeks of randomisation (1 patient) 
•  no histological or cytological confirmation of advanced RCC. 
Twenty-six patients (4%) who had progressive disease remained on treatment for at least 30 days after 
disease  progression:  1  patient  in  the  IFN-alpha  arm,  13  patients  in  the  temsirolimus  arm  and 
12 patients in the combination arm. 
Thirty-eight patients (6%) had anticancer therapy (medication, radiation or surgery) other than study 
treatment  prior  to  the  discontinuation  of  study  treatment.  Medications  were  either  megestrol  acetate 
(16  patients)  or  corticosteroids  (17  patients).  In  addition,  5  patients  received  palliative  radiation 
therapy concomitant with study treatment. 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic and disease characteristics are displayed in Tables 7 and 8, respectively. 
Table 7. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Baseline demographic characteristics, ITT population 
Age, years 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min, Max 
≥ 65 years 
Sex (n, %) 
Female 
Male 
Geographic distribution 
Region 1 
Region 2 
Region 3a 
Race (n, %) 
White 
Asian 
Black 
Other 
Karnofsky score (n, %) 
< 60 
60-70 
> 70 
Unknown 
IFN 
n=207 
59.2 
10.4 
60.0 
23.0, 86.0 
65 (31.4) 
59 (28.5) 
148 (71.5) 
61 (29.5) 
43 (20.8) 
103 (49.8) 
191 (92.3) 
4 (1.9) 
8 (3.9) 
4 (1.9) 
1 (0.5) 
171 (83.0) 
34 (16.5) 
1 
Temsirolimus 
25 mg 
n=209 
Temsirolimus 
15 mg/IFN 
n=210 
58.7 
10.0 
58.0 
32.0, 81.0 
64 (30.6) 
70 (33.5) 
139 (66.5) 
61 (29.2) 
44 (21.1) 
104 (49.8) 
186 (89.0) 
6 (2.9) 
9 (4.3) 
8 (3.8) 
0 (0.0) 
168 (80.4) 
41 (19.6) 
0 
59.3 
9.8 
59.0 
32.0, 82.0 
57 (27.1) 
65 (31.0) 
145 (69.0) 
62 (29.5) 
42 (20.0) 
106 (50.5) 
193 (91.9) 
3 (1.4) 
8 (3.8) 
6 (2.9) 
0 (0.0) 
177 (84.3) 
33 (15.7) 
0 
Total 
n=626 
59.1 
10.1 
59.0 
23.0, 86.0 
186 (29.7) 
194 (31.0) 
432 (69.0) 
184 (29.4) 
129 (20.6) 
313 (50.0) 
570 (91.1) 
13 (2.1) 
25 (4.0) 
18 (2.9) 
1 (0.2) 
516 (82.6) 
108 (17.3) 
1 
a  Eastern Europe in Poland (n = 101), Russia (n = 63) and the Ukraine (n = 43) 
©EMEA 2007 
27/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Baseline disease characteristics, ITT population 
Stage of disease at baseline 
Stage IV 
Recurrent Stage II 
Recurrent Stage III 
Primary cell typea 
Clear 
Indeterminate 
Non clear 
Unknowna 
No. of metastatic organ sitesb 
0 
1 
≥ 2 
Baseline tumour burden, mm 
< 100 mm 
≥ 100 mm 
Metastasis in liver 
Yes 
Metastasis in lung 
Yes 
Metastasis in lymph nodes 
Yes 
Metastasis in bonea 
Yes 
Unknowna
Metastasis in braina 
Yes 
Unknowna
Dominant site of diseasea, c 
Bone 
Soft tissue 
Visceral 
Unknowna
IFN 
n=207 
201 (97.1) 
1 (0.5) 
5 (2.4) 
170 (82.5) 
23 (11.2) 
13 (6.3) 
1 
1 (0.5) 
41 (19.8) 
165 (79.7) 
64 (30.9) 
143 (69.1) 
Temsirolimus 
25 mg 
n=209 
Temsirolimus 
15 mg/IFN 
n=210 
200 (95.7) 
1 (0.5) 
8 (3.8) 
169 (82.0) 
24 (11.7) 
13 (6.3) 
3 
4 (1.9) 
39 (18.7) 
166 (79.4) 
67 (32.1) 
142 (67.9) 
205 (97.6) 
2 (1.0) 
3 (1.4) 
163 (79.1) 
35 (17.0) 
8 (3.9) 
4 
1 (0.5) 
41 (19.5) 
168 (80.0) 
70 (33.3) 
140 (66.7) 
Total 
n=626 
606 (96.8) 
4 (0.6) 
16 (2.6) 
502 (81.2) 
82 (13.3) 
34 (5.5) 
8 
6 (1.0) 
121 (19.3) 
499 (79.7) 
201 (32.1) 
425 (67.9) 
54 (26.1) 
60 (28.7) 
61 (29.0) 
175 (28.0) 
155 (74.9) 
159 (76.1) 
155 (73.8) 
469 (74.9) 
100 (48.3) 
106 (50.7) 
100 (47.6) 
306 (48.9) 
87 (42.9) 
4 
7 (3.4) 
4 
14 (7.0) 
6 (3.0) 
180 (90.0) 
7 
80 (40.0) 
9 
11 (5.3) 
2 
15 (7.4) 
15 (7.4) 
174 (85.3) 
5 
182 (89.2) 
5 
91 (44.6) 
6 
10 (4.8) 
3 
13 (6.3) 
8 (3.9) 
184 (89.8) 
5 
185 (89.4) 
3 
174 (83.3) 
179 (85.2) 
258 (42.5) 
19 
28 (4.5) 
9 
42 (6.9) 
29 (4.8) 
538 (88.3) 
17 
539 (87.4) 
9 
517 (82.6) 
Time from initial diagnosis to first metastasisa 
< 1 year 
Unknowna
172 (83.5) 
1 
Time from initial diagnosis to randomisation 
164 (79.2) 
< 1 year 
Nephrectomy 
Yes 
139 (67.1 
139 (66.5) 
141 (67.1) 
419 (66.9) 
a  For characteristics that were “unknown” for some patients, percentages are based on the number of patients with known characteristics 
b  Patients are classified according to the investigator-determined assessment of tumour sites 
c  Patients are classified according to the independent radiologist-determined assessment of dominant site of disease 
Numbers analysed 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  of  all  efficacy  endpoints  was  conducted  using  the  ITT  population 
defined as all patients randomised. Secondary analyses of all efficacy endpoints were conducted using 
the ‘Evaluable for Efficacy’ population, as defined by the number of patients that remained at least 8 
weeks on treatment, unless progression or death occurred, and who had no major protocol deviations 
(Table 9). 
©EMEA 2007 
28/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Study patient populations 
ITT 
Evaluable for efficacy 
Evaluable for safety 
IFN 
n=207 
207 
185 
200 
Temsirolimus 
25 mg 
n=209 
209 
196 
208 
Temsirolimus 
15 mg/IFN 
n=210 
210 
188 
208 
Total 
n=626 
626 
569 
616 
Outcomes and estimation 
Overall Survival 
The  first  interim  analysis  was  conducted  on  30 March 2005  after  239  deaths  had  been  observed. 
Results for OS presented in Table 10. 
Table 10. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Overall survival, ITT population (first interim analysis) 
Median OS (months) 
95% CI (months) 
p-value 
IFN 
n=207 
7.3 
5.7 - 9.6 
Temsirolimus 
25 mg 
n=209 
11.3 
8.5 – 12.7 
0.0007 
Temsirolimus 
15 mg/IFN 
n=210 
8.4 
6.7 - 11.8 
0.2923 
The IDMC recommended that the study continue as planned. 
The second interim analysis, which is the basis for the application, was conducted after 442 deaths had 
been observed. The IDMC advised that the protocol-specified analysis of the primary endpoint (OS) 
had  crossed  the  O’Brien-Fleming  boundary  for  the  comparison  of  temsirolimus  alone  versus 
IFN-alpha and recommended the release of the current study data to the Applicant. 
The cut-off date for the OS was 15 March 2006 and any alive patients beyond this date were censored 
on 15 March 2006. 
As of 15 March 2006, 446 (71%) of the 626 patients in the ITT population had died, 37 patients (6%) 
were on treatment, 125 patients (20%) were in follow-up and 18 patients (3%) were lost to follow-up. 
The results of survival analysis for the ITT population are summarised in Table 11a and Figure 3a. 
Table 11. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Overall survival, ITT population 
IFN 
Temsirolimus 
15 mg/IFN 
n=210 
154 (73.3) 
Number of deaths (n, %) 
8.4 (6.6, 10.3) 
Median OS in months (95% CI) 
15% 
% Change in median OS from IFN 
Hazard ratioa
0.96 (0.76, 1.20) 
 (95% CI) 
p-valueb 
0.6965 
a  Compared with IFN alone based on Cox proportional hazard model stratified by prior nephrectomy and region. 
b  Compared with IFN alone based on log-rank test stratified by prior nephrectomy and region. 
Temsirolimus 
25 mg 
n=209 
143 (68.4) 
10.9 (8.6, 12.7) 
49% 
0.73 (0.58, 0.92) 
0.0078 
n=207 
149 (72.0) 
7.3 (6.1, 8.8) 
©EMEA 2007 
29/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Overall survival, ITT population 
The final study report was provided which confirmed the results of the interim report. 
As  of  07 March 2007  (the  database  cut-off  date  for  this  report),  13  patients  (2.1%)  remained  on 
treatment  (2  [1.0%]  in  the  IFN-alpha  arm,  5  [2.4%]  in  the  temsirolimus  arm  and  6  [2.9%]  in  the 
combination arm) and 25 were in the follow-up period. Most of the remaining patients had died: there 
were 514 documented deaths (82.1% of patients) and 74 patients (11.8%) were lost to follow-up. The 
results of survival analysis for the ITT population are summarised in Table 12 and Figure 4. 
Table 12. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Overall survival, ITT population 
IFN 
Temsirolimus 
15 mg/IFN 
n=210 
171 (81.4) 
Number of deaths (n, %) 
8.4 (6.6, 10.3) 
Median OS in months (95% CI) 
15% 
% Change in median OS from IFN 
Hazard ratioa
0.93 (0.756, 1.15) 
 (95% CI) 
p-valueb 
0.4902 
a  Compared with IFN alone based on Cox proportional hazard model stratified by prior nephrectomy and region. 
b  Compared with IFN alone based on log-rank test stratified by prior nephrectomy and region. 
Temsirolimus 
25 mg 
n=209 
171 (81.4) 
10.9 (8.6, 12.7) 
49% 
0.78 (0.63, 0.97) 
0.0252 
n=207 
172 (83.1) 
7.3 (6.1, 8.8) 
©EMEA 2007 
30/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Overall survival, ITT population 
Progression-free survival 
Progression was determined by each investigator and by an independent radiology review. There was 
an imbalance in the number of patients without post-baseline tumour assessments. For the investigator 
assessments, post-baseline tumour assessments were absent for 21.7% of the IFN-alpha arm, 5.7% in 
the  temsirolimus  arm  and  17.6%  in  the  combination  arm.  The  numbers  were  even  higher  for 
independent assessment. Several factors may have contributed to the difference in tumour assessment 
between  the  treatment  arms:  the  greater  number  of  early  treatment  discontinuations  due  to 
symptomatic deterioration, disease progression, AE or deaths in the IFN-alpha and combination arms 
and the greater number of patients in the IFN-alpha arm who were never treated or who discontinued 
early due to patient request. 
Factors contributing to the difference between the investigator and independent assessment could be 
that  investigators  based  their  assessments  on  symptomatic  deterioration  and/or  radiographic  data, 
whereas the independent radiologists’ assessments were based on radiographic data only. In addition, 
the  investigator  could  have  obtained  unscheduled  scans  to  confirm  suspected  PD,  which  were 
sometimes not part of the independent radiologist documentation. 
Table 13, Figures 5 and 6 summarise these PFS results. 
©EMEA 2007 
31/47 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Progression-free survival, ITT population 
IFN 
n=207 
Temsirolimus 
25 mg 
n=209 
Temsirolimus 
15 mg/IFN 
n=210 
154 (74.4) 
3.2 (2.2, 4.0) 
Independent assessment 
No of patients with post-bas. tumour assessment (n, %)
Median PFS in months (95% CI) 
% Change in median PFS from IFN 
Hazard ratioa
 (95% CI) 
p-valueb 
No. patients with PD or who died (n, %) 
No. censored patients (n, %) 
Investigator’s assessment 
No of patients with post-bas. tumour assessment (n, %)
Median PFS in months (95% CI) 
% Change in median PFS from IFN 
Hazard ratioa
 (95% CI) 
p-valueb 
No. patients with PD or who died (n, %) 
No. censored patients (n, %) 
a  Compared with IFN alone based on Cox proportional hazard model stratified by prior nephrectomy and region. 
b  Compared with IFN alone based on log-rank test stratified by prior nephrectomy and region. 
195 (93.3) 
5.6 (3.9, 7.2) 
75% 
0.74 (0.60, 0.91) 
0.0042 
191 (91.4) 
18 (8.6) 
197 (94.3) 
3.8 (3.6, 5.2) 
100% 
0.749 (0.60, 0.90) 
0.0028 
200 (95.7) 
9 (4.3) 
162 (78.3) 
1.9 (1.9, 2.2) 
196 (90.3) 
11 (5.3) 
186 (89.9) 
21 (10.1) 
171 (81.4) 
4.9 (3.9, 6.0) 
53% 
0.76 (0.62, 0.94) 
0.0107 
186 (88.6) 
245 (11.4) 
173 (82.4) 
3.7 (3.1, 5.2) 
95% 
0.78 (0.63, 0.95) 
0.0129 
201 (95.7) 
9 (4.3) 
Figure 5. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Progression-free survival, ITT population 
(independent assessment) 
©EMEA 2007 
32/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Progression-free survival, ITT population (investigator 
assessment) 
Response rate 
The  objective  response  rate  (ORR)  was  defined  as  the  percentage  of  patients  who  had  a  confirmed 
complete or partial response (CR or PR) as their best response to treatment. Response was confirmed 
by  a  second  assessment  at  least  4  weeks  thereafter.  ORR  was  assessed  by  each  investigator  and  by 
independent radiology review. These results are displayed in Table 14. 
Table 14. 
Study 3066K1-304-WW – Progression-free survival, ITT population 
Independent assessment 
Complete response (n, %) 
Partial response (n, %) 
Stable disease (n, %) 
Progressive disease (n, %) 
Indeterminatea (n, %) 
No post-baseline tumour assessment (n, %) 
No of patients with CR or PR (n, %) 
95% CI 
p-valueb 
Investigator’s assessment 
Complete response (n, %) 
Partial response (n, %) 
Stable disease (n, %) 
Progressive disease (n, %) 
Indeterminatea (n, %) 
No post-baseline tumour assessment (n, %) 
No of patients with CR or PR (n, %) 
95% CI 
p-valueb 
IFN 
n=207 
- 
11 (5.3) 
80 (38.6) 
60 (29.0) 
3 (1.4) 
53 (25.6) 
11 (5.3) 
(2.3, 8.4) 
3 (1.4) 
14 (6.8) 
64 (30.9) 
78 (37.7) 
3 (1.4) 
45 (21.7) 
17 (8.2) 
(4.5, 12.0) 
Temsirolimus 
25 mg 
n=209 
Temsirolimus 
15 mg/IFN 
n=210 
- 
19 (9.1) 
133 (63.6) 
41 (19.6) 
2 (1.0) 
14 (6.7) 
19 (9.1) 
(5.2, 13.0) 
0.1361 
0 (0) 
18 (8.6) 
121 (57.9) 
57 (27.3) 
1 (0.5) 
12 (5.7) 
18 (8.6) 
(4.8, 12.4) 
0.8881 
- 
20 (9.5) 
109 (51.9) 
38 (18.1) 
4 (1.9) 
39 (18.6) 
20 (9.5) 
(5.6, 13.5) 
0.1062 
0 (0) 
25 (11.9) 
94 (44.8) 
52 (24.8) 
2 (1.0) 
37 (17.6) 
25 (11.9) 
(7.5,16.3) 
0.2273 
a  Had assessment of stable disease or unconfirmed response prior to 8 weeks after randomisation. 
b  Compared with IFN alone based on Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by prior nephrectomy and region. 
©EMEA 2007 
33/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no statistically significant difference between the temsirolimus or combination arm and the 
IFN  arm  in  terms  of  ORR,  using  either  investigator  or  independent  assessment.  There  was  no 
statistically  significant  difference  in  duration  of  response  between  temsirolimus-containing  arm  and 
the IFN-alpha arm using either investigator or independent assessment. 
Ancillary analyses 
More patients in the temsirolimus arm received anti-cancer therapies during long-term follow-up. This 
was mainly due to the use of IFN at the end of the study medication in 15 patients in the IFN-alpha 
arm and 48 patients in the temsirolimus arm. The use of other anticancer therapies during follow-up 
was relatively similar across the treatment arms. 
Treatment  interaction  test  for  nephrectomy  status  or  geographical  region  showed  no  difference 
between the relative efficacies of temsirolimus, IFN-alpha or the combination with respect to OS. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No analysis on pooled data from different studies or meta-analysis has been performed. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
The  effect  of  hepatic  impairment  on  PK  and  safety  parameters  for  temsirolimus  is  currently  being 
evaluated in cancer patients with mild, moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Study 3066K1-152-
US).  Initial  safety  and  PK  data  available  for  14  patients  showed  that  thrombocytopenia  was  a 
dose-limiting factor for patients with mild hepatic impairment, leading to de-escalation and multiple 
dose delays. Therefore, caution should be exercised when administering temsirolimus to patients with 
hepatic  impairment.  Use  of  temsirolimus  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  is  not 
recommended. 
Data  from  the  integrated  population  PK  analysis  of  temsirolimus  and  sirolimus  indicated  that  PK 
disposition  was  not  affected  by  differences  in  creatinine  clearance.  It  is  therefore  likely  that  renal 
elimination  plays  only  a  minor  role  in  the  clearance  of  temsirolimus  and  sirolimus.  Until  definitive 
data are available, temsirolimus should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment. 
The exposure and PK parameters of temsirolimus and sirolimus were specifically assessed in a study 
of  Japanese  patients  (Study  3066K1-131-JA).  This  study  suggested  that  following  the  15  and 
45 mg/m2  doses  of  temsirolimus  IV,  exposures  between  Japanese  and  non-Japanese  patients  were 
similar and do not justify an alteration of dose or regimen for this patient population. 
A  Phase  I/II  study  in  paediatric  patients  with  cancer  (Study  3066K1-139-US)  is  currently  being 
conducted and includes a PK assessment. 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Table 15 provides an overview of efficacy results (OS, PFS, ORR and clinical benefit) obtained from 
the 3 studies conducted in patients with RCC. 
Table 15. 
Studies 3066K1-304-WW, 3066K1-200-US and 3066K1-124-US – Efficacy results, 
ITT population 
Protocol number  Treatment group 
3066K1-304-WW  Temsirolimus 25 mg 
Temsirolimus 15 mg/IFN 
IFN 
3066K1-200-US  Temsirolimus 25 mg 
Temsirolimus 75 mg 
Temsirolimus 250 mg 
All patients 
3066K1-124-US  Temsirolimus 15 mg/IFN 
All patients 
Number 
of 
patients 
209 
210 
207 
36 
38 
37 
111 
39 
71 
Median OS 
months 
(95% CI) 
10.9 (8.6-12.7)
8.4 (6.6-10.3) 
7.3 (6.1-8.8) 
13.8 (9.0-18.7)
11.0 (8.6-18.6)
17.5 (12.0-24.6)
15.0 (10.4-18.3)
22.1 (11.0-26.0)
18.8 (15.0-25.0)
Median PFS 
months 
(95% CI) 
5.5 (3.9-7.0) 
4.9 (3.9-5.9) 
3.1 (2.2-3.8) 
6.3 (3.6-7.8) 
6.7 (3.5-8.5) 
5.2 (3.7-7.4) 
5.8 (3.8-7.2) 
7.6 (5.5-11.0) 
9.1 (6.2-13.0) 
Clinical benefit 
ORR 
rate 
(sum definition) 
% (95% CI) 
% (95% CI) 
8.6 (4.8-12.4)  32.1 (25.7-38.4)
8.1 (4.4-11.8)  28.1 (22.0-34.2)
4.8 (1.9-7.8) 
15.5 (10.5-20.4)
5.6 (0.7-18.7)  52.8 (35.5-69.6)
7.9 (1.7-21.4)  55.3 (38.3-71.4)
8.1 (1.7-21.9)  43.2 (21.7-60.5)
7.2 (3.2-17.7)  50.5 (40.8-60.1)
7.7 (1.6-20.9)  43.6 (27.8-60.4)
11.3 (5.0-21.0)  46.5 (34.6-58.7)
©EMEA 2007 
34/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
The dataset supporting the safety evaluation of temsirolimus is based on 12 clinical studies (Table 15). 
This  represents  the  majority  of  the  1072 temsirolimus-treated  patients  and  healthy  subjects  who 
received IV temsirolimus who were enrolled in 18 clinical studies (408 temsirolimus-treated patients 
in  the  Phase  III  advanced  RCC  study,  179 temsirolimus-treated  patients  in  2  other  advanced  RCC 
studies, 178 temsirolimus-treated patients in three studies of other cancers [breast, prostate and MCL], 
215 temsirolimus-treated patients with advanced solid tumours in seven Phase I studies and 92 healthy 
subjects in five Phase I studies). 
Safety results from ongoing studies which were initiated shortly before 30 May 2006 (cut-off date for 
this application), including the Phase I study in healthy subjects assessing the effect of temsirolimus 
on the QT/QTc interval, is not described in this application. 
•  Patient exposure 
Safety evaluation is based on a total of 823 cancer patients and 92 healthy volunteers who received IV 
temsirolimus, and 200 patients who received IFN-alpha alone (Table 16). However the temsirolimus 
safety  description  results  relate  mainly  to  Study  3066K1-304-WW,  since  this  study  is  based  on 
controlled data. 
Table 16. 
Safety population – List of studies 
Population 
Studies 
Temsirolimus dose(s) 
and regimen 
25 mg once weekly 
No. treated 
subjects 
244 
Advanced RCC patients treated 
with single-agent temsirolimus 
Advanced RCC patients treated 
with temsirolimus in combination 
with IFN 
Advanced RCC patients treated 
with single-agent IFN 
Advanced RCC, prostate cancer 
and breast cancer patients treated 
with higher temsirolimus doses 
Patients with advanced solid 
tumours treated with temsirolimus 
on alternate dosing schedules 
Healthy subjects who received 
single temsirolimus doses 
3066K1-304-WW 
3066K1-200-US 
3066K1-304-WW 
3066K1-124-US 
15 mg once weekly with IFN 
6 MU or 9 MU 3 times weekly 
3066K1-304-WW 
18 MU 3 times weekly 
75 mg or 250 mg once weekly 
< 15 mg/m2, 15 mg/m2 or 
> 15 mg/m2 once weekly or once 
daily for 5 days every 2 weeksa 
< 25 mg or 25 mg 
3066K1-200-US 
3066K1-201-US 
3066K1-203-EU 
3066K1-100-US 
3066K1-101-EU 
3066K1-133-US 
3066K1-145-US 
3066K1-148-US 
3066K1-149-US 
3066K1-151-US 
253 
200 
199 
128 
92 
a  A 15 mg/ m2-dose corresponds to approximately a 25-mg dose, using a conversion factor of 1.8 m2 for average adult body surface area 
The demographic and baseline characteristics for the Phase III advanced RCC study are presented in 
the Clinical efficacy section. 
Patients with advanced RCC, prostate cancer or breast cancer received high temsirolimus doses (75 or 
250  mg)  in  3  Phase  II  studies.  Prostate  cancer  patients  were  slightly  older  (median  71  years, 
range 51-87),  while  breast  cancer  patients  were  slightly  younger  (median  56  years,  range  30-79). 
These  patients  were  mainly  Caucasian  (96%  and  95%,  respectively).  Most  patients  had  good 
performance  status  (ECOG  PS  0-1  or  KPS  80-100),  with  a  minority  of  patients  having  poor 
performance status. 
In  Study  3066K1-304-WW,  patients  had  higher  exposure  to  temsirolimus  when  it  was  administered 
alone  rather  than  in  combination  with  IFN-alpha.  Median  duration  of  temsirolimus  treatment  for 
patients who received temsirolimus 25 mg or temsirolimus 15 mg/IFN-alpha was 17 weeks (1-126) and 
15 weeks  (1-138),  respectively.  Sixty  patients  in  the  temsirolimus  and  43  patients  in  the  combination 
©EMEA 2007 
35/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
arm were treated for at least 32 weeks. The median relative dose intensity was 0.99 (range 0.43-1.2) and 
0.75 (range 0.08-1.0) for patients in the temsirolimus alone and combination arms, respectively. 
In the IFN-alpha arm, the median actual dose was 28.5 MU per week (3.0-53.2) as compared with an 
expected maximum dose of 54 and 18 MU per week. In the combination arm, the median actual dose 
for the IFN-alpha arm was 13.5 MU per week (5.0-19.8 MU). 
The median duration of treatment was 8.0 weeks (1-124) for IFN-alpha alone and 12.0 weeks (1-138) 
for  IFN-alpha  in  the  combination  with  temsirolimus.  Median  duration  of  temsirolimus  treatment  in 
Study  3066K1-200-US  was  longer  (26  weeks,  1-193)  in  the  temsirolimus  25  mg  dose  group.  In  the 
Study  3066K1-124-US,  median  duration  of  both  temsirolimus  and  IFN-alpha  treatment  was  also 
longer (24 weeks, 4- 136). This difference in exposure was likely due to the more advanced disease 
stage of patients in the Phase III studies. 
Although relative dose intensity was lower at higher temsirolimus doses, patients were able to tolerate 
single-agent temsirolimus at a dose almost 10 times higher than that tested in the Phase III study. For 
patients  who  received  75  and  250 mg  the  median  dose  intensities  were  54.0 mg/week  and 
170.8 mg/week,  respectively,  whereas  the  median  treatment  duration  decreased  with  higher  doses 
from 22 to 16.5 weeks, respectively. 
•  Adverse events 
All  but  one  patient  in  the  study  population  of  the  pivotal  study  experienced  one  or  more  TEAE. 
Table 17  displays  the  TEAE  per  system  class  organ  (SOC)  and  then  by  decreasing  incidence  for 
temsirolimus 25 mg treatment group. 
©EMEA 2007 
36/47 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17. 
Studies 3066K1-304-WW - Number (%) of patients reporting TEAE (≥ 10%) 
Body System 
Adverse Event 
Any adverse event 
Body as a whole 
Asthenia 
Pain 
Fever 
Abdominal pain 
Back pain 
Chest pain 
Headache 
Infection 
Chills 
Flu syndrome 
Cardiovascular system 
Digestive system 
Nausea 
Anorexia 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation 
Stomatitis 
Vomiting 
Mucositis 
Haemic and lymphatic system 
Anaemia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Neutropenia 
Leucopenia 
Lymphopenia 
Metabolic and nutritional 
Hyperlipaemia 
Peripheral oedema 
Hyperglycaemia 
Hypercholesteremia 
Weight loss 
Creatinine increased 
Alkaline phosphatase increased 
Hypophosphataemia 
AST increased 
Hypoproteinaemia 
Hypocalcaemia 
Dehydration 
Musculoskeletal system 
Arthralgia 
Myalgia 
Nervous system 
Insomnia 
Dizziness 
Anxiety 
Somnolence 
Confusion 
Depression 
Respiratory system 
Dyspnoea 
Cough increased 
Epistaxis 
Pharyngitis 
Skin and appendages 
Rash 
Pruritus 
Nail disorder 
Dry skin 
Acne 
Special senses 
Taste perversion 
Urogenital system 
Urinary tract infection 
IFN 
n=200 
199 (99.5) 
184 (92.0) 
129 (64.5) 
30 (15.0) 
99 (49.5) 
34 (17.0) 
30 (15.0) 
18 (9.0) 
30 (15.0) 
11 (5.5) 
59 (29.5) 
23 (11.5) 
64 (32.0) 
151 (75.5) 
83 (41.5) 
87 (43.5) 
39 (19.5) 
36 (18.0) 
7 (3.5) 
57 (28.5) 
10 (5.0) 
113 (56.5) 
84 (42.0) 
16 (8.0) 
26 (13.0) 
34 (17.0) 
17 (8.5) 
138 (69.0) 
29 (14.5) 
16 (8.0) 
22 (11.0) 
9 (4.5) 
50 (25.0) 
21 (10.5) 
15 (7.5) 
4 (2.0) 
29 (14.5) 
19 (9.5) 
21 (10.5) 
20 (10.0) 
67 (33.5) 
29 (14.5) 
30 (15.0) 
110 (55.0) 
30 (15.0) 
25 (12.5) 
12 (6.0) 
21 (10.5) 
20 (10.0) 
26 (13.0) 
94 (47.0) 
48 (24.0) 
29 (14.5) 
7 (3.5) 
3 (1.5) 
51 (25.5) 
11 (5.5) 
16 (8.0) 
1 (0.5) 
14 (7.0) 
2 (1.0) 
31 (15.5) 
13 (6.5) 
48 (24.0) 
10 (5.0) 
Temsirolimus 
n=208 
208 (100 ) 
179 (86.1) 
106 (51.0) 
58 (27.9) 
51 (24.5) 
46 (22.1) 
43 (20.7) 
35 (16.8) 
32 (15.4) 
29 (13.9) 
17 (8.2) 
7 (3.4) 
68 (32.7) 
165 (79.3) 
77 (37.0) 
66 (31.7) 
57 (27.4) 
42 (20.2) 
41 (19.7) 
40 (19.2) 
39 (18.8) 
116 (55.8) 
94 (45.2) 
28 (13.5) 
15 (7.2) 
13 (6.3) 
11 (5.3) 
159 (76.4) 
57 (27.4) 
55 (26.4) 
53 (25.5) 
51 (24.5) 
40 (19.2) 
30 (14.4) 
20 (9.6) 
17 (8.2) 
17 (8.2) 
12 (5.8) 
11 (5.3) 
10 (4.8) 
61 (29.3) 
38 (18.3) 
16 (7.7) 
96 (46.2) 
25 (12.0) 
19 (9.1) 
16 (7.7) 
14 (6.7) 
9 (4.3) 
9 (4.3) 
132 (63.5) 
59 (28.4) 
54 (26.0) 
25 (12.0) 
25 (12.0) 
140 (67.3) 
77 (37.0) 
40 (19.2) 
28 (13.5) 
22 (10.6) 
21 (10.1) 
66 (31.7) 
31 (14.9) 
53 (25.5) 
16 (7.7) 
Temsirolimus/IFN
n=208 
208 (100 ) 
196 (94.2) 
130 (62.5) 
42 (20.2) 
126 (60.6) 
36 (17.3) 
32 (15.4) 
23 (11.1) 
47 (22.6) 
31 (14.9) 
72 (34.6) 
28 (13.5) 
83 (39.9) 
171 (82.2) 
84 (40.4) 
79 (38.0) 
56 (26.9) 
40 (19.2) 
44 (21.2) 
61 (29.3) 
48 (23.1) 
172 (82.7) 
128 (61.5) 
78 (37.5) 
57 (27.4) 
65 (31.3) 
27 (13.0) 
172 (82.7) 
80 (38.5) 
36 (17.3) 
36 (17.3) 
55 (26.4) 
66 (31.7) 
41 (19.7) 
31 (14.9) 
21 (10.1) 
43 (20.7) 
21 (10.1) 
31 (14.9) 
23 (11.1) 
61 (29.3) 
28 (13.5) 
22 (10.6) 
113 (54.3) 
35 (16.8) 
27 (13.0) 
23 (11.1) 
15 (7.2) 
10 (4.8) 
26 (12.5) 
134 (64.4) 
55 (26.4) 
48 (23.1) 
27 (13.0) 
27 (13.0) 
86 (41.3) 
34 (16.3) 
24 (11.5) 
6 (2.9) 
13 (6.3) 
7 (3.4) 
36 (17.3) 
18 (8.7) 
61 (29.3) 
22 (10.6) 
©EMEA 2007 
37/47 
Temsirolimus  25  mg  was  associated  with  a  lower  overall  incidence  of  Grade  3  or  4  TEAE  (66.8% 
vs. 77.5%,  respectively)  compared  with  IFN-alpha.  The  most  common  Grade  3  or  4 TEAE  reported 
for  temsirolimus  25 mg  included  anaemia  (19.7%  vs.  21.5%),  asthenia  (11.1  vs.  26%)  and 
hyperglycaemia (10.6% vs. 1.5%). Severe anaemia and asthenia were reported more frequently in the 
IFN-alpha  treated  group.  The  incidence  of  certain  Grade  3  or  4  metabolic  abnormalities  was 
significantly  higher  with  temsirolimus  25  mg  compared  to  IFN-alpha,  including  hyperglycaemia, 
hypophosphataemia (5.3% vs. 0.5%) and hypokalaemia (3.4% vs. 0%). 
The  combination  of  temsirolimus  with  IFN-alpha  was  associated  with  highest  overall  incidence  of 
Grade  3  or  4  TEAE  (86.5%  vs.  77.5%  for  IFN-alpha  and  66.8%  for  temsirolimus  25  mg).  Body 
systems most frequently affected following administration of temsirolimus 15 mg/IFN-alpha included 
haemic and lymphatic (56.7%), body as a whole (44.2%), metabolic and nutritional (37.5%), digestive 
system (28.8%) and respiratory system (20.7%). 
Based on previous clinical experience with temsirolimus, certain categories of AE with special interest 
are presented below. 
Hypersensitivity and acute reactions 
Allergic  reactions  occurring  on  the  dosing  day  were  reported  for  1  (0.5%)  patient  in  the  IFN-alpha 
arm, 10 (4.8%) patients in the temsirolimus arm and 11 (5.3%) patients in the combination arm. Most 
of  these  events  were  of  low  grade.  Two  patients  in  the  combination  arm  were  discontinued  due  to 
allergic reactions on dosing day. All but one patient who experienced allergic reactions had received 
premedication with an antihistamine prior to temsirolimus administration according to the protocol. 
For  4  patients  in  the  temsirolimus  and  in  the  combination  arms,  re-exposition  to  the  drug  led  to  a 
repeat  experience  of  allergic  reactions.  Indicators  of  possible  hypersensitivity  were  observed  in 
2 patients  in  the  temsirolimus  arm  and  3  in  the  combination  arm  (allergic  reaction  plus  oedema, 
vasodilatation, dizziness and dyspnoea). 
Bleeding and thrombotic events 
Bleeding events were observed in 17% of patients in the IFN-alpha arm, 24.5% in the temsirolimus 
arm and 25% in the combination arm. Minor bleeding (epistaxis) was the most frequent bleeding event 
and had at least 3-times the incidence in either the temsirolimus or combination arm as compared to 
the  IFN-alpha  arm  (3.5%,  12.0%  and  13.0%  in  the  IFN-alpha,  temsirolimus  and  combination  arm, 
respectively). 
Haematologic events 
Anaemia  was  the  most  frequent  haematologic  event,  with  reported  incidences  of  41.5%  in  the 
IFN-alpha arm, 45.2% in temsirolimus arm and 61.1% in the combination arms. 
The incidences of neutropenia, leucopenia and lymphopenia were lower in the temsirolimus arm than 
in  the  IFN-alpha  arm.  Thrombocytopenia  and  neutropenia  had  at  least  twice  the  incidence  in  the 
combination arm as in either the IFN-alpha or temsirolimus arm. 
Metabolic events 
Hypercholesterolaemia,  hypophosphataemia,  hyperlipaemia,  hyperglycaemia  and  diabetes  mellitus 
had  at  least  a  2-fold  increase  in  incidence  in  patients  in  at  least  one  temsirolimus-containing  arm 
compared  to  the  IFN-alpha  arm.  Hypocalcaemia  had  approximately  half  the  incidence  in  the 
temsirolimus arm as in the IFN-alpha arm. 
Infection-related events 
Infection-related  events  were  reported  for  14.5,  27.4  and  33.7%  in  the  IFN-alpha,  temsirolimus  and 
combination arms, respectively. “Infection” was the most frequent term in this category and had more 
than 3-times  the incidence in either the temsirolimus or in the  combination arm as in the IFN-alpha 
arm.  The  incidence  of  pneumonia  was  nearly  twice  as  high  in  the  temsirolimus-containing  arms 
©EMEA 2007 
38/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared to IFN-alpha arm. Respiratory infections were the most frequent type of infections. No case 
of systemic fungal infections or Pneumocystis carinii was reported. 
Cardiovascular events 
Cardiovascular  TEAE  had  a  similar  incidence  in  the  treatment  arms  (41.5,  45.2  and  46.2%  for 
IFN-alpha,  temsirolimus  and  combination,  respectively).  Cardiovascular  TEAE  reported  in  at  least 
5% of  patients  in  the  temsirolimus  arm  were  chest  pain  (18.3%),  dizziness  and  hypokalaemia 
(9.1% each), hypertension and somnolence (6.7% each). Of these events, hypokalaemia and chest pain 
were at least twice as frequent in the temsirolimus arm as compared to the IFN-alpha arm. 
Respiratory events 
“Dyspnoea” and “cough increased” were the most often reported events, both occurred more often in 
the  temsirolimus  arm  compared  to  the  IFN-alpha  arm,  with  a  statistically  significant  difference  for 
“cough increased”. About one third was considered treatment related by the investigator. Pneumonitis 
was reported for 4 patients in the temsirolimus arm. 
Renal events 
Renal  TEAE  reported  for  at  least  5%  of  patients  in  the  temsirolimus  arm  were  peripheral  oedema, 
increased creatinine and oedema. Peripheral oedema and oedema had more than twice the incidence in 
the  temsirolimus  arm  as  compared  to  the  IFN-alpha  arm,  while  dehydration  and  hyperkalaemia  had 
approximately  half  the  incidence  in  the  temsirolimus  arm  as  compared  to  the  IFN-alpha  arm.  There 
were very few patients with Grade 3 or 4 peripheral oedema (5 patients, 2.4% in the temsirolimus arm 
only) or oedema (1 patient, 0.5%, in each treatment arm). 
Thirteen patients had acute kidney failure: 6 patients in the IFN-alpha arm, 3 in the temsirolimus arm 
and 4 in the combination arm. 
Renal-related  events  had  approximately  twice  the  incidence  in  either  temsirolimus-containing  arm 
(24.5  and  24.0%  in  the  temsirolimus  and  combination  arms,  respectively)  as  in  the  IFN-alpha  arm 
(12.0%). Creatinine increase was the most frequent renal-related event and it had over 3-fold incidence 
in the temsirolimus and the combination arm (11.1% in each) as in the IFN-alpha arm (3.5%). 
Rash-related events 
Both rash and acne had more than twice the incidence in the temsirolimus or combination arm as in 
the  IFN-alpha  arm.  Rashes  had  a  higher  incidence  in  the  temsirolimus  arm  than  in  the  combination 
arm, so it could be possibility related to the administered dose. 
Of  note,  the  incidences  of  maculopapular  rash  and  pustular  rash  were  low  (2.9%  and  1.4%, 
respectively). All cases of acne and most cases of rash were of low grade. Grade 3 or 4 rashes were 
reported for 0% of patients in the IFN-alpha arm, 2.4% of patients in the temsirolimus arm and 1.0% 
of patients in the combination arm. 
The  pattern  of  AE  observed  in  36  patients  included  in  the  Study  3066K1-200-US  receiving 
temsirolimus 25 mg/week, was similar to what has been previously reported. The incidences of back 
pain,  infection,  diarrhoea,  stomatitis,  mucositis,  vomiting  and  rash  were  substantially  higher,  the 
incidence of anaemia was lower. 
In  total  199  cancer  patients  were  treated  with  higher  doses  of  temsirolimus  (75  and  250  mg/week). 
Dose-dependency  was  found  for  incidences  of  the  following  TEAE  (incidence  ≥ 10%  for  any  dose 
group  and  ≥ 2-fold  higher  incidence  at  higher  doses)  in  the  25,  75  and  250  mg  dose  groups, 
respectively: 
Gastrointestinal system  
• 
stomatitis (24.6%, 51.0%, 50.5%)  
•  dry mouth (7.0%, 10.6%, 17.9%) 
•  mouth ulceration (2.9%, 13.5%, 11.6%). 
©EMEA 2007 
39/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin and appendages 
acne (12.3%, 29.8%, 30.5%) 
• 
•  maculopapular rash (4.9%, 11.5%,10.5%) 
• 
alopecia (2.9%, 7.7%, 15.8%). 
Nervous system 
• 
insomnia (11.1%, 20.2%, 21.1%) 
• 
somnolence (5.7%, 18.3%, 21.1%) 
•  depression (5.3%, 12.5%, 23.2%). 
For the following TEAE, there was also a dose-dependent trend for the incidence: infection, flu-like 
syndrome, urinary tract infection, thrombocytopenia, leucopenia and epistaxis. While the incidence of 
TEAE  increased  with  dose,  the  overall  incidence  of  Grade  3  and  4  TEAE  was  similar.  For  some 
Grade 3 and 4 TEAE, a dose-dependent increase was observed in the 25, 75 and 250 mg dose groups: 
stomatitis (1.2 %, 2.9%, 6.3%), thrombosis (0.4, 2.9 and 5.3%) and depression (0.4, 1.0 and 7.4%). 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The number of deaths within 30 days of the first dose of study drug was 35 for all treatment arms in 
Study 3066K1-304. The lowest was in the temsirolimus arm (4/35) compared with IFN-alpha (18/35) 
or the combination (13/35). Two deaths in the temsirolimus  arm were deemed related to study drug 
(hyperkalaemia  and  acute  renal  failure  in  one  patient  each),  compared  with  1  in  the  IFN-alpha  arm 
(cerebral vascular disorder) and 7 in the combination arm (renal failure [2], adult respiratory distress 
failure [1], 
infarction  and 
syndrome  and  acute 
cardiorespiratory insufficiency [1], cerebral stroke [1], bronchiolitis obliterans [1]). 
failure [1],  acute  myocardial 
renal 
renal 
The number of deaths within 15 days of the last dose of study drug was 67 for all treatment arms in 
Study 3066K1-304, the lowest was in the temsirolimus arm (13/67) compared with IFN-alpha (24/67) 
or  the  combination  arm    (30/67).  No  death  occurred  within  15  days  after  the  last  dose  in 
Study 3066K1-200, and only one death, considered study drug related, occurred in Study 3066K1-124. 
Nine  and  5  deaths  occurred  within  30  days  after  the  last  dose  in  Studies  3066K1-100-US  and 
3066K1-101-EU,  respectively.  Only  1  death  was  considered  related  to  study  drug  (intracranial 
haemorrhage) in Study 3066K1-101-EU. 
Overall,  almost  half  of  the  patients  treated  in  Study  3066K1-304  had  at  least  1  SAE.  The  overall 
incidence  of  SAE  was  lowest  in  the  temsirolimus  arm  (38.5%)  compared  with  the  IFN-alpha  or 
combination  arms  (48.5  and  55.3%,  respectively).  In  the  temsirolimus  arm,  the  most  commonly 
reported  SAE  were  anaemia  (5.3%);  pneumonia  (4.8%);  abdominal  pain  (3.4%);  dehydration  and 
hyperglycaemia (2.9% each); asthenia and carcinoma (2.4% each). 
The  incidence  of  individual  SAE  was  generally  similar  across  the  3  treatment  groups,  with  the 
exception  of  a  higher  incidence  of  hyperglycaemia  SAE  in  the  temsirolimus  arm  (6  patients,  2.9%) 
compared  with  the  IFN-alpha  arm  (0%).  The  type  of  individual  SAE  seen  with  temsirolimus  was 
consistent with its overall TEAE profile. The overall incidence of treatment-related SAE was 17.8 and 
14.0%  in  the  temsirolimus  and  IFN-alpha  arms  respectively  and  was  higher  in  the  combination 
arm (26.0%). 
In  the  Phase II  studies,  in  patients  receiving  temsirolimus  75  or  250 mg/week,  SAE  that  were 
considered  drug-related  occurred  more  often  in  higher  doses:  fever,  infection,  diarrhoea,  nausea, 
vomiting  and  dehydration.  Of  note  is  that  4/104  patients  receiving  75 mg  reported  interstitial 
pneumonia. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Table  18  presents  the  overall  and  Grade  3  or  4  incidences  of  laboratory  parameters  considered  of 
special interest. 
©EMEA 2007 
40/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18. 
Studies 3066K1-304-WW – Laboratory parameters of special interest 
Parameter, n (%) 
Any abnormality 
Blood chemistry 
Glucose (low) 
Glucose (high) 
Total cholesterol/lipid (high) 
Triglycerides (high) 
AST (high) 
Alkaline phosphatase (high) 
Total bilirubin (high) 
Creatinine (high) 
Calcium (low) 
Calcium (high) 
Phosphorus (low) 
Haematology 
Haemoglobin (low) 
WBC (low) 
Neutrophils (low) 
Lymphocytes (low) 
Platelet count (low) 
All Grades 
208 (100) 
Grade 3/4 
162 (77.9) 
11 (5.3) 
186 (89.4) 
181 (87.0) 
173 (83.2) 
79 (38.0) 
141 (67.8) 
16 (7.7) 
119 (57.2) 
82 (39.4) 
46 (22.1) 
102 (49.0) 
195 (93.8) 
67 (32.2) 
39 (18.8) 
110 (52.9) 
84 (40.4) 
2 (1.0) 
33 (15.9) 
5 (2.4) 
92 (44.2) 
5 (2.4) 
7 (3.4) 
2 (1.0) 
7 (3.4) 
9 (4.3) 
8 (3.8) 
38 (18.3) 
41 (19.7) 
1 (0.5) 
10 (4.8) 
33 (15.9) 
3 (1.4) 
Nearly  all  patients  reported  changes  in  laboratory  results.  Grade  3  and  4  changes  were  observed  in 
> 70%  of  patients  in  all  groups.  The  incidences  of  Grade  3  and  4  changes  for  hyperglycaemia, 
hypertriglyceridaemia  and  hypophosphataemia  were  higher  with  temsirolimus  compared  with 
IFN-alpha.  Although  creatinine  increase  and  thrombocytopenia  were  reported  more  often  for 
temsirolimus, the incidence of Grade 3 and 4 toxicity did not substantially increase. The Grade 3 and 4 
incidences were lower for temsirolimus for leucopenia, neutropenia and AP increase. 
temsirolimus  on 
QT/QTc interval 
in 
The  effect  of 
Study 3066K1-304-WW (18 and 13 patients in temsirolimus and combination arms, respectively) and 
53  patients  in  Study  3066K1-305-WW  study  who  received  higher  temsirolimus  doses  (27  and 
26 patients  in  temsirolimus  175/25  mg  and  175/75  mg,  respectively).  Analysis  of  within  group  and 
between-group  changes  in  QT/QTc  interval  did  not  reveal  any  clinically  important  trends  following 
temsirolimus treatment. 
interval  was  evaluated  for  31  patients 
the  QT/QTc 
Five  out  of  84  patients  had  a  clinically  noteworthy  value  for  QTc  interval  at  1  or  more  isolated 
post-baseline timepoints. One patient (175/25 mg) had a TEAE in association with a prolonged QTc 
interval which coincided with cardiac arrhythmia at the study withdrawal visit (1 week after the last 
dose of temsirolimus). The investigator judged the TEAE probably not related to treatment. The other 
four patients did not have clinical signs or symptoms in association with the QTc findings. 
Analysis  of  ECG  data  for  36  healthy  subjects  who  received  a  single  IV  temsirolimus  dose  ranging 
from  1  to  25  mg  showed  that  no  prolonged  QTc  interval.  There  were  no  AE  reports  of  ‘torsade  de 
pointes’ or other arrhythmia for any healthy subject. 
Given the relatively modest number of patients and subjects tested, a potential effect of temsirolimus 
on  the  QT/QTc  interval  cannot  be  conclusively  ruled  out.  A  Phase  I  study  in  healthy  subjects 
evaluating the effect of temsirolimus on the QT/QTc interval is ongoing. 
•  Safety in special populations 
In the pivotal study, the temsirolimus 25 mg treated-group had 63 patients (30%) that were ≥ 65 years 
old. The incidence of TEAE in this population was generally similar for patients < 65 years old. Older 
patients  treated  with  temsirolimus  appear  to  have  an  increased  incidence  of  face  oedema,  increased 
lactic dehydrogenase and pneumonia compared with younger patients. 
©EMEA 2007 
41/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the temsirolimus 25 mg treated-group, 70 patients (34%) were female. The incidence of most TEAE 
was  generally  similar  both  for  men  and  women.  There  was  no  consistent  trend  indicating  increased 
risk for any event based on sex. 
Preliminary results of Study 3066K1-152-US in patients with various degrees of hepatic impairment 
indicate that thrombocytopenia is a DLT for the mild dose cohorts (15-25 mg) leading to de-escalation 
and multiple dose delays. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Three  Phase  I  drug-interaction  studies  were  conducted  with  temsirolimus  in  healthy  subjects.  The 
results are described in the Pharmacokinetics section. As a general recommendation: 
•  Caution should be used when temsirolimus is administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors 
•  Caution should be used when administering strong CYP3A4 inducers with temsirolimus 
•  Co-administering temsirolimus with CYP2D6 substrates requires no dosage adjustment 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In Study 3066K1-304, temsirolimus was associated with a lower overall incidence of TEAE leading to 
dose  reduction  or  treatment  discontinuation  (20.2  and  18.3%,  respectively)  as  compared  with 
IFN-alpha (39.5 and 30.5%, respectively) or with the combination (47.6 and 36.5%, respectively). The 
overall  incidence  of  TEAE  leading  to  dose  delay  was  similar  for  both  temsirolimus  25 mg  and 
IFN-alpha  (51.4 vs.  47.0%,  respectively)  but  higher  in  the  combination  arm  (72.6%).  Grade  3  or  4 
asthenia  and  anaemia  were  the  most  common  events  leading  to  modification  of  temsirolimus 
treatment. 
TEAE leading to treatment discontinuation reported for ≥ 1% of patients who received temsirolimus 
25  mg  were  dyspnoea  (2.4%),  creatinine  increased  (1.9%),  back  pain  (1.4%)  and  abdominal  pain, 
anaemia,  confusion  and  pleural  effusion  (1.0%  each).  TEAE  leading  to  treatment  discontinuation 
reported for ≥ 1% of patients who received IFN-alpha were mainly asthenia (10.5%) and TEAE from 
nervous system (7.5%). 
•  Post-marketing experience 
None, although recently approved in the USA. 
5 
Pharmacovigilance 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
©EMEA 2007 
42/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Interstitial lung disease  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities  Proposed risk minimisation activities 
QT interval 
prolongation 
Dyspnoea 
Hyperglycaemia 
Diabetes Mellitus 
Development and implementation of an 
active query tool in Wyeth sponsored studies 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Development and implementation of an 
active query tool and ECG monitoring in 
Wyeth sponsored studies 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proactively collect cardiopulmonary function 
data at baseline in Wyeth sponsored studies 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proactively collect HbgA1c data at baseline 
and at specific time points in Wyeth 
sponsored studies 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Drug interactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Off-label use 
Infections 
Routine pharmacovigilance Support sponsor 
and investigator studies 
Utilisation study post launch 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Use in hepatic impaired 
patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Use in patients with 
significant CV disease 
Renal impaired patients  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Patients with active 
infection or recent 
surgery 
Intracerebral bleeding 
Abnormal wound 
healing 
Hypersensitivity 
reaction 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Lymphoproliferative 
disease/skin cancer 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
- 
SPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
SPC section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.5 Interaction with other 
medicinal products and other forms of 
interaction 
- 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
SPC section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
- 
SPC section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
SPC section 4.3 Contraindications. 
SPC section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions 
SPC section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
- 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
©EMEA 2007 
43/47 
 
6 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Kidney cancer represents approximately 2% of all cancers worldwide and is responsible for 2% of all 
cancer-related  deaths.  Renal  cell  carcinoma  (RCC)  are  tumours  that  are  mainly  of  epithelial  origin. 
Approximately  30%  of  RCC  patients  have  metastases  at  the  time  of  initial  diagnosis.  For  the  last 
20 years,  immunotherapy  with  cytokines  has  been  the  standard  care  of  treatment  for  patients  with 
advanced  RCC.  The  two  different  cytokines  used  for  the  treatment  of  advanced  RCC  are 
interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) and interleukin-2 (IL-2). 
RCC,  which  originates  in  the  renal  cortex,  accounts  for  up  to  85%  of  malignant  kidney  tumours. 
Tumours in stages I-III require surgical procedures as part of standard care. It has been shown that in 
patients diagnosed with Stage I, 50% can be cured by nephrectomy, whereas almost 30% of patients 
presenting  with  Stage  IV  are  incurable.  Without  intervention,  patients  with  advanced  RCC  have  a 
median overall survival (OS) of approximately one year and a 5-year survival rate of ≤ 10%. Surgical 
resection may be appropriate for selected patients, including those with isolated metastases. However, 
the  disease  often  recurs,  even  when  the  primary  and  metastatic  sites  are  aggressively  resected. 
Radiation  therapy  can  provide  significant  palliation  of  painful  metastases.  The  use  of  conventional 
chemotherapy has generally been very limited because of low rate of responders to therapy, leading to 
a poor rate survival benefit. 
When  temsirolimus  development  started,  the  only  available  active  comparators  were  IFN-alpha  and 
IL-2.  There  is  no  clinical  data  comparing  temsirolimus  with  recently  approved  drugs  (sorafenib  and 
sunitinib) for an indication in RCC. Moreover, comparisons of study results would be hazardous since 
the main criteria defining the clinical trial population are different. 
Quality 
Quality aspects are satisfactory. There are no unresolved quality issues which could have a negative 
impact on the risk/benefit balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Adverse reactions not observed in clinical studies, but seen in animals at exposure levels similar to or 
even  lower  than  clinical  exposure  levels,  with  possible  relevance  to  clinical  use,  were  as  follows: 
pancreatic  islet  cell  vacuolation,  testicular  tubular  degeneration,  lymphoid  atrophy,  mixed  cell 
inflammation of the colon/cecum and pulmonary phospholipidosis. 
Diarrhoea,  with  mixed  cell  inflammation  of  the  cecum  or  colon,  was  observed  in  monkeys  and  was 
associated  with  an  inflammatory  response  that  may  have  been  due  to  a  disruption  of  the  normal 
intestinal flora. 
General inflammatory responses, as indicated by increased fibrinogen and neutrophils and/or changes 
in  serum  protein,  were  observed  in  mice,  rats  and  monkeys.  Although  in  some  cases  these  clinical 
pathologic changes were attributed to skin or intestinal inflammation as noted above, for some animal 
species?,  there  were  no  specific  clinical  observations  or  histological  changes  that  suggested 
inflammation. 
Temsirolimus  was  not  genotoxic  in  a  battery  of  in  vitro  (bacterial  reverse  mutation  in  Salmonella 
typhimurium  and  Escherichia  coli,  forward  mutation  in  mouse  lymphoma  cells  and  chromosome 
aberrations in Chinese hamster ovary cells) and in vivo (mouse micronucleus) assays. 
Carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  conducted  with  temsirolimus,  however,  sirolimus,  the  major 
metabolite of temsirolimus in humans, was carcinogenic in mice and rats. The following effects were 
reported  in  mice  and/or  rats  in  the  carcinogenicity  studies  conducted:  granulocytic  leukaemia, 
lymphoma, hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma and testicular adenoma. 
©EMEA 2007 
44/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In reproduction studies in animals, temsirolimus caused embryo/foetotoxicity that manifested itself as 
foetal mortality and reduced foetal weights (with associated delays in skeletal ossification) in rats and 
rabbits.  Teratogenic  effects  (omphalocele)  were  seen  in  rabbits.  In  reproduction  toxicity  studies  in 
animals, decreased fertility and partly reversible reductions in sperm counts were reported in male rats. 
Reductions  in  testicular  weights  and/or  histological  lesions  (e.g.  tubular  atrophy  and  tubular  giant 
cells) were observed in mice, rats and monkeys. In rats, a decrease in weight of accessory sex organs 
(epididymides, prostate, seminal vesicles) was observed. 
Efficacy 
The clinical dossier includes a pivotal multicentre multinational randomised Phase III study involving 
more  than  626  patients  and  a  supportive  randomised  dose-comparing  Phase  II  study  involving  111 
patients.  The  study  design  of  the  pivotal  study  comparing  temsirolimus  with  IFN-alpha  and  the 
combination of both is endorsed. IFN-alpha-2a is a well known reference therapy and was considered 
an appropriate comparator since, at the time the study was planned, there was no other therapy leading 
to a survival benefit in second line RCC. 
Patients with histologically or cytologically confirmed, advanced (Stage IV or recurrent disease) RCC 
who  had  not  received  prior  systemic  therapy  for  their  disease  and  who  presented  with  3  of 
6 protocol-specified prognostic factors (< 1 year from time of initial RCC diagnosis to randomisation, 
Karnofsky performance  status  of  60  or 70,  haemoglobin  less  than the  lower  limit  of  normal  (ULN), 
hypocalcaemia,  LDH  > 1.5 times  the  upper  limit  of  normal,  >  1  metastatic  site  of  disease)  were 
eligible  for  the  pivotal  study.  Stratification  by  nephrectomy  status  (a  well  known  prognostic  factor) 
and  geographical  region  (to  cover  possible  imbalances  by  regional  differences)  was  justified.  In 
addition, the choice of OS for the primary endpoint was accepted. 
The  final  results  of  the  pivotal  Phase  III  study  showed  that  the  median  OS  for  temsirolimus  was 
statistically  significant  and  clinically  meaningful  longer,  demonstrating  an  OS  of  10.9  months 
compared to 7.3 months for the IFN-alpha alone, (HR: 0.78, 95% CI: 0.63-0.97). For the comparison 
between the combination of temsirolimus and IFN-alpha with IFN-alpha alone, the difference in OS 
was not statistically significant. At the time of the final analysis more than 80% of patients had died. 
The favourable treatment effect on OS of temsirolimus in comparison to IFN-alpha alone is observed 
across all randomisation strata (3 geographical regions and for patients with or without nephrectomy). 
The robustness of the results has also been shown with several sensitivity analyses (including analyses 
per number of poor risk factors).  
in 
in 
the 
(95% CI:  3.6-5.2) 
IFN-alpha  arm,  3.8 
The results for the secondary endpoints of temsirolimus  monotherapy are consistent with the results 
for  the  primary  endpoint.  Median  PFS  from  investigator  assessments  was  1.9  months  (95%  CI: 
1.9-2.2) 
temsirolimus  arm  and 
3.7 (95% CI: 3.1-5.2)  in  the  combination  arm.  The  2-fold  difference  between  temsirolimus  and 
IFN-alpha  was  statistically  significant.  Based  on  the  independent  assessment,  the  objective  response 
rate was 5.3% in the IFN-alpha arm, 9.1% in the temsirolimus arm and 9.5% in the combination arm. 
SD for at least 6 weeks was observed more often in the temsirolimus arm (133 patients, 63.6%) than in 
the IFN-alpha arm (80 patients, 38.6%) or in the combination arm (109 patients, 51.9%). Most of the 
remaining  patients  had  PD  or  no  post-baseline  evaluation  It  is  thought  that  the  difference  in  PFS 
results obtained between investigator and independent assessment (1.9 and 3.8 months, respectively) 
may  be  because  of  the  high  number  of  missing  post-baseline  tumour  assessments,  the  different 
methods  used  for  classification  of  progression  based  on  clinical  deterioration  and  the  systematic 
problems occurring with the independent review.  
the 
Safety 
Adverse  events  of  all  grades,  with  a  significantly  higher  incidence  with  temsirolimus  25  mg  versus 
IFN-alpha were rash, maculopapular rash, pruritic rash, skin disorder, pruritus, exfoliative dermatitis, 
nail  disorder,  acne,  hyperlipaemia,  hyperglycaemia,  hypercholesteremia,  hypophosphataemia, 
hypokalaemia, oedema including peripheral oedema and face oedema, increased cough, rhinitis, upper 
©EMEA 2007 
45/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respiratory infection, epistaxis, pharyngitis, chest pain, gastrointestinal stomatitis, mucositis, aphthous 
stomatitis, pain, infection, diabetes mellitus, conjunctivitis, taste perversion, and allergic reactions. 
The  global  safety  profile  of  temsirolimus  25  mg  is  favourable  compared  to  IFN-alpha.  For 
temsirolimus, lower incidences of Grade 3 and 4 toxicities and serious adverse events, longer time on 
treatment,  less  treatment  discontinuation  due  to  adverse  events  and  a  lower  rate  of  death  within  the 
first  30  days  of  dose  were  observed.  In  addition,  an  explorative  analysis  demonstrated  that  the 
treatment outcome for patients showing rash as an AE while treated with temsirolimus appears to be 
numerically better than for patients without rash. 
Investigations  of  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  and  in  paediatric  population 
are currently ongoing and results are pending. These will be part of the requested FUM. Finally, as for 
any immunosuppressive agents, there is a potential risk of secondary malignancies. 
From  the  safety  database  all  adverse  reactions  reported  in  clinical  trials  have  been  included  in  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in Section 3.5 are adequately addressed. 
•  User consultation 
The Patient Information Leaflet (PIL) for TORISEL 25 mg/ml Concentrate and diluent for solution for 
infusion  (temsirolimus)  has  been  tested  in  English  in  accordance  with  Articles  59(3)  and  61(1)  of 
Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  by  Directive  2004/27/EC.  The  PIL  for  TORISEL  25  mg/ml 
Concentrate and diluent for solution for infusion (temsirolimus) was found to contain all the necessary 
information in a way that is accessible and understandable to those who participated in this test. 
It is considered that the tested PIL meets the requirements set for User Testing. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
In the treatment of patients with  advanced RCC who have not previously received systemic therapy 
and  who  have  at  least  3  of  6  prognostic  risk  factors,  the  benefit  of  a  favourable  overall  survival  of 
temsirolimus compared to IFN-alpha overweighs the risk of the treatment. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that: 
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The CHMP is of the opinion that TORISEL is not similar to Sutent or Nexavar within the meaning of 
Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200 (see appendix 1) on the basis that TORISEL 
has a different molecular structure and mechanism of action then the other 2 medicinal products. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus/majority  decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  TORISEL  for  first  line  treatment  of 
patients  with  advanced  renal  cell  carcinoma  who  have  at  least  3  of  6  prognostic  risk  factors  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.. 
©EMEA 2007 
46/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition,  the  CHMP,  with  reference  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  EC  No  141/2000,  considers 
TORISEL not to be similar (as defined in Article 3 of Commission Regulation EC No. 847/2000) to 
authorised orphan medicinal products for the same therapeutic indication. 
©EMEA 2007 
47/47 
 
 
