24 September 2012 
EMA/561830/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report  
Torisel 
temsirolimus 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/000799/A20/0051 
Note 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Note ............................................................................................................ 1 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment ...................................... 4 
4. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 5 
Assessment report  
EMA/561830/2012  
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
The US Food and Drug Administration informed the European Medicines Agency that following an 
inspection, concerns have been raised about the conduct of bio-analytical studies performed by the 
Cetero research facilities in Houston (Texas, USA) during the period from April 2005 to June 2010. The 
inspection identified significant instances of misconduct and violations of federal regulations, including 
falsification of documents and manipulation of samples. 
In the European Union, it was identified that this could potentially impact the marketing authorisation 
of Torisel. 
On 16 November 2011 the European Medicines Agency (EMA) informed relevant MAHs that the Food 
and Drug Administration had raised concerns, following its inspection of Cetero Research facilities in 
Houston (Texas, USA), on the conduct of bio-analytical studies in the period between April 2005 and 
June 2010. The EMA asked MAH of all centrally authorised medicinal products to identify the products 
for which the marketing authorisation dossier included studies conducted at the above mentioned 
facility. 
The MAH for Torisel provided responses on 14 December 2011. 
On 2 May 2012, the FDA informed the EMA of a letter sent to Cetero confirming that, based on the 
final results of the inspection, the period of concern for which data generated by Cetero was considered 
potentially unreliable and for which the FDA recommended actions to be taken is from April 2005 to 
August 2009. 
A Rapporteur’s assessment report on the MAH’s responses was circulated on 5 July 2012. 
In view of the above the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004. The European Commission requested the CHMP on 16 July 2012 to assess whether 
the deficiencies in conduct of bio-analytical studies performed by the Cetero Research facilities in 
Houston (Texas, USA) have impact on the benefit-risk balance of Torisel, and to give its opinion on 
whether measures are necessary to ensure the safe use of the product and specifically on whether the 
marketing authorisation for Torisel should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Torisel (temsirolimus) is a specific inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), an enzyme 
that regulates cell growth and proliferation. Temsirolimus exerts its effect on cell proliferation by 
inhibiting mTOR-dependent protein translation induced by growth factor stimulation of cells.  In 
addition to regulating cell cycle proteins, mTOR can regulate translation of the hypoxia inducible 
factors, HIF-1 and HIF-2 α. These transcription factors regulate the ability of tumors to adapt to 
hypoxic microenvironments and to produce the angiogenic factor vascular endothelial growth factor 
(VEGF).  
Temsirolimus first received marketing authorization in the European Union (EU) on 19 November 2007 
for first-line treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma who have at least 3 of 6 
prognostic risk factors. Subsequently, temsirolimus was approved in the EU also for the treatment of 
adult patients with relapsed and/or refractory mantle cell lymphoma. 
Study 3066K1-155-US entitled “A Single-Dose, Single-Blind, Placebo- and Moxifloxacin-Controlled 2-
Period, Randomized, Crossover, 3rd Period Sequential Study Of The Effects Of Temsirolimus On 
Cardiac repolarization In Healthy Subjects” was a QTc study of temsirolimus where part of the analysis 
were conducted by the concerned laboratory Cetero Research.  
Assessment report  
EMA/561830/2012  
Page 3/5 
 
 
 
 
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
Study 3066K1-155-US 
The final study report of study 3066K1-155-US was submitted as part of the marketing authorisation 
application.  
Participants in the study received either temsirolimus or placebo or moxifloxacin as positive control. 
The primary endpoint was to compare the effect on QTc interval between temsirolimus 25 mg single 
dose and placebo at 0.5 hours. The secondary endpoint was to characterise the PK/PD relationship. 
In this study, the plasma concentrations of moxifloxacin at 2 and 24 hours were used as positive 
control and were analysed at Ba Research International (Houston, Texas), now part of Cetero. The 
analyses were performed between 19 and 21 July 2006. 
The ECGs used to measure the primary endpoint parameters were electronically/digitally recorded by a 
third party vendor. Plasma concentrations of temsirolimus and sirolimus were also analysed by a 
different laboratory. Therefore any potential impact will be restricted to the plasma concentrations of 
the control moxifloxacin. 
As noted in the study report, ‘the presence of moxifloxacin did have a statistically significant positive 
effect by increasing the QTc interval. Notwithstanding, concentrations of moxifloxacin at the 2- and 24-
hour timepoints, however, were approximately a third of the concentrations reported in the 
moxifloxacin product label. The reason for this lower than expected exposure, however, is unclear.’ 
It can therefore be concluded that, while obvious discrepancies were noted for the control moxifloxacin 
between the plasma concentrations measured and the expected according to the product information, 
the validity of the primary endpoint determined by ECG measurements of temsirolimus was not 
affected by this issue. 
Additional data on QTc prologation 
The preclinical hERG channel data available as part of the marketing authorisation dossier does not 
suggest that temsirolimus had torsadogenous potential by inhibition of hERG channel fluxes.  
Routine monitoring of the potential risk for QTc interval prolongation is included in the Risk 
Management Plan. Known frequency of reporting of QT prolongation/torsades de pointes is 0.7% and 
2.3%, respectively.  
A renewal procedure is ongoing in parallel and includes a request for QT prolongation/torsades de 
pointes to be the object of a specific analysis in upcoming PSURs.  
3.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Data from the preclinical and clinical studies, and also from post-authorisation safety monitoring, are 
consistent and do not indicate a significant potential for QT prolongation/torsades de pointes.  
Nevertheless routine monitoring of the potential risk for QTc interval prolongation is included in the 
Risk Management Plan and will be discussed in upcoming PSURs.  
In study 3066K1-155-US, only the plasma concentrations of the positive control moxifloxacin were 
analysed by Cetero. As the ECG parameters and the plasma concentrations of temsirolimus and 
sirolimus were determined in different facilities, the results of the study continue to be valid.  
Assessment report  
EMA/561830/2012  
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP therefore concluded that the potential deficiencies in the conduct of bio-analytical studies by 
the Cetero Research facilities have no impact on the benefit-risk of Torisel. 
4.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas, 
The Committee considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, for 
• 
Torisel, initiated by the European Commission. 
The Committee reviewed the relevant data from preclinical and clinical studies, and from post-
• 
authorisation safety monitoring.  
The Committee concluded, in view of available data, that any potential deficiencies in the 
• 
conduct of bio-analytical studies by the Cetero Research facilities do not impact on the benefit-risk 
balance of Torisel. 
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Torisel remains positive 
under normal conditions of use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/561830/2012  
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
