25 May 2012 
EMA/303397/2012 
Assessment report for Torisel 
Review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, as amended 
INN: temsirolimus 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/799/A-20/0045 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
3. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 4 
2 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) was made aware on 10 November 2011 of the cessation of 
manufacture at Ben Venue Laboratories as a result of findings by the Supervisory Authorities of United 
Kingdom (MHRA) and France (AFSSAPS) and by US FDA inspectors during a Good Manufacturing 
Practice (GMP) inspection of Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc. (BVL) manufacturing site conducted jointly 
from 6 to 11 November 2011. This cessation included manufacturing operations in the three 
operational parts of the facility, North Complex, South Complex and Phase IV. 
This inspection was a follow-up to a previous inspection conducted in March 2011 that had been 
triggered by the European Medicines Agency as part of the increased surveillance of this site. During 
the November 2011 inspection, a critical finding was identified with regard to deficiencies in the quality 
oversight of manufacturing and quality operations. In particular the inspectors pointed out as critical 
that since the last inspection there was an elevated risk of lack of sterility in the batches manufactured 
at BVL. The key issues identified in the North facility concerned recent water leaks in the aseptic core 
and preparation area, HEPA filter failures, media growth, environmental monitoring and facility 
maintenance. The inspectors also identified the presence of particulate contamination potentially 
affecting both the North and South facilities. The investigation performed by BVL did not provide 
reassurance concerning the root cause and the nature of the particles. Taken together, all the 
deficiencies observed in the oversight of manufacturing and quality operations raise questions on the 
overall quality assurance system at BVL, and this is considered to have a potential detrimental impact 
on the quality and safety of products manufactured and released by the site. 
On 10 November 2011, Ben Venue Laboratories announced the cessation of production pending further 
investigation and resolution of issues related to equipment re-qualification and maintenance identified 
by the inspection team. This cessation included manufacturing operations in the three operational parts 
of the facility, North Complex, South Complex and Phase IV, that are listed as manufacturing sites for 
14 centrally approved products: Angiox, Busilvex, Caelyx, Cayston, Ceplene, Ecalta, Luminity, Mepact, 
Soliris, Torisel, Velcade, Vibativ, Vidaza, and Vistide. 
In view of the above the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004. The European Commission requested the CHMP on 17 November 2011 to assess the 
above concerns and to give its opinion on measures necessary to ensure the safe and effective use of 
those products, and on whether the marketing authorisations for these products should be maintained, 
varied, suspended or withdrawn. Furthermore the Commission asked the CHMP to consider if there was 
a need to take provisional measures, notably a withdrawal of medicinal products (or certain batches 
thereof) from the market. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Torisel was granted a marketing authorisation in the EU on 19 November 2007. 
Torisel is indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
who have at least three of six prognostic risk factors. Torisel is also indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with relapsed and/or refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). For patients with renal cell 
carcinoma, treatment with Torisel may be the first and best option depending on the individual patient. 
For patients with relapsed and/or refractory mantle cell lymphoma there is no licensed alternative 
treatment option.  
The product has two components: Torisel concentrate (1 vial of 1.2 ml), and diluent (1 vial of 2.2 ml).  
3 
 
 
Torisel has 2 manufacturing sites authorised for the production of the diluent, one of which is the BVL 
South Complex. The BVL South Complex was found by the supervisory authorities to have GMP 
deficiencies leading to a potential risk of particulate contamination in the products. Deficiencies 
observed in the oversight of manufacturing and quality operations at BVL raise questions on the overall 
quality assurance system, which can potentially have a detrimental impact on the quality and safety of 
products manufactured and released by the site.  
The Torisel concentrate is manufactured at a different location and is therefore not considered to be at 
risk of contamination. The last production of Torisel diluent at the BVL site occurred in August 2010. 
Torisel diluent from the alternative manufacturing site will become available since February 2012. 
The instructions for use of Torisel already foresee that the product should be visually inspected for 
particulate matter prior to administration, and filtration at time of administration is recommended. For 
this reason, the CHMP recommended on 5 December 2011 that a DHPC should be sent to reinforce to 
healthcare professionals the need for visual inspection of the product prior to administration. 
On 13 January 2012, the supervisory authority issued a revised GMP compliance certificate for BVL (UK 
GMP 6105 Insp GMP/IMP 6105/16949-0018) affecting the North, South and Phase IV facilities. 
According to this certificate, the BVL site is not meeting the GMP requirements to allow the 
manufacture of Torisel diluent. 
On the basis of the above and taking into account that Torisel diluent has an alternative manufacturing 
site authorised and able to supply the EU market:  
- The CHMP confirms that the provisional measures adopted in December 2011 were adequate and 
necessary to address the concerns raised in respect of batches of Torisel manufactured in a facility with 
GMP deficiencies and hence protect public health, 
- The CHMP recommends the maintenance of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
(i) The submission by the MAH of a variation application to delete the BVL site from the list of 
authorized manufacturers within the marketing authorization dossier; 
(ii) No Torisel batches manufactured at the BVL site can be released to the EU market by the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
3.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Having  considered  the  overall  submitted  data  provided  by  the  MAH  in  writing,  as  well  as  the 
documentation provided by the inspectors,  
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
The Ben Venue Laboratories site is not in compliance with EU GMP for the manufacture of Torisel, 
The provisional measures adopted in December 2011 were adequate and necessary to address the 
concerns raised by batches manufactured in a facility with GMP deficiencies. 
There is an authorised alternative manufacturing site within the Torisel marketing authorisation 
dossier.  
the CHMP recommends the maintenance of the marketing authorisation for Torisel subject to the 
conditions laid down in Annex II of the opinion.  
4 
 
 
 
