EMA/84670/2012 
EMEA/H/C/000723 
EPAR summary for the public 
Toviaz 
fesoterodine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Toviaz. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Toviaz. 
What is Toviaz? 
Toviaz is a medicine containing the active substance fesoterodine. It is available as prolonged-release 
4 mg tablets and 8 mg tablets. Prolonged-release means that fesoterodine is released slowly from the 
tablet over a few hours. 
What is Toviaz used for? 
Toviaz is used in adults with overactive bladder syndrome to treat the symptoms of the disease: 
increased urinary frequency (need to urinate frequently), urgency (sudden urge to pass urine), and 
urgency incontinence (sudden lack of control over urination).  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
How is Toviaz used? 
The recommended starting dose of Toviaz is 4 mg once a day. The tablets are swallowed whole with a 
glass of water and must not be chewed. The patient normally gets the full effect of the treatment after 
two to eight weeks. Based upon individual response, the dose may be increased to 8 mg once daily. 
The dose of Toviaz must be adjusted, or the medicine not used at all, in patients with problems with 
their kidneys or liver, depending on whether they are also receiving ‘CYP3A4 inhibitors’, a group of 
medicines that may affect the way Toviaz is broken down in the body. See the summary of product 
characteristics (also part of the EPAR) for full details. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Toviaz work? 
The active substance in Toviaz, fesoterodine, is an anticholinergic medicine. It blocks some receptors 
in the body, the muscarinic receptors. In the bladder, this causes the muscles that push urine out of 
the bladder to relax, leading to an increase in the capacity of the bladder and to changes in the way 
the bladder muscles contract as the bladder fills up. This helps Toviaz to prevent unwanted urination. 
How has Toviaz been studied? 
The two main studies involved 1,964 patients with overactive bladder syndrome and compared Toviaz 
(4 or 8 mg a day) with placebo (a dummy treatment). One of the studies also compared Toviaz with 
tolterodine (another medicine used in overactive bladder syndrome). The main measure of 
effectiveness was the change in the number of times the patients needed to urinate in a 24-hour 
period after 12 weeks of treatment. 
What benefit has Toviaz shown during the studies? 
Toviaz was more effective than placebo and as effective as tolterodine in reducing the number of times 
the patients urinated in a 24-hour period. Before treatment, patients needed to urinate about 12 times 
in 24 hours. This number was reduced by 1.74 and 1.86 with the 4 mg dose of Toviaz and by 1.94 with 
the 8 mg dose. The reductions seen in patients taking placebo and tolterodine were 1.02 and 1.69, 
respectively. 
What is the risk associated with Toviaz? 
The most common side effect with Toviaz (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is dry mouth. For the full 
list of all side effects reported with Toviaz, see the package leaflet.  
Toviaz must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to fesoterodine, to any of the other 
ingredients, to peanut or to soya. Toviaz must also not be used in patients with:  
  urinary retention (difficulty in passing urine);  
 
gastric retention (when the stomach does not empty properly);  
  uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure even with treatment);  
  myasthenia gravis (a disease of the nerves causing muscle weakness); 
 
 
severe hepatic impairment (severe liver disease);  
severe ulcerative colitis (severe inflammation of the large intestine causing ulceration and 
bleeding);  
 
toxic megacolon (a very serious complication of colitis).  
Toviaz must not be given to patients with moderate liver or moderate to severe kidney disease at the 
same time as strong CYP3A4 inhibitor medicines. These include medicines such as ketoconazole and 
itraconazole (used to treat fungal infections), atazanavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir and saquinavir 
(medicines used in HIV-positive patients), clarithromycin and telithromycin (antibiotics), and 
nefazodone (used to treat depression).  
Toviaz  
EMA/84670/2012  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
Why has Toviaz been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Toviaz’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Toviaz 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Toviaz on 20 April 2007.  
The full EPAR for Toviaz can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Toviaz, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2012. 
Toviaz  
EMA/84670/2012  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
