22 April 2021                  
EMA/261031/2021  
Human Medicines Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Toviaz  
fesoterodine 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000723/P46/030.1 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the  CHMP with  all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Inf ormation on the development program......................................................... 3 
2.2. Inf ormation on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ........................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 4 
2.3.1. Introduction ........................................................................................... 4 
2.3.2. Clinical study: A0221047 ........................................................................... 4 
Description ..................................................................................................... 4 
Methods ........................................................................................................ 4 
Results .......................................................................................................... 9 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects .....................................................................17 
3. Rapporteur’s CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation................. 18 
  Fulf illed.......................................................................................................19 
  Not fulf illed: .................................................................................................19 
4. Additional clarification requested.......................................................... 20 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information .........................................20 
5. Updated overall conclusion ................................................................... 24 
 Fulf illed: ......................................................................................................25 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 2/25 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On  September  2020,  the  MAH  submitted  a  completed  paediatric  study  for  Toviaz  (Fesoterodine 
Fumarate), in accordance with  Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006,  as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The  MAH  stated  that  Study  A0221047,  “A  24-Week  Randomized,  Open-Label,  Study  to  Evaluate  the 
Safety  and  Efficacy  of  Fesoterodine  in  Subjects  Aged  6  to  17  Years  With  Symptoms  of  Detrusor 
Overactivity  Associated  With  a  Neurological  Condition  (Neurogenic  Detrusor  Overactivity)”  is  a  stand 
alone  study  and  not  a  measure  of  a  PIP.  There  is  not  a  Paediatric  Investigation  Plan  for  Toviaz. 
However, references are made to other studies conducted in the paediatric population. 
Toviaz  is  approved  in  Europe  (20  April  2007)  for  treatment  of  the  symptoms  (increased  urinary 
frequency  and/or  urgency  and/or  urgency  incontinence)  that  may  occur  with  overactive  bladder 
syndrome  in  adults.  The active  substance  of  Toviaz  is  fesoterodine, a  competitive  muscarinic  receptor 
antagonist.  After  oral  administration,  fesoterodine  is  rapidly  and  extensively  hydrolyzed  by  nonspecific 
esterases  to  its  active  metabolite,  5-hydroxymethyl  tolterodine,  which  is  responsible  for  the 
antimuscarinic  activity  of  fesoterodine.  Muscarinic  receptors  play  a  role  in  contractions  of  urinary 
bladder  smooth  muscle  and  stimulation  of  salivary  secretion.  Inhibition  of  these  receptors  in  the 
bladder  is presumed  to  be  the  mechanism  by  which  fesoterodine  produces its  effects  in  the  treatment 
of overactive bladder with symptoms of urinary urgency, frequency and/or urge incontinence in adults.   
CHMP´s  comment  
On  5  December  2008  the  applicant  submitted  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  an  application  for  a 
Paediatric  Investigation  Plan  including  deferral  and  waiver.  On  September  2009  the  MAH  voluntarily 
withdraw  the PIP after being informed of the trend towards a negative opinion. 
On  September  2011  the  applicant  submitted  the  results  of  a  phase  2  study  A0221066,  an  open-label, 
dose  escalating  study  of  the  pharmacokinetics,  safety  and  tolerability  of  fesoterodine  in  paediatric 
overactive  bladder  in  patients  aged  8  to  17  years,  in  accordance  with  Article  46  of  Regulation  (EC) 
No1901/2006,  as  amended.  Having  assessed  the  data  submitted  for  this  procedure,  it  was  considered 
that the information provided could be of help for prescribers but it was preferred to include the data in 
section  5.2  of  the  SPC  when  the  results   of  two   remaining  (planned)  studies  were  available.  Study 
A0221047  (in  children  6  to  17  years  with  NDO)  was  planned  to  start  2Q2012  with  CSR  availability 
1Q2014.  Finally,  this  study  has  been  long  delayed  (02  July  2012  FSFV;  Study  Completion  LSLV  13 
February 2020). 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Fesoterodine  fumarate  prolonged  release 4  mg  and  8  mg  film-coated  tablet (commercial  formulation) 
was  administered  to  patients  with  body  weight  >25  kg.  Fesoterdine  fumarate  2  mg  and  4  mg 
controlled release capsule (beads-in-capsule [BIC]) was administered to patients ≤25 kg. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 3/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The  MAH  submitted  a  final  report  for  the  phase  3  study  A0221047  that  was  conducted  to  evaluate  the 
safety  and  efficacy  of  fesoterodine  in  subjects  aged  6  to  17  years  with  symptoms  of  detrusor 
overactivity  associated  with  a  neurological  condition  referred  to  as  Neurogenic  Detrusor  Overactivity 
(NDO).  The  study  included  two  cohorts  of  children  based  on  body  weight.  124  patients   with  body 
weight  >25  kg  were  randomized to  two  doses  of  fesoterodina  or  control  (oxybutynin)  in  cohort  1.  In 
the cohort 2, 57 patients  ≤25 kg were randomized to two doses of fesoterodine. 
Results  from  previous  population  PK  analysis  and  clinical  trial  simulations  were  used  for  selection  of 
doses in this study. Data from these analyses and simulations supported administration of fesoterodine 
prolonged  release  4  and  8  mg  QD  doses  to  patients  with  body  weight  >25  kg,  and   fesoterodine  BIC 
formulation  2  and  4  mg  QD  to  patients  ≤ 25  kg,  to  achieve  steady-state  plasma  5-HMT  exposures 
similar to those in adults receiving 4 and 8 mg QD doses of fesoterodine. 
2.3.2.  Clinical study: A0221047 
A  24-Week  Randomized,  Open-Label,  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Safety  and  Efficacy  of  Fesoterodine  in 
Subjects  Aged  6  to  17  Years  With  Symptoms  of  Detrusor  Overactivity  Associated  With  a  Neurological 
Condition (Neurogenic Detrusor Overactivity). 
Description 
This  was  a  Phase  3,  randomized,  open-label  study  to  primarily  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of 
fesoterodine  in  paediatric  subjects  aged  6  to  17  years  with  symptoms  of  NDO.  The  s tudy  included  2 
weight  cohorts  (Cohort  1  included  subjects  >25  kg;  Cohort  2  included  subjects  ≤ 25  kg)  tha t  were 
analysed  separately.  At  baseline,  subjects  in  Cohort  1  were  randomized  in  a  1:1:1  ratio  to  one  of  3 
arms:  fesoterodine  4  mg  or  8  mg  or  oxybutynin  XL  at  a  starting  dose  in  accordance  with  approved 
paediatric  labelling  and  accepted  practice.  After  12  weeks,  subjects  in  the  oxybutynin  XL  arm  were 
allocated  by  the  investigator  to  fesoterodine  4  mg  or  8  mg.  At  baseline,  subjects  in  Cohort  2  were 
randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either fesoterodine 2 mg or 4 mg per day. Subjects remained on the same 
dose for the 12-week efficacy phase and the 12-week safety extension phase. 
Methods 
Objectives 
• 
Primary objective:  
o  To  determine  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  fesoterodine  4  mg  and  8  mg  following  once 
daily  treatment  for  12  weeks  in  pediatric  neurogenic  detrusor  overactivity  (NDO) 
subjects with weight  >25 kg. 
o  To  determine  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  fesoterodine  2  mg  and  4  mg  following  once 
daily treatment for 12  weeks in pediatric NDO subjects with  weight ≤25 kg. 
•  Secondary objectives: 
o  Evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  fesoterodine  versus  oxybutynin  in  pediatric  NDO 
subjects with weight  >25 kg. 
o  Evaluate the safety of fesoterodine 2 mg 4 mg and 8 mg once daily treatment for up to 
24 weeks in  pediatric NDO subjects. 
o  Determine 
5-
hydroxymethyltolterodine  (5-HMT)  following   fesoterodine  4  mg  and  8  mg  once  daily 
treatment in pediatric NDO subjects with  weight >25 kg. 
pharmacokinetics 
steady-state 
population 
the 
of 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 4/25 
 
 
 
o  Determine the steady-state population PK of 5-HMT following treatment with  2 doses of 
fesoterodine 2 mg and 4 mg once daily in pediatric NDO subjects with  weight  ≤25 kg. 
Study design 
For  Cohort  1,  this  was  a  randomized,  open-label,  active  comparator,  parallel  group  study  with  3 
treatment  arms.  The  study  consisted  of  2  parts:  a  12-week,  3-arm  phase  with  an  active  comparator 
(oxybutynin extended release [XL]), followed by a 12-week, 2-arm extension phase without  the active 
comparator. 
There  was  a  variable  screening  period  (minimum  3  days)  prior  to  the  baseline  visit,  the  duration  of 
which  was  principally  determined  by  the  prior  medication  subjects  may  have  needed  to  washout.  At 
baseline,  subjects  were  randomized  in  a  1:1:1  ratio  to  one  of  3  arms:  4  or  8  mg  per  day  of 
fesoterodine  or  oxybutynin  XL.  Subjects  were  stratified  at  randomization  into  2  groups  dependent  on 
their body weight. The  lower weight group  within Cohort 1 included all  those with a weight of 50 kg or 
less, and the  higher weight  group within  Cohort 1  included all those above 50 kg. 
A sufficient number of subjects were to be randomized into Cohort 1 to ensure a total of approximately 
99 subjects (approximately 33 evaluable subjects per arm) were evaluable for the primary efficacy and 
safety analyses at Week 12. 
For  Cohort  2  (weight  ≤ 25  kg),  the  study  consisted  of  2  parts:  a  12-week,  2-arm  Efficacy  Phase, 
followed by a 12-week, 2-arm Safety Extension Phase. 
There  was  a  variable  screening  period  (minimum  3  days)  prior  to  the  baseline  visit,  the  duration  of 
which  was  principally  determined  by  the  prior  medication  subjects  may  have  needed  to  washout.  At 
baseline,  subjects  were  randomized  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  one  of  2  fesoterodine  beads-in-capsule  (BIC) 
treatment arms: 2 or 4 mg per day. 
It  was  planned  that  a  sufficient  number  of  subjects  were  to  be randomized  into  Cohort  2  to  ensure a 
total  of  approximately  50  subjects  (approximately  25  evaluable  subjects  per  arm)  were evaluable  for 
the primary efficacy and safety analyses at Week 12. 
Study population 
The  study  population  consisted  of  subjects  aged  6  to  17  years,  with  stable  neurological  disease  and 
clinically  or  urodynamically  demonstrated  neurogenic  detrusor  overactivity  (NDO),  no  history  of 
indwelling  catheter  within  4  weeks  of  participation  in  the  study,  no  his tory  of  autonomic  dysreflexia, 
and  no  clinically  significant  urinary  tract  infection  (UTI)  at  screening.  Subjects  not  requiring 
intermittent  cathe terization  who  had  a  post-void  residual  (PVR)  volume  greater  than  20  mL  as 
determined by transabdominal ultrasound immediately after urination were excluded. 
Treatments 
Fesoterodine 
Subjects  randomized  to  fesoterodine  in  Cohort  1  received  either  4  or  8  mg  fesoterodine  prolonged 
release  tablets  once  daily  throughout  the  initial  12  weeks  of  the  active  comparator  phase  and 
continued  at  the  same  dose  during  the  12-week  safety  extension  phase.  All  those  assigned  to  the 
fesoterodine 8 mg arm started at  4 mg daily for 1 week, and then escalated to  8 mg daily. 
Subjects  in  Cohort  2  were  randomized  to  either  2  or  4  mg  fesoterodine  BIC  capsules  once  daily 
throughout  the  initial  12  weeks  of  the  efficacy  phase  and  continued  at  the  same  dose  during  the  12-
week safety extension phase. All those assigned to the fesoterodine 4 mg arm started at 2 mg daily for 
1 week and then escalated to 4 mg daily. 
If subjects could not tolerate the doses  they were randomized to, they were to  be withdrawn from the 
study, as a dose reduction was not  permitted on this study. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 5/25 
 
 
 
 
Oxybutynin 
Subjects  in  Cohort  1  randomized  to  oxybutynin  received  oxybutynin  XL  tablets  at  a  starting  dose  in 
accordance  with  approved  paediatric  labelling  and  accepted  practice  (e.g.,  oxybutynin XL  5  mg  once a 
day).  Dose  optimization  was  achieved  by  either  up  or  down  titration  in  5-mg  increments  on  an 
approximately  weekly  basis  to  achieve  a  balance  of  efficacy  and  tolerability.  All  subjects  should  have 
achieved a minimum total daily dose of oxybutynin XL 10 mg by the end of the dose adjustment period 
at  Week  4.  The  maximum  dose  used  in  this  s tudy  did  no t  exceed  the  recommended  dose  consistent 
with  approved  paediatric  labelling  and  accepted  practice.  Subjects  who  were  on  oxybutynin  prior  to 
study  entry  and  who  were  randomized  to  the  oxybutynin  XL  treatment  group  may  have,  at  the 
discretion of the  investigator, restarted at the equivalent pre-study total daily dose. 
Subjects who were unable to tolerate a minimum total dose of oxybutynin XL 10 mg once daily were to 
be  withdrawn.  Subjects  who  withdrew  from  the  oxybutynin  treatment  arm  for  reasons  of  toleration, 
and  who  fulfilled  all  continuation  criteria,  may  have  been  directly  allocated  by  the  investigator  to 
fesoterodine treatment at either 4 or 8 mg per day for the remaining 12-week safety extension phase. 
All  those  assigned  to  the  fesoterodine  8 mg  arm  started  at  4  mg  daily  for  1  week, and  then  escalated 
to 8 mg daily. 
Efficacy endpoints 
Primary  efficacy  endpoint:  Maximum  cystometric  bladder  capacity  defined  as  maximal  tolerable 
cystometric capacity or until  voiding/leaking begins or at 40 cm H2O. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints:  
•  Detrusor pressure at maximum bladder capacity 
• 
Presence of involuntary detrusor contraction (IDC) 
•  Bladder volume at first  IDC  
•  Bladder compliance 
•  Mean number of micturitions  per 24  hours 
•  Mean number of catheterizations per 24 hours 
•  Mean number of micturitions  and catheterizations combined per 24 hours 
•  Mean number of incontinence episodes per 24 hours 
•  Mean urgency episodes per 24 hours if applicable (only for sensate subjects) 
•  Mean volume voided per micturition 
•  Mean volume per catheterization 
•  Mean volume voided per micturition  or catheterization 
Safety  endpoints:  Adverse  events,  including  monitoring  of  targeted  AEs  (eg.  Anticholinergic,  CNS, 
visual).  Visual  acuity  and  accommodation,  cognitive  function,  vital  signs,  urinary  tract  infections, 
clinical laboratory evaluations, post-void residual volume, and physical examination. 
Pharmacokinetic  endpoints:  Model-based PK parameter estimates for absorption rate constant (Ka), 
apparent  oral  clearance  (CL/F),  and  volume  of  distribution  (Vd)  to  predict  the  area  under  the  curve 
(AUC), maximum concentration (Cmax), time to reach maximum concentration (Tmax), and half-life of 
5-HMT.  At  Visit  3  (Week  4),  blood  samples  were  collected  from  each  subject  assigned  to  receive 
fesoterodine for the analysis of 5-HMT. 
Statistical Methods 
Cohort 1 Primary Efficacy Analysis 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 6/25 
 
 
 
A sample size of 33 evaluable subjects per group is sufficient to give a power of at least 90% to detect 
a change from baseline of 70 mL in the primary endpoint, maximum cystometric capacity (MCC), when 
the standard deviation of the change from baseline is 120 mL. 
Change  from  baseline  to  Week  12  in  the  primary  endpoint  was  analyzed  using  an  analysis  of 
covariance  (ANCOVA)  including  terms  for  treatment  group,  baseline  (for  the  endpoint  being  analyzed) 
and  baseline  weight.  The  least  squares  (LS)  mean  change  from  baseline  for  each  treatment  group, 
standard  error  (SE),  95%  CIs  and  p-values  associated  with  the  LS  mean  changes  from  baseline  were 
presented. The following primary comparisons of interest were assessed: 
•  Change from baseline to Week 12 for fesoterodine 4  mg PR. 
•  Change from baseline to Week 12 for fesoterodine 8  mg PR. 
The  LS  means  and  95%  CIs  for  the  difference  between  each  fesoterodine  dose  group  and oxybutynin 
were also calculated. 
The  following  secondary  comparisons  were  assessed  using  95%  CIs  for  the  difference  between 
treatment means (for the change from baseline to Week 12): 
• 
• 
Fesoterodine 4  mg PR versus oxybutynin. 
Fesoterodine 8  mg PR versus oxybutynin. 
As  these  secondary  comparisons  were  based  on  an  estimation  approach,  no  formal  statistical 
hypothesis testing was performed. Conclusions were based on point estimates and CIs. 
The  primary analysis  was  based  on  the Cohort  1  Full Analysis  Set  (FAS).  The  FAS  included  all subjects 
who had been randomized and received at least 1 dose of study medication and had  provided baseline 
primary  endpoint  data.  The Per  Protocol  Analysis  Set  (PPAS)  included all  subjects  who  had  completed 
the  Active  Comparator/Efficacy  Phase  of  the  study,  and  who  had  no t  violated  any  of  the 
inclusion/exclusion criteria or deviated from the protocol in a way that could  have affected the efficacy 
outcome of the  study. 
Cohort 2 Primary Efficacy Analysis 
Change  from  baseline  to  Week  12  in  the  primary  endpoint  was  analyzed  using  an  ANCOVA  including  
terms  for  treatment  group and  baseline  (for  the  endpoint  being  analyzed).  The  LS  mean  change  from 
baseline  for  each  treatment  group,  standard  error  and  95% CIs  associated  with  the  LS  mean  changes 
from baseline were presented. 
The following primary comparisons of interest were assessed: 
•  Change from baseline to Week 12 for fesoterodine 2  mg BIC. 
•  Change from baseline to Week 12 for fesoterodine 4  mg BIC. 
As  these  comparisons  were  based  on  an  estimation  approach,  no  formal  statistical  hypothesis  testing 
was performed. Conclusions were based on point estimates and CIs. 
The  primary  analysis  was  based  on  the  Cohort  2  FAS.  For  the  FAS  analysis,  a  baseline  observation 
carried forward (BOCF) and a last observation carried forward (LOCF) algorithm  were used for missing 
data. 
Secondary Efficacy Analyses 
All  secondary  endpoints  were  analyzed  as  for  the  primary  analyses  as  defined  for  each  respective 
cohort using the appropriate FAS. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Plasma  concentrations  of  5-HMT  were  listed  and  summarized  for  subjects  in  the  pharmacokinetic  (PK) 
analysis set (for each cohort separately). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 7/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  population  PK  modeling  approach  was  used  to analyze  the  plasma  concentration-time  data  following 
fesoterodine  administration  for  the  estimation  of  population  PK  parameters  (apparent  oral  clearance 
[CL/F],  absorption  rate  constant  [Ka],  and  volume  of  distribution  [Vd])  of  5-HMT  in  pediatric  subjects 
in  this  study.  Different  structural  models  such  as  1-  or  2-compartment  PK  models  with  first-order 
absorption  were  considered  as  dictated  by  the  data.  In  all  models,  estimation  of  CL/F  and  apparent 
volume  of  distribution  (Vd/F)  were  of  primary  interest.  A  base  model  was  constructed  with  a  priori 
allometric weight scaling factor on CL/F and Vd/F, with clearance and volume parameters being scaled 
with  body  weight  raised  to  power  coefficients.  In  addition,  the  effect  of  drug  formulation  on  some 
parameters related to absorption (eg, absolute oral bioavailability [F], Ka) was also investigated. In full 
model  development,  predefined  covariate-parameter  relationships  (ie,  the  effects  of  gender  and 
CYP2D6  metabolizer  status,  as  predictors  of  CL/F  and  Vd/F)  were  identified  based  on  exploratory 
graphics.  These  covariates  are  selected  from  those  which  were  found  in  the  prior  adult  population 
analysis.  However,  age  was  not  included  in  this  full  model,  because  age  was  considered  to  be  a 
potential confounding factor in the relationship between body weight and PK parameters. 
CHMP´s  comment  
Study  A0221047  is  a  two  cohorts,  randomized  (within  cohorts),  open  label,  baseline  controlled  study 
with two dose fesoterodine arms (high and low) and a third oxybutynine arm for secondary comparison 
and  assay  sensitivity  in  the  case  of  the cohort  1  (patients  weighing  above  25  Kg).  Patients  in  cohort  1 
were  also  stratified  at  randomization  into  2  groups based  on  their  body  weight  (upper or  below  50  kg 
body  weigh).  This  was  not  the  case  in  cohort  2  which  is  logical  considering  that  25  kg  bodyweight 
corresponds approximately  to  6  years  old  boys  and  girls in  the  50th  percentile.  At  least  99  patients  in 
cohort  1  and  50  patients   in  cohort  2  were  needed  as  for  the  statistical  analysis.  No  formal  statistical 
hypothesis  testing  was  performed  for  the  cohort  2.  Results  from  cohort  2  will  be  considered  only 
supportive.  
Subjects  aged  6  to  17  years,  with  stable  neurological  disease  and  clinically  or  urodynamically 
demonstrated  neurogenic  detrusor  overactivity  were 
recruited.  Routine  clean 
intermittent 
catheterization (standard of care) was not  required. 
The  study  runs  in  two  periods,  an  initial  12  weeks  phase  of active  comparison  and a  second  12-week 
safety  extension  phase.  All  patients  randomized  to  high  dose  fesoterodine  started  at  low  dose  for  1 
week,  and  then  escalated.  In  the  cohort  1,  patients  allocated  to  oxybutynin  arm  should  have  achieved 
a minimum total daily dose of 10 mg at week  4. 
Although  it  was  not  the  preferred option (especially  attending  to  the  age  of  the  participants  as  for  the 
older  age  groups a  placebo-controlled  study  is  more  feasible),  the study  design,  except  for  the  cohort 
2,  is  in  line  with  the  EMA  Guideline  on  clinical  investigation  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of  
urinary  incontinence.  “A  single-arm,  baseline-controlled  study  with  well-defined  cystometric  endpoints 
may  be  acceptable,  particularly  in  infants/younger  children  with  NDO,  where  feasibility  of  recruiting 
patients  is  expected  to  be  challenging.  Such  a  study  should  be adequately  powered  to  demonstrate  a 
clinically meaningful change in the primary efficacy endpoint.” The duration of  12 weeks  for evaluation 
of  efficacy  is  considered  appropriate  but  for  the  safety  extension  phase,  a  period  of  12  additional 
weeks  of  follow-up  is  insufficient  to  demonstrate  long-term  safety  and  12  months  are  the  
recommended duration.  
Urodynamic  assessment  and  bladder  diary-based  outcome  measures  were  established.  The  NDO 
treatment  is  mainly  aimed  to  maintain  a  low  bladder  pressure  in  order  to  prevent  upper  urinary  tract 
damage.  In  this  sense,  urodynamic  variables  are  principal.  Incontinence  and  urgency  symptoms  are 
more  frequent  in  patients  with  idiopathic  OAB.  There aren´t  any  clinician  impression  questionnaires or 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 8/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patient-reported outcome measures / quality of life questionnaires. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Of  166  subjects  screened  for  Cohort  1,  124  were assigned  to  treatment:  42  to  fesoterodine  4  mg,  42 
to fesoterodine 8 mg, and 40 to oxybutynin.  For Cohort 1, 101 subjects  (81.5%) completed the study. 
Overall, a  higher  proportion  of  subjects  randomized  to  fesoterodine  4  mg  discontinued  from  the  study 
(12  subjects  [28.6%])  than  those  randomized  to  fesoterodine  8  mg  (6  subjects  [14.3%])  or 
oxybutynin  (5  of  40  subjects  [12.5%],  1  of  these  discontinued  from  the  study  while  receiving 
fesoterodine  4  mg  in  the  Safety  Extension  Phase),  with  the  most  common  reasons  being  AE  and 
withdrawal  by  parent/guardian.  In  the  Active  Comparator  Phase,  a  higher  proportion  of  subjects 
discontinued  from  the  study in  the  fesoterodine  4  mg  arm  (9  subjects  [21.4%])  than  the  fesoterodine 
8 mg arm (2  subjects [4.8%])  or the oxybutynin arm (4 subjects [10.0%]). 
Of the 81 subjects screened for Cohort 2, 57 were assigned to treatment: 28 to fesoterodine 2 mg BIC 
and  29  to  fesoterodine  4  mg  BIC.  For  Cohort  2,  48  subjects  (84.2%)  completed  the  study.  Overall,  a 
higher proportion of subjects discontinued from the study in the fesoterodine 2 mg BIC arm (8 subjects 
[28.6%])  than  in  the  fesoterodine  4  mg  BIC  arm  (1  subject  [3.4%]),  with  the  most  common  reasons 
being  AE  and  withdrawal  by  parent/guardian.  In  the  Efficacy  Phase,  a  higher  proportion  of  subjects 
discontinued the study in  the fesoterodine 2 mg BIC arm (7 subjects [25.0%]) than in the fesoterodine 
4 mg BIC arm. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 9/25 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline  data 
For Cohort 1, demographic and baseline characteristics (age, ethnicity, and weight) were generally well 
balanced  between  treatment  arms,  but  there  were  more  male  subjects  (n=26)  than  female  subjects 
(n=16)  in  the  fesoterodine  4  mg  arm and more  male  subjects  (n=23)  than  female  subjects  (n=17)  in 
the  oxybutynin  arm.  Additionally,  the  proportion  of  white  subjects  was  lower  in  the  oxybutynin  arm 
than  in  the fesoterodine arms, and  the  proportion  of  Asian  subjects  was  higher  in  the  oxybutynin  arm 
than  in  the fesoterodine  arms.  The  mean  weight  was  43.26  kg  and  42.02  kg  and  the  mean  age  was 
10.74  and 11.02  years for the  fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg arms, respectively. 
For  Cohort  2,  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  (age,  race,  ethnicity,  and  weight)  were 
generally  well  balanced  between  treatment  arms,  but  there  were  more  male  subjects  (n=16)  than 
female subjects (n=12) in the fesoterodine 2 mg BIC arm and more female subjects (n=19) than male 
subjects  (n=10)  in  the  fesoterodine  4  mg  BIC arm.  The  mean  weight  was  21.1  and  21.3  kg  and  the 
mean  age  was  7.5  and  7.9  years  for  the  fesoterodine  2  and  4  mg  BIC  arms,  respectively,  as  was 
expected given the weight constraint  of Cohort 2. 
Efficacy results 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
• 
For  cohort  1  treatment  with  fesoterodine  4  and  8  mg  and  oxybutynin  resulted  in  significant 
increases  from  baseline  to  Week  12  in  maximum  cystometric  bladder  capacity  (p=0.0001, 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 10/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
p<0.0001,  and  p<0.0001,  respectively).  The  95% Cis  for  the  mean  difference for  fesoterodine 
4 and 8 mg versus oxybutynin included zero. 
Per protocol analysis set cohort 1: 
Descriptive subgroup analysis of Change from Baseline in Maximum Cystometric Bladder Capacity (ml) at 
Week 12 - Full Analysis Set - Cohort 1 
Age Group 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 11/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
For  Cohort  2,  treatment with  fesoterodine  2  and  4  mg  BIC  resulted  in  increases  from  baseline 
to Week 12 in maximum cystometric bladder capacity, with 95% CIs for the mean change from 
baseline excluding zero. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 12/25 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP´s  comment  
Treatment  with  fesoterodine  4  mg,  8  mg  and  oxybutynin  in  the  cohort  1  resulted  in  significant 
increases  from  baseline  to  Week  12  in  the  primary  endpoint,  maximum  cystometric  bladder  capacity. 
The  magnitude  of  the  effect  was  similar  in  fesoterodine  8  mg  (83.36;  SD  14.71)  and  oxybutynin 
(87.17;  S D  15.33).  Improvement  was  lower  in  the  4  mg  fesoterodine  group  (58.12;  SD  14.78).  The  
effects  on  MCBC  should  be  interpreted  taking  into  account  the  size/volume  of  the  patient´s  bladder 
which  is  dependent  on  the  age.  Data  from  the  age  subgroup  analysis  (pre-specified  subgroups 
although not stratified at randomization) showed that  the differences between 4 mg and 8 mg dose are 
important for the lower age groups but not  so in the  group of adolescents.  
In  the  cohort  2  also  the  high  dose  (4  mg  BIC)  was  more  effective  than  the  low  dose  (2  mg)  in 
improving MCBC (40.17 mL vs 23.49) but  the mean effect was lower  than in all doses of the cohort 1, 
and  around  the  effect  shown  in  the subgroup  of  children  6  to  9 years  of  age  receiving  the  low  dose  (4 
mg) in cohort 1 (44.9  mL). 
Cohort  1  Secondary  efficacy  endpoints:  of  the  11  endpoints  that  were  formally  analysed,  7  endpoints 
demonstrated significant improvements from baseline following treatment with fesoterodine 4 and/or 8 
mg  (bladder  volume  at  first  involuntary  detrusor  contraction;  main  number  of  micturitions  per  24 
hours  [4  mg];  mean  number  of  micturitions  or  catheterizations combined  per  24  hours;  mean  number 
of incontinence episodes per 24 hours; mean number or urgency episodes per 24 hours [4 mg]; mean 
volume  per  catheterization  [8  mg];  mean  volume  voided  per  micturition  or  catheterization  [8  mg]), 
whereas  7  demonstrated  significant  improvements  from  baseline  following  treatment  with  oxybutynin 
(bladder  compliance;  bladder  volume  at  first  involuntary  detrusor  contraction;  main  number  of 
micturitions  per  24  hours;  mean  number  of  micturitions  or  catheterizations  combined  per  24  hours; 
mean  number  of  incontinence  episodes  per  24  hours;  mean  volume  per  catheterization;  mean  volume 
voided per micturition or catheterization). 
Cohort  2  Secondary  efficacy endpoints:  Of  the  11  endpoints  that  were  formally  analyzed,  5  endpoints 
demonstrated  improvements  from  baseline  following  treatment  with  fesoterodine  4  mg  BIC. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 13/25 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Improvements  from  baseline  were  not  demonstrated  for  any  of  the  secondary  efficacy  endpoints 
following treatment with  fesoterodine 2 mg BIC. 
CHMP´s  comment  
Some  significant  improvements  from  baseline  were  shown  with  fesoterodine.  Within  the  urodynamic 
measures only bladder volume at first involuntary detrusor contractions supports the primary endpoint. 
Also  significant  effect  in  number/volume  of  micturitions  or  catheterizations,  incontinence  or  urgency 
episodes  was  demonstrated although  these  measures  are  not  so  clearly  indicative of  improvements  in 
bladder  compliance/detrusor  contractility.  A  significant  improvement  on  bladder  wall  compliance  was 
demonstrated with oxybutynin. 
Pharmacokinetic results 
One  hundred  twenty-one  patients  from  this  study  were  included  in  the PK  analysis. A  total  of  163  and 
112  PK  observations  were  collected  from  fesoterodine  treated  patients  in  Cohort  1  and  Cohort  2, 
respectively. 
The  5-HMT   plasma  concentration  data  were  adequately  described  by  a  one-compartment  model  with 
first-order absorption and elimination, including a fixed allometric relationship of CL/F and Vd/F, as well 
as the effect of drug formulation on the extent of absorption (BIC versus tablet). 
The  mean (percent  relative  standard error  [%RSE])  for  fesoterodine  CL/F,  fesoterodine  Vd/F,  and  Ka 
were  71.6  (6.7)  L/hour,  68.1  (29.7)  L,  and  0.0897  (5.99)/hour,  respectively.  CL/F  for  subjects  with 
CYP2D6  poor  metabolizer  (PM)  status  was  estimated   to  be  0.546  times  lower  than  subjects   who  are 
CYP2D6  extensive  metabolizers  (EMs).  Absorption  was  described  with  a  lag  time  estimated  at  0.285 
hours, and the estimated relative bioavailability for BIC compared with  tablet was 64.8%. 
For Cohort 1, the observed plasma concentrations of 5-HMT in fesoterodine-treated subjects increased 
proportionally with  fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg doses given as the  tablet formulation. 
The  observed  mean  plasma  concentrations  of  5-HMT  appear  to  increment  in  a  similar  way  to  the 
increment between different doses. 
For Cohort 2, similar  to Cohort 1, the plasma concentrations of 5-HMT  in fesoterodine-treated subjects 
increased  proportionally  with  dose,  2  and  4  mg  doses  given  as  the  BIC  formulation.  For  Cohort  2, 
mean  plasma  concentrations  of  5-HMT  increased  in  relation  to  the  dose.  The  plasma  5-HMT  
concentrations  in  Cohort  2  following  fesoterodine  2  mg  BIC  once  daily  were  considerably  lower  and 
those following fesoterodine 4 mg BIC once daily were generally similar to the concentrations following 
fesoterodine 4 mg tablet once daily in  Cohort 1. 
CHMP´s  comment  
In  the  cohort  2,  administration  of  2  mg  fesoterodine  BIC  to  patients ≤25  kg  did  no t  achieve  steady-
state  plasma  5-HMT  exposure  similar  to  those  in  cohort  1  patients  receiving  4  mg  tablet.  Children  less 
than  25  kg  bodyweight  receiving  fesoterodine  4  mg  BIC  (64.8%  relative  bioavailability  for  BIC 
compared  with  tablet)  had  similar  5-HMT  concentrations  to  those  over  25  kg  receiving  fesoterodine  4 
mg tablet.  
Safety  results 
Cohort 1 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 14/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment  with  fesoterodine  4  and  8  mg  once  daily  for  12  weeks  and  up  to  24  weeks  was  well 
tolerated in pediatric NDO subjects aged 6 to 17 years with  weight >25  kg. 
There  were  no  treatment-related  SAEs  and  no  deaths.  There  were  few  treatment-related TEAEs  which 
were mostly of mild to moderate severity, and similar between both  fesoterodine arms. 
During the Active Comparator Phase, TEAEs were reported for 61.9% of subjects in the fesoterodine 4 
mg  arm,  47.6%  of  subjects   in  the  fesoterodine  8  mg  arm,  and  75.0%  of  subjects  in  the  oxybutynin 
arm.  Serious  AEs  (SAEs),  severe  TEAEs,  and  TEAEs  leading  to  discontinuation  from  the  study  or  from 
study drug were reported for fewer than  10% of subjects in any treatment arm. 
During  the  Active Comparator  Phase,  treatment-related  TEAEs  were reported for  28.6%  of  subjects  in 
the fesoterodine 4 mg arm, 23.8% of subjects in the fesoterodine 8 mg arm, and 37.5% of subjects in 
the oxybutynin arm. There were no treatment-related SAEs, and treatment-related severe TEAEs were 
reported for 1 subject (2.4%) in the fesoterodine 4 mg arm, no subjects in the fesoterodine 8 mg arm, 
and 2 subjects (5.0%) in the  oxybutynin arm. 
During  the  overall  study,  the  Infections  and  infestations  SOC  was  the  body  system  with  the  highest 
incidence  of  TEAEs.  The  most  frequently  observed  infections  were  upper  respiratory  tract  infections  of 
a  nature  commonly  seen  in  children  or  UTIs  to  which  children  with  NDO  are  susceptible.  The  majority 
of reported infections were considered not  to be related to study treatment by the investigators. 
During the Active Comparator Phase and the overall study, the most common treatment-related TEAEs 
were  gastrointestinal  disorders  of  Dry  mouth,  Constipation,  Diarrhea,  and  Abdominal  pain,  which  are 
consistent with  the known safety profile of antimuscarinic agents when administered to adults. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 15/25 
 
 
 
 
During  the  Active  Comparator  Phase,  the  incidence  of  Dry  mouth  was  significantly  higher  in  the 
oxybutynin  arm  than  in  the  fesoterodine  4  and  8  mg arms.  There  was  no  significant  difference  in  the 
incidence  of  any  other  reported  Tier-1  TEAE  between  the  oxybutynin  arm  and  the  fesoterodine  arms. 
Overall,  there  was  a  numerically  higher  incidence  of  antimuscarinic  effects  in  the  oxybutynin  arm 
compared with  the fesoterodine arms.  
During  the  overall  study,  there  were  no  TEAEs  of  seizures  or  somnolence  and  no  clinically  relevant 
changes  were  observed  in  cognitive  function  or  behavior  measured  by  Childhood  behavior  checklist 
(CBCL)    and    Grooved  pegboard  test  (GPT).  No  clinically  relevant  changes  were  observed  for  visual 
acuity  and  accommodation,  PVR  volume,  vital  signs,  physical  examinations,  weight,  or  clinical 
laboratory tests during the overall study. Increases from baseline in mean pulse rate were observed in 
the  fesoterodine  treatment  arms,  with  the  highest  mean  increase  being  10.41  bpm  at  Week  4  of  the 
Active  Comparator  Phase  in  the  fesoterodine  8  mg arm,  but  by  Week  24  this  had  trended  downwards 
to a mean increase of 6.54 bpm with a mean increase in the fesoterodine 4 mg arm of only  1.80 bpm. 
A mild TEAE of Heart rate increased was reported for 1 subject in the fesoterodine 8 mg arm. The TEAE 
was considered related to study treatment  by the  investigator, and the subject completed the study. 
Cohort 2 
Treatment  with  fesoterodine  2  and  4  mg  BIC  once  daily  for  12  weeks  and  up  to  24  weeks  was  well 
tolerated in pediatric NDO subjects with  weight ≤25 kg. 
There  were  no  treatment-related  SAEs  and  no  deaths.  There  were  few  treatment-related TEAEs  which 
were of mild to moderate severity, and similar across both fesoterodine arms. 
During  the  Efficacy  Phase  and  during  the  overall  study,  the  most  common  TEAEs  by  MedDRA  body 
system  were  in  the  Infections  and  infestations  SOC.  The  most  frequently  observed  infections  were 
upper respiratory tract infections of a nature commonly seen in children or UTIs to  which children  with 
NDO  are  susceptible.  All  reported  infections  were  considered  not  to  be  related  to  study  treatment  by 
the investigators. 
In  the  study  overall,  the  highest  incidence  of  treatment-related  TEAEs  were  gastrointestinal  disorders 
consistent with  the known safety profile of antimuscarinic agents when administered to adults. 
The  only  CNS  TEAEs  reported  were  headache  and  dizziness,  which  are  both  consistent  with  the  known 
safety  profile  in  adults.  There  were  no  TEAEs  of  seizures  or  somnolence,  and  no  clinically  relevant 
changes  were  observed  in  cognitive  function  or  behavior  measured  by Childhood  behavior  checklist  or  
Grooved pegboard test. 
No  clinically  relevant  changes  were  observed  in  visual  acuity  or  accommodation,  PVR  volume,  vital 
signs, physical examination, weight or clinical laboratory tests during the overall study. Increases from 
baseline  in  mean  pulse  rate  were  observed  in  both  fesoterodine  treatment  arms  at  Week  4  in  the 
Efficacy  Phase  with  the  highest  mean  increase  being  5.36  bpm  in  the  fesoterodine  4  mg BIC  arm,  but 
by  Week  24  there  was  no  increase  in  mean  pulse  rate  in  the  fesoterodine  2  mg  BIC  arm  and  only  a 
mean increase of 4.86 bpm in the fesoterodine 4 mg BIC arm. A mild TEAE of Heart rate increased was 
reported  for  1  subject  in  the  fesoterodine  4  mg  BIC  arm  (CSR  1047,  Table  16.2.7b).  The  TEAE  was 
considered  not  related  to  study  treatment  by  the  investigator,  and  the subject  completed  the  study. A 
mild  TEAE  of  Tachycardia  that  was  considered  related  to  study  treatment  by  the  investigator  was 
reported  for  1  subject  in  the  fesoterodine  2  mg  BIC  arm.  The  subject  discontinued  study  drug  and 
discontinued from the study due to the TEAE. 
Post-Void  Residual  Volume  was  only  assessed  for  subjects  not  performing  clean  intermittent 
catheterization,  resulting  in  small  sample  sizes.  Therefore,  it  is  not  possible  to  draw  any  meaningful 
conclusions about the changes from baseline in PVR volume in this study. 
CHMP´s  comment  
Overall,  the  safety  profile  was  consistent  with  the  known  safety  profile  of  fesoterodine  in  adults,  with 
higher  frequencies  in  infections  commonly  seen  in  children,  mainly  upper  respiratory  or  urinary  tract 
infections  to  which  NDO  children  are  susceptible.  There  were  increases  from  baseline  in  mean  pulse 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 16/25 
 
 
 
 
rate and tachycardia.  
No  TEAEs  of  seizures  or  somnolence  and  no  clinically  relevant  changes  were  observed  in  cognitive 
function  or  behaviour  measured  by  Childhood  behavior  checklist  and    Grooved  pegboard  test. 
However,  a  period  of  12  weeks  of  follow-up  is  not  considered  sufficient  to  define  the  long-term  safety 
profile in  the paediatric NDO  population. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
At  least  25%  of  clinical  problems  seen  in  paediatric  urology  are  the  result  of  neurogenic lesions  that 
affect  lower  urinary  tract  function.  The  principal  causes  may  be  classified  as acquired  or  congenital  in 
origin,  with  the  vast  majority  of  bladder  dysfunction  in  children  related  to  neural  tube  defects, most 
commonly  myelomeningocele.  NDO  is associated  with  involuntary  contractions  of  the  detrusor  muscle, 
defined  as  detrusor  overactivity,  which  occur  as  the  bladder  fills.  This  can  only  be  diagnosed  with 
cystometric evaluation.  
The  outcome  of  upper  urinary  tract  function  is  related  to detrusor  and  urethral  sphincter  function.  In 
dyssynergistic  dysfunction,  detrusor  and  urethral  sphincter  contraction  is  uncoordinated  (detrusor-
sphincter  dyssynergia)  resulting  in  high  intravesical  pressures,  vesicoureteric  reflux,  and  ultimately 
renal  damage. In  children  with  myelodysplasia,  the  risk  of  upper  urinary  tract  deterioration  and  renal 
damage  approaches  80%  when  no  intervention  is  instituted.  In  atonic  dysfunction,  although  a  lack  of 
detrusor  and  (usually)  sphincter  activity  results  in  a  low  pressure  bladder  generally  protecting  the 
urinary tract,  incontinence then becomes a problem.  
Treatment  of  NDO  in children  depends  on  presentation,  underlying  cause, and  the risk  of  deterioration 
in function of bo th upper and lower urinary tract. Clean intermittent catheterization is first line therapy 
for  bladder  emptying  in  children  with  areflexic  bladders and  high  postvoid  residual  urine  volume,  and 
may be combined with antim uscarinic therapy in specific populations, e.g., patients  with high pressure 
bladders. 
Study  1047  was  not  placebo-controlled  as  it  would  be  unethical  to  delay  treatment  to  patients  with 
NDO,  and  whilst  oxybutynin  was  included  as  an  active  comparator  in  this  study  (as  the  standard  of 
care at the time  the study was initiated), no formal comparisons between oxybutynin and fesoterodine 
were  planned  as  this  would  have  required a  prohibitively  large  study.  Therefore,  these  evaluations  are 
not  intended  to  be  utilized  to   claim  superiority  or  non-inferiority;  they  are  only  to  be  used  for  an 
assessment  of  comparability  between  fesoterodine  and  oxybutynin  utilizing  an  estimation  approach, 
and to show internal validity of Cohort 1 of the study as it  was conducted. 
As  the  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  assess  changes  from  baseline  within  each  of  the 
fesoterodine  treatment  arms,  a  comparator  for  the  lighter  weight  cohort  (Cohort  2)  was  not included. 
The  lighter  weight  cohort  was  included  in  the  study  to  obtain  efficacy  and  safety  data  on  the 
fesoterodine BIC  doses studied.  In  addition,  this  cohort  was  prospectively  planned  as  a smaller  cohort 
which  was  not  powered  to  analyze  changes  from  baseline  using formal  hypothesis  testing;  therefore, 
conclusions are based on mean changes and associated 95% CI. 
For  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  treatment  with  fesoterodine  for  Cohort  1  and  Cohort  2  resulted  in 
improvements (significant for Cohort 1; p≤0.05) from baseline to Week 12. 
Results of the analyses using the  Per Protocol Analysis Set or Cohort 1 and for Cohort 2 supported the 
results  of  the  analyses  using  the  FAS.  Results  of  subgroup  analyses  defined  by  age,  gender,  weight, 
region, race, ethnicity, and underlying cause of primary diagnosis for change from baseline to Week 12 
in the primary endpoint  were generally consistent with  the overall results. 
For  Cohort  1,  the  results  of  the  secondary  endpoint  analyses  generally  demonstrated  numerical 
improvements from baseline, supportive of the primary endpoint analysis. There were dose-dependent 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 17/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
improvements  for  the  fesoterodine  arms,  with  the  results  for  the  fesoterodine  8  mg  arm  generally 
comparable to oxybutynin. 
For Cohort 2, treatment with fesoterodine 4 mg BIC resulted in improvements (95% Cis excluded zero) 
from  baseline  to  Week  12  in  the  urodynamically  assessed  secondary  efficacy  endpoints,  detrusor 
pressure  at  maximum  bladder  capacity,  bladder  volume  at  first,  and  bladder  compliance,  and  the 
bladder  diary  assessed endpoints  of  mean  number  of  micturitions  per  24  hours  and  mean  number  of 
incontinence  episodes  per  24  hours,  for  pediatric  NDO  subjects  with  weight  ≤25  kg.  Improvements 
from  baseline  were  not  demonstrated  for  any  of  the  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  following  treatment 
with  fesoterodine 2 mg BIC. 
The majority of treatment-related TEAEs were mild or moderate in severity in Cohort 1;  there were no 
serious  treatment-related  TEAEs.  There  was  no  evidence  of  any  adverse  effects  on  vision,  post-void 
residual  volume,  cognition,  behavior  or  the  CNS,  other  than  the   well-known  effects  of  headache  and 
dizziness.  Small  increases  in  mean  sitting  heart  rate  were  observed.  Antimuscarinic  gastrointestinal 
system  effects  were  consistent  with  the  known  safety  profile  of  fesoterodine,  but  these  effects  were 
not more frequent or more severe than those observed with oxybutynin. 
Overall,  improvements  in  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  were  observed  with  a  statistically  significant 
effect  shown  with  fesoterodine  4  and  8  mg  from  baseline  to  week  12. Treatment  with  fesoterodine  2 
and  4  mg  BIC  resulted  in  improvements  from  baseline  to  Week  12  in  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint. 
Results of subgroup analyses were generally consistent  with the  overall results. 
Fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg tablets  were well tolerated with a safety profile consistent with that observed 
in  adults  and  no  new  safety  issues  were  identified.  The  benefit-risk  profile  is  positive  in  children  with 
NDO, with  the optimum benefit-risk overall being observed at the higher fesoterodine doses. 
3.  Rapporteur’s CHMP overall conclusion and 
recommendation 
This  was  a  Phase  3,  randomized,  open-label  study  to  primarily  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of 
fesoterodine  in  paediatric  subjects  aged  6  to  17  years  with  symptoms  of  NDO.  Subjects  with  stable 
neurological  disease  and  clinically  or  urodynamically  demonstrated  neurogenic  detrusor  overactivity 
were recruited. Routine clean intermittent  catheterization (standard of care) was not  required. 
The  study  included  2  weight  cohorts  (Cohort  1  with  subjects  >25  kg;  Cohort  2  with  subjects  ≤25  kg) 
that  were  analysed  separately.  At  baseline,  subjects  in  Cohort  1  were  randomized  in  a  1:1:1  ratio  to 
one  of  3  arms:  fesoterodine  4  mg;  fesoterodine 8  mg;  oxybutynin  XL  for  secondary  comparison  and 
assay sensitivity. After 12 weeks, subjects in the oxybutynin XL arm were allocated by the investigator 
to  fesoterodine  4  mg  or  8  mg.  At  baseline,  subjects  in  Cohort  2  were  randomized  in  a  1:1  ratio  to 
either  fesoterodine  2  mg  or  4  mg  per  day.  Subjects  remained  on  the  same  dose  for  the  12-week 
efficacy phase and the 12-week safety extension phase.  
Although  it  was  not  the  preferred  option  (especially attending  to  the  age  of  the  participants,  since  for 
the  older  age  groups  a  placebo-controlled  trial  could  have  been feasible),  the study  design, except  for 
the  cohort  2,  is  in  line  with  the  EMA  Guideline  on  clinical  investigation  of  medicinal  products  in  the 
treatment of urinary incontinence. 
The  duration  of  12  weeks  for  the  evaluation  of  efficacy  is  considered  appropriate  but  for  the  safety 
extension  phase, a  period  of  12  additional  weeks of  follow-up  is  insufficient  to  demonstrate  long-term 
safety  and  12  months  are  the  recommended  duration.  It  may  be  that  there  is  an  ongoing  follow-up 
study;  it  should   be  clarified  by  the  MAH.At  least  99  pa tients  in  cohort  1  and  50  patients  in  cohort  2 
were  needed as  for  the  statistical  analysis.  No  formal  statistical  hypothesis  testing  was  performed  for 
the cohort 2. Results from cohort 2 will  be considered only supportive.  
Urodynamic  assessment  and  bladder  diary-based  outcome  measures  were  established.  The  NDO 
treatment  is  mainly  aimed  to  maintain  a  low  bladder  pressure  in  order  to  prevent  upper  urinary  tract 
damage.  In  this  sense,  urodynamic  variables  are  principal.  There  were  no  clinician  impression 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 18/25 
 
 
 
questionnaires or patient-reported outcome measures / quality of life questionnaires for the secondary 
endpoints. 
Of  166  subjects  screened  for  Cohort  1,  124  were assigned  to  treatment:  42  to  fesoterodine  4  mg,  42 
to fesoterodine 8 mg, and 40 to oxybutynin.  For Cohort 1, 101 subjects  (81.5%) completed the study. 
Overall, a  higher  proportion  of  subjects  randomized  to  fesoterodine  4  mg  discontinued  from  the  study 
than  those  randomized  to  fesoterodine  8  mg  or  oxybutynin,  being  the  most  common reasons  AEs  and 
withdrawal by parent/guardian. This does not seem to  be expected.  
Overall,  improvements  in  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  were  observed  with  a  statistically  significant 
effect  shown  with  fesoterodine  4  and  8  mg  from  baseline  to  week  12.  Treatment  with  fesoterodine  2 
and 4 mg BIC resulted in improvements from baseline to Week 12 in  the primary efficacy endpoint.  
Treatment  with  fesoterodine  4  mg,  8  mg  and  oxybutynin  in  the  cohort  1  resulted  in  significant 
increases  from  baseline  to  Week  12  in  the  primary  endpoint  maximum  cystometric  bladder  capacity 
(MCBC).  The  magnitude  of  the  effect  was  similar  in  fesoterodine  8  mg  (83.36;  SD  14.71)  and 
oxybutynin  (87.17;  SD  15.33).  Improvement  was  lower  in  the  4  mg  fesoterodine  group  (58.12;  SD 
14.78). The effects on MCBC should be interpreted taking into account the size/volume of the patient´s 
bladder which is dependent on  the age. Data from the age subgroup analysis (pre-specified subgroups 
although not stratified at randomization) showed tha t the differences between 4 mg and 8 mg dose are 
important  for  the  lower  age  groups  but not  so  in  the  group  of  adolescents. he  MAH  should  discuss  the 
relevance  of  the  results  for  each  age-group  and  the  apparent  lack  of  dose-response  relationship  in  the 
adolescent´s subgroup. 
In  the  cohort  2  also  the  high  dose  (4  mg  BIC)  was  more  effective  in  improving  MCBC  (40.17  mL  vs 
23.49)  but  the  mean  effect  was  lower  than  in  all  doses  of  the  cohort  1,  and  aligned  with  the  effect 
shown in the subgroup of children 6 to 9 years of age receiving 4 mg in cohort 1 (44.9  mL). 
Regarding  the  secondary  endpoints,  some  significant  improvements  from  baseline  were  shown  with 
fesoterodine.  Within  the  urodynamic  measures  only  bladder  volume  at  first  involuntary  detrusor 
contractions supports the primary endpoint. Also significant effect in number/volume of micturitions  or 
catheterizations, incontinence or urgency episodes was demonstrated although these measures are not 
so  clearly  indicative  of  improvements  in  bladder  compliance/detrusor  contractility.  A  significant 
improvement on bladder wall  compliance was demonstrated with  oxybutynin. 
Administration of 2 mg fesoterodine BIC to patients ≤25 kg did not achieve steady-state plasma 5-HMT 
exposure  similar  to  those  in  adults  receiving  4  mg  tablet.  Children  less  than  25  kg  bodyweight 
receiving  fesoterodine  4  mg  BIC  (64.8%  relative  bioavailability  for  BIC  compared  with  tablet)  had 
similar 5-HMT  concentrations to  those over 25 kg receiving fesoterodine 4 mg tablet. 
Overall,  Fesoterodine  4  and  8  mg  tablets  were  well  tolerated  with  a  safety  profile  consistent  with  that 
observed  in  adults,  with  higher  frequencies  in  infections  commonly  seen  in  children,  mainly  upper 
respiratory or urinary tract infections to which NDO children are susceptible. There were increases from 
baseline  in  mean  pulse  rate  and  tachycardia.  No  TEAEs  of  seizures  or  somnolence  and  no  clinically 
relevant  changes  were  observed  in  cognitive  function  or  behaviour  measured  by  Childhood  behavior 
checklist  and  Grooved  pegboard  test  However,  a  period  of  12  weeks  of  follow-up  is  not  considered 
sufficient  to  define  the  long-term  safety  profile  in  the  paediatric  NDO  population.  It  may  be  that  there 
is an ongoing follow-up study; it should be clarified by the MAH. 
There  were  higher  proportions  of  patients  with  TEAEs  and  discontinuations  due  to  adverse  events  in 
the  4  mg  dose  group  compared  with  the  8  mg  group  during  the  active  comparator  phase  in  cohort  1, 
which is not  expected.   
  Fulfilled 
  Not fulfilled: 
Based on the data submitted,  the MAH should provide responses to the  questions mentioned below as 
part of this procedure (see section “Additional clarification requested”). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 19/25 
 
 
 
4.  Additional clarification requested 
Based on the data submitted,  the MAH should address the  following questions as part of this 
procedure: 
1.  There  were  higher  proportions  of  patients  with  TEAEs  and  discontinuations  due  to  adverse 
events  in  the  4  mg  dose  group  compared  with  the  8  mg   group  during  the  active  comparator 
phase in  cohort 1,  which is not expected. The MAH  should comment on that.   
2.  According to the  results of the study,  the MAH should elaborate on the dose recommendation 
by weight.  
3.  In  this  regard,  the  MAH  should  discuss  the  relevance  of  the  results,  overall  and  for  each age-
group,  as  well  as  the  apparent  lack  of  dose-response  relationship  in  the  adolescent´s 
subgroup.  
4.  A  period  of  12  weeks  of  follow-up  is  not  considered  sufficient  to  define  the  long-term  safety 
profile  in  the  paediatric  NDO  population.  The  MAH  should  clarify  whether  it  is  an  ongoing 
follow-up study. 
5.  A  proposal  for  the  modification  of  the  product  information  should  be  provided,  including 
relevant data from both the phase 2 and phase 3 study. The MAH is required to clarify whether 
the  totality  of  the  available  clinical  data  allow  extension  of   indication  to  the  paediatric 
population and detail their regulatory plans. 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information 
On 26 January 2021  the MAH  submitted the  responses to the  requested questions. 
Question 1 
There were higher proportions of patients with TEAEs and discontinuations due to adverse 
events  in the 4 mg dose group compared with the  8 mg group during the  active comparator 
phase in cohort 1, which is not expected.  The MAH  should comment on that.   
MAH  Response 
In the active comparator phase in Cohort 1, there were 26 of 42 (62%)  participants in the 4  mg 
fesoterodine group with  1 or more TEAEs compared to 20 of 42 (48%)  participants in the  8 mg 
fesoterodine group and 30 of 40 (75%) participants  in the oxybutynin group. The difference between 
the fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg groups is largely accounted for by the  higher number of subjects in the 4 
mg fesoterodine group experiencing an infection resulting  in a higher incidence of events included in 
the SOCs Infections and Infestations and Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders compared to the 8 
mg group. Most of these infections were upper respiratory tract infections or urinary tract infections to 
which paedatric subjects, especially those with  neurogenic detrusor overactivity and related 
neurological disorders, are susceptible. There is no biologically plausible mechanism by which 
fesoterodine 4 mg could cause a higher rate of infections than fesoterodine 8 mg, and these events are 
not treatment  related. Considering the relatively small sample size, the  higher proportion of TEAEs in 
the 4 mg group that  was largely due to a higher incidence of upper respiratory tract infections and 
urinary tract  infections, is most likely to be a chance phenomenon. 
The most frequent adverse reactions associated with fesoterodine and other members of the class are 
anti-muscarinic effects on the gastrointestinal  (GI) system. One would expect to see a dose-response 
effect with a higher incidence of these events in the  8 mg group compared to the  4 mg group, but this 
was not observed. However, the number of GI events is small, and the events were non-serious and 
mostly mild or moderate in severity. Therefore, the lack of apparent dose-response both overall and in 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 20/25 
 
 
 
the anti-muscarinic effects may be a stochastic effect related to  the relatively small sample size 
coupled with the  generally well-tolerated nature of fesoterodine. 
In the active comparator phase in cohort 1, there were 9 discontinuations  in the 4 mg group compared 
to 2 in the  8 mg group; only 2 of the 9 discontinuations  in the 4 mg group were due to adverse events 
(AEs). One of these 2 AEs was fatigue (Subject 10601005)  with restlessness and weight  increased, all 
of moderate severity in a 10-year-old boy from South Africa. He discontinued 4  mg fesoterodine on 
Day 98 due to the  event of fatigue, which was assessed as possibly related to study drug by the 
investigator. However, fesoterodine is not known to  be associated with  fatigue. The second AE was 
epiphysiolysis in the distal tibia  of a 9-year-old boy from Japan that  required a leg plaster cast and was 
not related to fesoterodine according to the  investigator. 
The other 7 discontinuations in the  4 mg group were not due to AEs (withdrawal by parent/guardian, 
other, protocol violation, and lost to  follow-up). The 4 subjects who withdrew due to protocol violation 
or “other” were related to protocol deviations, all involving invalid urodynamic assessments at 
baseline. 
One subject in  the 8 mg fesoterodine group and 3 subjects in the  oxybutynin group were withdrawn 
due to similar issues with  the urodynamic assessment at screening, described as failure to meet the 
randomisation criteria, other, or protocol violation. All such discontinuations  occurred at different sites 
and across different regions. It is important to  consider that this  was an open-label study, and 
participants may have been on anti-muscarinic treatment prior to enrolling in the study 
In summary, the higher proportion of patients  with  discontinuations in the 4  mg group compared to 
the 8 mg or oxybutynin group was partially due to  more patients in that  group having issues with 
urodynamic assessments at screening, and the  TEAEs leading to discontinuation  are not causally 
related to  fesoterodine. All of these discontinuations  were from different sites. The higher proportion of 
TEAEs in the 4 mg group was largely due to  a higher incidence of upper respiratory tract infections and 
urinary tract  infections to which children, particularly those with  NDO, are susceptible. Considering the 
relatively small sample size and generally well-tolerated nature of fesoterodine, this is most likely to  be 
a chance phenomenon. 
CHMP´s  comment  
The  higher  proportion  of  TEAEs  in  the  4  mg  group  was  due  to  infections  (upper  respiratory  /  urinary 
tract)  and  were  considered  not  treatment  related.  The  excess  of  discontinuations  in  the  4  mg  group 
were  mainly  due  to  protocol  violations  related  to  urodynamic  assessments  at  screening.  In  one  case 
the  discontinuation  was  due  to  an  event  assessed  as  possibly  related  to  study  drug  (fatigue)  not 
described before. This issue is not  further pursued. 
Conclusion: issue solved. 
Question 2 
According to the results of the  study, the MAH  should elaborate  on the  dose 
recommendation by weight. 
MAH  Response 
The MAH does not intend to  apply for an extension to the indication  to include the paediatric population 
in section 4.1 of the SmPC for the EU  and, as such, is not proposing a dose recommendation by weight 
for the Toviaz MA. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 21/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP´s  comment  
The  MAH  does  not  elaborate  on  dose  recommendation  by  weight.  Data  in  children  less  than  25  kg  
bodyweight are limited.  This issue is not further pursued.  
Conclusion: Issue solved. 
Question 3 
In this regard, the  MAH should discuss the relevance  of the results, overall and  for each age 
group, as well as the  apparent lack  of dose-response relationship in the adolescent´ s 
subgroup. 
MAH  Response 
Acknowledging the  small sample sizes and the lack of stratification by age group at randomisation, for 
each age group, there was a general increase in the mean changes from baseline as the  age groups 
get older. (This was also observed with the Baseline and Week 12  results). This was observed across 
all 3 treatment arms in Cohort 1, and is in line with what  would be expected given that  bladder 
capacity is expected to  increase as age/weight increases. The only exception to this in the  observed 
results is for the fesoterodine 8  mg tablet  group, where the change from baseline in MCC for the  oldest 
(adolescent) age group was slightly  less than  for the other age groups. 
This has contributed to an apparent lack of fesoterodine dose response in this age group when 
assessing the mean changes from baseline. However, in  this age group, it  is important to note the 
much lower variability in the fesoterodine 8 mg group (SD=82.44 mL),  compared with the  fesoterodine 
4 mg and the oxybutynin groups (SD=141.39  and 147.04 mL,  respectively), and this  is also apparent 
when examining the maximum changes from baseline (410,  193, and 384  mL for fesoterodine 4 mg, 
fesoterodine 8 mg, and oxybutynin, respectively). Therefore, in this  subgroup, the  results for the 
fesoterodine 8 mg group may be somewhat skewed downwards, or conversely, the other groups may 
be influenced by large maximum outliers (410 and 384 mL  for the fesoterodine 4 mg and the 
oxybutynin groups, respectively). For the median changes from baseline in the adolescent group, there 
is an apparent dose response for the fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg groups (74.0 and 113.0  mL, 
respectively). However, given the small sample sizes and the lack of stratification  by age group at 
randomisation, these subgroup analyses are only intended to assess general trends and not to make 
any definitive conclusions around dose response, and particularly because with  small sample sizes the 
results can be highly influenced by outliers (as observed). 
CHMP´s  comment  
The  contradictory  results  seen  in  the  adolescent  patients  receiving  8  mg,  in  which the  mean  change 
from baseline in MCC was lower than in the younger age subgroups, are explained in the small sample 
sizes  and  the  differences  in  variability  between  age  subgroups  (outliers  in  fesoterodine  4  mg  and 
oxybutinine  groups  that  contributed  to  a  higher variability  but also  to  a  higher  mean effect).  Since  the 
study  was  not  powered  for  showing  statis tical  differences  within  the  different  age  subgroups,  no 
conclusions can be done in this respect at  this stage.  
Conclusion: Issue solved. 
Question 4 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 22/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A period of 12 weeks  of follow-up is not considered sufficient to define the  long-term safety 
profile in the paediatric NDO  population. The MAH  should clarify whether it is an ongoing 
follow-up study.  
MAH  Response 
The Paediatric Study Programme for fesoterodine tablets has completed. The final report for Study 
A0221109,  ‘Long-Term Extension Study to Evaluate the Safety of Fesoterodine in Japanese Pediatric 
Subjects With Symptoms of Detrusor Overactivity Associated With  a Neurological Condition 
(Neurogenic Detrusor Overactivity) Who Have Completed 24 Weeks Treatment in Study A0221047,’ 
was submitted to  the EMA on 28 September 2020  in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006,  as amended. 
CHMP´s  comment  
Study  A0221109  is  a  long-term  extension  study  to  evaluate  safety  of  fesoterodine  in  paediatric 
subjects  aged  6  to  17 years  with  Neurogenic  Detrusor  Overactivity  (NDO)  who  completed  24  weeks  of 
treatment  in  Study  A0221047.  Only  12  Japanese  patients  were  included  in  the  study.  The  final report 
of the study was submitted to  the EMA and was assessed in  the Procedure no. EMA/H/C/0723/P46/03.   
The Company stated the following results: 
Efficacy results 
The  sample  size  of  this  study  was  very  limited,  however,  in  subjects  treated  with  fesoterodine  there 
was  a  numerical  increase  (improvement)  in  MCBC  at  Week  12,  consistent  with  the  Study  A0221047 
overall  result,  and  this  was  also  observed  at  Week  52  (Week  28  in  the  current  study).  Numerical 
improvements  from  baseline  were  also  observed  in  other  urodynamic  endpoints,  but  this  was  not 
consistently observed in the diary-based efficacy endpoints at  Week 52. 
Safety results 
Treatment  with  fesoterodine  once  daily  for  52  weeks  was  well  tolerated  in  Japanese  paediatric  NDO 
subjects. Eleven of 12 subjects completed the study  treatment for 52  weeks. One subject discontinued  
from study due to the withdrawal by parent/guardian. There were no treatment-related SAEs or deaths 
reported  in  the  study.  No  clinically  relevant  changes  were  observed  for  visual  acuity  and 
accommodation,  cognitive  function,  vital  signs  values  and  clinical  laboratory  tests.  Given  the  limited 
number of patients,  it is difficult  to interpret the results. 
Only  twelve  Japanese  patients  from  study  A0221047  were  included  in  the  long-term  study.  Data  on 
long-term use of fesoterodine are limited.  
Conclusion: Issue solved. 
Question 5 
A proposal for the modification of the product information should be provided, including 
relevant  data  from both the  phase 2 and phase  3 study. The MAH is required to clarify 
whether  the totality of the available  clinical data  allow extension  of indication to the 
paediatric population and  detail their regulatory plans. 
MAH  Response 
The MAH believes that  the outcome of its  paediatric programme provides enough data to apply for a 
paediatric indication.  However, under Article 8 of the  Paediatric Regulation, which applies to 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 23/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fesoterodine, an application for authorisation  of a new indication must  contain the results of studies 
performed in accordance with an agreed paediatric investigation  plan (or a waiver or a deferral). Since 
there is no paediatric investigation plan agreed with  the EMA for fesoterodine, the MAH  is consequently 
not able to apply for a paediatric indication  in the EU. 
The MAH proposes to update the  product information, via a Type II variation subsequent to the 
outcome of this  procedure (EMA/H/C/0723/P46/030)  for fesoterodine to include information on the 
outcome of the  paediatric study programme and to align with  QRD version 10.1.  Specifically, updates 
to sections 4 and 5 in the SmPC are under consideration as well as consequential changes to the 
package leaflet. 
CHMP´s  comment  
Three  studies  corresponding  to  the  paediatric  development  program  of  fesoterodine  in  patients  with 
NDO have been evaluated within three separate Article 46 procedures. In none of these procedures the 
company  has  provided  a  proposal  for  the  modification  of  the  product  information.  Now  the  MAH 
considers that the outcome of the paediatric programme provides enough data to apply for a paediatric 
indication but this  is not possible in the absence of an agreed paediatric investigational plan. However, 
a  type  II  variation procedure  to  update  the  product  information  with  data  from  the  paediatric  studies 
will be submitted  for assessment. This is acceptable. 
Conclusion: issue solved. 
5.  Updated overall conclusion 
This was a Phase 3, randomized, open-label study to  primarily evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
fesoterodine in paediatric subjects aged 6 to 17 years with  symptoms of NDO. Subjects with stable 
neurological disease and clinically or urodynamically demonstrated neurogenic detrusor overactivity 
were recruited. Routine clean intermittent  catheterization (standard of care) was not  required. 
The study included 2 weight cohorts (Cohort 1 with  subjects >25 kg; Cohort 2 with subjects ≤25 kg) 
that  were analysed separately. At baseline, subjects in Cohort 1 were randomized in  a 1:1:1  ratio to 
one of 3 arms: fesoterodine 4 mg; fesoterodine 8 mg; oxybutynin XL for secondary comparison and 
assay sensitivity. After 12  weeks, subjects in the oxybutynin XL arm were allocated by the  investigator 
to fesoterodine 4 mg or 8 mg. At baseline, subjects in Cohort 2 were randomized in a 1:1  ratio to 
either fesoterodine 2 mg or 4 mg per day. Subjects remained on the same dose for the 12-week 
efficacy phase and the 12-week safety extension phase. No formal statistical hypothesis testing  was 
performed for the cohort 2. 
The duration of 12 weeks for the  evaluation of efficacy is considered appropriate but for the safety 
extension phase, a period of 12 additional weeks of follow-up is insufficient to  demonstrate long-term 
safety and 12 months  are the recommended duration.  
Urodynamic assessment and bladder diary-based outcome measures were established. There were no 
clinician impression questionnaires or patient-reported outcome measures / quality of life 
questionnaires for the secondary endpoints. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 24/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, improvements in the primary efficacy endpoint (maximum cystometric bladder capacity –
MCBC-) were observed with  a statistically  significant effect shown with  fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg from 
baseline to week 12 
Data from the age subgroup analysis (pre-specified subgroups although not  stratified at 
randomization) showed that  the differences between 4 mg and 8 mg dose are important  for the lower 
age groups but  not so in the group of adolescents. This unexpected result is explained in small sample 
size and differences in variability between age subgroups In the cohort 2 also the high dose (4 mg BIC- 
beads-in-capsule-) was more effective in  improving MCBC but the  mean effect was lower than in  all 
doses of the cohort 1, and aligned with  the effect shown in  the subgroup of children 6 to 9 years of age 
receiving 4 mg in cohort 1.  
Regarding the secondary endpoints, some significant improvements from baseline were shown with 
fesoterodine. Within  the urodynamic measures only bladder volume at first  involuntary detrusor 
contractions supports the primary endpoint. Also significant effect in number/volume of micturitions or 
catheterizations, incontinence or urgency episodes was demonstrated although  these measures are not 
so clearly indicative of improvements in bladder compliance/detrusor contractility. A significant 
improvement on bladder wall  compliance was demonstrated with  oxybutynin. 
Administration of 2 mg fesoterodine BIC to patients ≤25 kg did not  achieve steady-state plasma 5-HMT 
exposure similar to those in adults  receiving 4 mg tablet. Children less than  25 kg bodyweight 
receiving fesoterodine 4 mg BIC (64.8%  relative bioavailability for BIC compared with  tablet) had 
similar 5-HMT  concentrations to  those over 25 kg receiving fesoterodine 4 mg tablet.   
Fesoterodine 4  and 8  mg tablets  were well tolerated with  a safety profile consistent with  that  observed 
in adults, with  higher frequencies in infections commonly seen in children, mainly upper respiratory or 
urinary tract  infections to which NDO children are susceptible. There were increases from baseline in 
mean pulse rate and tachycardia. No TEAEs of seizures or somnolence and no clinically relevant 
changes were observed in cognitive function  or behaviour However, a period of 12 weeks of follow-up 
is not considered sufficient to  define the long-term safety profile in the paediatric NDO population.  
Overall, data from this  study are considered positive but limited.  Uncertainties are mainly related to, 
posology and long-term safety.  The MAH  considers that the  outcome of the paediatric programme 
provides enough data to apply for a paediatric indication but  notes that  this is not possible from a 
regulatory point  of view since an agreed paediatric investigational plan is lacking. They will submit a 
type II variation application to update the product information with  data from the paediatric studies. 
This is supported. It is foreseen that, in case of positive outcome these changes would apply to 
sections 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC. 
 Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/PRAC/261031/2021  
Page 25/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
