6 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Toviaz 
International non-proprietary name: fesoterodine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000723/II/0063 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Status of this report and steps taken for the assessment 
Current 
Description 
Planned date  Actual Date  Need for 
step¹ 
discussion² 
Start of procedure 
16 Aug 2021 
16 Aug 2021 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
20 Sep 2021 
22 Sep 2021 
CHMP members comments 
04 Oct 2021 
04 Oct 2022 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
07 Oct 2021 
12 Oct 2022 
Report 
Start of written procedure 
12 Oct 2021 
12 Oct 2021 
Request for supplementary information 
14 Oct 2021 
14 Oct 2021 
Re-start of procedure 
03 Jan 2022 
03 Jan 2022 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
07 Feb 2022 
08 Feb 2022 
CHMP members comments 
21 Feb 2022 
21 Feb 2022 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
24 Feb 2022 
24 Feb 2022 
Report 
Start of written procedure 
01 Mar 2022 
01 Mar 2022 
Request for supplementary information 
03 Mar 2022 
03 Mar 2022 
Submission of MAH responses 
22 Apr 2022 
22 Apr 2022 
Re-start of procedure 
25 Apr 2022 
25 Apr 2022 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
30 May 2022 
30 May 2022 
CHMP members comments 
13 Jun 2022 
N/a 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
16 Jun 2022 
N/a 
Report 
Start of written procedure 
21 Jun 2022 
21 Jun 2022 
Request for supplementary 
23 Jun 2022 
23 Jun 2022 
information/Opinion 
Submission of MAH responses 
15 Aug 2022 
5 Aug 2022 
Re-start of procedure 
16 Aug 2022 
16 Aug 2022 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
12 Sep 2022 
12 Sep 2022 
CHMP members comments 
26 Sep 2022 
N/a 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
29 Sep 2022 
N/a 
Report 
Start of written procedure 
4 Oct 2022 
4 Oct 2022 
Opinion 
6 Oct 2022 
6 Oct 2022 
¹ Tick the box corresponding to the applicable step – do not delete any of the steps. If not applicable, add 
n/a instead of the date. 
² Criteria for CHMP plenary discussion: substantial disagreement between the Rapporteur and other 
CHMP members and/or at the request of the Rapporteur or the Chair 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedure resources 
Rapporteur:  
Concha Prieto Yerro 
Declarations 
The assessor confirms that reference to ongoing assessments or development plans for other products 
is not included in this assessment report, including in the Product Information, if any. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
2. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ..................... 5 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................... 6 
4. EPAR changes ......................................................................................... 7 
5. Introduction ............................................................................................ 9 
6. Clinical Efficacy aspects .......................................................................... 9 
6.1.1. Clinical study: A0221047 .................................................................................... 9 
Description ................................................................................................................ 9 
Methods .................................................................................................................... 9 
Results .................................................................................................................... 13 
6.1.2. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 21 
6.1.3. Additional clarification requested ....................................................................... 23 
6.1.4. MAH responses to Request for supplementary information .................................... 23 
6.1.5. Updated overall conclusion ............................................................................... 26 
7. Changes to the Product Information ..................................................... 27 
8. Request for supplementary information ................................................ 27 
8.1. Major objections ................................................................................................ 27 
8.2. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 27 
9. Assessment of the responses to the request for supplementary information
 ................................................................................................................. 28 
9.1. Major objections ................................................................................................ 28 
9.2. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 28 
10. 2nd Request for supplementary information ........................................ 28 
10.1. Other concerns ................................................................................................ 28 
11. Assessment of the responses to the 2nd request for supplementary 
information ............................................................................................... 28 
12. 3rd Request for supplementary information ......................................... 29 
13. Assessment of the responses to the 3rd request for supplementary 
information ............................................................................................... 29 
14. Attachments ........................................................................................ 30 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Pfizer Europe MA EEIG submitted to 
the European Medicines Agency on 30 July 2021 an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.3.b  
C.I.3.b - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL intended 
Type II 
I, II and IIIB 
to implement the outcome of a procedure concerning 
PSUR or PASS or the outcome of the assessment done 
under A 45/46 - Change(s) with new additional data 
submitted by the MAH 
C.I.3 
Update of sections 4.2, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC with the results from study A0221047, to evaluate the 
safety and efficacy of fesoterodine in subjects aged 6 to 17 years with neurogenic detrusor overactivity. 
The change was suggested in the outcome of the EMEA/H/C/000723/P46/030.1. 
The Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to update the list 
of local representatives in the Package Leaflet and to bring the PI in line with the latest QRD template 
version 10.1. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II and 
Package Leaflet. 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
This type II variation application is submitted following the request from the CHMP to update the product 
information including relevant data (from phase 2 and phase 3 completed studies) after the evaluation of 
the Study A0221047, “A 24-Week Randomized, Open-Label, Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of 
Fesoterodine in Subjects Aged 6 to 17 Years With Symptoms of Detrusor Overactivity Associated With a 
Neurological Condition (Neurogenic Detrusor Overactivity)”  within the procedure EMA/H/C/0723/P46/030 
in accordance with article 46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended.  
The applicant proposes updates to Sections 4.2, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC and claims that these changes 
do not affect the benefit-risk profile of fesoterodine, which remains favourable when used in accordance 
with the updated product information.  
• 
The proposed changes are supported by the results of the study A0221047. Data from this study 
was submitted previously and preliminarily evaluated in the procedure EMEA/H/C/000723/P46 
with the conclusion that “Overall, data from this study are considered positive but limited. 
Uncertainties are mainly related to posology and long-term safety”.   
•  No reference is made to the results of the two other completed studies submitted within the 
procedures  EMEA/H/C/000723/P46 (study A0221066, an open-label, dose escalating study of the 
pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of fesoterodine in paediatric overactive bladder in 
patients aged 8 to 17 years) and procedure EMA/H/C/0723/P46/031 (A0221109, ‘Long-Term 
Extension Study to Evaluate the Safety of Fesoterodine in Japanese Pediatric Subjects With 
Symptoms of Detrusor Overactivity Associated With a Neurological Condition (Neurogenic 
Detrusor Overactivity) Who Have Completed 24 Weeks Treatment in Study A0221047’). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Having previously evaluated all three completed studies conducted in paediatric population with NDO, 
it is considered that the results have no impact on the benefit-risk balance of Toviaz that remains 
positive.  
The popPK model was previously assessed by the Rapporteur and considered appropriate for children 
with body weight > 25 Kg. It predicts correctly the concentration-time profile for this subgroup. For 
children weighing less than 25 Kg the model does not describe adequately the paediatric PK data and 
no predictions can be done based on this model.  
Additional data on PK in adults has been taken into the SmPC showing that there are considerable 
differences on the exposition between paediatric patients with NDO when compared to healthy adults. 
The MAH was requested to discuss whether this may have any consequence and if so, information 
valuable for the prescriptor should be reflected in the SmPC. The MAH justified the apparent 
difference in exposures between paediatric patients with NDO when compared to healthy adults on 
the basis of the results of one study is not considered representative of the totality of the adult data. 
The previously established 2-fold difference in 5-HMT exposures between CYP2D6 PMs and EMs in 
adults supported the dosing recommendations for Toviaz regardless of genotype. Overall, based on 
these considerations, the comparison of paediatric and adult exposures does not have a clinically 
relevant consequence or further valuable information for inclusion in the SmPC. This was considered 
acceptable. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.3.b  
C.I.3.b - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL 
Type II 
I, II and 
intended to implement the outcome of a procedure 
IIIB 
concerning PSUR or PASS or the outcome of the 
assessment done under A 45/46 - Change(s) with new 
additional data submitted by the MAH 
C.I.3 
Update of sections 4.2, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC with the results from study A0221047, to evaluate the 
safety and efficacy of fesoterodine in subjects aged 6 to 17 years with neurogenic detrusor overactivity as 
requested in the outcome of EMEA/H/C/000723/P46/030.1. 
The Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to update the list 
of local representatives in the Package Leaflet and to bring the PI in line with the latest QRD template 
version 10.1. 
is recommended for approval. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the variation, amendments to Annex(es) I, II and IIIB are 
recommended. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  EPAR changes 
The table in Module 8b of the EPAR will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Please refer to the Recommendations section above.  
Summary 
This variation concerned the submission of data from Study A0221047, a phase 3, randomized, open-
label study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of fesoterodine on paediatric patients aged 6 to 17 with 
symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with Neurogenic Detrusor Overactivity (NDO).  
Treatment with fesoterodine 4 mg or 8 mg tablets resulted in improvements from baseline in maximum 
cystometric bladder capacity (MCBC) at Week 12 for paediatric patients > 25 kg, with numerically higher 
changes from baseline for fesoterodine 8 mg tablets than for fesoterodine 4 mg tablets. Overall, the 
safety profile in paediatric patients with neurogenic detrusor overactivity was similar to that observed in 
adults with overactive bladder syndrome. 
These safety and efficacy data from Study A0221047 have been described in section 5.1 and 5.2. of the 
SmPC. No recommendation on posology can be made and uncertainties on the long-term safety remain. 
Overall, data from this study, although considered positive, remain limited. The safety and efficacy of 
Toviaz in children aged less than 6 years has not been established.  
For more information, please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex: Rapporteur’s assessment comments on the type II 
variation 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Introduction 
Results from the Study A0221047 were submitted previously and no new data are presented for this type 
II variation. Therefore, no additional analysis can be done. The following (section 6) is a copy-paste of the 
evaluation of the procedure EMEA/H/C/000723/P46:  
6.  Clinical Efficacy aspects 
6.1.1.  Clinical study: A0221047 
A 24-Week Randomized, Open-Label, Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Fesoterodine in 
Subjects Aged 6 to 17 Years With Symptoms of Detrusor Overactivity Associated With a Neurological 
Condition (Neurogenic Detrusor Overactivity). 
Description 
This was a Phase 3, randomized, open-label study to primarily evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
fesoterodine in paediatric subjects aged 6 to 17 years with symptoms of NDO. The study included 2 
weight cohorts (Cohort 1 included subjects >25 kg; Cohort 2 included subjects ≤25 kg) that were 
analysed separately. At baseline, subjects in Cohort 1 were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of 3 arms: 
fesoterodine 4 mg or 8 mg or oxybutynin XL at a starting dose in accordance with approved paediatric 
labelling and accepted practice. After 12 weeks, subjects in the oxybutynin XL arm were allocated by the 
investigator to fesoterodine 4 mg or 8 mg. At baseline, subjects in Cohort 2 were randomized in a 1:1 
ratio to either fesoterodine 2 mg or 4 mg per day. Subjects remained on the same dose for the 12-week 
efficacy phase and the 12-week safety extension phase. 
Methods 
Objectives 
• 
Primary objective:  
o  To determine the safety and efficacy of fesoterodine 4 mg and 8 mg following once daily 
treatment for 12 weeks in pediatric neurogenic detrusor overactivity (NDO) subjects with 
weight >25 kg. 
o  To determine the safety and efficacy of fesoterodine 2 mg and 4 mg following once daily 
treatment for 12 weeks in pediatric NDO subjects with weight ≤25 kg. 
•  Secondary objectives: 
o  Evaluate the safety and efficacy of fesoterodine versus oxybutynin in pediatric NDO 
subjects with weight >25 kg. 
o  Evaluate the safety of fesoterodine 2 mg 4 mg and 8 mg once daily treatment for up to 
24 weeks in pediatric NDO subjects. 
o  Determine the steady-state population pharmacokinetics of 5-hydroxymethyltolterodine 
(5-HMT) following fesoterodine 4 mg and 8 mg once daily treatment in pediatric NDO 
subjects with weight >25 kg. 
o  Determine the steady-state population PK of 5-HMT following treatment with 2 doses of 
fesoterodine 2 mg and 4 mg once daily in pediatric NDO subjects with weight ≤25 kg. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
 
 
Study design 
For Cohort 1 (weight ≤25 kg), this was a randomized, open-label, active comparator, parallel group study 
with 3 treatment arms. The study consisted of 2 parts: a 12-week, 3-arm phase with an active 
comparator (oxybutynin extended release [XL]), followed by a 12-week, 2-arm extension phase without 
the active comparator. 
There was a variable screening period (minimum 3 days) prior to the baseline visit, the duration of which 
was principally determined by the prior medication subjects may have needed to washout. At baseline, 
subjects were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of 3 arms: 4 or 8 mg per day of fesoterodine or 
oxybutynin XL. Subjects were stratified at randomization into 2 groups dependent on their body weight. 
The lower weight group within Cohort 1 included all those with a weight of 50 kg or less, and the higher 
weight group within Cohort 1 included all those above 50 kg. 
A sufficient number of subjects were to be randomized into Cohort 1 to ensure a total of approximately 
99 subjects (approximately 33 evaluable subjects per arm) were evaluable for the primary efficacy and 
safety analyses at Week 12. 
For Cohort 2 (weight ≤25 kg), the study consisted of 2 parts: a 12-week, 2-arm Efficacy Phase, followed 
by a 12-week, 2-arm Safety Extension Phase. 
There was a variable screening period (minimum 3 days) prior to the baseline visit, the duration of which 
was principally determined by the prior medication subjects may have needed to washout. At baseline, 
subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of 2 fesoterodine beads-in-capsule (BIC) treatment arms: 
2 or 4 mg per day. 
It was planned that a sufficient number of subjects were to be randomized into Cohort 2 to ensure a total 
of approximately 50 subjects (approximately 25 evaluable subjects per arm) were evaluable for the 
primary efficacy and safety analyses at Week 12. 
Study population 
The study population consisted of subjects aged 6 to 17 years, with stable neurological disease and 
clinically or urodynamically demonstrated neurogenic detrusor overactivity (NDO), no history of indwelling 
catheter within 4 weeks of participation in the study, no history of autonomic dysreflexia, and no clinically 
significant urinary tract infection (UTI) at screening. Subjects not requiring intermittent catheterization 
who had a post-void residual (PVR) volume greater than 20 mL as determined by transabdominal 
ultrasound immediately after urination were excluded. 
Treatments 
Fesoterodine 
Subjects randomized to fesoterodine in Cohort 1 received either 4 or 8 mg fesoterodine prolonged release 
tablets once daily throughout the initial 12 weeks of the active comparator phase and continued at the 
same dose during the 12-week safety extension phase. All those assigned to the fesoterodine 8 mg arm 
started at 4 mg daily for 1 week, and then escalated to 8 mg daily. 
Subjects in Cohort 2 were randomized to either 2 or 4 mg fesoterodine BIC capsules once daily 
throughout the initial 12 weeks of the efficacy phase and continued at the same dose during the 12-week 
safety extension phase. All those assigned to the fesoterodine 4 mg arm started at 2 mg daily for 1 week 
and then escalated to 4 mg daily. 
If subjects could not tolerate the doses they were randomized to, they were to be withdrawn from the 
study, as a dose reduction was not permitted on this study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 10/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oxybutynin 
Subjects in Cohort 1 randomized to oxybutynin received oxybutynin XL tablets at a starting dose in 
accordance with approved paediatric labelling and accepted practice (e.g., oxybutynin XL 5 mg once a 
day). Dose optimization was achieved by either up or down titration in 5-mg increments on an 
approximately weekly basis to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability. All subjects should have 
achieved a minimum total daily dose of oxybutynin XL 10 mg by the end of the dose adjustment period at 
Week 4. The maximum dose used in this study did not exceed the recommended dose consistent with 
approved paediatric labelling and accepted practice. Subjects who were on oxybutynin prior to study 
entry and who were randomized to the oxybutynin XL treatment group may have, at the discretion of the 
investigator, restarted at the equivalent pre-study total daily dose. 
Subjects who were unable to tolerate a minimum total dose of oxybutynin XL 10 mg once daily were to 
be withdrawn. Subjects who withdrew from the oxybutynin treatment arm for reasons of toleration, and 
who fulfilled all continuation criteria, may have been directly allocated by the investigator to fesoterodine 
treatment at either 4 or 8 mg per day for the remaining 12-week safety extension phase. All those 
assigned to the fesoterodine 8 mg arm started at 4 mg daily for 1 week, and then escalated to 8 mg 
daily. 
Efficacy endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint: Maximum cystometric bladder capacity defined as maximal tolerable 
cystometric capacity or until voiding/leaking begins or at 40 cm H2O. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints:  
•  Detrusor pressure at maximum bladder capacity 
• 
Presence of involuntary detrusor contraction (IDC) 
•  Bladder volume at first IDC  
•  Bladder compliance 
•  Mean number of micturitions per 24 hours 
•  Mean number of catheterizations per 24 hours 
•  Mean number of micturitions and catheterizations combined per 24 hours 
•  Mean number of incontinence episodes per 24 hours 
•  Mean urgency episodes per 24 hours if applicable (only for sensate subjects) 
•  Mean volume voided per micturition 
•  Mean volume per catheterization 
•  Mean volume voided per micturition or catheterization 
Safety endpoints: Adverse events, including monitoring of targeted AEs (eg. Anticholinergic, CNS, 
visual). Visual acuity and accommodation, cognitive function, vital signs, urinary tract infections, clinical 
laboratory evaluations, post-void residual volume, and physical examination. 
Pharmacokinetic endpoints: Model-based PK parameter estimates for absorption rate constant (Ka), 
apparent oral clearance (CL/F), and volume of distribution (Vd) to predict the area under the curve 
(AUC), maximum concentration (Cmax), time to reach maximum concentration (Tmax), and half-life of  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
5-HMT. At Visit 3 (Week 4), blood samples were collected from each subject assigned to receive 
fesoterodine for the analysis of 5-HMT. 
Statistical Methods 
Cohort 1 Primary Efficacy Analysis 
A sample size of 33 evaluable subjects per group is sufficient to give a power of at least 90% to detect a 
change from baseline of 70 mL in the primary endpoint, maximum cystometric capacity (MCC), when the 
standard deviation of the change from baseline is 120 mL. 
Change from baseline to Week 12 in the primary endpoint was analyzed using an analysis of covariance 
(ANCOVA) including terms for treatment group, baseline (for the endpoint being analyzed) and baseline 
weight. The least squares (LS) mean change from baseline for each treatment group, standard error 
(SE), 95% CIs and p-values associated with the LS mean changes from baseline were presented. The 
following primary comparisons of interest were assessed: 
•  Change from baseline to Week 12 for fesoterodine 4 mg PR. 
•  Change from baseline to Week 12 for fesoterodine 8 mg PR. 
The LS means and 95% CIs for the difference between each fesoterodine dose group and oxybutynin 
were also calculated. 
The following secondary comparisons were assessed using 95% CIs for the difference between treatment 
means (for the change from baseline to Week 12): 
• 
• 
Fesoterodine 4 mg PR versus oxybutynin. 
Fesoterodine 8 mg PR versus oxybutynin. 
As these secondary comparisons were based on an estimation approach, no formal statistical hypothesis 
testing was performed. Conclusions were based on point estimates and CIs. 
The primary analysis was based on the Cohort 1 Full Analysis Set (FAS). The FAS included all subjects 
who had been randomized and received at least 1 dose of study medication and had provided baseline 
primary endpoint data. The Per Protocol Analysis Set (PPAS) included all subjects who had completed the 
Active Comparator/Efficacy Phase of the study, and who had not violated any of the inclusion/exclusion 
criteria or deviated from the protocol in a way that could have affected the efficacy outcome of the study. 
Cohort 2 Primary Efficacy Analysis 
Change from baseline to Week 12 in the primary endpoint was analyzed using an ANCOVA including 
terms for treatment group and baseline (for the endpoint being analyzed). The LS mean change from 
baseline for each treatment group, standard error and 95% CIs associated with the LS mean changes 
from baseline were presented. 
The following primary comparisons of interest were assessed: 
•  Change from baseline to Week 12 for fesoterodine 2 mg BIC. 
•  Change from baseline to Week 12 for fesoterodine 4 mg BIC. 
As these comparisons were based on an estimation approach, no formal statistical hypothesis testing was 
performed. Conclusions were based on point estimates and CIs. 
The primary analysis was based on the Cohort 2 FAS. For the FAS analysis, a baseline observation carried 
forward (BOCF) and a last observation carried forward (LOCF) algorithm were used for missing data. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 12/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Efficacy Analyses 
All secondary endpoints were analyzed as for the primary analyses as defined for each respective cohort 
using the appropriate FAS. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Plasma concentrations of 5-HMT were listed and summarized for subjects in the pharmacokinetic (PK) 
analysis set (for each cohort separately). 
A population PK modeling approach was used to analyze the plasma concentration-time data following 
fesoterodine administration for the estimation of population PK parameters (apparent oral clearance 
[CL/F], absorption rate constant [Ka], and volume of distribution [Vd]) of 5-HMT in pediatric subjects in 
this study. Different structural models such as 1- or 2-compartment PK models with first-order absorption 
were considered as dictated by the data. In all models, estimation of CL/F and apparent volume of 
distribution (Vd/F) were of primary interest. A base model was constructed with a priori allometric weight 
scaling factor on CL/F and Vd/F, with clearance and volume parameters being scaled with body weight 
raised to power coefficients. In addition, the effect of drug formulation on some parameters related to 
absorption (eg, absolute oral bioavailability [F], Ka) was also investigated. In full model development, 
predefined covariate-parameter relationships (ie, the effects of gender and CYP2D6 metabolizer status, as 
predictors of CL/F and Vd/F) were identified based on exploratory graphics. These covariates are selected 
from those which were found in the prior adult population analysis. However, age was not included in this 
full model, because age was considered to be a potential confounding factor in the relationship between 
body weight and PK parameters. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Of 166 subjects screened for Cohort 1, 124 were assigned to treatment: 42 to fesoterodine 4 mg, 42 to 
fesoterodine 8 mg, and 40 to oxybutynin. For Cohort 1, 101 subjects (81.5%) completed the study. 
Overall, a higher proportion of subjects randomized to fesoterodine 4 mg discontinued from the study (12 
subjects [28.6%]) than those randomized to fesoterodine 8 mg (6 subjects [14.3%]) or oxybutynin (5 of 
40 subjects [12.5%], 1 of these discontinued from the study while receiving fesoterodine 4 mg in the 
Safety Extension Phase), with the most common reasons being AE and withdrawal by parent/guardian. In 
the Active Comparator Phase, a higher proportion of subjects discontinued from the study in the 
fesoterodine 4 mg arm (9 subjects [21.4%]) than the fesoterodine 8 mg arm (2 subjects [4.8%]) or the 
oxybutynin arm (4 subjects [10.0%]). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 13/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Disposition Flow Chart – Cohort 1 
Of the 81 subjects screened for Cohort 2, 57 were assigned to treatment: 28 to fesoterodine 2 mg BIC 
and 29 to fesoterodine 4 mg BIC. For Cohort 2, 48 subjects (84.2%) completed the study. Overall, a 
higher proportion of subjects discontinued from the study in the fesoterodine 2 mg BIC arm (8 subjects 
[28.6%]) than in the fesoterodine 4 mg BIC arm (1 subject [3.4%]), with the most common reasons 
being AE and withdrawal by parent/guardian. In the Efficacy Phase, a higher proportion of subjects 
discontinued the study in the fesoterodine 2 mg BIC arm (7 subjects [25.0%]) than in the fesoterodine 4 
mg BIC arm. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 14/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Disposition Flow Chart – Cohort 2 
Baseline data 
For Cohort 1, demographic and baseline characteristics (age, ethnicity, and weight) were generally well 
balanced between treatment arms, but there were more male subjects (n=26) than female subjects 
(n=16) in the fesoterodine 4 mg arm and more male subjects (n=23) than female subjects (n=17) in the 
oxybutynin arm. Additionally, the proportion of white subjects was lower in the oxybutynin arm than in 
the fesoterodine arms, and the proportion of Asian subjects was higher in the oxybutynin arm than in the 
fesoterodine arms. The mean weight was 43.26 kg and 42.02 kg and the mean age was 10.74 and 11.02 
years for the fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg arms, respectively. 
For Cohort 2, demographic and baseline characteristics (age, race, ethnicity, and weight) were generally 
well balanced between treatment arms, but there were more male subjects (n=16) than female subjects 
(n=12) in the fesoterodine 2 mg BIC arm and more female subjects (n=19) than male subjects (n=10) in 
the fesoterodine 4 mg BIC arm. The mean weight was 21.1 and 21.3 kg and the mean age was 7.5 and 
7.9 years for the fesoterodine 2 and 4 mg BIC arms, respectively, as was expected given the weight 
constraint of Cohort 2. 
Efficacy results 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
• 
For cohort 1 treatment with fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg and oxybutynin resulted in significant 
increases from baseline to Week 12 in maximum cystometric bladder capacity (p=0.0001, 
p<0.0001, and p<0.0001, respectively). The 95% Cis for the mean difference for fesoterodine 4 
and 8 mg versus oxybutynin included zero. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 15/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Statistical Analysis of Change from Baseline in Maximum Cystometric Bladder Capacity (ml) at 
Week 12 – Full Analysis Set – Cohort 1 
Per protocol analysis set cohort 1: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Descriptive subgroup analysis of Change from Baseline in Maximum Cystometric Bladder Capacity (ml) at 
Week 12 - Full Analysis Set - Cohort 1 
Age Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 17/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
For Cohort 2, treatment with fesoterodine 2 and 4 mg BIC resulted in increases from baseline to 
Week 12 in maximum cystometric bladder capacity, with 95% CIs for the mean change from 
baseline excluding zero. 
Table 2 Statistical Analysis of Change from Baseline in Maximum Cystometric Bladder Capacity (ml) at 
Week 12 – Full Analysis Set – Cohort 2 
Cohort 1 Secondary efficacy endpoints: of the 11 endpoints that were formally analysed, 7 endpoints 
demonstrated significant improvements from baseline following treatment with fesoterodine 4 and/or 8 
mg (bladder volume at first involuntary detrusor contraction; main number of micturitions per 24 hours 
[4 mg]; mean number of micturitions or catheterizations combined per 24 hours; mean number of 
incontinence episodes per 24 hours; mean number or urgency episodes per 24 hours [4 mg]; mean 
volume per catheterization [8 mg]; mean volume voided per micturition or catheterization [8 mg]), 
whereas 7 demonstrated significant improvements from baseline following treatment with oxybutynin 
(bladder compliance; bladder volume at first involuntary detrusor contraction; main number of 
micturitions per 24 hours; mean number of micturitions or catheterizations combined per 24 hours; mean 
number of incontinence episodes per 24 hours; mean volume per catheterization; mean volume voided 
per micturition or catheterization). 
Cohort 2 Secondary efficacy endpoints: Of the 11 endpoints that were formally analyzed, 5 endpoints 
demonstrated improvements from baseline following treatment with fesoterodine 4 mg BIC. 
Improvements from baseline were not demonstrated for any of the secondary efficacy endpoints following 
treatment with fesoterodine 2 mg BIC. 
Pharmacokinetic results 
One hundred twenty-one patients from this study were included in the PK analysis. A total of 163 and 112 
PK observations were collected from fesoterodine treated patients in Cohort 1 and Cohort 2, respectively. 
The 5-HMT plasma concentration data were adequately described by a one-compartment model with first-
order absorption and elimination, including a fixed allometric relationship of CL/F and Vd/F, as well as the 
effect of drug formulation on the extent of absorption (BIC versus tablet). 
The mean (percent relative standard error [%RSE]) for fesoterodine CL/F, fesoterodine Vd/F, and Ka 
were 71.6 (6.7) L/hour, 68.1 (29.7) L, and 0.0897 (5.99)/hour, respectively. CL/F for subjects with 
CYP2D6 poor metabolizer (PM) status was estimated to be 0.546 times lower than subjects who are 
CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers (EMs). Absorption was described with a lag time estimated at 0.285 
hours, and the estimated relative bioavailability for BIC compared with tablet was 64.8%. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
For Cohort 1, the observed plasma concentrations of 5-HMT in fesoterodine-treated subjects increased 
proportionally with fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg doses given as the tablet formulation. 
The observed mean plasma concentrations of 5-HMT appear to increment in a similar way to the 
increment between different doses. 
For Cohort 2, similar to Cohort 1, the plasma concentrations of 5-HMT in fesoterodine-treated subjects 
increased proportionally with dose, 2 and 4 mg doses given as the BIC formulation. For Cohort 2, mean 
plasma concentrations of 5-HMT increased in relation to the dose. The plasma 5-HMT concentrations in 
Cohort 2 following fesoterodine 2 mg BIC once daily were considerably lower and those following 
fesoterodine 4 mg BIC once daily were generally similar to the concentrations following fesoterodine 4 mg 
tablet once daily in Cohort 1. 
Safety results 
Cohort 1 
Treatment with fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg once daily for 12 weeks and up to 24 weeks was well tolerated in 
pediatric NDO subjects aged 6 to 17 years with weight >25 kg. 
There were no treatment-related SAEs and no deaths. There were few treatment-related TEAEs which 
were mostly of mild to moderate severity, and similar between both fesoterodine arms. 
During the Active Comparator Phase, TEAEs were reported for 61.9% of subjects in the fesoterodine 4 mg 
arm, 47.6% of subjects in the fesoterodine 8 mg arm, and 75.0% of subjects in the oxybutynin arm. 
Serious AEs (SAEs), severe TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to discontinuation from the study or from study 
drug were reported for fewer than 10% of subjects in any treatment arm. 
During the Active Comparator Phase, treatment-related TEAEs were reported for 28.6% of subjects in the 
fesoterodine 4 mg arm, 23.8% of subjects in the fesoterodine 8 mg arm, and 37.5% of subjects in the 
oxybutynin arm. There were no treatment-related SAEs, and treatment-related severe TEAEs were 
reported for 1 subject (2.4%) in the fesoterodine 4 mg arm, no subjects in the fesoterodine 8 mg arm, 
and 2 subjects (5.0%) in the oxybutynin arm. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 19/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 Treatment-Emergent AEs (All Causalities) – Safety Analysis Set (Active Comparator Phase) – 
Cohort 1 
During the overall study, the Infections and infestations SOC was the body system with the highest 
incidence of TEAEs. The most frequently observed infections were upper respiratory tract infections of a 
nature commonly seen in children or UTIs to which children with NDO are susceptible. The majority of 
reported infections were considered not to be related to study treatment by the investigators. 
During the Active Comparator Phase and the overall study, the most common treatment-related TEAEs 
were gastrointestinal disorders of Dry mouth, Constipation, Diarrhea, and Abdominal pain, which are 
consistent with the known safety profile of antimuscarinic agents when administered to adults. 
During the Active Comparator Phase, the incidence of Dry mouth was significantly higher in the 
oxybutynin arm than in the fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg arms. There was no significant difference in the 
incidence of any other reported Tier-1 TEAE between the oxybutynin arm and the fesoterodine arms. 
Overall, there was a numerically higher incidence of antimuscarinic effects in the oxybutynin arm 
compared with the fesoterodine arms.  
During the overall study, there were no TEAEs of seizures or somnolence and no clinically relevant 
changes were observed in cognitive function or behavior measured by Childhood behavior checklist 
(CBCL)  and  Grooved pegboard test (GPT). No clinically relevant changes were observed for visual acuity 
and accommodation, PVR volume, vital signs, physical examinations, weight, or clinical laboratory tests 
during the overall study. Increases from baseline in mean pulse rate were observed in the fesoterodine 
treatment arms, with the highest mean increase being 10.41 bpm at Week 4 of the Active Comparator 
Phase in the fesoterodine 8 mg arm, but by Week 24 this had trended downwards to a mean increase of 
6.54 bpm with a mean increase in the fesoterodine 4 mg arm of only 1.80 bpm. A mild TEAE of Heart rate 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 20/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased was reported for 1 subject in the fesoterodine 8 mg arm. The TEAE was considered related to 
study treatment by the investigator, and the subject completed the study. 
Cohort 2 
Treatment with fesoterodine 2 and 4 mg BIC once daily for 12 weeks and up to 24 weeks was well 
tolerated in pediatric NDO subjects with weight ≤25 kg. 
There were no treatment-related SAEs and no deaths. There were few treatment-related TEAEs which 
were of mild to moderate severity, and similar across both fesoterodine arms. 
During the Efficacy Phase and during the overall study, the most common TEAEs by MedDRA body system 
were in the Infections and infestations SOC. The most frequently observed infections were upper 
respiratory tract infections of a nature commonly seen in children or UTIs to which children with NDO are 
susceptible. All reported infections were considered not to be related to study treatment by the 
investigators. 
In the study overall, the highest incidence of treatment-related TEAEs were gastrointestinal disorders 
consistent with the known safety profile of antimuscarinic agents when administered to adults. 
The only CNS TEAEs reported were headache and dizziness, which are both consistent with the known 
safety profile in adults. There were no TEAEs of seizures or somnolence, and no clinically relevant 
changes were observed in cognitive function or behavior measured by Childhood behavior checklist or  
Grooved pegboard test. 
No clinically relevant changes were observed in visual acuity or accommodation, PVR volume, vital signs, 
physical examination, weight or clinical laboratory tests during the overall study. Increases from baseline 
in mean pulse rate were observed in both fesoterodine treatment arms at Week 4 in the Efficacy Phase 
with the highest mean increase being 5.36 bpm in the fesoterodine 4 mg BIC arm, but by Week 24 there 
was no increase in mean pulse rate in the fesoterodine 2 mg BIC arm and only a mean increase of 4.86 
bpm in the fesoterodine 4 mg BIC arm. A mild TEAE of Heart rate increased was reported for 1 subject in 
the fesoterodine 4 mg BIC arm (CSR 1047). The TEAE was considered not related to study treatment by 
the investigator, and the subject completed the study. A mild TEAE of Tachycardia that was considered 
related to study treatment by the investigator was reported for 1 subject in the fesoterodine 2 mg BIC 
arm. The subject discontinued study drug and discontinued from the study due to the TEAE. 
Post-Void Residual Volume was only assessed for subjects not performing clean intermittent 
catheterization, resulting in small sample sizes. Therefore, it is not possible to draw any meaningful 
conclusions about the changes from baseline in PVR volume in this study. 
6.1.2.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
At least 25% of clinical problems seen in paediatric urology are the result of neurogenic lesions that affect 
lower urinary tract function. The principal causes may be classified as acquired or congenital in origin, 
with the vast majority of bladder dysfunction in children related to neural tube defects, most commonly 
myelomeningocele. NDO is associated with involuntary contractions of the detrusor muscle, defined as 
detrusor overactivity, which occur as the bladder fills. This can only be diagnosed with cystometric 
evaluation.  
The outcome of upper urinary tract function is related to detrusor and urethral sphincter function. In 
dyssynergistic dysfunction, detrusor and urethral sphincter contraction is uncoordinated (detrusor-
sphincter dyssynergia) resulting in high intravesical pressures, vesicoureteric reflux, and ultimately renal 
damage. In children with myelodysplasia, the risk of upper urinary tract deterioration and renal damage 
approaches 80% when no intervention is instituted. In atonic dysfunction, although a lack of detrusor and 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 21/22 
 
 
 
 
(usually) sphincter activity results in a low pressure bladder generally protecting the urinary tract, 
incontinence then becomes a problem.  
Treatment of NDO in children depends on presentation, underlying cause, and the risk of deterioration in 
function of both upper and lower urinary tract. Clean intermittent catheterization is first line therapy for 
bladder emptying in children with areflexic bladders and high postvoid residual urine volume, and may be 
combined with antimuscarinic therapy in specific populations, e.g., patients with high pressure bladders. 
Study 1047 was not placebo-controlled as it would be unethical to delay treatment to patients with NDO, 
and whilst oxybutynin was included as an active comparator in this study (as the standard of care at the 
time the study was initiated), no formal comparisons between oxybutynin and fesoterodine were planned 
as this would have required a prohibitively large study. Therefore, these evaluations are not intended to 
be utilized to claim superiority or non-inferiority; they are only to be used for an assessment of 
comparability between fesoterodine and oxybutynin utilizing an estimation approach, and to show internal 
validity of Cohort 1 of the study as it was conducted. 
As the primary objective of the study was to assess changes from baseline within each of the fesoterodine 
treatment arms, a comparator for the lighter weight cohort (Cohort 2) was not included. The lighter 
weight cohort was included in the study to obtain efficacy and safety data on the fesoterodine BIC doses 
studied. In addition, this cohort was prospectively planned as a smaller cohort which was not powered to 
analyze changes from baseline using formal hypothesis testing; therefore, conclusions are based on mean 
changes and associated 95% CI. 
For the primary efficacy endpoint, treatment with fesoterodine for Cohort 1 and Cohort 2 resulted in 
improvements (significant for Cohort 1; p≤0.05) from baseline to Week 12. 
Results of the analyses using the Per Protocol Analysis Set or Cohort 1 and for Cohort 2 supported the 
results of the analyses using the FAS. Results of subgroup analyses defined by age, gender, weight, 
region, race, ethnicity, and underlying cause of primary diagnosis for change from baseline to Week 12 in 
the primary endpoint were generally consistent with the overall results. 
For Cohort 1, the results of the secondary endpoint analyses generally demonstrated numerical 
improvements from baseline, supportive of the primary endpoint analysis. There were dose-dependent 
improvements for the fesoterodine arms, with the results for the fesoterodine 8 mg arm generally 
comparable to oxybutynin. 
For Cohort 2, treatment with fesoterodine 4 mg BIC resulted in improvements (95% Cis excluded zero) 
from baseline to Week 12 in the urodynamically assessed secondary efficacy endpoints, detrusor pressure 
at maximum bladder capacity, bladder volume at first, and bladder compliance, and the bladder diary 
assessed endpoints of mean number of micturitions per 24 hours and mean number of incontinence 
episodes per 24 hours, for pediatric NDO subjects with weight ≤25 kg. Improvements from baseline were 
not demonstrated for any of the secondary efficacy endpoints following treatment with fesoterodine 2 mg 
BIC. 
The majority of treatment-related TEAEs were mild or moderate in severity in Cohort 1; there were no 
serious treatment-related TEAEs. There was no evidence of any adverse effects on vision, post-void 
residual volume, cognition, behavior or the CNS, other than the well-known effects of headache and 
dizziness. Small increases in mean sitting heart rate were observed. Antimuscarinic gastrointestinal 
system effects were consistent with the known safety profile of fesoterodine, but these effects were not 
more frequent or more severe than those observed with oxybutynin. 
Overall, improvements in the primary efficacy endpoint were observed with a statistically significant effect 
shown with fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg from baseline to week 12. Treatment with fesoterodine 2 and 4 mg 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 22/23 
 
 
 
 
BIC resulted in improvements from baseline to Week 12 in the primary efficacy endpoint. Results of 
subgroup analyses were generally consistent with the overall results. 
Fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg tablets were well tolerated with a safety profile consistent with that observed in 
adults and no new safety issues were identified. The benefit-risk profile is positive in children with NDO, 
with the optimum benefit-risk overall being observed at the higher fesoterodine doses. 
6.1.3.  Additional clarification requested 
Based on the data submitted, the MAH should address the following questions as part of this procedure: 
1.  There were higher proportions of patients with TEAEs and discontinuations due to adverse events 
in the 4 mg dose group compared with the 8 mg group during the active comparator phase in 
cohort 1, which is not expected. The MAH should comment on that.  
2.  According to the results of the study, the MAH should elaborate on the dose recommendation by 
weight.  
3.  In this regard, the MAH should discuss the relevance of the results, overall and for each age-
group, as well as the apparent lack of dose-response relationship in the adolescent´s subgroup.  
4.  A period of 12 weeks of follow-up is not considered sufficient to define the long-term safety 
profile in the paediatric NDO population. The MAH should clarify whether it is an ongoing follow-
up study. 
5.  A proposal for the modification of the product information should be provided, including relevant 
data from both the phase 2 and phase 3 study. The MAH is required to clarify whether the totality 
of the available clinical data allow extension of indication to the paediatric population and detail 
their regulatory plans. 
6.1.4.  MAH responses to Request for supplementary information 
On 26 January 2021 the MAH submitted the responses to the requested questions. 
Question 1 
There were higher proportions of patients with TEAEs and discontinuations due to adverse 
events in the 4 mg dose group compared with the 8 mg group during the active comparator 
phase in cohort 1, which is not expected. The MAH should comment on that.  
MAH Response 
In the active comparator phase in Cohort 1, there were 26 of 42 (62%) participants in the 4 mg 
fesoterodine group with 1 or more TEAEs compared to 20 of 42 (48%) participants in the 8 mg 
fesoterodine group and 30 of 40 (75%) participants in the oxybutynin group. The difference between the 
fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg groups is largely accounted for by the higher number of subjects in the 4 mg 
fesoterodine group experiencing an infection resulting in a higher incidence of events included in the 
SOCs Infections and Infestations and Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders compared to the 8 mg 
group. Most of these infections were upper respiratory tract infections or urinary tract infections to which 
paedatric subjects, especially those with neurogenic detrusor overactivity and related neurological 
disorders, are susceptible. There is no biologically plausible mechanism by which fesoterodine 4 mg could 
cause a higher rate of infections than fesoterodine 8 mg, and these events are not treatment related. 
Considering the relatively small sample size, the higher proportion of TEAEs in the 4 mg group that was 
largely due to a higher incidence of upper respiratory tract infections and urinary tract infections, is most 
likely to be a chance phenomenon. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 23/24 
 
 
 
 
The most frequent adverse reactions associated with fesoterodine and other members of the class are 
anti-muscarinic effects on the gastrointestinal (GI) system. One would expect to see a dose-response 
effect with a higher incidence of these events in the 8 mg group compared to the 4 mg group, but this 
was not observed. However, the number of GI events is small, and the events were non-serious and 
mostly mild or moderate in severity. Therefore, the lack of apparent dose-response both overall and in 
the anti-muscarinic effects may be a stochastic effect related to the relatively small sample size coupled 
with the generally well-tolerated nature of fesoterodine. 
In the active comparator phase in cohort 1, there were 9 discontinuations in the 4 mg group compared to 
2 in the 8 mg group; only 2 of the 9 discontinuations in the 4 mg group were due to adverse events 
(AEs). One of these 2 AEs was fatigue with restlessness and weight increased, all of moderate severity. 
He discontinued 4 mg fesoterodine on Day 98 due to the event of fatigue, which was assessed as possibly 
related to study drug by the investigator. However, fesoterodine is not known to be associated with 
fatigue. The second AE was epiphysiolysis in the distal tibia that required a leg plaster cast and was not 
related to fesoterodine according to the investigator. 
The other 7 discontinuations in the 4 mg group were not due to AEs (withdrawal by parent/guardian, 
other, protocol violation, and lost to follow-up). The 4 subjects who withdrew due to protocol violation or 
“other” were related to protocol deviations, all involving invalid urodynamic assessments at baseline. 
One subject in the 8 mg fesoterodine group and 3 subjects in the oxybutynin group were withdrawn due 
to similar issues with the urodynamic assessment at screening, described as failure to meet the 
randomisation criteria, other, or protocol violation. All such discontinuations occurred at different sites 
and across different regions. It is important to consider that this was an open-label study, and 
participants may have been on anti-muscarinic treatment prior to enrolling in the study 
In summary, the higher proportion of patients with discontinuations in the 4 mg group compared to the 8 
mg or oxybutynin group was partially due to more patients in that group having issues with urodynamic 
assessments at screening, and the TEAEs leading to discontinuation are not causally related to 
fesoterodine. All of these discontinuations were from different sites. The higher proportion of TEAEs in the 
4 mg group was largely due to a higher incidence of upper respiratory tract infections and urinary tract 
infections to which children, particularly those with NDO, are susceptible. Considering the relatively small 
sample size and generally well-tolerated nature of fesoterodine, this is most likely to be a chance 
phenomenon. 
Question 2 
According to the results of the study, the MAH should elaborate on the dose recommendation 
by weight. 
MAH Response 
The MAH does not intend to apply for an extension to the indication to include the paediatric population in 
section 4.1 of the SmPC for the EU and, as such, is not proposing a dose recommendation by weight for 
the Toviaz MA. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 24/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 3 
In this regard, the MAH should discuss the relevance of the results, overall and for each age 
group, as well as the apparent lack of dose-response relationship in the adolescent´s 
subgroup. 
MAH Response 
Acknowledging the small sample sizes and the lack of stratification by age group at randomisation, for 
each age group, there was a general increase in the mean changes from baseline as the age groups get 
older. (This was also observed with the Baseline and Week 12 results). This was observed across all 3 
treatment arms in Cohort 1, and is in line with what would be expected given that bladder capacity is 
expected to increase as age/weight increases. The only exception to this in the observed results is for the 
fesoterodine 8 mg tablet group, where the change from baseline in MCC for the oldest (adolescent) age 
group was slightly less than for the other age groups. 
This has contributed to an apparent lack of fesoterodine dose response in this age group when assessing 
the mean changes from baseline. However, in this age group, it is important to note the much lower 
variability in the fesoterodine 8 mg group (SD=82.44 mL), compared with the fesoterodine 4 mg and the 
oxybutynin groups (SD=141.39 and 147.04 mL, respectively), and this is also apparent when examining 
the maximum changes from baseline (410, 193, and 384 mL for fesoterodine 4 mg, fesoterodine 8 mg, 
and oxybutynin, respectively). Therefore, in this subgroup, the results for the fesoterodine 8 mg group 
may be somewhat skewed downwards, or conversely, the other groups may be influenced by large 
maximum outliers (410 and 384 mL for the fesoterodine 4 mg and the oxybutynin groups, respectively). 
For the median changes from baseline in the adolescent group, there is an apparent dose response for 
the fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg groups (74.0 and 113.0 mL, respectively). However, given the small sample 
sizes and the lack of stratification by age group at randomisation, these subgroup analyses are only 
intended to assess general trends and not to make any definitive conclusions around dose response, and 
particularly because with small sample sizes the results can be highly influenced by outliers (as 
observed). 
Question 4 
A period of 12 weeks of follow-up is not considered sufficient to define the long-term safety 
profile in the paediatric NDO population. The MAH should clarify whether it is an ongoing 
follow-up study.  
MAH Response 
The Paediatric Study Programme for fesoterodine tablets has completed. The final report for Study 
A0221109, ‘Long-Term Extension Study to Evaluate the Safety of Fesoterodine in Japanese Pediatric 
Subjects With Symptoms of Detrusor Overactivity Associated With a Neurological Condition (Neurogenic 
Detrusor Overactivity) Who Have Completed 24 Weeks Treatment in Study A0221047,’ was submitted to 
the EMA on 28 September 2020 in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as 
amended. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 25/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 5 
A proposal for the modification of the product information should be provided, including 
relevant data from both the phase 2 and phase 3 study. The MAH is required to clarify whether 
the totality of the available clinical data allow extension of indication to the paediatric 
population and detail their regulatory plans. 
MAH Response 
The MAH believes that the outcome of its paediatric programme provides enough data to apply for a 
paediatric indication. However, under Article 8 of the Paediatric Regulation, which applies to fesoterodine, 
an application for authorisation of a new indication must contain the results of studies performed in 
accordance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan (or a waiver or a deferral). Since there is no 
paediatric investigation plan agreed with the EMA for fesoterodine, the MAH is consequently not able to 
apply for a paediatric indication in the EU. 
The MAH proposes to update the product information, via a Type II variation subsequent to the outcome 
of this procedure (EMA/H/C/0723/P46/030) for fesoterodine to include information on the outcome of the 
paediatric study programme and to align with QRD version 10.1. Specifically, updates to sections 4 and 5 
in the SmPC are under consideration as well as consequential changes to the package leaflet. 
6.1.5.  Updated overall conclusion 
This was a Phase 3, randomized, open-label study to primarily evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
fesoterodine in paediatric subjects aged 6 to 17 years with symptoms of NDO. Subjects with stable 
neurological disease and clinically or urodynamically demonstrated neurogenic detrusor overactivity were 
recruited. Routine clean intermittent catheterization (standard of care) was not required. 
The study included 2 weight cohorts (Cohort 1 with subjects >25 kg; Cohort 2 with subjects ≤25 kg) that 
were analysed separately. At baseline, subjects in Cohort 1 were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of 3 
arms: fesoterodine 4 mg; fesoterodine 8 mg; oxybutynin XL for secondary comparison and assay 
sensitivity. After 12 weeks, subjects in the oxybutynin XL arm were allocated by the investigator to 
fesoterodine 4 mg or 8 mg. At baseline, subjects in Cohort 2 were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either 
fesoterodine 2 mg or 4 mg per day. Subjects remained on the same dose for the 12-week efficacy phase 
and the 12-week safety extension phase. No formal statistical hypothesis testing was performed for the 
cohort 2. 
The duration of 12 weeks for the evaluation of efficacy is considered appropriate but for the safety 
extension phase, a period of 12 additional weeks of follow-up is insufficient to demonstrate long-term 
safety and 12 months are the recommended duration.  
Urodynamic assessment and bladder diary-based outcome measures were established. There were no 
clinician impression questionnaires or patient-reported outcome measures / quality of life questionnaires 
for the secondary endpoints. 
Overall, improvements in the primary efficacy endpoint (maximum cystometric bladder capacity –MCBC-) 
were observed with a statistically significant effect shown with fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg from baseline to 
week 12 
Data from the age subgroup analysis (pre-specified subgroups although not stratified at randomization) 
showed that the differences between 4 mg and 8 mg dose are important for the lower age groups but not 
so in the group of adolescents. This unexpected result is justified by the MAH based on the small sample 
size and differences in variability between age subgroups In the cohort 2 also the high dose (4 mg BIC- 
beads-in-capsule-) was more effective in improving MCBC but the mean effect was lower than in all doses 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 26/27 
 
 
 
 
of the cohort 1, and aligned with the effect shown in the subgroup of children 6 to 9 years of age 
receiving 4 mg in cohort 1.  
Regarding the secondary endpoints, some significant improvements from baseline were shown with 
fesoterodine. Within the urodynamic measures only bladder volume at first involuntary detrusor 
contractions supports the primary endpoint. Also significant effect in number/volume of micturitions or 
catheterizations, incontinence or urgency episodes was demonstrated although these measures are not so 
clearly indicative of improvements in bladder compliance/detrusor contractility. A significant improvement 
on bladder wall compliance was demonstrated with oxybutynin. 
Administration of 2 mg fesoterodine BIC to patients ≤25 kg did not achieve steady-state plasma 5-HMT 
exposure similar to those in adults receiving 4 mg tablet. Children less than 25 kg bodyweight receiving 
fesoterodine 4 mg BIC (64.8% relative bioavailability for BIC compared with tablet) had similar 5-HMT 
concentrations to those over 25 kg receiving fesoterodine 4 mg tablet.  
Fesoterodine 4 and 8 mg tablets were well tolerated with a safety profile consistent with that observed in 
adults, with higher frequencies in infections commonly seen in children, mainly upper respiratory or 
urinary tract infections to which NDO children are susceptible. There were increases from baseline in 
mean pulse rate and tachycardia. No TEAEs of seizures or somnolence and no clinically relevant changes 
were observed in cognitive function or behaviour However, a period of 12 weeks of follow-up is not 
considered sufficient to define the long-term safety profile in the paediatric NDO population.  
Overall, data from this study are considered positive but limited. Uncertainties are mainly related to, 
posology and long-term safety.  The MAH considers that the outcome of the paediatric programme 
provides enough data to apply for a paediatric indication but notes that this is not possible from a 
regulatory point of view since an agreed paediatric investigational plan is lacking. They will submit a type 
II variation application to update the product information with data from the paediatric studies. This is 
supported. It is foreseen that, in case of positive outcome these changes would apply to sections 5.1 and 
5.2 of the SmPC. 
7.  Changes to the Product Information 
As a result of this variation, sections 4.2, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC have been updated. The Package 
Leaflet (PL) is updated accordingly. 
In addition, the list of local representatives in the PL is being revised. 
Please refer to Attachment 1 which includes all agreed changes to the Product Information. 
8.  Request for supplementary information 
8.1.  Major objections 
None. 
8.2.  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
1.  Some pharmacokinetic data reflected in the SmPC are missing from the clinical study report 
submitted. The complete information should be provided.  
2.  The product information should be revised. The extent of the information should be in line with 
that in adult patients, taking also into account that no paediatric indication is claimed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 27/28 
 
 
 
 
9.  Assessment of the responses to the request for 
supplementary information 
9.1.  Major objections 
None. 
9.2.  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
Question 1 and 2 
Assessment of the MAH’s response  
In response to RSI, on 22 December 2021 the MAH submitted an updated proposal for the Product 
Information.  
A Population Modelling Analysis Report was also submitted to support the data in section 5.2. Following 
the revision it is considered that the SmPC needs further amendments. The comments are in the product 
information document. 
Conclusion 
New amendments are needed on SmPC, please refer to PI.  
10.  2nd Request for supplementary information 
10.1.  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
1-  New amendments are needed on SmPC, please refer to PI.  
11.  Assessment of the responses to the 2nd request for 
supplementary information 
Question 1. New amendments are needed on SmPC, please refer to PI. 
MAH’s response  
The MAH sent the Product information. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response  
The Rapporteur has raised a comment in the SmPC section 5.2, please see the PI attached. 
It is observed that there are considerable differences on the exposition between paediatric patients with 
NDO when compared to healthy adults. Whether this may have any consequence should be discussed by 
the MAH. If this were the case and the information were considered valuable for the prescriptor, it should 
be reflected in the SmPC (section 5.2.) 
Conclusion 
Issue not solved, please see the SmPC attached. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 28/29 
 
 
 
 
12.  3rd Request for supplementary information 
1. 
It is observed that there are considerable differences on the exposition between paediatric 
patients with NDO when compared to healthy adults. Whether this may have any consequence 
should be discussed by the MAH. If this were the case and the information were considered 
valuable for the prescriptor, it should be reflected in the SmPC (section 5.2.) 
13.  Assessment of the responses to the 3rd request for 
supplementary information 
On July 2022, the MAH submitted the response to the question 1 in the 3rd RSI and an updated proposal 
for the Product Information.  
MAH response 
The pharmacokinetics of festerodine in humans was investigated in several clinical trials in extensive and 
in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Table 4 below summarizes the main pharmacokinetic parameters of 5-HMT, 
the active metabolite of fesoterodine, in subjects with CYP2D6 extensive metaboliser (EM) and poor 
metaboliser (PM) genotype. Mean Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite are 1.7 and 2-fold higher, 
respectively, in CYP2D6 PMs as compared to EMs. 
Table 4 Summary of mean ± standard deviation pharmacokinetic parameters of the active metabolite  
5-HMT after a single dose of 8 mg fesoterodine across Phase 1 studies in healthy adult subjects 
The steady-state exposures of 5-HMT in healthy adult subjects following fesoterodine 4 mg and 8 mg 
tablets once daily are summarised in Table 5 
Table 5 Summary of geometric mean [% CV] pharmacokinetic parameters for the active metabolite  
5-HMT after steady-state dosing of fesoterodine in healthy adult subjects, 18 years to 50 years of age 
A comprehensive review of 5-HMT exposures in adults with CYP2D6 EM and PM genotype status across 
various Phase 1 studies in comparison with the exposures in pediatric patients summarized in the 
proposed label (Table 6) suggests that pediatric exposures are within the range of adult exposures 
observed at the 8 mg dose level. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 29/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 Summary of geometric mean [% CV] pharmacokinetic parameters for the active metabolite  
5-HMT after steady-state dosing of fesoterodine in paediatric patients with NDO or OAB, weighing >25 kg 
In conclusion, the apparent difference in exposures between paediatric patients with NDO when compared 
to healthy adults on the basis of the results of one study (Table 5) is not considered representative of the 
totality of the adult data shown in Table 4. The previously established 2-fold difference in 5-HMT 
exposures between CYP2D6 PMs and EMs in adults supported the dosing recommendations for Toviaz 
regardless of genotype. Overall, based on these considerations, the comparison of paediatric and adult 
exposures does not have a clinically relevant consequence or further valuable information for inclusion in 
the SmPC (section 5.2.) for the prescriber. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response  
The applicant has provided the requested clarification, which is considered acceptable. Additional 
supporting data have been included in section 5.2. of the SmPC.  
Issue solved 
14.  Attachments 
1. 
Product Information (changes highlighted) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/897876/2022 
Page 30/30 
 
 
 
 
 
