19 December 2012 
EMA/819408/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Toviaz 
(fesoterodine) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000723/A46/0025 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
in accordance with article 46 of regulation (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pfizer Ltd. 
Treatment of the symptoms (increased urinary 
frequency and/or urgency and/or urgency 
incontinence) that may occur in patients with 
overactive bladder syndrome. 
Urinary Bladder, Overactive 
G04BD11 
Prolonged-release tablet, 4 mg, 8 mg 
Name:  Concepcion Prieto Yerro 
Administrative information 
Invented name of the medicinal product:  Toviaz 
INN (or common name) of the active 
substance(s):  
MAH: 
Currently approved Indication: 
fesoterodine 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Pharmaceutical form and strengths: 
Rapporteur: 
Start of the procedure: 
Date of this report: 
21/08/2011 
27/10/2011 
2/16 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
On  19  July  2011,  the  MAH  submitted  a  completed  paediatric  study  for  Toviaz,  in  accordance  with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
No critical expert overview has been provided. 
The MAH stated that no consequential regulatory action is claimed by the applicant at present. 
Scientific discussion 
Information on the development program 
The active substance of Toviaz is fesoterodine, a competitive, specific muscarinic receptor antagonist. 
It  is  rapidly  and  extensively  hydrolysed  by  non-specific  plasma  esterases  to  the  5-hydroxymethyl 
derivative  (5-hydroxy-methyltolterodine;  5-HMT),  its  primary  active  metabolite,  which  is  the  main 
active pharmacological substance of fesoterodine.  
Toviaz is available as a prolonged release tablet formulation at doses of 4 and 8 mg. It is indicated in 
adults for the treatment of the symptoms (increased urinary frequency and/or urgency and/or urgency 
incontinence)  that  may  occur  in  patients  with  overactive  bladder  syndrome.  Toviaz  is  not 
recommended for use in children and adolescents below 18 years of age due to lack of data on safety 
and efficacy. There are no pharmacokinetic data in paediatric patients. 
A  PIP  application  for  Toviaz  was  submitted  on  5  December  2008  and  then  voluntaryly  withdrawn  by 
MAH on 16 September 2009.  
The  MAH  is  submitting  new  data  referring  paediatric  population  in  accordance  to  article  46  of 
Regulation 1901/2006. This information consist on the results of the study A0221066 (An Open-Label, 
Dose-Escalating  Study  of  the  Pharmacokinetics,  Safety  and  Tolerability  of  Fesoterodine  in  Pediatric 
Overactive Bladder Patients Aged 8-17 Years). 
Assessor comment: 
At the time of the PIP evaluation Study A0221066 had already started. Two additional studies in 
paediatric patients were planned: Study A0221047 (safety and efficacy study in neurogenic detrusor 
overactive patients of ages 6-16 years and body weight >25 Kg) and Study A0221074 in younger and 
lighter children (>6 yrs of age and <25 Kg). No information regarding these two clinical trials is 
included in the documentation submitted. The MAH is requested to provide the status of any other 
existing paediatric study of fesoterodine related with this condition.    
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Fesoterodine fumarate is authorised as 4 mg and 8 mg sustained release tablets for once-daily dose. 
Fesoterodine is not indicated for use in children and no suitable paediatric formulation is available.  
The study drug was provided in the form of 4 mg and 8 mg Sustained Release Tablets. The dose for all 
subjects was fesoterodine 4 mg once daily (QD) escalated to 8 mg QD.  
Clinical aspects 
1. 
Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for study A0221066: An Open-Label, Dose-Escalating Study of the 
Pharmacokinetics, Safety and Tolerability of Fesoterodine in Pediatric Overactive Bladder Patients Aged 
8-17 Years. 
3/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Clinical study 
Study A0221066: An Open-Label, Dose-Escalating Study of the Pharmacokinetics, Safety and 
Tolerability of Fesoterodine in Pediatric Overactive Bladder Patients Aged 8-17 Years. 
This was an 8-week, open label, multicenter, uncontrolled study of fesoterodine 4 mg and 8 mg once 
daily in male and female paediatric subjects with Overactive Bladder (OAB); approximately 50% of the 
study population was targeted to be subjects with neurogenic detrusor overactivity (NDO). 
Methods 
  Objectives 
Primary 
 
To determine the PK of 5-hydroxy-methyltolterodine (5-HMT) in paediatric OAB subjects aged 
8 to 17 years. 
Secondary 
 
 
To examine the influence of subject covariates on the PK of 5-HMT. 
To  assess  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  fesoterodine  in  pediatric  OAB  subjects  aged  8  to  17 
years. 
Exploratory 
 
To assess the feasibility and utility of a 3-day bladder diary in pediatric OAB subjects aged 8 to 
17 years. 
  Study design 
This was an 8-week open label, uncontrolled study in male and female patients with OAB (see Figure 
1).  
Screening evaluations (Visit 1) were to occur within 28 days prior to the first dose. If the subjects were 
previously  receiving  anticholinergic  or other  medications for  OAB,  there  was  a  washout  of  1  week,  or 
other appropriate period as determined by the investigator prior to the enrolment visit.  
  Study population /Sample size 
Inclusion Criteria 
Subjects must meet all of the following inclusion criteria to be eligible for enrolment into the study: 
4/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Male  or  female  subjects  between  the  ages  of  8  and  17  years  inclusive  and  total  body  weight 
>25 kg.  
2.  OAB as defined by: 
  Symptoms  of  urinary  frequency  (8  micturitions  on  average  per  24  hours)  and  urgency 
(defined as a sudden and compelling desire to pass urine which is difficult to defer), with or 
without urgency incontinence, for at least 6 months prior to enrolment, 
OR 
  Subjects  with  stable  neurological  disease  and  urodynamically  confirmed  detrusor 
overactivity,  who  may  require  intermittent  catheterization  for  management  of  urinary 
drainage. 
Exclusion Criteria 
1.  General exclusion criteria 
Patients  with evidence or history of clinically significant disease; a positive urine drug screen; clinically 
significant  abnormality  in  ECG  or  laboratory  values;  any  condition  possibly  affecting  drug  absorption,   
previous treatment with an investigational drug (4 weeks or 5 half-lives); history of recreational use of 
drugs of abuse, alcohol and tobacco, were excluded from the study. 
Subjects required to take concomitant medications that can interact with the pharmacokinetics and/or 
pharmacodynamics  of  fesoterodine  or  patients  who  have  received  any  electrostimulation  therapy  or 
bladder retraining within 4 weeks of Visit 1 or who are expected to start such therapy during the study 
period, were already excluded. 
2.  Urinary exclusion criteria 
Subjects  with  monosymptomatic  nocturnal  enuresis  or  giggle  incontinence,  a  relevant  disease  with 
which  their  urinary  symptoms  may  be  associated,  continuous  use  of  indwelling  urinary  catheter;  a 
clinically  significant  urinary  tract  infection  at  screening;  subjects  with  greater  than  1+  hematuria  on 
dipstick  test    and  subjects  not  requiring  intermittent  catheterization  who  have  a  post-void  residual 
volume >40 mL were excluded. 
Sample size 
A total of 20 paediatric OAB subjects, aged between 8 and 17 years, were to be enrolled in the study. 
Approximately  50%  of  the  study  population  was  targeted  to  be  subjects  with  neurogenic  detrusor 
overactivity.    
  Treatments 
For  Weeks  1  to  4,  the  dose  for  all  subjects  was  to  be  fesoterodine  4  mg  QD.  Based  on  the 
investigator’s  assessment  of  individual  subjects’  tolerability  and  safety,  the  study  dose  was  to  be 
escalated to 8 mg QD for the next 4 weeks. 
  Outcomes/endpoints 
Endpoints 
o  Primary 
Model-based  pharmacokinetic  parameter  estimates  for  absorption  rate  constant,  apparent  oral 
clearance  and  volumes  of  distribution  to  predict  the  AUC,  Cmax,  Tmax  and  half-life  of  5-HMT  in 
pediatric OAB patients aged 8-17 years, and weighing more than 25 kg. 
o  Secondary 
Laboratory tests, post-void residual volume, ECG, and adverse events. 
o  Exploratory 
Change from baseline in: 
-  mean number of micturitions or catheterizations per day 
-  mean number of incontinence episodes per day 
-  mean urgency episodes per day 
-  mean volume voided per micturition or mean volume per catheterization 
Measures 
5/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Pharmacokinetic measures 
Individual concentration data: plasma 5-HMT concentrations 
o 
o  PK parameter estimates: absortion rate constant (Ka), apparent oral clearance (CL/F), 
volumes of distribution (VC/F) 
o  PK parameters predicted: AUC, Cmax, Tmax, half-life of 5-HMT. 
Blood  samples  (2  mL  each)  were  collected  according  to  the  following  schedule:  Visit  3  (Week  4) 
predose and at 0.5-2, 2-4, 4-6 hours postdose (relative to dose on that morning), Visit 4 (Week 8) at 
8-10, 10-14, and 14-16 and 16-20 hours postdose (relative to dose on the previous night). 
In order to limit the blood sampling in paediatric subjects, PK samples at earlier time points postdose 
(absorption phase) were to be collected after dosing in the morning up to Visit 3 (Weeks 1 to 4), and 
the  samples  at  later  time  points  postdose  (terminal  elimination  phase)  were  to  be  collected  after 
dosing in the evening after Visit 3 up to Visit 4 (Weeks 5 to 8).  
Variations  in  the  CYP2D6  gene  play  a  role  in  metabolism  of  active  metabolite  of  fesoterodine.  The 
alleles  which  were  to  be  genotyped  are  *3,  *4,  *5,  *6,*7,  *8,  *10,  *14,  *18,  *21,  *36,  *41,  and 
duplication. Homozygous or combination of *3,*4, *5, *6, *7, *8, *14, *18, and *21 were classified as 
a poor metabolizer of CYP2D6; all other genotypes were classified as an extensive metabolizer. 
o  Efficacy measures 
A  bladder  diary,  noting  the  number  of  micturitions/catheterizations  events,  volume  of  urine  of  each 
micturition  or  catheterization,  urinary  urgency  and  incontinence  episodes,  was  to  be  completed  for  3 
consecutive days during the week prior to Visits 2, 3, and 4.  
o  Safety measures 
Safety parameters included clinical laboratory evaluations, physical examination, vital signs, post-void 
residual volume (PVR) in subjects who were not performing clean intermittent bladder catheterization 
(CIC) and the frequency and intensity of AEs were collected according to the Schedule of Activities.. 
  Statistical Methods 
Four populations were considered: 
o  Pharmacokinetic Analysis Sets:  
o 
o 
the  PK  concentration  population  was  defined  as  all  subjects  randomized  and  treated 
who had at least 1 concentration during the study. 
the  PK  parameter  analysis  population  was  defined  as  all  subjects  randomized  and 
treated who had at least 1 of the PK parameters of primary interest during the study. 
o  Full Analysis Set (FAS): The FAS consisted of all randomized subjects who had taken at least 1 
dose of study medication. This was a secondary analysis population. Withdrawn subjects might 
have been included in these analyses if considered appropriate. 
o  Per  Protocol  Analysis  Set  (PPAS):  The  PPAS  consisted  of  all  randomized  subjects  who  have 
completed  the  study  and  who  were  not  serious  protocol  violators.  This  was  also  a  secondary 
analysis population. The PPAS was defined prior to unblinding the study. 
Pharmacokinetic Analysis 
The population PK (PPK) modelling approach was used to analyze the plasma concentration-time data 
for  the  fesoterodine  4  mg  QD  and  8  mg  QD  doses  for  the  estimation  of  PPK  parameters  (apparent 
systemic  clearance  [CL/F],  Ka,  and  apparent  volumes  of  distribution  [VC/F])  in  paediatric  subjects. 
Population mean estimates for the PK parameters were obtained by fitting the PK and variance models 
to  the  whole  data  set  of  all  individuals.  Confidence  intervals  (CIs)  were  computed  for  means  and 
variances  of  estimates.  Individual  estimates  of  PK  parameters  were  obtained  using  an  empirical 
Bayesian Estimation Method.  
6/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  inter-subject  variability  was  estimated  and  95%  CIs  were  reported  for  all  population  parameter 
estimates.  For  the  residual  variability,  various  models  were  fitted,  including  but  not  restricted  to 
additive and proportional models. 
Exploratory  analyses  were  performed  to  investigate  the  effect  of  covariates  including,  but  not  limited 
to,  age,  weight,  CYP2D6  status,  and  sex.  The  PK  parameter  estimates  in  paediatric  subjects  were 
compared descriptively to those previously obtained in the adult population. 
Nonlinear Mixed-Effects Modelling: Modelling PPK analyses were conducted via nonlinear mixed-effects 
modelling with the NONMEM® software, Version VII (ICON Development Solutions, Ellicott City, MD). 
The  first-order  conditional  estimation  (FOCE)  method  in  NONMEM  was  employed  for  all  model  runs, 
assuming  that  convergence  was  successful.  If  convergence  was  problematic,  the  first-order  (FO) 
method was employed. 
Base Model: Different structural models such as 1- or 2- compartment PK models for fesoterodine were 
considered  as  dictated  by  the  data.  In  all  models,  estimation  of  CL/F  and  VC/F  were  of  primary 
interest.  Model  selection  was  driven  by  the  data  and  based  on  various  goodness  of  fit  indicators, 
including  comparisons  based  on  the  minimum  objective  function  value  (OFV),  Akaike  Information 
Criterion (AIC), visual inspection of diagnostic scatter plots and evaluation of estimates of population. 
Final  Model: The  population  modelling  approach  was  used  to  analyze  plasma  concentration  time  data 
for the fesoterodine 4 mg and 8 mg doses for the estimation of PPK parameters (CL/F, Ka, and VC/F) 
in  paediatric  subjects.  Population  mean  estimates  for  the  PK  parameters  were  obtained  by  fitting  the 
PK  and  variance  models  to  the  whole  data  set  of  all  individuals.  CIs  were  computed  for  means  and 
variances of estimates. Using NONMEM, the FO or FOCE methods were employed for all model building. 
Individual  estimates  of  PK  parameters  were  obtained  using  POSTHOC,  an  empirical  Bayesian 
Estimation Method. 
Assessment of Model Adequacy (Goodness of Fit): The inter-subject variability was estimated and 95% 
CIs  reported  for  all  population  parameter  estimates.  For  the  residual  variability,  various  models  were 
fitted, including but not restricted to additive and proportional models. Adequacy of model fitting was 
judged by the objective function, goodness of fit plots and parameter precision estimates. 
Safety analyses 
No formal hypothesis testing of safety data was performed. Results from the safety assessments and 
any AE were presented in tabular and/or graphical format adhering to the Sponsor’s standards.  
Exploratory analyses 
No  formal  efficacy  evaluations  were  conducted  in  this  study,  although  the  bladder  diary  assessment 
provided exploratory measures of clinical effect. 
  Changes on the conduct of the study / planned analyses 
The  protocol,  finalized  10  December  2008,  was  amended  3  times.  The  date  of  the  initiating  of  the 
study is March 2009. Last subject visit was done on December 2010 
 
First amendment (23 November 2009):Change in inclusion criteria: expansion of the age range 
in Study A0221066 to 8 to 17 years, as long as the patient body weight is above 35 kg. 
  Second  amendment  (26  May  2010):  Change  in  exclusion  criterion  15  to  allow  participation  of 
subjects  who  are  incapable  of  independent  toileting  or  have  assistance  with  intermittent 
catheterization. 
 
Third amendment (28 July 2010): Change in inclusion criteria: the body weight requirement for 
inclusion in this study is lowered from 35 kg to 25 kg. 
Changes on the planned analyses: 
o  To update the age-range of subjects in the study, in line with the amended protocol. 
o  To clarify how gaps in diary completion were handled. 
o  To clarify the derivation of diary endpoints. 
7/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This amendment was made following the review of unblinded tables (as this was an open label study), 
however,  all  updates  were  to  provide  further  detail  and  clarification,  and  not  to  change  any  of  the 
planned analyses. 
Results 
  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A  total  of  20  subjects  were  planned,  and  21  subjects  were  assigned  to  study  treatment  and  treated 
(Table  S3).  Twenty  subjects  completed  the  study;  1  subject  was  no  longer  willing  to  participate  and 
discontinued from the study. All enrolled and treated subjects were analyzed for safety. 
Table S3. Subjects Included in Pharmacokinetics, Efficacy, and Safety Analyses 
  Baseline data 
There were 12 (57.1%) males and 9 (42.9%) females in the study (Table 6). The average body weight 
was  51.9  kg  (range  31.8  kg  to  83.9  kg),  and  the  average  body  mass  index  was  23.2  kg/m2  (range 
15.3 kg/m2 to 33.8 kg/m2). The mean age of all subjects was 13.1 years (range 9 years to 17 years). 
Eighteen (85.7%) of the subjects were white. 
8/16 
 
 
 
 
The primary diagnosis for 10 subjects was idiopathic OAB (hypertonic bladder), with a mean duration 
since  onset  of  9.5  years  (range  4.3  years  to  17.5  years).  The  primary  diagnosis  for  11  subjects  was 
neurogenic bladder, with a mean duration since onset of 9.0 years (range 0.6 years to 17.4 years). 
Each  of  the  21  subjects  enrolled  and  treated  received  at  least  1  dose  of  study  medication.  Subjects 
10051002  and  10111004  were  <80%  compliant  with  study  medication.  Subject  10051002 
discontinued  prior  to  escalation  to  the  8  mg  dose.  Seven  subjects  missed  no  doses  of  study 
medication, while other subjects missed occasional doses. 
  Pharmacokinetic results 
The  results  excluding  the  concentrations  in  the  three  17-year-old  subjects  were  evaluated  to  assess 
the  influence  of  these  subjects  on  the  overall  interpretation  of  study  results  for  paediatric  subjects 
across  the  age  range  of  8  years  to  16  years  and  11  months.  As  expected,  based  on  the  mature 
development stage across this age range, there was no apparent difference in the PK results when the 
17-year-old subjects were included in the analysis dataset (Table S5). Based on these findings, it was 
further  decided  to  include  these  subjects  in  the  PPK  analysis  dataset  to  allow  robust  modelling  of  5-
HMT population PK. 
9/16 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects  with  NDO  did  not  appear  to  have  any  remarkable  differences  in  5-HMT  PK  when  compared 
with  subjects  with idiopathic  OAB  (Figure  3).  Somewhat  higher  exposures  in  NDO  subjects  may  have 
been due to the generally lower body weights in this subject group compared with idiopathic subjects. 
PPK analyses were conducted via nonlinear mixed-effects modelling with NONMEM® software; the data 
were  adequately  described  by  a  one-compartment  model  with  first-order  absorption  and  elimination. 
PPK  parameters  (CL/F,  VC/F)  were  standardized  to  a  70  kg  person,  using  the  allometric  size  model. 
Age and sex were not included as covariates in the final PPK model due to convergence failure and lack 
of  improvement  to  explain  PK  variability.  Importantly,  the  available  data  from  this  study  contained  a 
small number of children with a limited age range. 
10/16 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  PPK  analysis  (Table  S6),  all  PK  parameters,  intersubject´s  variability,  and  residual  variability 
were  well  estimated  as  reflected  in  reasonable  %  relative  standard  error  (RSE).  Inter-individual 
variability  in  PK  parameters  calculated  as  the  square  root  of  inter-individual  variance  (ω2)  and 
expressed as % coefficient of variation (CV), ranged from 38% (CL/F) to 43% (VC/F). 
11/16 
 
 
 
 
 
The  actual  observed  plasma  concentrations  from  this  study  were  in  agreement  with  the  simulation 
results,  based  on  the  adult  population  PK  parameters  and  allometric  scaling  of  the  adult  population 
parameters applied to a distribution of paediatric subjects meeting the age and body weight criteria for 
this  study,  that  were  used  to  determine  paediatric  doses.  This  agreement  of  the  simulated  and 
observed concentration value represents an external validation of the model used to predict exposures. 
Pharmacokinetic Modelling Results 
PK  modelling  and  simulation  (M&S)  results,  based  on  the  adult  population  PK  parameters  and 
allometric  scaling  of  the  adult  population  parameters  applied  to  a  distribution  of  paediatric  patients 
meeting  the  age  and  body  weight  criteria  for  this  study,  were  used  to  determine  paediatric  doses. 
These  M&S  analyses  predicted  that  following  administration  of  fesoterodine  4  mg  and  8  mg  QD  to 
children aged 6 to 16 years and >25 kg, exposures would be similar to those in adults given the same 
doses. 
Clinical trial simulation with this study design was performed. Figure 5 shows the projected outcome of 
1000 virtual clinical trials (median and 95% prediction intervals) for fesoterodine 4 mg QD followed by 
fesoterodine  8  mg  QD  doses  in  the  intended  population.  The  actual  observed  5-HMT  plasma 
concentrations from this study (open circles in Figure 5) were in agreement with the simulation results. 
  Pharmacogenomic results 
The  CYP2D6  metabolizer  status  based  on  genotyping  results  was  classified  as  poor  metabolizer  for  1 
subject, missing for 2 subjects (due to lack of sample), and extensive or ultra-rapid metabolizer in all 
others. 
  Safety results 
12/16 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no deaths, severe adverse events , or permanent withdrawals due to adverse events (AEs) 
reported. One subject receiving fesoterodine 8 mg QD temporarily discontinued study treatment due to 
a serious AE (SAE) (Table S7). A total of 8 subjects receiving fesoterodine  4 mg QD and 13  subjects 
receiving fesoterodine 8 mg QD reported AEs (all causalities). 
A total of 2 subjects receiving fesoterodine 4 mg QD reported 3 treatment related AEs and a total of 5 
subjects receiving fesoterodine 8 mg QD reported 5 treatment-related AEs (Table S8). 
There was 1 treatment-related SAE: a 15-year-old female subject temporarily discontinued study drug 
fesoterodine 8 mg QD due to constipation. Study drug was temporarily stopped during hospitalization; 
the  subject  recovered  and  the  event  resolved.  The event  was  considered  an  important medical  event 
and related to study drug by the investigator. 
13/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment-related AEs were 1 AE each of dry mouth (mild), constipation (moderate),  dry eye (mild), 
and  blurred  vision  (moderate),  and  2 AEs  each  of nausea  (mild)  and  residual  urine  volume  increased 
(mild). 
Post-Void Residual volumes at baseline and following treatment with fesoterodine 4 mg QD and 8 mg 
QD  doses  in  subjects  not  performing  clean  intermittent  bladder  catheterization  are  summarized  in 
Table S9. 
Treatment-related  AEs  of  the  central  nervous  system,  such  as  behavioural  change,  aggression, 
drowsiness  or  cognitive  dysfunction  were  not  reported  by  patients  in  this  study.  Intermittent 
inattentive  behaviour  was  observed  on  Days  2-5  of  treatment  with  4  mg  fesoterodine  in  one  subject 
(10111005); the causality of this AE was not deemed treatment-related by the principal investigator as 
it was consistent with the patients behaviour history. 
The  mean  increase  from  baseline  pulse  rate  was  14.6  bpm  (Week  1,  4  hours  post-dose),  4.6  bpm 
(Week  4,  0  hours  post-dose),  12.4  bpm  (Week  4,  4  hours  post-dose)  during  fesoterodine  4  mg 
treatment and 8.2 bpm (Week 8, 4 hours post-dose) during fesoterodine 8 mg treatment. The increase 
did  not  appear  dose-related.  Following  fesoterodine  4  mg,  two  subjects  had  pulse  rates  >120  bpm. 
Patient heart rate will be monitored in the planned paediatric studies with fesoterodine. 
There were no ECG abnormalities of clinical significance at Screening or at the end of treatment. 
  Efficacy results 
No efficacy evaluations were performed in this study. 
Based  on  feedback  from  investigators  and  subjects,  and  qualitative  assessment  of  usable  diary  data, 
the 3-day bladder diaries in this study were deemed feasible and useful for assessing OAB symptoms 
in paediatric subjects (see Table S4). However, considering the small number of subjects in this study, 
these results should be interpreted with caution. 
14/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
Fesoterodine is indicated for the treatment of the overactive bladder in adults. The use was restricted 
for children and no pharmacokinetic data for paediatrics were available. 
The  MAH  has  submitted  the  results  of  a  open  label  study  to  characterize  the  pharmacokinetics  of  5-
HMT  in  children  aged  to  8-17  years  following  4  and  8  mg  once-daily  regimens,  and  identify  potential 
covariates  that  could  explain  the  inter-individual  variability  in  5-HMT  pharmacokinetics  in  this 
paediatric population. 
Plasma  concentrations  data  from  21  paediatric  patients  (10  suffering  idiopathic  OAB,  11  with 
neurogenic  detrusor  overactivity)  from  9  to  17  years  were  collected  and  used  for  a  population 
pharmacokinetic  analysis.  The  PK  of  5-HMT  following  the  administration  of  fesoterodine  once  daily  to 
paediatric  patients  were  simulated  using  an  allometric  scaling  method  via  nonlinear  mixed-effects 
modelling using the final adult population PK parameters. Pediatric patients, aged 8-17 years and body 
weight >25 kg, representing the population of study A0221066 were used for PK simulations to select 
paediatric doses.  
Results of modelling and simulations predicted that 5-HMT exposures in paediatric patients (aged 11-
17  years,  weighing  >35  kg  or  aged  6-16  years,  weighing  >25  kg)  are  within  the  range  of  exposures 
observed  in  adults  given  the  same  doses  in  Phase  2-3  studies.  Patients  with  NDO  did  not  appear  to 
have  any  remarkable  differences  in  5-HMT  PK  when  compared  with  patients  with  idiopathic  OAB. 
Somewhat higher exposures were observed in NDO patients, which may be due to the generally lower 
body weights in this patient group compared with idiopathic patients. 
Currently,  the  wording  of  the  SmPC  of  fesoterodine  reflects  the  lack  of  data  in  paediatric  population. 
No amendment derived from this study is proposed by the MAH in this application.  
However, there seems to be two ongoing additional studies in paediatric population: Study A0221047 
(safety  and  efficacy  study  in  neurogenic  detrusor  overactive  patients  of  ages  6-16  years  and  body 
weight >25 Kg) and Study A0221074 in younger and lighter children (>6 yrs of age and <25 Kg). No 
information  regarding  these  two  clinical  trials  is  included  in  the  documentation.  Since  the  results  of 
these two studies could impact the current assessment, the MAH is requested to address this issue, i.e, 
whether  the  SPC  may  be  updated  with  the  information  already  provided  or  whether  it  should  be 
preferable to wait for the outcome of these two trials. 
15/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the assessor’s view, the results of Study A0221066, although limited, could be of use for prescribers 
when  a  treatment  with  fesoterodine  is  considered  for  a  paediatric  patient.   Safety  data  and 
pharmacokinetic  results  of  patients  treated  in  this  study  can  allow  a  better  dose  approach  in  this 
population.  The  inclusion  of  this  information  in  the  SmPC  (Section  5.2  Pharmacokinetic  properties)  if 
appropriate (please see above), should be discussed by the MAH. 
Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Having assessed the data submitted for this procedure, it is considered that the information provided 
could be of help for prescribers. Whether it is more appropriate to include the data in this moment in 
section  5.2  of  the  SPC  or  whether  it  would  be  preferable  to  wait  for  the  results  of  the  two  ongoing 
studies related to this procedure should be discussed by the MAH. 
Also, a short clinical overview, lacking in the current submission, should be provided by the MAH. 
NOTE  FOR  READER’S:  After  circulating  PAR,  Pfizer  informed  of  the  following  timelines:  study 
A0221047 is planned to start 2Q2012 with CSR availability 1Q2014 and Study A0221074 is planned to 
start  2Q2014  with  CSR  1Q2016.  As  proposed  by  the  EMA  it  is  agreed  that  this  procedure  can  be 
considered concluded (no additional clarifications are therefore  requested) and that the results of the 
two  remaining  studies  as  well  as  any  potential  update  of  the  SPC  will  be  discussed  in  a  future 
commitment, once the data are available. 
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled  
  Not fulfilled: 
Additional clarifications requested 
N/A 
16/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
