SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion and scientific discussion on procedures which 
have  been  finalised  before  1  October  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures  after  this 
date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Pulmonary  arterial  hypertension  (PAH)  is  a  rare,  progressive  disease  involving  vasoconstriction, 
vascular remodelling, and thrombosis in situ resulting in a progressive increase in pulmonary vascular 
resistances  (PVR)  and  right  ventricular  hypertrophy  leading  to  right  ventricular  failure.  It  can  occur 
without  an  obvious  cause,  as  inprimary  pulmonary  hypertension  (PPH),  or  secondary  to  systemic 
disease  or  congenital  heart  disease.  Functional  status  is  a  predictor  of  survival.  Patients  who  are  in 
functional  class  II  and  III  have  a  mean  survival  of  3.5  years  compared  with  a  mean  survival  of  6 
months for those who are in functional class IV. 
The conventional therapy for patients with PAH includes vasodilators, such as high doses of calcium 
antagonists, anticoagulant agents and oxygen. Diuretics and supplementary oxygen are used to relieve 
symptoms, such as dyspnoea and peripheral oedema. In patients responding to testing with nitric oxide 
(approximately 1/3 of the patients), symptoms are improved and survival prolonged by the combined 
treatment  of  high  doses  of  calcium  channel  blockers  (CCB)  and  anticoagulants.  Epoprostenol 
(prostacyclin), delivered via a portable pump system into an in-dwelling central vein catheter, has been 
shown to improve haemodynamic parameters,  exercise capacity and life  expectancy in patients with 
severe  PPH  (NYHA  Class  III  and  IV).  Pharmacological  tolerance  with  need  for  dose  increments 
during long-term treatment is commonly observed. 
The active substance of Tracleer, bosentan, is a non-peptide antagonist of human endothelin receptors 
(ETA and ETB). Endothelin (ET) levels are elevated in patients with PAH and correlate with disease 
severity  and  prognosis,  suggesting  a  causal  role.  Bosentan  is  intended  to  affect  vasoconstricting, 
hypertrophic and fibrotic effects by blocking the actions of receptors ETA and ETB. 
The  approved  indication:  “Treatment  of  pulmonary  arterial  hypertension  (PAH)  to  improve  exercise 
capacity and symptoms in patients with grade III functional status. Efficicacy has been shown in:  
• 
• 
Primary PAH 
PAH secondary to scleroderma without significant interstitial pulmonary disease.” 
The recommended maintenance dose is 125 mg twice daily.  
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Tracleer is presented as immediate release film-coated tablets containing 62.5 mg or 125 mg bosentan 
as  the  monohydrate.  The  62.5  mg  tablets  are  orange-white,  round,  biconvex  film-coated  tablets 
embossed  with  "62,5"on  one  side.  The  125  mg  tablets  are  orange-white,  oval,  biconvex  film-coated 
tablets embossed with “125” on one side. 
The composition of the cores for the 62.5 mg and the 125 mg tablets are proportional (common blend), 
and  the  ingredients  are  bosentan  monohydrate,  maize  starch,  pregelatinised  starch,  sodium  starch 
glycollate, povidone K90, glycerol dibehenate and magnesium stearate, while the coating is composed 
of hypromellose, glycerol triacetate, talc, titanium dioxide [E171], yellow [E172] and red [E172] iron 
oxides, and ethylcellulose aqueous dispersion (solid part). 
1
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The tablets are presented in PVC/PE/PVDC/aluminium blisters, each containing 14 tablets. Secondary 
packaging consists of cartons containing 14 (62.5 mg strength only), 56 or  112 tablets. Not all pack 
sizes may be marketed. 
Active substance 
The  active  substance,  bosentan  monohydrate,  is  synthesised  in  7  steps  from  2-chloropyrimidine. 
Satisfactory control specifications and associated methods are provided for the starting materials, key 
intermediates, reagents and solvents. No metal catalysts are used. The active ingredient is milled after 
manufacture. 
Bosentan has no asymmetric atoms and is therefore achiral. 
Twenty-seven possible impurities from the route of synthesis are discussed but only 3 impurities, Ro 
47-0005, Ro 47-4056 and  Ro 47-9931,  are  regularly formed. The  other possible impurities have  not 
been observed in significant amounts. The specified limits set for Ro 47-0005, Ro 47-4056 and Ro 47-
9931 are < 0.2 %, < 0.3 % and < 0.3 %, respectively. The < 0.3 % limits set for the levels present in 
the batch used in toxicological studies qualify the 2 latter impurities. The level of Ro 47-0005 in the 
toxicological batch was below the specified limit set but the limit is nevertheless considered qualified 
in  view  of  the  maximum  daily  dose  of  bosentan  (250  mg).  The  organic  solvents  used  in  the  last  3 
synthesis  steps  are  dimethylformamide,  denatured  ethanol,  methanol,  isopropyl  acetate  and 
cyclohexane. However, the levels of all solvents except ethanol were below the detection limits in the 
batches presented. The specified limit set for ethanol (≤ 0.2 %) is below the ≤ 0.5 % limit generally 
accepted for class 3 solvents. 
The  structural  and  physico-chemical  characterisations  of  bosentan  are  satisfactory.  The  partition  co-
efficient  for  bosentan  in  octanol/buffer  is  as  follows:  at  pH  4:  log  P=  3.1,  at  pH  7.4:  log  D=  1.3. 
Bosentan has a pKa of 5.46. Bosentan monohydrate is freely soluble in acetone and dichloromethane, 
soluble  in  ethanol  and  ethyl  acetate,  slightly  soluble  in  methanol  and  isopropanol,  and  very  slightly 
soluble  in  hexane.  Bosentan  monohydrate  is  non-hygroscopic  and  polymorphism  has  not  been 
observed. 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  identity  and  tests  and  limits  for  assay,  related 
substances, residual solvents, sulphated ash, heavy metals, and particle size distribution.  All analytical 
methods  have  been  submitted,  as  well  as  validation  data,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Note  for 
Guidance. 
Batch  analysis  results  are  presented  for  3  commercial  batches  manufactured  by  the  commercial 
manufacturer  and  the  results  confirm  satisfactory  uniformity  of  results  and  compliance  with  the 
specification. The levels of Ro 47-0005, Ro 47-4056, Ro 47-9931 and residual ethanol were < 0.10 %, 
0.11-0.14 %, 0.11-0.15 % and 0.02-0.03 %, respectively. 
The stability of bosentan has been examined under a variety of stress testing conditions. Real-time and 
accelerated  stability  studies  have  been  performed  on  bosentan  powder  in  accordance  with  the  ICH 
Guideline.  No  significant  changes  in  any  parameter  were  observed.  The  proposed  retest  period  of  3 
years (and no special storage conditions) is justified. 
Other ingredients 
The excipients all comply with the respective current PhEur monographs, except the red and yellow 
iron  oxides,  which  are  claimed  to  comply  with  EEC  requirements,  and  ethylcellulose  aqueous 
dispersion, which complies with its USP/NF monograph. 
Regarding  TSE  compliance,  the  applicant  declares  that  none  of  the  excipients  used  for  commercial 
manufacture of Tracleer will be of animal origin. Although magnesium stearate of bovine origin has 
been used for manufacture of the registration batches, it is stated that the magnesium stearate used for 
manufacture of future clinical and commercial batches will be of vegetable origin only. 
2
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Satisfactory control specifications are provided for the primary packaging materials. 
Product development and finished product 
The original development of bosentan tablets was initiated by F. Hoffmann-La Roche, but in 1999 all 
activities except on-going stability studies were discontinued. Later Actelion Ltd licensed the right to 
bosentan and contracted out the manufacture to Patheon Inc., Canada. The product development was 
focussed  on  selection  of  dosage  form,  choice  of  excipients,  compatibility  of  excipients  and  active 
ingredient,  optimisation  of  the  manufacturing  process,  transfer  of  the  manufacturing  process  from 
Roche to Patheon, and development of the dissolution test method. 
The  finished  product  is  manufactured  using  a  typical  wet  granulation  method  as  follows:  bosentan 
monohydrate,  maize  starch,  pregelatinised  starch,  sodium  starch  glycollate,  and  povidone  are  dry 
blended, purified water is sprayed on the blend, and the mixture is kneaded to granules in a high shear 
granulator.  The  granules  are  then  dried  (fluid  bed),  sieved,  mixed  with  glycerol  dibehenate  and 
magnesium stearate, and compressed to tablets and coated. The applicant commits to perform process 
validation  on  the  first  commercial  batches  produced.  Reference  is  also  made  to  the  batch  analysis 
certificates presented for 3 pilot batches. However the manufacturing parameters of the different steps 
of the process are satisfactorily validated. 
The  specification  for  the  finished  products  at  release  and  end  of  shelf-life  includes  tests  for  shape, 
colour, average mass, uniformity of mass, identity, assay (95-105 %), related substances (Ro 47-4056: 
max. 0.3 % and others: each max. 0.2 % and total max.0.5 %), dissolution (paddle, 50 rpm, 1 % SLS; 
75  %  after  30  minutes),  and  microbial  contamination.  The  limits  for  degradation  products  are 
qualified. All the methods of analysis are satisfactorily described and validated. 
Batch  analysis  results  are  presented  for  3  batches  of  each  tablet  strength  manufactured  at  the 
commercial manufacturing site. The scale of these batches is approximately one third of the indicated 
maximum  scale.  All  batches  complied  with  the  finished  product  specification  and  demonstrated 
consistency of manufacture. The content of Ro 47-4056 and other related substances in the batches of 
both  strengths  were  0.14-0.17  %  and  <  0.1  %,  respectively.  The  amount  of  bosentan  dissolved  was 
over 99 % after 30 minutes for all batches. 
Stability of the Product 
the  commercial  manufacturing  site.  The  batches  were  packaged 
Stability  results  have  been  presented  for  3  batches  of  each  strength  manufactured  in  one  third  of 
in 
maximum  scale  at 
PVC/PE/PVDC/aluminium  blisters.  The  data  for  these  commercial  batches  include  results  from  9 
months  accelerated  and  18  months  long-term  storage  (at  25°C/60%RH).  Also  presented  are 
supplementary  data  for  one  batch  of  each  strength  manufactured  at  a  previous  site  and  packaged  in 
amber glass bottles. The supplementary data, which are of limited value since the packaging materials 
differ, include 24  months  accelerated data and up to 24  months long-term stability data. All batches 
are  more  or  less  unchanged  during  storage  at  all  conditions.  The  data  provided  by  the  applicant 
confirmed  a  slight  decrease  in  bosentan  content  for  the  commercial  batches,  but  the  product  is 
remaining within its specifications for each storage condition. 
In general the stability studies support the shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC (Do 
not  store  above  30°C).  Whilst  a  24-month  shelf-life  for  Tracleer  62.5  mg  and  125  mg  film  coated 
tablets is justified, this should  be confirmed with real-time  data, and the applicant  has  committed to 
provide this as soon as it becomes available. As a post-authorisation Follow up Measure, the MAH has 
submitted real-time stability data for Tracleer 62.5 mg and 125 mg film coated tablets and a 36-month 
shelf life is justified. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
All safety studies were performed according to good laboratory practice (GLP) with the exception of 
the safety pharmacology studies and the studies of phototoxic potential. 
3
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
Endothelin (ET) is a neurohormone secreted by the endothelium. It is a very potent vasoconstrictor, as 
well as a stimulator of cell proliferation, fibrosis and inflammation. The two receptors ETA and ETB 
are  involved  in  the  contractile  effect  of  ET-1  in  human  pulmonary  arteries.  Recent  publications 
suggest a beneficial effect of ETA blockade in cardiovascular and renal disease; whereas ETB mediated 
effects may be protective in animals. 
• 
In vitro studies  
In vitro functional experiments performed on animal and human tissues show that bosentan behaves as 
a competitive antagonist on ET receptors. Bosentan competes with the binding of ET-1 and other ET 
peptides  to  both  ETA  and  ETB  receptors,  with  a  slightly  higher  affinity  for  ETA  receptors  (Ki = 4.1–
43 nM) than for ETB receptors (Ki = 38-730 nM). 
ET is a potent growth factor in combination with other growth factors such as platelet-derived growth 
factor.  Bosentan  inhibits  the  growth-inducing  effects  of  ET  and  in  various  models;  bosentan 
significantly reduces vascular hypertrophy, neointima formation and cardiac hypertrophy. 
ET  also  stimulates  collagen  synthesis.  This  fibrotic  effect  is  essentially  mediated  via  ETB  receptors. 
Bosentan prevents the cardiac fibrosis induced not only by ET, but also by aldosterone or angiotensin 
II infusion in rats.  
• 
In vivo studies  
Bosentan  increases  ET  plasma  concentrations  by  a  factor  of  2-3  fold.  When  bosentan  is  given 
chronically, the increase in ET levels is less marked after prolonged treatment than early on. Bosentan 
was tested in several animal models of chronic PAH, and was either given as a preventive treatment or 
as a curative treatment after the establishment of PAH. In the chronic hypoxic rat model, bosentan not 
only prevented the development of pulmonary hypertension but also reversed established pulmonary 
hypertension and vascular remodelling. Bosentan has been shown to have an effect both on pulmonary 
vascular  remodelling  and  the  development  of  right  ventricular  hypertrophy.  Bosentan  inhibits  the 
pressor effects of ET peptides on ETA and ETB receptors, and decreases blood pressure and peripheral 
vascular resistance in various rat models of hypertension without inducing tachyphylaxis. In contrast 
to  these  pathological  situations,  bosentan  has  no  significant  blood  pressure-lowering  effect  in 
normotensive  animals,  with  the  exception  of  normotensive  guinea  pigs.  The  lowering  of  blood 
pressure induced by bosentan is not associated with an increase in heart rate. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  potential  cardiovascular  interaction  between  sumatriptan  and  bosentan  on  heart  rate  and  blood 
pressure  was  evaluated  in  rats.  Sumatriptan  was  injected  intravenously  in  increasing  doses  (0.1  to 
3.0 mg/kg) 10 min after i.v. injection of saline (control) or 30 mg/kg of bosentan. The combination of 
sumatriptan and bosentan did not have any significant effect on blood pressure or heart rate. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
Bosentan  has  choleretic  effects  and  increases  bile  flow  in  dogs.  However,  bosentan  also  induces 
functional  cholestasis  and  competes  in  a  concentration-dependent  fashion  with  bile  salt  elimination 
through  liver  canalicular  membranes  by  inhibiting  the  bile  salt  export  pump  (Bsep).  Intravenous 
injection  of  high  doses  of  bosentan  in  rats  leads  to  a  dose-dependent  increase  in  plasma  bile  salt 
concentrations.  Cyclosporine  A  and  glibenclamide  also  increase  bile  salt  concentration  in  rats.  The 
combination  of  bosentan  and  glibenclamide  leads  to  an  additive  effect.  The  inhibition  of  bile  salt 
elimination  by  bosentan  results  in  a  concentration-dependent  accumulation  of  bile  salts,  which  are 
cytotoxic to hepatocytes at high concentrations. 
Bosentan  decreases  vascular  permeability,  increases  plasma  volume  and  decreases  haematocrit  in 
normal  rats and  in  models of increased  plasma extravasation. The explanation  might  be  that  ET has 
pro-inflammatory  effects,  enhancing  microvascular  permeability,  thereby  decreasing  plasma  volume 
and increasing haematocrit. 
Bosentan was studied in a number of safety pharmacology studies in vivo after single oral doses up to 
300 mg/kg  and  single  i.v.  doses  up  to  50 mg/kg  and  in  some  in  vitro  experiments.  In  these  tests, 
bosentan showed: 
4
EMEA 2005 
- 
- 
- 
- 
no effect on the central nervous system in mice,  
no effect on gastro-intestinal motility in mice, 
no effect on respiratory or cardiac function in anesthetised dogs, 
a transient dose-dependent decrease in urine volume and electrolyte excretion in rats (It might 
be secondary to a decrease in perfusion pressure due to the vasodilatory effect of bosentan.),  
-        no effect on smooth muscle contraction in vitro, 
- 
no effect in vitro on cardiac repolarization in rabbit Purkinje fibres. 
In the cardiovascular study in anaesthetised  dogs no adverse effects on the ECG were reported after 
intravenous  administration  of  bosentan.  There  was  no  data  on  systemic  exposure  of  the  three  main 
human  metabolites  presented,  however,  extrapolation  from  other  studies  indicate  that  exposure  was 
somewhat  higher  than  that  anticipated  in  human  after  therapeutic  dose.  In  vitro  electrophysiology 
testing  with  bosentan  in  rabbit  Purkinje  fibres  did  not  show  any  significant  changes.  The  main 
metabolites were not tested, but this was considered acceptable considering the chemical structure of 
the metabolites similar to the parent compound and the lack of effect on cardiovascular parameters in 
the clinical setting.  
No  studies  were  performed  on  autonomic  nervous  system,  on  platelet  aggregation,  on  endocrine 
system.  However,  results  obtained  in  primary  pharmacological  studies,  toxicological  studies  and 
clinical studies do not suggest any concern. 
The in vivo effect of bosentan on mitochondrial function is unknown. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
Bosentan has been shown to be a competitive antagonist of ET binding to both ETA and ETB receptors. 
Bosentan  has  been  demonstrated  to  exert  the  expected  vasodilatory  response.  Pharmacodynamic 
studies  have  shown  that  bosentan  reduces  pulmonary  artery  pressure  and  improves  other  pulmonary 
parameters  in  various  in  vivo  animal  models.  However,  the  selectivity  for  pulmonary  vessels  as 
opposed  to  other  vascular  systems,  such  as  cerebral,  coronary,  renal  and  extremities,  has  not  been 
demonstrated experimentally. 
Bosentan  exerts  a  concentration-dependent  functional  cholestatic  effect  by  competing  with  bile  salt 
elimination via the Bsep. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A number  of assay  methods  using  HPLC/UV  and  LC/MS/MS were  developed  over  several years in 
various  analytical  laboratories  and  applied  to  non-clinical  and  clinical  pharmacology,  kinetic  and 
toxicokinetic  studies  in  order  to  determine  the  concentrations  of  bosentan  (Ro  47-0203)  and  its  3 
major metabolites (Ro 48-5033, Ro 47-8634, and Ro 64-1056) in biological fluids.  
Validation of methods used in toxicokinetics and clinical pharmacokinetic is satisfactory. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  bosentan  has  been  characterised  in  various  animal  species  following  both 
intravenous and oral administration. The pharmacokinetics of bosentan differs among animal species. 
The  dog  was  shown  to  be  the  most  representative  species  for  man.  Bosentan  showed  good 
bioavailability  (50  to  70%)  when  administered  orally  to  rats,  mice  and  dogs.  Over  the  higher  dose 
ranges of bosentan, the plasma levels were less than dose proportional. In the rat and mouse, but not 
the other species, exposure in females was higher than in males. Bosentan is highly bound to plasma 
proteins  in  vitro  (98.1 %  in  humans,  95.9 %  in  dog,  and  98.5 %  in  rat),  mainly  to  albumin.  The 
metabolism of bosentan is characterised by phase I transformation and metabolic pathways are similar 
in  all  species  including  man.  The  following  three  main  metabolites  are  formed:  the  hydroxylation 
product of the t-butyl group (Ro 48-5033), the free phenol metabolite (Ro 47-8634), and the secondary 
metabolite,  Ro  64-1056,  which  is  the  result  of  both  metabolic  reactions.  Rats  selectively  formed  an 
additional metabolite, Ro 47-8279, which was identified as an oxidation product of the ethylene glycol 
side chain to the corresponding aldehyde. Bosentan metabolites are excreted almost exclusively in the 
bile with very little unchanged drug detected. Renal excretion is negligible. Bosentan is a microsomal 
enzyme  inducer  in  mice  and  dog.  An  increase  of  liver  cytochrome  P450  concentrations/activities  is 
observed after  subchronic  oral  treatment at high dose  levels (up to 4500  mg/kg/d) in the  mouse  and 
dog, but not in the rat. This likely contributes to the time-dependent decrease in plasma concentrations 
observed in the animal toxicology studies. Following administration of 14C bosentan, concentrations of 
drug-related material greatly exceeding those in plasma are found in liver and intestinal content, which 
5
EMEA 2005 
is  consistent  with  excretion  of  bosentan  by  the  biliary  route.  In  most  other  organs,  levels  of 
radioactivity  were  below  those  in  plasma.  Levels  in  the  brain  are  below  the  limit  of  detection.  The 
majority of bosentan-related material is excreted within 3–5 days in the rat, marmoset and dog. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
The acute toxicity of bosentan was determined by the oral, i.v., s.c. and i.p. routes of administration in 
mice and rats and by the oral route of administration in dogs. In mice and rats the highest non-lethal 
doses were in the 125 to 250-mg/kg ranges by the i.v. and i.p. routes of administration, 1000 mg/kg or 
more  by  the  s.c.  route  and  2000  to  >  4000  mg/kg  by  the  oral  route.  Signs  of  mild  central  nervous 
system (CNS) depression were observed on the first day after dosing and convulsions were observed 
at lethal doses. After i.v. administration red coloured urine was also observed. The acute oral toxicity 
in the dog was also low where the lethal dose was estimated to be greater than 2000 mg/kg. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
The choice of the rat as rodent species is considered acceptable since alternative species, such as the 
mouse, did not show any kinetic/metabolic advantages. The pharmacokinetic profile in dogs was very 
close  to  that  in  humans  and  since  the  metabolic  patterns  also  were  similar,  the  dog  is  the  most 
appropriate  non-rodent  species.  The  cynomolgus  monkey  and  the  marmoset  are  considered 
inappropriate due to insufficient systemic exposure to the drug. 
Oral administration 
Oral repeated dose toxicity studies were conducted in rats, dogs, and marmosets. Three studies were 
conducted  in  rats  including  a  4-week  gavage  study;  a  4-week  dose  range  finding  study  by  dietary 
admixes  and  a  6-month  study  by  dietary  admix.  Four  studies  were  conducted  in  beagle  dogs  with 
durations  of  4  weeks  (2  studies),  6  months,  and  12  months.  One  4-week  repeated-dose  study  was 
conducted in marmosets. Each of the studies included toxicokinetic evaluations. 
In the 4-week oral gavage study (20, 200, and 2000 mg/kg/day) in rats, bosentan was generally well 
tolerated at doses up to 200 mg/kg/day. Evidence for altered thyroid function (mild thyroid hormone 
imbalance in male rats in which there was a significant increase in T4 levels and thyroid gland weights 
and a trend for increased TSH) and slightly decreased red blood cell (RBC) parameters were observed. 
In the 4-week oral (admix) dose range  finding study (200, 600, and 1500  mg/kg/day), bosentan was 
generally  well  tolerated.  In  the  6-month  oral  (admix)  study  in  rats  (40,  200,  and  1000  mg/kg/day), 
bosentan was well tolerated. Clinical signs were limited to stertorous breathing for female rats at the 
mid dose and for both sexes at the high dose. Body weight gain was decreased for female rats at the 
mid and high doses and food consumption was slightly increased for both sexes at the high dose. In 
bone  marrow  smears  of  high-dose  rats  of  both  sexes,  lymphocytes  were  slightly  decreased  and 
eosinophils  and  basophils  were  slightly  increased.  Liver  weights  of  male  and  female  rats  were 
increased at the high dose, and adrenal gland weights were increased for high-dose female rats. 
In most of the dog studies, a mild decrease in red blood cell (RBC) parameters was observed that may 
be  due  to  the  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  bosentan.  In  addition,  mild  increases  in  alkaline 
phosphatase  (AP)  along  with  increased  liver  weights  and  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  are  compatible 
with the microsomal enzyme inducing properties of the drug in the dog. In a 4-week study conducted 
at very high doses (500 and 1000 mg/kg) increased serum liver enzymes and, histologically, bile duct 
proliferation and single cell necrosis were observed. In the 6-month dog study, no significant toxicity 
was  observed  at  doses  up  to  400  mg/kg.  In  the  12-month  oral  (capsule)  study  in  dogs,  bosentan 
treatment (60, 180, and 500 mg/kg/day) was also generally well tolerated. A mild transient decrease in 
partial  thromboplastin  times  in  mid-  and  high-dose  dogs  and  slightly  decreased  RBC  parameters  in 
high-dose dogs were observed. A minimal increase in alkaline phosphatase (AP) at the mid and high 
dose and a marked increase in serum bile salts at the high dose were observed. The AP isozyme from 
bone decreased in parallel with the increase in AP, indicating another source such as liver as opposed 
to cholestasis. At necropsy, liver and kidney weights were increased in mid- and high-dose male dogs. 
Histopathologically,  mid-dose  dogs  showed  an  increased  yellow  pigment  and  vacuolation  in  the 
gallbladder epithelium and at the high dose increased marginal signs of cholestasis, increased mucus 
6
EMEA 2005 
  
secretion, yellow pigment and vacuolation in gallbladder epithelium, and increased yellow pigment in 
the  kidney  were  observed.  One  female  had  interstitial  fibrosis  in  the  kidney.  Bosentan  and  its 
metabolites were determined in bile and liver specimens of high-dose (500 mg/kg/day) dogs 24 hours 
after  dosing.  Bosentan  did  not  accumulate  with  less  than  0.1%  of  a  daily  dose  retained  in  the  liver; 
however,  high  concentrations  of  bosentan  and  its  three  major  metabolites  were  observed  in  bile.  In 
summary,  histological  changes  indicative  of  a  mild  cholestasis  and  increased  serum  bile  salts  were 
observed at the high dose, most likely as a result of a competitive inhibition of bile salt transport. 
In  a  4-week  oral  toxicity  study  in  marmosets,  the  administration  of  bosentan  (10,  80,  and 
500 mg/kg/day)  was  generally  well  tolerated.  At  the  high  dose,  a  slight  increase  in  the  level  of 
isocitrate  dehydrogenase  was  observed  in  females  and  increased  liver  weights  were  noted  in  male 
marmosets. Following a 4-week recovery period, the isocitrate dehydrogenase levels returned towards 
normal, but the liver weights remained slightly elevated. 
Intravenous administration 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies conducted by the i.v. route with bosentan consisted of a 4-week rat study 
(5, 20, and 40 mg/kg), a 7-day continuous infusion study in dogs (20, 80, and 200 mg/kg), and a 4-
week  i.v.  study  in  marmosets  (5,  20,  or  40  mg/kg).  In  the  rat  study,  gross  and  microscopic  findings 
were limited to local damage at the injection site. Other than a mild decrease in RBC parameters, as 
noted  in  the  other  dog  studies,  no  systemic  toxicity  was  observed  with  bosentan  in  the  dog  or 
marmoset. 
Genotoxicity 
Bosentan  has  no  mutagenic  effect  (Ames,  Gene  mutation  test  in  Chinese  Hamster  V79  cells, 
Unscheduled  DNA  Synthesis  Assay)  and  no  clastogenic  effect  (Micronucleus  test  in  Fu-moro  mice, 
Chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes). 
Carcinogenicity 
Two 2-year carcinogenicity studies were conducted with bosentan in CD-1 mice and Wistar rats along 
with range-finding and toxicokinetic studies. 
An  initial  carcinogenicity  study  was  conducted  in  CD-1  mice,  however  due  to  problems  with 
recording of feed consumption the study was aborted after 29 weeks of treatment. 
A  second  2-year  oral  (dietary  admix)  carcinogenicity  study  was  conducted  with  bosentan  in  CD-1 
mice at doses of 100, 450, 2000, and 4500 mg/kg/day. The high dose of 4500 mg/kg/day was selected 
because  there  was  a  small  increase  in  exposure  to  bosentan  and  its  metabolites  at  this  dose,  which 
represents essentially the maximum feasible dose. There was no effect on survival. At necropsy, there 
was a dose- and treatment-related increase in liver weights in male and female mice at all dose levels. 
An  increased  incidence  of  hepatic  masses  was  observed  in  male  mice  treated  with  bosentan  at  dose 
levels  of  450,  2000,  and  4500 mg/kg/day.  Histopathologically,  a  statistically  significant  moderate 
increase in the combined incidence of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas was observed in male 
mice  at  dose  levels  of  450,  2000  and  4500 mg/kg/day.  There  was  no  increase  in  the  incidence  of 
tumours in female mice or at sites other than liver in male mice. Toxicokinetic monitoring indicated 
that  a  moderately  high  systemic  exposure  to  bosentan  was  achieved.  Exposure  increased  less  than 
dose-proportionally and was higher in females. 
A  two-year  oral  (pelleted  admix)  carcinogenicity  study  was  conducted  in  Wistar  rats  with  bosentan 
administered at dosages of 0 (control 1), 0 (control 2), 125, 500, 2000 and 3000 mg/kg/day. Although 
partial  saturation  of  absorption  was  observed  at  doses  greater  than  500 mg/kg/day,  the  high  dose  of 
3000 mg/kg  was  selected,  which  represents  the  maximum  feasible  dose.  Although  there  was  no 
increase  in  mortality,  there  were  an  increased  number  of  females  without  a  known  cause  of  death. 
After  104  weeks,  there  was  a  treatment-related  significant  increase  in  the  combined  incidence  of 
thyroid  follicular  cell  adenomas  and  carcinomas  in  male  rats  at  the  high  dose  of  3000 mg/kg/day. 
There  was  no  significant  increase  in  the  incidence  of  tumours  in  female  rats  or  at  sites  other  than 
thyroid gland in male rats. Systemic exposure to bosentan increased less than dose-proportionally and 
exposure was higher in females. 
7
EMEA 2005 
 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Fertility  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  with  bosentan  at  doses  up  to  1500  mg/kg/day  (orally)  or  40 
mg/kg/day  (i.v.)  no  effects  were  observed  on  mating  performance  or  fertility,  nor  was  there  any 
adverse  effect  on  the  development  of  the  preimplantation  embryo  or  on  implantation.  Sperm 
parameters  were  assessed  in  both  studies  and  there  were  no  changes  in  sperm  count,  motility  or 
viability or on testes weights. 
Three  modified  embryofoetal-toxicity  studies  in  rats  were  conducted.  In  an  embryofoetal-toxicity 
study in rats, bosentan showed clear dose-dependent teratogenic effects that included variations in the 
arteries  originating  from  the  aorta,  agenesis  of  the  soft  palate  and  craniofacial  bone  abnormalities; 
effects  similar  to  malformations  observed  in  endothelin  knockout  mice.  In  addition,  poor  postnatal 
survival  was  observed  in  pups  from  treated  dams.  A  second  embryofoetal-toxicity  study,  conducted 
with  a  batch  containing  a  higher  level  of  impurities,  did  not  differ  indicating  that  impurities  are  not 
involved in the response. A third study conducted with a litter exchange design indicated that in utero 
effects were responsible for the poor survival of pups. 
In  contrast  to  the  rat,  bosentan  was  not  teratogenic  in  the  pregnant  rabbit  at  doses  up  to  1500 
mg/kg/day, or in an additional high-dose embryofoetal-toxicity study. A toxicokinetic study in rabbits 
revealed  that  the  exposure  to  bosentan  in  the  rabbit  is  much  lower  as  compared  to  rats,  which  may 
explain the lack of teratogenicity in the rabbit. 
Bosentan was also evaluated in two in vitro test systems; one involving explanted mouse palate culture 
and  the  other  the  micro-mass  LBCC.  In  the  mouse  palate  culture  system,  bosentan  resulted  in  a 
concentration-dependent increase in  cleft  palate. In the  micro-mass LBCC, 4 endothelin antagonists, 
including bosentan, were tested. None of the compounds were active in this system. 
No good practice segment III study was performed. 
Local Tolerance 
Evaluation  of  intravascular  tolerability  included  two  local  intra-arterial  tolerability  studies  in  NZW 
rabbits, a single-dose haemolysis study in dogs, and an in vitro haemolysis test in blood from dogs and 
human volunteers. Bosentan formulations produced severe and irreversible arterial damage following 
i.a. administration to NZW rabbits. A single i.v. dose to dogs (30 mg/kg 6% solution) did not produce 
haemolysis. In vitro, no haemolysis was observed in canine or human blood at a concentration of 0.6% 
or lower, partial haemolysis at 1.2%, and total haemolysis at 2.4% or more. 
Primary skin and eye irritation were evaluated in NZW rabbits. Bosentan or Ro 47-0005, an impurity, 
were not irritant to rabbit skin. Bosentan was considered non-irritant for the rabbit eye. 
Immunotoxicity studies 
Antigenicity studies  conducted  in  guinea  pigs  showed  a  weak  immunogenicity  in  a  first  study  (1/10 
animal  positive  for  ASA  and  5/10  animals  positive  for  IgG  antibodies  directed  to  bosentan)  when 
bosentan was injected alone ID with Freund’s adjuvant (30 mg/animal x 3). In addition, when animals 
were  immunized  with  bosentan  linked  to  guinea  pig  serum  albumin  and  challenged  with  bosentan 
alone,  positive  ASA  was  observed  and  anti-bosentan  antibodies  were  present.  In  the  same  study, 
penicillin  alone  or  penicillin  conjugated  to  albumine  was  strongly  positive.  These  results  were  not 
confirmed  in  a  second  study  using  the  same  protocol  and  in  which  ASA,  PCA  and  IgG  antibodies 
directed  to  bosentan  were  evaluated.  The  same  type  of  study  was  conducted  in  mice  and  showed 
negative results. Determination of delayed contact hypersensitivity was evaluated in guinea pigs by the 
Maurer  optimization  test.  Results  showed  that  bosentan  was  positive  in  this  test  when  injected  ID, 
however no positive reactions were found after epicutaneous challenge. One impurity has sensitizing 
properties  when  it  is  used  at  a  50%  concentration  (a  non  irritant  concentration)  in  the  guinea  pig 
sensitization test. This impurity is present at 0,2% in bosentan batches. Finally, treatment of dogs for 
6-months with bosentan did not induce antibody production directed to bosentan. These studies were 
well conducted and do not raise concerns. 
8
EMEA 2005 
 
Other studies 
The  phototoxicity of bosentan was evaluated in an  in vitro 3T3 murine fibroblast neutral red uptake 
assay and in three in vivo studies in hairless rats, one by single i.v. administration, another by single 
oral administration, and a third by single and 14-day oral administration. In vitro, bosentan exhibited 
phototoxic  a  low  potential  with  UVA,  but  not  UVB  irradiation.  In  vivo,  there  was  no  evidence  for 
phototoxicity in hairless rats following single oral bosentan doses up to 2000 mg/kg, single i.v. doses 
of 40 mg/kg, or multiple oral doses of 2000 mg/kg/day for 14 days and subsequent UVA irradiation. 
In  the  human  safety  database,  the  data  do  not  suggest  any  phototoxic  potential.  No  warnings  are 
required regarding potential phototoxicity. 
Impurities/Metabolites 
The main impurities (and % maximum specifications) are Ro 47-4056 (0.3%), Ro 47-0005 (0.2%), Ro 
47-9931 (0.3%). A batch with higher levels of impurities than batches normally used was tested in a 4-
week rat study, a 13-week mouse study, a teratology study in rats, a mutagenicity study in bacteria and 
a  clastogenicity  study  in  mammalian  lymphocytes.  Based  on  the  results  from  these  studies  the 
impurities are considered qualified at the proposed specification levels. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Although  no  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  performed  with  the  therapeutic  recommended  dosage  in 
PAH patients, the kinetic studies provided allow an acceptable estimation of safety margins. It should 
be noticed that in spite of high doses, exposure to the animal are low, clearances being high. This leads 
to small safety margins, especially if one considers that exposure in patients with PAH is expected to 
be higher than in healthy subjects. 
While exposure to Ro  64-1056  metabolite overall  seemed  low  in repeated  dose toxicity studies, this 
metabolite  was  present  and  exposure  was  likely  continuous  up  to  two  years  in  the  carcinogenicity 
studies. 
After  one  year  of  oral  treatment,  the  NOAEL  in  dog  (the  more  representative  species)  has  been 
evaluated at 180 mg/kg/day. In dog, the major target organ is liver. Bosentan produces mild clinical 
manifestations  on  hepatic  functions  such  as  an  increase  of  alkaline  phosphatase,  hepatocellular 
hypertrophy  bile  duct  proliferation.  In  rat  there  were  two  major  target  organs,  liver  (increased  liver 
weights)  and  thyroid  (increased  T4  levels).  Bosentan  and  its  main  biliary  metabolite  seem  to  be 
competitive  inhibitors  of  bile  salt  excretion  at  the  hepatocyte  canalicular  membrane,  resulting  in 
increased  serum  bile  salts  in  rats,  dogs  and  humans.  Cholestasis  is  seen  in  the  rat  and  dog  at  high 
exposures, and is associated with histopathological evidence of hepatocellular damage with increased 
aminotransferase.  Preclinical  data  have  not  evidenced  intrahepatocyte  accumulation  of  bosentan  in 
animals but these results cannot be strictly extrapolated to human. Due to the potential hepatotoxicity, 
liver enzymes should be periodically monitored during treatment. 
Other  drugs  that  also  compete  for  bile  acid  excretion  could  show  an  additive  effect  in  combination 
with bosentan (e.g. oestrogen). An in vivo study to evaluate the effect of each compound alone and of 
the  combination  of  bosentan  and  oestrogens  on  bile  salts  in  rats  is  planned  and  would  contribute  to 
address  the  potential  effect  of  their  concomitant  use  on  bile  salt  pump.  Results  of  this  study  will  be 
submitted as a follow-up measure. 
Red  blood cell parameters  were  decreased in both the  non-clinical and clinical studies.  The changes 
were small in magnitude and might possibly be related to the pharmacodynamic properties of the drug 
in decreasing vascular permeability resulting in haemodilution. 
In rodent carcinogenicity studies, bosentan treatment resulted in  a statistically significant increase in 
the  incidence  of  hepatocellular  tumours  in  male  mice  (adenoma,  carcinoma)  at  doses  from  450 
mg/kg/day and a statistically significant increase in the incidence of thyroid follicular tumours in male 
rats  at  the  high  dose  (3000  mg/kg/day).  There  was  no  increase  in  tumours  in  female  mice  or  rats 
despite  higher  exposures  as  compared  to  males.  In  view  of  lack  of  any  evidence  for  mutagenic  or 
clastogenic effects of bosentan in a comprehensive battery of tests for genotoxicity, it is reasonable to 
assume that the species and sex specific tumours observed are caused by non-genotoxic mechanisms, 
but no endocrine studies or hormone measurements have been performed in animals. In human, there 
was  no  change  in  thyroid  hormone  levels  or  TSH  after  8  days  treatment  in  one  placebo-controlled 
study including 24 healthy volunteers. The liver tumours observed in male mice and the thyroid gland 
9
EMEA 2005 
tumours in male rats may be related to an epigenetic phenomenon without dose/effect relationship. In 
summary, bosentan showed carcinogenic potential. Extrapolation to human remains uncertain. 
No  teratogenic  effect  was  observed  in  rabbit,  but  a  teratogenic  effect  (agenesis  of  soft  palate, 
variations in the arteries originating from the aorta, and craniofacial malformations) has been observed 
in rats for all doses up to 30 mg/kg/day at exposures that could be achieved in humans. The similarity 
of  the  pattern  of  malformations  in  endothelin  receptor  knockout  mice  and  other  endothelin  receptor 
antagonists, indicate that this is a class effect. The lack of response in the rabbit is likely due to much 
lower  exposures  in  rabbits  as  compared  to  rats  since  the  bioavailability  was  lower.  This  precludes 
valid  conclusions  from  the  rabbit  study.  No  conclusions  can  be  drawn  on  the  effect  of  bosentan  on 
development and lactation since no good practice segment III study was performed. 
In  view  of  these  findings,  bosentan  should  be  contraindicated  in  pregnancy  and  appropriate 
precautions should be taken for women of childbearing potential. Milk excretion has not been studied. 
Bosentan is a lipophilic substance for which excretion or even accumulation seems to be highly likely. 
Breast-feeding should be contraindicated during treatment. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The clinical pharmacology programme for bosentan consisted of 26 studies (including a total of 596 
subjects). Of these studies, nine were of an exploratory nature in various indications, the other studies 
investigated 
the 
pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and safety profile of bosentan in healthy volunteers or in special 
patient populations. 
interactions  or  were  conducted 
the  potential  for  drug–drug 
to  establish 
The clinical documentation provided to assess the efficacy and safety of bosentan by the oral route in 
the claimed indication (PAH) consisted of two placebo-controlled studies. Study AC-052-351 included 
21 patients who received bosentan 125 mg b.i.d. (11 patients receiving placebo). Study AC-052-352 
(BREATH-1) included 145 patients who received bosentan at 125 mg b.i.d. (N= 74 patients) or 250 
mg b.i.d. (N=70 patients) and 69 patients who received placebo. Both studies were followed by a non-
controlled  open  label  extension  study.  The  IV  route  PAH  performed  a  supportive  study  in  patients 
with. 
Seven studies were performed in other indications (5 in severe chronic heart failure including the two  
Most studies were performed according to GCP. However, for 3 pharmacokinetic studies performed at 
VanTx,  Switzerland,  GCP  compliance  cannot  be  confirmed.  These  3  studies  were  drug-drug 
interaction  studies  with  ketoconazole  and  losartan  (AC-052-101),  simvastatin  (AC-052-102)  and 
glibenclamide (AC-052-103). The studies were therefore considered as only informative and Actelion 
has performed repeated interaction studies with ketoconacole and simvastatin. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Three  studies  were  performed  in  healthy  volunteers  including  167  young  males  receiving  ascending 
IV or oral doses up to 2400 mg. Bosentan modestly reduced blood pressure and increased pulse rate, 
but only at high doses. An increase in ET-1 levels (up to 3-fold) was seen at higher doses. Big ET-1 
and ET-3 were unaffected, indicating that ET production was not increased and that ET-1 levels were 
increased, possibly due to reduced receptor binding. Bosentan was generally well tolerated. Headache 
was the most common adverse event (AE) and nausea and vomiting occurred at IV doses > 500 mg. 
Elevations  of  liver  enzymes  were  also  reported  at  the  therapeutic  doses.  No  effects  on  ECG  were 
reported. 
Study BD14884 in patients with PAH was initially designed to assess ENABLE trials, 1 in systemic 
hypertension and 1 in subarachnoid haemorrhage). safety and, as a secondary objective, the efficacy, 
pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  single  intravenous  and  multiple  oral  doses  of  bosentan. 
Single  ascending  doses  of  bosentan  were  administered  intravenously  (50 mg/5 min,  150 mg/10 min 
and  300 mg/15 min) at 2-hour intervals. Patients were then  randomised in a  1:1 ratio to receive in  a 
double-blind design, oral doses of bosentan (1000 mg b.i.d) or placebo during 8-weeks. The study was 
10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
prematurely  terminated  after  7  patients  had  been  entered,  due  to  2  deaths.  A  small,  sustained  fall  in 
PAP and PVR was shown, but there was no selectivity for the pulmonary vasculature at doses tested. 
Dose-dependent decreases in blood pressure and an increase in heart rate were observed in association 
with  bosentan  infusion.  Mean  baseline  levels  of  ET-1  were  approx.  2-fold  higher  compared  with 
healthy  controls  and  bosentan  administration  was  associated  with  an  increase  in  plasma  ET-1  (2-3 
fold). Two patients died on day 3. Both were severely ill and had received IV bosentan followed by 
oral placebo. They were non-responders to inhaled nitric oxide. Both deaths were assessed as possibly 
related to bosentan; the cause of death was not clear in one patient, whereas in the other patient it was 
given as cardiac failure due to PAH. A rebound effect cannot be strictly excluded to explain these two 
deaths after high doses of infusion. 
The effects of long-term treatment with Tracleer on ET-1 levels in patients with PAH are unknown. 
New  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  data  in  children  have  become  available  post-
authorisation  as  a  result  of  the  finalisation  of  the  BREATHE-3  Study  (AC-052-356)  –  see  “post-
authorisation” changes later on. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Bosentan was studied at oral doses of 3 to 2400 mg and intravenous doses of 10 to 750 mg. A large 
part of the pharmacokinetic documentation was obtained with doses higher than the doses applied for 
the indication PAH.  
Different  formulations  were  used  in  the  clinical  programme  (oral  solution  early  tablet  formulation, 
ETF, and the formulation intended for marketing, IMF). Bosentan was fairly well absorbed in the dose 
range  applied  for.  Maximum  plasma  concentrations  are  reached  after  about  3  h.  Food  has  a  small 
effect on the rate and extent of absorption of the IMF formulation (Cmax increased with 22% and AUC 
with 10%). Bioequivalence was demonstrated between the IMF and the oral solution, while ETF had a 
lower relative bioavailability. The absolute bioavailability at a 600 mg dose of the oral suspension was 
46%. 
Bosentan  has  a  relatively  small  volume  of  distribution,  about  18  l,  and  is  highly  bound  to  plasma 
proteins, mainly albumin. Protein binding of bosentan was>98%. 
Bosentan  is  eliminated  by  metabolism;  less  than  1%  of  an  i.v.  dose  was  excreted  unchanged  in  the 
urine  and  less  than  4%  in  faeces.  Excretion  of  bosentan  and  its  metabolites  is  primarily  (94.5%)  in 
faeces.  Bosentan  is  metabolised  by  CYP2C9  and  CYP3A4  to  two  primary  metabolites  Ro  48-5033 
(hydroxylation)  and  Ro 47-8634  (demethylation).  Both  these  metabolites  are  further  metabolised  by 
CYP2C9 and/or CYP3A4 to Ro 64-1056. In plasma bosentan, Ro 48-5033 and Ro 47-8634 accounted 
for 67%, 8.3% and 3.1% of drug-related radioactivity, respectively. The major component excreted in 
faeces  was  Ro  48-5033,  accounting  for  65%  of  the  radioactivity.  Ro  48-5033  may  contribute  to  the 
pharmacological effects of bosentan to some extent (up to 20%), but not the other metabolites. 
Bosentan  displays  dose-and  time  dependent  pharmacokinetics.  Clearance  decreases  with  increased 
doses and increases with time. After a single i.v. dose of 250 mg CL was about 8.5 l/h. The terminal 
half-life was about 5 h. After oral administration the AUC seems to increase proportional to dose up to 
about 500 mg. CL/F thereafter increases, which most likely is due to a reduced bioavailability as the 
dose  is  increased.  Thus,  there  is  a  dose  dependency  in  clearance,  which  seems  to  be  of  limited 
importance as exposure is proportional to dose in the therapeutic range after oral administration. Upon 
repeated administration bosentan induces its own metabolism resulting in a reduction of the AUC of 
about 35-50%. The autoinduction is dose dependent and maximum autoinduction seems to have been 
reached after 4-5 days.  
In vitro data suggest that CYP3A4 accounts for 2/3 of the metabolism of bosentan and CYP2C9 1/3, 
but  the  relative  contribution  of  CYP2C9  and  CYP3A4  in  the  metabolism  of  bosentan  in  vivo  is 
unknown.  Concomitant  administration  of  the  CYP3A4  inhibitor  ketoconazole  resulted  in  a  2.2-fold 
increase  in  AUC  and  1.9-fold  increase  in  Cmax.  No  interaction  study  has  been  performed  with  a 
CYP2C9 inhibitor. A more pronounced interaction between a CYP2C9 inhibitor and bosentan than for 
ketokonazole  cannot  be  excluded.  Concomitant  administration  simultaneously  with  an  inhibitor  of 
CYP3A4  and  an  inhibitor  of  CYP2C9  could  lead  to  very  large  increases  in  plasma  exposure  of 
bosentan. The same applies for concurrent use of CYP3A4 inhibitors in poor metabolisers of CYP2C9.  
11 
EMEA 2005 
A major increase in bosentan exposure (30-fold increase in trough concentration) was observed after 
the  first  dose  of  concomitant  CsA  administration.  Upon  repeated  administration  the  bosentan  levels 
decreased  and  were  approximately  3-4-fold  increased  at  steady  state.  The  mechanism  for  this 
interaction  is  unclear  and  the  pharmacokinetic  information  after  the  first  dose  is  limited  to  trough 
concentrations. The co-administration of bosentan and cyclosporine A is contraindicated. 
In vitro studies suggest that bosentan has a low potential to inhibit cytochrome P450 isoenzymes. A 
small  inhibitory  effect  could  be  observed  on  CYP2C9  (Ki  22  µM),  CYP3A4  (Ki  ≈34  µM)  and 
CYP2C8 (Ki ≈46 µM) and no effect on CYP1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2D6, 2C19 and 2E1.  
In vivo interaction studies showed induction of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 after multiple dosing for 4.5-8 
days. AUC of CYP3A4 substrates (simvastatine, cyclosporin A (CsA), R-warfarin) decreased 40-50% 
and of the CYP2C9 substrate S-warfarin about 30%. In vitro studies indicate a possible induction of 
CYP2C19.  A  small  effect  on  digoxin  pharmacokinetics  was  also  observed  with  reductions  of  AUC, 
Cmax and Cmin of 12, 9 and 23%, respectively. This suggests that bosentan may induce P-glycoprotein.  
Bosentan  has  been  shown  to  inhibit  the  bile  salt  export  pump  (Bsep)  in  vitro.  Bosentan  and 
glibenclamide  have  synergistic  effects  on  Bsep  inhibition  in  vitro.  In  a  clinical  trial  high  dose  of 
bosentan  given  concomitantly  with  glibenclamide  resulted  in  an  increased  incidence  of  elevated 
aminotransferase levels. Tracleer and glibenclamide should not be used concomitantly. An alternative 
antidiabetic  medicinal  product  should  be  used  in  patients  in  whom  an  antidiabetic  treatment  is 
indicated.  
Concomitant  administration  with  oestrogen  as  known  to  inhibit  the  bile  salt  pump  has  not  been 
addressed. No interaction study with any kind of contraceptive pill has been performed. Tracleer may 
render hormonal contraceptives ineffective. Bearing in mind that pregnancy may cause life-threatening 
complications in women and that bosentan is teratogenic, hormonal contraceptives cannot be used as 
the  sole  contraceptive  method  and  an  additional  or  an  alternative  reliable  method  of  contraception 
must  be  used.  In  women  of  childbearing  potential,  treatment  with  Tracleer  should  not  be  initiated 
unless  result  of  a  pre-treatment  pregnancy  test  is  negative.  Also,  monthly  pregnancy  tests  are 
recommended during treatment with Tracleer. 
Very  limited  pharmacokinetic  information  from  7  patients  with  PAH  suggests  that  the  exposure  in 
these patients can be expected to be about twice as high as in healthy volunteers.. Patients with CHF 
had on average about 30-40% higher exposure at steady state than healthy volunteers. At the time of 
the initial Marketing Authorisation Application, additional pharmacokinetic data were being collected 
in  ongoing  studies  in  PAH  patients  (AC-052-357  and  AC-052-356  -BREATH-3  in  children).  These 
data have subsequently been provided as FUMs - see “post-authorisation” changes section. 
In  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance  17-27  ml/min),  Cmax  was  about  35% 
lower  and  AUC  about  10%  lower  than  in  healthy  volunteers.  Plasma  concentrations  of  bosentan 
metabolites  increased  about  2-fold  in  these  patients  as  compared  to  subjects  with  normal  renal 
function.  No  dose  adjustment  is  required  in  patients  with  renal  impairment.  There  is  no  specific 
clinical experience in patients undergoing dialysis. Based on physicochemical properties and the high 
degree of protein binding, bosentan is not expected to be removed from the circulation by dialysis. 
A  study  (AC-052-107)  to  assess  the  effect  of  mild  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  class  A)  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of bosentan after single dose and multiple dose administration was conducted. Eight 
patients were included. Pharmacokinetics in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class 
A) are similar to those in healthy volunteers. Steady state AUC of bosentan was 9% higher and AUC 
of  Ro  48-5033  was  33%  higher  in  mild  hepatic  impairment  than  in  healthy  volunteers.  No  dose 
adjustment is needed in patients with mild hepatic impairment. (Tracleer is contraindicated in patients 
with moderate to severe hepatic impairment.) 
No specific studies were performed in order to evaluate the effect of gender, age, weight and race on 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  bosentan.  Pooled  data  from  several  studies  suggested  no  effect  of  age  (in 
adults), weight or race on bosentan pharmacokinetics, but a slightly higher Cmax and AUC in females 
than in males (Cmax was 42% higher and AUC 26%, most likely due to differences in weight). 
12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
Two clinical studies were provided to support the efficacy and safety of bosentan by oral route in the 
claimed indication (PAH): 
- 
- 
A  multicenter  placebo-controlled  trial  (AC-052-351)  including  21  patients  who  received 
bosentan 125 mg b.i.d. (11 patients receiving placebo) for 12 weeks to 28 weeks.  
A larger pivotal multicenter placebo-controlled trial (study AC-052-352; BREATH-1: Bosentan 
randomized  trial  of  endothelin  antagonist  therapy  for  pulmonary  hypertension)  including  145 
patients receiving bosentan at 125 mg b.i.d. (N= 74 patients) or 250 mg b.i.d. (N=70 patients), 
for 16 weeks to 28 weeks. 
In both trials, the study drugs were added to the patient’s existing PAH therapy, but patients treated 
with IV prostacycline within 3 months were not included. 
After  4  weeks  with  62.5  mg  bid,  the  posology  was  increased  to  the  maintenance  dose  (i.e.  125  mg 
b.i.d. in study AC-052-351; 125 mg b.i.d. or 250 mg b.i.d; in study AC-052-352). Both studies were 
followed by a non-controlled open label extension study. 
On behalf of the EMEA, a GCP inspection of the multicentre, phase III, clinical trial AC-052-352 was 
performed.  Compliance  with  the  protocol  and  GCP  appeared  to  be  satisfactory  and  the  data  quality 
was acceptable. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
Dose response study 
Pharmacodynamic  and  dose-finding  studies  in  patients  with  PAH  are  virtually  lacking  and  the 
proposed  starting  dose, titration scheme and  maintenance  dose are  based  on  experience gained from 
studies of bosentan in CHF and hypertension. No formal dose-response study has been conducted with 
oral bosentan in patients with pulmonary hypertension (PH). 
Main studies  
Study AC-052-351 
This  study  was  a  multicenter,  double  blind,  randomized,  placebo-controlled  study  to  evaluate  the 
effects of bosentan given orally twice daily for at least 12 weeks to ambulatory adult outpatients with 
PAH whether or not secondary to scleroderma (SSc/PHT), but without moderate to severe interstitial 
disease. 
Patients were randomised in a 2:1 ratio to bosentan 62.5 mg b.i.d. or placebo. After 4 weeks, dosages 
were up titrated to bosentan 125 mg b.i.d. or placebo. The study was completed when the last enrolled 
patient,  not  prematurely  withdrawn,  had  completed  week  12  assessments.  Since  the  study  continued 
until that time, included patients go on receiving double- blind study treatment (bosentan 125 mg b.i.d. 
or placebo) after 12 weeks for varying lengths of time (period II) until the study was completed. 
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  effect  of  bosentan  on  exercise  capacity  assessed  by  change  from 
baseline to Week 12 in the distance walked by patients in 6 minutes (6-minute walk test). Comparison 
between  placebo  and  bosentan  was  performed  using  a  one-sided  Student’s  t-test  at  the  5%  level  of 
significance. The study sample size was calculated under the assumption of an expected difference of 
50 m (SD= 50m) on the primary outcome. Thirty patients in total were estimated to be sufficient. 
Secondary efficacy criteria included: 
- 
Central  haemodynamic  parameters  (Pulmonary  arterial  pressures  (PAP),  Pulmonary  vascular 
resistance  (PVR),  Mean  right  atrial  pressure  (RAP),  Pulmonary  capillary  wedge  pressure 
(PCWP), Cardiac index (CI), Systemic vascular resistance (SVR)), 
Time from randomization to clinical worsening (clinical worsening was defined as death from 
all causes, lung trans-plantation or discontinuation of therapy due to clinical deterioration), 
Clinical parameters (Borg Dyspnea Index, WHO Functional Class), 
Change  from  baseline  to  week  12  in  Raynaud’s  Symptoms  (in  the  sub-population  of  patients 
with Raynaud’s phenomenon secondary to systemic sclerosis), 
And safety parameters. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
13 
EMEA 2005 
 
Demographics and baseline characteristics of patients 
Thirty-two patients were enrolled. 21 patients received bosentan and 11 received placebo. All patients 
were in WHO functional Class III of pulmonary hypertension. Patients had mainly primary PAH (only 
4 patients with systemic sclerosis received bosentan, one patient received placebo). As expected in a 
PAH trial more females than males were included and all 4 males were assigned to bosentan group.  
Results 
to  epoprostenol.  No  bosentan  patients  were  withdrawn,  died,  underwent 
Three placebo patients were prematurely withdrawn because of clinical worsening of PAH and were 
lung 
transferred 
transplantation or discontinued study medications during the period of the trial. 
At the time the study was completed, the duration of bosentan treatment ranged from 51 to 202 days. 
20  patients  among  the  21  bosentan-treated  patients  had  reached  week-20  assessment,  6  of  them 
reached the Week-28 assessment. 
A  significant  improvement  of  exercise  capacity  (assessed  by  the  6-minute  walk  test  as  primary  end 
point) has been shown after 12 weeks treatment at the posology of 125 mg bid (See table below). 
Study AC-052-351 - Change in walk test from baseline to Week 12 (ITT population) 
Placebo (n = 11) 
Bosentan (n = 21) 
360.5 ± 86.1 
380.0 (218, 483) 
430.5 ± 66.4  
431.0 (294, 535) 
355.5 ± 81.8 
405.5 (218.5, 437) 
Total walk distance (m) 
Baseline Value (Visit 2) 
  Mean ± SD 
  Median (Min, Max) 
Week 12 Valuea 
  Mean ± SD 
  Median (Min, Max) 
Change from BL at Week 12 
  Mean ± SD 
  95% CL of mean 
  Median (Min, Max) 
  95% CL of median 
Absolute Difference from Placebo 
(bosentan effect) 
  Mean ± SEM 
  95% CL of mean 
  Median (95% CL of median) 
  p-valueb 
a  For one bosentan (patient n°10110) and one placebo patient (n°10503), a missing Week-12 assessment was replaced 
-5.8 ± 120.5 
-86.8, 75.2 
-6.0 (-267.5, 224.5) 
-83.5, 60.0 
75.9 ± 31.0  
12.5, 139.2 
59.0 (13.2, 130.3) 
0.0205 (0.0190) 
70.1 ± 56.2 
44.5, 95.6 
51.0 (-24.5, 196) 
35.0, 113.5 
349.6 ± 147.1 
399.0 (0, 497) 
using the last value carried forward (day 74 and  34 respecyively) . 
  One placebo patient (n°20101) withdrew from the study without a valid end-of-study assessment, and a “worst case” (0 
m) was substituted for the Week-12 assessment. 
b  Determined by Student’s t-test, two-sided (Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney U-test). 
BL= baseline; CL = confidence limit; SD = standard deviation; SE = standard error. 
Haemodynamics  improved  at  12  weeks  in  the  bosentan  treated  patients  (see  table  below).  There  were  no  cases  of  clinical  worsening  in 
patients  receiving  bosentan  treatment  during  the  course  of  the  study  whereas  three  placebo-patients  were  transferred  to  epoprostenol  for 
clinical worsening. After 12 weeks of double-blind treatment, mean scores assessed with the Borg dyspnoea index (0-10 scale) for maximal 
dyspnea during the 6-minute walk test showed a trend to amelioration in the bosentan group. No difference in mortality rate was observed. 
The short duration of the study as compared to the life expectancy in patients with functional status Class III that is expected to be longer 
than 12 weeks, precludes any conclusion on effect of bosentan on survival.  
14 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from Baseline to Week 12 in Haemodynamic Parameters in Study AC-052-351 (ITT Population) 
Haemodynamic 
Parameter 
Mean PAP (mmHg) 
  Baseline Value 
  Change from BL 
Bosentan 
(n = 20) 
53.7 ± 3.0 
–1.6 ± 1.2 
Placebo 
(n = 10) 
55.7 ± 3.3 
5.1 ± 2.8 
  % Change from BL 
–2.5 ± 2.4 
9.4 ± 5.0 
PVR (dyn·sec/cm5)  
  Baseline Value 
  Change from BL 
896 ± 97  
–223 ± 56 
942 ± 136 
191 ± 74 
  % Change from BL 
–19.9 ± 4.8 
27.1 ± 10.7 
Mean RAP (mmHg) 
  Baseline Value 
  Change from BL 
9.7 ± 1.3 b 
–1.3 ± 0.9 
9.9 ± 1.3 
4.9 ± 1.5 
9.3 ± 0.6 b 
0.1 ± 0.8 
8.3 ± 1.1 
3.9 ± 1.8 
Treatment Difference 
Mean (95% CL) 
p-value 
–6.7  
(–11.9, -.5) 
0.0134 
–415  
(-608, -221) 
0.0002 
–6.2  
(-9.6, -2.7) 
0.0010 
–3.8  
(-7.3, -0.3) 
0.0353 
PCWP (mmHg) 
  Baseline Value 
  Change from BL 
Cardiac index 
(l/min/m2) 
  Baseline 
  Change from BL 
2.35 ± 0.16 
0.50 ± 0.10 
2.48 ± 0.33 
–0.52 ± 0.15 
1.02 
 (0.65, 1.39) 
<0.0001 
  % Change from BL 
Values are mean ± standard error.   
BL = baseline; CL = confidence limit; PAP = pulmonary arterial pressure; PCWP = pulmonary capillary wedge 
pressure; RAP = right atrial pressure; PVR = pulmonary vascular resistance. 
–-19.9 ± 5.9 
26.4 ± 5.7 
Study AC-052-352 
This  study  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double  blind,  placebo-controlled  study  with  3  parallel 
groups  (placebo,  bosentan  125  mg,  bosentan  250  mg).  It  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  effects  of 
bosentan 125 mg or 250 mg on change in walking distance when given for at least 16 weeks up to 28 
weeks to ambulatory outpatients aged 12 years or more, with PAH either as PPH, or as a complication 
of  connective  tissue  diseases  (e.g.,  scleroderma,  systemic  lupus  erythematosus).  The  design  was 
similar to the previous study. 144 patients received bosentan at 125 mg b.i.d. (N= 74 patients) or 250 
mg  b.i.d.  (N=70  patients)  and  69  patients  received  placebo.  All  bosentan  patients  received 
62.5 mg b.i.d.  during  the  first  4 weeks  of  the  study  and  then  were  up  titrated  to  the  target  dose 
(125 mg b.i.d. or 250 mg b.i.d.). The primary efficacy criteria were change from baseline to Week 16 
in exercise capacity as assessed by the 6-minute walk test. 
Baseline characteristics: 
Most of the included patients (92 %) were in WHO class III (130 in the bosentan groups and 65 in the 
placebo group). 18 patients were in WHO class IV (bosentan 14 and placebo 4). 
Most of the included patients had PAH (102 receiving bosentan; 48 receiving placebo): 33 patients of 
the  bosentan  groups  had  PAH  related  to  scleroderma  (14  patients  in  the  placebo  group),  16  patients 
were coded with etiology as “other” and8 patients (5 in the bosentan group and 3 in the placebo group) 
were  assigned  systemic  lupus  erythematosus  as  primary  aetiology.  Other  connective  tissue  diseases 
were represented by mixed (4 patients), unclassified (2 patients), and polyarteritis nodosa (1 patient). 
In one patient, PAH was secondary to chronic thromboembolic disease.  
15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As expected  in  PAH  most patients  were female (79.2% and  78.3% in  bosentan and  placebo  groups, 
respectively). 
Results 
An improvement of exercise capacity (6 minute-walk test) from baseline was shown after 16 weeks in 
bosentan groups; the mean increase from baseline was 36.4 meters [95% CI 24.9 meters, 47.8 meters]. 
A significant treatment effect as compared to placebo was shown; + 44.2 meter [95% CI: 21.4 meters, 
67.0 meters] (p=0.0002). Results are detailed in the table below. The mean treatment effect was lower 
than observed in the previous trial (AC-052-351) but remained significant. 
The dose-response relation (125 mg b.i.d vs 250 mg b.i.d.) has been analysed only descriptively. The 
increase in walk distance appeared to be dose related, since the mean increased in the 6-minute walk 
distance  observed  in  the  250  mg  b.i.d.  group  was  larger  than  in  the  125  mg  b.i.d.  group  but  the 
confidence  interval  limits  overlapped  at  Week  8  and  week  16  time-points.  The  posology  of  125  mg 
b.i.d.  is  therefore  recommended  as  the  maintenance  dose.  Nevertheless,  although  statistical 
significance was not demonstrated between the two doses, it cannot be excluded that some patients not 
responding well to 125 mg may slightly improve their exercise capacity with 250 mg twice daily. 
Study AC-052-352 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Walk test (m)
Bosentan
125 mg
N=74
Bosentan
250 mg
N=70
All
Bosentan
N=144
Placebo
N=69
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Baseline Value (m)
Mean ± SD
95% CL of mean
Median
95% CL of median
Min , Max
326.3 ± 73.2
309.3 , 343.2
333.0
306.5 , 357.5
159.0 , 464.5
333.0 ± 75.4
315.0 , 351.0
338.8
316.0 , 369.0
173.5 , 440.0
329.6 ± 74.1
317.4 , 341.8
337.3
320.0 , 357.0
159.0 , 464.5
344.3 ± 76.4
326.0 , 362.7
359.0
344.0 , 382.5
150.0 , 448.5
Week 16 value (m)
Mean ± SD
CL of mean
Median
95% CL of median
Min , Max
353.1 ± 115.0
326.4 , 379.7
376.5
338.0 , 396.0
0.0 , 602.0
379.5 ± 101.2
355.3 , 403.6
384.5
363.0 , 417.0
57.0 , 555.0
365.9 ± 109
348.0 , 383.9
379.5
363.0 , 396.0
0.0 , 602.0
336.5 ± 129.2
305.4 , 367.5
355.0
333.0 , 378.0
0.0 , 585.0
Change from baseline at Week 16
26.8 ± 75.3
9.3 , 44.2
Mean ± SD
95% CL of mean
Median
95% CL of median
Min , Max
-7.8 ± 96.1
-30.9 , 15.2
9.0
-18.0 , 26.0
-383.0 , 227.5
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bosentan EFFECT
(absolute difference from placebo)
46.5 ± 69.5
31.7 , 61.2
49.8
19.5 , 66.0
-131.0 , 257.5
36.4 ± 61.7
24.9 , 47.8
4.5
26.0 , 48.5
-205.0 , 257.5
32.8
19.5 , 40.0
-205.0 , 214.0
Mean
95% CL of mean
Median
95% CL of median
6.2 , 63.1
34.6
28.2
7.5 , 51.5
54.3
27.3 , 81.4
45.0
23.1 , 67.1
44.2
21.4 , 67.0
36.7
17.9 , 55.9
p-value Mann-Whitney U-test (0.0107)*
(0.0001)*
0.0002
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Exploratory analysis. 
CL=confidence limits, ITT=intent to treat. 
In a retrospective responder analysis based on change in walking distance, WHO functional class and 
dyspnoea of the 95 patients randomised to Tracleer 125 mg bid in the placebo controlled trials it was 
found  that  at  week  8,  66  patients  had  improved,  22  were  stable  and  7  had  deteriorated.  Of  the  22 
patients stable at week 8, 6 improved at week 12/16 and 4 deteriorated as compared to baseline value. 
Of the 7 patients that deteriorated at week 8, 3 improved at week 12/16 and 4 deteriorated compared 
with baseline. 
Secondary  efficacy  parameters  were  descriptively  analysed.  Patients  on  bosentan  showed  a  slight 
decrease in maximal dyspnoea on exercise (Borg Dyspnoea Index), Central haemodynamic parameters 
were  not  assessed  during  this  study.  Treatment  with  Tracleer  led  to  a  WHO  functional  class 
improvement  in  42.4%  of  patients  (placebo  30.4%).  A  significant  reduction  in  the  rate  of  clinical 
worsening  was  observed  as  compared  with  placebo  at  28 weeks  (10.7%  vs  37.1%,  respectively; 
p = 0.0015). 
Only  14  patients  with  grade  IV  functional  status  received  bosentan  among  the  130  patients  (11%) 
included in study AC-052-352. The sub-population analysis performed by the applicant with respect to 
16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
the severity of patients’ functional status showed a weak effect in patients with grade IV. Change from 
baseline in the 6 minute walk test was weak (mean of – 2.0 meters [95 % CL: – 46.2 and 42.2 meters]. 
Most  of  them  were  stabilised  or  deteriorated;  of  the  14  class  IV  patients  at  baseline,  5  remained  in 
class IV, 6 improved to class III and 3 to class II. 
A sub analysis with respect to aetiology showed that absolute values in change from baseline of the 
primary end point were higher in PAH patients than in patients with PAH due to scleroderma but the 
placebo-corrected treatment effect remained significant. Bosentan cannot be recommended to improve 
patients with moderate to severe interstitial disease. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
At  the  time  of  the  initial  MAA  no  studies  were  available  in  children  less  than  12  years.  New 
pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic data in children have become available post-authorisation as a 
result of the finalisation of the BREATHE-3 Study (AC-052-356) – see “post-authorisation” changes 
later on. 
Long-term data 
The  two  placebo-controlled  studies  previously  described  were  followed  by  open  label  extension 
studies (AC-052-353 and AC-052-354) in which 29 and 198 patients respectively received bosentan. 
Only interim reports were provided since these studies are ongoing.  
At the clinical cut-off date of study (AC-052-353) (31 March 2001), the exposure to bosentan ranged 
from 15 weeks to 85 weeks (21 months). No patients have died during the reported period. 28 patients 
have  been  treated  with  bosentan  for  about  1  year  or  more  and  5  patients  for  more  than  1.5 years. 
Among  the  29  patients  included,  3  patients  have  been  up-titrated  to  250  mg  because  of  clinical 
deterioration  after  more  than  16  months  treatment,  one  patient  has  been  transferred  to  epoprostenol 
after  about  3.5  months  because  of  deterioration  and  non  compliance  to  bosentan  treatment.  After  6 
months of treatment in the open-label trial, 13/29 patients were considered improved (i.e., 12 grade III 
patients at baseline was improved to grade II and one to grade I functional status). 5 of the 29 patients 
had  a  decrease  in  their  6-minute  walk  test  distance  after  about  1  year  of  treatment  with  the  125 mg 
b.i.d. dose of Tracleer. In those 5 patients, an increase in the dose of Tracleer to 250 mg b.i.d. resulted 
in  an  improvement  in  the  walk  distance  in  all  5  patients  at  1–2  months  after  increasing  the  dose. 
According to the applicant, after 7–9 months of treatment with the 250 mg b.i.d dose no increase in 
liver aminotransferases has been observed in these patients.  
At the clinical cut-off date of the second Study AC-052-354 (31 May 2001), the exposure to bosentan 
ranged from 3.5 months to 11 months (i.e. 13 weeks to 44 weeks). 100 patients have been treated for 
more than 6 months, and 12 patients have been treated for more than 9 months. 3 patients have died 
(pulmonary haemorrhage, multi-organ failure, and haemoptysis/hypovolaemic shock). 8 more patients 
have  had  treatment  discontinued  for  adverse  events  (6 for  elevated  liver  aminotransferases,  one 
because of anaemia and one because of gastrointestinal haemorrhage). Six patients have been put on 
concomitant  epoprostenol  and  bosentan;  five  of  these  patients  have  improved,  and  one  died  (multi-
organ failure). 66/195 grade III patients at baseline were improved (60 to grade II, 6 to grade II). 11/18 
grade IV patients at baseline were improved (7 to grade III, 3 to grade II, 1 to grade 1). 
Supportive studies 
Study AC-052-355 (BREATHE-2) has been submitted post-authorisation (see see “post-authorisation 
changes”). 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Based on the results of the two trials provided in PAH, bosentan showed a significant improvement in 
exercise capacity and symptoms in patients with primary PAH and secondary pulmonary hypertension 
related to scleroderma with grade III functional status (WHO classification). The results support that 
bosentan  beneficially  affects  quality  of  life  by  improving  exercise  capacity  and  symptoms  in  these 
patients but the available data are not sufficient to support survival improvement. The duration of both 
randomised studies is too short to support a benefit on survival. Indeed, the life expectancy of included 
patients with grade III functional status is longer than 16 weeks. No difference in mortality rate was 
shown as compared to placebo groups. 
17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
Data  support  a  maintenance  dose  of  125  mg  twice  daily.  Based  on  the  (non  statistically  significant) 
dose-response  relation  (125  mg  bid  vs  250  mg  bid)  in  study  AC-052-352  and  data  from  open-label 
extension study, although the safety margin of bosentan is small, the benefit/risk ratio of 250 mg bid 
may remain favourable in patients showing a decrease of their clinical response to bosentan 125 mg 
b.i.d. Taking into account restricted availability of other medicinal products in PAH, the benefit/risk 
ratio of 250 mg may be acceptable in patients with late deterioration despite treatment with Tracleer at 
125 mg bid, since it may improve their quality of life, provided that appropriate warning are stated in 
the summary of product characteristics and to ensure that patients will be adequately monitored. 
There is limited experience in patients with a body weight below 40 kg (only 2 patients were included 
in the clinical trials). 
Most responders will be  detected at week  8 after initiation of bosentan. However, some patients not 
responding at week 8 might improve at week 16. In the case of clinical deterioration (e.g. decrease in 
6-minute walk test distance by at least 10% compared with pre-treatment measurement) after 8 weeks 
of treatment (i.e. target dose for at least 4 weeks), alternative therapies should be considered. 
No data are available in those  patients with PAH secondary to scleroderma with  moderate to severe 
interstitial  disease  since  those  patients  were  excluded  at  the  screening  visit.  The  benefit  in  those 
patients  could  indeed  be  expected  to  be  limited.  Regarding  PAH  secondary  to  scleroderma  the 
indication  should  be  restricted  to  patients  without  interstitial  disease.  Moreover,  the  SPC  should 
mention that no studies have been performed in secondary PAH other than related to connective tissue 
disease i.e. primarily scleroderma (e.g. AIDS). 
No grade I or II patients were included. There is no evidence of benefit of bosentan when it is started 
at early stages of the disease as compared to conventional therapy. 
Only  14  patients  with  grade  IV  functional  status  received  bosentan  in  study  AC-052-352.  The  sub-
population  analysis  performed  by  the  applicant  with  respect  to  the  severity  of  patients’  functional 
status  showed  a  weak  effect  in  patients  with  grade  IV.  It  is  emphasised  that  patients  requiring 
epoprostenol at short term have been excluded at the screening visit. Epoprostenol has demonstrated 
benefit on survival in patients with grade IV functional status. They will be improved to a larger extent 
with  epoprostenol.  Bosentan  may  not  be  appropriate  in  the  larger  proportion  of  grade  IV  patients. 
Overall, in those patients with severe conditions and short life expectancy, there is no reason to delay 
epoprostenol  treatment  which  will  provide  a  larger  improvement  in  symptoms  and  which  has 
demonstrated  effect  on  survival.  Data  do  not  support  the  use  of  bosentan  in  patients  with  grade  IV 
functional status. 
No  relevant  data  are  available  on  the  combination  with  epoprostenol.  The  applicant  foresees  to 
perform  2  studies  (AC-052-355/BREATH-2  and  AC-052-356/BREATH-3)  designed  to  provide 
further information in this context (these studies have subsequently been submitted and are discussed 
in the “post-authorisation” section). Therefore, the SPC should state there is no evidence at this time to 
recommend this combination. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The  bosentan  safety  database  includes  a  mixture  of  patients  with  4  different  diseases  (PAH,  CHF, 
systemic hypertension and subarachnoid haemorrhage). Data from these studies related to over 2400 
patients and 300 healthy volunteers. 
In the claimed indication, PAH, data from 2 randomised studies including 29 and 145 patients treated 
with bosentan respectively were available. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
None of the reported deaths have been considered related to study medication but rather to progression 
of the treated or concomitant disease. 
18 
EMEA 2005 
 
All placebo-controlled trials 
In  eight  placebo-controlled  studies,  six  of  which  were  for  indications  other  than  PAH,  a  total  of 
677 patients  were  treated  with  bosentan  at  daily  doses  ranging  from  100 mg  to  2000 mg  and 
288 patients  were  treated  with  placebo.  The  foreseen  duration  of  treatment  ranged  from  2 weeks  to 
6 months.  The  adverse  drug  reactions  (ADRs)  that  occurred  more  frequently  on  bosentan  than  on 
placebo (≥ 3% of bosentan-treated patients, with ≥ 2% difference) were headache (15.8% vs 12.8%), 
flushing (6.6% vs 1.7%), abnormal hepatic function (5.9% vs 2.1%), leg oedema (4.7% vs 1.4%), and 
anaemia (3.4% vs 1.0%), all of which were dose related.  
Placebo-controlled trials in pulmonary arterial hypertension 
The  table  below  shows  the  ADRs  that  occurred  in  ≥ 3%  of  patients  treated  with  Tracleer  (125  and 
250 mg  twice  daily)  in  placebo-controlled  trials  in  PAH,  and  which  were  more  frequent  in  these 
patients: 
Adverse drug reactions occurring in ≥ 3% of patients, and more frequently in patients on Tracleer (125 
and 250 mg twice daily), in placebo-controlled trials in pulmonary arterial hypertension 
Body system / Adverse event 
Placebo 
N = 80 
No.        % 
Tracleer (all)  
N = 165 
No.        % 
20         12% 
18         11% 
 5            3% 
13           8% 
 8            5% 
 7            4% 
 4          5% 
 1          1% 
 2          3% 
 9         11% 
 6           8% 
 1           1% 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
  Upper respiratory tract infection  
  Nasopharyngitis  
  Pneumonia  
Cardiac disorders 
  Oedema lower limb 
  Palpitations   
  Oedema  
Gastrointestinal disorders 
  Dyspepsia         
  Dry mouth  
Nervous system disorders 
  Headache  
Vascular disorders 
  Flushing 
  Hypotension  
Skin & subcutaneous tissue disorders 
  Pruritus     
General disorders and administration site conditions 
  Fatigue 
Hepato-biliary disorders 
  Hepatic function abnormal  
Note: only AEs with onset from start of treatment to 1 calendar day after end of treatment are 
included. One  
patient could have had more than one AE. 
 4           5%  
 3           4%  
          –  
 1           1% 
 2           3%   
 1           1%  
16        20% 
           –  
36         22% 
15           9% 
11           7% 
 7            4% 
 5            3% 
14           8% 
 6            4% 
 6           4% 
At the recommended maintenance dose or double the dose (i.e., 125 or 250 mg twice daily) the ADRs 
that occurred  more frequently with Tracleer than  with placebo (in ≥ 3%  of Tracleer-treated patients, 
with  ≥ 2%  difference)  were  nasopharyngitis,  flushing,  abnormal  hepatic  function,  leg  oedema, 
hypotension,  palpitations,  dyspepsia, fatigue and  pruritus.  ADRs  that  occurred  in  ≥ 1%  and  < 3%  of 
these  patients  and  more  frequently  on  Tracleer  than  on  placebo  (≥ 2%  difference)  were  anaemia, 
gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and rectal haemorrhage, all 2.4% on Tracleer versus 0% on placebo.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Treatment discontinuations due to AEs, during the clinical trials in patients with PAH, at doses of 125 
and 250 mg twice daily, were less frequent in Tracleer than in placebo-treated patients (5.5% vs 10%, 
respectively).  In study AC-052-351, no  patients treated with bonsentan discontinued  prematurely. In 
study  AC-052-352,  premature  discontinuations  due  to  AEs  were  more  frequently  due  to  abnormal 
hepatic  function  in  the  bosentan  group  (2.1%  vs.  none  with  placebo),  and  aggravated  pulmonary 
hypertension (1.4% vs. 5.8%, respectively) and to syncope (0.0% vs.2.9%) in the placebo group. 
19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
Decrease in haemoglobin was frequent (more than 50% of bosentan-patients experienced a decrease 
of  at  least  1  g/dl)  but  these  changes  are  usually  mild  to  moderate  in  intensity  since  haemoglobin 
concentration  remained  within  normal  limits  in  most  patients  and  a  marked  decrease  (≥  15%  from 
baseline  to  <  11  g/dl)  was  observed  only  in  few  bosentan-patients  (5.6%).  In  the  trials,  decrease  in 
haemoglobin  occurred  during  the  first  weeks  of  treatment  and  then  remained  stable.  Although  the 
outcomes were mainly favourable, some patients needed blood transfusions (12/36 bosentan-patients 
who  experienced  a  marked  decrease  in  haemoglobin  concentration).  Based  on  the  integrated  safety 
summary, marked decrease in haematocrit was reported in 41/492 (8.3%) bosentan-patients and 6/204 
(2.9%) placebo-patients in placebo-controlled studies. Decrease in hemoglobin was not paralleled by 
changes in leucocytes, platelets, bilirubin or reticulocytes, indicating the absence of hemolysis or bone 
marrow depression. No risk of bleeding was found. Nevertheless, few investigations were performed: 
only 2 biopsies performed in CHF patients, no results of reticulocyte count, no erythropoietin values. 
The most likely cause is vasodilatation and subsequent and fluid shift producing hemodilution. This is 
well matched with the mechanism of action of bosentan and consistent with preclinical data (i.e. rats). 
Hepatotoxicity:  A  major  safety  concern  is  the  dose  related  increase  in  liver  transaminases:  bosentan 
has been associated with frequent dose-related elevations in liver aminotransferases, i.e., aspartate and 
alanine aminotransferase. 
In the pool of placebo-controlled studies, 74/658  patients experienced these laboratory abnormalities 
(11.2% versus 1.8% among placebo-patients). Elevations in liver transaminases appeared to be dose-
related until 250-500 mg/day. 6.8% of bosentan-patients experienced increase ≥ 5×ULN and 3.2% of 
them experienced increase ≥ 10×ULN. In addition, in an ongoing blinded study in patients with CHF 
(ENABLE, AC-052-301/302), 0.3% of patients experienced increase ≥ 20×ULN. The REACH-1 trial 
(in  CHF)  which  was  conducted  with  high  doses,  was  prematurely  stopped  because  of  the  high 
incidence  of  elevated  liver  transaminases  >  3×ULN  (15.6%  of  bosentan-patients  including  5.7%  of 
patients with an increase ≥ 8×ULN). The time to onset was delayed: in about 90% of cases, the first 
elevation  in  transaminases  was  detected  during  the  first  16  weeks  of  bosentan  treatment  and  most 
cases  occurred  between  the  4th  and  the  12th  week  of  treatment.  In  all  cases  during  the  clinical 
programme, enzyme returned to pre-treatment levels without sequelae, within a few days to 9 weeks, 
either  spontaneously  or  after  dose  reduction  or  discontinuation.  In  most  cases  observed  during  the 
placebo-controlled studies, liver laboratory abnormalities were asymptomatic, no case of liver failure, 
liver transplant or death due to fulminant hepatitis were reported. However, associated symptoms that 
could  indicate  liver  dysfunction  were  temporarily  reported  in  9  patients:  abdominal  pain, 
nausea/vomiting  or  fever.  In  addition,  elevated  bilirubin  and/or  jaundice  were  reported  in  2  patients 
and pruritic rash in another patient (considered related to atorvastatin). 
The  mechanism  of  hepatotoxicity  remains  unclear  as  few  experimental  data  are  available.  Bosentan 
has  been  shown  to  inhibit  in  vitro  the  canalicular  bile  salt  export  pump  (Bsep).  Hepatocellular  liver 
injuries without cholestatic features were however observed in about 50 % of cases with elevated liver 
amino transferases. As proposed by the applicant, some cases could be explained by the bile salt pump 
inhibition (i.e. when bile acids is accumulated in hepatocytes), but other mechanisms of hepatotoxicity 
cannot  be  excluded;  namely  immunological  reactions  or  intrahepatocyte  accumulation  of  bosentan 
and/or metabolites (as suggested by the delayed time to onset). Clinical investigations are insufficient 
to  allow  reliable  conclusions;  antibodies  have  only  been  measured  in  three  patients,  only  one  liver 
biopsy is available (showing granuloma and mild to moderate hepatocellular necrosis), and no direct 
human  intrahepatocyte  measurements  of  bosentan  or  metabolites  have  been  performed  to  exclude 
intrahepatocyte accumulation. Effect of bosentan on mitochondria is unknown. Hepatic events cannot 
be  definitively  explained  only  by  the  bile  salt  pump  inhibition.  Moreover,  liver  injury  risk  may  be 
increased when Tracleer is used with product that inhibit bile salt pump, e.g. rifampicine. 
As  a  consequence,  recommendations  for  monitoring  of  the  hepatic  function  during  treatment  with 
Tracleer  have  been  defined  (in  accordance  with  the  protocol  of  the  clinical  studies  performed). 
Aminotransferases  should  be  measured  prior  to  initiation  of  treatment  and  monitored  at  least  every 
month.  Bosentan  should  not  be  initiated  in  patients  with  liver  aminotransferase  (AST/ALT)  greater 
than 3 times the upper limit of normal. The dose should be reduced in case of increase between 3 and 
5 times the upper limit of normal. The treatment should be discontinued when enzyme increase over 5 
20 
EMEA 2005 
time the normal limit. In case of re-introduction of bosentan is considered, the advice of a hepatologist 
is  recommended.  After  discontinuation  for  liver  dysfunction,  re-introduction  of  bosentan  is  not 
recommended when ALT/AST levels elevation were higher than 8 time upper limit of normal. In case 
of  clinical  symptoms  of  liver  injury  i.e.  nausea,  vomiting,  fever,  abdominal  pain,  jaundice,  unusual 
lethargy or fatigue, flue like syndrome (arthralgia, myalgia, fever) treatment must be stopped and re-
introduction is not to be considered. 
Safety in special populations 
Pregnancy:  in  the  context  of  pulmonary  arterial  hypertension,  pregnancy  must  be  avoided  since  it 
leads to cardiovascular stress with harmful consequences to pregnant women. Moreover, a teratogenic 
effect has been shown in animal studies, therefore bosentan is contraindicated during pregnancy and in 
women of childbearing potential not using reliable contraception. Bosentan should not be initiated in 
women of childbearing unless the result of the pre-treatment pregnancy test is negative. Bosentan is an 
inducer of CYP450 and may render oral contraceptives ineffective. Consequently, oral contraceptive 
should not be used as the sole method of contraception in women. Additional or an alternative reliable 
method of contraception is recommended. Repeated monthly pregnancy tests are recommended. 
Little  experience  is  available  in  patients  with  systolic  blood  pressure  (SBP)  lower  than  100  mmHg 
since patients with SBP < 85  mmHg at baseline were excluded from the studies. As a precaution, it 
must  be  recommended  that  blood  pressure  should  be  higher  than  85  mmHg  before  initiation  of 
bosentan. Moreover, based on kinetic data, the initiation period should never be shorter than one week 
since steady state is never reached before this period. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Based on the integrated safety database and the study AC-052-352, the adverse reactions in patients 
with  PAH  receiving  bosentan  were  mostly  related  to  vasodilatory  effects  such  as  flush,  headache, 
syncope and lower limb oedema. Most of all these adverse effects were mild or moderate in intensity. 
Based on the adverse effects reported in clinical trials with PAH, no first dose effect with pronounced 
harmful  vasodilatory  effects  has  been  reported  during  the  initiation  period  of  4  weeks  at  half  dose 
(62.5 mg) in patients with PAH. 
Treatment  with  bosentan  was  associated  with  a  dose-related,  modest  decrease  in  haemoglobin 
concentration.  Bosentan-related  decreases  in  haemoglobin  concentration  were  not  progressive,  and 
stabilised after the first 4–12 weeks of treatment. It is recommended that haemoglobin concentrations 
be  checked  prior  to  initiation  of  treatment,  every  month  during  the  first  4  months,  and  quarterly 
thereafter. 
A  substantial  safety  issue  is  related  to  the  hepatotoxicity  for  which  the  mechanisms  have  not  been 
clearly  established.  Liver  aminotransferase  levels  will  have  to  be  measure  prior  to  initiation  of 
treatment  and  subsequently  at  monthly  intervals,  at  least.  Recommendations  in  case  of  ALT/AST 
elevations  and  in  case  of  clinical  symptoms  of  liver  injury  have  been  provided  in  the  summary  of 
product characteristics. The post-marketing programme should ensure safety data collection especially 
regarding liver function monitoring for at least two years after approval to validate the guideline for 
monitoring as recommended in the SPC. 
The risk of rebound effect when bosentan is discontinued is unknown since few patients experienced 
abrupt  discontinuation  of  the  vasodilatory  treatments  in  the  PAH  studies  provided.  The  effect  of 
bosentan on plasmatic ET levels has not been assessed in patients with PAH. Due the occurrence of 
severe  deleterious  and  fatal  outcome  related  to  increase  in  pulmonary  arterial  pressure  (PAP)  and 
pulmonary  vascular  resistance  (PVR)  described  after  withdrawals  of  other  vasodilatory  agents  the 
applicant  recommends  gradual  dose  reduction  (halving  the  dose  for  3  to  7  days).  Although  no 
experimental  data  support  this  guidance,  the  proposed  scheme  to  gradually  reduce  the  dose  before 
discontinuation is acceptable. 
Due  to  the  disease  itself  and  the  teratogenic  effect  of  bosentan,  Tracleer  is  contraindicated  during 
pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using reliable contraception. As bosentan is an 
inducer  of  CYP450,  oral  contraceptives  should  not  be  used  as  the  sole  method  of  contraception  in 
women.  Additional  or  an  alternative  reliable  method  of  contraception  is  recommended.  Repeated 
monthly pregnancy tests are recommended. 
21 
EMEA 2005 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Tracleer  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  (two  strengths).  The  quality  dossier  indicates  that  the 
active  substance  and  finished  product  are  manufactured  and  controlled  in  a  relevant  manner,  in 
compliance  with  current  EU  and  ICH  guidelines.  Satisfactory  information  has  been  provided  to 
demonstrate that the manufacture and control processes routinely and consistently generate a product 
of uniform quality when used in accordance with the conditions defined in the SPC. 
At the time of the Opinion, the CPMP concluded that one minor quality issue, which had no impact on 
the risk/benefit balance of the product when used in accordance with the SPC, remained to be resolved 
and  it  was  agreed  that  this  would  be  resolved  as  a  follow-up  measure  to  be  submitted  post-
authorisation. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  bosentan  is  a  competitive 
antagonist  of  ET  binding  to  both  ETA  and  ETB  receptors,  reducing  pulmonary  artery  pressure. 
However, the selectivity for pulmonary vessels has not been demonstrated experimentally. 
Bosentan  exerts  a  concentration-dependent  functional  cholestatic  effect  by  competing  with  bile  salt 
elimination  via  the  Bsep.  Cholestasis  was  seen  in  the  rat  and  dog  and  was  associated  with 
histopathological evidence of hepatocellular damage with increased aminotransferase. 
Red blood cell parameters were decreased in both non-clinical and clinical studies. The changes were 
small in magnitude and might possibly be related to the pharmacodynamic properties of the product in 
decreasing vascular permeability resulting in haemodilution. 
In rodent carcinogenicity studies, bosentan treatment resulted in  a statistically significant increase in 
the  incidence  of  hepatocellular  tumours  in  male  mice  (adenoma,  carcinoma)  and  a  statistically 
significant  increase  in  the  incidence  of  thyroid  follicular  tumours  in  male  rats.  The  extrapolation  of 
this carcinogenic potential to human remains uncertain. 
A  teratogenic  effect  has  been  observed  in  rats  at  exposures  that  could  be  achieved  in  humans. 
Bosentan  should  be  contraindicated  in  pregnancy  and  appropriate  precautions  should  be  taken  for 
women  of  childbearing  potential.  Milk  excretion  has  not  been  studied.  Bosentan  is  a  lipophilic 
substance for which excretion or even accumulation seems to be highly likely. Nursing women taking 
Tracleer should be advised to discontinue breast-feeding. 
Information has been included in the summary of product characteristics accordingly. 
The  Company  should  provide  as  follow-up  measure,  the  results  of  the  in  vivo  study  planned  to 
evaluate the effect of each compound and of the combination of bosentan and oestrogens on bile salts 
in rats. 
Efficacy 
Based on the results of the two trials provided in PAH, bosentan showed a significant improvement in 
exercise capacity and symptoms in patients with primary PAH and secondary pulmonary hypertension 
related  to  scleroderma  with  grade  III  functional  status  (WHO  classification).  No  difference  in 
mortality rate was shown as compared to placebo groups. 
Data support a maintenance dose of 125 mg twice daily. The benefit/risk ratio of 250 mg is acceptable 
in  case  of  late  deterioration  despite  treatment  with  Tracleer  at  125  mg  bid  since  it  may  slightly 
improve their exercise capacity and provided that patients are adequately monitored. 
The benefit/risk balance of bosentan has not been established at early stage of the disease e.g. patients 
with grade I  and grade II  functional status. Regarding PAH  secondary to scleroderma the indication 
should  be  restricted  to  patients  without  significant  interstitial  disease.  Moreover,  the  SPC  should 
mention that no studies have been performed in secondary PAH other than related to connective tissue 
22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
primarily scleroderma (e.g. AIDS). Data do not support the use of bosentan in patients with grade IV 
functional status. 
Safety and efficacy have not been established in children under the age of 12 years. Pharmacokinetic 
data  in  children  should  be  submitted  as  follow-up  measure  (these  data  have  subsequently  been 
submitted and are presented in the “post-authorisation” section). 
Insufficient data are available to address the concomitant use of epoprostenol and Tracleer. The SPC 
should  state  that  there  is  no  evidence  at  this  time  to  recommend  this  combination.  The  applicant 
should  provide,  as  a  follow-up  measure,  the  report  on  study  AC-052-355  (BREATH-2)  designed  to 
provide  further  information  in  this  context  (these  data  have  subsequently  been  submitted  and  are 
presented in the “post-authorisation” section).  
Bosentan is metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 and is an inducer of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 
isoenzymes  CYP2C9  and  CYP3A4.  Consequently,  specific  recommendations  have  to  be  taken  for 
administrations of drugs metabolized by these isoenzymes or inhibiting these isoenzymes. In addition, 
co-administration of Tracleer and cyclosporine A is contraindicated and glibenclamide should not be 
co-administered. 
The  final  report  of  the  kinetic  study  performed  in  PAH  patients  should  be  provided  as  follow-up 
measure  (these  data  have  subsequently  been  submitted  and  are  presented  in  the  “post-authorisation” 
section). 
Safety 
The  adverse  reactions  in  patients  with  PAH  receiving  bosentan  were  mostly  related  to  vasodilatory 
effects such as flush, headache, syncope and lower limb oedema. Nevertheless, bosentan carries safety 
risks  with  respect  to  medicinal  products  interactions,  teratogenicity,  hepatotoxicity  and  decrease  in 
haemoglobin  with  unclear mechanisms, for which appropriate information should be included in the 
summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
Hepatotoxicity is a safety issue since the mechanism remains unclear. Further experience is required to 
clarify  the  mechanism  of  liver  injury  and  the  subsequent  optimal  monitoring  of  liver  function. 
However,  it  is  a  fact  that  no  irreversible  damage  or  fatal  event  related  to  liver  injury  induced  by 
bosentan has been reported until today since the product has been used with close monitoring of liver 
function in clinical trials or through compassionate use. The proposed guideline that was the one used 
in clinical trials seems to be appropriate to avoid irreversible harmful injury.  
Tracleer is contraindicated during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using reliable 
contraception. Repeated monthly pregnancy tests are recommended. 
When  used  in  the  acceptable  indication,  a  progressive  short-term  fatal  disease,  the  efficiency  of 
bosentan  to  improve  exercise  capacity  might  offset  its  potential  deleterious  effect  provided  that 
physician  is  well  informed  of  the  risk  carried  by  bosentan  and  appropriate  management  and 
monitoring are ensured. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Tracleer has shown efficacy in improving exercise capacity and symptoms in patients with pulmonary 
arterial  hypertension  (PAH)  grade  III,  primary  or  secondary  to  scleroderma  without  significant 
interstitial  pulmonary  disease.  Data  do  not  support  the  use  of  bosentan  in  patients  with  grade  IV 
functional status. 
The benefit/risk balance of bosentan has not been established at early stage of the disease i.e. patients 
with  grade  I  and  grade  II  functional  status.  Although  results  are  promising,  further  experience  is 
required to address the effect of bosentan on survival and on the natural history of the disease.  
Treatment  with  Tracleer  carries  safety  risks  with  respect  to  medicinal  products  interactions, 
teratogenicity,  hepatotoxicity  and  decrease  in  haemoglobin  with  unclear  mechanisms,  for  which 
appropriate precautions and monitoring are necessary.  
Based on the review of the data on quality, safety and efficacy, the benefit risk of Tracleer is positive 
when used in accordance with the conditions defined in the summary of product characteristics, in the 
following indication: 
23 
EMEA 2005 
“Treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) to improve exercise capacity and symptoms in 
patients with grade III functional status. Efficicacy has been shown in:  
• 
• 
Primary PAH 
PAH secondary to scleroderma without significant interstitial pulmonary disease.” 
Tracleer  should  only  be  initiated  and  monitored  by  a  physician  experienced  in  the  treatment  of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension. 
A  post-marketing  programme  should  ensure  firstly  that  the  prescribing  physician  will  be  aware  of 
potential safety issues and recommendations for regular monitoring as stated in the SPC, and secondly 
that  safety  information  will  be  collected  including  detailed  clarifications  when  the  drug  is 
discontinued.  The  data  should  be  analysed  in  order  to  help  to  further  clarify  the  mechanism  of 
hepatotoxicity  in  humans  and  to  provide  sufficient  reassurance  to  validate  the  optimal  guideline  for 
monitoring of the product especially with regard to liver function concerns. 
The  indications  for  which  the  medicinal  product  is  intended  are  encountered  so  rarely  that  the 
applicant  cannot reasonably be expected  to  provide  comprehensive  data  on the clinical  safety of the 
medicinal  product.  Therefore,  the  marketing  authorisation  should  be  granted  under  exceptional 
circumstances.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Tracleer  in  the  treatment  of  Primary  pulmonary  arterial  hypertension 
(PAH)  and  PAH  secondary  to  scleroderma  without  significant  interstitial  pulmonary  disease,  to 
improve  exercise  capacity  and  symptoms  in  patients  with  grade  III  functional  status  was  favourable 
and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional 
circumstances. 
6. 
Post-Authosisation data submitted as Follow-Up Measures and related changes in the SPC 
(Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 5.1 and 5.2) and Package Leaflet to reflect the new clinical findings 
The MAH has submitted substantial new clinical data in order to fulfil the follow up measures.  
6.1 
Clinical Data 
6.1.1   A comparative effect of bosentan and epoprostenol on survival in PAH (Report B-02.014) 
The  objective  of  this  study  was  to  compare  survival  with  Tracleer  vs  epoprostenol  as  first-line 
treatment  for  patients  with  either  PPH  or  pulmonary  hypertension  secondary  to  connective  tissue 
diseases  (PH/CTD).  Data  on  patients  treated  with  bosentan  were  collected  from  September  1999  to 
March 2002 and obtained from the case report forms of each patient from the 2 pivotal studies (AC-
052-351  and  AC-052-352),  already  assessed  in  the  original  MAA,  and  their  respective  open-label 
extensions (AC-052-353 and AC-052-354). Data on patients treated with epoprostenol were obtained 
from uncontrolled, long-term surveillance studies collected from 6 different centres involved in PAH 
follow-up studies from April 1987 to March 2002. The data included general demographic information 
as well as baseline haemodynamics. Patients with aetiology other than PPH or PH/CTD were excluded 
from  the  analysis.  The  observed  survival  of  the  epoprostenol-  and  bosentan-treated  patients  was 
compared with the predicted survival as calculated according to the formula derived from the National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) Registry on patients with PPH on conventional therapy. 
Results  
A total of 901 patients were included in the study; 219 patients received bosentan in a blinded manner 
for  12  or  16  weeks  prior  to  entering  the  open-label  extension  study,  and  682  patients  were  on 
epoprostenol.  Although  epoprostenol  patients  were  followed  for  a  longer  period,  only  the  first  30 
months (the longest time available for bosentan therapy) were used for the analysis. Patients with PPH 
(714) or CTD/PH (187) were included from the start of treatment until death, transfer to commercial 
bosentan, or the cut-off date if on bosentan, and to death, loss to follow-up, or lung transplantation if 
24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on  epoprostenol.  Patient  demographics  and  PAH  characteristics  at  baseline  in  the  epoprostenol  and 
bosentan groups (ITT population) are shown in the following table: 
Characteristic / Parameter 
Epoprostenol 
(n = 682) 
Bosentan 
(n = 219) 
147 (21%) 
535 (78%) 
43.3 ± 14.1 (n = 666) 
0.1, 79 
Gender [n (%)] 
Male 
Female 
Age (years) 
Min, Max 
Aetiology of PAH [n (%)] 
PPH 
PH/CTD 
NYHA/WHO1 functional class [n (%)] 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
Cardiac index (l/min/m2) 
Pulmonary vascular resistance (Wood) 
Mean pulmonary artery pressure (mmHg) 
Right atrial pressure (mmHg) 
6-minute walking distance (m) 
Values are given as mean ± standard deviation.  
1NYHA / WHO: New York Heart Association / World Health Organization. 
545 (80%) 
137 (20%) 
(n = 659) 
0 (0%) 
5 (1%) 
416 (64%) 
238 (36%) 
1.9 ± 0.6 (n = 625) 
18.4 ± 10.1 (n = 422) 
64.6 ± 17.4 (n =646) 
12.5 ± 6.0 (n = 642) 
300 ± 121 (n=232) 
43 (20%) 
176 (80%) 
49.3 ± 15.8 (n = 219) 
13, 80 
169 (77%) 
50 (23%) 
(n = 219) 
1 (0%) 
16 (7%) 
184 (84%) 
18 (8%) 
2.4 ± 0.8 (n = 218) 
12.1 ± 7.9 (n = 206) 
54.5 ± 16.0 (n = 219) 
9.7 ± 5.8 (n = 215) 
340 ± 88 (n=219) 
Baseline characteristics indicate that, overall, the epoprostenol-treated patients had more severe PAH 
(i.e.,  lower  cardiac  index,  larger  proportion  of  patients  in  WHO  class  IV)  and  had  been  treated  for 
longer than the bosentan-treated patients. The average exposure time to treatment was 2.7 ± 2.2 years 
and 1.2 ± 0.5 years in the epoprostenol and bosentan-treated patients, respectively. 
There  were  182/682  and  18/219  deaths  among  epoprostenol-  and  bosentan-treated  patients, 
respectively  (crude  death  rates  26.7%  and  8.22%,  respectively;  p  =  0.0001).  The  effects  of  several 
prognostic  variables  were  investigated  using  Cox  proportional  hazard  regression  with  gender,  age, 
haemodynamics,  WHO  class,  and  walk  distance  as  covariates  to  control  for  known  confounding 
factors. The baseline 6-minute walking distance was not available for a number of patients. 
The hazard ratios for epoprostenol relative to bosentan from 3 regressions are shown below: 
Patients 
Regression 1 controlling 
for haemodynamics1 
Regression 3 controlling 
for walking distance3 
1.9 (1.1 – 3.3) (n = 501) 
PPH and PH/CTD  2.4 (1.4 – 4.1) (n = 836) 
1.9 (< 1 – 3.9) (n = 399) 
2.8 (1.4 – 5.5) (n = 662) 
PPH 
1.8 (0.7 – 4.7) (n = 102) 
1.7 (0.7 – 3.8) (n = 174) 
PH/CTD 
1Variables in regression 1 include gender, age, cardiac index, mean right atrial pressure and mean pulmonary artery pressure. 
2Variables in regression 2 include gender, age, and NYHA/WHO functional class. 
3Variables in regression 3 include gender, age, and 6-minute walking distance. 
Hazard ratio (95% confidence intervals) 
Regression 2 controlling 
for functional class2 
2.0 (1.2 – 3.3) (n = 886) 
2.1 (1.1 – 4.1) (n = 701) 
1.8 (0.8 – 4.0) (n = 185) 
The hazard ratio was higher for PPH than for PH/CTD patients in all regressions. The results were not 
significant  for  the  smaller  group  of  PH/CTD  patients.  Moreover,  the  results  in  PPH  were  not 
significant when controlling for walking distance. 
6.1.2.   BREATHE-2 Study (AC-052-355) 
This  was  a  multicentre,  double  blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study  in  patients  with  severe 
PAH in need of epoprostenol initiation treatment, conducted in the US and Europe in 2002. The aim 
was  to  assess  the  effects  of  Tracleer  when  combined  with  epoprostenol  on  cardiopulmonary 
haemodynamics  (primary)  and  on  exercise  capacity,  dyspnoea-fatigue  rating,  and  functional  status 
25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
classification  (secondaries).  A  further  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  the 
epoprostenol+bosentan  combination.  The  MAH  has  provided  data  from  the  16-week  double-blind 
phase  of  the  study.  An  open-label  extension  phase  will  be  separately  reported  when  this  phase  is 
completed. The study design is shown in figure 1. 
Patients  had  to  be  ≥  12  years  of  age  presenting  PPH,  SSc/PH,  or  scleroderma  spectrum  disorders 
(including  mixed  CTD)  in  WHO  function  class  III  or  IV  and  scheduled  to  receive  epoprostenol 
treatment  within  2  months  after  screening.  They  were  to  have  life  expectancy  >  4  months  as  best 
assessed  by the investigator and  not requiring  more aggressive  up-titration of epoprostenol  than that 
used in the protocol (2 ng/kg/min at initiation to a maximum dose of 16 ng/kg/min at Week 16). 
Patients were treated for a total of 16 weeks and were evaluated at baseline and after 1, 4, 6 (Europe 
only),  8,  12,  and  16  weeks  of  treatment,  or  at  premature  withdrawal.  If  treatment  was  prematurely 
discontinued because of clinical deterioration (criteria not pre-defined in the protocol), the patient was 
to be permanently withdrawn from the study and followed up for 28 days after the end of treatment to 
collect information on ongoing AEs and serious adverse events (SAEs). 
The  primary endpoint  was a change from  baseline  to  Week  16 in  total  pulmonary resistance (TPR), 
expressed as a percentage of the baseline value. Secondary endpoints were changes from baseline to 
Week 16 in the following parameters: 
- cardiac index, cardiac output, PVR, PVR index, mean PAP, and mean RAP. 
- walk distance (6-minute walk test) 
-  dyspnoea-fatigue  rating,  consisting  of  3  components  that  measured  the  magnitude  of  the  task  that 
evokes dyspnoea or fatigue, the magnitude of the pace (or effort) with which the task was performed, 
and the associated functional impairment in general activities. All 3 components were to be rated using 
a  5-point  scale  (0  -  4)  resulting  in  a  total  score  ranging  from  0  (severe  dyspnoea/fatigue)  to  12 
(symptomatic only with extraordinary activity). 
- WHO functional class 
Safety endpoints included AEs, concomitant treatments, clinical laboratory tests, vital signs, physical 
examination  12-lead  electrocardiogram  (ECG)  and  body  weight  assessed  at  screening/baseline  and 
Week 16 or premature withdrawal. 
Sample size was calculated assuming a 2:1 randomisation, a two-sided α= 0.05 using the Student’s t-
test  for  treatment-group  comparisons,  a  type  II  error  of  β  =  0.20  (80%  power),  and  an  expected 
treatment  difference  in  the  mean  change  in  TPR  from  baseline  to  Week 16  of  28%,  with  a  standard 
deviation  of  25%.  Given  these  assumptions,  a  sample  size  of  20 evaluable  patients  for  the  bosentan 
group and 10 evaluable patients for the placebo group was required. 
26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Study design 
Epoprostenol up-titration Target dose:  12-16 ng/kg/min at Weeks 14 to 16 
(2 weeks) 
(2 weeks)
14 
16 
(2 weeks)       12 
    (12 days) 
10 
(2 weeks) 
8 
(4 days) 
2 
6 
(2 weeks) 
4 
Bosentan 
62.5 mg b.i.d. 
                       Bosentan 125 mg b.i.d. 
   Bosentan 62.5 mg b.i.d. 
l
o
n
e
t
s
o
r
p
o
p
E
e
s
o
d
)
n
i
m
/
g
k
/
g
n
(
Screening 
Max 2 wks 
Epopros- 
tenol 
2 days 
Placebo  
62.5 mg b.i.d. 
Placebo 125 mg b.i.d. 
Placebo 62.5 mg b.i.d. 
Time (weeks) 
0 
2 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12 
14 
16
Baseline and 
epoprostenol 
initiation 
Randomisation 
(bosentan:placebo, 2:1) 
End of double-
blind phase
Note : at Week 4, the dose increase to 8 ng/kg/min was to be made 2 days following the up-titration of randomised treatment so that both medications were not increased on the same day. 
27
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thirty-three patients were enrolled. Four patients discontinued Tracleer and 1 discontinued placebo 
and were not replaced. 
The study population was largely Caucasian women with PPH, but also included two Blacks, two 
Hispanics, and one Asian.  
Results 
The results of the primary endpoint are shown below: 
Change from baseline in TPR (dyn*sec/cm^5) to Week 16, ITT population 
Placebo
N=11
Bosentan
N=22
----------------------------------------------------------------
Baseline
Mean
Standard deviation
Median
Min, Max
1697
666
1597
718, 3629
1628
511
1697
817, 2720
Week 16
Mean
Standard deviation
Median
Min, Max
Absolute change from baseline
Mean
Standard deviation
Median
Min, Max
Percent change from baseline
Mean
Standard deviation
Median
Min, Max
TREATMENT EFFECT
1242
509
1051
700, 2246
-386
403
-191
-1281, 0
-22.6
20.4
-14.3
-64.5, 0.0
Absolute change
p-value Mann-Whitney U-test
p-value t-test
Percent change
p-value Mann-Whitney U-test
p-value t-test
1016
367
971
549, 1943
-681
569
-648
-2459,0
-36.3
20.1
-39.6
-67.8,0.0
0.1269
0.1357
0.0759
0.0758
----------------------------------------------------------------
Note: All patients in the study are treated with epoprostenol in addition to randomised
treatment (placebo or bosentan).
TPR = total pulmonary resistance.
All evaluable patients in both treatment groups had an improvement in TPR from baseline. The mean 
treatment difference obtained in the primary endpoint was approximately 14%, and not the expected 
28% used to calculate the sample size. A trend to a greater mean decrease in TPR, although not 
statistically significant (p = 0.0758 Student’s t-test), was obtained with bosentan+epoprostenol as 
compared to placebo+epoprostenol (−36.3% vs −22.6%, respectively). 
Regarding secondary efficacy parameters, the differences in cardio-pulmonary haemodynamics (PVR, 
PVRI, and mean PAP) between the two groups were not significant, although a trend for improvement 
was observed in the bosentan group. Such trend was not observed in the percentage change in mean 
RAP.  No  statistical  difference  was  observed  between  the  two  groups  in  the  6-minute  Walk  Test;  in 
fact,  the  mean  change  was  higher  in  the  placebo  group  [72.4m  or  27.6%  (95%  CL:  8.4,  46.9)]  as 
compared to the bosentan group [43.1m or 15.6% (95% CL: -9.6, 40.7)]. Similar small improvements 
in dyspnoea-fatigue ratings were obtained in both treatment groups. No treatment effect was shown in 
absolute  change  from  baseline  (p  =  0.6378  Mann-Whitney  U-test).  The  improvement  in  WHO 
functional class was slightly greater in the bosentan group as compared to placebo (59.1% vs 45.5%, 
respectively). However, this study was underpowered to detect a difference between the two groups. 
Safety data were compared between treatment groups by inspection, as no formal statistical tests were 
applied. Exposure to randomised medications and to epoprostenol was similar between the 2 treatment 
groups. Most AEs were  mild or  moderate in intensity in both treatment groups and were considered 
unrelated  to  randomised  treatment  by  the  investigators.  Jaw  pain  and  other  common  AEs  associated 
with epoprostenol therapy (diarrhoea, flushing, headache) occurred in both treatment groups. Anaemia 
28 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
occurred  in  2  patients  on  bosentan  (vs  none  on  placebo).  Leg  oedema  was  more  frequent  in  the 
bosentan  group  (6/22=  27.3%)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (1/11=9.1%).  Oedema  and  leg  oedema 
among patients on bosentan+epoprostenol occurred  within the first 38 days of treatment, and in one 
case  was  associated  with  a  report  of  weight  gain.  Most  cases  of  oedema  and/or  leg  oedema  were 
considered  unrelated  to  treatment,  and  none  required  a  change  in  randomised  treatment.  SAEs 
occurred in 3 patients (27.3%) on placebo+epoprostenol and in 10 (45.5%) on bosentan+epoprostenol. 
No meaningful change in clinical chemistry variables was observed in either treatment group. 
6.1.3. 
 Study AC-032-357 
This was a multicentre, open-label, single-arm study of oral bosentan in 115 PAH patients designed to 
collect long-term safety data. Patients were enrolled and treated at an initial dose of 62.5 mg b.i.d. for 
4 weeks  followed  by  the  maintenance  dose  of  125 mg  b.i.d.  until  Tracleer  became  commercially 
available or the sponsor terminated the study.  
Patients included were prostacyclin- and bosentan-naive. Patients with unstable PAH disease (i.e. who 
had started or stopped treatment for PAH within 1 month of screening, excluding anticoagulation with 
warfarin) were excluded. Visits were scheduled each month (±5 days) for the first 6 months, and every 
3 months thereafter until the end of the study. 
The  safety  parameters  in  this  trial  were  deaths,  other  SAEs,  AEs  that  led  to  dose  reduction  or 
temporary/permanent discontinuation of study medication, and marked laboratory abnormalities. 
Regarding demographic characteristics, patients were predominantly Caucasian (78%), female (77%), 
with a median age of 50 years (range 10 - 80 years; Mean age 50.4 years; only one patient <12 years). 
The  mean  weight  was  79.6  kg  (min:  36.3;  max:  139;  median  74.8  kg).  About  70%  of  patients  had 
PAH; PAH was associated with scleroderma in 24 patients, systemic lupus erythematosus in 4, HIV 
infection in 4, and a congenital heart defect in 2. Seven patients were grade II, 101 were grade III and 
7 were grade IV. About 20% had a history of appetite suppressant use. 
Five  males  and  8  females  were  included  in  a  pharmacokinetic  sub-study,  where  multiple-dose 
pharmacokinetic evaluations were scheduled after at least 2 weeks of treatment at each dose level. The 
13 patients had a mean age of 45 years (range 24 – 48 years) and mean weight 67 kg (range 46-108 
kg). Eight were Caucasian, 3 Asian, 1 Indian and 1 Hispanic. PPH was the most common aetiology 
(8 patients); 4 patients had PAH related to scleroderma, and 1 had PAH related to a congenital heart 
defect.  Two  patients  were  treated  for  less  than  2  weeks  at  the  125  mg  level  and  in  1  subject  an 
incomplete plasma profile was obtained at the 62.5 mg level. Thus, 12 and 11 patients were included 
in the pharmacokinetic analysis at the 62.5 mg and 125 mg dose levels, respectively. 
Results 
A summary of pharmacokinetic parameters of bosentan and its metabolites in PAH patients after 
multiple-dose administration of bosentan 62.5 and 125 mg b.i.d. is shown below: 
29 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment 
Bosentan 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
tmax 
(h) 
62.5 mg twice daily 
1187 (814, 1560) 
3.0 (1.0 - 4.0) 
AUCτ 
(ng·h/ml) 
6232 (4582, 7881) 
125 mg twice daily 
 2286 (1234, 3337) 
2.3 (1.0 - 6.0) 
8912 (6296, 11531) 
Ro 47-8634 
Treatment 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
62.5 mg twice daily 
34.4 (17.4, 51.4) 
125 mg twice daily 
58.9 (35.1, 82.6) 
tmax 
(h) 
3.0 (2.2 - 6.0) 
3.0 (2.0 - 6.0) 
Ro 48-5033 
Treatment 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
62.5 mg twice daily 
356 (85.2, 627) 
125 mg twice daily 
429 (49.3, 808) 
tmax 
(h) 
4.0 (0.0 - 9.0) 
2.3 (0.0 - 6.0) 
Ro 64-1056 
Treatment 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
62.5 mg twice daily 
196 (61.5, 330) 
125 mg twice daily 
242 (52.3, 433) 
tmax 
(h) 
4.0 (0.0 - 9.0) 
4.0 (0.0 - 6.0) 
AUCτ 
(ng·h/ml) 
238 (79.3, 397) 
295 (176, 415) 
AUCτ 
(ng·h/ml) 
2460 (613, 4307) 
2573 (93, 5053) 
AUCτ 
(ng·h/ml) 
1683 (429, 2937) 
 1833 (17.0, 3649) 
Data are expressed as arithmetic mean (and 95% confidence limits) or, for tmax, as median (and range).  
N = 12 for the 62.5-mg group, and N = 11 for the 125-mg group. 
The exposure to bosentan was greater after 125 mg b.i.d. than after 62.5 mg b.i.d., but was less than 
dose-proportional. The exposure to the metabolites Ro 47-8634, Ro 48-5033 and Ro 64-1056 relative 
to the exposure to bosentan was 3.8%, 39%, and 27% after 62.5 mg b.i.d., and 3.3%, 29%, and 21%, 
after 125 mg b.i.d, respectively. The exposure to bosentan in patients with PAH was similar to that in 
patients with PAH secondary to scleroderma, and also between male and female patients. The design 
of  the  study (i.e.  no  collection  of  blood  samples  beyond  12  hours  after  drug  administration)  did  not 
allow for the estimation of t1/2. 
The Cmax and AUC values observed were approximately 2-fold greater in patients with PAH than has 
been observed in healthy subjects (see Table below).  
Comparison of the arithmetic mean Cmax and AUC for bosentan obtained for PAH patients in this 
study (AC-052-357) with data from healthy adult subjects in previously reported studies  
Cmax (ng/ml) 
Population 
544 
1187 
1083 
2286 
Dose 
62.5 mg twice daily 
62.5 mg twice daily 
125 mg twice daily 
125 mg twice daily 
AUCτ (ng·h/ml) 
2857 
6232 
4804 
8912 
Healthy subjects* 
PAH patients 
Healthy subjects† 
PAH patients 
Values are arithmetic means.  
*  From Study AC-052-108 (n = 10). 
†  From Study AC-052-109 (n = 9). 
Ro 48-5033 and Ro 64-1056 showed plasma concentrations greater than those of Ro 47-8634, which 
was similar to observations in healthy subjects. The overall exposure to the metabolites relative to the 
exposure to bosentan was 70% and 53% after dosing regimens of 62.5 and 125 mg b.i.d., respectively. 
In  healthy  subjects,  the  overall  exposure  to  the  metabolites  after  multiple  dosing  usually  did  not 
exceed 25% that to bosentan. The increased exposure to the metabolites after a dose of 62.5 mg b.i.d. 
was  mainly  due  to  the  high  exposures  measured  in  3  patients.  For  two  of  these  patients, 
30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacokinetic data for the 125-mg dose were not available, which explains the decrease in relative 
exposure  to  the  metabolites  at  the  higher  dose.  These  3  patients  were  not  different  from  the  other 
substudy  patients  in  terms  of  demographics  and  co-medications.  However,  only  in  these  3  patients 
were  levels  of  alkaline  phosphatase  above  the  ULN  observed  in  association  with  levels  of  bilirubin 
above the ULN. Both abnormalities were already present at baseline in all 3 patients, and in 2 patients 
clinically  relevant  elevations  in  ALT  occurred  during  the  study.  The  association  of  high  alkaline 
phosphatase  and  high  bilirubin  may  indicate  the  presence  of  cholestasis,  possibly  resulting  in 
decreased biliary excretion of the metabolites.  
Regarding Safety, the mean treatment duration during this study was 15.8 weeks, 85% of patients had 
at least 12 weeks of treatment, 40% of patients had at least 16 weeks of treatment, and some patients 
were  treated  for  up  to  31  weeks.  Twenty  patients  (17.4%)  were  prematurely  discontinued  from  the 
study, 3 of which transferred early to commercial Tracleer. Four patients died related to progression of 
PAH;  another  death,  also  due  to  progression  of  PAH,  occurred  16  days  after  the  end  of  the  study. 
None  of  these  deaths  were  considered  related  to  bosentan  treatment.  Ten  patients  had  treatment 
discontinued  because  of  an  AE,  including  3  for  worsening  of  the  patient’s  condition  and  seven  for 
other AEs. One patient was discontinued because of a lack of improvement and 2 patients were lost to 
follow-up. 
Bosentan was discontinued because of an AE in 10 patients, with or without a previous dose reduction 
or  temporary  interruption  in  treatment;  3  patients  were  discontinued  due  to  worsening  of  their 
condition  (aggravated  PAH),  2  patients  discontinued  due  to  elevated  liver  aminotransferases 
(abnormal  hepatic  function),  and  discontinuation  in  other  patients  was  due  to  cardiac/renal  failure, 
fluid overload, hepatitis, nausea/vomiting, and renal failure. 
The  most  frequent  AEs  reported  leading  to  changes  in  study  medication  were  abnormal  hepatic 
function  (4.3%)  and  aggravated  PAH  (3.5%).  Two  patients  had  a  marked  decrease  from  baseline  in 
haemoglobin concentration and/or haematocrit. Marked increases in AST and ALT were observed in 
10 and 11 patients, respectively; 3 of these patients had peak values ≤ 5 × ULN, 3 had values 5 - 8 × 
ULN, and 2 patients had values > 8 × ULN (a marked increase in bilirubin was associated). Treatment 
was  discontinued  in  these  two  patients  and  values  returned  to  baseline  within  19  and  45 days, 
respectively. In the other 6 patients with increases in aminotransferases (between 3 and 8 × ULN), the 
bosentan  dose  was  down  titrated  or  in  one  case  not  up  titrated  as  scheduled  because  of  low  body 
weight,  and  the  aminotransferase  levels  decreased.  An  associated  marked  increase  in  alkaline 
phosphatase was seen in 2 patients, one of who was among those discontinued.  
6.1.4.    BREATHE-3 STUDY (AC-052-356)  
This  was  a  multicentre,  open-label,  non-controlled,  parallel-group  single-  and  multiple-dose  trial  in 
paediatric  patients  with  PAH,  with  stratification  for  weight  and  epoprostenol  use.  The  primary 
objective was to investigate the pharmacokinetics of bosentan given as single and multiple oral doses 
in  pediatric  patients  with  PAH.  Secondary  objectives  were  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerability  of 
single  and  multiple  oral  doses  of  Tracleer  and  to  obtain  preliminary  data  on  changes  in  exercise 
capacity,  Borg  dyspnoea  index,  haemodynamics,  and  WHO  functional  class  after  12 weeks  of 
treatment.  
Patients were assigned to one of 3 parallel bosentan treatment arms on the basis of body weight. On 
Day 1, patients were treated with a single dose of Tracleer and blood samples were taken. On Day 2, 
patients began daily treatment with the initial dose (62.5 mg b.i.d., 31.25 mg b.i.d., or 31.25 mg once 
daily [q.d.]) for 4 weeks, after which the dosage was up-titrated to twice the initial dose (target dose). 
At the Week-12 visit, patients were again hospitalised for tests, and on the third morning were treated 
with a single Tracleer dose (125 mg, 62.5 mg, or 31.25 mg) after which blood samples for multiple-
dose pharmacokinetic profiles were taken.  
31 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study design 
18 patients 
Group 1 (> 40 kg) 
Bosentan 62.5 mg b.i.d. 
Group 2  
(20 < x ≤ 40 kg) 
Bosentan 31.25 mg b.i.d. 
Group 3  
(10 ≤ x ≤ 20 kg) 
Bosentan 31.25mg q.d. 
Bosentan 125 mg b.i.d. 
Bosentan 62.5 mg b.i.d. 
Bosentan 31.25 mg b.i.d. 
Time (weeks)  0b 
2 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12b  
Screening  
(−3 d to −3 wks) 
a Each group included 3 patients on conventional vasodilator/anticoagulant therapy and 3 on epoprostenol therapy. 
b Single-dose pharmacokinetic profiles were obtained on Day 1 and multiple-dose profiles at the Week-12 visit. Single doses 
Study 
continuation 
12-week treatment period 
given on Day 1 were 125 mg (Group 1), 62.5 mg (Group 2), and 31.25 mg (Group 3). 
Patients who completed the 12-week pharmacokinetic evaluation were eligible to continue treatment, 
with visits to study centres scheduled at Months 6 and 12, and every 3 months thereafter until the end 
of the study. Safety parameters and WHO functional class were assessed regularly until the end of the 
study.  Pharmacodynamic  assessments  were  performed  at  baseline  and  Week  12  prior 
to 
pharmacokinetic assessments. 
Pharmacokinetic profiles of Tracleer and its 3 main metabolites obtained at baseline/initiation (single 
dose) and Week 12 (multiple dose) were based on blood samples drawn immediately predose and at 
subsequent intervals postdose over a 24-hour period. 
The following assessed and derived pharmacodynamic parameters were measured at baseline/ 
initiation (Visit 2) and after 12 weeks of bosentan treatment (visit 5):  
+ Cardiopulmonary haemodynamic variables [systolic, diastolic, and mean PAP and sytemic arterial 
pressure (SAP)];  mean pulmonary  capillary wedge  pressure (PCWP),  mean (RAP),  cardiac  output, 
pulmonary blood flow (PBF), pulmonary arterial oxygenation saturation (Pasat), (pulmonary venous 
saturation  (Pvsat),  measured  O2  consumption,  heart  rate,  SaO2,  mixed  venous  saturation  (Mvsat), 
cardiac  index,  stroke  index,  PVR,  PVRI,  systemic  vascular  resistance  (SVR),  systemic  vascular 
resistance index (SVRI), PVR/SVR.  
+ Walk distance during the 6-minute walk test 
+ Borg dyspnoea index score 
+ Cycle ergometry test variables (respiratory O2 and CO2 exchange (VO2 and VCO2), and ventilation 
(VE), heart rate, blood pressure, work rate, and exercise time) measured at rest and at peak exercise. 
+ Anaerobic threshold values were determined graphically from V-slope plots. 
+ WHO functional class 
No  formal  sample  size  calculation  was  performed  since  there  was  no  information  available  on 
pharmacokinetics  of  bosentan  in  paediatric  patients  with  PAH.  For  pragmatic  reasons,  18  patients 
were proposed and were considered sufficient to reach the study objectives. Patients withdrawn from 
the assessments were to be replaced. The distribution of patients was as follows: 
32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients Assigned to a Treatment Group
Patients Assigned to a Treatment Group
N = 19
N = 19
Dose group by 
Dose group by 
body weight
body weight
Concomitant 
Concomitant 
epoprostenol 
epoprostenol 
therapy
therapy
Premature 
Premature 
Premature 
Discontinuations
Discontinuations
Discontinuations
Transitioned
Transitioned
to commercial 
to commercial 
bosentan
bosentan
Low-weight group 
Low-weight group 
Bosentan
Bosentan
31.25  mg b.i.d.
31.25  mg b.i.d.
n = 7
n = 7
Mid-weight group 
Mid-weight group 
Bosentan
Bosentan
62.5  mg b.i.d.
62.5  mg b.i.d.
n = 6
n = 6
High-weight group 
High-weight group 
Bosentan 
Bosentan 
125 mg b.i.d.
125 mg b.i.d.
n = 6
n = 6
With 
With 
n = 4
n = 4
n = 0
n = 0
n = 0
n = 4
n = 4
Without 
Without 
n = 3
n = 3
n = 1
n = 1
n = 1
n = 2
n = 2
With 
With 
n = 3
n = 3
n = 0
n = 0
n = 0
n = 2
n = 2
Without 
Without 
n = 3
n = 3
n = 0
n = 0
n = 0
n = 3
n = 3
With 
With 
n = 3
n = 3
n = 0
n = 0
n = 0
n = 3
n = 3
Without 
Without 
n = 3
n = 3
n = 0
n = 0
n = 0
n = 3
n = 3
One  patient  in  the  low-weight  dose  group  was  prematurely  discontinued  from  the  study  on  Day  7 
because  of  abnormal  hepatic  enzymes.  The  remaining  18  patients  completed  the  Week-12 
assessments.  An  additional  patient  had  bosentan  discontinued  (Day  197)  because  of  abnormal  liver 
function test results, and 17 patients transitioned to commercial Tracleer at the end of the study.  
All  19  enrolled  patients  were  included  in  the  safety  and  pharmacodynamic  analyses;  however,  the 
patient  who  was  prematurely  discontinued  had  no  Week-12  assessment  and  was  therefore  omitted 
from  the  evaluation  of  all  parameters  that  had  no  other  post-baseline  assessment  (i.e.,  all  but  WHO 
functional class). Pharmacokinetic data were analysed in 18 patients. 
Regarding  demographics  and  baseline  characteristics,  80%  of  patients  were  Caucasian  and  9  were 
male.  The  mean  age  was  9.7  years  old  (range  3.0  -  15.0  years)  and  6  patients  were  <  8  years.  The 
mean weight was 30.8 kg (range 13.9 - 54.0 kg). All 19 patients suffered from either PPH (n = 10) or 
PAH  related  to  congenital  systemic-to-pulmonary  communications  (n  =  9).  Congenital  heart  defects 
associated with PAH included atrial septal defect (ASD) (n=4), ventricular septal defect (VSD) (n=2), 
and patent ductus arteriosus (n=2). In addition, one patient was reported to have had ASD, VSD, and 
anomalous pulmonary venous return. All patients were either WHO functional class II (78.9%) or III 
(21.1%)  at  baseline.  Antithrombotics  were  reported  for  all  patients  (warfarin  84.2%  and  heparin 
52.6%).  About  half  the  patients  reported  using  supplemental  oxygen.  Other  medications  for  PAH 
included  high-ceiling  (loop)  diuretics  (52.6%,  all  on  furosemide),  cardiac  glycosides  (42.1%,  all  on 
digoxin), and calcium channel blockers (26.3%). 
Analyses  of  variance  (ANOVA)  and  covariance  (ANCOVA)  were  calculated.  Explanatory  variables 
were the following: dose (continuous), weight (continuous), age (continuous), gender (categorical) and 
use of Flolan (categorical). 
Results: 
Pharmacokinetic 
Ro 48-5033 was the most prominent metabolite, followed by Ro 64-1056 and Ro 47-8634 with both 
single-  and  multiple-dose  administration  of  bosentan.  The  overall  exposure  to  the  metabolites  after 
both single (19%) and multiple dosing (24% - 30%) was small relative to bosentan.  
After single-dose administration, the exposure to bosentan (geometric mean values) varied from 5,453 
ng.h/ml  in  the  31.25-mg  group  to  10,777  ng.h/ml  in  the  125-mg  group.  The  elimination  t1/2  was 
comparable in the 3 different weight groups, and there was a trend for tmax to increase with dose. Upon 
multiple-dose  administration,  exposure  to  bosentan  was  reduced  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the 
known induction properties of bosentan, and was most notable in the 125 mg b.i.d. (−43%) and 31.25-
mg b.i.d. (−36%) groups, and least pronounced in the 62.5-mg b.i.d. group (−11%; 4/6 children had no 
reduction  in  exposure).  When  compared  to  single-dose  administration  the  trend  for  tmax  to  increase 
with dose disappeared and there was a tendency towards shorter tmax values.  
A greater exposure to bosentan was measured in children when compared to healthy adult volunteers, 
and  this  was  most  pronounced  in  the  31.25-mg  group.  However,  after  correction  for  differences  in 
body weight and dose of the different groups, the exposure tended to be greater in healthy adults than 
33 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in children. Further to a request from CPMP, the MAH provided a comparison between children and 
adults patients. The results are shown in the table below and show that the exposure in children was 
also lower than in adult patients. 
Comparison of bosentan Cmax and AUC data obtained in Study AC-052-356 with data from previously 
reported studies in healthy adult volunteers and patients: 
Population 
Dose 
Healthy volunteers 
31.25 mg 
Paediatric patients 
31.25 mg 
Healthy volunteers 
62.5 mg 
Paediatric patients 
62.5 mg 
Healthy volunteers 
125 mg 
Adult patients 
Paediatric patients 
125 mg 
125 mg 
Population 
Dose 
Healthy volunteers 
31.25 mg 
Paediatric patients 
31.25 mg 
Healthy volunteers 
62.5 mg 
Adult patients 
62.5 mg 
Paediatric patients 
62.5 mg 
Healthy volunteers 
125 mg 
Adult patients 
Paediatric patients 
125 mg 
125 mg 
AUC0-∞ SD 
(ng•h/ml) 
20491 
5453 
42342 
6118 
87913 
NA 
10777 
Cmax SD 
(ng/ml) 
3331 
959 
6172 
NA 
815 
16123 
NA 
1709 
AUCτ MD 
(ng•h/ml) 
AUC0-∞ SD* 
(ng•h/ml) 
AUCτ MD* 
(ng•h/ml) 
NA 
3496 
27442 
5428 
45864 
81495 
6124 
Cmax MD 
(ng/ml) 
NA 
685 
5162 
10625 
1136 
10064 
18785 
1200 
4616 
2879 
5303 
3035 
5486 
4009 
Cmax SD* 
(ng/ml) 
750 
506 
769 
404 
1006 
635 
NA 
1846 
3437 
2692 
2862 
2278 
Cmax MD* 
(ng/ml) 
 
362 
643 
563 
616 
446 
* = Corrected for body weight and dose (value divided by dose/mean weight). 
1  Study AC-052-110 (n = 10); 2 Study AC-052-108 (n = 10); 3 Study AC-052-106 (n = 16); 4 Study AC-052-109 
(n = 9).  
5 Study AC-052-357 (n = 11–12) 
MD = multiple dose, NA = not available, SD = single dose. 
Similar mean of Cmax and AUC values of bosentan were observed after both single- and multiple-dose 
administration in the presence and absence of epoprostenol, as shown in the table below: 
Arithmetic mean values and 95% confidence intervals of Cmax and AUC of bosentan in the presence 
and absence of concomitant epoprostenol administration 
No epoprostenol 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
7.7 (5.1, 10.3) 
7.2 
No epoprostenol 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
8.9 (4.1, 13.7) 
6.2 
Single-dose administration 
+ epoprostenol 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
9.1 (5.8, 12.4) 
8.0 
No epoprostenol 
AUC0-∞ (ng⋅h/ml) 
46.2 (32.6, 59.8) 
39.5 
Multiple-dose administration 
+ epoprostenol 
AUC0-∞ (ng⋅h/ml) 
54.0 (38.4, 69.6) 
54.2 
+ epoprostenol 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
6.6 (4.3, 8.9) 
5.5 
No epoprostenol 
AUCτ (ng⋅h/ml) 
37.3 (22.3, 52.3) 
36.8 
+ epoprostenol 
AUCτ (ng⋅h/ml) 
33.4 (24.9, 41.9) 
31.1 
Mean (95% CI) 
Median 
Mean (95% CI) 
Median 
Data are body weight and dose-corrected values. 
34 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
Haemodynamics were improved after 12 weeks of Tracleer treatment; a decrease in mean PAP was 
observed in 15/18 patients and an increase in cardiac index in 11/17 patients with measurements. In 
the group as a whole, statistically significant decreases were observed in the following parameters: 
 - mean PAP (mean and median changes of −8.0 and −7.0 mmHg, respectively, p = 0.0003),  
- PVR (−389 and −266 dyn·sec/cm5, p = 0.0021),  
- PVRI (−300 and −274 dyn·sec·m2/cm5, p = 0.0026),  
- mean SAP (−8.6 and −7.0 mmHg, p = 0.0003),  
- SVR (−517 and −322 dyn·sec/cm5, p = 0.0032),  
- SVRI (−426 and −384 dyn·sec·m2/cm5, p = 0.0067). 
Statistically  significant  increases  were  obtained  in  cardiac  output  (0.61  and  0.50 L/min,  p  =  0.0490) 
and stroke index (0.006 and 0.009 ml/m2, p = 0.0267). There was no overall effect on heart rate (−2.4 
and 0.3 bpm, p = 0.6935). 
Haemodynamic variables were generally similar between subpopulations treated with bosentan alone 
and  bosentan+epoprostenol.  Patterns  between  the  two  subpopulations  were  generally  consistent,  but 
there  was  a  larger  percentage  decrease  in  the  PVRI  compared  to  the  SVRI  and  a  larger  percentage 
increase in cardiac index among patients on bosentan alone. Although not significant because of the 
small  number  of  patients,  this  suggests  that  there  may  have  been  a  more  selective  pulmonary 
vasodilation  with  bosentan  alone  than  with  the  combination  therapy.  Additionally,  an  increase  in 
pulmonary arterial oxygen saturation was observed in patients on bosentan alone. 
Exercise parameters were evaluated for exploratory purposes in 12 patients who were at least 8 years 
of age. Changes in exercise test parameters at week 12 from baseline were highly variable and none 
were  significant,  although  some  patients  showed  beneficial  trends.  The  mean  and  median  changes 
from baseline in peak VO2 were 53.0 and −3.5 ml/min, respectively (p = 0.4697). 
The  investigator  based  on  knowledge  of  the  patient  and  parental  input  assessed  WHO  Functional 
Class. During the 12 weeks of treatment 3 patients improved from class III to II, and 2 from class II to 
I.  One  patient  deteriorated  (class  II  to  III).  The  other  13  remained  in  the  same  functional  class  (12 
class II, 1 class III). At one site the investigator chose to reduce the concomitant epoprostenol dose in 
3  patients  with  stable  class  II,  starting  at  Week  13  or  14  of  bosentan  treatment  (not  per  protocol). 
Epoprostenol  dosages  were  gradually  reduced  from  97  to  83,  from  72  to  40  and  from  146.5  to  100 
ng/kg/min/day in the 3 patients, while the protocol-stipulated Tracleer dose was continued. Follow-up 
assessments  in  these  patients  showed  no  deterioration  in  their  clinical  status  (stable  WHO  class  II) 
during or following epoprostenol reduction. 
Safety  
Patients were exposed to bosentan for a mean and median of 23.9 weeks; 13 patients had ≥ 16 weeks 
of treatment, and 9 patients had 6 months of bosentan treatment in the study.  
The  following  AEs  were  considered  probably  or  possibly  related  to  treatment:  abnormal  hepatic 
function  (3  patients),  flushing,  headache,  oedema,  nausea,  hypotension  (1  patient  each),  and  the 
moderate  tachycardia,  hypertension,  tremor,  and  dizziness  in  one  patient  (reported  as  SAEs  because 
they prolonged hospitalisation). Flushing was noted only in patients also on epoprostenol. Aggravated 
PAH, pyrexia, and a variety of infections occurred in 2 patients each. Mild fluid retention was reported 
for 2 patients and moderate oedema for 1; however, unlike in previous studies, it did not occur early in 
treatment but rather after at least 79 days of treatment. The incidences of these and other AEs events 
did not appear to have any relationship to weight group, nor did they particularly occur in the patients 
with the highest exposures (AUC0-∞ and Cmax). No clinically relevant change in mean heart rate or PQ, 
QRS, QT, or QTc interval was observed. 
In  addition,  further  to  the  CHMP  assessment  of  the  ENABLE  studies  the  MAH  was  requested  to 
include  information  for  prescribers  warning  them  of  the  dangers  of  fluid  retention  especially  in 
patients with severe systolic dysfunction. The MAH was also requested to state that no experience is 
35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
available  with  Tracleer  in  patients  with  pulmonary  veno-occlusive  disease  and  that  frequent 
deterioration with massive pulmonary oedema has been reported in response to vasodilators in patients 
with veno-occlusive disease.  
6.2  Discussion 
6.2.1. Efficacy  
Study AC-052-356 (BREATHE-3)  
A small number of children with heterogeneous PAH aetiology have been studied in an open-labelled 
trial with no control group. The data are too limited to conclude on the appropriate dosing in children. 
The  dosage  regimen  was  chosen  in  order  to  obtain  an  exposure  comparable  to  adult  PAH  patients 
treated with 125 mg bid, where efficacy and safety have been demonstrated. This aim has clearly not 
been achieved since the steady state systemic exposure in paediatric patients weighing 10-20 kg, 20-40 
kg and >40kg was 43%, 67% and 75%, respectively, of the adult patient systemic exposure. Exposure 
to  bosentan  also  tended  to  be  lower  compared  to  adult  healthy  volunteers.  Therefore,  the 
pharmacokinetic data suggest that children may receive sub-optimal doses with the investigated dose 
regimen, especially younger children. These findings are reflected in sections 4.2 and 5.2 of the SPC. 
No  effect  of  epoprostenol  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  bosentan  was  expected  given  the  different 
metabolic pathways, routes of administration and that epoprostenol is not known to inhibit cytochrome 
P450  enzymes.  Steady  state  data  indicate  that  the  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  or  without 
epoprostenol is similar. This has been reflected in section 4.5 of the SPC. 
Although  an  improvement  from  baseline  in  haemodynamic  parameters  has  been  observed  based  on 
very limited  measurements, changes in exercise test parameters  were  highly variable  and  none  were 
significant. These findings are reflected in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
The conclusions of the MAH stating that the results of BREATH-3 indicate that the doses of bosentan 
used were appropriate for children with PAH are questionable. The results only suggest that tolerance 
seems to be satisfactory at the experimental dosing schedule, but the rationale for this dosing regimen 
to ensure optimal efficacy has not been demonstrated. In conclusion, based on the kinetic findings in 
children  and  the  limited  efficacy  data  in  this  population,  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  patients  will 
receive sub-optimal doses. The lower AUC in children may be related to increased hepatic metabolism 
and excretion. However, bearing in mind the hepatotoxicity of bosentan (biliary pump mechanism) it 
is not excluded that higher doses will increase liver injury. Thus, whilst the CPMP ackowledges that 
the  information  available  in  children  is  useful,  the  SPC  has  been  revised  to  clearly  reflect  the 
uncertainty in the current knowledge on the appropriate recommendations to be provided. 
Study AC-032-357 
The kinetic data demonstrate that the exposure of bosentan in PAH patients was about two-fold higher 
than in healthy volunteers and is in line with the very limited previous data after iv administration of 
high  doses  in  PAH  patients.  The  exposure  to  metabolites  -  other  than  Ro 47-8634  -  relative  to  the 
exposure  to  bosentan  was  also  higher  than  that  observed  in  healthy  volunteers  and  displayed  large 
inter-subject variability, with a relative exposure to Ro 48-5033 and Ro 64-1056 ranging from 9-130% 
and 6-97%, respectively. This is likely to be of limited relevance for Ro 64-1056 given its low affinity 
for the ET receptor compared with bosentan. On the other hand, Ro 48-5033 has an affinity half that 
of bosentan and is less protein bound (the free fraction is 3 fold higher). Thus, the contribution of Ro 
48-5033 to efficacy in PAH patients may be higher than what was estimated in healthy volunteers. On 
average the contribution was 37% and 29% at the 62.5 mg and 125 mg dose levels respectively, but 
individual data was as high as 163% and 196% at the two dose levels, respectively. Excluding the 3 
patients with highest exposure to  metabolites (and with high pre-dose levels of alkaline phosphatase 
and  bilirubin  indicating  cholestasis),  the  contribution  of  Ro  48-5033  to  effect  was  on  average  about 
25% and ranged up to 49%. Thus, in specific individuals a large part of the effect may be attributed to 
this metabolite. Ro 48-5033 is mainly eliminated by biliary excretion (65% of an oral dose and 48% of 
an i.v. dose is recovered as Ro 48-5033 in faeces), but also to some extent by subsequent metabolism 
36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 to Ro 64-1056 (13% of an oral dose and 18% of an i.v. dose is recovered as 
Ro 64-1056 in faeces). It seems likely that cholestasis could decrease the elimination of Ro 48-5033 
resulting in unexpected high exposure to this active metabolite.  
Section 5.2 of the SPC has been revised to include the additional information on the active metabolite, 
including the relative exposure of patients compared to healthy volunteers, details on its elimination, 
the  possibility  of  increased  exposure  in  patients  with  cholestasis,  and  the  contribution  to  efficacy  in 
PAH patients.  
6.2.2. Safety 
No  new  safety  concern  has  emerged  in  PAH  patients.  Most  SAEs  were  expected  in  this  patient 
population, and the deaths are likely to be a consequence of disease progression. 
Regarding  the  combination  of  Tracleer  and  epoprostenol,  it  has  been  investigated  in  2  studies,  AC-
052-355 (BREATHE-2) and AC-052-356 (BREATHE-3). The combination therapy was well tolerated 
in  children  and  adults,  although  its  clinical  benefit  has  not  been  demonstrated.  This  information  has 
been included in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
7. 
Safety Updates of the SPC and Package Leaflet 
7.1  Changes requested by CPMP following the assessment of the ENABLE studies 
The ENABLE program consists of two independent multicentre studies designed to evaluate the long-
term  effects  of  bosentan  125  mg  b.i.d.  on  clinical  status,  morbidity/mortality,  and  safety  in  patients 
with  chronic  heart  failure  (CHF).  They  are  not  disccused  in  this  EPAR  since  the  applicant  has  not 
requested the indication in CHF. Nonetheless, these studies enlarge the safety database of bosentan in 
the context of the current Marketing Authorisation. 
An increased risk of hospitalisation for CHF, observed mainly during the first 4 - 8 weeks of bosentan 
treatment, questioned the tolerability of bosentan in patients with CHF. The MAH considers that it is 
the  result  of  fluid  retention  early  in  treatment,  as  reflected  in  weight  gain,  decreased  haemoglobin 
concentration  and  increased  incidence  of  peripheral/leg  oedema  among  bosentan-treated  patients 
during this period. In addition, a greater proportion of bosentan-treated patients experienced chest pain 
and unstable angina as SAEs or reasons for hospitalisation, and a slight proportion of bosentan-treated 
patients experienced myocardial infarction. 
It is debatable whether the deleterious effects observed in ENABLE can be extrapolated to the target 
population  of  Tracleer  i.e.  PAH.  The  haemodynamic  conditions  in  PAH  are  not  similar  since  PPH 
induces  right  ventricular  impairment  but  not  left  ventricular  dysfunction.  However,  left  dysfunction 
and coronary disease can be associated with PAH (e.g. patients with scleroderma are predisposed to 
the  occurrence  of  coronary  disease  and  potential  myocardial  infarction).  The  2  controlled  studies 
performed to address safety and efficacy of bosentan in patients with PAH (AC-052-351 and AC-052-
353)  provide  no  information  in  patients  with  post-capillary  pulmonary  hypertension  since  subjects 
with  left  ventricular  dysfunction  (PCWP  measurement  or  echocardiogram)  and  those  with  PAH 
associated  with  pulmonary  venous  hypertension  (e.g.  left  –sided  heart  disease)  or  congenital  heart 
disease were excluded. 
The safety findings of the ENABLE studies have been summarised in section 4.4 of the SPC and an 
appropriate warning and/or precaution for prescribers regarding fluid retention has been included.  
Finally,  a  review  of  the  published  literature  reflecting  the  experience  in  post-capillary  pulmonary 
hypertension shows that frequent deterioration with massive pulmonary oedema has been reported in 
response to  vasodilators in  patients with veno-occlusive  disease. Thus,  a warning  has  been added  in 
case of veno-occlusive disease in section 4.4. of the SmPC informing prescribers that no experience is 
available with Tracleer in patients with pulmonary veno-occlusive disease.  
37 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2  Other safety updates following the assessment of PSURs 
A  statement  regarding  the  co-administration  of  tacrolimus  or  sirolimus  and  bosentan  warning  of  a 
possible  kinetic  interaction  resulting  in  increased  plasma  concentrations  of  bosentan  and  decreased 
levels  of  tacrolimus/sirolimus  has  been  included  in  section  4.5  of  the  SPC.  Patients  in  need  of  the 
combination should be closely monitored for adverse events related to bosentan and for tacrolimus and 
sirolimus blood concentrations. 
As of 13 February 2004, a total of 17 pregnancies have been reported since bosentan was launched, 
including 15 cases associated with maternal exposure. Despite the fact that 3 pregnancies resulted in 
normal babies, the potential risk to humans of taking Tracleer during pregnancy is still unknown and 
Tracleer must therefore still be considered a human teratogen and must not be taken during pregnancy. 
Section 4.6 of the SPC has been updated to reflect that there are minimal data on the use of Tracleer in 
pregnant women from very few cases received in the post-marketing period. 
The following adverse drug reactions (ADRs) have been included in section 4.8 of the SPC and the PL 
to reflect the post marketing experience with the product: 
- 
- 
Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhoea under “Gastrointestinal disorders” 
Aminostransferase  elevations  associated  with  hepatitis  and/or  jaundice  under  “Hepato-biliary 
disorders” 
hypersensitivity reactions including dermatitis, pruritus and rash under “Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders”  
anaphylaxis and/or angioedema under “Immune system disorders”. 
- 
- 
38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
