EMA/551408/2018 
EMEA/H/C/000401 
Tracleer (bosentan) 
An overview of Tracleer and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Tracleer and what is it used for? 
Tracleer is used to treat patients with class III pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) to improve 
exercise capacity (the ability to carry out physical activity) and reduce symptoms. PAH is abnormally 
high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs. The ‘class’ reflects the severity of the disease: 
‘class III’ PAH involves marked limitation of physical activity. The PAH can be: 
• 
• 
• 
primary (with no identified cause or inherited); 
caused by scleroderma (also called systemic sclerosis, a disease where there is abnormal growth of 
the connective tissue that supports the skin and other organs); 
caused by congenital (inborn) heart defects with shunts (abnormal passageways) causing 
abnormal flow of blood through the heart and lungs. 
Some improvement with Tracleer can also occur in patients with class II PAH. ‘Class II’ involves slight 
limitation of physical activity. 
Tracleer can also be used in adults with systemic sclerosis in whom poor blood circulation caused by 
the disease has led to the development of digital ulcers (sores on the fingers and toes). Tracleer is 
given to reduce the number of new digital ulcers. 
Tracleer contains the active substance bosentan. 
How is Tracleer used? 
Tracleer can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should only be started and monitored 
by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of PAH or systemic sclerosis. 
It is available as film-coated tablets (62.5 mg; 125 mg) and as dispersible tablets (32 mg). 
Tracleer is taken morning and evening. In adults, it should be started at a dose of 62.5 mg twice a day 
for four weeks and then increased to the usual dose of 125 mg twice a day. In children with PAH aged 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 year and older, the recommended starting and maintenance dose is 2 mg per kilogram body weight 
twice a day. 
Patients should take the film-coated tablets with water. The dispersible tablets are only for use in 
patients who cannot swallow the film-coated tablets. The dispersible tablets should be mixed with a 
little water on a spoon before being taken. For more information about using Tracleer, see the package 
leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Tracleer work? 
The active substance in Tracleer, bosentan, blocks a naturally occurring hormone called endothelin-1 
(ET-1), which causes blood vessels to narrow. Tracleer therefore prevents blood vessels from 
narrowing. 
In PAH, severe narrowing of the blood vessels in the lungs increases blood pressure and reduces the 
amount of blood entering the lungs. By expanding these blood vessels, pressure is reduced and 
symptoms are improved. 
In patients with systemic sclerosis and digital ulcer disease, there is narrowing of the blood vessels of 
the fingers and toes leading to ulcers. Bosentan improves blood circulation and thereby, prevents the 
development of new digital ulcers. 
What benefits of Tracleer have been shown in studies? 
Treatment of PAH 
In PAH, Tracleer film-coated tablets added to patient’s current therapy was more effective than placebo 
(a dummy treatment) in improving the distance patients could walk in 6 minutes (a way of measuring 
exercise capacity) after 16 weeks of treatment.  
This is based on two studies in a total of 245 adults with class III or IV disease that was either primary 
or caused by scleroderma. In the larger study patients were able to walk 44 metres further. Similar 
results were seen in a study in 54 adults with class III PAH that was associated with congenital heart 
defects. There were too few patients with class IV disease to support the use of the medicine in this 
group. 
In a study in 185 patients with class II disease the distance the patients could walk over 6 minutes was 
similar in the Tracleer and placebo groups. However, Tracleer decreased the resistance to blood flow 
by 23%, indicating a widening of the blood vessels, compared with placebo after 6 months of 
treatment. 
Improvements were also seen in a study of 19 children aged between 3 and 15 years taking the film-
coated tablets.  
Two additional studies looked at the effects of Tracleer dispersible tablets in children: the first study 
included 36 children with PAH aged between 2 and 11 years, while the second study included 64 
children with PAH aged from 3 months up to 11 years. The PAH seemed to remain stable in almost all 
of the children during the 12 or 24 weeks of treatment. 
Treatment of systemic sclerosis with digital ulcers 
Tracleer was more effective than placebo at reducing the development of new digital ulcers based on 
two studies in a total of 312 adults. In the first study, patients taking Tracleer had an average of 1.4 
new digital ulcers after 16 weeks, compared with 2.7 in the patients taking placebo. Similar results 
Tracleer (bosentan)  
EMA/551408/2018 EMA/551408/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
were seen in the second study after 24 weeks. The second study which also looked at the effect of 
Tracleer on digital ulcer healing in 190 patients did not find any effect. 
What are the risks associated with Tracleer? 
The most common side effects with Tracleer (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, fluid retention, anaemia (low levels of haemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that 
carries oxygen around the body) and abnormal results of blood tests to check the liver. For the full list 
of side effects Tracleer, see the package leaflet. 
Tracleer must not be used in patients who have certain liver problems, who are pregnant or could 
become pregnant and who are not using reliable contraceptive methods or who are taking ciclosporin 
(a medicine that acts on the immune system). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Tracleer been approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Tracleer’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tracleer? 
The company that makes Tracleer will provide a patient alert card to remind patients of the need for 
regular blood tests for liver function and to use effective contraception to avoid pregnancy. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tracleer have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Tracleer are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Tracleer are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Tracleer 
Tracleer received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 May 2002.  
Further information on Tracleer can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This medicine overview was last updated in 10-2019. 
Tracleer (bosentan)  
EMA/551408/2018 EMA/551408/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
