SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Tractocile.  For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Tractocile is indicated to delay imminent pre-term birth in pregnant women with: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
regular uterine contractions of at least 30 seconds duration at a rate of ≥ 4 per 30 minutes 
a cervical dilation of 1 to 3 cm (0-3 for nulliparas) and effacement of ≥ 50% 
age ≥ 18 years 
a gestational age from 24 until 33 completed weeks 
a normal foetal heart rate. 
Tractocile  is  administered  intravenously  in  three  successive  stages:  an  initial  bolus  dose  (6.75  mg), 
performed  with  Tractocile  7.5  mg/ml  solution  for  injection,  immediately  followed  by  a  continuous 
high dose infusion (loading infusion 300µg/min) of Tractocile 7.5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for 
infusion during three hours, followed by a lower dose of Tractocile 7.5 mg/ml concentrate for solution 
for infusion (subsequent infusion 100 µg/min) up to 45 hours. The duration of the treatment should not 
exceed 48 hours. The total dose given during a full course of Tractocile therapy should preferably not 
exceed 330 mg of the active substance.  
Tractocile  is  a  new  medicinal  product,  developed  by  Ferring  AB  in  collaboration  with  the  R.W. 
Johnson  Pharmaceuticals  Research  Institute.  It  contains  atosiban,  a  synthetic  peptide  acting  as  an 
oxytocin antagonist. Tractocile is intended for the treatment of pre-term labour (PTL). 
Pre-term birth (i.e. birth before 37 weeks) is a common obstetric condition, occurring in 10-15 percent 
of  all  births;  it  is  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  neonatal  death  and  congenital  neurological 
disability,  including  cerebral  palsy.  Although  the  common  definition  of  pre-term  birth  includes  all 
births before 37 weeks of gestation, births before 32 weeks (about 2% of all births) are responsible for 
most neonatal deaths and pathologies. 
Beta-mimetic  agents  are  currently  widely  used  in  the  treatment  of  pre-term  labour.  Data  from 
randomised  trials  have  suggested  that  beta-mimetic  agents  prolong  pregnancy  for  up  to  48  hours. 
Nevertheless, there is a high rate of major adverse events such as tachycardia (frequent), pulmonary 
oedema,  myocardial  ischemia  (rare)  or  metabolic  changes.  Other  non-utero-specific  agents  as 
magnesium sulphate, calcium channel blockers and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been 
used for tocolysis. 
Atosiban inhibits the action of oxytocin; this hormone mobilises calcium in myometrial cells and starts 
uterine contractions. Using a different mechanism of action, atosiban provides a new approach to the 
treatment of pre-term labour.  
Atosiban is subject to restricted medical prescription: ”Hospital use only”. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Formulation of Tractocile: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
the  active  substance  atosiban  is  present  as  an  acetate  salt  (the  substance  contains  also  water, 
acetic acid and ethanol) corresponding to 7.5 mg/ml of atosiban free base, 
Mannitol -isotonicity agent- (50 mg/ml), 
pH is adjusted to 4.5 with 1 M hydrochloric acid, 
water for injections (to 1 ml). 
The composition used in the clinical trials is identical with the one proposed for marketing. 
1//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tractocile is available in two pharmaceutical forms: 
- 
- 
Solution for injection for intravenous use 7,5 mg/ml, in a vial of 0,9 ml (bolus injection), 
Concentrate for solution for infusion for intravenous use, in a vial of 5 ml (i.v. infusion). 
Primary packaging: 
Clear,  borosilicated,  type  I,  colourless  glass  vials,  sealed  with  grey,  siliconised  bromobutyl  rubber 
stopper, type I, and flip-off cap of polypropylene and aluminium. 
Active substance 
Atosiban  is  a  chemically-synthesised  nonapeptide  of  the  following  formula  [Mpa1,D-Tyr(Et)2,Thr4, 
Orn8] oxytocin.  
The  active  substance  atosiban  employed  for  the  most  of  the  batches  used  in  preclinical  and  clinical 
studies was obtained by solid phase peptide synthesis (SPPS) and after 1994 by liquid phase peptide 
synthesis  (LPPS)  followed  by  a  more  efficient  purification  process.  The  impurity  profiles  obtained 
with the two methods have been shown to be similar. However, the impurity level obtained with the 
LPPS  is  lower.  Thereby,  the  difference  in  manufacture  of  the  active  substance  is  considered  of  no 
clinical importance. 
The starting materials are amino-acid derivates, solvents and other reagents. 
Protected peptide fragments are synthesised by Boc-chemistry, to yield a linear nonapeptide, followed 
by deprotection by reduction with sodium in liquid ammonia and by disulphide formation by iodine 
oxidation.  The  final  purification  involves  dilution  in  ethanol  and  purification  by  ion  exchange 
chromatography  (cation)  and  reverse  phase  chromatography.  Finally  the  active  substance  is 
concentrated  by  reversed  osmosis  and  thereafter  lyophilised.  The  synthesis  has  been  sufficiently 
validated with 4 batches of 2 kg atosiban acetate. 
The  atosiban  molecule  contains  nine  chiral  centres.  The  amino  acid  residues  of  tyrosine,  aspargine, 
cyteine, proline and ornithine have one asymmetrical carbon each and the residues of isoleucine and 
threonine have two each. All of them are in the L-form, except for tyrosine, which is in the D-form. 
The D-form respectively the L-form have not been found in production batches in levels above 0.1%. 
Eleven diastereomers with one chiral centre can potentially be present in the raw material or formed 
during  the  synthesis  of  atosiban.  However,  neither  of  the  epimers  have  been  found  in  concentration 
above 0.1%. Cis-trans isomerisation occurs at the Ys-Pro bond. The trans form is the major form  
Atosiban is a white to off-white, very hygroscopic, freeze-dried amorphous powder, which is soluble 
in  water,  acetic  acid,  0.1  M  ammonium  acetate,  pH  6.0  and  6.8,  methanol,  ethanol  and 
dimethylformamide. 
More than 32 impurities have been observed. 17 of these have been observed at and above 0.1%. The 
structure  of  these  impurities  has  been  established  by  Mass  Spectrometry  and  Nuclear  Magnetic 
Resonance. However, in the full production batches synthesised by the liquid phase peptide route the 
content  of  impurities  is  lower.  Therefore  only  specific  limits  on  9  impurities  have  been  set  and  in 
addition a limit on = 0.1% for other single impurities. Total impurities have been set at a maximum of 
3%. 
Through  studies  of  general  toxicity,  reproduction,  mutagenicity,  carcinogenicity,  the  safety  of  the 
main  synthetic  impurities  and  of  the  degradation  products  in  atosiban  has  been  evaluated,  and  the 
specified limits have been validated on the basis of these studies. 
The active substance contains low or negligible amounts of the residual solvent except for ethanol and 
acetic acid. 
The  results  of  batch  analysis,  including  three  large  scale  batches,  show  good  conformity  with  the 
proposed specification when tested by validated methods. 
Stability:  Three  batches  synthesised  by  LPPS  have  been  stored  in  30  ml  HDPE  bottles  at  different 
conditions. 
The  parameters  tested  were  peptide  content,  peptide  purity,  specific  optical  rotation,  water  content, 
acetic acid/acetate content and appearance. 
2//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
At -20°C and at refrigerator conditions the active substance is relatively stable. At room temperature 
and  specially  when  exposed  to  light  severe degradation does occur.  At real time condition, the total 
content of impurities increases maximal about 0.6%. 
A  retest  period  of  12  months  when  stored  below  8°C  and  protected  from  light  is  suggested  until 
further results are available. 
Other ingredients 
Mannitol  complies  with  the  USP  and  Ph.Eur.  specification  (harmonisation  between  the  two 
monographs, and also with that of the Japanese Ph., is ongoing). 
Water for injections is controlled according to Ph.Eur. 
Product development and finished product 
The  choice  of  the  auxiliary  substance,  i.e.,  mannitol,  confirmed  by  compatibility  studies,  was 
originally  considered  suitable  for  the  freeze  drying  process.  Stability  data  of  the  isotonic  solution 
(osmolarity value 310 mOsm/kg) showed that the Atosiban injection was stable at 5° C for 2 years. 
For  manufacture,  mannitol  is  dissolved  in  water  for  injection.  Atosiban  is  added  to  the  mannitol 
solution and pH is adjusted with hydrochloric acid. The bulk solution is then diluted to final volume 
with water for injection and double sterile filtered (0.22 µm), aseptically filled and sealed. 
Before filling, the vials are rinsed with water for injection and sterilised and depyrogenised by hot air 
in a process shown to achieve an endotoxine reduction of at least 3 log. 
The  rubber  stoppers  are  rinsed  with  water  for  injection  with  silicone  oil  added.  After  rinsing,  the 
stoppers  are  packed  in  autoclave  plastic  bags  and  steam  sterilised  (121°C,  thermal  Fo=20).  A 
compatibility study of the rubber stopper and the finished product has been presented. Calcium, zinc, 
and  aluminium  content  were  determined  on  batches  stored  up  to  39  months  at  5  and  30°C.  Levels 
below 1.9 ppm were observed. 
The compounding and the filling processes are performed in accordance with the GMP. 
The validation of the manufacturing process includes 5 batches of 50 litre each. Three of the batches 
contain atosiban synthesised by the solid phase route and two of the batches atosiban synthesised by 
the liquid phase route. The manufacturing procedure has been shown to be reproducible. 
Specifications:  The  requirements  are considered adequate  to control the finished product. The limits 
on atosiban are 93-107%. The company proposes these limits in stead of ± 5% because the active is 
hygroscopic and electrostatic properties make it difficult to handle. The limits on degradation products 
are increased compared to the active substance. However, these are supported by toxicology studies. 
The total sum of degradation products is set at 1.7 %. The limits for the volume are 0.9-1.2 ml for 0.9 
ml declared volume and 5.0-5.6 ml for 5 ml declared volume. The endotoxin test (limit 12.2 EU/mg 
atosiban) is performed according to the Ph.Eur. method (gel clot method).   
Results  from  24  batches  have  been  presented  including  two  batches  manufactured  with  atosiban 
synthesised with the liquid phase peptide route (production batch size). The results have shown that 
the process is reproducible and the Atosiban solution meets the determined specifications. 
Stability of the finished product: The data generated by five 50 l batches of atosiban injection support 
a minimum 24 month expiry dating if the product is stored at 2-8°C, protected from light. Parameters 
investigated were assay, degradation products, appearance, particular matter, pH. 
The limits for peptide content are 93-107 % at the release and 90-107 % at the shelf life. The limits for 
the sum of the related substances (excluding CAP2, CAP3, CAP5 and CAP26) are 1.5 % at the release 
and 1.7 % at the shelf life. In the specification for the degradation products, CAP4, CAP7, CAP8 and 
CAP44 are included. 
The  stability  of  the  active  ingredient  and  of  the  finished  product  is  well  documented:  the  studies 
support their proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
The compatibility of atosiban with 3 fluids for infusion (5% glucose, Normal saline, Lactated Ringer) 
has been investigated. The compatibility study showed that the solutions were chemically stable for 96 
hours and the proposed shelf life of 24 hours is supported. 
3//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  is  in  general  satisfactory.  The  study  of the peptide 
related  substances  is  comprehensive.  The  result  of  the  synthesis  and  the  purification  processes  for 
atosiban  drug  substance  gives  a  substance,  which  reproducibly  meets  the  quality  specification.  The 
manufacturing process of the finished product is in compliance with GMP.  
Some  additional  confirmation  and  clarification  of  minor  quality  issues  are  requested  as  Follow-up 
Measures. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Atosiban is a synthetic peptide, an oxytocin analogue, designed to inhibit uterine contractions before 
the normal term of pregnancy by acting on oxytocin receptors. 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies  
Receptor binding: 
Arginine-vasopressin  (AVP)  and  oxytocin  (OT)  receptors  are  distinct,  though  structurally  related,  
gene products belonging to the family of G protein-coupled receptors. They are classified as follows 
on the basis of their order of potency (AVP>OT for AVP receptors and OT>VP for OT receptors): 
- 
AVP-VΙ vasopressin receptors, coupled to Gq/11 protein, mediate the contractile effects of AVP 
on vascular smooth muscle and its glycogenolytic response in the liver. VΙΑ receptor mediates 
the vasopressor effect. 
- 
- 
AVP-V2 vasopressin receptors, coupled to Gs protein, mediate the antidiuretic effect.  
OT, oxytocin receptor, coupled to Gq/11 protein, mediate uterine contractions and contractions 
of myoepithelial cells surrounding mammary alveoli which lead to milk ejection. 
Atosiban has been tested in vitro for its affinity on AVP/OT receptors using uterine preparations from 
different animal species, including humans. The overall results clearly demonstrate that atosiban is a 
high-affinity, competitive antagonist, both for OT and AVP receptors. 
The selectivity of atosiban for other peptide or transmitter receptors has been investigated firstly for 
α1-adrenergic,  5-HT1A  and  5-HT2  receptors,  and  then  with  a  broad  receptor  screening  study. 
Atosiban has little or no affinity for the receptors studied. 
 Atosiban  gives  an  appreciable  concentration  of  metabolite  M1.  An  in  vitro  study  using  human 
myometrial  tissue  strips  showed  that  M1  has  the  same  activity  as  atosiban,  since  pA2  are  not 
statistically different.  
Pharmacological activity in vitro: 
The  antagonistic  activity  of  atosiban  has  been  documented  in  vitro  in  isolated tissues from different 
species, including humans. It appears that atosiban is a competitive antagonist of OT and AVP effects 
on  uterine  contractility.  A  quantitative  comparison  of  the  potency  of  atosiban  on  OT  and  AVP 
receptors  is  not  always  possible,  since  in  many  experiments  the  relative  pA2  values  have  not  been 
calculated. 
Atosiban did not modify the basal contractility of the myometrium or angiotensin I and II and PGF2α-
induced uterine activity. 
In vivo studies 
The effect of atosiban on labour has been evaluated in vivo in two animal species: rat and kangaroo. 
Atosiban, given subcutaneously every 5 minutes for 1 hour after the first pup delayed the birth of the 
second pup in a dose-dependant fashion. Continuous i.v. infusion of atosiban (50 µg/kg/min) delayed 
the birth by approximately 1 hour beyond that observed in the vehicle control group. In the kangaroo, 
an  infusion  of  atosiban  3  to  7  days  before  delivery  also  increased  the  duration  of  gestation  without 
effect on the viability and weight of the pups.  
4//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
Behaviour and pain studies in rats and mice did not indicate that atosiban has any important action on 
CNS and autonomic system activity. 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  in  rats,  ewes,  dogs  and  monkey  show  that  the  cardiovascular  and 
pulmonary effects of atosiban are limited and probably without clinical importance. Atosiban did not 
influence  cardiopulmonary  parameters  in  pregnant  and  non-pregnant  animals  but  antagonised 
vasopressin’s effect on the vascular system. The inhibitory potency of atosiban on the OT-stimulated 
uterus is about 40 times its antivasopressor activity. 
Atosiban seems to antagonise the renal effects of oxytocin more than those of vasopressin. The drug 
significantly  increased  urine  elimination  in  overhydrated  animals  but  did  not  antagonise  the 
antidiuretic  activity  of  vasopressine.  Atosiban  neither  changed  sodium  excretion  in  unilaterally 
nephrectomised  rats,  nor  antagonized  vasopressin  action,  but  reversed  OT-induced  natriuresis. 
However,  these  results  in  particular  models  (overhydrated  or  partially  nephrectomized  rats)  do  not 
suggest a major toxicological impact of atosiban in individuals with normal renal function. 
At a dose (0.1 µg/kg) much lower than  needed to inhibit  OT-induced uterine contractions  in female 
rats  atosiban  significantly  lowered  plasma  corticosterone  levels  in  male  rats.  Blood  glucose  levels 
decreased and insulin rose after atosiban in female rats, while the drug did not influence the increase 
of insulin caused by OT (2 ng/kg). 
Atosiban had no effects on non-uterine smooth muscle. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The inhibitory effect of atosiban on in vitro myometrial contraction is potentiated by terbutaline and 
not affected by indomethacin. No in vivo interaction studies have been carried out. 
Comparative effect between SPPS and LPPS atosiban 
Most  preclinical  studies  have  been  performed  with  atosiban  prepared  by  a  solid  phase  peptide 
synthesis (SPPS) which is a different route of synthesis compared to a liquid phase peptide synthesis 
(LPPS) proposed for marketing. In support, the applicant has performed bridging preclinical studies. 
The two methods have been compared in vitro on oxytocin-induced contractions of rat uterine strips 
and  human  myometrial  tissue,  but  no  studies  have  been  done  in  vitro  to  test  the  potency  of  LPPS 
atosiban  on  vasopressin  receptors.  The  two  preparations  have  never  been  directly  compared  in 
experiments on human tissues; indirect comparisons suggest there is no real difference with regard to 
inhibition of the OT effect on human tissue, but direct comparisons on animal tissue suggest potential 
difference. 
 Summary of salient findings 
The  pharmacodynamic  profile  of  atosiban  supports  the  proposed  use  for  inhibiting  pre-term  labour: 
Atosiban  is  a  high-affinity,  competitive,  though  non-selective,  antagonist  of  oxytocin  receptors. 
Atosiban  shows  similar  affinity  for  arginine-vasopressin  (AVP)  receptors.  All  important  functional 
system  have  been  investigated,  and  no  atosiban-induced  effects  that  could  cause safety concerns for 
the proposed human use have been identified. 
However the relative antagonistic potency of the LPPS preparation and the SPPS preparation on OT 
and AVP was not adequately assessed. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  of atosiban have  been carried out in rats, rabbits, dogs, monkeys and ewes. 
The  concentrations  of  atosiban  were  determined  by  validated  RIA  methods.  In  some  studies 
radiolabelled  atosiban  (labelled  on  the  phenyl  nucleus  of  tyrosine)  was  employed.  Several  of  them 
were conducted according to Good Laboratory Practice. No pharmacokinetic studies have been done 
with oral atosiban since the drug was designed for parenteral use. 
Absorption of atosiban after subcutaneous (s.c.) dosing is fast (≤ 30 min) in all species tested (female 
rats, rabbits and dogs). The exposure to the drug after s.c. and i.v. doses does not differ in the dog, but 
in rats the former is lower than the latter. Plasma Cmax and AUC increase almost proportionally with 
5//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
the dose after a single dose in all species. After repeated administration AUC increases proportionally 
with  the  dose  in  the  rabbit,  higher  than  proportionally  in  the  rat.  By  contrast  in  the  dog  the  plasma 
AUC of atosiban decreased after daily doses of 2, 6 and 20 mg/kg. 
Binding to plasma proteins is moderate, the highest value being reached in the dog (37-52%), which is 
close to that reported in man (46-48%). In rats it mainly locates in well-vascularised tissues, less in the 
placenta, and even less in the brain. The foetal-to-maternal AUC ratio averages 0.01-0.02 in rats and 
rabbits and about 0.12 in humans. 
Atosiban  undergoes  sequential  hydrolysis  of  C-terminal  amino  acids.  This  gives  rise  to  several 
metabolites,  which  differ  qualitatively  and  quantitatively  between  species.  M1  metabolite  (arising 
from  the  loss  of  glycine-ornithine  from  the  molecule)  is  the  most  abundant  and  the  only  one  that 
retains biological activity. M1 and M3 are present in human body fluids.  
After  i.v.  injection  in  the  rat  atosiban  is  excreted  predominantly  in  the  faeces  (54%  vs.  24%  in  the 
urine at 24 hours); doses comparable to therapeutic ones are excreted almost completely within  
72 hours. In the dog elimination in the urine equals that in the faeces. 
Excretion of atosiban in the milk has not been investigated in animals. 
Toxicology 
The toxicity of atosiban was studied in mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, and dogs. Bridging studies of 
acute and repeated toxicity demonstrated that the toxic potential of the compound used in these tests, 
prepared  by  solid  phase  peptide  synthesis  (SPPS),  did  not  differ  markedly  from  that  of  the  product 
subsequently developed by a liquid phase peptide synthesis (LPPS). 
Single dose toxicity  
The  maximum  non-lethal  dose  in  rats/mice  (100  mg/kg  i.v.)  is  about  20  to  40  times  the  therapeutic 
dose  (5.5  mg/kg  in  women  of  60  kg  b.w.  over  48-hour  treatment  and  2.5  mg/kg  over  18  hour 
treatment). The intravenous dose of 10 mg/kg was well tolerated in female mice and rats. Single-dose 
toxicity  studies  demonstrated  a  moderate  acute  toxicity  of  atosiban  with  clinical  signs  related  to  the 
CNS, for example, in mice, tremors, decreased activity, ptosis and urine-stained coats were observed. 
In  rats,  sometimes,  irritation,  oedema,  erythema,  ulceration  and  necrosis  were  found  at  the  injection 
site, probably due to atosiban diffusion into adjacent tissue and consequent vascular leakage.  
In dogs the single intravenous dose of 10 mg/kg was well tolerated.  
Repeat dose toxicity  
Atosiban given daily to rats for two weeks did not induce systemic toxicity at doses up to 250 µg/kg 
(i.v. bolus) or 38.4 mg/kg (i.v. infusion ∼10 times the daily dose in women). However, three out of 10 
rats died in the highest dose group, while one animal died in the two lower dose groups and one in the 
control group. 
Daily subcutaneous doses up to 20 mg/kg (for two week) in rats induced dose-related irritation at the 
injection  site  and  primarily  pharmacological  effects.  Irritation  at  the  injection  site  was  mainly 
swelling,  ulceration  and  scab  formation  at  all  doses  (>  2  mg/kg).  The  severity  and  incidence  of 
irritation  increased  with  the  dose  and  the  microscopic  findings  were  fibroplasia  associated  with 
varying degrees of oedema, inflammation, and necrosis. The necrosis often led to loss of subcutaneous 
fat  tissue  (panniculus).  After  the  recovery  period  fibroblast  proliferation  was  still  evident  in  the 
subcutaneous tissue. Mild to moderate decreases in total protein, albumin, urine volume, and increased 
urine osmolality and/or specific gravity were observed at 20 mg/kg. These observations are related to 
the antidiuretic activity of atosiban at these high dosages. 
In rabbits at doses up to 250 µg/kg (i.v. bolus – for two weeks) only mild discoloration at the injection 
site was observed. 
In dogs, i.v. infusion of atosiban at doses up to 0.04 mg/kg/mn, 16 h/day for 14 days (38.4 mg/kg/day, 
equivalent  to  10  times  the  human  dose)  was  well  tolerated  and  did  not  cause  deaths  or  reduce  the 
animals’ activity. Results in controls and atosiban-treated groups were similar, except for emesis. In 
dogs,  s.c.  administration  of  atosiban  (up  to  20  mg/kg/d  for  two  weeks)  provoked  granulomatous 
inflammation  at  the  injection  site  at  all  doses  >  2 mg/kg;  inflammation resolved completely in  dogs 
6//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
given  2  and  6  mg/kg/day  and  partially  at  20  mg/kg.  Increased  activities  of  liver  enzymes  were 
observed  at  the  highest  dose  after  6  and  13  weeks  of  treatment,  without  concomitant  histological 
changes in the liver. 
Furthermore,  the  Applicant  presented  two  other  studies  in  sheep:  continuous  infusion  of  atosiban  to 
the foetus in utero in an acute (3 h, with doses up to about 6 µg/kg/min) and a repeated-dose study  
(14  days,  with  dose  allowing  to  reach  concentrations  between  18.6  and  26.3  ng/ml).  Sheep  were 
chosen because the development of sheep kidneys resembles human foetal development more closely 
than the species commonly used in pregnancy toxicology. 
In summary, no major unexpected toxicological findings were associated with repeated administration 
of  atosiban  in  rats  and  dogs  at  dosages  up  to  20  mg/kg.  Dose-related  irritation  was  the  major 
toxicological  finding  in  both  species.  In  rat,  atosiban  induced  an  antidiuretic  effect  high  doses.  The 
NOAEL was 6 mg/kg/day in the rat and 6 mg/kg/day in the dog 13-weeks subcutaneous studies. 
Genotoxicity  
A complete battery of in vitro and in vivo tests was run to assess the mutagenic potential of atosiban: 
bacterial gene mutation (Salmonella typhimurium and E. coli), mammalian cell gene mutation at the 
hypoxanthine-guanine  phosphoribosyl  transferase  (HGPRT)  locus  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO) 
cells, unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) in rat hepatocytes in vitro, chromosomal aberrations in CHO 
cells in vitro and in vivo micronucleus test in mouse with doses up to 150 mg/kg i.v. 
Atosiban had no mutagenic effects on microbial or mammalian cells in vitro with or without metabolic 
activation. 
In  the  bone  marrow  micronucleus  in  vivo  test  in  mice,  the  drug  did  not  increase  the  number  of 
micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes. The high dose of atosiban induced marked bone marrow 
toxicity,  reducing  the  ratio  of  polychromatic-to-normochromatic  erythrocytes,  indicating  sufficient 
exposure to the test compound. 
In general, atosiban appears to lack any genotoxic potential. 
Carcinogenicity:  
Carcinogenic effects were ruled out in a two-year study in female rats exposed to daily s.c. doses up to 
15 mg/kg.  The  highest  tolerated  dose  of  atosiban  was  based  on  the  severity  of  the  local  irritation 
observed in three months’ treatment with 20 mg/kg. 
There were no treatment related deaths and body weight gain was not affected by atosiban. Irritation at 
the  injection  site  was  found  in  all  groups  including  the  vehicle  controls,  but  necrosis,  ulcers, 
thickening and oedema were observed at the highest dose. An increase of benign fibromas (incidence 
6% vs. 0%)  and malignant fibrosarcomas (29% vs. 0%) was found  at the injection sites of the same 
group  in  comparison  to  the  vehicle  controls.  Rodents,  however,  are  particularly  prone  to  local 
sarcomas induced by repeated injection of irritating materials. 
The NOAEL in the two year study was 2.5 mg/kg, far above the maximum possible load in women in 
the very short course of administration (≤ 48 h). 
Reproduction Toxicity  
1. 
Fertility and general reproductive performance were not investigated considering the proposed 
utilisation of atosiban. 
The evaluation of the teratogenic/embryotoxic potential of atosiban given subcutaneously to rats  
(25, 50 and 100 mg/kg on days 6 to 17 of gestation) and rabbits (10, 25 and 50 mg/kg on days 7 to 19 
of gestation) showed a dose-related irritation at the site of injection in rats (at 50 and 100 mg/kg), but 
no drug-related effects on reproductive or foetal parameters; in rabbits, no maternal or embryo-foetal 
toxicity  was  found.  In  rats,  the  NOAEL  was  25  mg/kg  and  100  mg/kg  for  dams  and  foetuses 
respectively, and in rabbits and 50 mg/kg for both maternal and embryotoxic/teratogenic effects. 
In the first subcutaneous study, very high dosages (100-, 200- and 300 mg/kg/day – from day 15 to 20 
of  gestation)  were  used,  resulting  in  severe  dosage-related  dermal  irritation  in  the  dams  and 
concomitant  impairment  of  body  weight  gain.  At  200-  and  300  mg/kg/day,  effects  on  viability  and 
growth, and transient effects on development, were observed in the pups. 
7//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
In  intravenous  studies,  there  were  no  significant  findings  up  to  doses  as  high  38.4 mg/kg/day (from 
day  15  to  20  of  gestation).  An  increase  in  the  incidence  of  dead  pups  in  the  infusion  studies  was 
attributed to complications associated with the infusion procedure.  
In order to mimic the administration of atosiban in women towards the end of pregnancy, female rats 
were treated from day 15 to day 21. At high doses (200 and 300 mg/kg/day) the greater mortality of 
the pups might be due to irregular lactation (retention of milk in the first days after delivery) and/or 
maternal care.  In these studies the NOAEL of atosiban was 100 mg/kg for adverse effects on dams 
and the litter. 
The highest mean blood concentrations, Cmax of atosiban were 8872, 13625 and 20001 ng/ml in dams 
and  75,  107  and  106  ng/ml  in  foetuses  respectively  for  dosages  of  100,  200  and  300  mg/kg/day, 
indicating a limited and saturable placental transfer of the drug. 
Local Tolerance 
Local tolerance studies were conducted in female rats, dogs and rabbits using either the subcutaneous 
or the intramuscular route. 
Single s.c. doses of  = 25 mg/ml or higher caused irritation in  rats without signs of necrosis. Doses of 
12.5,  25  and  50  mg/kg  proportionally  increased  a  subcutaneous  irritation  and  degeneration  of  the 
panniculus in rats, and this was reversible by day 8 in the low-dose group. 
Studies in dogs (s.c.) and rabbits (i.m) showed moderate to mild irritation. 
Other toxicity (antigenicity, immunotoxicity and dependence) studies 
An antigenicity study in guinea pigs and a passive cutaneous anaphylaxis test in rats did not elicit any 
positive response. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Atosiban is a high-affinity, competitive, though non-selective, antagonist of oxytocin (OT) receptors 
and  arginine-vasopressin  (AVP)  receptors.  All  important  functional  systems  have  been  investigated, 
and  no  atosiban-induced  effects  that  could  cause  safety  concerns  for  the  proposed  human  use  have 
been identified. The metabolite M1 appears to have a similar pharmacological potency as the parent 
compound. 
However,  the  relative  antagonistic  potency  of  the  liquid-phase  peptide  synthesis  preparation  (LPPS, 
intended  for  human  use)  and  the  solid-phase  peptide  synthesis  preparation  (SPPS,  employed  in  pre-
clinical in vitro tests) on human OT and AVP receptors is still not known. The two preparations have 
never been directly compared in experiments on human tissues; indirect comparisons suggest there is 
no real difference with regard to inhibition of the OT effect on human tissue, but direct comparisons 
on animal tissue suggest potential difference. 
Absorption  of  atosiban  after  s.c.  administration  is  fast  (≤  30  min)  in  all  species  tested  (female  rats, 
rabbits and dogs). 
Atosiban  undergoes  sequential  hydrolysis  of  C-terminal  amino  acids.  This  gives  rise  to  several 
metabolites;  among  those  the  most  abundant,  M1  metabolite  is  the  only  one  that  retains 
pharmacological activity. M1 and M3 are present in human body fluids. 
After  i.v.  injection  in  the  rat  atosiban  is  excreted  predominantly  in  the  faeces  (54%  vs.  24%  in  the 
urine  at  24  hours);  doses  comparable  to  therapeutic  ones  are  excreted  almost  completely  within  72 
hours. In the dog elimination in the urine equals that in the faeces. 
Excretion of atosiban in the milk has not been investigated in animals. 
Toxicity studies showed toxic effects only at doses with acceptable margins to the planned therapeutic 
dose range. There is no concern for target organ toxicity. 
Reproduction toxicology studies did not identify cause for concerns for the proposed human use. 
No  genotoxic  potential  of  atosiban  was  identified  in  a  battery  of  tests.  The  carcinogenic  potential 
(sarcomas  at  the  injection  site)  identified  in  female  rats  at  very  high  doses  is  not  relevant  for  the 
human situation. 
8//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
All  local  tolerance  and  antigenicity  studies  have  proved  that  atosiban  does  not  provoke  strong 
reactions  in  animal  and  suggest  atosiban  is  not  likely  to  provoke  topical  adverse  reactions  during 
therapy. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Atosiban is an antagonist of oxytocin receptors. 
The approved indication is: 
“Atosiban is indicated for delay of imminent premature birth in pregnant women with: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
regular uterine contractions of at least 30 seconds duration at a rate of ≥ 4 per 30 minutes, 
a cervical dilation of 1 to 3 cm (0-3 for nulliparas) and effacement of ≥ 50%, 
age ≥18 years, 
a gestational age from 24 until 33 completed weeks, 
a normal foetal heart rate.” 
Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic data have been provided from both studies in healthy women 
and  in  women  with  preterm  labour.  The  clinical  documentation  includes  three  small  dose-selection 
studies.  Documentation  of  efficacy  is  based  on the CAP-001 studies, three randomised double-blind 
trials  of  atosiban  vs.  three  different  beta-mimetics,  ritodrine,  terbutaline  and  salbutamol.  The  single 
studies  were  designed  so  as  to  allow  a  final  pooled  comparative  analysis  of  atosiban  and  beta-
mimetics.  In  CAP-001,  361  patients  received  atosiban.  Information  on  safety  is  available  for  1260 
atosiban treated women.  
Clinical pharmacology 
Primary  pharmacodynamics  were  studied  in  healthy  women  and  in  women  with  premature  labour. 
Pharmacokinetics  of  atosiban  has  been  investigated  in  both  normal  healthy  women  and  pregnant 
women. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Some of the clinical pharmacology studies were conducted in the mid 1980s prior to GCP regulation. 
Primary effects in healthy women 
Two studies from the late 1980s in menstruating healthy women used infusion of lysine vasopressin, 
which induces an increase in uterine activity and dysmenorrhoea-like symptoms. Atosiban and other 
oxytocin/vasopressin  receptor  antagonists  were  given  as  i.v.  bolus  (10µg/kg).  As  assessed  by 
recording  intrauterine  pressure,  atosiban  was  the  most  effective  in  terms  of  complete  inhibition  of 
contractions during the first 10 minutes after injection and had also the longest duration of inhibition 
(40-50  min).  Vasopressin  induced  contractions  are  associated  with  a  decrease  in  endometrial  blood 
flow. Atosiban resulted both in an increase in uterine blood flow and relief of the dysmenorrhoea-like 
symptoms. 
Another early study investigated atosiban’s effect on primary dysmenorrhoea. The same dose as bolus 
was  compared  in  a  double-blind  placebo  controlled  crossover  study.  Atosiban  induced  a  short  pain 
relief (30 min). 
Primary effects in women with premature labour 
Two pilot studies published 1987 and 1989 were conducted in patients with preterm labour (PTL) with 
atosiban at varying infusion rates and duration. None of the early clinical studies have established the 
optimal dosing schedule. 
The first included 13 women with PTL (28-36 weeks GA) who were treated with atosiban at infusion 
rates  of  10-100  µg/min  for  1-10  hours.  A  marked  decrease  of  uterine  contractions  on  tochographic 
recording was observed in all patients with 6/13 having a total inhibition of contractions at an infusion 
rate  of  25  to  100  µg/min  over  2  to  10  hours.  Atosiban  had  no  adverse  effects  on  maternal  or  foetal 
heart rate and maternal blood pressure was unaffected. 
The second study included 12 women (27-36 weeks GA). Atosiban was given at infusion rates of  25-
100 µg/min for 1.5-13 hours. Complete tocolysis was achieved in 6/12 patients at an infusion rate of 
9//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
25 to 100 µg/min over 8 to 13 hours. At these infusion rates atosiban was quite safe with no maternal 
or foetal adverse effects. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics  of  atosiban  has  been  investigated  in  both  non-pregnant  and  pregnant  women. 
Placental  transfer  of  atosiban  has  also  been  studied.  Plasma  kinetics  have  been  studied  both  with 
single i.v. bolus and different infusion schemes. Some of the studies also included kinetics after s.c. 
administration and one of the very early studies included intranasal administration. 
Except  earlier  studies,  plasma  concentrations  were  assayed  with  radioimmunoassay  using  a  specific 
antibody. 
Absorption/distribution 
The bioavailability of atosiban is poor after intranasal administration. In contrast, high (97±17 %) and 
linear  to  the  dose  absorption  was  demonstrated  after  s.c.  administration,  though  with  some  inter-
subject variability. 
Following i.v. administration, steady state concentrations are rapidly reached (≤ 2 h) in non-pregnant 
women. In healthy non-pregnant subjects receiving atosiban infusions (10 to 300 µg/min over  
12 hours), the steady state plasma concentrations increased proportionally to the dose. 
In women in preterm labour receiving atosiban by infusion (300 µg/min for 6 to 12 hours), steady state 
plasma concentrations were reached within one hour following the start of the infusion (mean  
442 ± 73 ng/ml, range 298 to 533 ng/ml). 
The half-life, volume of distribution and clearance were found to be independent of the dose. 
 According to a study using a non-specific antiserum, after i.v. injection atosiban distributes according 
to  a  two-compartment  model.  The  alfa-phase  is  fast  (mean  8  min)  and  limited  to  body  water  with 
minor tissue binding. 
Plasma protein binding of atosiban is 46 to 48 % in pregnant women. It is not known whether the free 
fractions in the maternal and foetal compartment differ substantially. 
Atosiban does not partition into red blood cells. 
Atosiban  passes  the  placenta.  Following  an  infusion  of  300  µg/min  in  healthy  pregnant  women  at 
term, the foetal/maternal atosiban concentration ratio was 0.12. The major metabolite M1 also crosses 
the placenta. 
Small  amounts  of  atosiban  have  been  shown to  pass from plasma into the milk  of lactating  women. 
Metabolite M1 is also excreted in milk. The plasma/milk ratio and the absolute concentrations in the 
milk of atosiban and its active metabolite M1 are not known. 
Metabolism 
Atosiban  gives  two  main  metabolites,  M1  and  M3,  identified  in  plasma  and  urine  samples  of  non-
pregnant  and  pregnant  women.  M1  but  not  M3  is  pharmacologically  active  in  animals.  The  ratio  of 
M1  to  atosiban  plasma  concentrations  ranged  from  0.8-3.3  at  different  times  and  after  different 
dosages. It is not known whether M1 accumulates in tissues. In foetal plasma samples the ratio of M1 
to atosiban averaged 1.8. No absolute values are provided for maternal and foetal M1 plasma levels. 
M3 was detected in small amounts in plasma and urine of 23 pregnant women. 
Elimination 
The parent compound is found in only small quantities in urine, where its concentration is about  
50 times lower than that of M1. The proportion of atosiban eliminated in faeces is not known. 
Plasma  clearance  of  atosiban  is  independent  of  the  dose  and  ranged  from  23  to  39  l/min  in  healthy 
volunteers  and  42  to  47  l/min  in  pregnant  women  enrolled  in  different  studies.  Elimination  half-life 
varied widely in studies in non-pregnant volunteers (from 15 to 80 min) and was longer in pregnant 
women (102±18 min). 
In healthy subjects the elimination half-life (t1/2β) of atosiban after different i.v. doses differed widely 
among studies: from 15±2.4 min to 79.7±15.6 min.  
10//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
After 7.5, 15 and 30 mg s.c. the elimination half-life was two-fold longer than after 7.5 mg i.v. The 
elimination half-life was significantly longer during pregnancy: 102±18 min. 
There are no data from special populations (renal or hepatic impairments). This lack of experience has 
been stated in the SPC. 
Interaction studies: 
Two in vitro studies have assessed the effects on selected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes in human liver 
microsomes. The results indicated that atosiban is unlikely to cause significant inhibition of CYP1A2, 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 activities in vivo. 
The  possible  interaction  between  atosiban  and  antibiotics,  antihypertensives  (including  diuretics), 
ergot  alkaloids,  or  steroids  was  investigated  by  logistic  regression  analysis  using  the  data  from  the 
three CAP-001 studies. The apparent lack of interaction cannot be considered definitive because of the 
scant data. This lack of data is stated in the SPC and the Marketing Authorisation Holder will further 
investigate  the  possible  interactions  between  atosiban  and  antibiotics,  antihypertensive  agents,  ergot 
alkaloids and steroids. 
Clinical efficacy  
Three dose-selection studies are included. 
The  efficacy  claim  is  based  on  the  results  of  three  pivotal  double-blind  controlled  trials,  and 
particularly on their pooled analysis (Protocol CAP-001), comprising 733 patients. The results of two 
other  studies,  a  placebo  controlled  one  (PTL  096)  and  an  open  label  one  (PTL-098),  are  also 
presented. These studies are presented in the table below: 
Study 
CAP 001/atosiban vs 
ritodrine 
CAP 001/atosiban vs 
terbutaline  
CAP 001/atosiban vs 
salbutamol 
PTL 096 atosiban vs 
placebo 
PTL 098 atosiban in acute phase 
Type of trial 
No patient
/treatments 
Atb: 126 
Rti: 121 
Atb: 119 
Terb: 122 
Atb: 107 
Salb: 107 
Atb: 250 
Pbo: 251 
Atb: 649  Open-label  acute 
double blind, double dummy randomised trial 
double blind, double dummy randomised trial 
double  blind,  double  dummy,  randomised 
trial 
Double  blind,  double  dummy,  placebo-
controlled randomised trial 
treatment.  Successfully 
treated  patients  continued  in  a  randomised 
double-blind 
placebo 
controlled phase. 
parallel-group, 
All studies of CAP-001 were conducted in accordance with the GCP requirements. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
Dose response studies 
A  randomised,  double-blind  study  compared  placebo  and  atosiban 300 µg infusion for  two  hours  in 
patients with PTL, 59 patients in each treatment arm. 5 different protocols were used. A reduction of 
40%  or  greater  in  number  of  uterine  contractions  was  seen  in  43  of  56  atosiban  treated  (76.8%) 
compared to 18 of 56 placebo treated (32,1%) The number of contractions decreased 55.3+36.3% and 
26.7+40,4%  respectively  in  the  two  groups.  Atosiban  was  only  statistically  significantly  superior  to 
placebo  in  GA  >  31  weeks,  whereas  placebo  was  better,  although  not  statistically  significant,  in  a 
small  group  with  a  GA<  28  weeks  (n=14).  Four  patients  in  the  atosiban  group  developed  either 
vomiting, diarrhoea or nausea compared to 1 in the placebo group.  
Open study of Atosiban infusion 300 µg/min in 62 patients with PTL. Due to the lack of control group 
and variations in the inclusion criteria, the study contains little information. 
11//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  recommended  posology  has  been  mainly  selected  on  a  dose finding study  (L91/049) conducted 
after the two above-mentioned phase II studies. 
In  the  L91-049  study,  the  patients  were  randomly  allocated  to  one  of  the  four  atosiban  schedules 
groups or to one open-label ritodrine group as follows: 
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
atosiban 6.5 mg bolus + 300 µg/m infusion; 
placebo bolus + atosiban 300 µg/min infusion; 
atosiban 2 mg bolus + 100 µg/min infusion;  
atosiban 0.6 mg bolus + 30 µg/min infusion; 
ritodrine. 
Atosiban infusion was continued for up to 12h, if useful. 
The  bolus  was  given  in  order  to  achieve  target  plasma  concentrations  of  atosiban  sooner  than  with 
infusion alone. The results of L91-049 study are shown in the table below. 
 Summary of efficacy results in study L91-049 
6.5 mg + 
300 µg/min 
(N=63) 
36/63 
(57.1%) 
Placebo  +        
300 µg /min 
(N=59) 
35/58 
(60.3%) 
2 mg +  
100 µg /min 
(N=64) 
42/64 
(65.6%) 
0.6 mg +  
30 µg /min  
(N=58) 
29/58 
(50.0%) 
Ritodrine  
(N=58) 
41/58 
(70.7%) 
3.0±2.4 
4.9±3.2 
4.4±3.4 
4.8±3.0 
2.6±2.0 
43/61 
(70.5%) 
41/58 
(70.7%) 
44/63 
(69.8%) 
32/56 
(57.1%) 
44/56 
(78.6%) 
42/63 
(66.7%) 
34/59 
(57.6%) 
41/64 
(64.1%) 
34/58 
(58.6%) 
34/58 
(58.6%) 
Proportion of subjects 
whose contractions 
stopped during treatment
Time to stopping of 
contractions (Wilcoxon 
rank sum test) in hours 
Proportion of subjects 
with contractions of 
≤4/h at end of treatment 
Proportion of subjects 
with labour arrested for 
two days 
The above data suggest that 6.5 mg + 300 µg/min take less time to stop contraction than placebo  
+ 300 µg/min, 2 mg + 100 µg/min or 0.6 mg + 30 µg/min, but the findings regarding the proportions 
of women whose contractions stopped during treatment, with contractions =4/h at the end of treatment 
or with labour arrested for two days, do no show any clear pattern. Due to the small sample the large 
CI  of  these  proportions  do  not  allow  any  firm  conclusion.  Furthermore,  the  importance  of  reducing 
time to stopping contraction as a clinical outcome is questionable. For example, in this trial ritodrine 
was superior to 6.5 µg + 300 µg/min of atosiban in stopping contraction early. 
On this basis, the company chose to investigate the following dose regimen: Single bolus injection of 
6,75  mg  followed  by  a  rapid  infusion  of  300  µg/min  for  3  hours,  after  that  the  infusion  rate  was 
decreased to 100 µg/min for up to 48 hours. 
Main study: Protocol CAP-001 
CAP-001  consists  of  three  phase  III,  multicentre,  multinational,  double  blind,  double  dummy, 
randomised parallel group, controlled trials. The three CAP-001 studies have a similar general design. 
However  the  comparison  groups  differ,  using  three  beta  mimetic  drugs:  ritodrine,  terbutaline  and 
salbutamol. The three studies were conducted between 1992 and 1997. A pooled analysis of the three 
studies  was  planned  before  they  were  started.  Randomisation  was  stratified  according  to  GA  >  28 
weeks and < 28 weeks.  
12//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The three CAP-001 studies enrolled women with: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
PTL diagnosed by the presence of regular uterine contractions of at least 30 seconds duration at 
a rate of =4 per 30 minutes confirmed by external tocography, cervical dilatation of 1-3 cm and 
effacement of =50% (0-3 cm cervical dilatation for nulliparae); 
age =18 years or age of legal consent; 
GA between 23-33 completed weeks; 
ultrasound-confirmed normal presentation of one or two normal foetuses. 
Seven hundred and forty-two patients were enrolled and 733 received study drug treatment (361 with 
Atosiban  and  372  with  beta-mimetics).  Atosiban  was  administered  in  the  dose  regimen  intended  for 
marketing authorisation: Single bolus injection of 6,75 mg followed by a rapid infusion of 300 µg/min 
for 3 hours, after that the infusion rate was decreased to 100 µg/min for up to 48 hours. The duration 
of  infusion  was  up  to  18  hours  in  the  Ritodrine  and  Terbutaline  studies  and  up  to  48  hours  in  the 
Salbutamol study. 
For  ethical  reasons  patients  could  be  treated  with  rescue  treatment  with  an  alternative  tocolytic  if 
required. 
Retreatments were allowed with the same study medication provided that no alternative treatment was 
given  and  the  GA  was  below  34  weeks.  Patients  who  discontinued  due  to  adverse  events  were  still 
eligible for re-treatment unless they fulfilled the criteria for initial treatment failure. 
The primary parameter of efficacy considered was the time to failure (TTF), defined as the time from 
the start of study therapy to treatment failure, defined as the earlier of either: 
• 
• 
the time point for the first alternative tocolytic therapy; 
or delivery. 
The analysis focussed on the proportion of women with TTF>7 days. 
The sample size of the CAP-001 studies was based on the proportion of patients delivering within  
7 days from treatment. 
 Secondary efficacy endpoints included: 
- 
- 
- 
TTF > 48 hours, 
Gestational Age at delivery, 
Initial treatment failure/success during the first cycle defined as the proportion of patients who 
were initial treatment successes after completion of drug administration (defined as a reduction 
in the progression of labour). 
Other variables were: Time to delivery TTD, Time to alternative tocolytic (TTAT), Number of days to 
first recurrence, only for patients with initial treatment success in the first cycle. 
Other  secondary  objectives  were  to  compare:  Infant  birth  weight,  Number  of  days  in  neonatal 
intensive  care  and  number  of  days  spent  on  a  ventilator,  Total  number  of  days  spent  in  a  nursery, 
Frequency of hyaline membrane disease, Frequency of major illness/handicaps, Number of deaths. 
Results of the individual trials according selected endpoints (ITT analysis): 
Protocol CAP-001\C and I 
Number of patients in the ITT population 
Early terminations 
48 hour treatment success (TTF > 48h) 
TTF > 7 days 
TTF, Gain in GA (days), median 
Median time to delivery, (days) 
*  Ritodrine  was  initially  infused  at  a  rate  of  0,1  mg/min,  the  dose  gradually  increased  until 
contractions  stopped  or  the  maximal  dose  of  0,35  mg/min  was  reached.  The  infusion  was 
continued  at  the  maximally  effective  dose  for  a  period  of  12  hours.  The  duration  of  drug 
treatment was up to 18 hours, mean 14 hours. 
0.241 
0.017 
0.049 
Ritodrine* 
114 
40.5% 
75 (65.8%) 
61 (53.5%) 
11.9 
37.2 
Atosiban 
118 
23.9% 
86 (72.9%) 
77 (65.2%) 
37.9 
34.0 
P 
13//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol CAP-001\UK and S 
Number of patients in the ITT population 
Early terminations 
48 hours success (TTF > 48 h) 
TTF > 7 days 
TTF, Gain in GA (days), median 
Median time to delivery (days) 
* Terbutalin was given at an initial rate of 5-10 µg/min, with increments every 10-20 minutes to a 
maximum  of  20-25  µg/min.  The  maximal  effective  dose  was  continued  for  12  hours,  the  total 
infusion time was not to exceed 18 hours. 
Terbutaline* 
121 
18.6 % 
68.6 % 
52 (43.0%) 
4.3 
35.5 
Atosiban 
113 
22.4  % 
72.3 % 
62 (55.4%) 
14.4 
43.0 
0.534 
0.094 
0.293 
P 
Protocol CAP-001\A and F 
Number of patients in the ITT population 
Early terminations 
48 hours treatment success (TTF > 48 h) 
TTF > 7 days 
TTF, Gain in GA (days), median 
Median time to delivery (days) 
* Salbutamol infusion was started with an initial rate of  2,5-5 µg/min and increased gradually to a 
maximum  of  25 or  45 µg/min.  The  maximal infusion  rate was continued for  24 hours, the  total 
infusion time maximally 48 hours corresponding to the study duration. 
Salbutamol* 
108 
13.9 % 
74.8% 
50 (46.7%) 
5.3 
45.5 
Atosiban  
107 
16.8 % 
78.5% 
62 (57.9%) 
13.5 
45.3 
0.518 
0.041 
0.0590 
P 
Discontinuations due to insufficient efficacy (CAP-001 studies) 
Study 
CAP-001\Ritodrine 
CAP-001\Terbutaline 
CAP-001\Salbutamol 
Pooled analysis 
Results of the pooled analysis 
Atosiban 
Beta-mimetics 
18 % 
9 % 
13 % 
14 % 
10 % 
5 % 
6 % 
6 % 
Overall  the  efficacy  analysis  of  CAP-001  studies  enrolled  681  patients,  similarly  distributed  in  the 
three studies. 
The  proportion  of  discontinuations  due  to  insufficient  efficacy  was  14  %  in  the  Atosiban  group 
compared to 6 % in the Beta-mimetics group (as described in the previous table). 
The pooled analysis of CAP-001 studies showed that the proportion of women with TTF > 7 days was 
higher in the atosiban than the beta-mimetics group (201/337 [59.6%] with atosiban, 163/342 [47.7%] 
with beta-mimetics, OR 1.62. 95% CI 1.18-2.23, p=0.002). 
The median number of days from initiation of therapy to treatment failure was longer in the Atosiban 
group (19.3 days) than in the Beta-mimetics group (5.53 days), (p=0.0082). The TTF>48 hours was 
higher in the Atosiban group (74.5% versus 69.3%, p=0,038). 
No improvement was observed in the pooled analysis in mean gestation age at delivery or in foetal or 
infant  main  outcome  parameters  (birth  weight,  survival,  frequency  of  respiratory  distress  syndrome 
(RDS), intracranial haemorrhage). 
Atosiban 
ßeta-mimetic 
Mean gestational age at delivery 
(days)* 
Mean birth weight (g)** 
Infant  deaths (%)** 
249 
2490 
1.2 
247 
2461 
2.3 
14//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequency of RDS (%)** 
Intracranic haemorrhage (%)** 
19 
4 
20 
5 
*   based on efficacy population: Atosiban; 337 women, ß-mimetic; 341. 
** based on safety population: Atosiban; 406 infants, ß-mimetic; 432 
Results in early gestational age 
The  CAP-001  studies  showed  that  the  probability  of  TTF  >7  days  was  not  statistically  significantly 
higher among women at gestational age <28 weeks (51,6% in atosiban group compared to 32.8 % in 
beta-mimetics  group,  OR  2.43,  95%  CI  0.91-6.47,  p=0.076),  while  it  was  so  in  later  stages  of 
pregnancy (OR 1.62, 95% CI 1.13-2.24, p=0.009). Notably the three CAP-001 studies included only 
129  patients  at  gestational  age  <28  weeks  who  were  randomly  assigned  to  atosiban  or  the  three 
comparators.  Furthermore,  there  was  no  difference  in  TTF  in  women  with  gestational  age  23  -  27 
weeks treated with atosiban or placebo in the PLT-096 study. 
Twins 
Clinical  experience  in  twin  pregnancies  was  limited,  therefore  it  should  be  stated  in  the  product 
information that the use of atosiban in this situation is uncertain and should be used with caution. 
Other studies 
Study PTL-096 was a  placebo-controlled study in 531 participants with Gestational Age 20-33. The 
primary  parameter  of  efficacy  considered  was  also  the  time  to  failure  (TTF).  The  study  was 
characterised by imbalance at randomisation (differences in GA at inclusion and in severity of PTL) 
and  approximately  20%  had  received  alternative  tocolytic  treatment  before  evaluation  of  treatment 
success/failure  was  performed.  Due  to  these  methodological  issues,  the  results  should  be  taken  in 
consideration with caution. The proportion with treatment success after 24 hours, 48 hours, and 7 days 
favoured Atosiban over placebo. Compared to placebo, the time to delivery or therapeutic failure was 
not increased. 
The  PTL  098  study  was  an  open-label  study  of  Atosiban  in  the  proposed  dose  but  followed  by  s.c. 
administration. It was not randomised trial in the acute phase; randomisation with placebo being done 
only for the maintenance phase. Therefore, in this study there are no comparative data that can be used 
for efficacy information relevant to acute treatment of pre-term labour. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  recommended  dosage  and  schedule  of  administration  was  chosen  on  empirical  basis.  No 
systematic and accurate disposition profile of atosiban was described, particularly during pregnancy. 
No  relationship  was  clearly  established  between  plasma  concentrations  and  effects.  The  amount  of 
drug  needed  to  reduce  uterine  activity  was  empirically  chosen  with  no  kinetic-dynamic  basis.  The 
different  dosages  and  schedules  tested  did  not  differ  with  respect  to  clinically  relevant  outcome 
measures such as the proportion of women whose contractions stopped during treatment or who had ≤ 
4  contractions  by  the  end  of  treatment  or  whose  labour  was  arrested  for  two  days.  The  alleged 
reduction of time to stopping contractions by the recommended dosage does not apparently mean an 
advantage compared to ritodrine. The suggested infusion of 100 mg/min after the first 3-h treatment 
has  no  apparent  experimental  basis.  The  proposed  regimen  has  not  been  proved  to  be  better  than 
lower-dose regimens or as effective as and less toxic than higher-dose ones. 
Using the TTF as main efficacy criteria is questionable since it compounds the efficacy/safety profile 
of study drugs. The longer TTF reflects the better tolerability of atosiban compared to beta-mimetics. 
TTF is longer because patients on atosiban need to shift to alternative tocolytics less often than those 
using beta-mimetics. However, discontinuation of the assigned treatment due to insufficient efficacy 
was more frequent in the atosiban group (48/338 vs. 20/343, OR 2.67, 95% CI 1.50-4.78, p=0.0003). 
In  addition,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  an  initial  success  rate  was  lower  in  the  atosiban  group 
(82%  vs  88%,  -6%,  95%  CI  -11  to  -1,  p=0.025).  This  suggests  that  atosiban  may  be  less  effective, 
15//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
even  though  better  tolerated.  One  has  to  assume  that  the  better  tolerability  is  not  the  result  of  an 
investigators’ bias – randomised treatments were easily identifiable because of the cardiovascular side 
effects of beta-mimetics. 
In the three CAP-001 studies, only 129 patients at gestational age < 28 weeks were randomly assigned 
to  atosiban  or  beta-mimetics.  The  proportion  of  women  in  this  subgroup  with  TTF  >  7  was  not 
statistically significantly higher in the atosiban group. The use of atosiban in early pregnancy is based 
on little clinical experience.  
Clinical safety 
Both safety data in treated women and infants have been assessed. 
Patient exposure 
Main information on safety derives from: 
Group  1)  the  comparative  studies  (CAP-001  protocol)  vs  beta-mimetics  for  a  total  of  361  patients 
given atosiban and 372 given beta-mimetics; 
Group  2)  patients  treated  with  atosiban  (total  of  899)  included  in  the  PTL-096  placebo  controlled 
study and in the open label study PTL-098. 
Overall,  information  on  safety  is  available  for  1260  atosiban  treated  women.  The  main  evidence, 
however, as for efficacy, comes from the pooled analysis of the CAP-001 protocol.  
Adverse events (AE)  and serious adverse event/deaths  
Maternal adverse events 
With regard to serious maternal AE during atosiban i.v. treatment, only one case (an allergic reaction) 
was defined as related to atosiban.  
Although  chest  pain,  myocardial  ischemia,  dyspnea,  tachycardia  (etc.)  were  less  frequent  in  the 
atosiban group, pulmonary oedema, the most dangerous of the beta-mimetic-related AE, was reported 
in two patients in the overall safety population given atosiban as well as in the beta-mimetic groups in 
CAP-001 studies. These events were presumably caused when patients assigned to atosiban shifted to 
beta-mimetics. It is noteworthy that despite the high rate (at least one third) of shifts to beta-mimetics 
in  the  CAP-001  studies,  only  11  patients  in  the  overall  safety  population  (n=1260)  discontinued 
atosiban due to maternal AE. 
In the overall safety population, there was no increased risk of atoni, uterine haemorrhage or vaginal 
haemorrhage at the delivery. 
The most frequently reported maternal AEs (Group 1 and 2) were: 
Frequency (%) 
Nausea  
Headache  
Dizziness 
Tachycardia 
Urinary tract infection 
Atosiban 
(n=1260) 
13,9 
9,3 
2,6 
2,5 
2,3 
Beta-mimetics 
(n=372) 
15,9 
18,5 
1,9 
75,5 
4,8 
Placebo 
(n=251) 
5,6 
7,6 
0,8 
1,2 
0,4 
The general findings of the pooled analysis and PTL 096 and 098 studies suggest that the frequency of 
maternal  mild  adverse  events  is  lower  with  atosiban  than  in  the  beta-mimetics  group  and  slightly 
higher than in the placebo one. 
16//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Fetal AE 
Most frequently reported foetal AEs (atosiban and beta-mimetics, Group 1 and 2) 
Frequency (%) 
Bradycardia 
Foetal distress 
Tachycardia 
Asphyxia 
Atosiban 
(n=1260) 
Beta-mimetics 
(n=372) 
2.6 
1.1 
0.9 
0.1 
3.5 
3.8 
26.3 
0.8 
Placebo 
(n=251) 
1.6 
0 
0 
0 
The only AE with a lower incidence in the overall safety population and in the subgroups of CAP-001 
without alternative tocolytic treatment was tachycardia. There were 29 serious foetal AE (6 deaths) in 
atosiban groups from the phase III studies. In the active control CAP-001 studies neither serious AE 
(n=18) nor deaths (n=1) in the atosiban group differed from those in the beta-mimetic groups (22 and 
2,  respectively).  Five  discontinuations  due  to  foetal  AE  (foetal  distress  and  “deceleration”)  were 
reported in the PTL studies. 
Infant AE 
In the infant population, there was as expected in this population with premature birth a high number 
of AE. 
Infant mortality did not differ in atosiban and control patients (19/985 vs. 19/999) in the overall safety 
population or between the atosiban and beta-mimetic groups in the CAP series  
(5/406 vs. 10/432, p=0.24). 
Congenital abnormalities (8.9% in atosiban and 8.8% in control groups) and serious AE  
(8.8% vs. 8.2%) were also distributed equally. 
Considering  the  CAP-001  protocol  (group  1),  the  frequencies  of  neonatal  death,  RDS,  apnoea, 
hypoglycaemia,  neonatal  sepsis,  and  cerebral  haemorrhage  were  similar  in  the  atosiban  and  beta-
mimetic groups. 
Most frequently reported infant AE (Group 1 only) 
Frequency (%) 
Atosiban 
Beta-mimetics 
Resp. distress syndrome. 
Apnoea 
Anaemia neonatal 
Hypoglycaemia neonatal 
Sepsis neonatal 
Cerebral haemorrhage 
(n=406) 
19 
9 
8 
6 
6 
4 
(n=432) 
20 
5 
8 
6 
8 
5 
Considering the information from group 1 and 2, higher frequencies of RDS and respiratory disorders 
were reported in the atosiban than beta-mimetics groups. 
Most frequently reported infant AEs1(Group 1 and 2) 
Frequency (%) 
Atosiban 
(n=1404) 
Beta-mimetics 
(n=430) 
Placebo 
(n=292) 
Resp. distress syndrome 
Resp. Disorder 
Bacterial infection 
Apnoea 
Anaemia neonatal 
Sepsis neonatal 
Hypoglycaemia neonatal 
Bone disorder 
1stillbirths are not included in this analysis 
21 
14 
11 
11 
9 
2 
8 
5 
17 
2 
1 
4 
7 
6 
5 
<1 
23 
22 
12 
9 
8 
<1 
8 
9 
17//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respiratory  distress  syndrome  was  the  most  frequent  AE.  Its  incidence  did  not  apparently  differ 
between treatment groups in the overall safety population, with the possible exception of the PTL-096 
study.  In  this  study  a  non  significant  excess  of  risk  was  reported  for  atosiban  compared  to  placebo 
(64/288,  22%  vs.  54/295,  18%).    Nevertheless,  a  multivariate  analysis  of  the  possible  confounding 
variables shows that the excess of infant deaths in the atosiban group in study PTL-096 was due to an 
imbalance in gestational age at delivery, not to the experimental drug or other factors.  
Laboratory findings 
In infants, no clinical adverse changes in laboratory parameters were seen. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Data  on  the  incidence  of  the  main  outcome  measures  and  serious  unexpected  adverse  events  (birth 
weight,  APGAR  score,  RDS,  cerebral  haemorrhage  in  infants,  blood  loss,  uterine  atony,  placenta 
disorder  and  operative  delivery  in  women,  percentage  of  gestational  age  at  delivery  >  34  weeks) 
associated  with  atosiban  treatment compared  to other tocolytics are reassuring. There is no  apparent 
excess of foetal, infant and maternal events in the atosiban group. 
Nevertheless, it has been raised whether the pivotal studies designed to detect a difference in terms of 
time-to-failure  (TTF)  of  the  tocolytic  treatments  had  enough  power  to  rule  out  an  excess  of  rarer, 
though clinically important, events. The table below shows the detectable differences in the incidence 
of such events. 
OUTCOME 
MEASURE 
ATOSIBAN 
CONTROL 
31 % 
Gestational age at 
delivery > 34 weeks 
Caesarean section 
Infant RDS 
I  Birth weight 
(mean g ± SD) 
*α 0.05, β 0.20, sample about 800 patients 
14 % 
20 % 
2491 ± 813 
33 % 
19 % 
20 % 
2461 ± 831 
DETECTABLE 
ABSOLUTE 
DIFFERENCE* 
About 10 % 
About 8 % 
About 8 % 
About 170 g 
5. 
Overall conclusion and benefit risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  atosiban  is  an  antagonist  of 
oxytocin  receptors  and  may  have  an  effect  in  pre-term  labour.  The  general  pharmacology  studies 
showed  no  atosiban-induced  effects  that could cause concerns  for the proposed  human use. Overall, 
the toxicology programme revealed an acceptable safety profile without organ toxicity. 
Efficacy 
The  apparent  lack  of  interaction  between  Tractocile  and  antibiotics,  antihypertensive  agents,  ergot 
alkaloids  and  steroids  is  based  on  limited  data  and  will  be  further  investigated,  as  outlined  in  the 
approved FUM. 
The lack of effective drugs to retard preterm labour is a major obstetrical problem. Maternal and foetal 
side  effects  often  limit  treatment  with  beta-mimetics.  Compared  with  these,  atosiban  offers  no 
advantages  in  prolonging  gestation,  stopping  contractions  or  improving  foetal  or  maternal  outcome. 
Atosiban has the same effect on surrogate parameters (contraction rate, time to stop contractions etc) 
as the reference treatment, but a better outcome for the foetus or mother has not been established.  
18//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
However, discontinuation of the assigned treatment due to insufficient efficacy was more frequent and 
the proportion of patients with an initial success rate was lower in the atosiban group. This suggests 
that atosiban may be less effective, even though better tolerated.  
Traditional  dose-ranging  studies  have  not  been  done,  and  the  bolus  dose,  the  loading  dose  and  the 
maintenance  dose  could  all  be  questioned,  however  the  efficacy  of  the  proposed  dose  regimen  was 
shown in the phase III study. In the three CAP-001 studies, only 129 patients at gestational age  
< 28  weeks  were  randomly  assigned  to  atosiban  or  beta-mimetics.  The  proportion  of  women  in  this 
subgroup with TTF > 7 days was not significantly higher in the atosiban group.  
Safety 
Atosiban  has  good  maternal/foetal  tolerability  with  little  evidence  of  the  adverse  event  (AE) 
commonly associated with tocolytic (beta-mimetic) agents. Although this is apparently reassuring for 
mothers and infants, it must be borne in mind that the comparative studies of phase III were small with 
respect to the aim of assessing differences in rare but important outcome events such as infant death or 
RDS. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
During an oral explanation held before the CPMP on 21 September 1999, the applicant addressed the 
following  issues:  the  recommended  dosage  and  schedule  of  administration,  the  acceptability  of  a 
possibly  worse  clinical  outcome  in  the  atosiban  group  compared  to  the  beta-mimetic  group  and 
efficacy in early pregnancy.  
Taking into account the following points: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
the  recommended  dosage  and  schedule  of  administration  although  based  on  empirical 
conclusions from different studies, was tested and proved effective in phase III pivotal studies 
in  the  pivotal  studies  the  proportion  of  women  remaining  undelivered  and  not  requiring 
alternative tocolytics within seven days of treatment initiation was higher in the atosiban than in 
the beta-mimetic group 
the  better  outcome  was  due  to  better  tolerability,  although  initial  success  rate  was  lower  and 
discontinuations due to insufficient efficacy were more frequent in the atosiban group 
atosiban has the same effect as beta-mimetics on surrogate endpoints (contraction rate, time to 
stop of contraction etc) 
atosiban  offers  no  advantage  in  prolonging  the  gestational  age,  stopping  contractions  and 
improving foetal and maternal outcome compared to beta-mimetics 
subgroup  analyses  from  clinical  studies  suggest  that  atosiban  may  be  less  effective  in  early 
gestational stages (≤28 weeks) 
The CPMP has considered that atosiban is a suitable treatment in the prevention of pre-term labour. 
Based on the CPMP review of available data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by 
consensus that the benefit/risk profile of Tractocile in the treatment of delaying imminent pre-term 
labour in pregnant women with: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
regular uterine contractions of at least 30 seconds duration at a rate of ≥ 4 per 30  
minutes 
a cervical dilation of 1 to 3 cm (0-3 for nulliparas) and effacement of ≥ 50% 
age ≥ 18 years 
a gestational age from 24 until 33 completed weeks 
a normal foetal heart rate. 
was favourable. 
19//19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
