PART VI: 
SUMMARY  OF THE RISK  MANAGEMENT  PLAN 
This is a summary  of the risk management  plan (RMP) for Translarna TM (ataluren, granules 
for oral suspension) for patients with nonsense mutation  type Duchenne  muscular dystrophy 
(DMD). The RMP details important  risks of ataluren, how these risks can be minimised, and 
how more information  will be obtained about influenza  vaccine’s risks and uncertainties. 
The  ataluren  summary  of  product  characteristics (SmPC)  provides essential information  to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how ataluren should be used.  
This summary  of the RMP for ataluren should be read in the context of all presented information 
including  the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary.   
Important  new concerns or changes  to the current ones will be included in updates of ataluren 
RMP (version 7.1 [submitted 26 April 2018]). 
I.
The medicine  and what it is used for
Translarna (ataluren) is a medicine used to treat patients aged 2 years and older with 
Duchenne  muscular dystrophy  (DMD).  DMD is a rare genetic disease that gradually causes 
weakness and loss of muscle function.   It mainly affects boys and occurs in 1 in 3,500 male 
births.  The disease is caused by defects (‘mutations’) in the gene for dystrophin,  a protein 
that helps to protect muscles from injury as muscles contract and relax.  Translarna is for use 
in the group of Duchenne  patients whose disease is caused by a defect in the dystrophin gene 
called ‘nonsense mutation’.   Approximately  13% of boys with DMD have this specific 
genetic defect. 
II.
Risks associated with the medicine and  activities to minimise  or further
characterise the risks
Important  risks of ataluren, together with measures to minimise  such  risks and the  proposed 
studies for learning more about ataluren, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise  the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
●
●
●
●
Specific information,  such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in
the package leaflet and SmPC  addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important  advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size - the amount  of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g.
with or without prescription) can help to minimise  its risks.
Together, these measures constitute  routine risk minimisation measures. 
Information  about adverse reactions is collected continuously  and regularly analysed, 
including  PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These 
measures constitute  routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important  information  that  may  affect the safe use of ataluren is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’  below. 
In the case of ataluren, the safety concerns do not require additional risk minimisation
measures. 
II.A
List of important  risks and missing  information 
List of important risks and missing  information 
Important  identified risks 
Important  potential  risks 
• Potentiation  of aminoglycoside  renal toxicity
•
Long-term  cardiovascular effects including changes in lipid
profile
Missing information 
• Hypertension  with use of concomitant  systemic
corticosteroids
• Renal  toxicity
• Hepatic toxicity
• Malignancies
• Use in patients  with moderate  to severe renal impairment
• Extended  long-term  safety
• Effect of co-administration of ataluren  with certain drugs not
yet evaluated  in formal drug-drug interaction studies
II.B
Summary  of important  risks 
Important identified  risk: Potentiation of aminoglycoside  renal toxicity
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Analysis of unblinded  data from the Phase 3 placebo-controlled  study in 
nmCF (Study 009) revealed  evidence  of nephrotoxicity  (increased serum 
creatinine) when  ataluren  was administered  concomitantly with  IV 
aminoglycosides. 
Cumulatively,  there are 19 cases in the global  safety database,  all of which 
are from clinical studies. The  cumulative  review  of cases did not identify any 
new safety signals  or trends 
Aminoglycosides  have been shown  to reduce the readthrough  activity of 
ataluren  in vitro. In addition, ataluren  was found to increase nephrotoxicity of 
intravenous  aminoglycosides. Nephrotoxic  effects among  the class of 
aminoglycosides  are variable  among  the drugs in the class, with gentamicin 
having  the greatest potential  for toxicity, followed  by tobramycin. 
Dehydration may be a contributing factor in some  cases. Elevated 
creatinine, generally  asymptomatic,  which resolves  over days to weeks  with 
interruption of ataluren administration. 
The toxicity of an aminoglycoside is influenced by patient  factors such as 
comorbid disease, age, concomitant medications  and duration/frequency of 
treatment. 
Routine  risk minimisation  measures: 
• SmPC sections 4.3 – 4.5, 4.8; PIL
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
• None
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Important potential risk: Long-term cardiovascular  effects including  changes in lipid  profile
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
In clinical studies, ataluren  treatment  was associated  with  small  shifts in 
plasma  cholesterol,  LDL, and to a lesser degree, triglycerides within the 
first 8 weeks  of ataluren  therapy.  The mean  observed  changes in lipids 
were small,  representing approximately  a 7 to 11% change from baseline 
and did not continue to increase after the first 8 weeks  of ataluren  therapy. 
Importantly,  the overall  incidence of patients  with sustained  clinically 
relevant  hypercholesterolemia  which would  require treatment  (defined as 
LDL >3.5 mmol/L)  was low (ie, 5.2%) with  the same  incidence reported in 
ataluren-treated  patients  as compared to placebo-treated  ones. 
DMD clinical trials 
During the randomised,  placebo-controlled  studies of nmDMD, mean total 
cholesterol  and triglycerides were normal at baseline  and increased, 
reaching borderline high or high values.  Lipid levels  shifted from normal  at 
baseline  to high (above  the upper limit of normal) at Week 48 in slightly 
higher percentages of patients  receiving ataluren  compared to those 
receiving placebo (total  cholesterol  15.1% vs. 6.1%, triglycerides 21.1% 
vs. 13.4%, respectively). The  values  tended  to stabilize  early in the study 
and did not increase further with  continued treatment. 
There have  been cases reported where serum lipids increased to 
abnormal  high values  after 4 weeks. This increase in serum lipids was also 
observed  in patients  not receiving concomitant  corticosteroid treatment. 
Cumulatively,  there are 29 cases concerning long-term  cardiovascular 
effects including changes in lipid profile in the global  safety database.  The 
cumulative  review  of cases did not identify any new safety signals or 
trends.
DMD causes progressive  cardiac disease starting with  primary 
cardiomyopathy. Fibrosis spreads to the ventricular walls  resulting  in mitral 
valve  regurgitation (Sanyal 1980), conduction abnormalities  and 
arrhythmias (Perloff 1984). 
Increased lipid infiltration into skeletal  muscles of boys with DMD is well 
evidenced  (Jones 1983, Torriani 2012, Wren 2008). Elevated  lipid levels 
are frequently noted in patients  receiving corticosteroids, drugs known to 
be associated with  increased lipid levels  [Ettinger 1988, Taskinen  1988].  
Elevated  lipid levels  have  also been described in association with DMD in 
the literature [Aitkens 2005].  The incidence of elevated  lipid levels  in 
nmDMD  patients  who are not treated  with corticosteroids is not available 
from the literature. 
Increases in lipids, if left untreated  for an extensive  period of time (ie, 
greater than 3 decades), could potentially  increase the long-term 
cardiovascular risk in nmDMD  patients. 
Atherosclerosis  of the coronary arteries and associated thromboembolic 
complication such as myocardial infarctions are not observed  complications 
of cardiovascular disease in DMD patients.  This is because atherosclerosis 
often only manifests  later in life (ie, fourth decade and later).  However, 
there is underlying cardiomyopathy associated with  DMD.  There  is a 
theoretical possibility that, if the small  levels  of elevated  lipids observed  with 
ataluren  therapy went  untreated  for an extensive  period of time (ie, greater 
than 3 decades), this could potentially  increase the long-term  cardiovascular 
risk in nmDMD  patients. 
It is acknowledged  that DMD patients  have additional  risk factors for long-
term cardiovascular effects based on elevated  blood  pressure and lipids 
which are consequences of underlying disease and corticosteroid use. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
As DMD affects all  striated muscle, including respiratory muscles and the 
myocardium.  Cardiac dysfunction is a frequent manifestation  and common 
cause of death in patients  with nmDMD. Early diastolic dysfunction and focal 
fibrosis proceed to dilated cardiomyopathy complicated by heart failure and 
arrhythmia in most  patients. 
Routine  risk minimisation  measures: 
• SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8; PIL
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
• None
Important potential risk: Hypertension with use of concomitant  systemic  corticosteroids
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
In Study 020, all patients  received concomitant corticosteroid therapy 
throughout  the trial so no comparison between  patients  with  or without 
corticosteroid therapy was performed.  Blood pressure was elevated  in 
approximately  34% of the study population  at baseline, likely due to 
patients’  corticosteroid use and possibly also due to their underlying 
condition.  In both treatment  arms, the proportions of patients  who were 
hypertensive  [≥ the 95th percentile for age and height] at baseline  were 
similar (24.3% for ataluren;  18.3% for placebo). 
Among the 5 ataluren  patients  with hypertension adverse  events  in Study 
007, 3 cases were Grade 1 in severity, and 2 cases were Grade 2.  (The 
placebo case was also Grade 1 in severity.)  None of these  patients 
discontinued study drug treatment,  no medical intervention  was required 
for 4 of these  cases (including the placebo case), and the blood pressure 
was controlled  with antihypertensive  medication  in the other 2 cases.  All 3 
cases of hypertension adverse  events  in Study 020, one in an ataluren 
patient  and 2 in placebo patients, were Grade 1 in severity.  None of these 
patients  discontinued study drug treatment,  and no medical intervention 
was required for any of these cases.  To date, a Grade 1 adverse  event  of 
hypertension has reported for 1 ataluren  patient  and a Grade 2 adverse 
event  of hypertension has reported for another ataluren  patient  in Study 
016. Neither of these patients  discontinued study drug treatment;  no
medical intervention  was required for 1 of these  cases, and the blood
pressure was  treated with antihypertensive  medication  in the other case.
Cumulatively,  there are 8 cases concerning hypertension with the use of
concomitant systemic corticosteroids in the global  safety database.  The
cumulative  review  of cases did not identify any new safety signals or trends.
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Hypertension  is frequently noted  in patients  receiving corticosteroids, drugs 
known  to be associated  with hypertension [Manzur 2008].  The  incidence of 
hypertension in nmDMD patients  who  are not treated with  corticosteroids is 
not available  from the literature.  Baseline data from Study 007 indicate that 
14.5% of patients  on corticosteroids (18/124) had systolic blood pressure 
values  ≥ the 95th percentile (for age and height), but only 10% of the 
patients  not on corticosteroids (5/50) had systolic blood pressure values 
≥ the 95th percentile.  Similarly, 4.0% of patients  on corticosteroids (5/124) 
had baseline  diastolic blood pressure values  ≥ the 95th percentile (for age 
and height), but only 2.0% of the patients not on corticosteroids (5/50) had 
diastolic blood pressure values  ≥ the 95th percentile. 
Systemic corticosteroid use.  In Study 007, baseline  blood  pressure values 
were higher in patients  receiving corticosteroid therapy as described above. 
During the treatment  period, increases in mean blood pressure values  in 
routine vital  signs assessments  were observed  in patients  receiving 
corticosteroid therapy, more prominently  in ataluren  -treated patients  than in 
the placebo arm.  In patients  not receiving corticosteroid therapy, mean 
blood pressure values  increased similarly across all 3 treatment  arms. 
During Study 020, mean increases in systolic blood pressure and diastolic 
blood pressure occurred in the placebo and ataluren  arms, respectively; 
these increases were small  and not clinically significant. 
Routine  risk minimisation  measures: 
• SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8; PIL
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
• None
Important potential risk: Renal toxicity
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Analysis of unblinded  data from the Phase 3 placebo-controlled  study in 
nmCF (Study 009) revealed  evidence  of nephrotoxicity  (increased serum 
creatinine) when  ataluren  was administered  concomitantly with  IV 
aminoglycosides. 
During the randomised,  placebo-controlled  studies, small  increases in 
mean serum creatinine, BUN, and cystatin C were observed.  The values 
tended  to stabilize  early in the study and did not increase further with 
continued treatment. 
Cumulatively,  there are 44 cases concerning renal toxicity in the global 
safety database.  The cumulative  review  of cases did not identify any new 
safety signals  or trends. 
Dehydration may be a contributing factor in some  cases. Elevated 
creatinine, generally  asymptomatic,  which resolves  over days to weeks  with 
interruption of ataluren administration. 
The toxicity of an aminoglycoside is influenced by patient  factors such as 
comorbid disease, age, concomitant medications  and duration/frequency of 
treatment. 
Routine  risk minimisation  measures: 
• SmPC sections 4.3 – 4.5, 4.8; PIL
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
• None
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Important potential risk: Hepatic toxicity
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
No clinically meaningful  effects of ataluren  on serum GGT  or total  bilirubin 
were observed  in individual  patients  in the 2 placebo-controlled  studies.  In 
Study 007, in each patient, the abnormality was  observed  only once and 
normal  values  were observed  at subsequent  visits.  In Study 020, 2 
ataluren  patients  with normal  baseline GGT  had intermittent  values  above 
the upper limit of normal during the study. 
In the ongoing open-label  safety study (Study 016; data available  through 
31 July 2015), no patients  had GGT  values  that  were Grade 2 or above. 
At each study visit, there were 0 to 3 patients  who had normal baseline 
GGT  values  and subsequently  had Grade 1 increases in GGT  while 
receiving ataluren.   At each study visit, there were 0 to 2 patients  who had 
normal  baseline total  bilirubin values  and subsequently  had a total  bilirubin 
value  above  the upper limit of normal  while receiving ataluren.  One 
patient  had at least one Grade 2 elevation  of bilirubin; all other reported 
values  were Grade 1. 
None of these patients  discontinued  study drug treatment,  and no medical 
intervention  was required.  Since these  isolated  abnormalities  did not 
persist, there is little  to no indication of a hepatotoxic  effect of ataluren. 
Cumulatively,  there are 7 cases concerning hepatic toxicity in the global 
safety database.  The cumulative  review  of cases did not identify any new 
safety signals  or trends. 
Theoretically,  a patient with  impaired hepatic function might  be at more risk 
of altered liver function test  values  with ataluren  treatment. 
The potential  effect of hepatic impairment  is an intrinsic factor that  has not 
yet been studied in clinical trials.  Theoretically,  a patient with  impaired 
hepatic function might  be at more risk of altered  liver function test values 
with ataluren  treatment. 
Routine  risk minimisation  measures: 
• SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 5.2; PIL
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
• None
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Important potential risk: Malignancies
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
The clinical and post-marketing  experience thus far has no reports of 
hibernoma. Hibernoma  is extremely  rare and its treatment  is curative 
surgery. 
Hibernoma  is a rare tumour originating from persistent  fetal brown fat tissue 
[Cannon 2004] and regresses with age [1]. In adults,  the most common 
residual areas of brown fat are usually located  in the inter-scapular region, 
mediastinum,  retroperitoneum,  back, thigh and, sometimes,  in head and 
neck [Chen 2011, Della  2005, Hertoghs  2009]. Widely, the remaining of 
brown fat still  remains asymptomatic  and has no impact on the homeostasis. 
In rare cases, the remaining tissue can slowly  grow, leading to the 
occurrence of a soft-tissue  tumor. Thus, some  cases of hibernoma  are well 
described in the current literature and they are commonly  found in chest, 
abdominal  cavity and head and neck [Della 2005, Hertoghs  2009]. 
Cumulatively,  there have  been no cases of hibernoma in the global  safety 
database,  and 3 cases concerning malignancies  in general; therefore, 
malignancies  are considered a potential  risk. The  cumulative  review  of 
cases did not identify any new safety signals or trends 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Hibernomas  originate from brown adipose tissue, which resembles  the 
special fat deposits of hibernating animals.  Most of these rare tumours 
have  been intradural  extramedullary  lesions,  although  at least one was 
intracranial. 
The radiographic appearance of hibernomas is similar to that  of lipomas  or 
angiosarcomas, depending  on the vascularity of the lesion. Surgical 
resection is believed  to be adequate  treatment;  the tumours  typically may be 
more easily separable  from their surroundings than lipomas 
[Weinstein 2005].  Refractory seizures may occur; most  patients  are 
seizure-free at least  initially following  surgery [Sandberg 2005]. However, 
the incidence of seizures appears to increase with longer duration of follow-
up. This was illustrated  by a series of 26 children, in which 62 percent 
remained seizure-free at a median follow-up  of 4.3 years [Nolan  2004]. The 
main risk factors for recurrent seizures were age >10 years and longer 
duration of epilepsy (>2 years) prior surgery. Rarely, tumour  recurrence or 
even  malignant  transformation  may occur. 
Hibernomas  and several  other rare brain tumours  are benign; detected in 
infants or young children. Potential  risk factors for malignancies  in general 
are extensive,  and risk factors for the target population  may include family 
history, concurrent disorders (e.g. immunosuppression),  or infections. 
Routine  risk minimisation  measures: 
• SmPC sections 5.3; PIL
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
• None
Missing  information: Use in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment
Routine  risk minimisation  measures: 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
• SmPC sections 4.2. 4.4, 5.2; PIL
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
• None
Missing  information: Extended long-term safety
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine  risk minimisation  measures: 
• SmPC section 4.8; PIL
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
• None
Missing  information: Effect of co-administration  of ataluren with certain drugs not yet 
evaluated in formal drug-drug interaction studies 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine  risk minimisation  measures: 
• SmPC sections 4.4, 4.5
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
• None
II.C
Post-authorisation  development plan 
II.C.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Efficacy 
uncertainties 
addressed 
Status 
(planned, 
started) 
Started 
To confirm 
the safety 
and efficacy 
of ataluren in 
patients  with 
nmDMD 
Date for 
submission 
of interim 
or final 
reports 
Final report: 
September 
2022 
Study (type 
and study 
number) 
Objectives 
The primary objective  of this study 
is to determine  the effect of ataluren 
on ambulation  and endurance as 
assessed  by the 6-minute walk  test 
(6MWT). 
The secondary objectives  of this 
study are to: 
• Determine the effects of
ataluren  on ambulation  and
burst activity as assessed  by
timed function tests
• Determine the effects of
ataluren  on lower-limb  muscle
function as assessed  by the
North Star Ambulatory
Assessment  (NSAA)
• Assess the safety profile of
ataluren
PTC124-GD-
041-DMD
A Phase 3, 
Randomized, 
Double-Blind, 
Placebo-
Controlled 
Efficacy and 
Safety Study of 
Ataluren  in 
Patients  with 
Nonsense 
Mutation 
Duchenne 
Muscular 
Dystrophy and 
Open-Label 
Extension 
Category 2 
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity (including 
study number) 
Objectives 
Post-approval  registry  
[Protocol PTC124-GD-025o-
DMD, “Long-Term 
Observational  Study of 
Translarna  Safety and 
Effectiveness  in Usual  Care”] 
To obtain 
information on 
safety and 
effectiveness  with 
long term use. 
Status 
Started 
Safety concerns 
/efficacy  issue 
addressed 
Obtain  information 
on all potential 
risks and missing 
information with 
ataluren 
treatment. 
Planned 
date for 
submission 
of (interim 
and) final 
results 
Annual 
reports in 
April of each 
year starting 
2016. 
Final report 
October 
2025. 
