EMA/65956/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000390 
EPAR summary for the public 
Travatan 
travoprost 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Travatan. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Travatan. 
What is Travatan? 
Travatan is a clear eye drop solution that contains the active substance travoprost. 
What is Travatan used for? 
Travatan is used to reduce intraocular pressure (pressure inside the eye). It is used in adults who have 
open-angle glaucoma (a disease where the pressure in the eye rises because fluid cannot drain out of 
the eye) and in adults with ocular hypertension (when the pressure in the eye is higher than normal). 
It can also be used in children from two months of age who have ocular hypertension or childhood 
glaucoma. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Travatan used? 
The dose is one drop of Travatan in the affected eye(s) once a day, preferably in the evening. 
If other eye drops are also being used, they should be given at least 5 minutes apart. 
How does Travatan work? 
When intraocular pressure is raised, it causes damage to the retina (the light-sensitive membrane at 
the back of the eye) and to the optic nerve that sends signals from the eye to the brain. This can result 
in serious vision loss and even blindness. By lowering the pressure, Travatan reduces the risk of 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
damage. The active substance in Travatan, travoprost, is a prostaglandin analogue (a man-made copy 
of a prostaglandin, one of a group of substances naturally found in the body). In the eye, 
prostaglandins increase the drainage of the watery fluid (aqueous humour) out of the eyeball. Travatan 
acts in the same way and increases the flow of fluid out of the eye. This helps to reduce the pressure 
inside the eye. 
How has Travatan been studied? 
Travatan has been studied in 1,989 adult patients in three main studies, lasting between six and 12 
months. All three studies compared travoprost with timolol, which is the standard treatment for 
glaucoma. One of the three trials also included a comparison with latanoprost (another prostaglandin 
analogue used for glaucoma). . A fourth study also compared the effectiveness of adding Travatan to 
treatment with timolol (427 patients, six-month duration). In addition, Travatan was compared with 
timolol in a fifth main study over 3 months, involving 152 children between 2 months and 18 years of 
age. The main measure of effectiveness in all studies was the reduction in intraocular pressure 
What benefit has Travatan shown during the studies? 
Travatan was at least as effective as timolol and as effective as latanoprost in reducing intraocular 
pressure. The combined treatment with Travatan plus timolol produced an additional decrease of 
intraocular pressure in patients who were not controlled with timolol alone. 
What is the risk associated with Travatan? 
The most common side effects when using Travatan (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are ocular 
hyperaemia (increased blood supply to the eye, leading to eye irritation and redness) and iris 
hyperpigmentation (darkening of the colour of the iris). There may also be changes to the patient’s 
eyelashes, including increased length, thickness, colour or number of lashes. Side effects reported in 
children are similar to those seen in adults. For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with 
Travatan, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Travatan been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Travatan’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Travatan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union, for 
Travatan on 27 November 2001. 
The full EPAR for Travatan can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Travatan, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2014.  
Travatan  
EMA/65956/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
