29 May 2019 
EMA/429226/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): trastuzumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00003010/201809 
Period covered by the PSUR: 08 Nov 2017 to 24 Sep 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for trastuzumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows: 
Although the number of cases identified by a search of the safety database and meeting the Cairo-Bishop 
criteria for diagnosis was low, it is endorsed that a contributing factor of trastuzumab to tumour lysis syndrome 
(TLS) could not be excluded. Although there are some limitations when using Cairo-Bishop criteria for 
diagnosis leading to underestimation of the number of cases, the update of the Product Information to include 
TLS with a frequency unknown is endorsed, because trastuzumab is a potent mediator of antibody-dependent 
cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC). Therefore, from the mechanism of action there is evidence that 
trastuzumab can cause tumour lysis syndrome. One case of tumour lysis syndrome with trastuzumab 
administration as monotherapy lends further support. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for trastuzumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing trastuzumab is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/429226/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
