EMA/426663/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004463 
Trazimera (trastuzumab) 
An overview of Trazimera and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Trazimera and what is it used for? 
Trazimera is a cancer medicine used to treat the following conditions: 
• 
early breast cancer (when the cancer has spread within the breast or to the glands under the arm 
but not to other parts of the body) after surgery, chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer), and 
radiotherapy (treatment with radiation) if applicable. It can also be used earlier in treatment, in 
combination with chemotherapy. For cancers that are locally advanced (including those that are 
inflammatory) or more than 2 cm wide, Trazimera is used before surgery in combination with 
chemotherapy and then again after surgery on its own; 
•  metastatic breast cancer (cancer that has spread to other parts of the body). It is used on its own 
when other treatments have not worked or are not suitable. It is also used in combination with 
other cancer medicines: with paclitaxel or docetaxel, or with another class of medicines called 
aromatase inhibitors; 
•  metastatic gastric (stomach) cancer, in combination with cisplatin and either capecitabine or 
fluorouracil (other cancer medicines). 
Trazimera can only be used when the cancer ‘overexpresses HER2’: this means that the cancer 
produces a protein called HER2 in large quantities on the cancer cells. HER2 is overexpressed in about 
a quarter of breast cancers and a fifth of gastric cancers. 
Trazimera is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Trazimera is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Trazimera is Herceptin. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Trazimera contains the active substance trastuzumab. 
How is Trazimera used? 
Trazimera can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who 
has experience in the use of cancer medicines. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
It is given by infusion (drip) into a vein over 90 minutes every week or every 3 weeks for breast 
cancer, and every 3 weeks for gastric cancer. For early breast cancer, treatment is given for a year or 
until the disease comes back, and for metastatic breast or gastric cancer, treatment is continued for as 
long as it remains effective. The dose depends on the patient’s body weight, on the condition being 
treated and on whether Trazimera is given every week or every 3 weeks. 
The infusion may cause allergic reactions, so the patient should be monitored during and after the 
infusion. Patients who do not have significant reactions to the first 90-minute infusion can receive 
subsequent infusions over 30 minutes. 
For more information about using Trazimera, see the package leaflet or contact a doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Trazimera work? 
The active substance in Trazimera, trastuzumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) designed 
to recognise and attach to the HER2 protein. By attaching to HER2, trastuzumab activates cells of the 
immune system, which then kill the tumour cells. Trastuzumab also stops HER2 from producing signals 
that cause the tumour cells to grow. 
What benefits of Trazimera have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Trazimera with Herceptin have shown that the active substance in 
Trazimera is highly similar to that in Herceptin in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. 
Studies have also shown that giving Trazimera produces similar levels of the active substance in the 
body to giving Herceptin. 
In addition, a main study involving 707 patients with metastatic breast cancer that overexpressed 
HER2 showed that Trazimera was as effective in treating the condition as Herceptin. In this study, 63% 
of patients given Trazimera had a complete or partial response to treatment compared with 67% of 
those given Herceptin. 
Because Trazimera is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of trastuzumab 
carried out with Herceptin do not all need to be repeated for Trazimera. 
What are the risks associated with Trazimera? 
The most common or serious side effects with Trazimera are heart problems, reactions related to the 
Trazimera infusion, reduced levels of blood cells (especially white blood cells), infections and lung 
problems.  
Trazimera can cause cardiotoxicity (harm to the heart), including heart failure (when the heart does 
not work as well as it should). Care should be taken if it is given to patients who already have heart 
problems or high blood pressure, and all patients need to be monitored during and after treatment to 
check their heart.  
Trazimera must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to trastuzumab, mouse 
proteins or to any of the other ingredients. It must not be used in patients whose advanced cancer 
causes serious breathing problems even when resting, or who need oxygen therapy.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Trazimera (trastuzumab)  
EMA/426663/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Trazimera authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Trazimera has been shown overall to have a comparable quality, safety and effectiveness to 
Herceptin. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Herceptin, the benefit of Trazimera outweighs 
the identified risk and it can be authorised. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Trazimera? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Trazimera have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Trazimera are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Trazimera are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Trazimera 
Trazimera received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26.07.2018. 
Further information on Trazimera can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2018. 
Trazimera (trastuzumab)  
EMA/426663/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
