Summary of risk management plan for Trazimera 
(trastuzumab) 
Summary of risk management plan for PF-05280014 (trastuzumab)1 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  RMP  for  PF-05280014.    The  RMP  details  important  risks  with  PF-
05280014,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
PF-05280014's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
PF-05280014's  proposed  SmPC  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare 
professionals and patients on how PF-05280014 should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  PF-05280014  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  to  PF-
05280014's RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It Is Used For 
PF-05280014  has  been  developed  as  a  biosimilar  to  Herceptin  (trastuzumab).    The  comparable 
efficacy, safety, PK, pharmacodynamics, and immunogenicity of PF-05280014 with Herceptin had 
been demonstrated during the development programme. Therefore, the treatment benefits of PF-
05280014 are comparable to those of Herceptin.  It is intended for the treatment of MBC, EBC and 
MGC  (see  the  proposed  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).    It  contains  trastuzumab  as  the  active 
substance and it is given by IV infusion. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  trastuzumab’s  (Herceptin)  benefits  can  be  found  in 
trastuzumab EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under 
the 
medicine’s 
webpage 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000278/hum
an_med_000818.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124.  
II. Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important  risks  of  PF-05280014,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  are  outlined 
below. 
1 Changes are considered important if they relate to the following: new safety concerns or important 
changes/removal to a known safety concerns, major changes to the pharmacovigilance plan (e.g. addition of 
new studies or completion of ongoing studies), any ‘additional risk minimisation measure’ which is added or 
removed, routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures to address the risk. 
1 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
Specific  Information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The  authorised  pack  size  —  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  public  (e.g.  with  or  without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
Important information (treatment in male breast cancer patients) that may affect the safe use of 
trastuzumab is not yet available, and is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of PF-05280014 are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which 
there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  PF-05280014.    Potential  risks  are  concerns  for 
which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.    Currently,  there  are  no 
important potential risks for trastuzumab.  Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term 
use of the medicine).  There is currently no missing information for trastuzumab. 
Table 1. 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  Cardiac dysfunction 
•  Administration-related reactions 
•  Oligohydramnios 
•  None 
•  None 
2 
 
II.B. Summary of Important Risks 
Table 2. 
Important Identified  Risk: Cardiac Dysfunction 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
PF-05280014  and  Herceptin  clinical  trial  data,  Herceptin  RMP  and 
Herceptin product labels. 
General considerations 
Patients  treated  with  trastuzumab  are  at  increased  risk  for  developing 
CHF  (NYHA  class  II-IV)  or  asymptomatic  cardiac  dysfunction.    These 
events  have  been  observed  in  patients  receiving  trastuzumab  therapy 
alone or in combination with P or D, particularly following anthracycline 
(doxorubicin  or  epirubicin)  containing  chemotherapy.    These  may  be 
moderate to severe and have been associated with death.  In addition, 
caution should be exercised in treating patients with increased cardiac 
risk, eg hypertension, documented coronary artery disease, CHF, LVEF 
of <55%, older age. 
MBC 
Patients  with  MBC  who  have  previously  received  anthracyclines  are  at 
increased risk of cardiac dysfunction with trastuzumab treatment. 
EBC 
In  adjuvant  and  neoadjuvant  EBC  setting,  the  patients  with  history  of 
MI,  angina  pectoris  requiring  medical  treatment,  history  of  or  existing 
CHF  (NYHA  II–IV),  LVEF  of  <  55%,  other  cardiomyopathy,  cardiac 
arrhythmia  requiring  medical  treatment,  clinically  significant  cardiac 
valvular  disease,  poorly  controlled  hypertension 
(hypertension 
controlled by standard medical treatment eligible), and haemodynamic 
effective  pericardial  effusion  are  at  are  increased  risk  of  cardiac 
dysfunction,  therefore  treatment  cannot  be  recommended  in  such 
patients. 
In  patients  with  EBC  an  increase  in  the  incidence  of  symptomatic  and 
asymptomatic  cardiac  events  was  observed  when  trastuzumab  was 
administered after anthracycline-containing chemotherapy compared to 
administration  with  a  non-anthracycline  regimen  of  D  and  C  and  was 
more  marked  when  trastuzumab  was  administered  concurrently  with 
taxanes  than  when  administered  sequentially  to  taxanes.    Regardless 
of the regimen used, most symptomatic cardiac events occurred within 
the first 18 months. 
Risk  factors  for  a  cardiac  event  identified  in  4  large  adjuvant  studies 
included  advanced  age  (>  50  years),  low  LVEF  (<55%)  at  baseline, 
prior to or following the initiation of P treatment, decline in LVEF by 10-
3 
 
Table 2. 
Important Identified  Risk: Cardiac Dysfunction 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
15  points,  and  prior  or  concurrent  use  of  anti-hypertensive  medicinal 
products.    In  patients  receiving  trastuzumab  after  completion  of 
adjuvant  chemotherapy  the  risk  of  cardiac  dysfunction  was  associated 
with a higher  cumulative  dose of anthracycline given prior to initiation 
of trastuzumab and a BMI >25 kg/m2. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
This  risk  is  communicated  through  the  label  (Sections  4.2  and  4.4  of 
the proposed SmPC). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Table 3. 
Important Identified Risk: Administration-Related Reactions 
Evidence 
for 
linking 
PF-05280014  and  Herceptin  clinical  trial  data,  Herceptin  RMP  and 
the 
risk 
to 
the 
Herceptin product labels. 
medicine 
Risk  factors  and  risk 
There  are  currently  no  reliable  predictors of  patients  who  may  or  may 
groups 
not  be  susceptible  to  ARRs  to  trastuzumab.    However,  patients,  who 
are  experiencing  dyspnoea  at  rest  due  to  complications  of  advanced 
malignancy  or  co-morbidities,  may  be  at  greater  risk  of  severe 
Risk 
minimisation 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
reactions including fatal outcomes. 
measures 
This  risk  is  communicated  through  the  label  (Sections  4.2  and  4.4  of 
the proposed SmPC). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Table 4.  Important Identified Risk: Oligohydramnios 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
Trazimera  and  Herceptin  clinical  trial  data,  Herceptin  RMP  and 
Herceptin product labels. 
There are no reliable indicators of patients who may or may not be at 
risk. 
4 
 
 
 
Table 4.  Important Identified Risk: Oligohydramnios 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
This  risk  is  communicated  through  the  label  (Sections  4.6  and  4.8  of 
the proposed SmPC). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C. Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Not applicable.   
5 
 
