EMA/95333/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004751 
Trecondi (treosulfan) 
An overview of Trecondi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Trecondi and what is it used for? 
Trecondi is a medicine given to patients before they have a bone marrow transplant from a donor 
known as ‘allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation’. It is used as a ‘conditioning’ treatment 
to clear the patient’s bone marrow and make room for the transplanted bone marrow cells, which can 
then produce healthy blood cells. 
Trecondi is used together with a medicine called fludarabine in adults and children from 1 month of age 
with blood cancers or other severe disorders requiring a bone marrow transplant. 
The active substance in Trecondi is treosulfan. 
Haematopoietic stem cell transplantation is rare, and Trecondi was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a 
medicine used in rare diseases) on 23 February 2004. Further information on the orphan designation 
can be found here: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu304186. 
How is Trecondi used? 
Trecondi is given as a two-hour infusion (drip) into a vein. The patient receives Trecondi once a day for 
3 days before the transplantation. Fludarabine is given once a day for 5 days before transplantation.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and the use of Trecondi must be supervised by a 
doctor experienced in conditioning treatment before allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation. 
For more information about using Trecondi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Trecondi work? 
The active substance in Trecondi, treosulfan, belongs to a group of medicines called alkylating agents. 
In the body, treosulfan is converted into other compounds called epoxides which kill cells, especially 
cells that develop rapidly such as bone marrow cells. Epoxides act by attaching to the DNA of cells 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
while they are dividing. By doing so, Trecondi can kill cells in the patient’s bone marrow and make 
room for the new cells from a donor. 
What benefits of Trecondi have been shown in studies? 
Three main studies showed that Trecondi is at least as effective as busulfan, another medicine used to 
prepare patients for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
In one of the studies, involving 570 adults with acute myeloid leukaemia (a blood cancer) or 
myelodysplastic syndromes (conditions in which large numbers of abnormal blood cells are produced), 
64% of patients given Trecondi (with fludarabine) had a successful transplant and were alive and 
disease-free after 2 years, compared with 51% of patients given busulfan (with fludarabine). 
In another study involving 70 children with blood cancers, 99% of the children given Trecondi (with 
fludarabine) were alive 3 months after their transplant; 91% of the children were alive after one year 
and 84% after three years.  
In an additional study involving 101 children with other severe disorders requiring a bone marrow 
transplant, none of the 51 children given Trecondi had died from causes related to transplantation in 
the 3 months after the procedure, compared with 5 out of 50 children given busulfan (with 
fludarabine). One year after the transplant, 96% of the children given Trecondi and 88% of those 
given busulfan were alive. 
What are the risks associated with Trecondi? 
The most common side effects in adults and children with Trecondi (which may affect more than 1 in 
10 people) are infections, nausea (feeling sick), stomatitis (inflammation of the lining of the mouth), 
vomiting, and diarrhoea. Tiredness, febrile neutropenia (low white blood cell counts with fever) and 
high blood levels of bilirubin (a breakdown product of red blood cells) are also seen in more than 1 in 
10 adults, and liver toxicity and an increase in blood levels of certain liver enzymes, abdominal pain 
(belly ache), itching and fever may also affect more than 1 in 10 children. 
Common side effects in adults (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) are abdominal pain, 
decreased appetite, rash, itching, hair loss, fever, oedema (swelling due to fluid retention), and an 
increase in blood levels of certain liver enzymes. Common side effects in children (which may affect 
more than 1 in 100 people) are tiredness, febrile neutropenia, rash, hair loss, and high blood levels of 
bilirubin. 
Trecondi must not be used in patients with an active, uncontrolled infection, with severe heart, lung, 
liver or kidney problems, and in patients with Fanconi anaemia and other DNA repair disorders. 
Pregnant women must not use Trecondi and live vaccines must not be given to patients receiving 
Trecondi.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Trecondi authorised in the EU? 
Trecondi is effective at preparing adults and children for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Side effects with Trecondi are manageable and comparable to those seen with busulfan. Like busulfan, 
Trecondi is considered as a conditioning treatment of ‘reduced-intensity’: this means that it is less toxic 
than standard conditioning treatments which are based on chemotherapy with or without radiation. 
Trecondi (treosulfan)  
EMA/95333/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Trecondi’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Trecondi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Trecondi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Trecondi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Trecondi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Trecondi 
Trecondi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 June 2019. 
Further information on Trecondi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/trecondi.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2023. 
Trecondi (treosulfan)  
EMA/95333/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
