TRECONDI 1 G / 5 G POWDER FOR SOLUTION FOR INFUSION 
Summary of risk management plan for Trecondi (INN: treosulfan) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Trecondi 1 g / 5 g powder for solution 
for  infusion.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Trecondi,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised, 
and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Trecondi’s  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information).  
Trecondi’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Trecondi should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Trecondi  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Trecondi’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Trecondi is authorised as part of conditioning treatment prior to allogeneic haematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation (alloHSCT) in adult patients with malignant and non-malignant diseases and 
in  paediatric  patients  older  than  one  month  with  malignant  and  non-malignant  diseases  (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains treosulfan as the active substance and it is given in by 
intravenous infusion over two hours on three consecutive days. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Trecondi’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Trecondi’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trecondi. 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimise  or  further 
characterise the risks 
Important  risks  of  Trecondi,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about Trecondi’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;  
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
  The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Trecondi is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
 
 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Trecondi  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Trecondi. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
–  Treatment-related second malignancy  
–  Seizures in small infants  
–  Effect on fertility 
–  Use in patients with prior alloHSCT 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Treatment-related second malignancy 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Secondary malignancies are well established complications in long-term 
survivors after alloHSCT. They occur rarely after TREO-based conditioning. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Prior treatment with alkylating medicinal products and extensive post-
transplant immunosuppressive treatment. TBI-containing conditioning 
regimens. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 4.4, and 4.8 
PL sections 2, and 4 
Legal status: prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important potential risk: Seizures in small infants  
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Seizures are commonly observed after busulfan-containing conditioning 
regimens. Busulfan freely crosses the blood-brain barrier to achieve 
significant concentrations in the CNS. Busulfan concentrations in the CNS 
are similar to plasma concentrations, which most likely accounts for the 
neurotoxicity seen with high-dose busulfan. In contrast to busulfan, TREO is 
not able to penetrate the blood-brain barrier. However, the blood-brain 
barrier might not yet be fully developed in infants. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Small infants (< 1 year of age). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 
Legal status: prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Seizures in small infants  
None 
Missing information: Effect on fertility 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 4.4, and 4.6 
PL section 2 
Legal status: prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing information: Use in patients with prior alloHSCT 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Legal status: prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Trecondi. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Trecondi. 
 
 
 
 
  
