Summary of risk management plan for Trelegy Ellipta
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Trelegy Ellipta. The RMP details 
important risks of Trelegy Ellipta, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about Trelegy Ellipta's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Trelegy Ellipta summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Trelegy Ellipta should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for Trelegy Ellipta should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Trelegy 
Ellipta RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Trelegy Ellipta is indicated as a maintenance treatment in adult patients with moderate to 
severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for relief of symptoms and reduction in 
exacerbations.  It contains FF/UMEC/VI as the active substance and it is given by oral 
inhalation only. 
Further information about the evaluation of Trelegy Ellipta’s benefits will be found in Trelegy 
Ellipta’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under 
the medicine’s webpage.  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trelegy-ellipta 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or
II.
further characterise the risks
Important risks of Trelegy Ellipta, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Trelegy Ellipta’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•
•
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
•
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Trelegy Ellipta is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing Information’ below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Trelegy Ellipta are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Trelegy Ellipta. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Summary of safety 
concerns 
Important identified risks 
Pneumonia 
Important potential risks 
Serious Cardiovascular Events 
Missing information 
None 
II.B  Summary of important risks
Important Identified Risk: Pneumonia 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
In the Article 31 review (17 March 2016) conducted by Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) evaluating indirect comparisons of the risk of pneumonia 
in COPD patients treated with ICS, it was concluded that COPD patients treated with ICS 
are at increased risk of pneumonia, however, there was no conclusive evidence of 
differences in this risk for different products 
CTT116855 was a large phase III study of over 10.000 patients where 4,151 patients were 
treated with FF/UMEC/VI, 4,134 with FF/VI and 2,070 with UMEC/VI for 52 weeks. There 
was a higher incidence of any event in the pneumonia AESI group in FF/UMEC/VI (317 
subjects [8%]) and FF/VI (292 subjects [7%]) groups compared with the UMEC/VI group 
(97 subjects [5%])  
Given the higher incidence of pneumonia in the FF containing arms, and the class risk of 
pneumonia with ICS use in patients with COPD, and the conclusion of the PRAC review, 
pneumonia is considered an important identified risk with FF/UMEC/VI. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
The following risk factors in COPD have been identified: a prior history of pneumonia (as 
opposed to no prior history), BMI <25 kg/m2, reduced FEV1 (i.e. FEV1 <50% predicted) 
and inhaled corticosteroids use.   
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.4 and section 4.8 of the SmPC (also Section 4 of Product Leaflet). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Important potential risk: Serious cardiovascular events 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Cardiovascular effects have been associated with use of muscarinic antagonists and β2-
agonists in patients with COPD, however, no clear associations have been observed in the 
clinical development programme for FF/UMEC/VI. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Patients with severe cardiovascular disease are at increased risk of future cardiovascular 
events. 
Older age, a history of previous cardiac disease and worse lung function were predictive of 
increased risk of cardiovascular events in the COPD population. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.4 and section 4.8 of the SmPC (also Section 4 of Product Leaflet). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
II.C
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
            There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
 obligation of Trelegy Ellipta. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
           There are no studies required for Trelegy Ellipta. 
