03 April 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-426777  
EMA/OD/0000025710  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Trepulmix (treprostinil sodium) 
Treatment of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension 
EU/3/13/1103 
Sponsor: SciPharm S.a.r.l. 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation .............................................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 20 February 2020 .......................................... 7 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substances at the time of orphan 
Treprostinil sodium 
designation 
Other name 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Tradename 
- 
- 
Trepulmix 
Initial orphan condition 
Treatment of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary 
Sponsor’s details: 
hypertension 
SciPharm S.a.r.l.   
26-28 Rue Edward Steichen 
L-2540 Luxembourg 
Luxembourg  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
SciPharm S.a.r.l. 
09 January 2013 
08 February 2013 
EU/3/13/1103 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Johann Lodewijk Hillege/Ewa Balkowiec Iskra 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
SciPharm S.a.r.l.   
08 February 2019 
28 February 2019 
EMA/H/C/005207 
Trepulmix 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Treatment of adult patients with inoperable chronic 
thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), or 
persistent or recurrent CTEPH after surgical treatment 
(severity classified WHO Functional Class (FC) II, III or 
IV), to improve exercise capacity and symptoms of the 
disease  
Further information on Trepulmix can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trepulmix 
CHMP opinion date 
30 January 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Elisabeth Johanne Rook / Eva Malikova 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
COMP opinion date 
06 January 2020 
20 February 2020 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2013, designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
For the purpose of orphan designation, the COMP considered that the indication should be renamed 
as “treatment of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension” (hereinafter referred to as “the 
condition”). The Committee considered that the condition is  a distinct medical entity based on the 
“Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary hypertension” published in 2009 by the 
Task Force for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Pulmonary Hypertension of the European Society of 
Cardiology (ESC) and the European Respiratory Society (ERS), endorsed by the International 
Society of Heart and Lung Transplantation (ISHLT); 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the proposed condition with the product as applied for designation was 
considered justified in the basis of published clinical data in patients with the proposed condition 
that showed improved survival and physical activity for treated patients; 
based on literature data the condition was estimated to be affecting between 0.1 and 0.52 in 
10,000 people in the European Union, at the time the application; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to impairment of physical ability 
with symptoms including dyspnoea and fatigue and a 5-year survival rate as low as 16% for 
untreated patients with CTEPH; 
•  Although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition exist in the European Union, sufficient 
justifications have been provided that the treprostinil sodium might be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. This appears justified on the grounds of the clinically relevant 
advantage of improved efficacy. This is based on clinical data in inoperable patients with the 
proposed condition who were treated with the proposed product and showed improved survival and 
physical activity. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is a form of pulmonary hypertension which 
is considered a long-term complication of pulmonary embolism, although the underlying processes are 
poorly understood and likely to be multifactorial. Symptoms are non-specific and mainly related to 
progressive right ventricular dysfunction. The COMP considered that the orphan condition is still a well 
described distinct medical entity, acceptable for the purpose of orphan designation.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 4/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed therapeutic indication: “Trepulmix is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
WHO Functional Class (FC) III or IV and: 
- 
inoperable chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), or  
-  persistent or recurrent CTEPH after surgical treatment, 
to improve exercise capacity” 
falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition “Treatment of chronic thromboembolic 
pulmonary hypertension”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The intention to treat was considered acceptable based on the positive benefit/risk assessment of the 
CHMP, please see EPAR.  
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The sponsor noted survival rates at 1, 2, 3 and 5 years of 67%, 43%, 37% and 16%, respectively in 
untreated patients (Skoro-Sajer et al. J Thromb Haemost 2007; 5:483-9). 
The COMP considered that the treatment options have recently evolved with the availability of balloon 
pulmonary angioplasty and pulmonary vasodilators (Taniguchi et al, J Heart Lung Transplant. 2019 
Aug;38(8):833-842); the 1- and 3-year survival rates of patients diagnosed since 2013 have improved 
but still remain at levels of approximately 91.6% and 85.0%.  
The seriousness of the condition was acknowledged on the grounds of impairment of physical ability 
caused by the right heart dysfunction and associated mortality as describe above. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
At the time of the designation, it was estimated, based on published medical literature, that the 
condition affected between 0.1 and 0.52 in 10,000 people in the European Union. A higher estimate is 
proposed at the time of review based on the following assumptions: 
• 
• 
Point prevalence estimates were derived from incidence by multiplying with an assumed 
median duration of approximately 10 years; this duration was assumed from published survival 
curves pointing high survival rates at 1 and 3 years with the available treatment (Taniguchi et 
al, J Heart Lung Transplant. 2019 Aug;38(8):833-842) 
Incidence rates for diagnosed CTEPH cases were derived in turn from a review article by Gall et 
al, (Eur Respir Rev 2017; 26: 160121); this article included data for five European countries in 
2015 and a projection for 2025, and the sponsor interpolated the data and proposed an 
incidence of approximately 0.1 per 10,000 for the time of application. 
•  By using the formula of incidence x duration, an estimate of 1 per 10,000 was proposed for the 
purpose of this maintenance procedure. 
It is also of note that in addition to the established diagnosed cases, an additional figure including 
undiagnosed cases was also proposed, the latter stemming from the assumption that up to 
approximately 4% of pulmonary embolism patients may develop CTEPH. This was then considered in 
addition to cases without PE history (Gall et al, above). The sponsor using this alternative methodology 
estimated a prevalence of 4.4 per 10,000. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While both estimates remain below the threshold, with 1 and 4.4 per 10,000 respectively, it was 
considered by the COMP that inclusion of undiagnosed cases would be a conservative and assumptive 
approach which may overestimate the burden of the condition. The COMP therefore considered the 
conclusion of approximately 1 per 10,000 for the purpose of this maintenance procedure. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Riociguat, is authorised for the treatment of CTEPH in the EU and is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with WHO Functional Class II to III with a) inoperable CTEPH and b) persistent or recurrent 
CTEPH after surgical treatment, to improve exercise capacity. 
Current guidelines on CTEPH (Kim, 2019, Eur Respir J. 2019 Jan 24;53(1)) stress the importance of 
potential surgical treatments for the affected patients: “ In addition to chronic anticoagulation therapy, 
each patient with CTEPH should receive treatment assessment starting with evaluation for pulmonary 
endarterectomy, which is the guideline recommended treatment. For technically inoperable cases, PH-
targeted medical therapy is recommended (currently riociguat based on the CHEST studies), and 
balloon pulmonary angioplasty should be considered at a centre experienced with this challenging but 
potentially effective and complementary intervention”. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor’s main argument for significant benefit is a clinically relevant advantage stemming from 
including CTEPH patients with poor NYHA/WHO functional class III and IV, while riociguat is authorised 
only for CTEPH patients with functional class II and III.  
The pivotal study (CTREPH) in support of the marketing authorisation was a 24-week, randomised, 
double-blind controlled trial, in patients in WHO functional class III or IV with a 6-min walk distance of 
150-400 m at baseline, who were assigned to continuous SC treprostinil low or high dose.  The low 
dose was expected to provide a subtherapeutic effect and was used for blinding purposes of the smell 
and local effects during infusion. The primary endpoint was the change from baseline in 6-min walk 
distance at week 24. 
It was reported that 8 patients (low dose: 5; high dose: 3) with class IV at baseline were included in 
the CTREPH study. One patient died following a septic appendicitis. Seven patients survived the 6 
months blinded study phase. Four entered the follow-up phase. One patient died after 41 months of 
treprostinil treatment. One patient participated 12.6 months before lost to follow-up. Two patients 
were still on treatment within the follow-up phase with a time of survival till October 2018 of 39.6 and 
42.5 months.  
The sponsor presented an analysis of the effects in study CTREPH as per functional class at baseline, 
with regard to the 6MWD change. Albeit not statistically favouring the high dose group, there was a 
trend which was consistent with the effects in other functional classes (figure 1). Other arguments 
presented by the applicant, such as an indirect comparison of the CTREPH results versus the CHEST 
study with the effects of riociguat, were not considered acceptable as the comparability of the 
juxtaposed studies was not justified.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 6/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It was also discussed that the included patients with Fc IV in the trial, who could walk more than 150 
m within 6 minutes at baseline in accordance of the inclusion criteria, are not fully representative of 
the total target population of FcIV patients, who are typically bed-bound. The COMP took into 
consideration that there are no other pharmacological treatments authorised for the use in FcIV CTEPH 
patients, and this supports the significant benefit of Trepulmix. Post-hoc subgroup analyses of five 
patients of the CTREPH study with a prior non satisfactory response to riociguat, also supported 
efficacy of SC treprostinil by showing an adequate response. 
Furthermore, it was also reported that that in a prospective registry with another treprostinil 
containing product, evaluating the efficacy and safety of long-term treatment of SC treprostinil in 
severe PH, showed overall survival rates in CTEPH patients (N=42; 22 subjects started in NYHA IV) of 
79%, 60% and 42% after 1, 5 and 9 years respectively (Sadushi-Kolici et al; Journal of Heart and 
Lung Transplantation, 2012). The effects in functional class IV patients were also supported by further 
literature, where treprostinil improved exercise capacity, hemodynamics and survival in severe 
inoperable disease (Skoro-Sajer, et al. J. Thromb. Haemost. 5(3), 483 – 489) 
Figure1: adopted from the sponsor’s application documents 
Overall it was considered that the addition of functional class IV patients in the authorised indication 
represents a broadening of the population compared to the authorised riociguat, which is only 
authorised for class II and III patients. A clinically relevant advantage of improved efficacy was 
therefore considered justified, taking into consideration the authorised indication. 
4.  COMP position adopted on 20 February 2020 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
• 
the prevalence of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (hereinafter referred to as “the 
condition”) was estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be approximately 1 in 
10,000 persons in the European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to impairment of physical ability 
with symptoms including dyspnoea and fatigue and 5-year survival rates as low as 16% for 
untreated patients with CTEPH;  
•  although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that treprostinil sodium may be of potential significant benefit to 
those affected by the orphan condition still holds. The sponsor has submitted clinical data 
supporting improvements in functional class IV patients, for whom no authorised products exist. 
The Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Trepulmix, treprostinil sodium, 
for treatment of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (EU/3/13/1103) is not removed from 
the Community Register of Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
