EMA/101455/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002498 
EPAR summary for the public 
Tresiba 
insulin degludec 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Tresiba. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Tresiba. 
What is Tresiba? 
Tresiba is a medicine that contains the active substance insulin degludec. It is available as a solution 
for injection in a cartridge (100 units/ml) and in a pre-filled pen (100 units/ml and 200 units/ml).  
What is Tresiba used for? 
Tresiba is used to treat type 1 and type 2 diabetes in adults and children aged 1 to 18 years of age.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Tresiba used? 
Tresiba is injected once a day, preferably at the same time every day. It is given as an injection under 
the skin in the thigh, upper arm or abdominal wall (at the front of the waist). The place within the 
chosen area should be changed with each injection to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy (changes in the 
distribution of body fat) under the skin that can affect the amount of insulin absorbed.  
The correct dose is determined individually for each patient. In type 1 diabetes, Tresiba must always 
be used in combination with rapid acting insulin, which is injected at mealtimes. In type 2 diabetes, 
Tresiba can be used alone or in combination with diabetes medicines given by mouth, GLP-1 receptor 
agonist medicines and rapid acting mealtime insulin. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Tresiba work? 
Diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce enough insulin to control the level of blood 
sugar or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. Tresiba is a replacement insulin that is very 
similar to the natural insulin with a difference that it is absorbed more slowly in the body and takes 
longer to reach its target. This means that Tresiba has a long duration of action. Tresiba acts in the 
same way as naturally produced insulin and helps glucose enter cells from the blood. By controlling the 
level of blood glucose, the symptoms and complications of diabetes are reduced. 
How has Tresiba been studied? 
Tresiba has been studied in three main studies involving 1,578 adults with type 1 diabetes, where 
Tresiba (in combination with rapid acting mealtime insulin) was compared with insulin glargine or 
insulin detemir (other long acting insulins).  
Six other main studies involving 4,076 adults with type 2 diabetes compared Tresiba with insulin 
glargine, insulin detemir or sitagliptin (a medicine taken by mouth for type 2 diabetes). Patients in 
these studies could also be given other diabetes medicines or rapid-acting insulin at mealtimes if 
needed.  Another main study involving 177 adults with type 2 diabetes investigated the effectiveness 
of combining Tresiba and liraglutide (a GLP-1 receptor agonist). 
In addition Tresiba was compared with insulin detemir in one main study involving 350 children aged 1 
to 18 years of age with type 1 diabetes. Patients were also given rapid-acting insulin at mealtimes. 
After 26 weeks of treatment, patients had the option to either stop treatment or continue with it for up 
to a year. 
All of the studies measured the level of a substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin 
(HbA1c), which is the percentage of haemoglobin in the blood attached to glucose. HbA1c gives an 
indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. Studies lasted for six months or one year. 
What benefit has Tresiba shown during the studies? 
The studies showed that Tresiba was at least as effective as other long acting insulins in controlling 
blood glucose levels in adults with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, and more effective than sitagliptin in 
adults with type 2 diabetes. Across the studies, the average reduction in HbA1c levels with Tresiba 
treatment was 0.6 percentage points in adults with type 1 diabetes and 1.2 points in adults with type 2 
diabetes.  
In children, the effects of Tresiba on blood glucose control were similar to those of insulin detemir. 
After 26 weeks of treatment with Tresiba, the average reduction in HbA1c was 0.2 percentage points 
(HbA1c decreased from 8.2% to 8.0%) compared with a reduction of 0.3 percentage points with 
insulin detemir (HbA1c decreased from 8.0% to 7.7%).  
What is the risk associated with Tresiba? 
The most frequently reported side effect during treatment with Tresiba (which may affect more than 1 
in 10 people) is hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose levels).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Tresiba, see the package leaflet. 
Tresiba  
EMA/101455/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why has Tresiba been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Tresiba is effective in controlling blood glucose levels in patients with type 1 
and type 2 diabetes. Regarding its safety, the Committee concluded that Tresiba is generally safe and 
its side effects are comparable to those of other insulin analogues with no unexpected side effects 
reported. It also noted that Tresiba reduces the risk of hypoglycaemia during the night in patients with 
type 1 and type 2 diabetes. The CHMP noted that the higher strength formulation of Tresiba met a 
medical need for patients requiring higher dose insulin (such as overweight patients), which would 
allow these patients to take their daily dose in a single injection rather than two injections. For 
adolescents with type 2 diabetes, the CHMP concluded that although safety and effectiveness had only 
been shown for type 1 diabetes, the results of studies carried out in adolescents with type 1 and other 
studies in adults with type 2 diabetes could be applied to adolescents with type 2. The CHMP decided 
that Tresiba’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing 
authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tresiba? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Tresiba is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Tresiba, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
The company that markets Tresiba will provide educational materials to healthcare professionals 
expected to treat or dispense medicines to patients with diabetes, aimed particularly at raising 
awareness of the higher strength formulation of Tresiba in order to ensure that the patient is 
prescribed the correct strength. It will also produce educational materials for patients on how to use 
Tresiba correctly, which they should receive through their doctor together with suitable training. 
Other information about Tresiba 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Tresiba on 21 January 2013.  
The full EPAR for Tresiba can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Tresiba, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2015.  
Tresiba  
EMA/101455/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
