Summary of risk management plan for Tresiba 
(insulin degludec)  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tresiba. The RMP details important risks of 
Tresiba, how these risks can be minimised and how more information will be obtained about Tresiba’s 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Tresiba’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Tresiba should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Tresiba should be read in the context of all this information, including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the EPAR.  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Tresiba’s RMP 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for  
Tresiba is authorised for the treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults, adolescents and children above 
1 year of age (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains insulin degludec as the active substance and 
it is given intravenously or subcutaneously. 
Further information about the evaluation of benefits of Tresiba  can be found in the EPAR for Tresiba, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
EPAR link. 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Tresiba, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Tresiba 's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct use, in the package 
 
 
 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals  
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so as to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly 
The medicine’s legal status − the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g., with or without 
prescription) can help minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of Tresiba these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimisation measures 
mentioned under relevant risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. In the case of Tresiba, these measures are 
supplemented with additional risk minimisation measures mentioned under relevant risks, below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of Tresiba are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with the use of Tresiba. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
  Medication errors due to mix-up between basal and bolus insulin 
  Medication errors due to mix-up between the different strengths 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
  None 
  None 
of Tresiba 
II.B  Summary of important risks  
The important identified risks for Tresiba are presented below. 
Important identified risks 
Medication errors due to mix-up between basal and bolus insulin  
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Medication errors are a known risk for many insulin products. The risk has 
been observed in clinical development programme and confirmed by reports 
from post-marketing experience. Medication errors in clinical trials are 
systematically collected and the cases are well documented. However, 
clinical trials are unrepresentative of clinical practice and the appearance of 
the device (labelling and cartridge colour) are not the same as the marketed 
device. Post-marketing data include events from all spontaneous cases 
(including literature cases), non-interventional studies and other solicited 
sources.  
Completed therapeutic confirmatory trials using the marketed device in 
which IDeg was used as the investigational drug and market experience are 
the evidence sources of this risk. 
Diabetic patients treated with basal–bolus insulin therapy, patients living 
with another person who has diabetes and visually impaired or colour-blind 
patients may be at a higher risk. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
None. 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical 
measures to address the risk: 
  SmPC 
 
Instructions for avoidance of medication errors are reflected in 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
  Special precautions for disposal and handling of the pre-filled pen 
(FlexTouch) and Penfill are described in Section 6.6 of the SmPC. 
 
Patient leaflet 
  Specific information on how to use Tresiba by patients who are blind 
or have poor eyesight and cannot read the dose counter on the pen 
has been included in the package leaflet for the patient. 
 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Product differentiation strategy; includes trade names, label text, colour 
branding of the carton, container label and cartridge holder. 
Abbreviations: SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None. 
Medication errors due to mix-up between different strengths of Tresiba 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Medication errors are a known risk for many insulin products. The risk has 
been observed in clinical development programme and confirmed by 
reports from post-marketing experience. Medication errors in clinical trials 
are systematically collected and the cases are well documented. However, 
clinical trials are unrepresentative of clinical practice and the appearance 
of the device (labelling and cartridge colour) are not the same as the 
marketed device. Post-marketing data include events from all 
spontaneous cases (including literature cases), non-interventional studies 
and other solicited sources. Completed therapeutic confirmatory trials 
using the marketed device in which IDeg was used as the investigational 
drug and market experience are the evidence sources of this risk. 
Visually impaired patients with diabetes who are erroneously prescribed or 
dispensed the wrong concentration of Tresiba in the FlexTouch device 
The device is not intended for self-injection by patients with poor 
eyesight.  
The other risk factor is patients with ‘pseudo awareness’ who think they 
should re-calculate the dose. 
Colour-blind patients with diabetes who are erroneously prescribed or 
dispensed the wrong concentration of Tresiba in the FlexTouch device. 
These patients may not notice the different colour and have to rely on 
other features to identify the concentration. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical 
measures to address the risk: 
  SmPC 
 
Instructions for avoidance of medication errors are reflected in 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
  Special precautions for disposal and handling of the pre-filled pen 
(FlexTouch) and Penfill is described in Section 6.6 of the SmPC. 
 
Patient leaflet 
 
Instruction for patients to check the name and strength on the 
label of the pen to make sure it is Tresiba 100 units/mL or 
Tresiba 200 units/mL. 
  Specific information on how to use Tresiba by patients who are 
 
blind or have poor eyesight and cannot read the dose counter on 
the pen has been included in the package leaflet for the patient. 
Instructions on how to use Tresiba 100 units/mL and 200 
units/mL solution for injection in pre-filled pen (FlexTouch) is 
included in the package leaflet for the patient. 
 
 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
 
Product differentiation strategy; includes trade names, label text, 
colour branding of the carton, container label and cartridge holder. 
  Distinct colour coding, coloured side panels (only on Tresiba 200 
 
units/mL packaging) and different packaging sizes. 
For patients who are colour blind, a tactile element has been added to 
the push-button to help differentiate the two formulations. This step is 
in addition to reading the formulation information on the packaging 
and pen. 
  Concentration included on red background on all faces of the outer 
carton except bottom and additionally on the pen (Tresiba 200 
units/mL). 
  Cautionary text on the carton ‘Caution − One step equals 2 units − 
The pen shows the dose’ added in box with red borders on the front 
panel (only on Tresiba 200 units/mL packaging). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Additional risk minimisation activities are distributed when Tresiba 200 
units/mL dose strength is newly launched and on a yearly basis for the 
first 2 years to help mitigate the medication errors due to mix-up between 
different strengths of Tresiba, including a direct healthcare professional 
communication, a poster for display in pharmacies/diabetic units and a 
patient education leaflet.  
The information will describe: 
 
The distinct colour coding, coloured side panels (only on Tresiba 
200 units/mL packaging), different packaging sizes. 
  Concentration prominently included on red background on all faces of 
 
the outer carton except bottom and additionally on the pen. 
For patients who are colour blind, a tactile element has been added to 
the push-button to help differentiate the two formulations. This step is 
in addition to reading the formulation information on the packaging 
and pen. 
  Cautionary text on the carton ‘Caution − One step equals 2 units − 
The pen shows the dose’ added in box with red borders on the front 
panel (only on Tresiba 200 units/mL packaging). 
Abbreviations: SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Important potential risks 
There are no important potential risks in the safety specification for Tresiba. 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan  
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of Tresiba. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan  
There are no studies required for Tresiba. 
