EMA/278749/2016  
EMEA/H/C/004066 
EPAR summary for the public 
Trevicta1 
paliperidone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Trevicta. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Trevicta. 
For practical information about using Trevicta, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Trevicta and what is it used for? 
Trevicta is an antipsychotic medicine used for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults 
whose disease has been stable on treatment with once-monthly injections of paliperidone. The 
symptoms of schizophrenia include disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing 
things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (false beliefs).  
Trevicta contains the active substance paliperidone. 
How is Trevicta used? 
Trevicta is available as a prolonged-release suspension for injection in pre-filled syringes (175 mg, 
263 mg, 350 mg and 525 mg). Prolonged-release means that the active substance, paliperidone, is 
released slowly over a few months after being injected. The medicine can only be obtained with a 
prescription. 
Trevicta is given by a healthcare professional. It is given every 3 months by slow injection into the 
upper part of the shoulder (deltoid muscle) or the buttocks. The dose of Trevicta is 3.5 times the dose 
of the monthly injections of paliperidone the patient was previously receiving. 
For more information on the use of Trevicta, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of 
the EPAR). 
1 Previously known as Paliperidone Janssen. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                       
How does Trevicta work? 
The active substance in this medicine, paliperidone, is an antipsychotic medicine. Paliperidone is an 
active breakdown product (metabolite) of risperidone, another antipsychotic medicine that has been 
used in the treatment of schizophrenia since the 1990s. In the brain, paliperidone attaches to several 
different receptors on the surface of nerve cells. This disrupts signals transmitted between brain cells 
by ‘neurotransmitters’, substances that nerve cells use to communicate with neighbouring cells. 
Paliperidone acts mainly by blocking the receptors for the neurotransmitters dopamine and 5-
hydroxytryptamine (also called serotonin). By blocking these receptors, paliperidone helps to normalise 
the activity of the brain and reduce symptoms of the disease. 
Paliperidone has been authorised in the European Union (EU) as Invega since 2007 for use by mouth 
to treat schizophrenia. It has also been authorised as Xeplion since 2011 for use by monthly injections 
for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia. In Trevicta as in Xeplion, paliperidone has been 
attached to a fatty acid that allows it to be released slowly after being injected. This gives the medicine 
a long duration of action. 
What benefits of Trevicta have been shown in studies? 
Two studies have been conducted with Trevicta given every 3 months. In one of them (involving 1,016 
patients) Trevicta was as effective as paliperidone monthly injections in preventing relapses of 
schizophrenia. In the second study (in 305 patients) Trevicta was more effective than placebo (a 
dummy treatment), with 9% of patients given the medicine suffering a relapse of their condition 
compared with 29% of those on placebo. 
Because paliperidone for use by monthly injections has already been authorised in the EU as Xeplion, 
the company also used data from Xeplion to support the use of Trevicta. 
What are the risks associated with Trevicta? 
The most common side effects with Trevicta (seen in at least 5 in 100 patients) are insomnia (difficulty 
sleeping), headache, anxiety, upper respiratory tract infections (such as colds), reactions at the site of 
injection and increased weight. 
For the full list of all side effects reported with Trevicta, see the package leaflet.  
Trevicta must not be given to people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to paliperidone or any of the 
other ingredients, or to risperidone.  
Why is Trevicta approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) noted that paliperidone 
injections are effective in treating schizophrenia symptoms. Trevicta, which is given by injection every 
3 months, is more effective than placebo and as effective as paliperidone monthly injection in 
preventing relapses of schizophrenia. The 3-monthly injection is expected to be more convenient to 
patients and improve their adherence to treatment, and no new safety concerns were raised with this 
formulation compared with the known safety profile of paliperidone. The Committee therefore decided 
that Trevicta’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Trevicta0F  
EMA/278749/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Trevicta? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Trevicta is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Trevicta, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Trevicta 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Paliperidone Janssen on 5 December 2014. This authorisation was based on the authorisation granted 
to Xeplion in 2011 (‘informed consent’). The name of the medicine was changed to Trevicta on  
26 May 2016. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Trevicta can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Trevicta, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2016.  
Trevicta0F  
EMA/278749/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
