Summary of Risk Management Plan for
TREVICTA (Paliperidone Palmitate 3-Monthly Injection)
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  TREVICTA.  The  RMP  details 
important  risks  of  TREVICTA,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more  information 
will be obtained about TREVICTA's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
TREVICTA's  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet (PL) give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  TREVICTA  should  be 
used.
This summary of the RMP for TREVICTA should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment  report of the evaluation and its  plain-language summary,  all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
TREVICTA's RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What It Is Used For
TREVICTA is authorized for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adult patients who 
are  clinically  stable  on  1-monthly  paliperidone  palmitate  injectable  product (see  SmPC  for  the 
full  indication).  It  contains  paliperidone  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  administered  by 
injection  as  a  prolonged-release  suspension  in  prefilled  syringes  containing  273,  410,  546,  or 
819 mg  of  TREVICTA;  which  is  equivalent  to  175,  263,  350,  or  525  mg,  respectively,  of 
paliperidone. TREVICTA is administered by a healthcare professional.
Further information about the evaluation of TREVICTA's benefits can be found in TREVICTA's 
EPAR,  including in its plain-language summary,  available on the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) website, under the medicine's webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trevicta.
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or 
Further Characterize the Risks
Important risks of TREVICTA, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about TREVICTA's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  PL
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine's packaging;
The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;
The  medicine's  legal  status  - the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analyzed  including  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report  (PSUR)  assessment  so  that 
immediate  action  can  be 
routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.
taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  TREVICTA  is  not  yet  available,  it  is 
listed under "missing information" below.
II.A.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of TREVICTA are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  TREVICTA.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is  currently missing and needs to be 
collected.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks None
Important potential risks
None
Missing information
Exposure during pregnancy
II.B.
Summary of Important Risks
Missing Information: Exposure during pregnancy
Risk minimization
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPCs for INVEGA, XEPLION, Paliperidone Janssen-Cilag International, 
and TREVICTA:
Section 4.6, Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Section 5.3, Preclinical safety data
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
II.C.
Postauthorization Development Plan
II.C.1.
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
No studies are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation for TREVICTA.
II.C.2.
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan
No studies are required for TREVICTA.
