ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Trimbow 87 micrograms/5 micrograms/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each delivered dose (the dose leaving the mouthpiece) contains 87 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 5 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium (as 
11 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide). 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium 
(as 12.5 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide). 
Excipient with known effect: 
Trimbow contains 8.856 mg ethanol per actuation. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Pressurised inhalation, solution (pressurised inhalation) 
Colourless to yellowish liquid solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
Maintenance treatment in adult patients with moderate to severe COPD who are not adequately treated 
by a combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and a long-acting beta2-agonist or a combination of a 
long-acting beta2-agonist and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (for effects on symptoms control 
and prevention of exacerbations see section 5.1). 
Asthma 
Maintenance treatment of asthma, in adults not adequately controlled with a maintenance combination 
of a long-acting beta2-agonist and medium dose of inhaled corticosteroid, and who experienced one or 
more asthma exacerbations in the previous year. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is two inhalations twice daily. 
The maximum dose is two inhalations twice daily. 
Patients should be advised to take Trimbow every day even when asymptomatic.  
If symptoms arise in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist should be used 
for immediate relief. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asthma 
When choosing the starting dose strength of Trimbow (87/5/9 micrograms or 172/5/9 micrograms), the 
patients’ disease severity, their previous asthma therapy including the inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) 
dose as well as the patients’ current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbation 
should be considered. 
Stepping-down treatment 
Patients should be regularly reassessed by a doctor, so that their doses of 
beclometasone/formoterol/glycopyrronium remain optimal and are only changed on medical advice. 
The doses should be titrated to the lowest doses at which effective control of asthma symptoms is 
maintained.  
Special populations 
Elderly  
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients (65 years of age and older). 
Renal impairment 
Trimbow can be used at the recommended dose in patients with mild (glomerular filtration rate [GFR] 
≥50 to <80 mL/min/1.73 m2) to moderate (GFR ≥30 to <50 mL/min/1.73 m2) renal impairment. Use in 
patients with severe (GFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m2) renal impairment or end-stage renal (GFR 
<15 mL/min/1.73 m2) disease requiring dialysis, especially if associated with significant body weight 
reduction, should be considered only if the expected benefit outweighs the potential risk (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
There are no relevant data on the use of Trimbow in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(classified as having Child-Pugh class C) and the medicinal product should be used with caution in 
these patients (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
COPD 
There is no relevant use of Trimbow in the paediatric population (under 18 years of age) for the 
indication of COPD. 
Asthma 
The safety and efficacy of Trimbow in the paediatric population (under 18 years of age) have not yet 
been established. No data are available.  
Method of administration 
For inhalation use. 
To ensure proper administration of the medicinal product, the patient should be shown how to use the 
inhaler correctly by a physician or other healthcare professional, who should also regularly check the 
adequacy of the patient’s inhalation technique (see “Instructions for use” below). The patient should 
be advised to read the Package Leaflet carefully and follow the instructions for use as given in the 
leaflet.  
This medicinal product is provided with a dose counter or dose indicator on the back of the inhaler, 
which shows how many actuations are left. For the 60 and 120 actuation pressurised containers, each 
time the patient presses the container a puff of the solution is released and the counter counts down by 
one.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the 180 actuation pressurised container, each time the patient presses the pressurised container a 
puff of the solution is released and the indicator rotates by a small amount; the number of puffs 
remaining is displayed in intervals of 20. 
The patient should be advised not to drop the inhaler as this may cause the counter to count down. 
Instructions for use 
Priming the inhaler 
Before using the inhaler for the first time, the patient should release one actuation into the air in order 
to ensure that the inhaler is working properly (priming). Before priming the 60, 120 or 180 actuation 
pressurised containers, the counter/indicator should read 61, 121 or 180, respectively. After priming, 
the counter/indicator should read 60, 120 or 180.  
Use of the inhaler 
The patient should stand or sit in an upright position when inhaling from the inhaler. The steps below 
should be followed.  
IMPORTANT: steps 2 to 5 should not be performed too quickly: 
1. 
The patient should remove the protective cap from the mouthpiece and check that the 
mouthpiece is clean and free from dust and dirt or any other foreign objects. 
The patient should breathe out slowly and as deeply as comfortable, in order to empty the lungs. 
The patient should hold the inhaler vertically with its body upwards and place the mouthpiece 
between the teeth without biting. The lips should then be placed around the mouthpiece, with 
the tongue flat under it.  
At the same time, the patient should breathe in slowly and deeply through the mouth until the 
lungs are full of air (this should take approximately 4 – 5 seconds). Immediately after starting to 
breathe in, the patient should firmly press down on the top of the pressurised container to 
release one puff. 
The patient should then hold the breath for as long as comfortably possible, then remove the 
inhaler from the mouth and breathe out slowly. The patient should not breathe out into the 
inhaler. 
The patient should then check the dose counter or dose indicator to ensure it has moved 
accordingly. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
To inhale the second puff, the patient should keep the inhaler in a vertical position for approximately 
30 seconds and repeat steps 2 to 6. 
If mist appears after the inhalation, either from the inhaler or from the sides of the mouth, the 
procedure should be repeated from step 2. 
After use, the patient should close the inhaler with the protective mouthpiece cap and check the dose 
counter or dose indicator. 
After inhaling, the patient should rinse the mouth or gargle with water without swallowing it or brush 
the teeth (see also section 4.4). 
When to get a new inhaler 
The patient should be advised to get a new inhaler when the dose counter or indicator shows the 
number 20. He/she should stop using the inhaler when the counter or indicator shows 0 as any puffs 
left in the device may not be enough to release a full actuation. 
Additional instructions for specific groups of patients 
For patients with weak hands it may be easier to hold the inhaler with both hands. Therefore, the index 
fingers should be placed on the top of the pressurised container and both thumbs on the base of the 
inhaler.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who find it difficult to synchronise aerosol actuation with inspiration of breath may use the 
AeroChamber Plus spacer device, properly cleaned as described in the relevant leaflet. They should be 
advised by their doctor or pharmacist about the proper use and care of their inhaler and spacer and 
their technique checked to ensure optimum delivery of the inhaled active substance to the lungs. This 
may be obtained by the patients using the AeroChamber Plus by one continuous slow and deep breath 
through the spacer, without any delay between actuation and inhalation. Alternatively, patients may 
simply breathe in and out (through the mouth) after the actuation, as instructed in the spacer leaflet, to 
obtain the medicinal product (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Cleaning 
For the regular cleaning of the inhaler, patients should remove weekly the cap from the mouthpiece 
and wipe the outside and inside of the mouthpiece with a dry cloth. They should not remove the 
pressurised container from the actuator and should not use water or other liquids to clean the 
mouthpiece. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Not for acute use 
This medicinal product is not indicated for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm, or to treat 
an acute disease exacerbation (i.e. as a rescue therapy). 
Hypersensitivity 
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported after administration. If signs suggesting 
allergic reactions occur, in particular, angioedema (including difficulties in breathing or swallowing, 
swelling of the tongue, lips and face), urticaria or skin rash, treatment should be discontinued 
immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 
Paradoxical bronchospasm 
Paradoxical bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing and shortness of breath 
after dosing. This should be treated immediately with a fast-acting inhaled bronchodilator (reliever). 
Treatment should be discontinued immediately, the patient assessed and alternative therapy instituted 
if necessary. 
Deterioration of disease 
It is recommended that treatment should not be stopped abruptly. If patients find the treatment 
ineffective, they should continue treatment but medical attention must be sought. Increasing use of 
reliever bronchodilators indicates a worsening of the underlying condition and warrants a reassessment 
of the therapy. Sudden or progressive deterioration in symptoms is potentially life-threatening and the 
patient should undergo urgent medical assessment. 
Cardiovascular effects 
Due to the presence of a long-acting beta2-agonist and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist, Trimbow 
should be used with caution in patients with cardiac arrhythmias, especially third degree 
atrioventricular block and tachyarrhythmias (accelerated and/or irregular heartbeat, including atrial 
fibrillation), idiopathic subvalvular aortic stenosis, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, severe 
heart disease (particularly acute myocardial infarction, ischaemic heart disease, congestive heart 
failure), occlusive vascular diseases (particularly arteriosclerosis), arterial hypertension and aneurysm. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Caution should also be exercised when treating patients with known or suspected prolongation of the 
QTc interval (QTc > 450 milliseconds for males, or > 470 milliseconds for females), either congenital 
or induced by medicinal products. Patients diagnosed with the described cardiovascular conditions 
were excluded from clinical studies with Trimbow. Limited data in asthmatic patients with 
cardiovascular co-morbidities or risk-factors suggest that these patients are also at higher risk of 
adverse reactions like local fungal infections or dysphonia (see section 4.8). 
If anaesthesia with halogenated anaesthetics is planned, it should be ensured that Trimbow is not 
administered for at least 12 hours before the start of anaesthesia as there is a risk of cardiac 
arrhythmias. 
Caution is also required when treating patients with thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, 
pheochromocytoma and untreated hypokalaemia. 
Pneumonia in patients with COPD 
An increase in the incidence of pneumonia, including pneumonia requiring hospitalisation, has been 
observed in patients with COPD receiving inhaled corticosteroids. There is some evidence of an 
increased risk of pneumonia with increasing steroid dose but this has not been demonstrated 
conclusively across all studies. 
There is no conclusive clinical evidence for intra-class differences in the magnitude of the pneumonia 
risk among inhaled corticosteroid products. 
Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD 
as the clinical features of such infections overlap with the symptoms of COPD exacerbations. 
Risk factors for pneumonia in patients with COPD include current smoking, older age, low body mass 
index (BMI) and severe COPD. 
Systemic corticosteroid effects 
Systemic effects may occur with any inhaled corticosteroid, particularly at high doses prescribed for 
long periods. The daily dose of Trimbow corresponds to a medium dose of inhaled corticosteroid; 
furthermore, these effects are much less likely to occur than with oral corticosteroids. Possible 
systemic effects include: Cushing's syndrome, Cushingoid features, adrenal suppression, growth 
retardation, decrease in bone mineral density and, more rarely, a range of psychological or behavioural 
effects including psychomotor hyperactivity, sleep disorders, anxiety, depression or aggression 
(particularly in children). Therefore, it is important that the patient is reviewed regularly, and the dose 
of inhaled corticosteroid is reduced to the lowest dose at which effective control of asthma is 
maintained (see section 4.2). 
Trimbow should be administered with caution in patients with active or quiescent pulmonary 
tuberculosis and in patients with fungal and viral infections in the airways. 
Hypokalaemia 
Potentially serious hypokalaemia may result from beta2-agonist therapy. This has the potential to 
produce adverse cardiovascular effects. Particular caution is advised in patients with severe disease as 
this effect may be potentiated by hypoxia. Hypokalaemia may also be potentiated by concomitant 
treatment with other medicinal products which can induce hypokalaemia, such as xanthine derivatives, 
steroids and diuretics (see section 4.5). 
Caution is also recommended when a number of reliever bronchodilators are used. It is recommended 
that serum potassium levels are monitored in such situations. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hyperglycaemia 
The inhalation of formoterol may cause a rise in blood glucose levels. Therefore, blood glucose should 
be monitored during treatment following established guidelines in patients with diabetes. 
Anticholinergic effect 
Glycopyrronium should be used with caution in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma, prostatic 
hyperplasia or urinary retention. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of acute 
narrow-angle glaucoma and should be informed to stop treatment and to contact their doctor 
immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop. 
Additionally, due to the anticholinergic effect of glycopyrronium, the long-term co-administration 
with other anticholinergic-containing medicinal products is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
In patients with severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease requiring 
dialysis, especially if associated with a significant body weight reduction, Trimbow should be used 
only if the expected benefit outweighs the potential risk (see section 5.2). These patients should be 
monitored for potential adverse reactions. 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment 
In patients with severe hepatic impairment, Trimbow should be used only if the expected benefit 
outweighs the potential risk (see section 5.2). These patients should be monitored for potential adverse 
reactions. 
Prevention of oropharyngeal infections 
In order to reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candida infection, patients should be advised to rinse their 
mouth or gargle with water without swallowing it or brush their teeth after inhaling the prescribed 
dose. 
Visual disturbance 
Visual disturbance may be reported with systemic and topical corticosteroid use. If a patient presents 
with symptoms such as blurred vision or other visual disturbances, the patient should be considered for 
referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation of possible causes which may include cataract, glaucoma 
or rare diseases such as central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR) which have been reported after use 
of systemic and topical corticosteroids.  
Stepping-down treatment 
Patients should be regularly reassessed by a doctor, so that their doses of 
beclometasone/formoterol/glycopyrronium remain optimal and are only changed on medical advice. 
The doses should be titrated to the lowest doses at which effective control of asthma symptoms is 
maintained. 
Ethanol contents 
This medicinal product contains 8.856 mg of ethanol per actuation, which is equivalent to 17.712 mg 
per dose of two actuations. There is a theoretical potential for interaction in particularly sensitive 
patients taking disulfiram or metronidazole. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Since glycopyrronium is eliminated mainly by the renal route, interaction could potentially occur with 
medicinal products affecting renal excretion mechanisms (see section 5.2). The effect of organic 
cation transport inhibition (using cimetidine as a probe inhibitor of OCT2 and MATE1 transporters) in 
the kidneys on inhaled glycopyrronium disposition showed a limited increase in its total systemic 
exposure (AUC0-t) by 16% and a slight decrease in renal clearance by 20% due to co administration of 
cimetidine. 
Beclometasone is less dependent on CYP3A metabolism than some other corticosteroids, and in 
general interactions are unlikely; however, the possibility of systemic effects with concomitant use of 
strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, cobicistat) cannot be excluded, and therefore caution and 
appropriate monitoring is advised with the use of such medicinal products. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Related to formoterol 
Non-cardioselective beta-blockers (including eye drops) should be avoided in patients taking inhaled 
formoterol. If they are administered for compelling reasons, the effect of formoterol will be reduced or 
abolished.  
Concomitant use of other beta-adrenergic medicinal products can have potentially additive effects; 
therefore, caution is required when other beta-adrenergic medicinal products are prescribed 
concomitantly with formoterol. 
Concomitant treatment with quinidine, disopyramide, procainamide, antihistamines, monoamine 
oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants and phenothiazines can prolong the QT interval and 
increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmias. In addition, L-dopa, L-thyroxine, oxytocin and alcohol 
can impair cardiac tolerance towards beta2-sympathomimetics. 
Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, including medicinal products with similar 
properties such as furazolidone and procarbazine, may precipitate hypertensive reactions. 
There is an elevated risk of arrhythmias in patients receiving concomitant anaesthesia with 
halogenated hydrocarbons. 
Concomitant treatment with xanthine derivatives, steroids, or diuretics may potentiate a possible 
hypokalaemic effect of beta2-agonists (see section 4.4). Hypokalaemia may increase the disposition 
towards arrhythmias in patients who are treated with digitalis glycosides. 
Related to glycopyrronium 
The long-term co-administration of Trimbow with other anticholinergic-containing medicinal products 
has not been studied and is therefore not recommended (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
There is no experience with or evidence of safety issues on the use of the propellant norflurane 
(HFA134a) during human pregnancy or lactation. However, studies on the effect of HFA134a on the 
reproductive function and embryofoetal development in animals revealed no clinically relevant 
adverse effects. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of Trimbow in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Glucocorticoids are known to 
cause effects in the early gestation phase, while beta2-sympathomimetics like formoterol have 
tocolytic effects. Therefore, as a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of Trimbow 
during pregnancy and during labour. 
Trimbow should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefit to the patient outweighs the 
potential risk to the foetus. Infants and neonates born to mothers receiving substantial doses should be 
observed for adrenal suppression. 
Breast-feeding 
There are no relevant clinical data on the use of Trimbow during breast-feeding in humans.  
Glucocorticoids are excreted in human milk. It is reasonable to assume that beclometasone 
dipropionate and its metabolites are also excreted in human milk. 
It is unknown whether formoterol or glycopyrronium (including their metabolites) are excreted in 
human milk but they have been detected in the milk of lactating animals. Anticholinergics like 
glycopyrronium could suppress lactation. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
Trimbow therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
No specific studies have been performed with Trimbow with regard to the safety in human fertility. 
Animal studies have shown impairment of fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Trimbow has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions in patients with COPD or asthma are respectively: 
dysphonia (0.3% and 1.5%) and oral candidiasis (0.8% and 0.3%), which are normally associated with 
inhaled corticosteroids; muscle spasms (0.4% and 0.2%), which can be attributed to the long-acting 
beta2-agonist component; and dry mouth (0.4% and 0.5%), which is a typical anticholinergic effect. 
In asthmatic patients, adverse reactions tend to cluster during the first 3 months following initiation of 
therapy and become less frequent with longer-term use (after 6 months of treatment). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions associated to beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol/glycopyrronium occurred 
during clinical studies and post-marketing experience as well as adverse reactions listed for the 
marketed individual components are provided below, listed by system organ class and frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 
to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated 
from available data). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Adverse reaction 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Pneumonia (in COPD patients), pharyngitis, oral 
candidiasis, urinary tract infection1, nasopharyngitis1 
Influenza1, oral fungal infection, oropharyngeal 
candidiasis, oesophageal candidiasis, fungal 
(oro)pharyngitis, sinusitis1, rhinitis1, gastroenteritis1, 
vulvovaginal candidiasis1 
Lower respiratory tract infection (fungal) 
Granulocytopenia1 
Thrombocytopenia1 
Dermatitis allergic1 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including erythema, lips, face, 
eye and pharyngeal oedema 
Adrenal suppression1 
Hypokalaemia, hyperglycaemia 
Decreased appetite 
Restlessness1 
Psychomotor hyperactivity1, sleep disorders1, anxiety, 
depression1, aggression1, behavioural changes 
(predominantly in children) 1 
Insomnia 
Headache 
Tremor, dizziness, dysgeusia1, hypoaesthesia1 
Hypersomnia 
Vision, blurred1 (see also section 4.4) 
Glaucoma1, cataract1 
Otosalpingitis1 
Atrial fibrillation, electrocardiogram QT prolonged, 
tachycardia, tachyarrhythmia1, palpitations 
Angina pectoris (stable1 and unstable), extrasystoles 
(ventricular1 and supraventricular), nodal rhythm, sinus 
bradycardia 
Hyperaemia1, flushing1, hypertension 
Extravasation blood  
Dysphonia 
Asthmatic crisis1, cough, productive cough1, throat 
irritation, epistaxis1, pharyngeal erythema 
Bronchospasm paradoxical1, exacerbation of asthma, 
oropharyngeal pain, pharyngeal inflammation, dry throat 
Dyspnoea1 
Diarrhoea1, dry mouth, dysphagia1, nausea, dyspepsia1, 
burning sensation of the lips1, dental caries1, (aphthous) 
stomatitis 
Rash1, urticaria, pruritus, hyperhidrosis1 
Angioedema1 
Muscle spasms, myalgia, pain in extremity1, 
musculoskeletal chest pain1 
Growth retardation1 
Dysuria, urinary retention, nephritis1 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Frequency not 
known 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Frequency not 
known 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Rare 
10 
 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Adverse reaction 
Fatigue1  
Asthenia 
Oedema peripheral1 
C-reactive protein increased1, platelet count increased1, 
free fatty acids increased1, blood insulin increased1, blood 
ketone body increased1, cortisol decreased1 
Blood pressure increased1, blood pressure decreased1 
Bone density decreased1 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
1 Adverse reactions reported in the SmPC of at least one of the individual components, but not observed as 
adverse reactions in the clinical development of Trimbow  
Among the observed adverse reactions the following are typically associated with: 
Beclometasone dipropionate 
Pneumonia, oral fungal infections, lower respiratory tract infection fungal, dysphonia, throat irritation, 
hyperglycaemia, psychiatric disorders, cortisol decreased, blurred vision. 
Formoterol 
Hypokalaemia, hyperglycaemia, tremor, palpitations, muscle spasms, electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged, blood pressure increased, blood pressure decreased, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, 
tachyarrhythmia, angina pectoris (stable and unstable), ventricular extrasystoles, nodal rhythm. 
Glycopyrronium 
Glaucoma, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, palpitations, dry mouth, dental caries, dysuria, urinary 
retention, urinary tract infection.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
An overdose of Trimbow may produce signs and symptoms due to the individual component’s 
pharmacological actions, including those seen with overdose of other beta2-agonists or 
anticholinergics and consistent with the known inhaled corticosteroid class effects (see section 4.4). If 
overdose occurs, the patient’s symptoms should be treated supportively with appropriate monitoring as 
necessary. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Drugs for obstructive airway diseases, adrenergics in combination with 
anticholinergics incl. triple combinations with corticosteroids. ATC code: R03AL09. 
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic effects 
Trimbow contains beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol and glycopyrronium (BDP/FF/G) in a 
solution formulation resulting in an aerosol with extrafine particles with an average mass median 
aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of around 1.1 micrometres and co-deposition of the three 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
components. The aerosol particles of Trimbow are on average much smaller than the particles 
delivered in non-extrafine formulations. For beclometasone dipropionate, this results in a more potent 
effect than formulations with a non-extrafine particle size distribution (100 micrograms of 
beclometasone dipropionate extrafine in Trimbow are equivalent to 250 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate in a non-extrafine formulation). 
Beclometasone dipropionate 
Beclometasone dipropionate given by inhalation at recommended doses has a glucocorticoid anti-
inflammatory action within the lungs. Glucocorticoids are widely used for the suppression of 
inflammation in chronic inflammatory diseases of the airways. Their action is mediated by the binding 
to glucocorticoid receptors in the cytoplasm resulting in the increased transcription of genes coding for 
anti-inflammatory proteins. 
Formoterol 
Formoterol is a selective beta2-adrenergic agonist that produces relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle 
in patients with reversible airways obstruction. The bronchodilating effect sets in rapidly, within 
1-3 minutes after inhalation, and has a duration of 12 hours after a single dose. 
Glycopyrronium 
Glycopyrronium is a high-affinity, long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (anticholinergic) used 
for inhalation as bronchodilator treatment. Glycopyrronium works by blocking the bronchoconstrictor 
action of acetylcholine on airway smooth muscle cells, thereby dilating the airways. Glycopyrronium 
bromide is a high affinity muscarinic receptor antagonist with a greater than 4-fold selectivity for the 
human M3 receptors over the human M2 receptor as it has been demonstrated. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
COPD 
The Phase III clinical development programme in COPD was conducted with BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 and 
included two 52-week active-controlled studies. The TRILOGY study compared BDP/FF/G with a 
fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol 100/6 micrograms two inhalations 
twice daily (1,368 randomised patients). The TRINITY study compared BDP/FF/G with tiotropium 
18 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsule, one inhalation once daily; in addition, effects were 
compared with an extemporary triple combination made of a fixed combination of beclometasone 
dipropionate and formoterol 100/6 micrograms (corresponding to a delivered dose of 84.6/5.0 
micrograms) two inhalations twice daily plus tiotropium 18 micrograms inhalation powder, hard 
capsule, one inhalation once daily (2,691 randomised patients). Both studies were conducted in 
patients with a clinical diagnosis of COPD with severe to very severe airflow limitation (FEV1 less 
than 50% predicted), with symptoms assessed as a COPD Assessment Test (CAT) score of 10 or 
above, and with at least one COPD exacerbation in the previous year. The two studies included 
approximately 20% of patients who used the AeroChamber Plus spacer. 
In addition, two Phase IIIb studies were conducted to support the clinical efficacy and safety of 
BDP/FF/G. TRISTAR was a 26-week active-controlled open label study comparing BDP/FF/G with 
an extemporary combination made of a fixed combination of fluticasone/vilanterol 92/22 micrograms 
inhalation powder, one inhalation once daily plus tiotropium 18 micrograms inhalation powder, hard 
capsule, one inhalation once daily (1,157 randomised patients). TRIBUTE was a 52-week active-
controlled study comparing BDP/FF/G with a fixed combination of indacaterol/glycopyrronium 85/43 
micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsule, one inhalation once daily (1,532 randomised patients). 
Both studies were conducted in a similar population of COPD patients as studies TRILOGY and 
TRINITY.  
Reduction of COPD exacerbations 
Compared with a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol, BDP/FF/G 
reduced the rate of moderate/severe exacerbations over 52 weeks by 23% (rate: 0.41 versus 0.53 
events per patient/year; p = 0.005). Compared with tiotropium, BDP/FF/G reduced the rate of 
moderate/severe exacerbations over 52 weeks by 20% (rate: 0.46 versus 0.57 events per patient/year; 
p = 0.003). Compared with a fixed combination of indacaterol and glycopyrronium, BDP/FF/G 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduced the rate of moderate/severe exacerbations over 52 weeks by 15% (rate: 0.50 versus 0.59 
events per patient/year; p = 0.043). Compared with tiotropium, BDP/FF/G also reduced the rate of 
severe exacerbations (i.e. excluding moderate exacerbations) by 32% (rate: 0.067 versus 0.098 events 
per patient/year; p = 0.017). No differences were observed when comparing BDP/FF/G with the 
extemporary triple combination made of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol fixed 
combination plus tiotropium (moderate/severe exacerbation rate: 0.46 versus 0.45 events per 
patient/year). 
In addition, compared with both a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol 
and with tiotropium, BDP/FF/G significantly prolonged the time to first exacerbation (hazard ratio 
0.80 and 0.84 respectively; p = 0.020 and 0.015 respectively), with no differences between BDP/FF/G 
and the extemporary triple combination made of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol fixed 
combination plus tiotropium (hazard ratio 1.06). 
Effects on lung function 
Pre-dose FEV1 
Compared with a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol, BDP/FF/G 
improved pre-dose FEV1 by 81 mL after 26 weeks of treatment and by 63 mL after 52 weeks of 
treatment. Compared with tiotropium, BDP/FF/G improved pre-dose FEV1 by 51 mL after 26 weeks 
of treatment and by 61 mL after 52 weeks of treatment. These improvements were statistically 
significant (p < 0.001). Compared with a fixed combination of indacaterol and glycopyrronium, 
BDP/FF/G improved average pre-dose FEV1 over the 52-week treatment period by 22 mL (p=0.018). 
Similar improvements, although not statistically significant, were observed at weeks 26 and 52.  
No differences were observed when comparing BDP/FF/G and the extemporary triple combination 
made of a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol plus tiotropium 
(difference of 3 mL in pre-dose FEV1 after 52 weeks of treatment). 
2-hour post-dose FEV1 
Compared with a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol, BDP/FF/G 
significantly improved 2-hour post dose FEV1 by 117 mL after 26 weeks of treatment and by 103 mL 
after 52 weeks of treatment (p < 0.001). This endpoint was only measured in the TRILOGY study. 
Inspiratory Capacity (IC) 
Compared with tiotropium, BDP/FF/G significantly improved IC by 39 mL (p = 0.025) and 60 mL 
(p = 0.001) after 26 and 52 weeks of treatment respectively. Similar effects were seen when comparing 
BDP/FF/G with the extemporary triple combination. This endpoint was only measured in the 
TRINITY study. 
Symptomatic outcomes 
BDP/FF/G significantly improved dyspnoea (measured as the Transition Dyspnoea Index – TDI – 
focal score) after 26 weeks of treatment compared with baseline (by 1.71 units; p < 0.001), but the 
adjusted mean difference versus a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol 
was not statistically significant (0.21 units; p = 0.160). A responder analysis showed that a 
significantly greater percentage of patients had a clinically significant improvement (focal score 
greater than or equal to 1) after 26 weeks with BDP/FF/G than with a fixed combination of 
beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol (57.4% versus 51.8%; p = 0.027). TDI was only measured 
in the TRILOGY study. 
BDP/FF/G was also statistically significantly superior to a fixed combination of beclometasone 
dipropionate and formoterol, to tiotropium and to a fixed combination of indacaterol and 
glycopyrronium in terms of improvement in quality of life (measured by the Saint George Respiratory 
Questionnaire – SGRQ – total score). No differences were observed when comparing BDP/FF/G and 
the extemporary triple combination made of fluticasone and vilanterol fixed combination plus 
tiotropium.  
A responder analysis showed that a significantly greater percentage of patients had a clinically 
significant improvement (reduction versus baseline of greater than or equal to 4) after 26 and 52 weeks 
with BDP/FF/G than with a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol and with 
tiotropium. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asthma 
The Phase III clinical development programme in asthma included two randomized, double-blind, 
active-controlled studies of 52 weeks duration, one performed with the medium ICS dose strength 
(BDP/FF/G 87/5/9; TRIMARAN) and another one with the high ICS dose strength (BDP/FF/G 
172/5/9; TRIGGER). 
Both studies were conducted in adult patients with a clinical diagnosis of asthma who were 
uncontrolled on dual maintenance treatment using a medium dose (TRIMARAN) or high dose 
(TRIGGER) ICS/LABA combination (ACQ-7 score ≥1.5). In order to be eligible, patients had to have 
experienced at least one asthma exacerbation requiring treatment with systemic corticosteroids or 
emergency department visit or in-patient hospitalisation in the previous year. 
The TRIMARAN study compared two twice-daily doses of BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 (N=579) with two 
twice-daily doses of a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) and formoterol (FF) 
100/6 micrograms (delivered dose of 84.6/5.0) (N=576). The TRIGGER study compared two twice-
daily doses of BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 (N=573) with two twice-daily doses of a fixed combination of BDP 
and FF 200/6 micrograms alone (delivered dose 177.7/5.1) (N=576) or on top of two once-daily doses 
of tiotropium 2.5 micrograms (N=288) as an open-label extemporary triple combination arm. 
The primary objective of the studies was to demonstrate superiority of either BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 or 
BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 (two inhalations twice daily) over the respective fixed dual combination product 
(medium or high dose ICS/LABA) in terms of the co-primary endpoints (change from baseline in pre-
dose FEV1 at Week 26 and the rate of moderate and severe exacerbation rate over 52 weeks). 
The TRIGGER study was not powered to evaluate the comparative efficacy of BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 vs. 
BDP/FF + tiotropium 2.5 micrograms. Descriptive results are included in Table 1. 
Median age of patients enrolled in the two pivotal studies was 54 years. Less than 20% of patients 
were aged 65 years or more and approximately 60% of patients were female. During the study, about 
16% (TRIMARAN) and 23% (TRIGGER) of patients used the AeroChamber Plus spacer. 
Reduction of asthma exacerbations 
In the TRIMARAN study, BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 significantly reduced the rate of moderate/severe 
exacerbations compared with the fixed combination of BDP/FF 100/6 micrograms (adjusted rate ratio 
0.846, 95%CI [0.725; 0.987]). 
In the TRIGGER study, BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 also reduced the rate of moderate/severe exacerbations 
more than the fixed combination of BDP/FF 200/6 micrograms but this effect did not achieve 
statistical significance (adjusted rate ratio 0.880, 95%CI [0.751;1.030], p=0.11). Due to the 
hierarchical testing, all TRIGGER efficacy endpoints and the pre-specified analysis of severe 
exacerbations (data pooled across TRIMARAN and TRIGGER studies) resulted in nominal p-values 
only (Table 1). 
Data of TRIMARAN and TRIGGER studies suggest that the time to first moderate/severe exacer-
bation (secondary endpoint) was prolonged in the triple combination arm when compared with the 
respective dual combination arm. 
Effects on lung function 
In both studies, BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 and BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 improved the lung function parameters of 
pre-dose FEV1 (co-primary endpoint), peak0-3h FEV1, and morning peak expiratory flow (key 
secondary endpoints), compared with a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and 
formoterol 100/6 micrograms and 200/6 micrograms, respectively, after 26 weeks of treatment. All 
improvements were statistically significant (see Table 1). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 - Results of primary and secondary endpoints 
Study 
TRIMARAN 
TRIGGER 
Comparison of interest 
N = randomised patients  
per treatment arm 
BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 
(N=579) 
vs 
BDP/FF1 84.6/5 
N=576) 
BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 
(N=573) 
vs 
BDP/FF1 177.7/5.1 
(N=576) 
BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 
(N=573) 
vs 
BDP/FF1 177.7/5.1 + 
tiotropium 2.52 
(N=288) 
Primary endpoints 
Pre-dose FEV1 after 26 weeks (co-primary endpoint) 
Treatment difference 
p-value 
+57 mL 
p = 0.008 
+73 mL 
p = 0.003* 
-45 mL 
p = 0.125* 
Moderate/severe exacerbations over 52 weeks (co-primary endpoint) 
Adjusted rate per 
patient/year 
Rate change 
p-value 
1.83 vs 2.16 
1.73 vs 1.96 
1.73 vs 1.63 
-15.4% 
p = 0.033 
-12.0% 
p = 0.110 (n.s.) 
+7.0% 
p = 0.502* 
Key secondary and secondary endpoints 
Peak0-3h FEV1 after 26 weeks (key secondary endpoint) 
Treatment difference 
p-value 
+84 mL 
p < 0.001 
+105 mL 
p < 0.001* 
-33 mL 
p = 0.271* 
Morning peak expiratory flow (PEF) over 26 weeks (key secondary endpoint) 
Treatment difference 
p-value 
+8 L/min 
p < 0.001 
Rate of severe exacerbations over 52 weeks, pooled analysis (key secondary endpoint) 
+8 L/min 
p = 0.001* 
-0.2 L/min 
p = 0.951* 
Adjusted rate per 
patient/year 
Rate change 
p-value 
0.24 vs 0.31 
-23.0% 
p = 0.008* 
Time to the first moderate/severe exacerbation over 52 weeks (secondary endpoint) 
0.84 
p = 0.022* 
Hazard ratio 
p-value 
0.80 
p = 0.003* 
n. a. 
1.03 
p = 0.777* 
Time to the first severe exacerbation over 52 weeks, pooled analysis (secondary endpoint) 
Hazard ratio 
p-value 
0.79 
p = 0.011* 
n.a. 
Co-primary endpoints (pre-dose FEV1 at Week 26 and the rate of moderate and severe exacerbation rate over 
52 weeks) and the key secondary endpoints (peak0-3h FEV1 at Week 26, morning PEF over 26 weeks and the 
rate of severe exacerbations [pooled analysis of TRIMARAN and TRIGGER] over 52 weeks) were part of 
the step-down, closed confirmatory testing strategy and thus controlled for multiplicity.  
Since the superiority test of one of the co-primary endpoints in the TRIGGER study did not achieve 
statistical significance, results for TRIGGER efficacy endpoints and the rate of severe exacerbations (pooled 
analysis) are nominal p-values and presented for descriptive purposes. 
Since the TRIGGER study was not powered to evaluate the comparative efficacy of BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 vs. 
BDP/FF 177.7/5.1 plus tiotropium 2.5, it is not clear whether the observed differences are real or a random 
result. 
n.a. 
n.s. 
1 
2 
* 
= not applicable 
= not statistically significant 
= fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) plus formoterol fumarate (FF) 
= open-label extemporaneous group 
= nominal p-values 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Trimbow in all subsets of the paediatric population in COPD. 
The safety and efficacy of Trimbow in children and adolescents with asthma under 18 years of age 
have not yet been established (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Trimbow – fixed combination 
The systemic exposure to beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol and glycopyrronium has been 
investigated in a pharmacokinetic study conducted in healthy subjects. The study compared data 
obtained after treatment with a single dose of Trimbow (4 inhalations of 100/6/25 micrograms, a 
non-marketed formulation containing twice the approved strength of glycopyrronium) or a single dose 
of the extemporary combination of beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol (4 inhalations of 
100/6 micrograms) plus glycopyrronium (4 inhalations of 25 micrograms). The maximum plasma 
concentration and systemic exposure of beclometasone dipropionate main active metabolite 
(beclometasone 17-monopropionate) and formoterol were similar after administration of the fixed or 
extemporary combination. For glycopyrronium, the maximum plasma concentration was similar after 
administration of the fixed or extemporary combination, while the systemic exposure was slightly 
higher after administration of Trimbow than with the extemporary combination. This study also 
investigated the potential pharmacokinetic interaction between the active components of Trimbow by 
comparing the pharmacokinetic data obtained after a single dose of the extemporary combination or 
after a single dose of the single components beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol or 
glycopyrronium. There was no clear evidence of pharmacokinetic interaction, however the 
extemporary combination showed formoterol and glycopyrronium levels transiently slightly higher 
immediately after dosing compared with the single components. It is noted that single component 
glycopyrronium, formulated as pressurised metered dose inhaler, which was used in the PK studies, is 
not available on the market.  
The dose proportionality of systemic and lung exposure to beclometasone dipropionate has been 
investigated in a pharmacokinetic study conducted in healthy subjects with non-marketed Trimbow 
formulations, containing twice the approved strength of glycopyrronium (given as metered dose). The 
study compared data obtained after treatment with a single dose (4 inhalations) of Trimbow 
200/6/25 micrograms or a single dose (4 inhalations) of Trimbow 100/6/25 micrograms (both are non-
marketed formulations containing twice the approved strength of glycopyrronium). Trimbow 
200/6/25 micrograms treatment resulted in a two times higher systemic and lung exposure to 
beclometasone dipropionate and to its main active metabolite (beclometasone 17-monopropionate) in 
comparison to Trimbow 100/6/25 micrograms, which is consistent with the different strengths of the 
two formulations. The systemic and lung exposure to glycopyrronium and formoterol was similar after 
the two treatments, although a high variability was observed for glycopyrronium bromide Cmax.  
A comparison across studies showed that the pharmacokinetics of beclometasone 17-monopropionate, 
formoterol and glycopyrronium is similar in COPD patients, in patients with asthma and in healthy 
subjects. 
Effect of a spacer 
In patients with COPD, the use of Trimbow with the AeroChamber Plus spacer increased the lung 
delivery of beclometasone 17-monopropionate, formoterol and glycopyrronium (maximum plasma 
concentration increased by 15%, 58% and 60% respectively). The total systemic exposure (as 
measured by AUC0-t) was slightly reduced for beclometasone 17-monopropionate (by 37%) and 
formoterol (by 24%), while it was increased for glycopyrronium (by 45%). See also section 4.2. 
Effect of renal impairment 
Systemic exposure (AUC0-t) to beclometasone dipropionate, to its metabolite beclometasone 
17-monopropionate and to formoterol was not affected by mild to severe renal impairment. For 
glycopyrronium, there was no impact in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment. However, 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an increase in total systemic exposure of up to 2.5-fold was observed in subjects with severe renal 
impairment (glomerular filtration rate below 30 mL/min/1.73 m2), as a consequence of a significant 
reduction of the amount excreted in urine (approximately 90% reduction of glycopyrronium renal 
clearance). Simulations performed with a pharmacokinetic model showed that even when covariates 
had extreme values (body weight less than 40 kg and concomitant glomerular filtration rate below 
27 mL/min/1.73 m²), exposure to Trimbow active substances remains in approximately a 2.5-fold 
range compared to the exposure in a typical patient with median covariate values. 
Beclometasone dipropionate 
Beclometasone dipropionate is a pro-drug with weak glucocorticoid receptor binding affinity that is 
hydrolysed via esterase enzymes to an active metabolite beclometasone 17-monopropionate which has 
a more potent topical anti-inflammatory activity compared with the pro-drug beclometasone 
dipropionate. 
Absorption, distribution and biotransformation 
Inhaled beclometasone dipropionate is rapidly absorbed through the lungs; prior to absorption there is 
extensive conversion to beclometasone 17-monopropionate via esterase enzymes that are found in 
most tissues. The systemic availability of the active metabolite arises from lung (36%) and from 
gastrointestinal absorption of the swallowed dose. The bioavailability of swallowed beclometasone 
dipropionate is negligible; however, pre-systemic conversion to beclometasone 17-monopropionate 
results in 41% of the dose being absorbed as the active metabolite. There is an approximately linear 
increase in systemic exposure with increasing inhaled dose. The absolute bioavailability following 
inhalation is approximately 2% and 62% of the nominal dose for unchanged beclometasone 
dipropionate and beclometasone 17-monopropionate respectively. Following intravenous dosing, the 
disposition of beclometasone dipropionate and its active metabolite is characterised by high plasma 
clearance (150 and 120 L/h respectively), with a small volume of distribution at steady state for 
beclometasone dipropionate (20 L) and larger tissue distribution for its active metabolite (424 L). 
Plasma protein binding is moderately high. 
Elimination 
Faecal excretion is the major route of beclometasone dipropionate elimination mainly as polar 
metabolites. The renal excretion of beclometasone dipropionate and its metabolites is negligible. The 
terminal elimination half-lives are 0.5 hours and 2.7 hours for beclometasone dipropionate and 
beclometasone 17-monopropionate respectively. 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of beclometasone dipropionate in patients with hepatic impairment has not been 
studied, however, as beclometasone dipropionate undergoes a very rapid metabolism via esterase 
enzymes present in intestinal fluid, serum, lungs and liver to form the more polar products 
beclometasone 21-monopropionate, beclometasone 17-monopropionate and beclometasone, hepatic 
impairment is not expected to modify the pharmacokinetics and safety profile of beclometasone 
dipropionate. 
Formoterol 
Absorption and distribution 
Following inhalation, formoterol is absorbed from both the lung and the gastrointestinal tract. The 
fraction of an inhaled dose that is swallowed after administration with a metered dose inhaler may 
range between 60% and 90%. At least 65% of the fraction that is swallowed is absorbed from the 
gastrointestinal tract. Peak plasma concentrations of the unchanged active substance occur within 0.5 
to 1 hours after oral administration. Plasma protein binding of formoterol is 61-64% with 34% bound 
to albumin. There was no saturation of binding in the concentration range attained with therapeutic 
doses. The elimination half-life determined after oral administration is 2-3 hours. Absorption of 
formoterol is linear following inhalation of 12 to 96 micrograms of formoterol. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Formoterol is widely metabolised and the prominent pathway involves direct conjugation at the 
phenolic hydroxyl group. Glucuronide acid conjugate is inactive. The second major pathway involves 
O-demethylation followed by conjugation at the phenolic 2'-hydroxyl group. Cytochrome P450 
isoenzymes CYP2D6, CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 are involved in the O-demethylation of formoterol. 
Liver appears to be the primary site of metabolism. Formoterol does not inhibit CYP450 enzymes at 
therapeutically relevant concentrations. 
Elimination 
The cumulative urinary excretion of formoterol after single inhalation from a dry powder inhaler 
increased linearly in the 12-96 micrograms dose range. On average, 8% and 25% of the dose was 
excreted as unchanged and total formoterol, respectively. Based on plasma concentrations measured 
following inhalation of a single 120 micrograms dose by 12 healthy subjects, the mean terminal 
elimination half-life was determined to be 10 hours. The (R,R)- and (S,S)-enantiomers represented 
about 40% and 60% of unchanged active substance excreted in the urine, respectively. The relative 
proportion of the two enantiomers remained constant over the dose range studied and there was no 
evidence of relative accumulation of one enantiomer over the other after repeated dosing. After oral 
administration (40 to 80 micrograms), 6% to 10% of the dose was recovered in urine as unchanged 
active substance in healthy subjects; up to 8% of the dose was recovered as the glucuronide. A total 
67% of an oral dose of formoterol is excreted in urine (mainly as metabolites) and the remainder in the 
faeces. The renal clearance of formoterol is 150 mL/min. 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of formoterol has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment; 
however, as formoterol is primarily eliminated via hepatic metabolism, an increased exposure can be 
expected in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Glycopyrronium  
Absorption and distribution 
Glycopyrronium has a quaternary ammonium structure which limits its passage across biological 
membranes and produces slow, variable and incomplete gastrointestinal absorption. Following 
glycopyrronium inhalation, the lung bioavailability was 10.5% (with activated charcoal ingestion) 
while the absolute bioavailability was 12.8% (without activated charcoal ingestion) confirming the 
limited gastrointestinal absorption and indicating that more than 80% of glycopyrronium systemic 
exposure was from lung absorption. After repeated inhalation of twice daily doses ranging from 12.5 
to 50 micrograms via pressurised metered dose inhaler in COPD patients, glycopyrronium showed 
linear pharmacokinetics with little systemic accumulation at steady state (median accumulation ratio 
2.2-2.5).  
The apparent volume of distribution (Vz) of inhaled glycopyrronium was increased compared to 
intravenous infusion (6,420 L versus 323 L), reflecting the slower elimination after inhalation.  
Biotransformation 
The metabolic pattern of glycopyrronium in vitro (humans, dogs, rats, mice and rabbits liver 
microsomes and hepatocytes) was similar among species and the main metabolic reaction was the 
hydroxylation on the phenyl or ciclopentyl rings. CYP2D6 was found to be the only enzyme 
responsible for glycopyrronium metabolism. 
Elimination 
The mean elimination half-life of glycopyrronium in healthy volunteers was approximately 6 hours 
after intravenous injection while after inhalation in COPD patients it ranged from 5 to 12 hours at 
steady state. After a glycopyrronium single intravenous injection, 40% of the dose was excreted in the 
urine within 24 hours. In COPD patients receiving repeated twice daily administration of inhaled 
glycopyrronium, the fraction of the dose excreted in urine ranged from 13.0% to 14.5% at steady state. 
Mean renal clearance was similar across the range of doses tested and after single and repeated 
inhalation (range 281-396 mL/min). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Safety pharmacology  
In an inhalation study in telemetered dogs, the cardiovascular system was a major target system for 
acute effects of Trimbow (increase in heart rate, decrease in blood pressure, ECG changes at higher 
doses), effects probably mainly related to the beta2-adrenergic activity of formoterol and the 
anti-muscarinic activity of glycopyrronium. There was no evidence for over-additive effects of the 
triple combination when compared with the single components. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
In repeated dose inhalation studies with Trimbow in rats and dogs of up to 13 weeks duration, the 
main observed alterations were related to effects on the immune system (probably due to systemic 
corticosteroid effects of beclometasone dipropionate and its active metabolite beclometasone-
17-monopropionate) and on the cardiovascular system (probably related to the beta2-adrenergic 
activity of formoterol and the anti-muscarinic activity of glycopyrronium). The toxicological profile of 
the triple combination reflected that of the single active components without a relevant increase in 
toxicity and without unexpected findings. 
Toxicity to reproduction and development 
Beclometasone dipropionate/beclometasone-17-monopropionate was considered responsible for 
reproductive toxicity effects in rats such as reduction of the conception rate, fertility index, early 
embryonic development parameters (implantation loss), delay in ossification and increased incidence 
of visceral variations; while tocolytic and anti-muscarinic effects, attributed to the beta2-adrenergic 
activity of formoterol and the anti-muscarinic activity of glycopyrronium, affected pregnant rats in the 
late phase of gestation and/or early phase of lactation, leading to loss of pups. 
Genotoxicity 
Genotoxicity of Trimbow has not been evaluated, however, the single active components were devoid 
of genotoxic activity in the conventional test systems. 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with Trimbow. However, in a 104-week rat 
inhalation carcinogenicity study and an oral 26-week carcinogenicity study in transgenic Tg-rasH2 
mice, glycopyrronium bromide showed no carcinogenic potential and published data concerning long-
term studies conducted with beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol fumarate in rats do not 
indicate a clinically relevant carcinogenic potential. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Ethanol anhydrous 
Hydrochloric acid 
Norflurane (propellant) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
60 actuation pressurised container 
21 months. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 2 months at 25°C. 
After dispensing, the medicinal product may be stored for a maximum of 2 months at a temperature up 
to 25°C. 
120 (from a single or multipack) and 180 actuation pressurised container 
22 months. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 4 months at 25°C. 
After dispensing, the medicinal product may be stored for a maximum of 4 months at a temperature up 
to 25°C.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C. 
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
Prior to dispensing 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
For in-use storage conditions, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Pressurised container (coated aluminium), with a metering valve. The pressurised container is inserted 
in a polypropylene inhaler which incorporates a mouthpiece and a dose counter (60 actuations or 
120 actuations per pressurised container) or dose indicator (180 actuations per pressurised container) 
and is provided with a polypropylene mouthpiece cap. 
Pack sizes: 
Pack of 1 container with either 60, 120 or 180 actuations. 
Multipack containing 240 actuations (2 containers of 120 actuations each). 
Multipack containing 360 actuations (3 containers of 120 actuations each). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
For pharmacists: 
Enter the date of dispensing to the patient on the pack. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/001 
EU/1/17/1208/002 
EU/1/17/1208/003 
EU/1/17/1208/004 
EU/1/17/1208/005 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 17 July 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Trimbow 172 micrograms/5 micrograms/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each delivered dose (the dose leaving the mouthpiece) contains 172 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 5 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium (as 
11 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide). 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 200 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium 
(as 12.5 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide). 
Excipient with known effect: 
Trimbow contains 8.856 mg ethanol per actuation. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Pressurised inhalation, solution (pressurised inhalation) 
Colourless to yellowish liquid solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Maintenance treatment of asthma, in adults not adequately controlled with a maintenance combination 
of a long-acting beta2-agonist and high dose of inhaled corticosteroid, and who experienced one or 
more asthma exacerbations in the previous year. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is two inhalations twice daily. 
The maximum dose is two inhalations twice daily. 
Patients should be advised to take Trimbow every day even when asymptomatic.  
If symptoms arise in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist should be used 
for immediate relief. 
When choosing the starting dose strength of Trimbow (87/5/9 micrograms or 172/5/9 micrograms), the 
patients’ disease severity, their previous asthma therapy including the inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) 
dose as well as the patients’ current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbation 
should be considered. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stepping-down treatment 
Patients should be regularly reassessed by a doctor, so that their doses of 
beclometasone/formoterol/glycopyrronium remain optimal and are only changed on medical advice. 
The doses should be titrated to the lowest doses at which effective control of asthma symptoms is 
maintained.  
There are no data on the effect of stepping-down from the high strength (Trimbow 
172/5/9 micrograms) to the medium strength beclometasone dipropionate medicinal product (Trimbow 
87/5/9 micrograms). 
Special populations 
Elderly  
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients (65 years of age and older). 
Renal impairment 
Trimbow can be used at the recommended dose in patients with mild (glomerular filtration rate [GFR] 
≥50 to <80 mL/min/1.73 m2) to moderate (GFR ≥30 to <50 mL/min/1.73 m2) renal impairment. Use in 
patients with severe (GFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m2) renal impairment or end-stage renal (GFR 
<15 mL/min/1.73 m2) disease requiring dialysis, especially if associated with significant body weight 
reduction, should be considered only if the expected benefit outweighs the potential risk (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
There are no relevant data on the use of Trimbow in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(classified as having Child-Pugh class C) and the medicinal product should be used with caution in 
these patients (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Trimbow in the paediatric population (under 18 years of age) have not yet 
been established. No data are available.  
Method of administration 
For inhalation use. 
To ensure proper administration of the medicinal product, the patient should be shown how to use the 
inhaler correctly by a physician or other healthcare professional, who should also regularly check the 
adequacy of the patient’s inhalation technique (see “Instructions for use” below). The patient should 
be advised to read the Package Leaflet carefully and follow the instructions for use as given in the 
leaflet.  
This medicinal product is provided with a dose counter on the back of the inhaler, which shows how 
many actuations are left. Each time the patient presses the container a puff of the solution is released 
and the counter counts down by one. 
The patient should be advised not to drop the inhaler as this may cause the counter to count down. 
Instructions for use 
Priming the inhaler 
Before using the inhaler for the first time, the patient should release one actuation into the air in order 
to ensure that the inhaler is working properly (priming). Before priming the 60 or 120 actuation 
pressurised containers, the counter should read 61 or 121, respectively. After priming, the counter 
should read 60 or 120. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of the inhaler 
The patient should stand or sit in an upright position when inhaling from the inhaler. The steps below 
should be followed. 
IMPORTANT: steps 2 to 5 should not be performed too quickly: 
1. 
The patients should remove the protective cap from the mouthpiece and check that the 
mouthpiece is clean and free from dust and dirt or any other foreign objects. 
The patient should breathe out slowly and as deeply as comfortable, in order to empty the lungs. 
The patient should hold the inhaler vertically with its body upwards and place the mouthpiece 
between the teeth without biting. The lips should then be placed around the mouthpiece, with 
the tongue flat under it.  
At the same time, the patient should breathe in slowly and deeply through the mouth until the 
lungs are full of air (this should take approximately 4 – 5 seconds). Immediately after starting to 
breathe in, the patient should firmly press down on the top of the pressurised container to 
release one puff. 
The patient should then hold the breath for as long as comfortably possible, then remove the 
inhaler from the mouth and breathe out slowly. The patients should not breathe out into the 
inhaler. 
The patient should then check the dose counter to ensure it has moved accordingly. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
To inhale the second puff, the patient should keep the inhaler in a vertical position for approximately 
30 seconds and repeat steps 2 to 6. 
If mist appears after the inhalation, either from the inhaler or from the sides of the mouth, the 
procedure should be repeated from step 2. 
After use, the patient should close the inhaler with the protective mouthpiece cap and check the dose 
counter. 
After inhaling, the patient should rinse the mouth or gargle with water without swallowing it or brush 
the teeth (see also section 4.4). 
When to get a new inhaler 
The patient should be advised to get a new inhaler when the dose counter shows the number 20. 
He/she should stop using the inhaler when the counter shows 0 as any puffs left in the device may not 
be enough to release a full actuation. 
Additional instructions for specific groups of patients 
For patients with weak hands it may be easier to hold the inhaler with both hands. Therefore, the index 
fingers should be placed on the top of the pressurised container and both thumbs on the base of the 
inhaler.  
Patients who find it difficult to synchronise aerosol actuation with inspiration of breath may use the 
AeroChamber Plus spacer device, properly cleaned as described in the relevant leaflet. They should be 
advised by their doctor or pharmacist about the proper use and care of their inhaler and spacer and 
their technique checked to ensure optimum delivery of the inhaled active substance to the lungs. This 
may be obtained by the patients using the AeroChamber Plus by one continuous slow and deep breath 
through the spacer, without any delay between actuation and inhalation. Alternatively, patients may 
simply breathe in and out (through the mouth) after the actuation, as instructed in the spacer leaflet, to 
obtain the medicinal product (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Cleaning 
For the regular cleaning of the inhaler, patients should remove weekly the cap from the mouthpiece 
and wipe the outside and inside of the mouthpiece with a dry cloth. They should not remove the 
pressurised container from the actuator and should not use water or other liquids to clean the 
mouthpiece. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Not for acute use 
This medicinal product is not indicated for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm, or to treat 
an acute disease exacerbation (i.e. as a rescue therapy). 
Hypersensitivity 
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported after administration. If signs suggesting 
allergic reactions occur, in particular, angioedema (including difficulties in breathing or swallowing, 
swelling of the tongue, lips and face), urticaria or skin rash, treatment should be discontinued 
immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 
Paradoxical bronchospasm 
Paradoxical bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing and shortness of breath 
after dosing. This should be treated immediately with a fast-acting inhaled bronchodilator (reliever). 
Treatment should be discontinued immediately, the patient assessed and alternative therapy instituted 
if necessary. 
Deterioration of disease 
It is recommended that treatment should not be stopped abruptly. If patients find the treatment 
ineffective, they should continue treatment but medical attention must be sought. Increasing use of 
reliever bronchodilators indicates a worsening of the underlying condition and warrants a reassessment 
of the therapy. Sudden or progressive deterioration in symptoms is potentially life-threatening and the 
patient should undergo urgent medical assessment. 
Cardiovascular effects 
Due to the presence of a long-acting beta2-agonist and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist, Trimbow 
should be used with caution in patients with cardiac arrhythmias, especially third degree 
atrioventricular block and tachyarrhythmias (accelerated and/or irregular heartbeat, including atrial 
fibrillation), idiopathic subvalvular aortic stenosis, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, severe 
heart disease (particularly acute myocardial infarction, ischaemic heart disease, congestive heart 
failure), occlusive vascular diseases (particularly arteriosclerosis), arterial hypertension and aneurysm. 
Caution should also be exercised when treating patients with known or suspected prolongation of the 
QTc interval (QTc > 450 milliseconds for males, or > 470 milliseconds for females), either congenital 
or induced by medicinal products. Patients diagnosed with the described cardiovascular conditions 
were excluded from clinical studies with Trimbow. Limited data in asthmatic patients with 
cardiovascular co-morbidities or risk-factors suggest that these patients are also at higher risk of 
adverse reactions like local fungal infections or dysphonia (see section 4.8). 
If anaesthesia with halogenated anaesthetics is planned, it should be ensured that Trimbow is not 
administered for at least 12 hours before the start of anaesthesia as there is a risk of cardiac 
arrhythmias. 
Caution is also required when treating patients with thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, 
pheochromocytoma and untreated hypokalaemia. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Systemic corticosteroid effects 
Systemic effects may occur with any inhaled corticosteroid, particularly at high doses prescribed for 
long periods. The daily dose of Trimbow corresponds to a high dose of inhaled corticosteroid; 
furthermore, these effects are much less likely to occur than with oral corticosteroids. Possible 
systemic effects include: Cushing's syndrome, Cushingoid features, adrenal suppression, growth 
retardation, decrease in bone mineral density and, more rarely, a range of psychological or behavioural 
effects including psychomotor hyperactivity, sleep disorders, anxiety, depression or aggression 
(particularly in children). Therefore, it is important that the patient is reviewed regularly, and the dose 
of inhaled corticosteroid is reduced to the lowest dose at which effective control of asthma is 
maintained (see section 4.2). 
Trimbow should be administered with caution in patients with active or quiescent pulmonary 
tuberculosis and in patients with fungal and viral infections in the airways. 
Hypokalaemia 
Potentially serious hypokalaemia may result from beta2-agonist therapy. This has the potential to 
produce adverse cardiovascular effects. Particular caution is advised in patients with severe disease as 
this effect may be potentiated by hypoxia. Hypokalaemia may also be potentiated by concomitant 
treatment with other medicinal products which can induce hypokalaemia, such as xanthine derivatives, 
steroids and diuretics (see section 4.5). 
Caution is also recommended when a number of reliever bronchodilators are used. It is recommended 
that serum potassium levels are monitored in such situations. 
Hyperglycaemia 
The inhalation of formoterol may cause a rise in blood glucose levels. Therefore, blood glucose should 
be monitored during treatment following established guidelines in patients with diabetes. 
Anticholinergic effect 
Glycopyrronium should be used with caution in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma, prostatic 
hyperplasia or urinary retention. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of acute 
narrow-angle glaucoma and should be informed to stop treatment and to contact their doctor 
immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop. 
Additionally, due to the anticholinergic effect of glycopyrronium, the long-term co-administration 
with other anticholinergic-containing medicinal products is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
In patients with severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease requiring 
dialysis, especially if associated with a significant body weight reduction, Trimbow should be used 
only if the expected benefit outweighs the potential risk (see section 5.2). These patients should be 
monitored for potential adverse reactions. 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment 
In patients with severe hepatic impairment, Trimbow should be used only if the expected benefit 
outweighs the potential risk (see section 5.2). These patients should be monitored for potential adverse 
reactions. 
Prevention of oropharyngeal infections 
In order to reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candida infection, patients should be advised to rinse their 
mouth or gargle with water without swallowing it or brush their teeth after inhaling the prescribed 
dose. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Visual disturbance 
Visual disturbance may be reported with systemic and topical corticosteroid use. If a patient presents 
with symptoms such as blurred vision or other visual disturbances, the patient should be considered for 
referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation of possible causes which may include cataract, glaucoma 
or rare diseases such as central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR) which have been reported after use 
of systemic and topical corticosteroids.  
Stepping-down treatment 
Patients should be regularly reassessed by a doctor, so that their doses of 
beclometasone/formoterol/glycopyrronium remain optimal and are only changed on medical advice. 
The doses should be titrated to the lowest doses at which effective control of asthma symptoms is 
maintained. 
There are no data on the effect of stepping-down from the high strength (Trimbow 
172/5/9 micrograms) to the medium strength beclometasone dipropionate medicinal product (Trimbow 
87/5/9 micrograms) (see section 4.2). 
Ethanol contents 
This medicinal product contains 8.856 mg of ethanol per actuation, which is equivalent to 17.712 mg 
per dose of two actuations. There is a theoretical potential for interaction in particularly sensitive 
patients taking disulfiram or metronidazole. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Since glycopyrronium is eliminated mainly by the renal route, interaction could potentially occur with 
medicinal products affecting renal excretion mechanisms (see section 5.2). The effect of organic 
cation transport inhibition (using cimetidine as a probe inhibitor of OCT2 and MATE1 transporters) in 
the kidneys on inhaled glycopyrronium disposition showed a limited increase in its total systemic 
exposure (AUC0-t) by 16% and a slight decrease in renal clearance by 20% due to co administration of 
cimetidine. 
Beclometasone is less dependent on CYP3A metabolism than some other corticosteroids, and in 
general interactions are unlikely; however, the possibility of systemic effects with concomitant use of 
strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, cobicistat) cannot be excluded, and therefore caution and 
appropriate monitoring is advised with the use of such medicinal products. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Related to formoterol 
Non-cardioselective beta-blockers (including eye drops) should be avoided in patients taking inhaled 
formoterol. If they are administered for compelling reasons, the effect of formoterol will be reduced or 
abolished.  
Concomitant use of other beta-adrenergic medicinal products can have potentially additive effects; 
therefore, caution is required when other beta-adrenergic medicinal products are prescribed 
concomitantly with formoterol. 
Concomitant treatment with quinidine, disopyramide, procainamide, antihistamines, monoamine 
oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants and phenothiazines can prolong the QT interval and 
increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmias. In addition, L-dopa, L-thyroxine, oxytocin and alcohol 
can impair cardiac tolerance towards beta2-sympathomimetics. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, including medicinal products with similar 
properties such as furazolidone and procarbazine, may precipitate hypertensive reactions. 
There is an elevated risk of arrhythmias in patients receiving concomitant anaesthesia with 
halogenated hydrocarbons. 
Concomitant treatment with xanthine derivatives, steroids, or diuretics may potentiate a possible 
hypokalaemic effect of beta2-agonists (see section 4.4). Hypokalaemia may increase the disposition 
towards arrhythmias in patients who are treated with digitalis glycosides. 
Related to glycopyrronium 
The long-term co-administration of Trimbow with other anticholinergic-containing medicinal products 
has not been studied and is therefore not recommended (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
There is no experience with or evidence of safety issues on the use of the propellant norflurane 
(HFA134a) during human pregnancy or lactation. However, studies on the effect of HFA134a on the 
reproductive function and embryofoetal development in animals revealed no clinically relevant 
adverse effects. 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of Trimbow in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Glucocorticoids are known to 
cause effects in the early gestation phase, while beta2-sympathomimetics like formoterol have 
tocolytic effects. Therefore, as a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of Trimbow 
during pregnancy and during labour. 
Trimbow should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefit to the patient outweighs the 
potential risk to the foetus. Infants and neonates born to mothers receiving substantial doses should be 
observed for adrenal suppression. 
If treatment during pregnancy is necessary, the lowest effective dose should be used (see section 4.2). 
Breast-feeding 
There are no relevant clinical data on the use of Trimbow during breast-feeding in humans.  
Glucocorticoids are excreted in human milk. It is reasonable to assume that beclometasone 
dipropionate and its metabolites are also excreted in human milk. 
It is unknown whether formoterol or glycopyrronium (including their metabolites) are excreted in 
human milk but they have been detected in the milk of lactating animals. Anticholinergics like 
glycopyrronium could suppress lactation. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
Trimbow therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
No specific studies have been performed with Trimbow with regard to the safety in human fertility. 
Animal studies have shown impairment of fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Trimbow has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions in patients with COPD or asthma are respectively: 
dysphonia (0.3% and 1.5%) and oral candidiasis (0.8% and 0.3%), which are normally associated with 
inhaled corticosteroids; muscle spasms (0.4% and 0.2%), which can be attributed to the long-acting 
beta2-agonist component; and dry mouth (0.4% and 0.5%), which is a typical anticholinergic effect. 
In asthmatic patients, adverse reactions tend to cluster during the first 3 months following initiation of 
therapy and become less frequent with longer-term use (after 6 months of treatment). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions associated to beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol/glycopyrronium occurred 
during clinical studies and post-marketing experience as well as adverse reactions listed for the 
marketed individual components are provided below, listed by system organ class and frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 
to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated 
from available data). 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Adverse reaction 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Pneumonia (in COPD patients), pharyngitis, oral 
candidiasis, urinary tract infection1, nasopharyngitis1 
Influenza1, oral fungal infection, oropharyngeal 
candidiasis, oesophageal candidiasis, fungal 
(oro)pharyngitis, sinusitis1, rhinitis1, gastroenteritis1, 
vulvovaginal candidiasis1 
Lower respiratory tract infection (fungal) 
Granulocytopenia1 
Thrombocytopenia1 
Dermatitis allergic1 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including erythema, lips, face, 
eye and pharyngeal oedema 
Adrenal suppression1 
Hypokalaemia, hyperglycaemia 
Decreased appetite 
Restlessness1 
Psychomotor hyperactivity1, sleep disorders1, anxiety, 
depression1, aggression1, behavioural changes 
(predominantly in children) 1 
Insomnia 
Headache 
Tremor, dizziness, dysgeusia1, hypoaesthesia1 
Hypersomnia 
Vision, blurred1 (see also section 4.4) 
Glaucoma1, cataract1 
Otosalpingitis1 
Atrial fibrillation, electrocardiogram QT prolonged, 
tachycardia, tachyarrhythmia1, palpitations 
Angina pectoris (stable1 and unstable), extrasystoles 
(ventricular1 and supraventricular), nodal rhythm, sinus 
bradycardia 
29 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Frequency not 
known 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Frequency not 
known 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Rare 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Adverse reaction 
Hyperaemia1, flushing1, hypertension 
Extravasation blood  
Dysphonia 
Asthmatic crisis1, cough, productive cough1, throat 
irritation, epistaxis1, pharyngeal erythema 
Bronchospasm paradoxical1, exacerbation of asthma, 
oropharyngeal pain, pharyngeal inflammation, dry throat 
Dyspnoea1 
Diarrhoea1, dry mouth, dysphagia1, nausea, dyspepsia1, 
burning sensation of the lips1, dental caries1, (aphthous) 
stomatitis 
Rash1, urticaria, pruritus, hyperhidrosis1 
Angioedema1 
Muscle spasms, myalgia, pain in extremity1, 
musculoskeletal chest pain1 
Growth retardation1 
Dysuria, urinary retention, nephritis1 
Fatigue1  
Asthenia 
Oedema peripheral1 
C-reactive protein increased1, platelet count increased1, 
free fatty acids increased1, blood insulin increased1, blood 
ketone body increased1, cortisol decreased1 
Blood pressure increased1, blood pressure decreased1 
Bone density decreased1 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
1 Adverse reactions reported in the SmPC of at least one of the individual components, but not observed as 
adverse reactions in the clinical development of Trimbow  
Among the observed adverse reactions the following are typically associated with: 
Beclometasone dipropionate 
Pneumonia, oral fungal infections, lower respiratory tract infection fungal, dysphonia, throat irritation, 
hyperglycaemia, psychiatric disorders, cortisol decreased, blurred vision. 
Formoterol 
Hypokalaemia, hyperglycaemia, tremor, palpitations, muscle spasms, electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged, blood pressure increased, blood pressure decreased, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, 
tachyarrhythmia, angina pectoris (stable and unstable), ventricular extrasystoles, nodal rhythm. 
Glycopyrronium 
Glaucoma, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, palpitations, dry mouth, dental caries, dysuria, urinary 
retention, urinary tract infection.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
An overdose of Trimbow may produce signs and symptoms due to the individual component’s 
pharmacological actions, including those seen with overdose of other beta2-agonists or 
anticholinergics and consistent with the known inhaled corticosteroid class effects (see section 4.4). If 
overdose occurs, the patient’s symptoms should be treated supportively with appropriate monitoring as 
necessary. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Drugs for obstructive airway diseases, adrenergics in combination with 
anticholinergics incl. triple combinations with corticosteroids. ATC code: R03AL09. 
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic effects 
Trimbow contains beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol and glycopyrronium (BDP/FF/G) in a 
solution formulation resulting in an aerosol with extrafine particles with an average mass median 
aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of around 1.1 micrometres and co-deposition of the three 
components. The aerosol particles of Trimbow are on average much smaller than the particles 
delivered in non-extrafine formulations. For beclometasone dipropionate, this results in a more potent 
effect than formulations with a non-extrafine particle size distribution (100 micrograms of 
beclometasone dipropionate extrafine in Trimbow are equivalent to 250 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate in a non-extrafine formulation). 
Beclometasone dipropionate 
Beclometasone dipropionate given by inhalation at recommended doses has a glucocorticoid anti-
inflammatory action within the lungs. Glucocorticoids are widely used for the suppression of 
inflammation in chronic inflammatory diseases of the airways. Their action is mediated by the binding 
to glucocorticoid receptors in the cytoplasm resulting in the increased transcription of genes coding for 
anti-inflammatory proteins. 
Formoterol 
Formoterol is a selective beta2-adrenergic agonist that produces relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle 
in patients with reversible airways obstruction. The bronchodilating effect sets in rapidly, within 
1-3 minutes after inhalation, and has a duration of 12 hours after a single dose. 
Glycopyrronium 
Glycopyrronium is a high-affinity, long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (anticholinergic) used 
for inhalation as bronchodilator treatment. Glycopyrronium works by blocking the bronchoconstrictor 
action of acetylcholine on airway smooth muscle cells, thereby dilating the airways. Glycopyrronium 
bromide is a high affinity muscarinic receptor antagonist with a greater than 4-fold selectivity for the 
human M3 receptors over the human M2 receptor as it has been demonstrated. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The Phase III clinical development programme in asthma included two randomized, double-blind, 
active-controlled studies of 52 weeks duration, one performed with the medium ICS dose strength 
(BDP/FF/G 87/5/9; TRIMARAN) and another one with the high ICS dose strength (BDP/FF/G 
172/5/9; TRIGGER). 
Both studies were conducted in adult patients with a clinical diagnosis of asthma who were 
uncontrolled on dual maintenance treatment using a medium dose (TRIMARAN) or high dose 
(TRIGGER) ICS/LABA combination (ACQ-7 score ≥1.5). In order to be eligible, patients had to have 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
experienced at least one asthma exacerbation requiring treatment with systemic corticosteroids or 
emergency department visit or in-patient hospitalisation in the previous year. 
The TRIMARAN study compared two twice-daily doses of BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 (N=579) with two 
twice-daily doses of a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) and formoterol (FF) 
100/6 micrograms (delivered dose of 84.6/5.0) (N=576). The TRIGGER study compared two twice-
daily doses of BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 (N=573) with two twice-daily doses of a fixed combination of BDP 
and FF 200/6 micrograms alone (delivered dose 177.7/5.1) (N=576) or on top of two once-daily doses 
of tiotropium 2.5 micrograms (N=288) as an open-label extemporary triple combination arm. 
The primary objective of the studies was to demonstrate superiority of either BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 or 
BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 (two inhalations twice daily) over the respective fixed dual combination product 
(medium or high dose ICS/LABA) in terms of the co-primary endpoints (change from baseline in pre-
dose FEV1 at Week 26 and the rate of moderate and severe exacerbation rate over 52 weeks). 
The TRIGGER study was not powered to evaluate the comparative efficacy of BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 vs. 
BDP/FF + tiotropium 2.5 micrograms. Descriptive results are included in Table 1. 
Median age of patients enrolled in the two pivotal studies was 54 years. Less than 20% of patients 
were aged 65 years or more and approximately 60% of patients were female. During the study, about 
16% (TRIMARAN) and 23% (TRIGGER) of patients used the AeroChamber Plus spacer. 
Reduction of asthma exacerbations 
In the TRIMARAN study, BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 significantly reduced the rate of moderate/severe 
exacerbations compared with the fixed combination of BDP/FF 100/6 micrograms (adjusted rate ratio 
0.846, 95%CI [0.725; 0.987]). 
In the TRIGGER study, BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 also reduced the rate of moderate/severe exacerbations 
more than the fixed combination of BDP/FF 200/6 micrograms but this effect did not achieve 
statistical significance (adjusted rate ratio 0.880, 95%CI [0.751;1.030], p=0.11). Due to the 
hierarchical testing, all TRIGGER efficacy endpoints and the pre-specified analysis of severe 
exacerbations (data pooled across TRIMARAN and TRIGGER studies) resulted in nominal p-values 
only (Table 1). 
Data of TRIMARAN and TRIGGER studies suggest that the time to first moderate/severe exacer-
bation (secondary endpoint) was prolonged in the triple combination arm when compared with the 
respective dual combination arm. 
Effects on lung function 
In both studies, BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 and BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 improved the lung function parameters of 
pre-dose FEV1 (co-primary endpoint), peak0-3h FEV1, and morning peak expiratory flow (key 
secondary endpoints), compared with a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and 
formoterol 100/6 micrograms and 200/6 micrograms, respectively, after 26 weeks of treatment. All 
improvements were statistically significant (see Table 1). 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 - Results of primary and secondary endpoints 
Study 
TRIMARAN 
TRIGGER 
Comparison of interest 
N = randomised patients  
per treatment arm 
BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 
(N=579) 
vs 
BDP/FF1 84.6/5 
N=576) 
BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 
(N=573) 
vs 
BDP/FF1 177.7/5.1 
(N=576) 
BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 
(N=573) 
vs 
BDP/FF1 177.7/5.1 + 
tiotropium 2.52 
(N=288) 
Primary endpoints 
Pre-dose FEV1 after 26 weeks (co-primary endpoint) 
Treatment difference 
p-value 
+57 mL 
p = 0.008 
+73 mL 
p = 0.003* 
-45 mL 
p = 0.125* 
Moderate/severe exacerbations over 52 weeks (co-primary endpoint) 
Adjusted rate per 
patient/year 
Rate change 
p-value 
1.83 vs 2.16 
1.73 vs 1.96 
1.73 vs 1.63 
-15.4% 
p = 0.033 
-12.0% 
p = 0.110 (n.s.) 
+7.0% 
p = 0.502* 
Key secondary and secondary endpoints 
Peak0-3h FEV1 after 26 weeks (key secondary endpoint) 
Treatment difference 
p-value 
+84 mL 
p < 0.001 
+105 mL 
p < 0.001* 
-33 mL 
p = 0.271* 
Morning peak expiratory flow (PEF) over 26 weeks (key secondary endpoint) 
Treatment difference 
p-value 
+8 L/min 
p < 0.001 
Rate of severe exacerbations over 52 weeks, pooled analysis (key secondary endpoint) 
+8 L/min 
p = 0.001* 
-0.2 L/min 
p = 0.951* 
Adjusted rate per 
patient/year 
Rate change 
p-value 
0.24 vs 0.31 
-23.0% 
p = 0.008* 
Time to the first moderate/severe exacerbation over 52 weeks (secondary endpoint) 
0.84 
p = 0.022* 
Hazard ratio 
p-value 
0.80 
p = 0.003* 
n. a. 
1.03 
p = 0.777* 
Time to the first severe exacerbation over 52 weeks, pooled analysis (secondary endpoint) 
Hazard ratio 
p-value 
0.79 
p = 0.011* 
n.a. 
Co-primary endpoints (pre-dose FEV1 at Week 26 and the rate of moderate and severe exacerbation rate over 
52 weeks) and the key secondary endpoints (peak0-3h FEV1 at Week 26, morning PEF over 26 weeks and the 
rate of severe exacerbations [pooled analysis of TRIMARAN and TRIGGER] over 52 weeks) were part of 
the step-down, closed confirmatory testing strategy and thus controlled for multiplicity.  
Since the superiority test of one of the co-primary endpoints in the TRIGGER study did not achieve 
statistical significance, results for TRIGGER efficacy endpoints and the rate of severe exacerbations (pooled 
analysis) are nominal p-values and presented for descriptive purposes. 
Since the TRIGGER study was not powered to evaluate the comparative efficacy of BDP/FF/G 172/5/9 vs. 
BDP/FF 177.7/5.1 plus tiotropium 2.5, it is not clear whether the observed differences are real or a random 
result. 
n.a. 
n.s. 
1 
2 
* 
= not applicable 
= not statistically significant 
= fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) plus formoterol fumarate (FF) 
= open-label extemporaneous group 
= nominal p-values 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Trimbow in children and adolescents with asthma under 18 years of age 
have not yet been established (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Trimbow – fixed combination 
The systemic exposure to beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol and glycopyrronium has been 
investigated in a pharmacokinetic study conducted in healthy subjects. The study compared data 
obtained after treatment with a single dose of Trimbow (4 inhalations of 100/6/25 micrograms, a 
non-marketed formulation containing twice the approved strength of glycopyrronium) or a single dose 
of the extemporary combination of beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol (4 inhalations of 
100/6 micrograms) plus glycopyrronium (4 inhalations of 25 micrograms). The maximum plasma 
concentration and systemic exposure of beclometasone dipropionate main active metabolite 
(beclometasone 17-monopropionate) and formoterol were similar after administration of the fixed or 
extemporary combination. For glycopyrronium, the maximum plasma concentration was similar after 
administration of the fixed or extemporary combination, while the systemic exposure was slightly 
higher after administration of Trimbow than with the extemporary combination. This study also 
investigated the potential pharmacokinetic interaction between the active components of Trimbow by 
comparing the pharmacokinetic data obtained after a single dose of the extemporary combination or 
after a single dose of the single components beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol or 
glycopyrronium. There was no clear evidence of pharmacokinetic interaction, however the 
extemporary combination showed formoterol and glycopyrronium levels transiently slightly higher 
immediately after dosing compared with the single components. It is noted that single component 
glycopyrronium, formulated as pressurised metered dose inhaler, which was used in the PK studies, is 
not available on the market.  
The dose proportionality of systemic and lung exposure to beclometasone dipropionate has been 
investigated in a pharmacokinetic study conducted in healthy subjects with non-marketed Trimbow 
formulations, containing twice the approved strength of glycopyrronium (given as metered dose). The 
study compared data obtained after treatment with a single dose (4 inhalations) of Trimbow 
200/6/25 micrograms or a single dose (4 inhalations) of Trimbow 100/6/25 micrograms (both are non-
marketed formulations containing twice the approved strength of glycopyrronium). Trimbow 
200/6/25 micrograms treatment resulted in a two times higher systemic and lung exposure to 
beclometasone dipropionate and to its main active metabolite (beclometasone 17-monopropionate) in 
comparison to Trimbow 100/6/25 micrograms, which is consistent with the different strengths of the 
two formulations. The systemic and lung exposure to glycopyrronium and formoterol was similar after 
the two treatments, although a high variability was observed for glycopyrronium bromide Cmax.  
A comparison across studies showed that the pharmacokinetics of beclometasone 17-monopropionate, 
formoterol and glycopyrronium is similar in COPD patients, in patients with asthma and in healthy 
subjects. 
Effect of a spacer 
In patients with asthma, the use of Trimbow with the AeroChamber Plus spacer increased the lung 
delivery of beclometasone 17-monopropionate, formoterol and glycopyrronium (maximum plasma 
concentration increased by 7%, 23% and 34% respectively). The total systemic exposure (as measured 
by AUC0-t) was slightly reduced for beclometasone 17-monopropionate (by 34%) and formoterol (by 
30%), while it was increased for glycopyrronium (by 36%). See also section 4.2. 
Effect of renal impairment 
Systemic exposure (AUC0-t) to beclometasone dipropionate, to its metabolite beclometasone 
17-monopropionate and to formoterol was not affected by mild to severe renal impairment. For 
glycopyrronium, there was no impact in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment. However, 
an increase in total systemic exposure of up to 2.5-fold was observed in subjects with severe renal 
impairment (glomerular filtration rate below 30 mL/min/1.73 m2), as a consequence of a significant 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduction of the amount excreted in urine (approximately 90% reduction of glycopyrronium renal 
clearance). Simulations performed with a pharmacokinetic model showed that even when covariates 
had extreme values (body weight less than 40 kg and concomitant glomerular filtration rate below 
27 mL/min/1.73 m²), exposure to Trimbow active substances remains in approximately a 2.5-fold 
range compared to the exposure in a typical patient with median covariate values. 
Beclometasone dipropionate 
Beclometasone dipropionate is a pro-drug with weak glucocorticoid receptor binding affinity that is 
hydrolysed via esterase enzymes to an active metabolite beclometasone 17-monopropionate which has 
a more potent topical anti-inflammatory activity compared with the pro-drug beclometasone 
dipropionate. 
Absorption, distribution and biotransformation 
Inhaled beclometasone dipropionate is rapidly absorbed through the lungs; prior to absorption there is 
extensive conversion to beclometasone 17-monopropionate via esterase enzymes that are found in 
most tissues. The systemic availability of the active metabolite arises from lung (36%) and from 
gastrointestinal absorption of the swallowed dose. The bioavailability of swallowed beclometasone 
dipropionate is negligible; however, pre-systemic conversion to beclometasone 17-monopropionate 
results in 41% of the dose being absorbed as the active metabolite. There is an approximately linear 
increase in systemic exposure with increasing inhaled dose. The absolute bioavailability following 
inhalation is approximately 2% and 62% of the nominal dose for unchanged beclometasone 
dipropionate and beclometasone 17-monopropionate respectively. Following intravenous dosing, the 
disposition of beclometasone dipropionate and its active metabolite is characterised by high plasma 
clearance (150 and 120 L/h respectively), with a small volume of distribution at steady state for 
beclometasone dipropionate (20 L) and larger tissue distribution for its active metabolite (424 L). 
Plasma protein binding is moderately high. 
Elimination 
Faecal excretion is the major route of beclometasone dipropionate elimination mainly as polar 
metabolites. The renal excretion of beclometasone dipropionate and its metabolites is negligible. The 
terminal elimination half-lives are 0.5 hours and 2.7 hours for beclometasone dipropionate and 
beclometasone 17-monopropionate respectively. 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of beclometasone dipropionate in patients with hepatic impairment has not been 
studied, however, as beclometasone dipropionate undergoes a very rapid metabolism via esterase 
enzymes present in intestinal fluid, serum, lungs and liver to form the more polar products 
beclometasone 21-monopropionate, beclometasone 17-monopropionate and beclometasone, hepatic 
impairment is not expected to modify the pharmacokinetics and safety profile of beclometasone 
dipropionate. 
Formoterol 
Absorption and distribution 
Following inhalation, formoterol is absorbed from both the lung and the gastrointestinal tract. The 
fraction of an inhaled dose that is swallowed after administration with a metered dose inhaler may 
range between 60% and 90%. At least 65% of the fraction that is swallowed is absorbed from the 
gastrointestinal tract. Peak plasma concentrations of the unchanged active substance occur within 0.5 
to 1 hours after oral administration. Plasma protein binding of formoterol is 61-64% with 34% bound 
to albumin. There was no saturation of binding in the concentration range attained with therapeutic 
doses. The elimination half-life determined after oral administration is 2-3 hours. Absorption of 
formoterol is linear following inhalation of 12 to 96 micrograms of formoterol. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Formoterol is widely metabolised and the prominent pathway involves direct conjugation at the 
phenolic hydroxyl group. Glucuronide acid conjugate is inactive. The second major pathway involves 
O-demethylation followed by conjugation at the phenolic 2'-hydroxyl group. Cytochrome P450 
isoenzymes CYP2D6, CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 are involved in the O-demethylation of formoterol. 
Liver appears to be the primary site of metabolism. Formoterol does not inhibit CYP450 enzymes at 
therapeutically relevant concentrations. 
Elimination 
The cumulative urinary excretion of formoterol after single inhalation from a dry powder inhaler 
increased linearly in the 12-96 micrograms dose range. On average, 8% and 25% of the dose was 
excreted as unchanged and total formoterol, respectively. Based on plasma concentrations measured 
following inhalation of a single 120 micrograms dose by 12 healthy subjects, the mean terminal 
elimination half-life was determined to be 10 hours. The (R,R)- and (S,S)-enantiomers represented 
about 40% and 60% of unchanged active substance excreted in the urine, respectively. The relative 
proportion of the two enantiomers remained constant over the dose range studied and there was no 
evidence of relative accumulation of one enantiomer over the other after repeated dosing. After oral 
administration (40 to 80 micrograms), 6% to 10% of the dose was recovered in urine as unchanged 
active substance in healthy subjects; up to 8% of the dose was recovered as the glucuronide. A total 
67% of an oral dose of formoterol is excreted in urine (mainly as metabolites) and the remainder in the 
faeces. The renal clearance of formoterol is 150 mL/min. 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of formoterol has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment; 
however, as formoterol is primarily eliminated via hepatic metabolism, an increased exposure can be 
expected in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Glycopyrronium  
Absorption and distribution 
Glycopyrronium has a quaternary ammonium structure which limits its passage across biological 
membranes and produces slow, variable and incomplete gastrointestinal absorption. Following 
glycopyrronium inhalation, the lung bioavailability was 10.5% (with activated charcoal ingestion) 
while the absolute bioavailability was 12.8% (without activated charcoal ingestion) confirming the 
limited gastrointestinal absorption and indicating that more than 80% of glycopyrronium systemic 
exposure was from lung absorption. After repeated inhalation of twice daily doses ranging from 12.5 
to 50 micrograms via pressurised metered dose inhaler in COPD patients, glycopyrronium showed 
linear pharmacokinetics with little systemic accumulation at steady state (median accumulation ratio 
2.2-2.5).  
The apparent volume of distribution (Vz) of inhaled glycopyrronium was increased compared to 
intravenous infusion (6,420 L versus 323 L), reflecting the slower elimination after inhalation.  
Biotransformation 
The metabolic pattern of glycopyrronium in vitro (humans, dogs, rats, mice and rabbits liver 
microsomes and hepatocytes) was similar among species and the main metabolic reaction was the 
hydroxylation on the phenyl or ciclopentyl rings. CYP2D6 was found to be the only enzyme 
responsible for glycopyrronium metabolism. 
Elimination 
The mean elimination half-life of glycopyrronium in healthy volunteers was approximately 6 hours 
after intravenous injection while after inhalation in COPD patients it ranged from 5 to 12 hours at 
steady state. After a glycopyrronium single intravenous injection, 40% of the dose was excreted in the 
urine within 24 hours. In COPD patients receiving repeated twice daily administration of inhaled 
glycopyrronium, the fraction of the dose excreted in urine ranged from 13.0% to 14.5% at steady state. 
Mean renal clearance was similar across the range of doses tested and after single and repeated 
inhalation (range 281-396 mL/min). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Safety pharmacology  
In an inhalation study in telemetered dogs, the cardiovascular system was a major target system for 
acute effects of Trimbow (increase in heart rate, decrease in blood pressure, ECG changes at higher 
doses), effects probably mainly related to the beta2-adrenergic activity of formoterol and the 
anti-muscarinic activity of glycopyrronium. There was no evidence for over-additive effects of the 
triple combination when compared with the single components. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
In repeated dose inhalation studies with Trimbow in rats and dogs of up to 13 weeks duration, the 
main observed alterations were related to effects on the immune system (probably due to systemic 
corticosteroid effects of beclometasone dipropionate and its active metabolite beclometasone-
17-monopropionate) and on the cardiovascular system (probably related to the beta2-adrenergic 
activity of formoterol and the anti-muscarinic activity of glycopyrronium). The toxicological profile of 
the triple combination reflected that of the single active components without a relevant increase in 
toxicity and without unexpected findings. 
Toxicity to reproduction and development 
Beclometasone dipropionate/beclometasone-17-monopropionate was considered responsible for 
reproductive toxicity effects in rats such as reduction of the conception rate, fertility index, early 
embryonic development parameters (implantation loss), delay in ossification and increased incidence 
of visceral variations; while tocolytic and anti-muscarinic effects, attributed to the beta2-adrenergic 
activity of formoterol and the anti-muscarinic activity of glycopyrronium, affected pregnant rats in the 
late phase of gestation and/or early phase of lactation, leading to loss of pups. 
Genotoxicity 
Genotoxicity of Trimbow has not been evaluated, however, the single active components were devoid 
of genotoxic activity in the conventional test systems. 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with Trimbow. However, in a 104-week rat 
inhalation carcinogenicity study and an oral 26-week carcinogenicity study in transgenic Tg-rasH2 
mice, glycopyrronium bromide showed no carcinogenic potential and published data concerning long-
term studies conducted with beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol fumarate in rats do not 
indicate a clinically relevant carcinogenic potential. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Ethanol anhydrous 
Hydrochloric acid 
Norflurane (propellant) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
60 actuation pressurised container 
20 months. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 2 months at 25°C. 
After dispensing, the medicinal product may be stored for a maximum of 2 months at a temperature up 
to 25°C.  
120 actuation pressurised container 
21 months. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 3 months at 25°C. 
After dispensing, the medicinal product may be stored for a maximum of 3 months at a temperature up 
to 25°C.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C. 
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
Packs with 1 container (60 actuation or 120 actuation) 
Prior to dispensing 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
For in-use storage conditions, see section 6.3. 
Multipacks of 2 or 3 containers (120 actuations, each) 
Prior to and after dispensing 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C).  
Before use, patients should take the inhaler out of the refrigerator for some minutes to allow for the 
solution to warm up. 
For in-use storage conditions, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Pressurised container (coated aluminium), with a metering valve. The pressurised container is inserted 
in a polypropylene inhaler which incorporates a mouthpiece and a dose counter (60 actuations or 
120 actuations per pressurised container) and is provided with a polypropylene mouthpiece cap. 
Pack sizes: 
Pack of 1 container with either 60 or 120 actuations. 
Multipack containing 240 actuations (2 containers of 120 actuations each). 
Multipack containing 360 actuations (3 containers of 120 actuations each). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For pharmacists: 
Enter the date of dispensing to the patient on the pack. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/006 
EU/1/17/1208/007 
EU/1/17/1208/008 
EU/1/17/1208/009 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 17 July 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Trimbow 88 micrograms/5 micrograms/9 micrograms inhalation powder 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each delivered dose (the dose leaving the mouthpiece) contains 88 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 5 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium (as 
11 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide). 
Each metered dose contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 6 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium (as 12.5 micrograms 
glycopyrronium bromide). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each inhalation contains 9.9 mg of lactose monohydrate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Inhalation powder 
White or almost white powder in a white inhaler (NEXThaler). 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Maintenance treatment in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) who are not adequately treated by a combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and a 
long-acting beta2-agonist or a combination of a long-acting beta2-agonist and a long-acting 
muscarinic antagonist (for effects on symptoms control and prevention of exacerbations see 
section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is two inhalations twice daily. 
The maximum dose is two inhalations twice daily. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients (65 years of age and older). 
Renal impairment 
Trimbow can be used at the recommended dose in patients with mild (glomerular filtration rate [GFR] 
≥50 to <80 mL/min/1.73 m2) to moderate (GFR ≥30 to <50 mL/min/1.73 m2) renal impairment. Use in 
patients with severe (GFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m2) renal impairment or end-stage renal (GFR 
<15 mL/min/1.73 m2) disease requiring dialysis, especially if associated with significant body weight 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduction, should be considered only if the expected benefit outweighs the potential risk (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
There are no relevant data on the use of Trimbow in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(classified as having Child-Pugh class C) and the medicinal product should be used with caution in 
these patients (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Trimbow in the paediatric population (under 18 years of age) for the 
indication of COPD. 
Method of administration 
For inhalation use. 
The inhaler is a breath-operated inhaler. To ensure proper administration of the medicinal product, the 
patient should be shown how to use the inhaler correctly by a physician or other healthcare 
professional, who should also regularly check the adequacy of the patient’s inhalation technique (see 
“Instructions for use” below).  
The patient should be advised to read the Package Leaflet carefully and follow the instructions for use 
as given in the leaflet. 
After each inhalation, the patient should rinse the mouth or gargle with water without swallowing it or 
brush the teeth (see section 4.4). 
Instructions for use 
Dose 
counter 
window 
Cover 
Mouthpiece 
Air 
Vent 
Inform the patient when using a new inhaler 
• 
If the pouch is not sealed or is damaged or if the inhaler looks broken or damaged, the patient 
should return it to the pharmacist who supplied it and get a new one. 
The patient should write down the date the pouch is opened to the label on the box. 
The dose counter window has to show “120”. If the number shown is less than “120”, the 
patient should return the inhaler to the person who supplied it and get a new one. 
• 
• 
Use of the inhaler 
The patient should stand or sit in an upright position when inhaling from the inhaler. The steps below 
should be followed.  
1. 
The patients should hold the inhaler in the upright position, check the number of doses (any 
number between “1” and “120” shows that there are doses left) and open the cover fully. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
3. 
4. 
The patient should breathe out slowly and as deeply as comfortable, in order to empty the lungs. 
The patient should place the lips around the mouthpiece, without covering the air vent or 
inhaling into the air vent. 
The patient should breathe in forcefully and deeply through the mouth. He/she may notice a 
taste or hear or feel a click when taking the dose. 
5. 
6. 
The patient should then remove the inhaler from the mouth, hold the breath as long as 
comfortably (5-10 seconds) and then breathe out slowly. The patient should not breathe out into 
the inhaler. 
After use, the patient should move the inhaler back to the upright position, close the cover fully 
and check the dose counter to ensure it has gone down by one. 
7. 
If another dose has to be taken, the patient should repeat steps 1-6. 
NOTE: The number of inhalations shown in the window on the shell does not decrease on closing the 
cover if the patient has not inhaled through the inhaler. The patient should be instructed to only open 
the inhaler’s cover when needed. In the event that the patient has opened the inhaler but not inhaled, 
and the cover is closed, the dose is moved back to the powder reservoir within the inhaler; the 
following dose can be safely inhaled. 
Cleaning 
Regular cleaning of the inhaler is normally not necessary. The patient may clean the inhaler after use 
with a dry cloth or tissue, but not with water or other liquids. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Not for acute use 
This medicinal product is not indicated for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm, or to treat 
an acute disease exacerbation (i.e. as a rescue therapy). 
Hypersensitivity 
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported after administration. If signs suggesting 
allergic reactions occur, in particular, angioedema (including difficulties in breathing or swallowing, 
swelling of the tongue, lips and face), urticaria or skin rash, treatment should be discontinued 
immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 
Paradoxical bronchospasm 
Paradoxical bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing and shortness of breath 
after dosing. This should be treated immediately with a fast-acting inhaled bronchodilator (reliever). 
Treatment should be discontinued immediately, the patient assessed and alternative therapy instituted 
if necessary. 
Deterioration of disease 
It is recommended that treatment should not be stopped abruptly. If patients find the treatment 
ineffective, they should continue treatment but medical attention must be sought. Increasing use of 
reliever bronchodilators indicates a worsening of the underlying condition and warrants a reassessment 
of the therapy. Sudden or progressive deterioration in symptoms is potentially life-threatening and the 
patient should undergo urgent medical assessment. 
Cardiovascular effects 
Due to the presence of a long-acting beta2-agonist and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist, Trimbow 
should be used with caution in patients with cardiac arrhythmias, especially third degree 
atrioventricular block and tachyarrhythmias (accelerated and/or irregular heartbeat, including atrial 
fibrillation), idiopathic subvalvular aortic stenosis, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, severe 
heart disease (particularly acute myocardial infarction, ischaemic heart disease, congestive heart 
failure), occlusive vascular diseases (particularly arteriosclerosis), arterial hypertension and aneurysm. 
Caution should also be exercised when treating patients with known or suspected prolongation of the 
QTc interval (QTc > 450 milliseconds for males, or > 470 milliseconds for females), either congenital 
or induced by medicinal products. Patients diagnosed with the described cardiovascular conditions 
were excluded from clinical studies with Trimbow. 
If anaesthesia with halogenated anaesthetics is planned, it should be ensured that Trimbow is not 
administered for at least 12 hours before the start of anaesthesia as there is a risk of cardiac 
arrhythmias. 
Caution is also required when treating patients with thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, 
pheochromocytoma and untreated hypokalaemia. 
Pneumonia in patients with COPD 
An increase in the incidence of pneumonia, including pneumonia requiring hospitalisation, has been 
observed in patients with COPD receiving inhaled corticosteroids. There is some evidence of an 
increased risk of pneumonia with increasing steroid dose but this has not been demonstrated 
conclusively across all studies. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is no conclusive clinical evidence for intra-class differences in the magnitude of the pneumonia 
risk among inhaled corticosteroid products. 
Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD 
as the clinical features of such infections overlap with the symptoms of COPD exacerbations. 
Risk factors for pneumonia in patients with COPD include current smoking, older age, low body mass 
index (BMI) and severe COPD. 
Systemic corticosteroid effects 
Systemic effects may occur with any inhaled corticosteroid, particularly at high doses prescribed for 
long periods. The daily dose of Trimbow corresponds to a medium dose of inhaled corticosteroid; 
furthermore, these effects are much less likely to occur than with oral corticosteroids. Possible 
systemic effects include: Cushing's syndrome, Cushingoid features, adrenal suppression, growth 
retardation, decrease in bone mineral density and, more rarely, a range of psychological or behavioural 
effects including psychomotor hyperactivity, sleep disorders, anxiety, depression or aggression 
(particularly in children). Therefore, it is important that the patient is reviewed regularly. 
Trimbow should be administered with caution in patients with active or quiescent pulmonary 
tuberculosis and in patients with fungal and viral infections in the airways. 
Hypokalaemia 
Potentially serious hypokalaemia may result from beta2-agonist therapy. This has the potential to 
produce adverse cardiovascular effects. Particular caution is advised in patients with severe disease as 
this effect may be potentiated by hypoxia. Hypokalaemia may also be potentiated by concomitant 
treatment with other medicinal products which can induce hypokalaemia, such as xanthine derivatives, 
steroids and diuretics (see section 4.5). 
Caution is also recommended when a number of reliever bronchodilators are used. It is recommended 
that serum potassium levels are monitored in such situations. 
Hyperglycaemia 
The inhalation of formoterol may cause a rise in blood glucose levels. Therefore, blood glucose should 
be monitored during treatment following established guidelines in patients with diabetes. 
Anticholinergic effect 
Glycopyrronium should be used with caution in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma, prostatic 
hyperplasia or urinary retention. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of acute 
narrow-angle glaucoma and should be informed to stop treatment and to contact their doctor 
immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop. 
Additionally, due to the anticholinergic effect of glycopyrronium, the long-term co-administration 
with other anticholinergic-containing medicinal products is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
In patients with severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease requiring 
dialysis, especially if associated with a significant body weight reduction, Trimbow should be used 
only if the expected benefit outweighs the potential risk (see section 5.2). These patients should be 
monitored for potential adverse reactions. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment 
In patients with severe hepatic impairment, Trimbow should be used only if the expected benefit 
outweighs the potential risk (see section 5.2). These patients should be monitored for potential adverse 
reactions. 
Prevention of oropharyngeal infections 
In order to reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candida infection, patients should be advised to rinse their 
mouth or gargle with water without swallowing it or brush their teeth after inhaling the prescribed 
dose. 
Visual disturbance 
Visual disturbance may be reported with systemic and topical corticosteroid use. If a patient presents 
with symptoms such as blurred vision or other visual disturbances, the patient should be considered for 
referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation of possible causes which may include cataract, glaucoma 
or rare diseases such as central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR) which have been reported after use 
of systemic and topical corticosteroids. 
Lactose contents 
This medicinal product contains lactose. 
Lactose contains small amounts of milk proteins, which may cause allergic reactions. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Since glycopyrronium is eliminated mainly by the renal route, interaction could potentially occur with 
medicinal products affecting renal excretion mechanisms (see section 5.2). The effect of organic 
cation transport inhibition (using cimetidine as a probe inhibitor of OCT2 and MATE1 transporters) in 
the kidneys on inhaled glycopyrronium disposition showed a limited increase in its total systemic 
exposure (AUC0-t) by 16% and a slight decrease in renal clearance by 20% due to co-administration of 
cimetidine. 
Beclometasone is less dependent on CYP3A metabolism than some other corticosteroids, and in 
general interactions are unlikely; however, the possibility of systemic effects with concomitant use of 
strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, cobicistat) cannot be excluded, and therefore caution and 
appropriate monitoring is advised with the use of such medicinal products. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Related to formoterol 
Non-cardioselective beta-blockers (including eye drops) should be avoided in patients taking inhaled 
formoterol. If they are administered for compelling reasons, the effect of formoterol will be reduced or 
abolished.  
Concomitant use of other beta-adrenergic medicinal products can have potentially additive effects; 
therefore, caution is required when other beta-adrenergic medicinal products are prescribed 
concomitantly with formoterol. 
Concomitant treatment with quinidine, disopyramide, procainamide, antihistamines, monoamine 
oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants and phenothiazines can prolong the QT interval and 
increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmias. In addition, L-dopa, L-thyroxine, oxytocin and alcohol 
can impair cardiac tolerance towards beta2-sympathomimetics. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, including medicinal products with similar 
properties such as furazolidone and procarbazine, may precipitate hypertensive reactions. 
There is an elevated risk of arrhythmias in patients receiving concomitant anaesthesia with 
halogenated hydrocarbons. 
Concomitant treatment with xanthine derivatives, steroids, or diuretics may potentiate a possible 
hypokalaemic effect of beta2-agonists (see section 4.4). Hypokalaemia may increase the disposition 
towards arrhythmias in patients who are treated with digitalis glycosides. 
Related to glycopyrronium 
The long-term co-administration of Trimbow with other anticholinergic-containing medicinal products 
has not been studied and is therefore not recommended (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of Trimbow in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Glucocorticoids are known to 
cause effects in the early gestation phase, while beta2-sympathomimetics like formoterol have 
tocolytic effects. Therefore, as a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of Trimbow 
during pregnancy and during labour. 
Trimbow should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefit to the patient outweighs the 
potential risk to the foetus. Infants and neonates born to mothers receiving substantial doses should be 
observed for adrenal suppression. 
Breast-feeding 
There are no relevant clinical data on the use of Trimbow during breast-feeding in humans.  
Glucocorticoids are excreted in human milk. It is reasonable to assume that beclometasone 
dipropionate and its metabolites are also excreted in human milk. 
It is unknown whether formoterol or glycopyrronium (including their metabolites) are excreted in 
human milk but they have been detected in the milk of lactating animals. Anticholinergics like 
glycopyrronium could suppress lactation. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
Trimbow therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the women. 
Fertility 
No specific studies have been performed with Trimbow with regard to the safety in human fertility. 
Animal studies have shown impairment of fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Trimbow has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In a 4-week study, the safety profile of Trimbow inhalation powder was similar to the one observed 
for Trimbow pressurised solution.  
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions in patients with COPD or asthma with Trimbow 
pressurised solution are respectively dysphonia (0.3% and 1.5%) and oral candidiasis (0.8% and 
0.3%), which are normally associated with inhaled corticosteroids; muscle spasms (0.4% and 0.2%), 
which can be attributed to the long-acting beta2-agonist component; and dry mouth (0.4% and 0.5%), 
which is a typical anticholinergic effect. Similarly, dry mouth was reported in 2 patients (0.6%) with 
Trimbow inhalation powder. In asthmatic patients, adverse reactions tend to cluster during the first 3 
months following initiation of therapy and become less frequent with longer-term use (after 6 months 
of treatment). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions, associated to beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol/glycopyrronium, occurred 
during clinical studies and post-marketing experience as well as adverse reactions listed for the 
marketed individual components are provided below, listed by system organ class and frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 
to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated 
from available data). 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Adverse reaction 
Pneumonia (in COPD patients), pharyngitis, oral candidiasis, 
urinary tract infection1, nasopharyngitis1 
Influenza1, oral fungal infection, oropharyngeal candidiasis, 
oesophageal candidiasis, fungal (oro)pharyngitis, sinusitis1, 
rhinitis1, gastroenteritis1, vulvovaginal candidiasis1 
Lower respiratory tract infection (fungal) 
Granulocytopenia1 
Thrombocytopenia1 
Dermatitis allergic1 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including erythema, lips, face, eye 
and pharyngeal oedema 
Endocrine disorders  Adrenal suppression1 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Hypokalaemia, hyperglycaemia 
Decreased appetite 
Restlessness1 
Psychomotor hyperactivity1, sleep disorders1, anxiety, 
depression1, aggression1, behavioural changes (predominantly 
in children) 1 
Insomnia 
Headache 
Tremor, dizziness, dysgeusia1, hypoaesthesia1 
Hypersomnia 
Vision, blurred1 (see also section 4.4) 
Glaucoma1, cataract1 
Otosalpingitis1 
Atrial fibrillation, electrocardiogram QT prolonged, 
tachycardia, tachyarrhythmia1, palpitations 
Angina pectoris (stable1 and unstable), extrasystoles 
(ventricular1 and supraventricular), nodal rhythm, sinus 
bradycardia 
Hyperaemia1, flushing1, hypertension 
Extravasation blood  
47 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Frequency 
not known 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Frequency 
not known 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Adverse reaction 
Dysphonia 
Asthmatic crisis1, cough, productive cough1, throat irritation, 
epistaxis1, pharyngeal erythema 
Bronchospasm paradoxical1, exacerbation of asthma, 
oropharyngeal pain, pharyngeal inflammation, dry throat 
Dyspnoea1 
Diarrhoea1, dry mouth, dysphagia1, nausea, dyspepsia1, 
burning sensation of the lips1, dental caries1, (aphthous) 
stomatitis 
Rash1, urticaria, pruritus, hyperhidrosis1 
Angioedema1 
Muscle spasms, myalgia, pain in extremity1, musculoskeletal 
chest pain1 
Growth retardation1 
Dysuria, urinary retention, nephritis1 
Fatigue1  
Asthenia 
Oedema peripheral1 
C-reactive protein increased1, platelet count increased1, free 
fatty acids increased1, blood insulin increased1, blood ketone 
body increased1, cortisol decreased1 
Blood pressure increased1, blood pressure decreased1 
Bone density decreased1 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
1 Adverse reactions reported in the SmPC of at least one of the individual components, but not observed as adverse reactions 
in the clinical development of Trimbow  
Among the observed adverse reactions the following are typically associated with: 
Beclometasone dipropionate 
Pneumonia, oral fungal infections, lower respiratory tract infection fungal, dysphonia, throat irritation, 
hyperglycaemia, psychiatric disorders, cortisol decreased, blurred vision. 
Formoterol 
Hypokalaemia, hyperglycaemia, tremor, palpitations, muscle spasms, electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged, blood pressure increased, blood pressure decreased, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, 
tachyarrhythmia, angina pectoris (stable and unstable), ventricular extrasystoles, nodal rhythm. 
Glycopyrronium 
Glaucoma, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, palpitations, dry mouth, dental caries, dysuria, urinary 
retention, urinary tract infection.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
An overdose of Trimbow may produce signs and symptoms due to the individual component’s 
pharmacological actions, including those seen with overdose of other beta2-agonists or 
anticholinergics and consistent with the known inhaled corticosteroid class effects (see section 4.4). If 
overdose occurs, the patient’s symptoms should be treated supportively with appropriate monitoring as 
necessary. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Drugs for obstructive airway diseases, adrenergics in combination with 
anticholinergics incl. triple combinations with corticosteroids. ATC code: R03AL09. 
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic effects 
Trimbow contains beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol and glycopyrronium (BDP/FF/G) in a dry 
powder formulation resulting in an extrafine aerosol with extrafine particles and co-deposition of the 
three components. The aerosol particles of Trimbow are on average much smaller than the particles 
delivered in non-extrafine formulations. For beclometasone dipropionate, this results in a more potent 
effect than formulations with a non-extrafine particle size distribution (100 micrograms of 
beclometasone dipropionate extrafine in Trimbow are equivalent to 250 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate in a non-extrafine formulation). 
Beclometasone dipropionate 
Beclometasone dipropionate given by inhalation at recommended doses has a glucocorticoid anti-
inflammatory action within the lungs. Glucocorticoids are widely used for the suppression of 
inflammation in chronic inflammatory diseases of the airways. Their action is mediated by the binding 
to glucocorticoid receptors in the cytoplasm resulting in the increased transcription of genes coding for 
anti-inflammatory proteins. 
Formoterol 
Formoterol is a selective beta2-adrenergic agonist that produces relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle 
in patients with reversible airways obstruction. The bronchodilating effect sets in rapidly, within 
1-3 minutes after inhalation, and has a duration of 12 hours after a single dose. 
Glycopyrronium 
Glycopyrronium is a high-affinity, long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (anticholinergic) used 
for inhalation as bronchodilator treatment. Glycopyrronium works by blocking the bronchoconstrictor 
action of acetylcholine on airway smooth muscle cells, thereby dilating the airways. Glycopyrronium 
bromide is a high affinity muscarinic receptor antagonist with a greater than 4-fold selectivity for the 
human M3 receptors over the human M2 receptor as it has been demonstrated. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Trimbow inhalation powder 
The development programme of Trimbow inhalation powder was conducted with BDP/FF/G 88/5/9 
and included one 4-week non-inferiority study. Study TRI-D was a multicentre, randomized, double-
blind, double-dummy, active controlled, 3-way cross-over study that compared 3 treatment periods of 
4 weeks each with BDP/FF/G inhalation powder, BDP/FF/G pressurised inhalation, solution or a 
fixed-dose combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol 100/6 micrograms pressurised 
inhalation solution, each delivered as 2 inhalations twice daily, separated by 2-week wash-outs in 
patients with stable, moderate-to-severe COPD. The co-primary efficacy endpoints were the change 
from baseline in FEV1 AUC0-12h normalised by time and in trough FEV1 at 24 hours on Day 28. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects on lung function 
366 patients were randomized. Non-inferiority of BDP/FF/G inhalation powder versus BDP/FF/G 
pressurised inhalation solution was demonstrated for both co-primary endpoints, with the lower limits 
of confidence interval of the adjusted mean differences falling above the non-inferiority threshold of 
-50 mL: the adjusted mean differences (95% CI) were -20 mL (-35; -6) for FEV1 AUC0-12h, and 3 mL 
(-15; 20) for trough FEV1 at 24 hours on Day 28. 
Both BDP/FF/G powder inhalation and pressurised inhalation solution significantly improved FEV1 
AUC0-12h versus the fixed-dose combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol pressurised 
inhalation solution by 85 mL (95% CI: 70; 99) and 105 mL (95% CI: 90; 120), respectively (p < 0.001 
for both).  
Inspiratory flow 
An open-label placebo study was conducted to verify that the inspiratory flow which could be 
generated through the inhaler is not influenced by patient’s age, disease and disease severity, and 
therefore the activation and delivery of active substances from the device could be achieved in all 
patients. The primary endpoint was the percentage of patients in each age and disease group able to 
activate the inhaler. Eighty-nine patients, in the age range 5-84 years, including patients with moderate 
and severe asthma (FEV1 > 60% and ≤ 60% predicted, respectively), and patients with moderate and 
severe COPD (FEV1 ≥ 50% and < 50% predicted, respectively) participated in the study. All patients, 
irrespective of age, disease and disease severity, were able to generate sufficient inspiratory flow to 
activate the inhaler. In an additional open label placebo study, patients with mild to severe COPD, 
regardless of their functional limitation, were able to effectively activate and use the inhaler. 
Trimbow pressurised solution 
The development programme of Trimbow pressurised solution in COPD was conducted with 
BDP/FF/G 87/5/9 and included two 52-week active-controlled studies. The TRILOGY study 
compared BDP/FF/G with a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol 
100/6 micrograms two inhalations twice daily (1,368 randomised patients). The TRINITY study 
compared BDP/FF/G with tiotropium 18 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsule, one inhalation 
once daily; in addition, effects were compared with an extemporary triple combination made of a fixed 
combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol 100/6 micrograms (corresponding to a 
delivered dose of 84.6/5.0 micrograms) two inhalations twice daily plus tiotropium 18 micrograms 
inhalation powder, hard capsule, one inhalation once daily (2,691 randomised patients). The 
TRIBUTE study compared BDP/FF/G with a fixed combination of indacaterol/glycopyrronium 85/43 
micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsule, one inhalation once daily (1,532 randomised patients). 
Reduction of COPD exacerbations 
BDP/FF/G reduced the rate of moderate/severe exacerbations over 52 weeks by 23% compared with a 
fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol (rate: 0.41 versus 0.53 events per 
patient/year; p = 0.005), by 20% compared with tiotropium (rate: 0.46 versus 0.57 events per 
patient/year; p = 0.003) and by 15% compared with a fixed combination of indacaterol and 
glycopyrronium (rate: 0.50 versus 0.59 events per patient/year; p = 0.043). No differences were 
observed when comparing BDP/FF/G with the extemporary triple combination made of 
beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol fixed combination plus tiotropium (moderate/severe 
exacerbation rate: 0.46 versus 0.45 events per patient/year). 
Effects on lung function 
Compared with a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol, BDP/FF/G 
improved pre-dose FEV1 by 71 mL after 28 days, by 81 mL after 26 weeks of treatment and by 63 mL 
after 52 weeks of treatment. Compared with tiotropium, BDP/FF/G improved pre-dose FEV1 by 
51 mL after 26 weeks of treatment and by 61 mL after 52 weeks of treatment. These improvements 
were statistically significant (p < 0.001). Compared with a fixed combination of indacaterol and 
glycopyrronium, BDP/FF/G improved average pre-dose FEV1 over the 52-week treatment period by 
22 mL (p=0.018). Similar improvements, although not statistically significant, were observed at weeks 
26 and 52.  
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No differences were observed when comparing BDP/FF/G and the extemporary triple combination 
made of a fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol plus tiotropium 
(difference of 3 mL in pre-dose FEV1 after 52 weeks of treatment). 
Symptomatic outcomes 
BDP/FF/G was statistically significantly superior to a fixed combination of beclometasone 
dipropionate and formoterol, to tiotropium and to a fixed combination of indacaterol and 
glycopyrronium in terms of improvement in quality of life (measured by the Saint George Respiratory 
Questionnaire – SGRQ – total score). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Trimbow in all subsets of the paediatric population in COPD (see section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Trimbow - fixed combination 
The pharmacokinetic of beclometasone dipropionate (and its active metabolite beclometasone 
17-monopropionate), formoterol and glycopyrronium bromide has been investigated in a 
pharmacokinetic study conducted in healthy subjects comparing Trimbow inhalation powder with the 
pressurised solution formulation, both delivering beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate 
and glycopyrronium bromide at a strength of 100/6/12.5 µg/inhalation, (8 inhalations corresponding to 
a total dose of 800/48/100 µg). The relative total systemic exposure was assessed without the use of 
activated charcoal ingestion to account for both the active substance absorbed from the lung and from 
the gastrointestinal tract, while the relative lung bioavailability was investigated by using an activated 
charcoal ingestion to exclude active substance absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. 
Beclometasone dipropionate was rapidly absorbed showing a peak in plasma concentration at 10 min 
post-dose for both Trimbow inhalation powder and the pressurised inhalation solution. Administration 
of the inhalation powder resulted in an increased total systemic exposure (1.2-fold for Cmax and 
2.4-fold for AUC0-t) and lung bioavailability (1.3-fold for Cmax and 2.5-fold for AUC0-t) when 
compared to the pressurised solution. Beclometasone 17-monopropionate was rapidly formed showing 
a peak in plasma concentration at about 15-30 min after administration of the medicinal product. 
Administration of the inhalation powder resulted in a slightly lower total systemic exposure compared 
to the pressurised solution (-17% for Cmax and -16% for AUC0-t) while the lung bioavailability was 
equivalent for AUC0-t but slightly lower for Cmax (-13%). 
Formoterol was rapidly absorbed showing a peak in plasma concentration at 10 min post-dose for both 
the inhalation powder and the pressurised inhalation solution. Administration of the inhalation powder 
resulted in an increased total systemic exposure (1.6-fold for Cmax and 1.2-fold for AUC0-t) and lung 
bioavailability (1.8-fold for Cmax and 1.9-fold for AUC0-t) when compared to the pressurised solution. 
The pharmacokinetic profile of glycopyrronium bromide was characterised by a rapid absorption with 
plasma peak concentration at 10 min post-dose for both the inhalation powder and the pressurised 
inhalation solution. The total systemic exposure resulted equivalent for the inhalation powder in 
comparison to the pressurised solution but was 2.2-fold higher when assessed as maximum 
concentration. The lung bioavailability was higher for the inhalation powder, with a 2.9-fold increase 
in Cmax and a 1.2-fold increase in AUC0-t. 
Effect of renal impairment 
Systemic exposure (AUC0-t) to beclometasone dipropionate, to its metabolite beclometasone 
17-monopropionate and to formoterol was not affected by mild to severe renal impairment. For 
glycopyrronium, there was no impact in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment. However, 
an increase in total systemic exposure of up to 2.5-fold was observed in subjects with severe renal 
impairment (glomerular filtration rate below 30 mL/min/1.73 m2), as a consequence of a significant 
reduction of the amount excreted in urine (approximately 90% reduction of glycopyrronium renal 
clearance). Simulations performed with a pharmacokinetic model showed that even when covariates 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
had extreme values (body weight less than 40 kg and concomitant glomerular filtration rate below 
27 mL/min/1.73 m²), exposure to Trimbow active substances remains in approximately a 2.5-fold 
range compared to the exposure in a typical patient with median covariate values. 
Beclometasone dipropionate 
Beclometasone dipropionate is a pro-drug with weak glucocorticoid receptor binding affinity that is 
hydrolysed via esterase enzymes to an active metabolite beclometasone 17-monopropionate which has 
a more potent topical anti-inflammatory activity compared with the pro-drug beclometasone 
dipropionate. 
Absorption, distribution and biotransformation 
Inhaled beclometasone dipropionate is rapidly absorbed through the lungs; prior to absorption there is 
extensive conversion to beclometasone 17-monopropionate via esterase enzymes that are found in 
most tissues. The systemic availability of the active metabolite arises from lung (36%) and from 
gastrointestinal absorption of the swallowed dose. The bioavailability of swallowed beclometasone 
dipropionate is negligible; however, pre-systemic conversion to beclometasone 17-monopropionate 
results in 41% of the dose being absorbed as the active metabolite. There is an approximately linear 
increase in systemic exposure with increasing inhaled dose. The absolute bioavailability following 
inhalation is approximately 2% and 62% of the nominal dose for unchanged beclometasone 
dipropionate and beclometasone 17-monopropionate respectively. Following intravenous dosing, the 
disposition of beclometasone dipropionate and its active metabolite is characterised by high plasma 
clearance (150 and 120 L/h respectively), with a small volume of distribution at steady state for 
beclometasone dipropionate (20 L) and larger tissue distribution for its active metabolite (424 L). 
Plasma protein binding is moderately high. 
Elimination 
Faecal excretion is the major route of beclometasone dipropionate elimination mainly as polar 
metabolites. The renal excretion of beclometasone dipropionate and its metabolites is negligible. The 
terminal elimination half-lives are 0.5 hours and 2.7 hours for beclometasone dipropionate and 
beclometasone 17-monopropionate respectively. 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of beclometasone dipropionate in patients with hepatic impairment has not been 
studied, however, as beclometasone dipropionate undergoes a very rapid metabolism via esterase 
enzymes present in intestinal fluid, serum, lungs and liver to form the more polar products 
beclometasone 21-monopropionate, beclometasone 17-monopropionate and beclometasone, hepatic 
impairment is not expected to modify the pharmacokinetics and safety profile of beclometasone 
dipropionate. 
Formoterol 
Absorption and distribution 
Following inhalation, formoterol is absorbed from both the lung and the gastrointestinal tract. The 
fraction of an inhaled dose that is swallowed after administration with a metered dose inhaler may 
range between 60% and 90%. At least 65% of the fraction that is swallowed is absorbed from the 
gastrointestinal tract. Peak plasma concentrations of the unchanged active substance occur within 0.5 
to 1 hours after oral administration. Plasma protein binding of formoterol is 61-64% with 34% bound 
to albumin. There was no saturation of binding in the concentration range attained with therapeutic 
doses. The elimination half-life determined after oral administration is 2-3 hours. Absorption of 
formoterol is linear following inhalation of 12 to 96 micrograms of formoterol. 
Biotransformation 
Formoterol is widely metabolised and the prominent pathway involves direct conjugation at the 
phenolic hydroxyl group. Glucuronide acid conjugate is inactive. The second major pathway involves 
O-demethylation followed by conjugation at the phenolic 2'-hydroxyl group. Cytochrome P450 
isoenzymes CYP2D6, CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 are involved in the O-demethylation of formoterol. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liver appears to be the primary site of metabolism. Formoterol does not inhibit CYP450 enzymes at 
therapeutically relevant concentrations. 
Elimination 
The cumulative urinary excretion of formoterol after single inhalation from a dry powder inhaler 
increased linearly in the 12-96 micrograms dose range. On average, 8% and 25% of the dose was 
excreted as unchanged and total formoterol, respectively. Based on plasma concentrations measured 
following inhalation of a single 120 micrograms dose by 12 healthy subjects, the mean terminal 
elimination half-life was determined to be 10 hours. The (R,R)- and (S,S)-enantiomers represented 
about 40% and 60% of unchanged active substance excreted in the urine, respectively. The relative 
proportion of the two enantiomers remained constant over the dose range studied and there was no 
evidence of relative accumulation of one enantiomer over the other after repeated dosing. After oral 
administration (40 to 80 micrograms), 6% to 10% of the dose was recovered in urine as unchanged 
active substance in healthy subjects; up to 8% of the dose was recovered as the glucuronide. A total 
67% of an oral dose of formoterol is excreted in urine (mainly as metabolites) and the remainder in the 
faeces. The renal clearance of formoterol is 150 mL/min. 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of formoterol has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment; 
however, as formoterol is primarily eliminated via hepatic metabolism, an increased exposure can be 
expected in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Glycopyrronium  
Absorption and distribution 
Glycopyrronium has a quaternary ammonium structure which limits its passage across biological 
membranes and produces slow, variable and incomplete gastrointestinal absorption. Following 
glycopyrronium inhalation, the lung bioavailability was 10.5% (with activated charcoal ingestion) 
while the absolute bioavailability was 12.8% (without activated charcoal ingestion) confirming the 
limited gastrointestinal absorption and indicating that more than 80% of glycopyrronium systemic 
exposure was from lung absorption. After repeated inhalation of twice daily doses ranging from 12.5 
to 50 micrograms via pressurised metered dose inhaler in COPD patients, glycopyrronium showed 
linear pharmacokinetics with little systemic accumulation at steady state (median accumulation ratio 
2.2-2.5).  
The apparent volume of distribution (Vz) of inhaled glycopyrronium was increased compared to 
intravenous infusion (6,420 L versus 323 L), reflecting the slower elimination after inhalation.  
Biotransformation 
The metabolic pattern of glycopyrronium in vitro (humans, dogs, rats, mice and rabbits liver 
microsomes and hepatocytes) was similar among species and the main metabolic reaction was the 
hydroxylation on the phenyl or ciclopentyl rings. CYP2D6 was found to be the only enzyme 
responsible for glycopyrronium metabolism. 
Elimination 
The mean elimination half-life of glycopyrronium in healthy volunteers was approximately 6 hours 
after intravenous injection while after inhalation in COPD patients it ranged from 5 to 12 hours at 
steady state. After a glycopyrronium single intravenous injection, 40% of the dose was excreted in the 
urine within 24 hours. In COPD patients receiving repeated twice daily administration of inhaled 
glycopyrronium, the fraction of the dose excreted in urine ranged from 13.0% to 14.5% at steady state. 
Mean renal clearance was similar across the range of doses tested and after single and repeated 
inhalation (range 281-396 mL/min). 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Safety pharmacology  
In an inhalation study in telemetered dogs, the cardiovascular system was a major target system for 
acute effects of Trimbow (increase in heart rate, decrease in blood pressure, ECG changes at higher 
doses), effects probably mainly related to the beta2-adrenergic activity of formoterol and the 
anti-muscarinic activity of glycopyrronium. There was no evidence for over-additive effects of the 
triple combination when compared with the single components. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
In repeated dose inhalation studies with Trimbow in rats and dogs of up to 13 weeks duration, the 
main observed alterations were related to effects on the immune system (probably due to systemic 
corticosteroid effects of beclometasone dipropionate and its active metabolite beclometasone-
17-monopropionate) and on the cardiovascular system (probably related to the beta2-adrenergic 
activity of formoterol and the anti-muscarinic activity of glycopyrronium). The toxicological profile of 
the triple combination reflected that of the single active components without a relevant increase in 
toxicity and without unexpected findings. 
Toxicity to reproduction and development 
Beclometasone dipropionate/beclometasone-17-monopropionate was considered responsible for 
reproductive toxicity effects in rats such as reduction of the conception rate, fertility index, early 
embryonic development parameters (implantation loss), delay in ossification and increased incidence 
of visceral variations; while tocolytic and anti-muscarinic effects, attributed to the beta2-adrenergic 
activity of formoterol and the anti-muscarinic activity of glycopyrronium, affected pregnant rats in the 
late phase of gestation and/or early phase of lactation, leading to loss of pups. 
Genotoxicity 
Genotoxicity of Trimbow has not been evaluated, however, the single active components were devoid 
of genotoxic activity in the conventional test systems. 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with Trimbow. However, in a 104-week rat 
inhalation carcinogenicity study and an oral 26-week carcinogenicity study in transgenic Tg.rasH2 
mice, glycopyrronium bromide showed no carcinogenic potential and published data concerning long-
term studies conducted with beclometasone dipropionate and formoterol fumarate in rats do not 
indicate a clinically relevant carcinogenic potential. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Lactose monohydrate (may contain milk proteins) 
Magnesium stearate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
21 months. 
After first opening the pouch, the medicinal product should be used within 6 weeks and stored in a dry 
place. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Keep the inhaler in the original package in order to protect from moisture and only remove from the 
pouch immediately before first use. 
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
The inhaler is a white inhaler with a grey mouthpiece cover and a counter for the inhalations. It 
consists of a casework comprising of a lower shell with window to display number of inhalations left 
and an integral cover. When opened, the cover, which also drives the dose counter mechanism, reveals 
a mouthpiece through which the medicinal product is inhaled.  
The lower shell and mouthpiece are made from acrylonitrile butadiene styrene and the cover is made 
from polypropylene.  
The inhaler is packed into a thermo welded Polyamide/Aluminium/Polyethylene (PA/Al/PE) or 
Polyethylene-Terephthalate/Aluminium/ Polyethylene (PET/Al/PE) pouch.  
Pack sizes: 
Pack of 1 inhaler containing 120 inhalations 
Multipack containing 240 inhalations (2 inhalers of 120 inhalations each). 
Multipack containing 360 inhalations (3 inhalers of 120 inhalations each). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/010 
EU/1/17/1208/011 
EU/1/17/1208/012 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 17 July 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via San Leonardo 96 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
Chiesi SAS 
2 rue des Docteurs Alberto et Paolo Chiesi 
41260 La Chaussée Saint Victor 
France 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Gonzagagasse 16/16 
1010 Wien 
Austria 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR SINGLE PACK  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Trimbow 87/5/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each delivered dose contains 87 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 5 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: anhydrous ethanol, hydrochloric acid, propellant: norflurane. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Pressurised inhalation, solution. 
1 pressurised container of 60 actuations. 
1 pressurised container of 120 actuations.  
1 pressurised container of 180 actuations. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
60 actuation pressurised container: 
After dispensing: 
Store below 25°C for a maximum of 2 months. 
120 and 180 actuation pressurised container: 
After dispensing: 
Store below 25°C for a maximum of 4 months. 
Dispensing date  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C.  
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
Prior to dispensing: 
Store in a refrigerator.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/001 
EU/1/17/1208/002 
EU/1/17/1208/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Trimbow 87/5/9 mcg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (including Blue Box) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Trimbow 87/5/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each delivered dose contains 87 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 5 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: anhydrous ethanol, hydrochloric acid, propellant: norflurane. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Pressurised inhalation, solution. 
Multipack: 240 actuations (2 pressurised containers of 120 actuations each). 
Multipack: 360 actuations (3 pressurised containers of 120 actuations each).  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
After dispensing: 
Store below 25°C for a maximum of 4 months. 
Dispensing date  
Also enter the date of dispensing on each individual pack. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C.  
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
Prior to dispensing: 
Store in a refrigerator. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/004 
EU/1/17/1208/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Trimbow 87/5/9 mcg 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Trimbow 87/5/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each delivered dose contains 87 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 5 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: anhydrous ethanol, hydrochloric acid, propellant: norflurane. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Pressurised inhalation, solution. 
1 pressurised container of 120 actuations.  
Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
After dispensing: 
Store below 25°C for a maximum of 4 months. 
Dispensing date  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C.  
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/004 
EU/1/17/1208/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Trimbow 87/5/9 mcg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
69 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
ALUMINIUM CONTAINER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Trimbow 87/5/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation  
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
Inhalation use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
60 actuations 
120 actuations 
180 actuations 
6. 
OTHER 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PLASTIC ACTUATOR 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Trimbow 87/5/9 mcg 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
6. 
OTHER 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR SINGLE PACK  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Trimbow 172/5/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each delivered dose contains 172 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 5 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 200 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: anhydrous ethanol, hydrochloric acid, propellant: norflurane. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Pressurised inhalation, solution. 
1 pressurised container of 60 actuations. 
1 pressurised container of 120 actuations.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
60 actuation pressurised container: 
After dispensing: 
Store below 25°C for a maximum of 2 months. 
120 actuation pressurised container: 
After dispensing: 
Store below 25°C for a maximum of 3 months. 
Dispensing date  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C.  
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
Prior to dispensing: 
Store in a refrigerator.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/006 
EU/1/17/1208/007 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Trimbow 172/5/9 mcg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (including Blue Box) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Trimbow 172/5/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each delivered dose contains 172 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 5 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 200 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: anhydrous ethanol, hydrochloric acid, propellant: norflurane. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Pressurised inhalation, solution. 
Multipack: 240 actuations (2 pressurised containers of 120 actuations each). 
Multipack: 360 actuations (3 pressurised containers of 120 actuations each).  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
Enter the date of first use on each individual pack. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C.  
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
Prior to and after dispensing: 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Before use, take one inhaler out of the refrigerator for some minutes to allow for the solution to warm 
up. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/008 
EU/1/17/1208/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Trimbow 172/5/9 mcg 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Trimbow 172/5/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each delivered dose contains 172 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 5 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 200 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: anhydrous ethanol, hydrochloric acid, propellant: norflurane. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Pressurised inhalation, solution. 
1 pressurised container of 120 actuations.  
Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
After first use: 
Store below 25°C for a maximum of 3 months. 
First use date  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C.  
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
Before use: take the inhaler out of the refrigerator for some minutes to allow the solution to warm up. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/008 
EU/1/17/1208/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Trimbow 172/5/9 mcg 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
ALUMINIUM CONTAINER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Trimbow 172/5/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation  
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
Inhalation use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
60 actuations 
120 actuations 
6. 
OTHER 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PLASTIC ACTUATOR 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Trimbow 172/5/9 mcg 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
6. 
OTHER 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR SINGLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Trimbow 88/5/9 micrograms inhalation powder 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each delivered dose contains 88 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 5 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Each metered dose contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 6 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Inhalation powder 
1 NEXThaler inhaler containing 120 inhalations. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
After first opening the pouch, the medicine should be used within 6 weeks and stored in a dry 
place. 
For the patient: enter the date you first open the pouch and stick this label to the bottom of the inhaler. 
[Space for the adhesive label, showing the following text:] 
Trimbow 88/5/9 Pouch opening date: ../../.. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C 
Keep the inhaler in the original package in order to protect from moisture and only remove from the 
pouch immediately before first use. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/010 (1 inhaler of 120 inhalations) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Trimbow 88/5/9 mcg inhalation powder 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (including Blue Box) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Trimbow 88/5/9 micrograms inhalation powder 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each delivered dose contains 88 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 5 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Each metered dose contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 6 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Inhalation powder 
Multipack: 240 inhalations (2 NEXThaler inhalers of 120 inhalations each). 
Multipack: 360 inhalations (3 NEXThaler inhalers of 120 inhalations each).  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
After first opening the pouch, the medicine should be used within 6 weeks and stored in a dry 
place. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Keep the inhaler in the original package in order to protect from moisture and only remove from the 
pouch immediately before first use. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/011 (2 inhalers of 120 inhalations each) 
EU/1/17/1208/012 (3 inhalers of 120 inhalations each) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Trimbow 88/5/9 mcg inhalation powder 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN
88 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Trimbow 88/5/9 micrograms inhalation powder 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each delivered dose contains 88 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 5 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Each metered dose contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 6 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Inhalation powder. 
1 NEXThaler inhaler containing 120 inhalations. 
Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
After first opening the pouch, the medicine should be used within 6 weeks and stored in a dry 
place. 
For the patient: enter the date you first open the pouch and stick this label to the bottom of the inhaler. 
[Space for the adhesive label, showing the following text:] 
Trimbow 88/5/9 Pouch opening date: ../../.. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C 
Keep the inhaler in the original package in order to protect from moisture and only remove from the 
pouch immediately before first use. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1208/011 (2 inhalers of 120 inhalations each) 
EU/1/17/1208/012 (3 inhalers of 120 inhalations each) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Trimbow 88/5/9 mcg inhalation powder 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE INTERMEDIATE PACKAGING 
POUCH 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Trimbow 88/5/9 micrograms inhalation powder 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Inhalation powder 
1 NEXThaler inhaler containing 120 inhalations.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
After first opening the pouch, the medicine should be used within 6 weeks and stored in a dry 
place. 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C 
Keep the inhaler in the original package in order to protect from moisture and only remove from the 
pouch immediately before first use. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
INHALER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Trimbow 88/5/9 mcg inhalation powder 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
Inhalation use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
120 inhalations 
6. 
OTHER 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Trimbow 87 micrograms/5 micrograms/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Trimbow is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Trimbow 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Trimbow 
Possible side effects 
How to store Trimbow 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Trimbow is and what it is used for 
Trimbow is a medicine to help breathing that contains the three active substances: 
• 
• 
• 
beclometasone dipropionate,  
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and  
glycopyrronium.  
Beclometasone dipropionate belongs to a group of medicines called corticosteroids which act to 
reduce the swelling and irritation in your lungs. 
Formoterol and glycopyrronium are medicines called long-acting bronchodilators. They act in 
different ways to relax the muscles in your airways, helping to open the airways wider and allowing 
you to breathe more easily. 
Regular treatment with these three active substances helps to relieve and prevent symptoms such as 
shortness of breath, wheezing and cough in adult patients with obstructive lung disease.  
Trimbow is used for the regular treatment of  
• 
• 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in adults 
asthma in adults. 
Trimbow can reduce exacerbations (flare-ups) of COPD and asthma symptoms.  
COPD is a serious long-term disease in which the airways become blocked and air sacs inside the 
lungs become damaged, leading to difficulty breathing. 
Asthma is a serious, long-term disease where the muscles surrounding the airways become tight 
(bronchoconstriction) and swollen and irritated (inflammation). Symptoms come and go and include 
shortness of breath, wheezing, chest tightness and cough.  
You should use Trimbow every day and not only when you have breathing problems or other 
symptoms of asthma. This will ensure that it controls your asthma properly. Do not use this medicine 
to relieve a sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you use Trimbow 
Do not use Trimbow 
If you are allergic to beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate dihydrate and/or 
glycopyrronium or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Trimbow is used as a maintenance treatment for your obstructive lung disease. Do not use this 
medicine to treat a sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
If your breathing gets worse 
If you develop worsening shortness of breath or wheezing (breathing with a whistling sound), straight 
after inhaling your medicine, stop using Trimbow inhaler and use your quick-acting “reliever” inhaler 
straightaway. You should contact your doctor straightaway. Your doctor will assess your symptoms 
and if necessary may start you on a different treatment.  
See also section 4, “Possible side effects”. 
If your lung disease gets worse 
If your symptoms get worse or are difficult to control (e.g. if you are using a separate “reliever” 
inhaler more frequently) or if your “reliever” inhaler does not improve your symptoms, see your 
doctor immediately. Your lung disease may be getting worse and your doctor may need to prescribe 
different treatment. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Trimbow: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you have any heart problems, such as angina (heart pain, pain in the chest), a recent heart 
attack (myocardial infarction), heart failure, narrowing of the arteries around your heart 
(coronary heart disease), disease of your heart valves or any other abnormalities of your heart or 
if you have a condition known as hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (also known as 
HOCM, a condition where the heart muscle is abnormal). 
if you have disorders of your heart rhythm such as irregular heart rate, a fast pulse rate or 
palpitations or if you have been told that your heart trace (ECG) is abnormal. 
if you have narrowing of the arteries (also known as arteriosclerosis), if you have high blood 
pressure or if you have an aneurysm (abnormal bulging of the blood vessel wall). 
if you have an overactive thyroid gland. 
if you have low blood levels of potassium (hypokalaemia). The combination of Trimbow with 
some other lung medicines or medicines such as diuretics (medicines that make the body lose 
water, to treat heart disease or high blood pressure), can cause a sharp fall in your blood level of 
potassium. Therefore, your doctor may wish to measure the potassium levels in your blood from 
time to time. 
if you have any disease of your liver or kidneys. 
if you have diabetes. High doses of formoterol may increase your blood glucose and therefore 
you may need to have extra blood tests to check your blood sugar when you start using this 
medicine, and from time to time during treatment. 
if you have a tumour of the adrenal gland (known as a phaeochromocytoma). 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you are due to have an anaesthetic. Depending on the type of anaesthetic, it may be necessary 
to stop using Trimbow at least 12 hours before the anaesthesia. 
if you are being, or have ever been, treated for tuberculosis (TB) or if you have a chest 
infection. 
if you have an eye problem called narrow-angle glaucoma. 
if you have difficulty passing urine.  
if you have an infection of the mouth or throat. 
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor before you use Trimbow.  
If you have or have had any medical problems or any allergies or if you are not sure if you can use 
Trimbow, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using the inhaler.  
If you are already using Trimbow  
If you are using Trimbow or high doses of other inhaled corticosteroids over long periods and you 
come into a situation of stress (e.g. being taken to hospital after an accident, having a serious injury or 
before an operation) you may need more of this medicine. In such a situation, your doctor may need to 
increase your dose of corticosteroids to cope with the stress and may prescribe them as tablets or 
injections. 
Contact your doctor if you experience blurred vision or other visual disturbances. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents below the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and Trimbow 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines similar to Trimbow used for your lung disease.  
Some medicines may increase the effects of Trimbow and your doctor may wish to monitor you 
carefully if you are taking these medicines (including some medicines for HIV: ritonavir, cobicistat). 
Do not use this medicine with a beta-blocker medicine (used for treating certain heart problems 
such as angina or for reducing blood pressure) unless your doctor has chosen a beta-blocker that does 
not affect your breathing. Beta-blockers (including beta-blocker eye-drops) may reduce the effects of 
formoterol or make it not work at all. On the other hand, using other beta2-agonist medicines (which 
work in the same way as formoterol) may increase the effects of formoterol. 
Using Trimbow together with:  
• 
• 
medicines for treating  
-  abnormal heart rhythms (quinidine, disopyramide, procainamide),  
-  allergic reactions (antihistamines),  
-  symptoms of depression or mental disorders such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (for 
example phenelzine and isocarboxazid), tricyclic antidepressants (for example amitriptyline 
and imipramine), phenothiazines  
can cause some changes in the electrocardiogram (ECG, heart trace). They may also increase 
the risk of disturbances of heart rhythm (ventricular arrhythmias). 
medicines for treating Parkinson’s disease (levodopa), to treat an underactive thyroid gland 
(levothyroxine), medicines containing oxytocin (which causes uterine contraction) and alcohol 
can increase the chances of formoterol side effects on the heart. 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including medicines with similar properties like 
furazolidone and procarbazine, used to treat mental disorders, can cause a rise in blood pressure. 
medicines for treating heart disease (digoxin) can cause a fall in your blood potassium level. 
This may increase the likelihood of abnormal heart rhythms. 
other medicines used to treat obstructive lung disease (theophylline, aminophylline or 
corticosteroids) and diuretics may also cause a fall in your potassium level.  
some anaesthetics can increase the risk of abnormal heart rhythms. 
Disulfiram, a medicine used in the treatment of people with alcoholism (drinking problems) or 
metronidazole, an antibiotic to treat infection in your body can cause side effects (e.g. feeling 
sick, being sick, stomach pain) due to the small amount of alcohol in Trimbow. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine.  
You should only use Trimbow during pregnancy if you are advised to do so by your doctor. It is 
preferable to avoid the use of Trimbow during labour due to the inhibitory effects of formoterol on 
uterine contractions. 
You should not use Trimbow during breast-feeding. You and your doctor must make a decision 
whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Trimbow therapy taking into 
account the benefit of breast-feeding for your child and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Driving and using machines 
Trimbow is unlikely to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
Trimbow contains ethanol 
Trimbow contains 8.856 mg of alcohol (ethanol) in each actuation, which is equivalent to 17.712 mg 
per dose of two actuations. The amount in two actuations of this medicine is equivalent to less than 
1 ml of wine or beer. The small amount of alcohol in this medicine will not have any noticeable 
effects. 
3. 
How to use Trimbow 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
The recommended dose is two puffs in the morning and two puffs in the evening.  
Do not use more than your doctor tells you to use. 
You should use Trimbow every day, even when your asthma is not troubling you. 
Do not use this medicine to relieve a sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
If you feel that the medicine is not very effective, talk to your doctor. 
If you have been using a different inhaler containing beclometasone dipropionate previously, ask your 
doctor for advice, as the effective dose of beclometasone dipropionate in Trimbow for the treatment of 
your obstructive lung disease may be lower than that of some other inhalers.   
Route of administration 
Trimbow is for inhalation use. 
You should inhale the medicine through your mouth and this takes the medicine directly into your 
lungs. 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine is contained in a pressurised container in a plastic inhaler with a mouthpiece.  
Trimbow is available in three container sizes:  
• 
• 
• 
a container providing 60 puffs 
a container providing 120 puffs 
a container providing 180 puffs. 
If you have been prescribed a container providing 60 puffs or 120 puffs 
There is a counter on the back of the inhaler, which tells you how many doses are left. Each time you 
press the pressurised container, a puff of medicine is released and the counter will count down by one. 
Take care not to drop the inhaler as this may cause the counter to count down. 
If you have been prescribed a container providing 180 puffs 
There is an indicator on the back of the inhaler, which tells you how many doses are left. Each time 
you press the pressurised container, a puff of medicine is released and the dose indicator rotates by a 
small amount. The number of puffs remaining is displayed in intervals of 20. Take care not to drop the 
inhaler as this may cause the dose indicator to count down. 
Testing your inhaler 
Before using the inhaler for the first time, you should test your inhaler to make sure that it is working 
properly, as follows.  
1. 
Depending on the container size prescribed to you, check that the dose counter reads 61 or 121 
and that the dose indicator reads 180 
Remove the protective cap from the mouthpiece 
Hold your inhaler upright with the mouthpiece at the bottom  
Direct the mouthpiece away from yourself and firmly press the pressurised container to release 
one puff 
Check the dose counter or dose indicator. If you are testing your inhaler for the first time, the 
counter should read:  
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
60 
- when using the container 
providing 60 puffs 
120 
- when using the container 
providing 120 puffs 
180 
- when using the container 
providing 180 puffs 
How to use your inhaler 
Stand or sit up when inhaling.  
IMPORTANT: Do not perform steps 2 to 5 too quickly.  
1. 
2. 
Remove the protective cap from the mouthpiece and check that the mouthpiece is clean and free 
from dust and dirt. 
Breathe out as slowly and deeply as possible, in order to empty your lungs. 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
Hold the inhaler upright with the mouthpiece at the bottom and place the mouthpiece between 
your teeth without biting it. Then place your lips around the mouthpiece, with the tongue flat 
under it. 
Breathe in slowly and deeply through your mouth to fill your lungs with air (this should take 
about 4–5 seconds). Just after starting to breathe in, press down firmly on the top of the 
pressurised container to release one puff.  
Hold your breath for as long as possible and, finally, remove the inhaler from your mouth and 
breathe out slowly. Do not breathe out into the inhaler. 
Check that the dose counter (60/120 puffs) has moved down by one or that the dose indicator 
(180 puffs) has rotated by a small amount. 
For the second puff, keep the inhaler in the upright position for about half a minute, then repeat steps 2 
to 5. 
If you see 'mist' coming from the top of the inhaler or the sides of your mouth, this means that 
Trimbow will not be getting into your lungs as it should. Take another puff, following the instructions 
starting again from step 2. 
After use, replace the protective cap. 
To prevent a fungal infection in the mouth and throat, rinse your mouth or gargle with water without 
swallowing it or brush your teeth after each use of your inhaler. 
When to get a new inhaler 
You should get a replacement when the counter or indicator shows the number 20. Stop using the 
inhaler when the counter or indicator shows 0, as any medicine left in the inhaler may not be enough 
to give you a full puff. 
If you have a weak grip, it may be easier to hold the inhaler with both hands: hold the upper part of the 
inhaler with both index fingers and its lower part with both thumbs. 
If you find it difficult to use the inhaler while starting to breathe in, you may use the AeroChamber 
Plus spacer device. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about this device. 
It is important that you read the package leaflet which is supplied with your AeroChamber Plus spacer 
device and that you carefully follow the instructions on how to use the AeroChamber Plus spacer 
device and how to clean it. 
Cleaning of the Trimbow inhaler 
You should clean your inhaler once a week.  
1. 
Do not remove the pressurised container from the inhaler and do not use water or other liquids to 
clean your inhaler. 
Remove the protective cap from the mouthpiece by pulling it away from your inhaler. 
2. 
3.  Wipe inside and outside of the mouthpiece and the inhaler with a clean, dry cloth or tissue. 
4. 
Replace the mouthpiece cap. 
If you use more Trimbow than you should 
It is important that you take your dose as advised by your doctor. Do not exceed your prescribed dose 
without talking to your doctor. 
If you use more Trimbow than you should, side effects, as described in section 4, may occur.  
Tell your doctor if you have used more Trimbow than you should and if you experience any of these 
symptoms. Your doctor may wish to carry out some blood tests. 
If you forget to use Trimbow 
Use it as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, do not take the dose you have 
missed, but just take the next dose at the correct time. Do not double the dose. 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you stop using Trimbow 
It is important to use Trimbow every day. Do not stop using Trimbow or lower the dose, even if you are 
feeling better or you have no symptoms. If you want to do this, talk to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
There is a risk of worsening shortness of breath and wheezing immediately after using Trimbow and 
this is known as paradoxical bronchospasm (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people). If this occurs you 
should stop using Trimbow and use your quick-acting “reliever” inhaler straightaway to treat the 
shortness of breath and wheezing. You should contact your doctor straightaway. 
Tell your doctor immediately 
• 
if you experience any allergic reactions like skin allergies, hives, skin itching, skin rash (may 
affect up to 1 in 100 people), reddening of the skin, swelling of the skin or mucous membranes 
especially of the eyes, face, lips and throat (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people). 
if you experience eye pain or discomfort, temporary blurring of vision, visual halos or coloured 
images in association with red eyes. These may be signs of an acute attack of narrow-angle 
glaucoma (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people). 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have any of the following while using Trimbow as they could be symptoms of 
a lung infection (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
fever or chills 
increased mucus production, change in mucus colour 
increased cough or increased breathing difficulties. 
Possible side effects are listed below according to their frequency.  
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
sore throat 
runny or stuffy nose and sneezing 
fungal infections of the mouth. Rinsing your mouth or gargling with water and brushing your 
teeth immediately after inhalation may help to prevent these side effects 
hoarseness 
headache 
urinary tract infection. 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
flu 
inflammation of the sinuses 
itchy, runny or blocked nose 
fungal infections of the throat or of 
the food pipe (oesophagus)  
fungal infections of the vagina 
restlessness 
trembling 
dizziness 
abnormal or reduced sense of taste 
numbness 
inflammation of the ear 
irregular heart beat 
changes in the electrocardiogram 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
irritation of the throat 
nose bleeds 
redness of the pharynx 
dry mouth 
diarrhoea 
swallowing difficulties 
feeling sick 
upset stomach 
stomach discomfort after meals 
burning sensation of the lips 
tooth decay 
skin rash, hives, skin itching 
inflammation of the mucous membrane of the 
mouth with or without ulcers 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(heart trace) 
unusually fast heart beat and 
disorders of the heart rhythm 
palpitations (feeling of abnormal 
beating of the heart) 
reddening of the face 
increased blood flow to some tissues 
in the body 
asthma attack 
cough and productive cough 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
fungal infections of the chest 
• 
decreased appetite 
• 
sleep disorders (sleeping too little or too 
long) 
crushing chest pain 
sensation of a missed heart beat or of extra 
heart beats, unusually slow heart beat 
worsening of asthma 
• 
• 
• 
increased sweating 
muscle cramps and pain in muscles 
pain in arms or legs 
pain in muscles, bones or joints of the chest 
tiredness 
increase of blood pressure 
fall in the level of some constituents of your 
blood: of certain white blood cells called 
granulocytes, of potassium or of cortisol 
increase in the level of some constituents of your 
blood: glucose, C-reactive protein, number of 
platelets, insulin, free fatty acid or ketones. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leakage of blood from a vessel into the 
tissues surrounding it 
decrease of blood pressure 
weakness 
pain in the back of the mouth and throat 
inflammation of the pharynx 
dry throat 
painful and frequent urination 
difficulty and pain when passing urine 
inflammation of the kidneys. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low level in the number of certain blood cells called platelets 
feeling breathless or short of breath 
swelling of the hands and feet 
growth retardation in children and adolescents. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
blurred vision. 
Using high-dose inhaled corticosteroids over a long time can cause in very rare cases effects on 
the body: 
• 
• 
• 
problems with how your adrenal glands work (adrenal suppression) 
decrease in bone mineral density (thinning of the bones) 
clouding of the lens of your eyes (cataract). 
Trimbow does not contain a high-dose inhaled corticosteroid, but your doctor may wish to measure the 
cortisol levels in your blood from time to time. 
The following side effects can also occur with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids used over a long time, 
but the frequency is not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) at present: 
• 
• 
These events are more likely to occur in children. 
depression 
feeling worried, nervous, over-excited or irritable. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Trimbow 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C.  
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
Prior to dispensing: 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
After dispensing (receiving this medicine from your pharmacist): 
60 actuation pressurised container:  
Store the inhaler below 25°C for a maximum of 
2 months.  
120 (from a single or multipack) and  
180 actuation pressurised container:  
Store the inhaler below 25°C for a maximum of 
4 months.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Content of the pack and other information 
What Trimbow contains 
The active substances are: beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 
glycopyrronium. 
Each delivered dose (the dose leaving the mouthpiece) contains 87 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 5 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium (as 
11 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide). 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium 
(as 12.5 micrograms of glycopyrronium bromide). 
The other ingredients are: ethanol anhydrous (see section 2), hydrochloric acid, propellant: norflurane. 
What Trimbow looks like and contents of the pack 
Trimbow is a pressurised inhalation, solution. 
Trimbow comes in a pressurised container (coated aluminium), with a metering valve. The pressurised 
container is inserted in a plastic inhaler. This incorporates a mouthpiece provided with a plastic 
protective cap, and either a dose counter (containers with 60 and 120 puffs) or a dose indicator 
(containers with 180 puffs). 
Each pack contains one pressurised container either providing 60 puffs, 120 puffs or 180 puffs. 
Additional there are multipacks containing either 240 puffs (2 pressurised containers with 120 puffs, 
each) or 360 puffs (3 pressurised containers with 120 puffs, each). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
Manufacturer 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via San Leonardo 96 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
Chiesi SAS 
2 rue des Docteurs Alberto et Paolo Chiesi 
41260 La Chaussée Saint Victor 
France 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Gonzagagasse 16/16 
1010 Wien  
Austria 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Chiesi sa/nv  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 788 42 00 
България 
Chiesi Bulgaria EOOD  
Teл.: + 359 29201205 
Česká republika 
Chiesi CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 261221745 
Danmark 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Tlf: + 46 8 753 35 20 
Deutschland 
Chiesi GmbH  
Tel: + 49 40 89724-0 
Eesti 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Ελλάδα 
Chiesi Hellas AEBE  
Τηλ: + 30 210 6179763 
España 
Chiesi España, S.A.U.  
Tel: + 34 93 494 8000 
Lietuva 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Chiesi sa/nv  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 788 42 00 
Magyarország 
Chiesi Hungary Kft.  
Tel.: + 36-1-429 1060 
Malta 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Nederland 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals B.V.  
Tel: + 31 88 501 64 00 
Norge 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Tlf: + 46 8 753 35 20 
Österreich 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Polska 
Chiesi Poland Sp. z.o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 620 1421 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Chiesi S.A.S.  
Tél: + 33 1 47688899 
Hrvatska 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Ireland 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Ísland 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Sími: +46 8 753 35 20 
Italia 
Chiesi Italia S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Κύπρος 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Τηλ: + 39 0521 2791 
Latvija 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Portugal 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
România 
Chiesi Romania S.R.L.  
Tel: + 40 212023642 
Slovenija 
Chiesi Slovenija d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386-1-43 00 901 
Slovenská republika 
Chiesi Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: + 421 259300060 
Suomi/Finland 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Puh/Tel: +46 8 753 35 20 
Sverige 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Tel: +46 8 753 35 20 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Trimbow 172 micrograms/5 micrograms/9 micrograms pressurised inhalation, solution 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Trimbow is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Trimbow 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Trimbow 
Possible side effects 
How to store Trimbow 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Trimbow is and what it is used for 
Trimbow is a medicine to help breathing that contains the three active substances: 
• 
• 
• 
beclometasone dipropionate,  
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and  
glycopyrronium.  
Beclometasone dipropionate belongs to a group of medicines called corticosteroids which act to 
reduce the swelling and irritation in your lungs. 
Formoterol and glycopyrronium are medicines called long-acting bronchodilators. They act in 
different ways to relax the muscles in your airways, helping to open the airways wider and allowing 
you to breathe more easily. 
Regular treatment with these three active substances helps to relieve and prevent symptoms such as 
shortness of breath, wheezing and cough in adult patients with obstructive lung disease.  
Trimbow is used for the regular treatment of asthma in adults. 
Trimbow can reduce exacerbations (flare-ups) of asthma symptoms. Asthma is a serious, long-term 
disease where the muscles surrounding the airways become tight (bronchoconstriction) and swollen 
and irritated (inflammation). Symptoms come and go and include shortness of breath, wheezing, chest 
tightness and cough.  
You should use Trimbow every day and not only when you have breathing problems or other 
symptoms of asthma. This will ensure that it controls your asthma properly. Do not use this medicine 
to relieve a sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you use Trimbow 
Do not use Trimbow 
If you are allergic to beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate dihydrate and/or 
glycopyrronium or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Trimbow is used as a maintenance treatment for your obstructive lung disease. Do not use this 
medicine to treat a sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
If your breathing gets worse 
If you develop worsening shortness of breath or wheezing (breathing with a whistling sound), straight 
after inhaling your medicine, stop using Trimbow inhaler and use your quick-acting “reliever” inhaler 
straightaway. You should contact your doctor straightaway. Your doctor will assess your symptoms 
and if necessary may start you on a different treatment.  
See also section 4, “Possible side effects”. 
If your lung disease gets worse 
If your symptoms get worse or are difficult to control (e.g. if you are using a separate “reliever” 
inhaler more frequently) or if your “reliever” inhaler does not improve your symptoms, see your 
doctor immediately. Your lung disease may be getting worse and your doctor may need to prescribe 
different treatment. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Trimbow: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you have any heart problems, such as angina (heart pain, pain in the chest), a recent heart 
attack (myocardial infarction), heart failure, narrowing of the arteries around your heart 
(coronary heart disease), disease of your heart valves or any other abnormalities of your heart or 
if you have a condition known as hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (also known as 
HOCM, a condition where the heart muscle is abnormal). 
if you have disorders of your heart rhythm such as irregular heart rate, a fast pulse rate or 
palpitations or if you have been told that your heart trace (ECG) is abnormal. 
if you have narrowing of the arteries (also known as arteriosclerosis), if you have high blood 
pressure or if you have an aneurysm (abnormal bulging of the blood vessel wall). 
if you have an overactive thyroid gland. 
if you have low blood levels of potassium (hypokalaemia). The combination of Trimbow with 
some other lung medicines or medicines such as diuretics (medicines that make the body lose 
water, to treat heart disease or high blood pressure), can cause a sharp fall in your blood level of 
potassium. Therefore, your doctor may wish to measure the potassium levels in your blood from 
time to time. 
if you have any disease of your liver or kidneys. 
if you have diabetes. High doses of formoterol may increase your blood glucose and therefore 
you may need to have extra blood tests to check your blood sugar when you start using this 
medicine, and from time to time during treatment. 
if you have a tumour of the adrenal gland (known as a phaeochromocytoma). 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you are due to have an anaesthetic. Depending on the type of anaesthetic, it may be necessary 
to stop using Trimbow at least 12 hours before the anaesthesia. 
if you are being, or have ever been, treated for tuberculosis (TB) or if you have a chest 
infection. 
if you have an eye problem called narrow-angle glaucoma. 
if you have difficulty passing urine.  
if you have an infection of the mouth or throat. 
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor before you use Trimbow.  
If you have or have had any medical problems or any allergies or if you are not sure if you can use 
Trimbow, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using the inhaler.  
If you are already using Trimbow  
If you are using Trimbow or high doses of other inhaled corticosteroids over long periods and you 
come into a situation of stress (e.g. being taken to hospital after an accident, having a serious injury or 
before an operation) you may need more of this medicine. In such a situation, your doctor may need to 
increase your dose of corticosteroids to cope with the stress and may prescribe them as tablets or 
injections. 
Contact your doctor if you experience blurred vision or other visual disturbances. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents below the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and Trimbow 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines similar to Trimbow used for your lung disease.  
Some medicines may increase the effects of Trimbow and your doctor may wish to monitor you 
carefully if you are taking these medicines (including some medicines for HIV: ritonavir, cobicistat). 
Do not use this medicine with a beta-blocker medicine (used for treating certain heart problems 
such as angina or for reducing blood pressure) unless your doctor has chosen a beta-blocker that does 
not affect your breathing. Beta-blockers (including beta-blocker eye-drops) may reduce the effects of 
formoterol or make it not work at all. On the other hand, using other beta2-agonist medicines (which 
work in the same way as formoterol) may increase the effects of formoterol. 
Using Trimbow together with:  
• 
• 
medicines for treating  
-  abnormal heart rhythms (quinidine, disopyramide, procainamide),  
-  allergic reactions (antihistamines),  
-  symptoms of depression or mental disorders such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (for 
example phenelzine and isocarboxazid), tricyclic antidepressants (for example amitriptyline 
and imipramine), phenothiazines  
can cause some changes in the electrocardiogram (ECG, heart trace). They may also increase 
the risk of disturbances of heart rhythm (ventricular arrhythmias). 
medicines for treating Parkinson’s disease (levodopa), to treat an underactive thyroid gland 
(levothyroxine), medicines containing oxytocin (which causes uterine contraction) and alcohol 
can increase the chances of formoterol side effects on the heart. 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including medicines with similar properties like 
furazolidone and procarbazine, used to treat mental disorders, can cause a rise in blood pressure. 
medicines for treating heart disease (digoxin) can cause a fall in your blood potassium level. 
This may increase the likelihood of abnormal heart rhythms. 
other medicines used to treat obstructive lung disease (theophylline, aminophylline or 
corticosteroids) and diuretics may also cause a fall in your potassium level.  
some anaesthetics can increase the risk of abnormal heart rhythms. 
Disulfiram, a medicine used in the treatment of people with alcoholism (drinking problems) or 
metronidazole, an antibiotic to treat infection in your body can cause side effects (e.g. feeling 
sick, being sick, stomach pain) due to the small amount of alcohol in Trimbow. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine.  
You should only use Trimbow during pregnancy if you are advised to do so by your doctor. It is 
preferable to avoid the use of Trimbow during labour due to the inhibitory effects of formoterol on 
uterine contractions. 
You should not use Trimbow during breast-feeding. You and your doctor must make a decision 
whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Trimbow therapy taking into 
account the benefit of breast-feeding for your child and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Driving and using machines 
Trimbow is unlikely to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
Trimbow contains ethanol 
Trimbow contains 8.856 mg of alcohol (ethanol) in each actuation, which is equivalent to 17.712 mg 
per dose of two actuations. The amount in two actuations of this medicine is equivalent to less than 
1 ml of wine or beer. The small amount of alcohol in this medicine will not have any noticeable 
effects. 
3. 
How to use Trimbow 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
The recommended dose is two puffs in the morning and two puffs in the evening.  
Do not use more than your doctor tells you to use. 
You should use Trimbow every day, even when your asthma is not troubling you. 
Do not use this medicine to relieve a sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
If you feel that the medicine is not very effective, talk to your doctor. 
If you have been using a different inhaler containing beclometasone dipropionate previously, ask your 
doctor for advice, as the effective dose of beclometasone dipropionate in Trimbow for the treatment of 
your obstructive lung disease may be lower than that of some other inhalers.   
Route of administration 
Trimbow is for inhalation use. 
You should inhale the medicine through your mouth and this takes the medicine directly into your 
lungs. 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine is contained in a pressurised container in a plastic inhaler with a mouthpiece.  
Trimbow is available in two container sizes:  
• 
a container providing 60 puffs 
• 
a container providing 120 puffs. 
There is a counter on the back of the inhaler, which tells you how many doses are left. Each time you 
press the pressurised container, a puff of medicine is released and the counter will count down by one. 
Take care not to drop the inhaler as this may cause the counter to count down. 
Testing your inhaler 
Before using the inhaler for the first time, you should test your inhaler to make sure that it is working 
properly, as follows.  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Depending on the container size prescribed to you, check that the dose counter reads 61 or 121 
Remove the protective cap from the mouthpiece 
Hold your inhaler upright with the mouthpiece at the bottom  
Direct the mouthpiece away from yourself and firmly press the pressurised container to release 
one puff 
Check the dose counter. If you are testing your inhaler for the first time, the counter should 
read:  
5. 
60 
- when using the container 
providing 60 puffs 
120 
- when using the container 
providing 120 puffs 
How to use your inhaler 
Stand or sit up when inhaling.  
IMPORTANT: Do not perform steps 2 to 5 too quickly.  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
Remove the protective cap from the mouthpiece and check that the mouthpiece is clean and free 
from dust and dirt. 
Breathe out as slowly and deeply as possible, in order to empty your lungs. 
Hold the inhaler upright with the mouthpiece at the bottom and place the mouthpiece between 
your teeth without biting it. Then place your lips around the mouthpiece, with the tongue flat 
under it. 
Breathe in slowly and deeply through your mouth to fill your lungs with air (this should take 
about 4–5 seconds). Just after starting to breathe in, press down firmly on the top of the 
pressurised container to release one puff.  
Hold your breath for as long as possible and, finally, remove the inhaler from your mouth and 
breathe out slowly. Do not breathe out into the inhaler. 
Check that the dose counter has moved down by one. 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the second puff, keep the inhaler in the upright position for about half a minute, then repeat steps 2 
to 5. 
If you see 'mist' coming from the top of the inhaler or the sides of your mouth, this means that 
Trimbow will not be getting into your lungs as it should. Take another puff, following the instructions 
starting again from step 2. 
After use, replace the protective cap. 
To prevent a fungal infection in the mouth and throat, rinse your mouth or gargle with water without 
swallowing it or brush your teeth after each use of your inhaler. 
When to get a new inhaler 
You should get a replacement when the counter shows the number 20. Stop using the inhaler when the 
counter shows 0, as any medicine left in the inhaler may not be enough to give you a full puff. 
If you have a weak grip, it may be easier to hold the inhaler with both hands: hold the upper part of the 
inhaler with both index fingers and its lower part with both thumbs. 
If you find it difficult to use the inhaler while starting to breathe in, you may use the AeroChamber 
Plus spacer device. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about this device. 
It is important that you read the package leaflet which is supplied with your AeroChamber Plus spacer 
device and that you carefully follow the instructions on how to use the AeroChamber Plus spacer 
device and how to clean it. 
Cleaning of the Trimbow inhaler 
You should clean your inhaler once a week.  
1. 
Do not remove the pressurised container from the inhaler and do not use water or other liquids to 
clean your inhaler. 
2. 
Remove the protective cap from the mouthpiece by pulling it away from your inhaler. 
3.  Wipe inside and outside of the mouthpiece and the inhaler with a clean, dry cloth or tissue. 
4. 
Replace the mouthpiece cap. 
If you use more Trimbow than you should 
It is important that you take your dose as advised by your doctor. Do not exceed your prescribed dose 
without talking to your doctor. 
If you use more Trimbow than you should, side effects, as described in section 4, may occur.  
Tell your doctor if you have used more Trimbow than you should and if you experience any of these 
symptoms. Your doctor may wish to carry out some blood tests. 
If you forget to use Trimbow 
Use it as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, do not take the dose you have 
missed, but just take the next dose at the correct time. Do not double the dose. 
If you stop using Trimbow 
It is important to use Trimbow every day. Do not stop using Trimbow or lower the dose, even if you are 
feeling better or you have no symptoms. If you want to do this, talk to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
There is a risk of worsening shortness of breath and wheezing immediately after using Trimbow and 
this is known as paradoxical bronchospasm (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people). If this occurs you 
should stop using Trimbow and use your quick-acting “reliever” inhaler straightaway to treat the 
shortness of breath and wheezing. You should contact your doctor straightaway. 
Tell your doctor immediately 
• 
if you experience any allergic reactions like skin allergies, hives, skin itching, skin rash (may 
affect up to 1 in 100 people), reddening of the skin, swelling of the skin or mucous membranes 
especially of the eyes, face, lips and throat (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people). 
if you experience eye pain or discomfort, temporary blurring of vision, visual halos or coloured 
images in association with red eyes. These may be signs of an acute attack of narrow-angle 
glaucoma (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people). 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have any of the following while using Trimbow as they could be symptoms of 
a lung infection (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
fever or chills 
increased mucus production, change in mucus colour 
increased cough or increased breathing difficulties. 
Possible side effects are listed below according to their frequency.  
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
sore throat 
runny or stuffy nose and sneezing 
fungal infections of the mouth. Rinsing your mouth or gargling with water and brushing your 
teeth immediately after inhalation may help to prevent these side effects 
hoarseness 
headache 
urinary tract infection. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
flu 
inflammation of the sinuses 
itchy, runny or blocked nose 
fungal infections of the throat or of 
the food pipe (oesophagus)  
fungal infections of the vagina 
restlessness 
trembling 
dizziness 
abnormal or reduced sense of taste 
numbness 
inflammation of the ear 
irregular heart beat 
changes in the electrocardiogram 
(heart trace) 
unusually fast heart beat and 
disorders of the heart rhythm 
palpitations (feeling of abnormal 
beating of the heart) 
reddening of the face 
increased blood flow to some tissues 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
irritation of the throat 
nose bleeds 
redness of the pharynx 
dry mouth 
diarrhoea 
swallowing difficulties 
feeling sick 
upset stomach 
stomach discomfort after meals 
burning sensation of the lips 
tooth decay 
skin rash, hives, skin itching 
inflammation of the mucous membrane of the 
mouth with or without ulcers 
increased sweating 
muscle cramps and pain in muscles 
pain in arms or legs 
pain in muscles, bones or joints of the chest 
tiredness 
increase of blood pressure 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the body 
asthma attack 
cough and productive cough 
• 
• 
• 
• 
fall in the level of some constituents of your 
blood: of certain white blood cells called 
granulocytes, of potassium or of cortisol 
increase in the level of some constituents of your 
blood: glucose, C-reactive protein, number of 
platelets, insulin, free fatty acid or ketones. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
fungal infections of the chest 
• 
decreased appetite 
• 
sleep disorders (sleeping too little or too 
long) 
crushing chest pain 
sensation of a missed heart beat or of extra 
heart beats, unusually slow heart beat 
worsening of asthma 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leakage of blood from a vessel into the 
tissues surrounding it 
decrease of blood pressure 
weakness 
pain in the back of the mouth and throat 
inflammation of the pharynx 
dry throat 
painful and frequent urination 
difficulty and pain when passing urine 
inflammation of the kidneys. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low level in the number of certain blood cells called platelets 
feeling breathless or short of breath 
swelling of the hands and feet 
growth retardation in children and adolescents. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
blurred vision. 
Using high-dose inhaled corticosteroids over a long time can cause in very rare cases effects on 
the body: 
• 
• 
• 
problems with how your adrenal glands work (adrenal suppression) 
decrease in bone mineral density (thinning of the bones) 
clouding of the lens of your eyes (cataract). 
Trimbow does not contain a high-dose inhaled corticosteroid, but your doctor may wish to measure the 
cortisol levels in your blood from time to time. 
The following side effects can also occur with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids used over a long time, 
but the frequency is not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) at present: 
• 
• 
These events are more likely to occur in children. 
depression 
feeling worried, nervous, over-excited or irritable. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Trimbow 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not freeze.  
Do not expose to temperatures higher than 50°C.  
Do not pierce the pressurised container. 
Prior to dispensing: 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
After dispensing (receiving this medicine from your pharmacist): 
60 actuation pressurised container:  
Store the inhaler below 25°C for a maximum of 
2 months.  
120 actuation pressurised container 
• 
• 
from a single pack:  
from a multipack:  
Store the inhaler below 25°C for a maximum of 
3 months.  
Store the multipack in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Before use, take one inhaler out of the refrigerator for 
some minutes to allow for the solution to warm up. 
After use, store the inhaler below 25°C for a 
maximum of 3 months. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Content of the pack and other information 
What Trimbow contains 
The active substances are: beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 
glycopyrronium. 
Each delivered dose (the dose leaving the mouthpiece) contains 172 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 5 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium (as 
11 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide). 
Each metered dose (the dose leaving the valve) contains 200 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 6 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium 
(as 12.5 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide). 
The other ingredients are: ethanol anhydrous (see section 2), hydrochloric acid, propellant: norflurane. 
What Trimbow looks like and contents of the pack 
Trimbow is a pressurised inhalation, solution. 
Trimbow comes in a pressurised container (coated aluminium), with a metering valve. The pressurised 
container is inserted in a plastic inhaler. This incorporates a mouthpiece provided with a plastic 
protective cap and a dose counter (containers with 60 and 120 puffs). 
Each pack contains one pressurised container either providing 60 puffs, or 120 puffs. Additional there 
are multipacks containing either 240 puffs (2 pressurised containers with 120 puffs, each) or 360 puffs 
(3 pressurised containers with 120 puffs, each). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
Manufacturer 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via San Leonardo 96 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
Chiesi SAS 
2 rue des Docteurs Alberto et Paolo Chiesi 
41260 La Chaussée Saint Victor 
France 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Gonzagagasse 16/16 
1010 Wien  
Austria 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Chiesi sa/nv  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 788 42 00 
България 
Chiesi Bulgaria EOOD  
Teл.: + 359 29201205 
Česká republika 
Chiesi CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 261221745 
Danmark 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Tlf: + 46 8 753 35 20 
Deutschland 
Chiesi GmbH  
Tel: + 49 40 89724-0 
Eesti 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Ελλάδα 
Chiesi Hellas AEBE  
Τηλ: + 30 210 6179763 
España 
Chiesi España, S.A.U.  
Tel: + 34 93 494 8000 
Lietuva 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Chiesi sa/nv  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 788 42 00 
Magyarország 
Chiesi Hungary Kft.  
Tel.: + 36-1-429 1060 
Malta 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Nederland 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals B.V.  
Tel: + 31 88 501 64 00 
Norge 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Tlf: + 46 8 753 35 20 
Österreich 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Polska 
Chiesi Poland Sp. z.o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 620 1421 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Chiesi S.A.S.  
Tél: + 33 1 47688899 
Hrvatska 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Ireland 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Ísland 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Sími: +46 8 753 35 20 
Italia 
Chiesi Italia S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Κύπρος 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Τηλ: + 39 0521 2791 
Latvija 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Portugal 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
România 
Chiesi Romania S.R.L.  
Tel: + 40 212023642 
Slovenija 
Chiesi Slovenija d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386-1-43 00 901 
Slovenská republika 
Chiesi Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: + 421 259300060 
Suomi/Finland 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Puh/Tel: +46 8 753 35 20 
Sverige 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Tel: +46 8 753 35 20 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Trimbow 88 micrograms/5 micrograms/9 micrograms inhalation powder 
beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/glycopyrronium 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Trimbow is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Trimbow 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Trimbow 
Possible side effects 
How to store Trimbow 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Trimbow is and what it is used for 
Trimbow is a medicine to help breathing that contains the three active substances: 
• 
• 
• 
beclometasone dipropionate,  
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and  
glycopyrronium.  
Beclometasone dipropionate belongs to a group of medicines called corticosteroids which act to 
reduce the swelling and irritation in your lungs. 
Formoterol and glycopyrronium are medicines called long-acting bronchodilators. They act in 
different ways to relax the muscles in your airways, helping to open the airways wider and allowing 
you to breathe more easily. 
Regular treatment with these three active substances helps to relieve and prevent symptoms such as 
shortness of breath, wheezing and cough in adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD). Trimbow can reduce exacerbations (flare-ups) of COPD symptoms. COPD is a serious long-
term disease in which the airways become blocked and air sacs inside the lungs become damaged, 
leading to difficulty breathing. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Trimbow 
Do not use Trimbow 
If you are allergic to beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate dihydrate and/or 
glycopyrronium or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Trimbow is used as a maintenance treatment for your obstructive lung disease. Do not use this 
medicine to treat a sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If your breathing gets worse 
If you develop worsening shortness of breath or wheezing (breathing with a whistling sound), straight 
after inhaling your medicine, stop using Trimbow inhaler and use your quick-acting “reliever” inhaler 
straightaway. You should contact your doctor straightaway. Your doctor will assess your symptoms 
and if necessary may start you on a different treatment.  
See also section 4, “Possible side effects”. 
If your lung disease gets worse 
If your symptoms get worse or are difficult to control (e.g. if you are using a separate “reliever” 
inhaler more frequently) or if your “reliever” inhaler does not improve your symptoms, see your 
doctor immediately. Your lung disease may be getting worse and your doctor may need to prescribe 
different treatment. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Trimbow: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you have any heart problems, such as angina (heart pain, pain in the chest), a recent heart 
attack (myocardial infarction), heart failure, narrowing of the arteries around your heart 
(coronary heart disease), disease of your heart valves or any other abnormalities of your heart or 
if you have a condition known as hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (also known as 
HOCM, a condition where the heart muscle is abnormal). 
if you have disorders of your heart rhythm such as irregular heart rate, a fast pulse rate or 
palpitations or if you have been told that your heart trace (ECG) is abnormal. 
if you have narrowing of the arteries (also known as arteriosclerosis), if you have high blood 
pressure or if you have an aneurysm (abnormal bulging of the blood vessel wall). 
if you have an overactive thyroid gland. 
if you have low blood levels of potassium (hypokalaemia). The combination of Trimbow with 
some other lung medicines or medicines such as diuretics (medicines that make the body lose 
water, to treat heart disease or high blood pressure), can cause a sharp fall in your blood level of 
potassium. Therefore, your doctor may wish to measure the potassium levels in your blood from 
time to time. 
if you have any disease of your liver or kidneys. 
if you have diabetes. High doses of formoterol may increase your blood glucose and therefore 
you may need to have extra blood tests to check your blood sugar when you start using this 
medicine, and from time to time during treatment. 
if you have a tumour of the adrenal gland (known as a phaeochromocytoma). 
if you are due to have an anaesthetic. Depending on the type of anaesthetic, it may be necessary 
to stop using Trimbow at least 12 hours before the anaesthesia. 
if you are being, or have ever been, treated for tuberculosis (TB) or if you have a chest 
infection. 
if you have an eye problem called narrow-angle glaucoma. 
if you have difficulty passing urine.  
if you have an infection of the mouth or throat. 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor before you use Trimbow.  
If you have or have had any medical problems or any allergies or if you are not sure if you can use 
Trimbow, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using the inhaler.  
If you are already using Trimbow  
If you are using Trimbow or high doses of other inhaled corticosteroids over long periods and you 
come into a situation of stress (e.g. being taken to hospital after an accident, having a serious injury or 
before an operation) you may need more of this medicine. In such a situation, your doctor may need to 
increase your dose of corticosteroids to cope with the stress and may prescribe them as tablets or 
injections. 
Contact your doctor if you experience blurred vision or other visual disturbances. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents below the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and Trimbow 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines similar to Trimbow used for your lung disease.  
Some medicines may increase the effects of Trimbow and your doctor may wish to monitor you 
carefully if you are taking these medicines (including some medicines for HIV: ritonavir, cobicistat). 
Do not use this medicine with a beta-blocker medicine (used for treating certain heart problems 
such as angina or for reducing blood pressure) unless your doctor has chosen a beta-blocker that does 
not affect your breathing. Beta-blockers (including beta-blocker eye-drops) may reduce the effects of 
formoterol or make it not work at all. On the other hand, using other beta2-agonist medicines (which 
work in the same way as formoterol) may increase the effects of formoterol. 
Using Trimbow together with:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
medicines for treating  
-  abnormal heart rhythms (quinidine, disopyramide, procainamide),  
-  allergic reactions (antihistamines),  
-  symptoms of depression or mental disorders such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (for 
example phenelzine and isocarboxazid), tricyclic antidepressants (for example amitriptyline 
and imipramine), phenothiazines  
can cause some changes in the electrocardiogram (ECG, heart trace). They may also increase 
the risk of disturbances of heart rhythm (ventricular arrhythmias). 
medicines for treating Parkinson’s disease (levodopa), to treat an underactive thyroid gland 
(levothyroxine), medicines containing oxytocin (which causes uterine contraction) and alcohol 
can increase the chances of formoterol side effects on the heart. 
monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including medicines with similar properties like 
furazolidone and procarbazine, used to treat mental disorders, can cause a rise in blood pressure. 
medicines for treating heart disease (digoxin) can cause a fall in your blood potassium level. 
This may increase the likelihood of abnormal heart rhythms. 
other medicines used to treat obstructive lung disease (theophylline, aminophylline or 
corticosteroids) and diuretics may also cause a fall in your potassium level.  
some anaesthetics can increase the risk of abnormal heart rhythms. 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine.  
You should only use Trimbow during pregnancy if you are advised to do so by your doctor. It is 
preferable to avoid the use of Trimbow during labour due to the inhibitory effects of formoterol on 
uterine contractions. 
You should not use Trimbow during breast-feeding. You and your doctor must make a decision 
whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Trimbow therapy taking into 
account the benefit of breast-feeding for your child and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Driving and using machines 
Trimbow is unlikely to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
Trimbow contains lactose 
Lactose contains small amounts of milk proteins, which may cause allergic reactions. 
3. 
How to use Trimbow 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
The recommended dose is two inhalations in the morning and two inhalations in the evening.  
If you feel that the medicine is not very effective, talk to your doctor. 
If you have been using a different inhaler containing beclometasone dipropionate previously, ask your 
doctor for advice, as the effective dose of beclometasone dipropionate in Trimbow for the treatment of 
your obstructive lung disease may be lower than that of some other inhalers.   
Route of administration 
Trimbow is for inhalation use. 
You should inhale the medicine through your mouth and this takes the medicine directly into your 
lungs. 
Instructions for use 
For information on the contents of the pack, see section 6. 
If the pack contents are not the same as described in section 6, return your inhaler to the person 
who supplied it and get a new one. 
• 
Do not remove the inhaler from the pouch if you do not intend to use it immediately. 
• 
Only use your inhaler as indicated. 
• 
Keep the cover closed until you need to take a dose from your inhaler. 
•  When you are not using your inhaler keep it in a clean and dry place.  
• 
Do not attempt to take your inhaler apart for any reason. 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  Key features of your inhaler 
Dose 
counter 
window 
Cover 
Mouthpiece 
Air 
Vent 
Taking a dose from your inhaler requires three steps: Open, Inhale, Close 
B. 
Before using a new inhaler 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Open the pouch and take out your inhaler.  
o 
Do not use your inhaler if the pouch is not sealed or it is damaged – return it to the 
person who supplied it and get a new one. 
Use the label on the box to write down the date you open the pouch. 
o 
Inspect your inhaler. 
o 
If your inhaler looks broken or damaged, return it to the person who supplied it and 
get a new one. 
Check the Dose Counter Window. If your inhaler is new you will see “120” in the 
Dose Counter Window.  
o 
Do not use a new inhaler if the number shown is less than “120” – return it to the 
person who supplied it and get a new one. 
C.  How to use your inhaler 
C.1. Open 
1. 
2. 
Hold your inhaler firmly in the upright position. 
Check the number of doses left: any number between “1” and “120” shows that 
there are doses left. 
o 
If the Dose Counter Window shows “0” there are no doses left – dispose of your 
inhaler and get a new one.  
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Open the cover fully. 
4. 
Before inhaling breathe out as far as is comfortable. 
Do not breathe out through your inhaler. 
o 
C.2. Inhale 
Whenever possible, stand or sit in an upright position when inhaling. 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
• 
Lift your inhaler up, bring it to your mouth and place your lips around the 
mouthpiece. 
o 
o 
Do not cover the air vent when holding your inhaler.  
Do not inhale through the air vent. 
Take a forceful and deep breath through your mouth.  
o 
o 
o 
o 
You may notice a taste when you take your dose. 
You may hear or feel a click when you take your dose. 
Do not inhale through your nose. 
Do not remove your inhaler from your lips during the inhalation. 
Remove your inhaler from your mouth. 
Hold your breath for 5 to 10 seconds or as long as is comfortable. 
Breathe out slowly. 
o 
Do not breathe out through your inhaler. 
If you are not sure you are receiving your dose correctly contact your pharmacist or 
doctor. 
C.3. Close  
1.  Move your inhaler back to the upright position and close the cover fully. 
2. 
Check that the dose counter has gone down by one. 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you are not sure the dose counter has gone down by one after inhalation, wait until your 
next scheduled dose and take this as normal. Do not take an extra dose. 
3. 
If you need to take another dose, repeat steps C.1 to C.3. 
D.  Cleaning 
• 
• 
Normally, it is not necessary to clean your inhaler. 
If necessary, you may clean your inhaler after use with a dry cloth or tissue. 
o 
Do not clean your inhaler with water or other liquids. Keep it dry.  
If you use more Trimbow than you should 
It is important that you take your dose as advised by your doctor. Do not exceed your prescribed dose 
without talking to your doctor. 
If you use more Trimbow than you should, side effects, as described in section 4, may occur.  
Tell your doctor if you have used more Trimbow than you should and if you experience any of these 
symptoms. Your doctor may wish to carry out some blood tests. 
If you forget to use Trimbow 
Use it as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, do not take the dose you have 
missed, but just take the next dose at the correct time. Do not double the dose. 
If you stop using Trimbow 
It is important to use Trimbow every day. Do not stop using Trimbow or lower the dose, even if you are 
feeling better or you have no symptoms. If you want to do this, talk to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
There is a risk of worsening shortness of breath and wheezing immediately after using Trimbow and 
this is known as paradoxical bronchospasm (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people). If this occurs you 
should stop using Trimbow and use your quick-acting “reliever” inhaler straightaway to treat the 
shortness of breath and wheezing. You should contact your doctor straightaway. 
Tell your doctor immediately 
• 
if you experience any allergic reactions like skin allergies, hives, skin itching, skin rash (may 
affect up to 1 in 100 people), reddening of the skin, swelling of the skin or mucous membranes 
especially of the eyes, face, lips and throat (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people). 
if you experience eye pain or discomfort, temporary blurring of vision, visual halos or coloured 
images in association with red eyes. These may be signs of an acute attack of narrow-angle 
glaucoma (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people). 
• 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor if you have any of the following while using Trimbow as they could be symptoms of 
a lung infection (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
fever or chills 
increased mucus production, change in mucus colour 
increased cough or increased breathing difficulties. 
Possible side effects are listed below according to their frequency.  
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
sore throat 
runny or stuffy nose and sneezing 
fungal infections of the mouth. Rinsing your mouth or gargling with water and brushing your 
teeth immediately after inhalation may help to prevent these side effects 
hoarseness 
headache 
urinary tract infection. 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
flu 
inflammation of the sinuses 
itchy, runny or blocked nose 
fungal infections of the throat or of the 
food pipe (oesophagus)  
fungal infections of the vagina 
restlessness 
trembling 
dizziness 
abnormal or reduced sense of taste 
numbness 
inflammation of the ear 
irregular heart beat 
changes in the electrocardiogram (heart 
trace) 
unusually fast heart beat and disorders of 
the heart rhythm 
palpitations (feeling of abnormal beating of 
the heart) 
reddening of the face 
increased blood flow to some tissues in the 
body 
asthma attack 
cough and productive cough 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
irritation of the throat 
nose bleeds 
redness of the pharynx 
dry mouth 
diarrhoea 
swallowing difficulties 
feeling sick 
upset stomach 
stomach discomfort after meals 
burning sensation of the lips 
tooth decay 
skin rash, hives, skin itching 
inflammation of the mucous membrane of 
the mouth with or without ulcers 
increased sweating 
muscle cramps and pain in muscles 
pain in arms or legs 
pain in muscles, bones or joints of the chest 
tiredness 
increase of blood pressure 
fall in the level of some constituents of your 
blood: of certain white blood cells called 
granulocytes, of potassium or of cortisol 
increase in the level of some constituents of 
your blood: glucose, C-reactive protein, 
number of platelets, insulin, free fatty acid 
or ketones. 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
fungal infections of the chest 
• 
decreased appetite 
• 
sleep disorders (sleeping too little or too 
long) 
crushing chest pain 
sensation of a missed heart beat or of extra 
heart beats, unusually slow heart beat 
worsening of asthma 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leakage of blood from a vessel into the 
tissues surrounding it 
decrease of blood pressure 
weakness 
pain in the back of the mouth and throat 
inflammation of the pharynx 
dry throat 
painful and frequent urination 
difficulty and pain when passing urine 
inflammation of the kidneys. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low level in the number of certain blood cells called platelets 
feeling breathless or short of breath 
swelling of the hands and feet 
growth retardation in children and adolescents. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
blurred vision. 
Using high-dose inhaled corticosteroids over a long time can cause in very rare cases effects on 
the body: 
• 
• 
• 
problems with how your adrenal glands work (adrenal suppression) 
decrease in bone mineral density (thinning of the bones) 
clouding of the lens of your eyes (cataract). 
Trimbow does not contain a high-dose inhaled corticosteroid, but your doctor may wish to measure the 
cortisol levels in your blood from time to time. 
The following side effects can also occur with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids used over a long time, 
but the frequency is not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) at present: 
• 
• 
These events are more likely to occur in children. 
depression 
feeling worried, nervous, over-excited or irritable. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Trimbow 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
Do not store above 25°C. 
Keep the inhaler in the original package in order to protect from moisture and only remove from the 
pouch immediately before first use. 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After first opening the pouch the medicine should be used within 6 weeks and stored in a dry place. 
Use the adhesive label on the outer carton to write down the date you open the pouch and stick this 
label to the bottom of the inhaler. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Content of the pack and other information 
What Trimbow contains 
The active substances are: beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 
glycopyrronium. 
Each delivered dose (the dose leaving the mouthpiece) contains 88 micrograms of beclometasone 
dipropionate, 5 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 9 micrograms of glycopyrronium (as 
11 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide). 
Each metered dose contains 100 micrograms of beclometasone dipropionate, 6 micrograms of 
formoterol fumarate dihydrate and 10 micrograms of glycopyrronium (as 12.5 micrograms of 
glycopyrronium bromide). 
The other ingredients are: lactose monohydrate (see section 2) and magnesium stearate. 
What Trimbow looks like and contents of the pack 
Trimbow is a white to almost white inhalation powder.  
It is provided in a white plastic inhaler called NEXThaler with a grey mouthpiece cover and a counter 
for the inhalations.  
Each inhaler is packed in a sealed protective pouch. 
Trimbow is available in packs containing one inhaler, and in multipacks comprising two or three 
inhalers, providing 120 inhalations each (120, 240 or 360 inhalations). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
Manufacturer 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via San Leonardo 96 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Chiesi sa/nv  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 788 42 00 
България 
Chiesi Bulgaria EOOD  
Teл.: + 359 29201205 
Lietuva 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Chiesi sa/nv  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 788 42 00 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Česká republika 
Chiesi CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 261221745 
Danmark 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Tlf: + 46 8 753 35 20 
Deutschland 
Chiesi GmbH  
Tel: + 49 40 89724-0 
Eesti 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Ελλάδα 
Chiesi Hellas AEBE  
Τηλ: + 30 210 6179763 
España 
Chiesi España, S.A.U.  
Tel: + 34 93 494 8000 
France 
Chiesi S.A.S.  
Tél: + 33 1 47688899 
Hrvatska 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Ireland 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Ísland 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Sími: +46 8 753 35 20 
Italia 
Chiesi Italia S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Κύπρος 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Τηλ: + 39 0521 2791 
Latvija 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Magyarország 
Chiesi Hungary Kft.  
Tel.: + 36-1-429 1060 
Malta 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Nederland 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals B.V.  
Tel: + 31 88 501 64 00 
Norge 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Tlf: + 46 8 753 35 20 
Österreich 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Polska 
Chiesi Poland Sp. z.o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 620 1421 
Portugal 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
România 
Chiesi Romania S.R.L.  
Tel: + 40 212023642 
Slovenija 
Chiesi Slovenija d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386-1-43 00 901 
Slovenská republika 
Chiesi Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: + 421 259300060 
Suomi/Finland 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Puh/Tel: +46 8 753 35 20 
Sverige 
Chiesi Pharma AB  
Tel: +46 8 753 35 20 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
129 
 
 
 
