PART VI:   SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN THE RISK 
MANAGEMENT PLAN for Trimbow®/ Riarify®/Trydonis® 
(Beclometasone dipropionate plus Formoterol fumarate dihydrate plus 
Glycopyrronium)      
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Trimbow®. The RMP details important risks 
of Trimbow®, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Trimbow®'s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Trimbow®'s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Trimbow® should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Trimbow® should be read in the context of all this information including 
the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Trimbow®'s 
RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what is it used for? 
Trimbow® is authorised for the following indications and strengths in the EEA: 
COPD: 
<Trimbow 87/5/9>(Pressurised Metered Dose Inhalation or pMDI)> 
<Trimbow 88/5/9(Dry Powder Inhaler or DPI)> 
Trimbow® is authorised for the maintenance treatment in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who are not adequately treated by a combination of an inhaled 
corticosteroid and a long-acting beta2-agonist or a combination of a long-acting beta2-agonist and a 
long-acting muscarinic antagonist (for effects on symptoms control and prevention of exacerbations 
(see SmPC for the full indication).  
Asthma: 
<Trimbow 87/5/9>(Pressurised Metered Dose Inhalation or pMDI)> 
Trimbow®  87/5/9  Medium  Strength  (MS)  is  authorised  for the  maintenance  treatment  of  asthma,  in 
adults not adequately controlled with a maintenance combination of a long-acting beta2-agonist and 
medium dose of inhaled corticosteroid, and who experienced one or more asthma exacerbations in the 
previous year. (see SmPC for the full indication). 
<Trimbow 172/5/9>(Pressurised Metered Dose Inhalation or pMDI)> 
Trimbow® 172/5/9 High strength (HS) is authorised for the maintenance treatment of asthma, in adults 
not adequately controlled with a maintenance combination of a long-acting beta2-agonist and high dose 
of inhaled corticosteroid, and who experienced one or more asthma exacerbations in the previous year. 
(see SmPC for further details). 
Trimbow® contains beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate dihydrate and glycopyrronium as 
active substances and is given by inhalation. 
Further  information  about the evaluation  of  Trimbow’s  benefits can  be  found in  Trimbow’s  EPAR, 
including its plain language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trimbow. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks  
Important risks of Trimbow® together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Trimbow®’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  package 
leaflet and product information addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The  authorised  pack  size  —  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks.  
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be  taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A   List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Trimbow® are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded 
as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with 
the use of Trimbow®. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing  information  refers  to information  on  the  safety  of the medicinal  product  that  is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Heart diseases and stroke (Cardio- and cerebro-vascular events) 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important Potential risk: Cardio-and cerebrovascular events  
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
It is known  that other Long Acting Muscarinic Antagonists drugs 
(LAMA)  such  as  glycopyrronium  bromide,  have  been  associated 
with effects on the heart and cerebrovascular events (stroke). During 
clinical 
cardio-and 
cerebrovascular have been reported. 
studies  with  Trimbow®, 
cases 
of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
There are many risk factors associated with coronary heart disease 
and stroke like family history, ethnicity and age.  Other risk factors 
include smoking, hypertension, high cholesterol, obesity,  physical 
inactivity, diabetes, unhealthy diets, and harmful use of alcohol. 
Routine activities to further investigate and to minimise the risk are 
necessary. In addition, information on the risk is stated in sections 
4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC and in sections 2 and 4 of the leaflet. 
In order to assess and address the important potential risk of cardio 
and  cerebrovascular  events,  a  post-authorisation  safety  study  is 
planned (PASS). The proposed PASS study is related to the long-
term  use  of  Dry  Powder  Inhaler  vs.  Pressurised  Metered  Dose 
Inhaler.  
II. C.  Post-authorisation development plan  
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Trimbow®. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
A post-authorisation safety study (PASS) is planned to perform further evaluation of the important 
potential risk of heart diseases and stroke (cardio and cerebrovascular events) for DPI dosage. 
 Study  short  name:  Multinational  database  cohort  study  to  assess  adverse  cardiovascular  and 
cerebrovascular outcomes in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease initiating a fixed triple 
therapy containing beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate and glycopyrronium administered 
via dry powder inhaler (DPI) compared to pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI).  
Purpose  of  the  study:    A  post-authorisation  safety  study  (PASS)  is  planned  to  perform  further 
evaluation  of  the  important  potential  risk  of  heart  diseases  and  stroke  (cardio  and  cerebrovascular 
events) for DPI dosage.  
Primary Objective: 
The primary objective of this study will be to assess the incidence of ‘Major Adverse Cardiovascular 
Events’ (MACEs), defined as any of the following events: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Myocardial infarction 
Stroke (ischemic and haemorrhagic stroke) 
Hospitalization due to acute coronary syndrome 
Hospitalization due to heart failure 
Secondary Objectives: 
The secondary objectives of the study will be to assess separately the incidence of each of the following 
specific events: 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Myocardial infarction  
Cerebrovascular disorders (ischemic and haemorrhagic stroke, transient ischemic attack) 
Hospitalization due to acute coronary syndrome 
Hospitalization due to heart failure 
Arrhythmias (new-sustained supraventricular and sustained ventricular) 
All-cause death 
 
