EMA/714870/2016 
EMEA/H/C/000388 
EPAR summary for the public 
Trisenox 
arsenic trioxide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Trisenox. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Trisenox. 
For practical information about using Trisenox, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Trisenox and what is it used for? 
Trisenox is used to treat adults (aged 18 years or over) with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL), a 
rare form of leukaemia (cancer of the white blood cells) caused by a genetic ‘translocation’ (when 
there is a swap of genes between two chromosomes). The translocation affects the way the white 
blood cells grow, and as a result they lack the ability to use retinoic acid (vitamin A). Patients with APL 
are normally treated with retinoids (substances derived from vitamin A).  
Trisenox is used in:  
• 
• 
Patients with newly diagnosed low or intermediate risk APL where it is used together with the 
medicine all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA).  
Patients with APL whose disease has not responded to previous treatment with a retinoid and 
cancer medicines, or when their disease has come back after this type of treatment. 
Trisenox contains the active substance arsenic trioxide. 
How is Trisenox used? 
Trisenox can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor who 
has experience in the management of patients with acute leukaemias. It is available as a concentrate 
that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. The infusion should last one to two hours, 
but it may last longer if the patient has certain side effects.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Trisenox depends on the body weight of the patient. The treatment is 
divided into 2 phases: induction and consolidation.  
During the induction phase, Trisenox is given every day until there are signs that the treatment is 
working (when the bone marrow does not contain any leukaemia cells). If this does not happen by day 
50 (for previously treated patients) or by day 60 (for newly diagnosed patients), the treatment should 
be stopped. 
During the consolidation phase, Trisenox is given once a day for five days, followed by a two-day 
break, repeated for four or five weeks. The number of times these cycles are repeated depends on 
whether patients have received previous treatment or not. For further information, see the package 
leaflet. 
How does Trisenox work? 
The active substance in Trisenox, arsenic trioxide, is a chemical that has been used in medicines for 
many years, including for the treatment of leukaemia. The way it works in this disease is not 
completely understood. It is thought to prevent the production of DNA, which is necessary for 
leukaemia cells to grow. 
What benefits of Trisenox have been shown in studies? 
Trisenox has been investigated in 159 newly diagnosed patients who had not yet received any 
treatment for APL. Trisenox was compared with an anthracycline (a type of cancer medicine), both 
taken in combination with ATRA, and the measure of effectiveness was the number of patients who did 
not experience any event (such as worsening of their disease or death) 2 years after diagnosis. 97% 
(72 out of 74) of patients treated with Trisenox did not have any event, compared with 86% (65 out of 
76) of those treated with anthracyclines. 
Trisenox has also been investigated in two studies involving a total of 52 patients with APL who had 
been previously treated with an anthracycline and a retinoid. Forty-five of the patients in the studies 
were adults. Trisenox was not compared with any other medicine in either study. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the number of patients who had complete remission. This is when there are no more 
leukaemia cells in the bone marrow and the levels of platelets and white blood cells in the blood have 
recovered. Looking at the results of these two studies together, 87% of the patients had complete 
remission (45 out of 52). On average, it took 57 days for the patients to reach complete remission. 
What are the risks associated with Trisenox? 
The most common side effects with Trisenox (seen in 1 patient in 10) are hyperglycaemia (high blood 
glucose levels), hypomagnesaemia (low blood magnesium levels), hypokalaemia (low blood potassium 
levels), paraesthesia (unusual sensations like pins and needles), dizziness, headache, tachycardia 
(rapid heartbeat), dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), differentiation syndrome (a potentially fatal 
complication of chemotherapy in patients with APL), diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea (feeling sick), 
pruritus (itching), rash, myalgia (muscle pain), pyrexia (fever), pain, fatigue (tiredness), oedema 
(swelling), prolonged QT interval on an electrocardiogram (an alteration of the electrical activity of the 
heart), and increased levels of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase (liver 
enzymes). For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Trisenox, see the package leaflet. 
Trisenox  
EMA/714870/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why is Trisenox approved? 
The CHMP decided that Trisenox’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Trisenox was originally authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’, because, as the disease is rare, 
limited information was available at the time of approval. As the company had supplied the additional 
information requested, the ‘exceptional circumstances’ ended on 10 August 2010. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Trisenox? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Trisenox have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Trisenox 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Trisenox on 5 March 2002.  
The full EPAR for Trisenox can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Trisenox, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2016.  
Trisenox  
EMA/714870/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
