SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures,  which 
have been finalised before 30 November 2004. For scientific information on procedures after this date 
please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Voisin Consulting S.A.R.L. The applicant has applied in February 2001 via the Central Procedure for 
marketing  authorisation  of  Trisenox  for  the  treatment  of  relapsed  acute  promyelocytic  leukemia  in 
adult  patients,  characterised  by  the  presence  of the  t(15;17)  translocation  and/or  the  presence  of  the 
PML/RAR-α gene. 
Acute promyelocytic leukemia 
Acute  promyelocytic  leukemia  (APL)  is  a  rare  disease,  accounting  for  10-15%  of  all  the  acute 
myelogenous leukemia in adults.  
APL is characterised by the accumulation of clonal hemopoietic precursors blocked at specific stages 
of development. APL is a rare disease with an incidence of 1,000 to 1,500 newly diagnosed patients a 
year in the United States and 700 to 800 in the European Union. 
APL is classified under the French-American-British (FAB) morphological scheme as subtype M3 of 
acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The bone marrow morphology is characterised by greater than 30% 
blasts  and  abnormal  promyelocytes;  multiple  Auer  bodies,  sometimes  in  bundles,  heavy  granulation 
obscuring the basophilic cytoplasm, and strong positive cytochemistry. 
The  disease  involves  a  typical  balanced  translocation  involving  chromosomes  15  and  17  (t15:17) 
although  exceedingly  rare  variants  of  this  leukemia  show  balanced  translocations  of  chromosomes 
11/17  and  5/17.  As  a result  of  these translocations  APL  blasts  invariably  synthesize  aberrant fusion 
forms of the retinoic receptor type alpha, PML-RARα in the case of t15:17, PLZF-RARα and NPM-
RARα  in  the  case  of  t11:17  and  t5:17,  respectively.  In  addition  the  breakpoint  of  the  t15:17 
chromosomal translocation is heterogeneous, leading to at least three molecular types of PML-RARα 
fusion  proteins.  The  PML/RARα  fusion  protein  is  considered  to  have  an  important  role  in  APL 
pathogenesis by causing a maturation block at the promyelocyte stage of myeloid differentiation. 
These molecular defects allow the classification of APL patients in two categories: all-trans-retinoic 
acid  (ATRA)-sensitive  and  ATRA-resistant.    Patients  with  the  t15:17  and  t5:17  translocations  are 
ATRA-sensitive, and those with the t11:17 translocation are resistant. 
Among other actions, this mutant protein disaggregates PML Oncogenic Domains (PODs), which are 
spherical nuclear bodies that are attached to nuclear matrix. This disorganisation of the PODs is also 
thought to play a crucial role in APL pathogenesis by causing inhibition of apoptosis mechanisms. The 
t(15;17)  translocation  may  be  evidenced  with  reverse  transcriptase-polymerase  chain  reaction  (RT-
PCR) using specific PML and RARα oligonucleotides. Depending of the RT-PCR technique used, its 
sensitivity level may vary between 1/104 and 1/106 cells. 
Hence  the  hallmark  of  APL  is  the  presence  of  abnormal  promyelocytes  either  circulating  in  the 
peripheral blood or present in bone marrow. Because of the presence of these differentiated leukaemic 
promyelocytes,  APL  is  biologically  distinct  from  other  types  of  AML  and  is  associated  with 
coagulation abnormalities including disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), plasmin-dependent 
fibrinogenolysis,  and  diffuse  proteolysis.  Coagulopathy  may  be  responsible  for  massive  fatal 
haemorrhages  potentially  exacerbated  by  chemotherapy,  adding  to  the  mortality  associated  with 
induction therapy especially in patients with high white blood cell count (WBC) at diagnosis. 
Treatment options 
The  treatment  of  newly  diagnosed  APL  patients  consists  of  two  phases:  Induction  phase  to  obtain 
remission  (defined  by  bone  marrow  clearance),  then  a  consolidation  phase.  This  initial  treatment  is 
currently followed by a maintenance treatment. 
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is considered as the APL standard treatment. The current therapeutic 
approach  is  ATRA  in  combination  with  several  cycles  of  anthracycline-based  chemotherapy.  This 
combination has significantly improved results compared to conventional chemotherapy alone. 
With first line treatment combining ATRA and anthracycline based chemotherapy (CT), about 90% of 
the patients achieve complete response (CR). Molecular complete remission rate is 15 to 20 %, and 
1/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
depends  on  the  time-schedule  of  the  RT-PCR  analysis  and  its  sensitivity  level,  and  about  30  % 
subsequently relapse. ATRA can also be used at several phases of APL treatment: as the maintenance 
of  treatment,  ATRA  possibly  combined  to  chemotherapy  can  further  reduce  the  risk  of  relapse  to 
about 15 %. 
Most of APL patients who have a first relapse after treatment with CT alone can achieve a second CR 
with  ATRA.  Patients  who  have  relapsed  after  first  line  treatment  including  ATRA  can  achieve  a 
second CR with ATRA; the response rate depends on the interval between the last administration of 
ATRA and the time of relapse. Results appear to be better when the interval is longer, but are difficult 
to evaluate precisely as CT is often rapidly added to ATRA in such circumstances. Salvage therapy 
with  ATRA  alone  (as  reported  from  MSK  historical  series)  offers  results  inferior  to  those  of  CT.  
When  CT  is  added  to  ATRA,  toxicity  is  increased  with  up  to  10  %  toxic  death  in  large  published 
series. 
With various chemotherapy regimens, patients can achieve CR (55 to 86%) according to the number 
of previous relapse(s), but toxicity is very high, and intensive chemotherapy cannot be administered in 
all cases. 
So, in patients with APL relapse, there is a clear need for treatment that would allow to achieve CR 
with tolerable toxicity, or without the toxicity of concomitant CT. 
Arsenic trioxide 
Although As2O3 is a well-known poison, it has been in medical use for a long time. In 1865, arsenic 
compounds,  in  the  form  of  potassium  arsenic,  were  already  described  for  the  treatment  of  chronic 
myelogenous  leukaemia.  Because  of  its  chronic  toxicity,  this  treatment  was  replaced  by  the 
chemotherapeutic  agent  busulfan  in  the  middle  of  the  20th  century.  After  a  large  scale  clinical 
screening, therapeutic effects were identified in some human cancers such as leukaemia, oesophageal 
carcinoma,  and  lymphoma.  The  mechanisms  of  action  underlying  the  apoptogenic  and  cyto-
differentiating action of Trisenox are still largely unknown. 
Trisenox contains arsenic trioxyde as active substance. The rationale for the development of arsenic 
trioxide  (ATO)  is  based  on  both  pharmacology  data  and  previous  human  experience  (with  another 
ATO  compound)  conducted  in  China.  ATO  seems  to  have  concentration-dependent  dual  effects  on 
leukaemic cells: induction of apoptosis at relatively high concentrations (0.5 to 2.0 µM/L) and partial 
differentiation  at  lower  concentrations  (0.1  to  0.5  µM/l).  The  reported  results  in  this  series  of  APL 
patients  that  have  relapsed  after  ATRA-anthracycline/cytarabine  combination  treatment  suggested  a 
high rate of CR, comparable to those obtained with chemotherapy. 
The clinical development program was designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ATO for the re-
induction of remission and for consolidation in APL patients who were refractory to, or had relapsed 
from, retinoid and anthracycline chemotherapy, or for whom anthracycline-based chemotherapy was 
contraindicated. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
TRISENOX 1 mg/ml, concentrate for solution for infusion, is presented as a sterile, clear, colourless 
aqueous  solution  contained  in  a  10  ml  clear  sealed  type  borosilicate  glass  ampoule.  The  product  is 
terminally sterilised. 
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  product  involves  compounding  filtration,  filling  and  terminal 
sterilisation. 
Composition 
The finished product is presented as sterile pyrogen-free solution for injection. Apart from the active 
ingredient  ATO,  the  other  excipients  are  water  for  injections,  adjusted  with  sodium  hydroxide  and 
hydrochloric acid to a pH of 8. The solution is contained in a Type I borosilicate glass ampoule. 
Active substance 
Arsenic trioxide As2O3 is a non-stoichiometric solid, prepared by roasting arsenic-containing ores and 
is  purified  by  a  re-sublimation  process.  The  ‘cubic  crystal  form’  is  used.  It  is  sparingly  soluble  in 
water although the solubility increases at pH 12.0. On dissolution in water it undergoes hydrolysis to 
arsenious acid (pKa1=9.2), one representation of which may be   
As2O3 + 3H20  2 As(OH)3. 
2/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, depending on pH, temperature, ionic strength etc., a number of arsenic-containing species 
could also be present in equilibrium in solution, possibly as the sodium salts under the slightly alkaline 
conditions  of  the  finished  product.  Therefore,  the  precise  definition  of  the  active  substance  or 
substances,  which  are  present  in  solution  in  the  product,  would  be  difficult  both  qualitatively  and 
especially quantitatively. ‘Arsenic trioxide’ may be regarded as the ‘active substance’ by conventional 
agreement  in  this  particular  case,  although  it  is  accepted  that  there  may  be  other  arsenic-containing 
species which are eventually present in solution in the finished product and which may be ultimately 
responsible for the pharmacological activity in the proposed therapeutic indication. 
Specification 
The active substance specification for arsenic trioxide As2O3 is relevant for a substance to be used in 
parenteral  products  and  comprises  tests  for  physical  appearance,  identity,  As  (III)  assay  clarity  of 
solution, residue on ignition, content of As (V), related substances (antimony, lead, etc.) particle size, 
loss on drying, microbial bioburden and endotoxin. 
Batch analyses confirm satisfactory uniformity and compliance with the agreed, justified specification. 
Stability 
Three batches of active substance have been studied under normal long-term test conditions (25 ± 2°C/60 ± 
5% RH, 100 ml glass bottles with polypropylene closures) and accelerated conditions (40 ± 2°C/75 ± 5% 
RH). Characteristics studied were physical appearance, assay, As (V) content, loss on drying and, particle 
size  distribution.  (Bioburden  and  endotoxins  were  checked  annually).  A  photostability  study  was 
conducted on one sample with the conclusion that the active component is not light sensitive. The claim for 
retesting  after  one  year  when  stored  in  tightly  closed  glass  bottles  between  15  and  30°C  is  sufficiently 
justified. 
Other ingredients 
The other ingredients of the formulation, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, water for injections all 
complies  with  PhEur  monographs.  There  are  no  ingredients  of  animal  origin  which  give  rise  to 
concerns related to TSE. 
Product development and finished product 
The  choice  of  dosage  form  and  formulation  of  the  product  was  influenced  by  the  unknown  oral 
bioavailability of As2O3, the data reported in the clinical literature, and the limited solubility of As2O3 
in water. 
The manufacturing process itself is a simple dissolution/mixing and sterilisation procedure. The filled 
ampoules  are  terminally  sterilised  in  a  steam  autoclave,  subjected  to  a  dye  immersion  test,  visually 
inspected, labelled, packaged and placed in quarantine. 
The in-process controls, including all the test limits, are all satisfactory. 
Six lots, three of 50 litres and three of 300 litres, have been used for validation. Biological indicators 
are  included  in  each  sterilisation  cycle.  The  cycle,  including  autoclave  loading  patterns,  has  been 
validated. The validation of the manufacturing process appears to have been thorough and the details 
provided indicate that the process is under control. 
Product Specification 
The finished product specification at release comprises tests for physical appearance (clear, colourless 
solution),  As  (III)  identification  and  assay,  As(V)  assay,  particulate  matter,  volume  in  container, 
sterility and  endotoxins.  
The development of analytical methods applied to the finished product is fully described; reference is 
made, when possible, to PhEur methods. Full details have been provided for eight batches of finished 
product. They all complied with the specifications. 
Stability of the Product 
Five lots of finished product have been placed on stability. Stability trials were done in the commercial 
primary  packaging  in  accordance  with  ICH  testing  conditions  for  narmal  long  test  and  accelerated 
conditions. 
Parameters tested were product appearance, As (III) and As (V) assay, pH, container appearance and 
particulate  matter  (visual);  particulate  matter  (NIAC),  sterility  and  endotoxins  are  tested  yearly. 
Specifications and methods are identical to those used for release. 
3/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results on assay of As (V) show that the amount of this impurity remains constant at levels which do 
not raise a toxicological concern in the context of use of the product.  
A photostability study was conducted in the commercial ampoule and in an ampoule with a secondary 
carton  package.  The  finished  product  is  not  light  sensitive.  A  freeze-thaw  study  indicated  that  the 
finished product is not adversely affected by multiple cycles of freezing and thawing. 
In general, no significant changes were observed in product quality during storage, and the shelf life as 
defined in the SPC is justified by the accumulated stability results. No specific labelling requirements 
are needed with regard to temperature. 
In-use stability of the finished product 
The stability and compatibility of the finished product relevant to the context of clinical use has been 
studied  in  5%  dextrose,  0.9%  sodium  chloride  and  Ringer’s  lactate  solutions  for  infusion  in  their 
commercial  containers.  The  parameters  tested  over  72  hours  at  room  temperature  (∼25°C)  and  in  a 
refrigerator (∼4°C) were appearance, assay of As(III), As(V), UV spectroscopy and particulate matter. 
Adequate methods (anion-exchange HPLC and atomic absorption spectroscopy) were developed and 
validated  to  quantify  As(III)  and  total  arsenic.  On the  basis  of  the  results, an  in-use  shelf-life  of  24 
hours (aseptic preparation and administration) and 48 hours under refrigeration are proposed and this 
is reflected in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
It  sometimes  happens  that  the  molecular  species  responsible  for  the  pharmacological  activity  of  a 
product  is  not  the same  as  the  active  substance  stated  to  be  present in  the  product  (this  may  follow 
from  biotransformation  in  vivo  for  example).  However,  it  is  desirable  to  define  the  strength  of  the 
product  as  far  as  possible  in  terms  of  those  substances  that  are  actually  present  in  the  product,  and 
which  lead  to  its  pharmacological  activity.  In  this  case,  the  precise  qualitative  and  quantitative 
definition of those arsenic species actually present in solution in the finished product has been a matter 
of  debate.  The  chemistry  of  arsenic  compounds  is  not  simple.  However,  it  has  been  accepted  by 
conventional agreement in this case that ‘arsenic trioxide’ may be regarded as the ‘active substance’ in 
the product, although as above, it is accepted that there may well be other species present in solution 
which may be responsible for the activity in the clinical indication.  
The purity of ATO and the control of the manufacturing process and finished product indicate reliable 
reproducibility of the product and indicate in turn a reliable performance in the clinic. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The majority of preclinical data on toxicity and pharmacokinetics comes from published scientific and 
medical information, from formal reviews by official agencies (WHO and US EPA) as part of their 
evaluation  of  the  risk  to  man  of  arsenical  contamination  of  water  and  air.  Whether  these  published 
works comply with GLP cannot be ascertained. However, the consistency of the results, the fact that 
they  were  obtained  from  peer-reviewed  scientific  publications,  and  that  reviews  by  eminent  experts 
have  reached  similar  conclusions  indicates  that  the  available  knowledge  about  the  mechanisms  of 
action of arsenical compounds, the doses or concentrations required and the toxic effects produced can 
be accepted with confidence. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Based on in vitro studies in cellular models of APL (the immortalized cell lines NB4 and UF-1), ATO 
has strong apoptogenic and anti-proliferative effects on APL cells. It does not trigger apoptosis in the 
PML-RARα-negative cell lines, possibly implying that the oncogene PML-RARα (the product of the 
t15:17 chromosomal translocation) may be a primary target for the activity of ATO and its degradation 
a first important step in the process of apoptosis.  
In APL cells, the expression of PML-RARα results in delocalisation of the normal PML protein from 
nuclear  bodies  (NB)  to  other  areas  of  the  nucleus.  Treatment  of  APL  blasts  with  ATRA  results  in 
progressive  degradation  of  PML-RARα  and  relocalisation  of  the  PML  protein  into  NBs.  A  similar 
effect  is  observed  after  treatment  of  APL  cells  with ATO.  The  apoptogenic  and  cyto-differentiating 
effects  of  ATO  in  the  ATRA-resistant  MR2  cell  line  indicate  that  the  compound  acts  on  APL  cells 
regardless  of  their  sensitivity  to  retinoids.  ATO-induced  apoptosis  is  not  due  to  chelation  of  thiol 
4/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
groups in proteins. Indeed, while ATO causes apoptosis in ATRA-sensitive NB4 cells, phenylarsine 
oxide reduces the intracellular concentration of NADH, but does not induce programmed cell death. 
A cellular environment with low levels of gluthathione peroxidase (GPX) seems to be favourable for 
the  apoptogenic  activity  of  ATO.  The  GPX  inhibitor  mercaptosuccinic  acid  sensitizes  cells  to  the 
apoptogenic  action  of  ATO,  while  raising  GPX  by  pre-treatment  with  selenite  makes  NB4  cells 
relatively resistant to the arsenical. Regardless of the upstream molecular determinants, ATO causes 
programmed cell death through a mitochondrial pathway, which involves cytochrome-c release from 
the mitochondria into the cytosol, activation of terminal caspases  (such as caspase-3 and caspase-7), 
nuclear fragmentation, and DNA degradation.  
ATO activity is not limited to APL and extends to other types of leukemia and solid tumors. In vitro, it 
inhibits,  the  growth  of  a  panel  of  megakaryocytic  leukemia  cells  and  induces  apoptosis.  The  PML-
RAR-alpha  negative  HL-60  myeloblastic  cell  line  shows  much  lower  sensitivity  to  ATO.  ATO  and 
melarsoprol  (an  organic  arsenical)  cause  apoptosis  in  a  panel  of  human  myeloma  cells.    Exposure 
times between 24 and 48 hours are necessary to inhibit the growth and induce apoptosis of target cells. 
The cytotoxic activity of ATO has been tested on the NIH panel of neoplastic cell lines (60 cell lines 
representing different types of leukemia and solid cancer). LOX IMVI (melanoma), HOP-92 and NCI-
H226 (lung carcinoma) and CAKI-1 (renal carcinoma) were the most sensitive lines.  
Recent in vivo and in vitro studies have described the effects of ATO on neuroblastoma tumors: 
• 
ATO (1.5 µM to 5µM) was able to induce cell death of different cultured human NB cell lines 
(IMR-32, LAN-1, LAN-2, SK-N-BE, SH-SY5Y, and SMS-MSN). 
ATO was also able to repress in vivo growth of xenotransplanted human NB cells: nude mice 
were  injected  with  SK-N-BE  cells  and  received  ATO  (200  to  400  µg).  These  mice  showed  a 
dose dependent inhibition of tumor growth. 
• 
Interferon  alpha  (IFN)  interacts  synergistically  with  ATO  and  causes  cytotoxicity  in  adult  T-cell 
leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) cells.  
There  is  very  little  need  to  support  the  anti-leukemic  activity  of  ATO  in  pre-clinical  in  vivo  animal 
models  of  APL  since  convincing  data  in  humans  is  already  available.  However,  animal  models  are 
valuable insofar as they may give information about the in vivo mechanisms of action underlying the 
anti-leukemic activity of the arsenical. A single in vivo study using grafts of leukemic cells from PML-
RARα transgenic animals found an approximately two-fold increase in the survival of animals after 
i.p.  injection  of  the  arsenical.  This  effect  is  of  the  same  order  of  magnitude  as  after  treatment  with 
ATRA.  Interestingly,  co-administration  of  ATO  and  ATRA  results  in  a  strong  synergistic  effect  in 
terms of survival, suggesting a complementary pharmacological action. 
ATO  (1-2  µM)  is  effective  in  vitro  against  various  human  myeloid  leukaemia  cells  known  to  be 
resistant  to  a  number  of  apoptotic  stimuli,  inducing  pre-apoptotic  mitochondrial  events,  cytosolic 
cytochrome c accumulation, caspase activities, and hyperacetylation of histones. ATO mediates also 
anti-myeloma activity both directly on tumor cells and indirectly to overcome  myeloma growth and 
survival factors in the bone marrow microenvironment. 
Another study demonstrated that ATO can induce apoptosis of clinically acquired RA-resistant APL 
cells in vitro and in vivo. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Most  of  the  preclinical  data  about  the  pharmacokinetics  of  ATO  in  animals  come  from  published 
information on inorganic forms of arsenic. The justification for this unusual application is that it was 
considered unethical and unnecessary to undertake extensive animal studies just to obtain information 
on what was already known for humans. 
Inorganic  arsenic  compounds  show  good  oral  absorption  (90%  of  a  single  oral  dose),  which  aids 
extrapolation from the results of oral to parenteral studies. Arsenic distributes rapidly to red cells and 
to tissues, is retained in skin and hair longer than other tissues, but does not markedly accumulate in 
any organs or tissues of any species. The pattern of tissue distribution in the mouse is similar to that in 
humans, who show the highest levels in the kidney and spleen.  
The  distribution  of  arsenic  in  the  rat  is  quite  different  from  other  animal  species.  In  rat,  a  large 
majority of the arsenic becomes bound to haemoglobin in red blood cells, and very little reaches other 
tissues.  For  this  reason,  the  rat  is  probably  not  an  appropriate  toxicokinetic  model  for  distribution, 
metabolism, or excretion of arsenic by humans. 
In mice the highest concentrations of arsenic a few hours after I.V. arsenite were in the liver, kidneys, 
bile,  lung,  spleen,  epididymis,  and  gastrointestinal  tract.  At  72  hours  post-dose,  the  highest 
5/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
concentrations  were  in  the  skin,  hair,  epididymis,  liver,  and  stomach.  At  30  days,  the  maximum 
concentrations were in skin, hair, and the lens of the eye.  
In  pregnant  mice, rats,  hamsters, and primates, inorganic arsenicals cross the placental barrier when 
given  orally  or  by  injection,  and  arsenic  is  generally  distributed  in  the  late-term  fetus  in  a  manner 
similar to the adult animal. 
The metabolism of arsenic has been extensively studied in humans and animals. There is metabolism 
to mono- and dimethyl derivatives, and some generation of dimethyl arsine by bacterial action in the 
colon.  The  effect  of  hepatic  damage  has  not  been  investigated.  Trivalent  inorganic  arsenic  is 
metabolised  by  methylation  to  methylarsonic  acid  (MAA)  and  rapidly  to  dimethlyarsinic  acid 
(DMAA).  The  metabolic  detoxification  requires  hepatic  methylases  that  are  not  involved  in 
conventional pathways of drug metabolism and clearance.  
Since  the  methyl  derivatives  of  arsenic  appear  to  be  less  toxic  than  inorganic  arsenic,  and  since 
methylation  tends to  result  in  lower tissue retention of  inorganic  arsenic, the  methylation  process is 
usually  viewed  as  a  detoxification  mechanism.  Because  methylation  is  an  enzymatic  process,  an 
important issue is the dose of arsenic that saturates the methylation capacity of an organism. Limited 
data from studies in humans suggest that methylation may begin to become limiting at doses of about 
0.2-1  mg/day.  However,  with  these  few  observations,  the  dose  rate  at  which  methylation  capacity 
becomes saturated cannot be precisely defined. 
Elimination of arsenic following parenteral exposure of animals is similar to that seen following oral 
exposure. The  major  pathway  of  elimination in  all  species  was  renal, fecal excretion accounting  for 
<10%.  Excretion  in  urine  was  initially  quite  rapid  in  most  species  (t1/2  2  -  6  hours,  followed  by  a 
slower t1/2 of 15 days). In rabbits and mice, urinary excretion within eight hours usually accounts for 
about  50-80  %  of  the  dose.  Somewhat  lower  levels  are  excreted  in  the  urine  of  marmoset  monkeys 
probably  because  of  the  absence  of  methylation  in  these  species.  Whole-body  clearance  studies  in 
mice  indicate  that  the  clearance  of  arsenate  is  lower  (65  %  removed  within  24  hours)  than  that  of 
arsenite is about (86% removed at 24 hours). Inorganic arsenic is initially excreted in urine in trivalent 
and  pentavalent  forms,  and  the  organic  methylated  metabolite  DMAA  is  the  most  prevalent  form 
during the slower phase.  
Toxicology  
Single-dose toxicity 
A single-dose toxicity study of ATO has not been carried out. However, a review of the Registry of 
Toxic Effects Chemical Substances (RTECS) shows that ATO has been extensively evaluated in acute 
toxicity  studies.  There  is  a  remarkable  consistency  among  various  species,  regardless  of  the 
administration route, in both lowest lethal dose and LD50 values for ATO. The LD50 (mg/kg) in mice 
were 10.7 i.v., 9.8-12.3 s.c., 11.0-11.8 i.p. and 39.4 p.o. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeated toxicity studies were performed in four animal species commonly used in chronic toxicity 
studies. The low oral doses ranged between 0.1 and 5 mg/kg/day, and the i.p. doses were between 1.3 
and  2  mg/kg/day.  All  results  indicate  that  the  low  doses  cause  no  important  toxicity.  The  principal 
toxic  actions  of  chronically  administered  arsenics  are  lesions  of  the  skin,  damage  to  the  liver  and 
kidneys,  peripheral  neuropathy,  and  some  depression  of  hematopoiesis.  In  rodents,  the  NOEL  was 
about 1-1.7 mg/kg/day for up to two years, and in man it is probably about 0.5-1 mg/kg/day. 
The  systemic  toxic  effects  of  arsenic  exposure  in  animals  were  similar  to  those  in  humans.  NOEL 
values, determined from subchronic exposure in mice (0.8 mg/kg/day), chronic exposure in rats (1.7 
mg/kg/day),  and  dogs  (0.3  mg/kg/day;  1.25  mg/kg/day),  and  the  minimal  toxicities  in  adolescent 
monkeys  receiving  3.75  mg/kg/day,  provide  a  safety  factor  of  approximately  2  or  more  for  i.v. 
administration of 0.15 mg/kg/day ATO in humans. 
Reproductive toxicology 
Reproductive toxicology studies were not conducted by the Applicant and are normally not required 
for anticancer agents such as ATO. However, inorganic arsenicals are teratogenic and cause maternal 
and fetal toxicity in the mouse and rat but not in the rabbit. They do not affect female fertility; male 
fertility  has  not  been  formally  tested.  The  NOEL  for  developmental  effects  is  1-5  mg/kg/day  in 
rodents. Postnatal development of the mouse was affected by prenatal exposure to 2 mg/kg/day.  
6/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity  
Arsenite and ATO can be mutagenic in mammalian cells in culture. The mechanism of genotoxicity is 
not  clear,  as  the  conventional  Ames’  test  has  usually  given  a  negative  result.  The  effects  indicate 
chromosomal damage and deletions but not simple point mutations. 
In  vivo,  a  significant  dose-related  increase  in  micronuclei  was  observed  in  the  mouse  bone  marrow 
micronucleus test up to 5 mg/kg i.p., but no effect in a male dominant lethal test, indicating that there 
is no heritable risk. The compound seems to cause DNA damage by several mechanisms and affects 
DNA repair mechanisms in mammalian cells.  
Carcinogenicity  
Carcinogenicity  studies  were  not  conducted  by  the  Applicant  and  are  normally  not  required  for 
anticancer  agents such as ATO.  ATO  is a  proven  human  carcinogen  under  certain  circumstances  of 
chronic exposure. There may be a threshold dose below which it does not have that action. 
Local tolerance 
The local tolerance to intravenous injections of ATO was studied in a repeated dose sub-acute study in 
dogs.  There  were  no  clinical  observations  of  inflammation  at  the  injection  site.  No  necrosis  or 
inflammatory  cells  were  observed  in  the  skin  surrounding  the  injection  site  on  histopathological 
analysis of the area around the injection site. 
Environmental risk assessment/Ecotoxicity 
Considering  of  the  administered  doses  of  Trisenox  and  the  rarity  of  the  disease  to  be  treated,  its 
medical use should not add appreciably to the environmental burden of arsenic. There is no reason to 
expect  any  risk  to  the  community,  to  people  in  close  proximity  to  patients  or  to  other  biota  in  the 
environment. 
Discussion on pre-clinical and toxicological aspects 
The  applicant  has  presented  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  data  demonstrating  that  ATO  has  anti-leukaemic 
activity in appropriate experimental models of APL. The one in vivo study indicates that ATO has a 
selective effect on leukaemic cells and does not seem to cause overt toxicity in animals. This results in 
a significant increase in the lifespan of ATO-treated animals compared to vehicle-treated animals. It 
would be important to strengthen these data in other in vivo models of APL. 
The mechanisms of action underlying the apoptogenic and cyto-differentiating action of ATO are still 
largely unknown. It seems that the pharmacological activity is not related to its ability to interfere with 
intracellular sulfhydryl groups, and this indicates dissociation between the molecular mechanisms of 
the anti-leukaemic and toxic action of arsenicals. Furthermore, the anti-leukaemic activity of ATO is 
different from that of organic arsenicals, such as melarsoprol. As to the molecular determinants of the 
drug's  apoptogenic  activity,  some  results  indicate  a  possible  mediation  by  oxygen  peroxides,  which 
may  damage  mitochondria  and  lead  to  the  activation  of  a  classical  apoptotic  program.  Whether  the 
anti-leukaemic  action  of  ATO  is  specific  for  APL  and  involves  targeting  upon  PML-RAR-alpha 
remains to be clarified. 
No formal safety pharmacology investigation has been carried out. Toxic effects of arsenic inhalation 
or  administration  are  also  well  known.  Levels  of  significant  exposure  for  each  route  of  arsenic 
exposure are available in a broad range of already published reviews and articles. An analysis of the 
toxic  effects  of  arsenic  is  complicated  by  the  fact  that  arsenic  can  exist  in  several  different  valence 
states  and  many  different  inorganic  and  organic  compounds.  However,  even  if  data  on  arsenic 
inhalation or oral exposure are required to fully understand the toxic potential of arsenic, those effects 
are not totally the same after i.v. administration. 
The absence of experimental safety study does not permit to evaluate all the general effects that may 
be  potentially  induced  by  the  i.v.  administration  of  ATO.  However,  a  various  number  of  published 
clinical data are focused on this subject, in particular on cardiovascular, respiratory or renal disorders. 
In conclusion, Arsenic is a well-known and described product. Simultaneous exposure to arsenic and 
other genotoxic compounds may increase the DNA damage and the carcinogenic risk. This calls for 
caution in clinical application of sodium arsenite. 
7/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The application included clinical data from two main clinical trials (PLRXAS01 and 97-66) and trial 
extensions (PLRXAS02 and 98-13). A total of 52 patients with APL entered the treatment phase of the 
studies  (Table  1).  Data  from  two  supportive  studies  with  a  total  of  58  patients  with  advanced 
haematological  (n=24  with  3  patients  already  recruited  in  the  main  studies)  or  non-haematological 
malignancies (n=34) were also provided. The safety population consists of 107 patients from the main 
studies and 141 patients enrolled in compassionate use studies. 
Table 1: Clinical Studies 
Trial 
(extension) 
97-66 
(98-13) 
PLRXAS01 
(PLRXAS02) 
98-23 
98-46 
Population 
Design 
Phase I/II: Relapsed or refractory APL. 
Phase  II  (multicentre,  non-randomised):  Relapsed  or 
refractory APL. 
Phase I/II (dose ranging , PK): Advanced haematologic 
malignancies 
Phase I (dose ranging, PK): Advanced solid tumours 
N 
(extension) 
12 
(7) 
40 
(18) 
24 
34 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Data from a pharmacodynamic study on APL patients treated with ATO were provided. The study was 
conducted since arsenic is known to increase the QT electrocardiographic (ECG) interval, which may 
lead  to  a  very  serious,  sometimes  even  fatal,  type  of  arrhythmia.  The  study  focussed  on  the  ECG 
alterations induced by the arsenical in patients treated with a typical cycle. Data were available for a 
total of 99 patients included in the clinical trials. The results in terms of anti-tumour activity of ATO 
are provided in the Clinical Efficacy section of this report. 
A total of about 1000 ECG were taken at the beginning of the treatment (baseline ECG), during the 
induction  phase  and  during  the  consolidation  phase.    The  following  primary  parameters  were  taken 
into  consideration:  QTc  interval  at  baseline,  maximum  QTc  interval  during  the  infusion,  maximum 
QTc  interval  during  the  steady-state  phase  of  infusion,  difference  from  baseline  in  QTc  interval, 
maximum  change  in  QTc  interval  from  baseline  observed  during  the  steady-state  phase  of  infusion 
and difference from baseline in the heart rate. QTc intervals were stratified as normal, borderline or 
prolonged. 
The results were analyzed as a whole or stratified according to sex and fertility status, as well as for 
age distribution.  
After the first course of ATO, there was a statistically significant QTc prolongation in both males and 
females. The steady-state QTc prolongation is longer in men than women and steady-state values are 
attained  sooner  -  as  indicated  by  the  half-life  -  in  women  than  men.  QTc  interval  prolongation  was 
comparable  for  both  sexes  during  the  second  course  of  arsenic  therapy.  These  discrepancies  are 
currently  unexplained.  No significant  differences  were  observed in  any  of  the  parameters taken  into 
consideration for the various age-groups. Surprisingly, the QT prolongation appeared to decline with 
increasing dosage, although this effect was not statistically significant. In evaluating these data, it must 
also  be  noted  that  the  administered  dose  is  just  a  rough  proxy  for  ATO  plasma  levels,  a  more 
important parameter that was not determined in this study. 
After treatment with ATO, heart rate increases from baseline level. The increase was not dependent on 
gender or dosage. A second course of ATO only influenced the heart rate increase in females in whom 
a  second  course  of  ATO  was  associated  with  a  lower  elevation  of  heart  rate  than  during  the  first 
course.   
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics of arsenic was investigated in relapsed or refractory APL patients (study 97-66) as 
well  as  in  two  studies  conducted  in  patients  with  advanced  haematological  or  non-haematological 
malignancies. 
8/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total  elemental  arsenic  concentrations  including  inorganic  arsenic,  its  methylated  metabolites,  and 
other  forms  of  organic  arsenic  were  determined  in  both  plasma  and  red  blood  cells  (RBCs)  blood 
fractions, with a lower limit of quantification at 5 ng/ml (0.07 µM).  In addition urine samples were 
collected at Day 1, at Day 2 and Day 3, and at the first day of subsequent weeks during induction. The 
lower limit of quantification was 2 ng/ml. 
The  12  patients  with  APL  enrolled  in  the  97-66  study  were  included  in  this  pharmacological 
evaluation  (Table  2).  One  paediatric  patient  received  5  mg/dose  (0.17  mg/kg/dose),  6  patients 
including one paediatric patient received 10 mg/dose (0.06 to 0.18 mg/kg/dose), 1 patient received 15 
mg/dose  (0.16 mg/kg/dose),  and  2  patients  received  0.15  mg/kg/dose  (14.3  and  15  mg/dose, 
respectively). ATO was administered over 2-hour, 3-hour, or 4-hour time periods. 
Table 2: Study 97-66: Plasma Pharmacokinetic Parameters after a 4 hr I.V. Infusion (day 1) 
Age 
36 
45 
30 
62 
25 
75 
40 
13 
9 
70 
28 
23 
dose 
mg 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
15 
15 
10 
5 
15 
14.3 
15 
Mg/kg 
0.18 
0.12 
0.18 
0.10 
0.06 
0.20 
0.16 
0.18 
0.17 
0.16 
0.15 
0.15 
Mean±SD 
tmax (hr) 
4 
4 
2 
2 
4 
1 
1 
2 
8 
4 
2 
4 
3.2±1.9 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
26 
19 
31 
22 
20 
48 
26 
18 
21 
40 
28 
30 
27.4±9 
T1/2 (hr) 
19 
175 
27 
149 
NA 
39 
78 
197 
133 
196 
70 
18 
100±72 
AUC0-24hr 
473 
381 
434 
495 
430 
691 
413 
337 
457 
631 
411 
250 
450±119 
In the nine APL patients treated with 0.12 to 0.18 mg/kg/dose, the maximal concentration (Cmax) after 
a 4-hour i.v. infusion was comprised between 18 and 40 ng/ml (0.24-0.53 µM) in the plasma fraction 
and  between  16  and  35  ng/ml  (0.21-0.47  µM)  in  the  RBCs  fraction.  The  time  at  maximal 
concentration (tmax) was 1 to 4 hours and the terminal half-life (t1/2) was comprise between 19 and 197 
hours in the plasma fraction and between 6 and 98 hours in the RBCs fraction.  
There  was  a  progressive  increase  in  plasma  arsenic concentration  with  daily  dosing.  Concentrations 
after one week of treatment were approximately 2-5 times the Cmax on the first day of dosing. They 
reached a steady state comprised between approximately 50 and 125 ng/ml (0.67-1.7 µM/l) during the 
second week of treatment and thus might be considered as a good parameter for safety monitoring and 
overdose diagnosis. 
One  patient  treated  at  15  mg/dose  (0.16  mg/kg/dose)  presented  a  continuously  progressive  increase 
until  approximately  200  ng/ml  (2.7 µM)  after  one  month  of  dosing.  This  patient  required 
haemodialysis for the management of renal insufficiency from Day 14 of ATO administration.  
Inorganic arsenic (trivalent forms) is metabolised by methylation to methylarsonic acid (MAA) and to 
dimethylarsinic acid (DMAA, also known as cacodylic acid). The main site of methylation in vivo is 
the liver, but it also occurs in the kidney and blood. Pentavalent arsenic does not undergo methylation; 
it  is  therefore  eliminated  by  excretion  in  urine  as  unchanged  compound  or  by  transformation  to 
trivalent arsenic. 
Complete  urine  samples  were  collected  over  a  24-hour  period  from  seven  patients  with  cancer 
following daily doses of ATO: The amount of total arsenic detected in urine during a 24-hour period 
following the first dose approximated 10% of the administered dose. 
The  amount  of  arsenic  recovered  in  urine  increased  with  repeated  daily  dosing.  With  a  urinary 
excretion  half-life  for  arsenic  of  3  to  5  days,  it  is  estimated  that  18-30  days  would  be  required  to 
recover  100%  of  a  single  dose.  When  urine  samples  were  collected  on  days  beyond  when  plasma 
concentrations  appeared  to  have  achieved  steady-state  (8  to  10  days),  the  average  peak  quantity  of 
arsenic  excreted  in  24  hours  was  60%  of  the  administered  daily  dose.  Based  on  PK  and  clinical 
observations,  a  2-week  or  3-week  free  interval  has  to  be  managed  between  two  consecutive  ATO 
cycles. 
In the hematological cancer patients (Study 98-23) after 1 to 4 h i.v. infusion of doses from 0.1 to 0.3 
mg/kg, the tmax of total arsenic in plasma and RBC ranged from 1 to 4 h and the Cmax from 11 to 53 
9/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ng/mL, with a slightly wider range in RBC (10 to 74 ng/mL). The average Cmax and AUC0-8h values for 
plasma and RBC showed a dose-response relationship.  
In patients with solid tumours (Study 98-46) treated with one daily 2-h i.v. Trisenox infusion at doses 
of 0.5 to 0.35 mg/kg, total arsenic measured on the first day of dosing peaked at or near the end of the 
infusion and then slowly declined. Average plasma and RBC Cmax and AUC0-8h for Regimen A (blood 
collections before, during and after the first infusion on day 1, and at the beginning and end of the day 
2  infusion  in  the  first  cycle)  essentially  increased  with  the  dose,  suggesting  a  dose-concentration 
relationship,  while  for  Regimen  B  (blood  collections  over  96  h  during  and  after  a  single  infusion) 
mean plasma and RBC arsenic concentrations increased over the course of the treatment, achieving a 
steady state on day 10.  
Data on the tissue distribution of arsenic come from suicide victims; the highest concentrations were 
found in the liver and kidneys, with uniformly lower concentrations in muscle, heart, spleen, pancreas, 
and lungs. Arsenic is known to accumulate in skin, hair, nails, and brain and binds to blood and tissue 
proteins. 
Inorganic arsenic species cross the placenta when given to pregnant rodents and non-human primates.  
ATO is excreted in human milk.  
Interactions  between  ATO  and  oxidatively  biotransformed  drugs  are  unlikely  because  the 
methyltransferases involved in arsenic metabolism are not members of the cytochrome P-450 family. 
ATO  did  not  cause  concentration-dependent  inhibition  of  any  of  the  enzymes  examined  (CYP1A2, 
CYP2A6,  CYP2B6,  CYP2C8,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6,  CYP2E1,  CYP  3A4/5  and 
CYP4A9/11)  and  would  therefore  not  be  expected  to  inhibit  the  clearance  of  drugs  that  are 
metabolised primarily by these enzymes, at least at concentrations lower than 15,000 ng/ml.   
Discussion on clinical Pharmacology 
Arsenic  is  known  to  increase  the  QT  electrocardiographic  interval,  which  may  eventually  lead  to  a 
very serious, and sometimes fatal, type of arrhythmia. The results presented are in line with what is 
known from the literature on the cardiotoxicity of arsenic. Some uncertainties remain as to the reasons 
why  the  sex  differences  in  QTc  interval  prolongation  are  observed  only  during  the  first  course  of 
treatment  with  ATO.  Also,  the  inverse  relationship  between  dose  administered  and  QTc  interval 
prolongation  is  unexplained.  Correlative  studies involving  measurements  of  ATO  plasma  levels and 
QTc interval prolongation remain of interest. 
The  clinical  pharmacokinetics  of  intravenous  ATO  has  been  evaluated  in  patients  with  relapsed  or 
refractory  APL  (study  97-66)  and  patients  with  advanced  hematological  (study  98-23-PK)  and  non-
hematological malignancies (study 98-46-PK). In no population was the pharmacokinetics of trivalent 
arsenic, the active species of Trisenox, adequately characterized because the analytical method did not 
distinguish between the different forms of arsenic. Additionally, no formal pharmacokinetic analysis 
was planned and only descriptive statistics have been provided. Nevertheless on the first day of dosing 
there appeared to be some dose-relation for mean exposure to the drug. Exposure to the drug increases 
with  daily  dosing,  approaching  a  steady  state  by  approximately  two  weeks,  in  terms  of  0  and  4h 
plasma  and  RBC  concentrations.  Unfortunately  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  not  calculated  at 
steady state. So it is not possible to ascertain whether the pharmacokinetic behaviour of ATO is linear 
after repeated dosing. 
No  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  formally  investigated  elderly  patients  and  patients  with  hepatic  or 
renal  impairment. The  SPC  cautions about  the  use  of  this  drug  in  paediatric  patients. The  SPC  also 
cautions  about  the  use  of  Trisenox  in  patients  with  hepatic  and  renal  impairment  as  its  safety  and 
effectiveness  have  not  been  studied.  However,  the  fact  that  renal  excretion  is  the  main  route  of 
elimination  of  arsenic  and  the  case  of  progressive  drug  accumulation  in  one  patient  who  required 
haemodialysis for the management of renal insufficiency suggests that a survey on the effect of renal 
impairment on arsenic disposition would be useful (see Follow-up measures/Specific obligations). 
Clinical Efficacy 
The main clinical efficacy data submitted consisted of data derived from two non-randomised studies, 
which  recruited  a  total  of  52  patients  with  APL  who  had  relapsed  after  retinoid  and  anthracycline 
chemotherapy, or for who anthracycline-based chemotherapy was contraindicated.  
10/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main Studies 
The two main studies submitted had similar design. Study 97-66 was a non-randomised study titled 
“Pharmacokinetics  of  Arsenic  in  Patients  with  Relapsed  or  Refractory  Acute  Promyelocytic 
Leukemia”.  Study  PLRXAS01  was  a  non-randomised  study  titled  “Multicenter  Study  of  ATO  in 
Relapsed or Refractory Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia”. 
Methods 
Selection criteria for the studies included diagnosis of APL by bone marrow morphology during the 
present relapse (with confirmation by cytogenetics, FISH or RT-PCR after registration of the patient 
into  the  trial)  and  relapse  from  or  resistance  to  standard  antileukaemic  therapy.  Relapse  from  or 
resistance  to  standard  antileukaemic  therapy  was  defined  as  at  least  one  course  of  induction 
chemotherapy  using  an  anthracycline  antibiotic  and  at  least  one  course  of induction  or  maintenance 
therapy using either all-trans retinoic acid or 9-cis retinoic acid. 
The  Phase  I/II  study  97-66  was  conducted  at  the  Memorial  Sloan-Kettering  Cancer  Center  and  the 
Phase II PLRXAS01 study was conducted at nine centres in the United States. 
There were differences in the dose regimen (reflecting the range of doses explored in the Phase I/II 
study) aims of one of the two studies. In the Phase I/II study, the dosing consisted of 10mg/dose, as 
derived  from  the  Shanghai  series  (Shen  Z-X  et  al.,  1997)  and  was  escalated  to  15  mg/dose.  One 
paediatric patient received 5 mg/dose. To accommodate paediatric patients, dosing was lastly changed 
to fixed 0.15-mg/kg/dose regimens.  
Induction  therapy.  The  dose  of  0.15  mg/kg/day  was  used  for  the  PLRXAS01  study  and  ATO  was 
administered until bone marrow remission was observed (see definition of CR) for up to a maximum 
of 60 doses (but only three patients received more than 49 doses). Review of the available data had 
suggested that dosing for up to 60 doses might be required to induce bone marrow remission, and that 
a consolidation course following CR during the initial treatment might prolong remission. Induction 
treatment  was  to  be  discontinued  when  the  patient  met  the  criteria  for  bone  marrow  remission,  if 
substantial  toxicity,  overdose,  or  disease  progression  occurred,  or  after  60  doses  had  been 
administered.  
Consolidation  treatment.  Patients  who  achieved  clinical  CR  were  eligible  to  receive  one  course  of 
consolidation treatment with ATO, beginning 3 to 4 weeks after completion of the induction therapy. 
One course of consolidation treatment was defined as ATO at the same dose as administered during 
induction, on weekdays only, continuous daily, or some combination thereof, until the cumulative total 
of 25 treatments was reached. All therapy during consolidation was to be completed within 5 weeks 
(≤35  days).  Patients  who  failed  to  reach  CR  after  the  induction  period  were  not  eligible  for  further 
treatment on this study. 
Patients  who  remained  in  CR  after  the  consolidation  treatment  were  eligible  to  participate  to 
extensions  of  the  corresponding  protocols  (98-13  and  PLRXAS02,  respectively).  Patients  were 
allowed to receive up to an additional 4 courses of maintenance therapy at the same dose and schedule 
as they had received for consolidation. 
Dose modification and protocol treatment discontinuation 
Phase II protocol treatment was to be discontinued if symptoms suggesting potentially serious acute 
arsenic  toxicity  appeared  (overdose),  progressive  disease(hyperleukocytosis  by  itself  was  not  to  be 
considered evidence for disease progression in the absence of abnormal promyelocytes) or significant 
toxicity.  Significant  toxicity:  Treatment  with  ATO  could  be  interrupted,  adjusted,  or  discontinued 
before  the  scheduled  end  of  therapy  at  any  time  that  a  toxicity  Grade  3  or  greater  on  the  National 
Cancer Institute common toxicity criteria, version 1 (NCI-CTC), was observed. Treatment was to be 
interrupted in the case of significant: 
 
hepatotoxicity (defined as an increase in serum bilirubin, SGOT or alkaline phosphatase to >5 
times baseline values), 
nephrotoxicity (defined as serum creatinine >4 times the upper limit of normal), 
significant neurological impairment (defined as somnolence, seizures, or impaired mentation), 
severe peripheral neuropathy or any non-hematologic Grade 4 toxicity. 
 
 
 
Patients  who  experienced  such  adverse  events  classified  as  probably  drug  related  could  resume 
treatment only after resolution of the toxicity or (recovery to baseline status). In such cases, treatment 
11/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was  to  resume  at  50%  of  the  preceding  daily  dose.  If  the  toxicity  did  not  recur  within  3  days  of 
restarting treatment at the reduced dose, the daily dose could be escalated back to 100% of the original 
dose. Patients who experienced a recurrence of toxicity were to be removed from the study and not 
retreated. Patients with therapy interrupted for conditions that were not considered probably related to 
ATO treatment could resume treatment at the full dose at the discretion of the investigator. 
At the earliest signs of ATRA-like syndrome, patients were to be treated with a short course of high 
dose corticosteroids (10 mg of dexamethasone intravenously twice per day for 3 days). 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  study  PLRXS01  was  to  determine  the  rate  and  duration  of  complete 
remission and the safety profile of ATO for the treatment of patients with APL who had relapsed or 
become refractory to conventional anti-leukaemic therapy. Secondary objectives were to determine the 
overall,  failure-free  and relapse-free survival. The  primary  objective  of  study  97-66  was  to  evaluate 
the safety and potential efficacy of ATO in patients with relapsed or refractory acute promyelocytic 
leukemia. A secondary objective was to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of As2O3. 
Clinical  Complete  Remission  was  defined  as  cellular  bone  marrow  aspirate  with  <5%  blasts  (and 
absence of leukemic cells), peripheral blood leukocyte count ≥3,000/mm3 or absolute neutrophil count 
≥1,500/mm3,  and  platelet  count ≥100,000/mm3  .  The date of  CR  was  the  last  of  the dates  on  which 
these criteria were met. In addition to the conventional criteria for CR described above, bone marrow 
cells were assessed for t(15:17) by conventional cytogenetics and/or by molecular cytogenetics using 
RT-PCR for PML/RAR-α or FISH. Disappearance of t(15;17) was considered supportive evidence for 
CR.  Abnormalities  confined  to  reports  of  cytogenetic  or  molecular  studies,  absent  these  clinical 
abnormalities,  were  not  considered  clinical  relapse.  Failure-free  survival  was  calculated  as  the  time 
from first ATO to relapse or death, whichever first; relapse-free survival was calculated as the time 
from CR to relapse or death, whichever first. Follow-up is planned to continue until at least five years 
after the beginning of induction therapy. 
Evaluations 
Evaluations of bone marrow aspirates were to be performed at least once on or before day 28, then 
weekly until bone marrow CR, before beginning consolidation treatment, between 7 and 21 days after 
completion  of  consolidation  treatment  and  then  approximately  once  every  3  months  during  the  first 
year after achieving CR. Bone marrow morphology, differential count, and conventional cytogenetics 
were to be performed at the study sites; aliquots of the bone marrow samples were also to be sent for 
PML/RARα RT-PCR testing, which was conducted in a central laboratory. 
In the main clinical studies, adverse events were classified as serious if they were fatal, immediately 
life-threatening,  permanently  or significantly  disabling  or  required  or  prolonged  hospitalization. The 
medical  monitor  who  designated  events  as  serious  or  not  based  on  criteria  stated  in  the  protocols 
reviewed  adverse  events.  EKGs  were  obtained  at  baseline  and  weekly  or  twice  weekly  during 
treatment  as  ATO  was  known  to  cause  prolongation  of  the  QT  interval.  Physical  examinations  and 
vital signs were required at baseline and twice each week during induction therapy with ATO. These 
were  also  obtained  at  the  end  of  treatment  and  during  follow-up.  During  consolidation  treatment, 
physical examinations and vital signs were measured weekly. Standard clinical laboratory evaluations 
were performed at baseline, during treatment with ATO and at the final visit. 
Sample size 
The  sample-size  of  study  PLRXAS01  was  calculated  assuming  a  50%  CR  for  ATO  and  aiming  to 
exclude a CR of 33% or lower, based on a one-sided lower confidence limit (alpha=0.05). All patients 
should have received at least one dose of ATO to be included in the efficacy analysis. The proportion 
of CR is reported together with 2-sided exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the proportion. 
Results 
Participant flow, recruitment and baseline data 
Tables 3-5 summarise the baseline characteristics and flow of participants in the two trials according 
to the different stages of ATO treatment. All selected patients started protocol treatment and received 
ATO for at least two weeks, except one patient from the 97-66 study who received ATO only for five 
days. 
Study  97-66  was  conducted  during  the  8  months  from  October  16,  1997  to  June  5,  1998.  Twelve 
patients  entered  and  11  completed  induction  therapy;  these  11  patients  entered  and  completed 
consolidation therapy. One patient died due to cerebral haemorrhage on the 6th day of induction. Two 
additional  97-66  patients  died  within  30  days  after  last  study  treatment  (both  due  to  cerebral 
12/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
haemorrhage after APL recurrence and in one patient in the context of chronic renal failure requiring 
dialysis). The last follow-up contact for the 6 surviving patients was July 18, 2000.  
The Phase II PLRXAS01 study was conducted during the 15 months from April 22, 1998 to July 5, 
1999.  The  last  follow-up  contact  for  the  26  surviving  patients  was  on  July  28,  2000.  Forty  patients 
entered  and  34  completed  induction  therapy;  30  patients  entered  and  28  completed  consolidation 
therapy.  Of  the  34  patients  from  PLRXAS01  eligible  for the consolidation  phase  six  did  not  start  it 
(two received stem cell transplantation), two had refused further treatment for personal reasons (non 
related adverse events), one had persistent worsening of peripheral neuropathy, and one had disease-
related seizure and pulmonary hemorrhage). Conversely, 2/6 patients entered consolidation treatment 
without having achieved CR during induction. Two PLRXAS01 patients died during induction (one 
on  the  39th  day  due  to  GI  bleed,  hypotension  and  stroke;  one  on  the  16th  day  due  to  cerebral 
haemorrhage).  One  additional  patient  died  during  consolidation  (due  to  pulmonary  Aspergillus 
infection). 
Two PLRXAS01 patients eligible for the consolidation phase received Stem Cell Transplant (SCT). 
Four  other  patients  were  eligible  for  consolidation  but  did  not  receive  it;  two  patients  for  personal 
reasons,  one  patients  due  to  persistent  worsening  of  peripheral  neuropathy,  and  one  patient  due  to 
disease  related  seizure  activity  and  pulmonary  haemorrhage.  Two  patients  entered  consolidation 
treatment  without  having  achieved  CR  during  induction.  All  patients  started  protocol  treatment  and 
were included in the efficacy analysis.  
Table 3. Baseline demographic and clinical characteristics 
Demographics 
97-66 
N=12  
PLRXAS01 
N=40 
Age  
<18 
18 to 59 
≥60 
Gender 
Female 
  Male 
Weight 
<75 kg 
75 to 100 kg 
>100 kg 
Months since diagnosis  
  Mean 
  Median 
Range 
Prior BMT 
No 
Yes 
No. of prior regimens 
1 
2 
>2 
2 
7 
3 
4 
8 
4 
6 
2 
5 
27 
8 
24 
16 
13 
18 
9 
26.2 
21.1 
11.9-61.1 
10 (83%) 
2 (17%) 
3 
3 
6 
22.7 
18.1 
9.0-53.8 
35 (88%) 
5 (13%) 
19 
17 
4 
Total 
N=52(%) 
(13%) 
7 
34  (65%) 
11  (21%) 
28  (54%) 
 (46%) 
24 
17  (33%) 
24  (46%) 
11  (21%) 
23.5 
18.4 
9.0-61.1 
45 
7 
 (87%) 
 (13%) 
22  (42%) 
20  (38%) 
10  (20%) 
13/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  4.  Induction  and  consolidation  treatment:  Number  of  patients  by  treatment  course  and 
reason for protocol treatment discontinuation 
Study 
No. started 
Completed 
Early discontinuation  
Fatal SAE 
Non-fatal SAE 
Non-serious AE 
Progressive disease 
PLRXAS01 
n=40 
Induction Course 
97-66 
n=12 
12 
11 
1 
40 
34 
6 
1 
2 
2 
2  
Consolidation Course 
97-66 
PLRXAS01 
11 
11 
0 
30 
28 
2 
1 
1 
Table  5.  Maintenance  treatment:  Number  of  patients  by  number  of  maintenance  courses 
completed (extension studies) 
No. of courses completed 
1 
2 
3 
4 
98-13 
n=7 
- 
2 
4 
1 
PLRXAS02 
n=18 
5 
6 
- 
7 
Total 
n=25 
5 
8 
4 
5 
Clinical Efficacy Results 
The main clinical efficacy results presented are summarised in table 6 for individual studies as well as 
for the merged data set (N=52). No patient was excluded from the main efficacy analysis.  
CR rate: In the phase II study, 34/40 (85%)  patients achieved a clinical CR. Overall, 45/52 (87%), 
APL patients enrolled in the two pivotal studies achieved a clinical CR. The median time to clinical 
CR  was  57  days.  At  the  time  of  last  follow-up  (July  28,  2000),  24  of  45  (55%)  patients  with  CR 
remained free  of  disease. Sixteen  had  undergone  allogeneic  SCT (14  while in remission  and  2  after 
further  relapse).  Three  had  undergone  autologous  SCT  while  in  remission.  Thirty-one  of  45  (69%) 
patients with CR were alive at last contact with median follow-up of 18.5 months (range 11.7 to 32.4). 
The response rate seemed consistent across different patient subgroups although the power to detect 
any differences was small due to the small sample size and definitive conclusions could not be drawn. 
Overall,  5/7  paediatric  patients  (<18  years)  and  2/4  (<  12  years)  achieved  CR.  There  were  only  11 
elderly  patients  and  9/11  (>60  years)  and  7/8  (≥65)  years  achieved  CR.  CR  was  observed  in  5/7 
patients that had relapsed after prior SCT and in 40/45 without prior SCT. No difference was observed 
in CR rate by time from last ATRA therapy (6 or 12-months cut-points). CR was observed in 20/22 in 
patients who had received only one prior treatment regimen versus 25/30 in the remaining group. 
Forty-five  patients  were  evaluated  for  conversion  to  normal  cytogenetics:  41  of  them  actually 
converted to normal karyotype and became negative for t(15:17). RT-PCR for PML-RARα was used 
to  document  CR  in  the  45  patients  with  CR:  35  patients  in  clinical  CR  (78%  of  CR  patients)  were 
negative  for  RT-PCR  at  the  sensitivity  level  of  10-4. The  median time  to  cytogenetic  remission  was 
longer than the median time to clinical CR. Seven patients (16%) did not obtain molecular remission, 
and  3  were  not  evaluated  for  PML/RARα  (2  patients  who  were  not  evaluated  did  not  receive 
consolidation and all 3 received bone marrow transplants). 
Overall survival: At last follow-up, 32 of 52 patients were alive with a median follow-up time of 18.3 
months (range 12 to 32). The Kaplan-Meier estimate for 18-month survival was 66% (Table 6). Figure 
1  shows  the  overall  survival  for  the  combined  pivotal  studies.  A  separate  analysis  of  survival 
censoring the 19 SCT patients at the time of transplants showed similar results. Overall, 31/45 (69%) 
14/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients with CR were alive at last contact, with median follow-up of 18.5 months (range 11.7 - 32.4). 
The estimated one-year survival was 57% in patients with prior SCT and 73% in those without prior 
SCT. The estimated 18-month survival for patients with one prior regimen was 86% compared to 55% 
and 50% for patients with two and more than two prior regimens. 
Relapse-free survival: 21/45 patients who achieved a CR have relapsed or died. Two of these patients 
relapsed after stem cell transplantation. The 1-year Kaplan-Meier estimate of relapse-free survival was 
64%, censoring follow-up at the time of stem cell transplantation (Table 6, Figure 2). 
Failure-free survival: At the time of last follow-up, 27/52 patients had either relapsed or died (1-year 
failure-free survival = 62%). 
Table 6 Summary of primary and secondary efficacy results 
No. of patients with CR 
95 % CI for CR rate 
97-66 
n=12 
11 (92%) 
[62%, 100%] 
PLRXAS01 
n=40 
34 (85%) 
[70%, 94%] 
Total 
n=52 
45 (87%) 
[74%, 94%] 
1-year OS 
18-month OS 
1-year RFS 
18-month RFS 
75% 
67% 
55% 
36% 
70% 
66% 
71% 
58% 
71% 
66% 
64%* 
NA 
*censoring at BMT 
Abbreviations: OS, overall survival; RFS, relapse-free survival; NA not available. 
Figure 1. Overall survival 
15/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Relapse-free survival 
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
0
Relapse-Free Survival (censoring at BMT)
Responders
At Risk
  45
Events
  19
1-Year
Estimate
64%
6
12
18
24
30
36
Months after CR
Clinical Safety 
The  safety  database consists  of the  data collected  for  251  patients  treated  with ATO,  divided  into 3 
populations for assessment (n=52, 58 and 141 patients based on the main clinical studies in APL, on 
clinical  trials  in  other  malignancies  and  from  the  compassionate  use  programme,  respectively). 
Patients who started treatment were considered evaluable for safety and all patients were included in 
the clinical safety analysis.  
Patient exposure 
Exposure data is summarised in tables 7-8. All patients but one received ATO for at least two weeks. 
Combining both main studies, the median cumulative number of doses administered during induction 
was  31.5  (range,  5-60).  The  median  cumulative  doses  during  consolidation  was  25  (range,  14-42), 
including the patient who received re-induction instead of consolidation. The median cumulative dose 
administered per patient during induction was 4.81 mg/kg (range, 0.75-9.) or 390 mg (range, 75-820). 
The median cumulative dose administered during consolidation was 3.74 mg/kg (range, 1.53-6) or 288 
mg  (range,  91.5-506).  For  the  25  patients  who  received  treatment  in  the  extension  protocols  the 
median  cumulative  number  of  doses administered  during  the  extension  treatment  was  9.4  (range,  3-
15). The total median cumulative doses, including induction, consolidation and extension treatment for 
52 patients in the pivotal and extension studies was 11.7 mg/kg (range, 0.75-27.9) or 905 mg (range, 
75-2886), including the patient who received re-induction instead of consolidation. 
16/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7. Patient exposure in the main studies 
Treatment Phase 
First to last dose (days)  Median  
Induction 
N=52 
34.0 
5.0  63.0 
Consolidation 
N=41 
Maintenance 
N=25 
I,  C  or  M* 
N=52 
30.0 
18.0  51.0 
173.0 
25.0  291.0 
114.0 
5.0  455.0 
3.69 
4.81 
3.74 
4.67 
1.53  6.05 
0.75   9.01 
390.00 
288.00 
75.00  819.83  91.50 
506.14 
9.51 
9.40 
3.72  15.30 
750.00 
275.00 1910.50 
12.29 
11.66 
0.75  27.91 
905.96 
75.00 2885.60 
Min Max  
Mean  
Median  
Min Max  
Median  
Min Max  
Mean  
Median  
Min Max  
32.6 
31.5 
5.0  60.0 
25.0 
25.0 
14.0  42.0 
65.7 
73.0 
25.0  100.0 
84.0 
78.0 
5.0  184.0 
Cum. dose (mg/kg)  
Cum. dose (mg)  
No. of doses  
41  (100%) 
(5%) 
2 
 (2%) 
1 
52  (100%) 
44  (85%) 
27  (52%) 
(8%) 
4 
n %  
>1 Dose 
n %  
>25 Doses 
n %  
>30 Doses 
n %  
>45 Doses  
n %  
>60 Doses 
n %  
>75 Doses 
n %  
>90 Doses 
n %  
>145 Doses 
n %  
>190 Doses  
* Induction, consolidation or maintenance course(s). 
25  (100%) 
20  (80%) 
20  (80%) 
20  (80%) 
13  (52%) 
(36%) 
9 
(32%) 
8 
52  (100%) 
50  (96%) 
47  (90%) 
39  (75%) 
32  (62%) 
27 
 (52%) 
19  (37%) 
11  (21%) 
(2%) 
1 
Table 8: Summary of patient exposure in clinical trials 
APL studies 
Extension studies 
Study 
N 
No.  of  days  between  1st 
and last dose 
Median 
Mean  number  of  doses 
administered 
Days 
Median  total  cumulative 
dose of ATO 
Mg 
97-66 
12 
97 
PLRXAS01 
40 
89.5 
98-13 
7 
180 
PLRXAS02 
18 
108.5 
(5-114) 
27.6 
(14-133) 
34.2 
(96-243) 
68 
(25-291) 
64 
(5-39) 
582.5 mg 
(14-60) 
679.3 mg 
(40-93) 
775 mg 
(25-100) 
668 mg 
Other 
hematologic 
malignancies 
98-23 
24 
30 
(2-187) 
27 
(2-75) 
375.75 
Advanced 
solid tumors 
98-46 
34 
22 
(3-131) 
8.4 
(3-25) 
131 mg 
(75-870) 
(115.5-1181.2) 
(440-1060) 
(275-1911) 
(19.8-1155) 
(31.8-630) 
Withdrawals due to Adverse Events in Pivotal Studies 
The  only  patient  who  discontinued  treatment  from  study  97-66  died  on  day  6  from  subarachnoid 
hemorrhage  and  cardiac  arrest  which  were  considered  unrelated  to  the  ATO  treatment.  Six  patients 
were  withdrawn  from  study  PLRXAS01  due  to  adverse  events,  four  of  which  were  serious.  Three 
patients were withdrawn due to events that proved fatal within a few days after withdrawal. 
Two coagulopathies associated with APL (GI bleeding leading to hypotension and stroke in one patient  
and  an  intracranial  hemorrhage  in  another  patient).  The  third  death  resulted  from  pulmonary 
aspergillosis that was present at the start of the study in a patient who had bone marrow and leukocyte 
remission  but  no  platelet  recovery  due  to  graft-versus-host-disease  from  a  prior  bone  marrow 
transplantation. None of the three deaths were considered related to ATO. 
One  patient  with  diffuse  alveolar  hemorrhage  necessitating  intubation  and  ventilation  discontinued 
protocol treatment. The event was considered probably related to APL but possibly related to ATO. The 
remaining two adverse events that lead to discontinuation were a Grade 3 neuropathy and a severe bone 
marrow necrosis with bone pain. 
17/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
Frequently  occurring  adverse  events  and  adverse  drug  reactions  for  the  main  clinical  studies  are 
summarised in tables 9-10.  
All  107  patients  experienced  some  drug-related  adverse  events.  The  most  common  adverse  events 
(occurring  in  20  patients  or  more)  were  fatigue  (76),  edema  (67),  nausea  (64),  hyperglycemia  (56), 
headache (52), pyrexia (50), diarrhea (44), vomiting (44), cough (43), dyspnea (41), tachycardia (39), 
hypokalemia (35), dermatitis (34), pruritus (31), sore throat (31), abdominal pain (30), insomnia (29), 
rigors  (29),  constipation  (27),  parasthesia  (27),  dizziness  (27),  arthralgia  (25),  blood  magnesium 
decreased  (24),  weight  gain  (23),  anxiety  (21),  anorexia  (20,  hypertension  (20).  The  most  common 
drug-related AE were hyperglycemia, fatigue, nausea, headache, hypokalemia, and parasthesia.  
Sixty-three  patients  (59%)  experienced  severe  or  life  threatening  (grade  3  and  4)  treatment-related 
adverse  events.  The  most  common  were  hyperglycemia  (12),  dyspnea  (11),  hypokalemia  (10), 
neutropenia (7), thrombocytopenia (7), fatigue (7), increased ALT (6), and hypoxia (6) (see Appendix 
2 Part I page 690-693). Thirty-seven (35%) experienced possibly, probably or related severe or life-
threatening  (grade  3  and  4)  treatment-emergent  AE.  Hypokalemia  (10),  hyperglycemia  (10), 
neutropenia (6), and increased ALT were the most common drug-related, severe and life-threatening 
adverse events. 
The  proportion  of  patients  experiencing  toxicity  was  similar  in  different  age,  gender,  ethnic  and 
weight groups. The number of prior regimens received or prior BMT did not increase the number of 
adverse events experienced by patients treated with ATO. 
Table  9.  Study  97-66:  Frequently  Occurring  Adverse  Events:    Number  (%)  of  Patients  with 
Events, Drug-Related Events, and Severe/LT Events 
Severe/LT 
10 (83%) 
3 
3 
1 
Nervous System 
General Disorders: 
Body System: 
Group Term  
Metabolism & Nutr.  Hyperglycemia NOS 
Hypokalemia 
Hypocalcemia 
Headache NOS 
Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Edema peripheral 
Nausea 
Diarrhea NOS 
Vomiting NOS 
Abdominal pain NOS 
Tachycardia NOS 
Cardiac 
Blood magnesium decreased 
Investigations 
Respiratory 
Dyspnea NOS 
Psychiatric Disorder  Anxiety NEC 
Blood and Lymphatic  Thrombocytopenia 
1 
Abbreviations: DR = Considered possibly or probably related to study drug by the investigator; LT = NCI Grade 4. 
Number of Patients (%) with Event 
DR 
All Events 
11 (92%) 
12 (100%) 
11 
12 
7 
4 
6 
9 
8 
8 
5 
8 
7 
6 
5 
7 
6 
5 
5 
5 
GI Disorders 
1 
3 
2 
1 
1 
2 
3 
1 
2 
2 
1 
18/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. 
Patientswith Events, Drug-Related Events, and Severe/LT Events 
Study  PLRXAS01:  Frequently  Occurring  Adverse  Events:    Number  (%)  of 
System Organ Class:  Group Term  
GI Disorders 
Nausea 
Vomiting NOS  
Diarrhea NOS 
Sore throat NOS 
Abdominal pain NOS 
Respiratory 
General Disorders:  Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Edema NOS 
Rigors 
Cough 
Dyspnea NOS 
Headache NOS 
Insomnia NEC 
Skin & SC disorders  Dermatitis NOS 
Metabolism & Nutr.  Hypokalemia  
Nervous System 
Cardiac 
Abbreviations: see Table 9. 
Hyperglycemia NOS 
Tachycardia NOS 
Serious Adverse Events  
Severe/LT 
27 (68%) 
Number of Patients (%) with Event 
DR 
All Events 
40 (100%) 
40 (100%) 
30 (75%) 
23 (58%) 
21 (53%) 
16 (40%) 
15 (38%) 
25 (63%) 
25 (63%) 
16 (40%) 
15 (38%) 
26 (65%) 
15 (38%) 
24 (60%) 
17 (43%) 
17 (43%) 
20 (50%) 
18 (45%) 
22 (55%) 
19 (48%) 
8 (20%) 
8 (20%) 
1 (3%) 
2 (5%) 
10 (25%) 
7 (18%) 
3 (8%) 
2 (5%) 
1 (3%) 
4 (10%) 
14 (35%) 
1 (3%) 
7 (18%) 
15 (38%) 
16 (40%) 
5 (13%) 
3 (8%) 
2 (5%) 
2 (5%) 
4 (10%) 
1 (3%) 
1 (3%) 
5 (13%) 
5 (13%) 
In  patients  with  haematological  malignancies,  37/107  patients  (34%)  experienced  61  related  serious 
adverse effects. 
Non-fatal SAEs in Main Clinical Studies 
Besides  non-fatal  serious  adverse  events  that  were  not  unexpected  in  this  population,  due  to  their 
underlying disease, detailed safety data on the recurrence of pulmonary or thoracic symptoms, EKG 
changes,  neurological  toxicities,  and  myelosuppression  was  presented.  Many  patients  experienced 
various thoracic symptoms including respiratory failure, with or without pulmonary hemorrhages, with 
or without hypotension and renal failure, with or without worsening DIC. Some patients had pleural or 
pericardial  effusions.  These  usually  occurred  during  the  first  three  weeks  of  ATO  treatment.  In  the 
minority of these patients, these events were classified as ATRA-like syndrome (“arsenic syndrome”). 
It is clear that ATRA-like syndrome may occur under ATO treatment in APL patients. 
ECG changes: ECG changes with or without prolonged QT interval were reported as serious adverse 
events possibly or probably related to ATO in three patients enrolled in the main studies. One patient 
had concomitant palpitations subsequently diagnosed as Torsade de Pointes (see further). 
Prolonged  QT/QTc  interval:  An  important  adverse  event  attributed  to  ATO  is  prolongation  of  the 
QT/QTc interval seen on electrocardiogram (ECG). Two patients from the pivotal PLRXAS01 study 
and two patients from the SAE only population presented QT prolongation under ATO administration. 
In one patient, QT interval was normal at baseline and had increase starting on day 7 with maximum 
values on day 21 and persistent prolonged QT until day 111. In another patient, a prolonged QT was 
noted at day 30 on routine ECG. This patient experienced a brief, spontaneously resolving episode of 
torsade  de  pointes  detected  on  telemetry  monitoring.  The  patient  went  onto  consolidation  treatment 
without further evidence of QT-prolongation.  
In  fact,  QT  prolongation  has  been  associated  with  torsade  de  pointes,  a  polymorphic  ventricular 
tachycardia that occurs in the setting of an abnormally long QT interval. This ventricular arrhythmia 
has been associated with episodes of syncope and sudden cardiac death. The most common cause for 
torsade de pointes is administration of drugs that prolong the QT interval. Congenital cases (Long-QT 
Syndrome  [LQTS])  have  been  described  and  relatively  large  numbers  of  individuals  have  been 
identified  who  carry  silent  mutations  on  LQTS  genes.  These patients  may  be  especially  sensitive  to 
drugs that affect potassium currents as these channels are affected by the abnormal genes. There are a 
number of baseline characteristics that identify a patient at increased risk for torsade de pointes. The 
following  are  risk  factors  associated  with  drug-induced  torsade  de  pointes:  female  gender, 
19/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypokalemia,  hypomagnesemia,  bradycardia,  diuretic  use,  recent  conversion  from  atrial  fibrillation, 
congestive  heart  failure  or  cardiomyopathy,  QT-prolongation  during  drug  administration,  baseline 
prolonged-QT.  Other  causes  of  prolonged  QT  such  as  hypocalcemia  or  hypothyroidism  are  rare 
causes.  There  are  a  number  of  drugs  commonly  used  in  cancer  patients  undergoing  induction 
chemotherapy, which are known to cause prolongation of QT, and other commonly used drugs which 
affect  metabolism  of  drugs  with  a  potential  to  cause  prolonged  QT.  The  treatment  for  torsade  de 
pointes  is  careful  attention  to  fluid  and  electrolyte  balance  and  administration  of  potassium  and 
magnesium to maintain this electrolyte well in the normal range. Cautious patient management should 
minimize the patient's risk of developing torsade de pointes. Management entails ECG monitoring of 
QT  prolongation  at  regular  intervals,  withholding  drug  when  a  threshold  of  >460  msec  has  been 
reached, monitoring electrolytes and maintaining potassium and magnesium levels within the normal 
range and judicious use of concomitant medications. 
An expert cardiology review of approximately 1,000 ECGs obtained in 99 patients receiving infusions 
of ATO confirmed that treatment with arsenic gradually prolongs the QT interval until steady state is 
reached.  In  this  group,  mean  QTc  prolongation  was  47  plus  or  minus  5  msec  and  the  half-time  for 
approach to steady state was 6 plus or minus 2 days. QTc prolongation resolved after discontinuation 
of  arsenic  infusions.  Infusions  of  arsenic  seemed  to  have  no  effect  on  AV  conduction  or 
intraventricular conduction except in a subject who developed transient atrial fibrillation with a right 
bundle branch block and slow ventricular response in the setting of severe hyperkalemia. Heart rate 
was increased by approximately 10 beats during therapy compared to baseline. This effect was noted 
immediately after the first infusion and did not increase further as therapy progressed. 
Peripheral  neuropathy:  Peripheral  neurological  events  were  reported  in  the  pivotal  and  supportive 
populations. Twenty-three patients reported paresthesias, most of which were mild to moderate. Mild 
and moderate peripheral neuropathic events were reported which resolved upon cessation of the drug. 
Neuropathic events were observed as follows: paresthesias (32), hypoesthesia (8), abnormal gait (5), 
peripheral  neuropathy  (5),  and  one  patient  each  reported  hyperesthesia,  hyporeflexia,  myasthenic 
syndrome,  unspecified  neurological  symptoms  and  peripheral  motor  neuropathy.  Two  patients  had 
severe paresthesias (1 hand and foot and the other associated with muscle weakness), which resulted 
in discontinuation early from study drug treatment. One APL patient who discontinued early during 
consolidation  went  on  to  the  extension  study  and  received  further  ATO  treatments,  which  were 
intermittently  held  while  his  neuropathy  improved  and  then  restarted.  There  were  no  grade  3  or  4 
peripheral  neuropathic  adverse  events  reported.  Seizures  were  reported  in  two  patients  in  the 
PLRXAS01 study (one patient at day 1 and 3 of ATO therapy and again later at day 28 and 31 in the 
context of a severe Gram-negative sepsis; in another patient, seizure activity occurred while the patient 
was under mechanical ventilation at day 32 of ATO treatment, leading to its discontinuation). Of note, 
peripheral neuropathy was not graded as a serious adverse event, except in one case of presumptive 
neuropathic pain (although neurologic examinations did not confirm this). 
Myelosuppression:  Chronic  exposure  to  arsenic  is  known  to  cause  myelodysplastic  features  in  the 
bone  marrow  associated  with  cytopenia.  Such  an  effect  is  hard  to  assess  in  patients  with  acute 
leukemia  during  the  first  induction  cycle  but  not  during  consolidation  and  maintenance  cycles.  The 
analysis of individual WBC counts before and during the consolidation and maintenance cycles (data 
not  shown)  showed  that  approximately  40%  of  these  treatment  courses  were  associated  with  a 
significant  decrease  in  WBC.  Treatment-related  neutropenia  was  usually  mild.  Febrile  neutropenia 
was observed in patient (at the end of the consolidation cycle). 
Non-fatal SAEs in supportive Studies 
In  study  98-23  (patients  with  advanced  hematologic  malignancies),  non-fatal  serious  adverse  events 
were  mainly  non-documented  or  documented  infections  in  10  patients.  One  patient  experienced 
hemolysis  on  day  16,  following  a  RBC  transfusion.  Two  patients  (1062  and  1069)  had  abdominal 
symptoms related to an underlying chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in one patient and to a Clostridium 
difficile  infection  in  the  other  one.  These  events  were  not  related  to  ATO  treatment.  One  patient 
experienced  an  asymptomatic  QT  prolongation  (570  ms)  associated  with  a  decrease  in  serum 
potassium to 2.9, on day 36. This event was considered possibly related to ATO (1107). In 7 cases, 
ATO was discontinued due to adverse events. 
In study 98-46 (patients with advanced solid tumors), non-fatal adverse events were mainly related to 
cancer  progression  (10  events  in  10  patients).  One  patient  (1080)  with  a  history  of  adult  onset  DM 
presented  a  severe  hyperglycemia  with  serum  glucose  621  mg/dL  related  to  ATO.  A  75-year-old 
20/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
patient  experienced  severe  fatigue  and  severe  increased  ALT  related  to  ATO.  In  3  cases,  ATO  was 
discontinued due to adverse event. 
Among  the  141  patients  treated  in  compassionate  use,  25  patients  had  a  total  of  29  serious  adverse 
events. Thirteen patients died. Study drug was discontinued in 16 patients due to SAE. Fifteen patients 
experienced  related  SAE  including  fatal  atra  syndrome  (1),  fatal  sepsis  (1),  diarrhea  and  abdominal 
pain  (1),  fatal  pain  hypotension  and  hypoxia  (1),  dyspnea  (1),  bone  pain  and  neutropenic  fever  (1), 
grade 3 neutropenia (1), neuropathy (2), worsening headache (1), fatal cerebral edema (1), fatal CNS 
infarct (1), QTc prolongation (1), myocardial injury (1), spontaneous abortion (1).  
Deaths 
In the 97-66 study, one patient died due to cerebral haemorrhage on day 6 after receiving 5 doses of 
ATO.  Two  additional  patients  died  within  30  days  after  last  study  treatment,  both  in  the  context  of 
APL progression after one induction and one consolidation ATO cycle. No deaths were considered to 
be related to ATO and were instead considered consistent with the known complications of APL. In 
the  PLRXAS01  study,  no  patients  died  while  receiving  study  treatment,  but  three  patients  were 
withdrawn due to SAEs that proved fatal within a few days after the withdrawals. Two of the three 
deaths were due to coagulopathies (one GI bleed leading to hypotension and stroke in one patient and 
one  intracranial  haemorrhage  in  another  patient)  associated  with  APL.  Neither of  these  patients  had 
achieved CR before the time of death.  The third death resulted from pulmonary aspergillosis that was 
present  at  study  start  in  a  patient  who  had  bone  marrow  and  leukocyte  remission,  but  no  platelet 
recovery due to GVHD from a prior BMT. Again, none of these deaths was considered to be related to 
ATO treatment. 
Concerning  supportive  studies,  five  deaths  have  been  reported  on-study  in  study  98-23.  All  were 
considered  to  be  related  to  the  underlying  disease  progression  (1  refractory  APL,  1  AML,  3  non-
Hodgkin lymphomas). No deaths on-study or within 30 days after last study drug have been reported 
in study 98-46. 
21/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11 : Number of patients with possibly or probably related SAEs. 
System Organ Class  
Preferred Term  
All Body Systems  
Blood 
system disorders   
and 
lymphatic 
Metabolism  and  nutrition 
disorders    
Nervous system disorders  
Cardiac disorders  
Vascular disorders  
Respiratory,  thoracic  and 
mediastinal disorders  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Skin  & subcutaneous tissue 
disorders  
Musculoskeletal,  connective 
tissue and bone disorders   
disorders 
General 
administration 
conditions     
and 
site 
Investigations  
All terms  
All terms  
Febrile neutropenia  
Leucocytosis NOS  
Leucopenia NOS  
Neutropenia  
Thrombocytopenia  
All terms  
Hyperglycaemia NOS  
Hypermagnesaemia  
Hypernatraemia  
Hypokalaemia  
Ketoacidosis  
All terms  
Paraesthesia NEC  
All terms  
Pericardial effusion  
Tachycardia NOS  
All terms  
Vasculitis NOS  
All terms  
Dyspnoea NOS  
Hypoxia  
Pleural effusion  
Pleuritic pain  
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage  
All terms  
Abd pain upper  
Diarrhoea NOS  
All terms  
Erythema NEC  
Pruritus NOS  
All terms  
Arthralgia  
Back pain  
Bone pain  
Bone pain aggravated  
Myalgia  
Pain in limb  
All terms  
Chest pain NEC  
Fatigue  
Fatigue aggravated  
Pain NOS  
Pyrexia  
All terms  
ALT increased  
AST increased  
Biopsy 
abnormal  
Blood bilirubin increased  
bone  marrow 
alveolar 
magnesium 
Blood 
decreased  
ECG QT prolonged  
97-66 
N=12  
6 
98-13 
N=7  
1 
1 
AS01 
N=40  
19 
5 
1 
1 
AS02 
N=18  
5 
2 
98-23 
N=24  
7 
98-46 
N=34  
4 
1 
1 
4 
2 
1 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
3 
1 
7 
4 
5 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
4 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
4 
2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
5 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 
3 
2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
Total 
N=107 
37 
8 
1 
1 
1 
6 
2 
15 
10 
1 
1 
10 
1 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
6 
3 
1 
1 
2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
4 
2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
7 
1 
2 
1 
1 
2 
12 
6 
2 
1 
1 
1 
3 
Clinical laboratory evaluations 
Hematology and coagulation profile: Given the hematological perturbations related to the presence of 
the  underlying  disease,  it  is  difficult to  assess the  hematological consequences of  ATO  treatment  in 
patients enrolled in the pivotal studies. Hyperleukocytosis that occurred during induction cycle in APL 
patients only and putative myelosuppression that might occurred after prolonged ATO administration 
22/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
in all patients are discussed above. Coagulation disorders occurring during the induction cycle in APL 
patients were considered as clearly related to the underlying leukemia. 
Clinical  chemistry:  The  most  recurrent  and  relevant  abnormalities  are  hypokalemia,  hyperglycemia 
and  increased  liver  enzymes  levels.  These  abnormalities  are  not  unexpected  in  such  a  complicated 
patient  population.  However,  the  recurrence  of  hyperglycemia  and  mild  hepatic  toxicity  during  the 
second consolidation cycle has to be noted. 
Hepatic toxicity including increased total bilirubin, SGOT, SGPT, and/or alkaline phosphatase values 
may be considered to be related to ATO administration. However, no patient met the protocol-defined 
criteria for significant hepatic toxicity (5 x baseline for SGOT, bilirubin, or alkaline phosphatase) and 
there  was  no  treatment  discontinuation  for  this  reason.  Of  note  the  elevation  was  transient  and 
reversible in the majority of patients with either treatment or the discontinuation of ATO. 
Vital  signs  and  weight:  Weight  gain  (23%)  and  hypotension  (20%)  were  usually  observed  in  APL 
patients.  Both  symptoms  may  be  related  to  the  differentiation  syndrome  (“arsenic  syndrome”),  as 
observed  under  ATRA  therapy  (ATRA  syndrome).  This  syndrome  is  discussed  in  the  following 
section. 
and 
arsenic 
syndrome 
(differentiation 
syndrome):  Two 
Hyperleukocytosis 
syndromes 
(hyperleukocytosis  and  differentiation  syndrome)  have  been  associated  with  ATO  and  other 
differentiation  agents  in  the  treatment  of  APL  that  are  thought  to  confer  increased  morbidity. 
Differentiation  syndrome  (ATRA  syndrome  and  arsenic  syndrome)  are  often  linked  to  a  clinical 
syndrome manifested by fever, weight gain, hypotension, dyspnea, pulmonary infiltrates, and pleural 
or pericardial effusions with or without marked increase in WBC. This syndrome is considered as a 
clinical  consequence  of  APL  cell  activation  during  the  differentiation  process.  Recommended 
treatment is to initiate high dose steroids (dexamethasone 10 mg twice a day for 3 to 5 days) at the 
first  suspected  sign  or  symptom  of  the  syndrome.  Cytotoxic  chemotherapeutic  intervention  and/or 
leukopheresis  may  be  indicated  in  cases  of  life-threatening  hyperleukocytosis.  Hyperleukocytosis  is 
not a prerequisite for differentiation syndrome, nor does every patient with hyperleukocytosis develop 
a clinical differentiation syndrome. As mentioned before, the presence of a differentiation syndrome 
requiring  the  introduction  of  steroid  therapy  may  be  difficult  to  diagnose,  especially  in  patients 
without  associated  hyperleukocytosis.  Many  signs  may  be  confounded  with  infection-related 
symptoms which theoretically contra-indicate steroid administration. Furthermore, the duration of the 
differentiation  process  that  may  reach  3  or  4  weeks  and  therefore  may  result  in  prolonged  steroid 
administration in these patients.  
Four patients had SAEs reported as differentiation syndrome during ATO treatment. Twelve patients 
had hyperleukocytosis, 4 of whom had values above 100,000/µL. One patient treated under the NCI 
compassionate  use  program  died  from  cerebral  infarct  and  had  concomitant  hyperleukocytosis.  No 
markers  to  identify  patients  at  higher  risk  for  developing  either  differentiation  syndrome  or 
hyperleukocytosis were found. 
Coagulation disorders: Other adverse events associated with APL are coagulation disorders including 
DIC. This syndrome is characteristic of APL and also thought to be worse in patients with treatment-
induced hyperleukocytosis. The majority (41 of 52) pivotal patients had symptomatic DIC at baseline. 
Treatment  with  ATO  did  not  appear  to  exacerbate  the  incidence  of  DIC.    Mortality  in  the  pivotal 
studies from DIC associated hemorrhage was approximately 11%, consistent with the 10 to 15% early 
mortality reported in the literature. 
Late adverse events 
Relationship between chronic arsenic ingestion and the development of skin and internal cancers has 
been reported.  A recent  study  from  Taiwan reported  a  dose-response  relationship  between  the long-
term arsenic exposure to high-inorganic arsenic artesian well water and the incidence of lung, bladder, 
and all sites cancers. In multivariate analysis, a cumulative arsenic exposure > 20 mg/liter x duration 
of drinking artesian well water (year) was predictive of cancer development. Over the 7-year follow-
up of this study, such a cumulative arsenic exposure corresponds to a cumulative ingested dose of 25 
to 50 gr. 
A  quantitative  assessment  performed  by  the  EPA  using  Taiwan  data  showed  that  for  the  U.S. 
population,  the  risk  of  developing  skin  cancer  from  lifetime  exposure  to  ingested  arsenic  of 
1 ug/kg/day ranges from 1 to 2 individuals per 1000. Assuming a 70 year lifetime and an average body 
weight of 70 kg, a cumulative exposure to arsenic of 1800 mg is associated with a risk of skin cancer 
23/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
in 1-2 individuals per 1000. Other studies have suggested an elevated, but  not quantifiable, risk for 
cancer of internal organs from exposure to arsenic. 
The  median  cumulative  dose  of  ATO  for  APL  patients  treated  with  induction,  consolidation,  and 
maintenance was 906 mg (range 75 to 2886 mg). One milligram of ATO contains 0.757 mg of arsenic, 
so the median exposure to arsenic was 686 mg (range 57 to 2185 mg). The maximum arsenic exposure 
is approximately equal to the cumulative dose of arsenic associated with an incidence of 1 to 2 cases 
of skin cancer per 1,000 people. 
It was therefore considered very unlikely that the extent of exposure to ATO in these patients might 
represent  a  significant  factor  for  further  cancer  development  and  the  demonstrated  benefit  for  APL 
patients receiving ATO therapy clearly outweighs the potential risk for subsequent cancer. 
Drug interactions 
No  formal  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  performed.  Drugs  that  can  potentially  bind  to  arsenic 
like N-acetyl cysteine, chelators or antioxidants like vitamin E may block the activity of ATO. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Although the safety database is based on a small number of patients, the data presented are sufficient 
to assess the safety profile of ATO. The duration of exposure and the median total cumulative dose of 
ATO reported were higher for APL-patients than for non-APL patients.  
The toxicity observed was not unexpected with ATO. The main toxicity included metabolism disorder 
including  hyperglycemia  and  hypokalaemia,  respiratory  disorder  and  ALT  increase.  Seven  patients 
(13%)  were  withdrawn  due  to  adverse  effect.  No  patient  died  from  toxicity.  Twenty  six  patients 
(44.8%) experienced nonfatal serious adverse events. Only three cases were treatment-related serious 
adverse events.  
Ten patients (17%) have discontinued ATO treatment due to adverse events. In the main studies, only 
3  patients  (5.7%)  were  withdrawn  from  studies  due  to  related  adverse  effects.  In  this  context  of 
relapsed or refractory leukemia, this percentage is low. 
Particular caution is requested in patients with renal failure receiving ATO, as renal excretion is the 
main route of elimination of arsenic. Recommendations on monitoring of the patient are included in 
the SPC. 
QT prolongation was a serious concern. Additional data regarding the predictability and the degree of 
QT prolongation and torsade de pointes were requested. The applicant provided data from previously 
treated patients (survivors from pivotal study and patients from ongoing studies) with cardiac toxicity. 
The applicant also submitted a US “dear health provider” on QT prolongation and risk of torsade de 
pointes in March 2001, due to a recent publication of Unnikrishnan reporting 3 cases of QT interval 
prolongation  with  torsade  de  pointes.  Two  patients  died  from  cardiac  arrythmia.  These  cardiac 
toxicities were collected with another ATO. The applicant reminded that 40% of patients treated with 
ATO experienced at least one QT interval prolongation greater than 500msec, with one non fatal case 
of  torsade  de  pointes.  Prolongation  of  QTc  was  observed  between  1  and  5  weeks  of  daily  ATO 
infusion, and returned to baseline by the end of 8 weeks after Trisenox infusion. This last information 
was added in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
Adequate  recommendations  are  provided  in  the  SPC  including  monitoring  of  electrocardiogram, 
electrolytes  and  renal  function  (see  Special  precautions  for  use).  Recommendations  for  monitoring 
and  treating  hyperleukocytosis  and  leukocyte  activation  syndrome  (APL  differentiation  syndrome) 
have also been provided in the SPC, section 4.4. 
5.  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  important  quality  characteristics  of  ATO  are  well  defined  and  controlled,  and  the  product  is 
formulated, manufactured and controlled in a way that is characteristic of a solution for injection. The 
specifications  and  batch  analytical  results  indicate  a  consistent  product  with  uniform  clinical 
performance  from  batch  to  batch.  There  are  no  outstanding  quality  issues,  which  have  a  negative 
impact on the benefit/risk balance. 
24/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
There are no substantial problems in toxicology, since the effects of ATO have been studied for a long 
time.  The  compound’s  safety  profile  and  the  doses  proposed  for  this  specific  therapy  are  not  of 
particular  concern  as  long  as  the  recommendations  of  the  SPC  are  carefully  followed.  A  better 
understanding  of  the  ATO  mechanism  of  action  could  help  optimise  the  dose,  since  the  one  now 
proposed is based on empirical criteria.  
Efficacy 
The  dose  used  (0.15  mg/kg/d)  was  approximately  50%  of  the  maximum  tolerated  dose.  Intravenous 
infusion of 10 mg ATO daily for one to two months was observed to induce significant CR of APL, 
and  there  was  no  cross-resistance  between  ATO  and  other  anti-leukaemic  agents,  including  ATRA. 
Nevertheless, there is no conclusive data to establish that the chosen dose and duration of treatment 
are the most effective and safe ones. The rationale for restricting the number of treatment days to 50 
courses is that only four patients received more than 44 doses in the 2 clinical trials. It is possible to 
conclude that if a patient does not achieve a bone marrow remission within 50 days then it is unlikely 
that further dosing will be effective (see SPC, section 4.2, Posology and method of administration). 
Eleven of 12 and 34 of 40 patients achieved CR :overall CR rate: 87%. The CR rate observed with 
ATO  was  comparable  to  that  of  90%  with  ATRA  combined  with  intensive  timed  sequential 
chemotherapy,  reported  in  a  recent  study  in  patients that  had relapsed  from  prior  chemotherapy  (11 
patients) or ATRA/chemotherapy (39 patients) after a median first complete remission of 17 months 
(Thomas et al., 2000). The patient population in the Thomas paper was in 1st relapse, had age ≤ 65, 
and  did  not  have  a  prior  marrow  transplant.    In  the  ATO  patients,  ½  the  patients  were  in  2nd  or 
subsequent relapse, 15% were over age 65, and 13% had a prior transplant before ATO treatment.The 
efficacy of ATO in terms of a high rate of CR in relapsed APL patients is promising. However, the 
induction of remission with ATO is oftenwas not sufficient to obtain molecular remission in 22% of 
cases  (16%  excluding  patients  that  were  not  evaluated)  and  its  better  efficacy  in  combination  with 
ATRA  or  chemotherapy  should  be  tested  in  terms  of  rate  of  molecular  remission  and  duration  of 
clinical remission.  
Now it is known that after CR in relapsed patients, chemotherapy in combination with ATO as post-
remission  therapy  gives  better  survival  than  ATO  alone.  This  is  in  line  with  the  observation  that 
remission  induction  with  ATO  is  not  sufficient  in  most  cases  to  obtain  a  molecular  remission,  as 
judged by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction for PML-RAR alpha fusion transcripts. The 
in  vivo  effect  of  ATO  seems  to  be  related  to  the  expression  of  APL-specific  PML-RAR  alpha 
oncoprotein,  and  a  synergistic  effect  between  ATO  and  ATRA  has  been  shown  in  the  APL  mouse 
model. Like with ATRA in APL, early relapses within a few months after ATO treatment were not 
infrequent (10% within six months), possibly, indicating that resistance to ATO. can emerge rapidly. 
In the follow-up of relapsed cases over 7 to 48 months, the estimated disease-free survival (DFS) rate 
at  two years  was  41%,  and  the  median  DFS  was  17 months.  Patients  with  white  blood  cell  (WBC) 
count below 10 x 109/L at relapse had better survival than those with WBC count over 10 x 109/L. 
The follow-up is still too short to draw firm conclusions, and there is no clear evidence that despite the 
high  remission  rate  achieved  with  ATO  in  relapsed  APL  patients,  this  single  agent  can  guarantee 
sustained  long-term  remission.  Several  competing  strategies  have  successful  in  the  treatment  of 
clinical or molecular relapse in APL including combinations of ATRA and chemotherapy, autologous 
and  allogeneic  transplantation  and,  more  recently,  monoclonal  antibodies  against  CD33.  Therefore, 
prospective clinical trials based on ATO in combination with ATRA or chemotherapy must formally 
provide evidence of prolonged clinical activity as measured by molecular monitoring and duration of 
clinical remission. It is acknowledged that randomised studies in this population are difficult to carry 
out due to the rarity of APL, especially in relapse situations as the occurrence of relapse has recently 
decreased because of new therapeutic strategies (ATRA plus anthracycline-based chemotherapy). The 
applicant has committed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ATO in frontline APL in a randomised 
controlled clinical trial. This will help to further define therapeutic strategy with ATO, and controlled 
study in relapse situation does not seem necessary.  
In  conclusion, the  results in  terms  of  clinical  efficacy  presented  so  far  in relapsed  APL  patients  are 
promising.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  undertake,  among  others,  randomised  clinical  trials  to 
evaluate  the  role  of  combining  ATO  with  ATRA  versus  ATRA  alone  in  the  treatment  of  newly 
25/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
diagnosed APL patients who are not eligible for the current therapeutic regimens based on ATRA and 
chemotherapy. 
Safety 
The  safety  profile  of  ATO  in  the  data  presented  showed  adverse  effects  that  were  not  unexpected: 
metabolism  disorders  (hyperglycemia,  hypokalemia),  respiratory  disorders  (hypoxia,  dyspnea), 
hematological  disorders  (neutropenia,  thrombocytopenia,  and  differentiation  syndrome),  peripheral 
neuropathy, and increased alanine aminotransferase. 
A particular concern with ATO treatment was QT prolongation: 40 % of patients treated with ATO 
experienced at least one QT interval prolongation greater than 500 ms, with one non fatal case of TDP. 
Furthermore, QT interval prolongation with torsades de pointes (TDP) were recently reported in ATO 
treated patients (Unnikrishnan et al., Blood 2001; 97). The mechanism of QTc prolongation remains 
unknown. The applicant has committed to provide a pharmacokinetic study in which blood samples 
will  be  collected  at  specified  times  in  conjunction  with  serial  ECG’s  to  adequately  characterise  the 
concentration of ATO and its methylated metabolites versus time profile and QT measurements. In the 
lack of clear predictive and prognosis factors, regular assessments of QT intervals are necessary, and 
constant  ECG  monitoring  is  possibly  required  at  the  beginning  of  induction  treatment:  such 
recommendations are included in the SPC. 
Concerning  treatment-related  deaths,  no  fatal  drug  reactions  were  observed  with  in  ATO  studies 
(despite a more heavily pre-treated population) whilst this was close to 10% in patients treated with 
ATRA+chemotherapy, in the same setting. 
In conclusion, in the particular context of the proposed indication, Trisenox presented an acceptable 
safety profile, even if some particular concerns remained in the monitoring some adverse events, i.e: 
differentiation syndrome, respiratory disorders, and increased liver enzymes. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The mainstay of APL management is currently based on ATRA plus chemotherapy, which has been 
shown to be superior to either chemotherapy or ATRA alone. However, a small proportion of patients 
(approximately  15%)  are  refractory  to  ATRA  plus  chemotherapy-induced  remission  and  30-40% 
experience relapse a number of years after remission. Thus a proportion of APL patients would benefit 
from active alternative treatment. 
Following initial assessment, the CPMP’s concerns related mainly to the lack of control group in the 
submitted  clinical  studies,  the  QT  interval  prolongation,  the  selected  dosage,  and  to  the  lack  of 
pharmacokinetic  and  safety  data  in  specific  populations  (patients  with  renal  failure  or  liver 
impairment). 
Despite  the  lack  of  randomised  controlled  studies,  the  CR  observed  with  ATO  in  the  clinical  trials 
presented shows that Trisenox has at least similar clinical efficacy to that reported in published series 
that investigated treatment with ATRA+chemotherapy in patients with relapsed disease. However, the 
relatively short follow-up for the ATO trials does not guarantee that long-term remission is maintained 
in  a  high  proportion  of  patients.  Also,  the  induction  of  clinical  remission  with  ATO  was  often  not 
sufficient  to  obtain  molecular  remission  in  22%  of  cases  (16%  excluding  patients  that  were  not 
evaluated)  and  therefore,  combination  treatment  of  ATO  with  ATRA  or  chemotherapy  should  be 
tested in order to improve the rate of molecular remission and duration of clinical remission. Because 
of the few patients studied or the lack of evidence of particular benefit, the efficacy-safety profile of 
ATO in certain subgroups, such as patients with early relapse after ATRA, with contra-indications to 
anthracycline, with prior or eligible for SCT, and elderly patients, is still not defined. Other strategies, 
such  as  combinations  of  ATRA  and  intensive  chemotherapy,  autologous  and  allogeneic  BMT,  and 
monoclonal  antibodies  against  CD33,  are  now  available  for  the  treatment  of  clinical  and  molecular 
relapses  and  some  of  these  alternative  approaches  should  be  compared  with  ATO,  even  in  patients 
apparently suitable for ATO treatment. 
ATO was associated with potentially serious toxicity and vigilant monitoring is warranted. Compared 
to existing regimens, however, ATO showed a more favourable toxicity profile in terms of treatment-
related deaths. These were observed in up to 10% of patients in the published series, whilst none were 
observed in the trials with Trisenox. 
Overall,  the  activity  observed  with  ATO  is  promising  in  terms  of  clinical  efficacy  in  the  proposed 
indication,  which  represents  a  disease  setting  in  which  so  far  patients  could  only  benefit  of  few 
treatment  options.  Due  to  the  rarity  of  the  indication,  it  is  considered  that  the  applicant  cannot 
26/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
reasonably  be  expected  to  provide  comprehensive  evidence  in  respect  of  the  particular  therapeutic 
indication  in  relapsed  disease.  To  this  end,  the  Applicant  has  committed  to  complete  an  agreed 
programme  of  studies  within  a  specified  timeframe,  the  results  of  which  shall  form  the  basis  of  an 
annual reassessment of the benefit/risk profile. 
The programme of studies includes: 
  Phase I Study of Trisenox (arsenic trioxide) injection in Patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma 
  Phase  III  randomized  study  of  concurrent  tretinoin  and  chemotherapy  with  or  without  arsenic 
trioxide (As2O3) as initial consolidation therapy followed by maintenance with intermittent tretinoin 
therapy  versus  intermittent  tretinoin  plus  mercaptopurine  and  methotrexate  for  patients  with 
untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia. 
  Phase II Study of Arsenic Trioxide in Patients with APL in Molecular Relapse 
In  addition,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  specifically  address  several  issues  within  the  context  of 
ongoing or new clinical trials:  
  To present a survey of Trisenox  injection in Adult Cancer Patients with Renal Dysfunction 
  To study the relationship between pharmacokinetics and QT prolongation in APL patients  
  To assess the value of ATO in consolidation treatment for patients at high-risk of relapse 
  To provide valuable prospective information on the therapeutic implications of a positive or negative 
RT-PCR 
  To evaluate the value of combining ATO with ATRA versus ATRA alone in the treatment of newly 
diagnosed APL patients who are not eligible for the current therapeutic regimens based on ATRA 
and chemotherapy 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Trisenox for induction of remission and consolidation in adult patients 
with relapsed/refractory acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL), characterised by the presence of the 
t(15;17) translocation and/or the presence of the Pro-Myelocytic Leukaemia/Retinoic-Acid-Receptor-
alpha (PML/RAR-alpha) gene (previous treatment should have included a retinoid and chemotherapy), 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation under 
exceptional circumstances, to be reviewed annually. 
27/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
