29 May 2009 
EMA/241333/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Trisenox 
arsenous acid anhydride 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/388/Article 45 044 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 45 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
Disclaimer:  The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new 
corporate identity in December 2009. This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently 
produced by the Agency.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Trisenox  (arsenic  trioxide  or  ATO)  is  a  trivalent  inorganic  arsenical  formulated  as  a  sterile  injectable 
solution, approved for the following therapeutic indication: « Induction of remission and consolidation 
in  adult  patients  with  relapsed/refractory  acute  promyelocytic  leukaemia  (APL),  characterised  by  the 
presence of the t(15 ;17) translocation and/or the presence of the Pro-Myelocytic Leukaemia/Retinoic-
Acid-Receptor-alpha  (PML/RAR-alpha)  gene.  Previous  treatment  should  have  included  a  retinoid  and 
chemotherapy ». 
Trisenox  is  administered  as  an  intravenous  infusion  for  induction  treatment  at  a  fixed  dose  of  0.15 
mg/kg/day  given  daily  until  the  bone  marrow  remission  is  achieved  without  overage  50  doses. 
Consolidation treatment must begin 3 to 4 weeks after completion of induction therapy at the rate of 
0.15 mg/kg/day for 25 doses given over 5 weeks (5 days per a week). 
The current European labelling information is the following: “Paediatric use: The experience in children 
is limited. Of 7 patients less than 18 years of age (range 5 to 16 years) treated with TRISENOX at the 
recommended  dose  of  0.15  mg/kg/day,  5  patients  achieved  a  complete  response.  Safety  and 
effectiveness in paediatric patients under 5 years of age have not been studied.” 
On  December  12th,  2008,  the  Marketing  authorisation  holder  (MAH)  submitted  one  completed 
paediatric  study  (CTI  1059)  for  Trisenox,  in  accordance  with  Article  45  of  the  Regulation  (EC)  No 
1901/2006, as amended on medicinal products for paediatric use. 
The MAH stated that the submitted paediatric study does not influence the benefit risk for Trisenox and 
that there is no consequential regulatory action. 
In addition, the following documentation has been included as per the procedural guidance: 
•  a phase I trial and pharmacokinetic study (T99 080): Results are only available as a publication 
•  a phase III study : Preliminary results are only available as a press release and an abstract. 
Documents  are  evaluated  separately  in  section  II.3.2  and  benefit  risk  ratio  is  discussed  in  section 
II.3.4. 
1.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the clinical 
studies 
In CTI 1059 study, the investigational product was arsenic trioxide injection (Trisenox®) supplied by Cell Therapeutics, 
Inc (CTI). In T99 080 study, Trisenox® was supplied by the cancer therapy evaluation Program, NCI (Bethesda, MD). 
1.2.  Non-clinical aspects  
The MAH did not submit non-clinical studies.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 2/13 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3.  Clinical aspects 
1.4.  Introduction  
First, Cephalon submitted, in December 2008, a phase I trial publication, a phase II clinical study 
report, a phase II press release and a set of publications. 
The MAH submitted report for CTI 1059: Phase II Study of Arsenic Trioxide in Neuroblastoma and 
Other Pediatric Solid Tumors. The objectives of this study were to determine response rates of patients 
treated with arsenic trioxide for relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma or other poor-prognosis 
paediatric solid tumors and to determine toxicity of arsenic trioxide in a patient population that has 
been heavily treated with agents different than those used in the treatment of acute promyelocytic 
leukemia (APL). 
The MAH submitted a publication for Study T99 080 Phase I trial and pharmacokinetic of arsenic 
trioxide in children and adolescents with refractory or relapsed acute leukemia including acute 
promyeolocytic leukemia or lymphoma, a collaborative study of the pediatric oncology branch, national 
cancer institute and the children’s oncology group. 
The MAH submitted an abstract and a press release for CALGB C9710, Consolidation with arsenic 
trioxide (As2O3) significantly improves event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) among 
patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). 
This randomized phase III study was conducted by 5 cooperative groups (CALGB, ECOG, SWOG, COG, 
NCIC-CTG). It was designed to evaluate the benefit and toxicity of two 25-day courses of As2O3 as 
first post-remission therapy for newly diagnosed patients with APL. 
Secondly, Cephalon submitted, in March 2009, a cover letter and a clinical overview, the conclusion of 
which is reported below: 
Arsenic trioxide (TRISENOX) at 0.15 mg/kg/day (approved posology in EU and US) has an acceptable 
safety profile in children and adolescents with relapsed or refractory leukaemia. Limiting toxicity 
observed is similar in terms of frequency and characteristics to previously published data in adult 
patients.  
As for adult patients, careful monitoring of QTc interval and correction of hypomagnesaemia, 
hypokaliaemia, or hypocalcaemia are warranted.  
For obese children and adolescents, TRISENOX dosing using ideal body weight should be considered.  
In children with relapsed or refractory APL, morphologic and cytologic responses can be achieved which 
places TRISENOX as the most effective agent in this setting.  
Although the small number of children and adolescents treated (from 2 to 18 years), the response rate 
was found similar to the response rate in adults. TRISENOX can be considered as an appropriate 
treatment of relapsed or refractory APL paediatric population.  
However, no efficacy was observed in Neuroblastoma and non-APL leukaemia.  
Given the rarity of the relapsed/refractory Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia (APL) disease in paediatric 
population, limited information is provided in the current SmPC in this population, ranging from 5 to 16 
years. Based on the new information available from the T-99-080 study, we propose to amend the 
SmPC to include updated information on efficacy and safety on Trisenox in paediatric patients ranging 
from 4 to 18 years. It is proposed to amend the following sections of the SmPC:  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 3/13 
 
 
 
 
- Section 4.1: to broaden the current indication to paediatric patients in addition to adult patients,  
- Section 4.2: to update the paediatric use section of the posology with the new safety and efficacy 
information available from the T-99-080 study.  
1.5.  Clinical studies 
CTI 1059: PHASE II STUDY OF ARSENIC TRIOXIDE IN NEUROBLASTOMA AND OTHER PEDIATRIC 
SOLID TUMORS.  
Cephalon’s summary 
  Description 
This phase II study was conducted from April 2001 to June 2004 at Memorial Sloan-Ketting Cancer 
Center, New York. 
  Methods 
•  Objective(s) 
The objectives of this study were to determine response rates of patients treated with arsenic trioxide 
for relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma or other poor-prognosis pediatric solid tumors and to 
determine toxicity of arsenic trioxide in a patient population that has been heavily treated with agents 
different from those used in the treatment of acute promyelocytic Leukemia (APL). 
•  Study design 
Patients were treated with arsenic trioxide 0.25 mg/kg/day IV for 5 consecutive days, followed by no 
treatment for 2 days, then treatment for another 5 consecutive days, then no treatment for 14 days. If 
patients had no evidence of disease progression, remained medically stable, and had not experienced 
grade 4 drug-related toxicity, they could be retreated for up to 6 cycles. 
Disease response was assessed after every 3 cycles of treatment and then, if the disease had 
responded, every 2-3 months through 1 year after completion of arsenic trioxide. Response 
was measured according to the tumor in question, including bone marrow aspirations and biopsy 
specimens from bilateral iliac crests; CT or MRI of primary site and of potential sites of metastases 
(e.g., lungs); scintigraphic studies such as PET scan, bone scan, gallium scan, or MIBG scan; or 
biochemical tumor markers (e.g., serum alpha-fetoprotein, urine catecholamines). 
Toxicities were assessed from the time of first study treatment until the follow-up visit 4 weeks after 
the last dose of study drug according to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC), Version 2.  
Baseline assessments were relevant history and physical examination (including tumor 
measurements), neurological examination, complete blood count, clinical chemistry, serum or urinary 
human chorionic gonadotropin assay (or other suitable test to assess pregnancy status) in women of 
child-bearing potential, other blood tests as needed to assess disease status (e.g., serum lactate 
dehydrogenase [LDH]), electrocardiogram (ECG), and chest X-ray. Complete blood count and clinical 
chemistry were assessed before each cycle and at end of weeks 1 and 2. Serum sodium, potassium, 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 4/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chloride, bicarbonate, magnesium, calcium were assessed each day of treatment with ATO. ECG was 
performed in each treatment week and at the end of each 4-week cycle. 
The study was to employ the SWOG two-stage design27 to evaluate the activity and safety of arsenic 
trioxide in patients with neuroblastoma and other poor-risk pediatric solid tumors. However, the study 
was ended prematurely and the first stage was not completed in any of the 3 subgroups. 
•  Study population /Sample size 
This was designed as a 2-stage study in which 15 patients would be enrolled in each of 3 subgroups 
(neuroblastoma patients with progressive disease at study entry, neuroblastoma patients with stable 
disease at study entry, and patients with diagnoses other than neuroblastoma) in the first stage, with 
an additional 25 patients enrolled in any subgroup if a response was seen. If no response was seen in 
the 15 patients, the trial would be terminated for that subgroup but would continue to enroll patients in 
the other subgroups. 
Twenty patients were enrolled and received study drug: 8 had progressive neuroblastoma, 8 had 
stable neuroblastoma, and 4 had diagnoses other than neuroblastoma. 
Eligible patients had measurable or evaluable neuroblastoma or other pediatric solid tumor. 
Additional criteria were: 
• Age ≤40 years (added in protocol amendment 1) 
• Relapse from or resistance to standard anticancer therapy and/or lack of standard therapy known to 
be beneficial in the underlying disease. 
• Serum creatinine ≤2.5 times the upper limit of normal. 
• Serum bilirubin ≤2.5 times the upper limit of normal. 
• Patients with absolute QT interval >460 msec in the presence of adequate serum potassium and 
magnesium values were excluded. 
• Patients with pre-existing neurotoxicity/neuropathy of grade 2 or greater were excluded in the 
original protocol. As of protocol amendment 2, patients with brain tumors who had stable neurological 
deficits were eligible to enroll. 
•  Treatments 
Arsenic trioxide 0.25 mg/kg/day was administered as an intravenous infusion. 
Patients were treated for up to 6 cycles. Patients were removed from study treatment if they had 
evidence of disease progression, were medically unstable, or experienced grade 4 drug-related toxicity. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
Criteria for assessment of disease response were based on the patient’s diagnosis at study entry. For 
patients with neuroblastoma, disease response was assessed using the International Neuroblastoma 
Response Criteria, with assessment dependent on whether the patient entered the study with 
progressive or stable disease. For patients with PD at study entry, response to treatment was defined 
as SD or better after 3 cycles of treatment. For patients with refractory but non-progressing disease 
(defined as SD or better), response to treatment was defined as PR or better after 3 cycles of 
treatment or more than 12 weeks from the start of the study, or as SD or better after 6 cycles or more 
than 24 weeks from the start of the protocol. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 5/13 
 
 
 
 
For patients with other solid tumors (non-neuroblastoma), disease response was assessed using 
RECIST criteria to evaluate a set of target lesions identified prior to treatment with study drug. 
Disease response for all patients was assessed after every 3 cycles of treatment and then, if the 
disease had responded, every 2-3 months through one year after completion of arsenic trioxide 
treatment with bone marrow aspirations and biopsy specimens from bilateral iliac crests; CT 
or MRI of primary site and of potential sites of metastases (e.g., lungs); scintigraphic studies such as 
PET scan, bone scan, gallium scan, or MIBG scan; or biochemical tumor markers (e.g., serum alpha-
fetoprotein, urine catecholamines). 
Toxicities were assessed from the time of first study treatment until the follow-up visit 4 weeks after 
administration of the last dose of study drug according to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC), 
Version 2. Complete blood count and clinical chemistry were assessed before each cycle and at end of 
weeks 1 and 2. Serum sodium, potassium, chloride, bicarbonate, magnesium, calcium were assessed 
each day of treatment with ATO. ECG was performed in each treatment week and at the end of each 4-
week cycle. 
•  Statistical Methods 
The study employed the SWOG two-stage design, in 3 sub-groups of patients: 1) neuroblastoma 
patients with progressive disease at study entry, 2) neuroblastoma patients with stable (refractory, 
non-progressive) disease at study entry, and 3) patients with diagnoses other than neuroblastoma. 
Probability of response and associated 95% confidence interval outlined in the protocol were not 
calculated because the 3 subgroups did not enroll to the planned level. Demographic data and safety 
variables will be summarized by descriptive statistics. Response is listed by patient. 
  Results 
•  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Twenty patients were enrolled and treated in this study; 8 had progressive neuroblastoma, 8 had 
stable neuroblastoma, and 4 had diagnoses other than neuroblastoma. Mean age was 12 years and 
ranged from 4 to 36 years. Most patients (80%) were Caucasian and had neuroblastoma (80%). Mean 
time from diagnosis to the first dose of study was 3 years. Three patients each received 6 cycles and 
completed the study. Sixteen patients were discontinued due to disease progression and one patient 
withdrew consent after cycle 1. 
•  Efficacy results 
Of the 19 patients evaluated for efficacy in this pediatric tumor population with historically poor 
prognosis, 1 patient with neuroblastoma had a mixed response at 2 consecutive assessments on days 
85 and 157and 2 patients had no response at the end of the study. However, the two patients that had 
no response at the end of the study had not shown disease progression for 5.5 and 6 months 
respectively. The remaining 16 patients had progressive disease. 
•  Safety results 
The most common adverse events were pyrexia (60%) and nausea, vomiting, cough and cancer pain 
(each 35%). The most common adverse events attributed by the investigators to study drug were 
electrocardiogram QT prolonged (15%) and headache, nausea, and vomiting NOS (each 10%). Serious 
adverse events were reported frequently (75%). The most commonly reported serious adverse events 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 6/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were pyrexia (50%), neutropenia (15%) followed by herpes zoster, pneumonia, cancer pain, 
leukopenia, diarrhea, and dehydration (10%). 
QT prolongation was closely monitored as a possible drug-related adverse event in this study. 
Four (20%) patients had prolonged QT intervals, 3 of grade 1 severity and 1 of grade 3. None of these 
events led to patient discontinuation. 
Hematologic laboratory evaluations revealed frequent grade 3 abnormalities in haemoglobin and grade 
3 and 4 abnormalities in platelets and neutrophils. Clinically significant grade shifts were observed in 
all 3 analytes that did not fully recover by the end of treatment. The data suggest that ATO may be 
associated with myelosuppression although the extent of marrow suppression present at baseline in 
many of these poor prognosis, refractory patients indicates that the underlying advanced malignancy 
and its progression was likely a more significant factor. 
Chemistry laboratory evaluations revealed mild to moderate elevations in glucose during the study, not 
unexpected with ATO. They were transient and easily managed. Electrolyte abnormalities were 
observed but were generally transient and likely related to gastrointestinal toxicity. Mild to moderate 
shifts in ALT and AST occurred during the study that did not fully resolve by the end of treatment 
suggesting that ATO may be associated with an increase in transaminases. No abnormalities in renal 
function were observed. 
No meaningful changes in vital signs were seen over time. Marked abnormalities were generally related 
to comorbid diseases, their treatments, or concurrent adverse events. 
There were four deaths within 30 days of the last study treatment, all related to progression of 
disease. 
In conclusion, ATO administered for 5 days followed by 2 days of no treatment, another 5 days of 
treatment and then 14 days of no treatment up to a maximum of 6 cycles was generally well tolerated 
in patients with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma and other poor prognosis pediatric solid tumors. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
CTI-1059 study enrolled children and adult patients with neuroblastomas and other paediatric solid 
tumours. These indications are not in the scope of the marketing authorisation, and the dose used 
(0.25 mg/kg/day) is superior to the recommended dose in APL (0.15 mg/kg/day).  
Off the 20 patients included, only 16 are paediatric patients. Presented data from these 16, cover all 
ranges of age from 4 to 18 years. 
One patient with neuroblastoma had a mixed response seen at 2 consecutive assessments (days 85 
and 157). He completed the maximum allowed 6 cycles of treatment on this study. 
Two patients with neuroblastoma had no response (NR) and completed the maximum allowed 6 cycles 
of treatment. 
All of the remaining 16 patients that were evaluated for efficacy had progressive disease. 
With reference to efficacy, no data are available to each paediatric group. Only 3 patients received the 
whole treatment (6 cycles) 
The only relevant information is that the median number of arsenic trioxide doses administered was 15  
(3 x 5 days) and the mean cumulative dose was 127.77 mg/m2 (128.31 mg). 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 7/13 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding the safety profile of ATO in the setting of neuroblastoma, based on the data provided, the 
nature of the most common adverse events in children and adolescents seems equivalent to that of 
adults. However, the higher dosage used in this trial (0.25 mg /kg) precludes any comparison with 
regards to the study drug related adverse events that seem higher in this paediatric population. 
Four patients (20%) died, within 30 days of last dose, of disease progression. 
Discontinuation of treatment is attributed to adverse events secondary to disease progression. 
Since only 3 patients completed the treatment, the extent of treatment related adverse event is not 
assessable. 
Furthermore, in this paediatric population subject to growth, and given the high dosage used, the 
estimation of cumulative toxicity is of great concern. 
Eventually, an extension of indication and/or an update of the posology, as requested in the clinical 
overview, should be evaluated as part of a corresponding future type II variation and not as part of the 
art. 45 procedure. 
STUDY T99 080: PHASE I TRIAL AND PHARMACOKINETIC OF ARSENIC TRIOXIDE IN CHILDREN AND 
ADOLESCENTS WITH REFRACTORY OR RELAPSED ACUTE LEUKEMIA INCLUDING ACUTE 
PROMYEOLOCYTIC LEUKEMIA OR LYMPHOMA, A COLLABORATIVE STUDY OF THE PEDIATRIC 
ONCOLOGY BRANCH, NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE AND THE CHILDREN’S ONCOLOGY GROUP 
Cephalon’s summary 
  Description 
This study was a dose-escalation Phase I study in children and adolescent with relapsed or refractory 
leukemia.  
  Methods 
Patients with relapsed APL were administered with the approved TRISENOX dose of 0.15 mg/kg, and 3 
dose levels (0.15, 0.1 and 0.25 mg/kg) were planned for other leukemia or lymphoma patients. 
TRISENOX was administered intravenously over 2 hours each day for 5 consecutive days for 4 weeks 
(20 doses), with a 2-week break between treatment and a maximum of 3 cycles. The objectives of the 
study were to evaluate the safety of TRISENOX at 0.15mg/kg in children with APL and to determine 
the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of TRISENOX in non-APL 
patients, and to study the pharmacokinetics of TRISENOX in children.  
Twenty-four paediatric patients with recurrent or refractory leukaemia were enrolled including 14 
patients with refractory APL and 10 with leukaemia, non-APL, or lymphoma. Patients were from 2 to 21 
years old with a median age of 13 years.  
Within the 14 patients with APL, 1 patient was found not to be eligible for the study after inclusion. 
This patient did not experience toxicity attributed to TRISENOX, but other data from this patient has 
been excluded from the report. Within the 10 patients with other leukaemia or lymphoma enrolled in 
the dose escalation portion of the study, 4 had progressive disease prior to completing cycle 1 and 
were inevaluable; 4 patients were administered with TRISENOX 0.15 mg/kg per day, and 6 with 0.2 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 8/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mg/kg per day. Of the 19 evaluable patients for toxicity, 2 received less than 1 cycle, 8 received 1 
cycle, 3 received 2 cycles, and 6 received the maximum 3 cycles as planned in the protocol. All 
patients who received more than 1 cycle had APL.  
PK parameters were derived on 10 patients who received 0.15 mg/kg per dose, 2 patients treated at 
0.2 mg/kg per dose and 2 patients dosed according to ideal body weight (0.07-0.1 mg/kg of actual 
body weight per dose).  
  Results 
Morphologic complete response (CR) was achieved in 85% (11 out of 13) of patients with APL. This 
response rate is similar to the response rate in adults.  
No response was observed in non-APL patients.  
Dose limiting toxicity was reported in 2 out of 15 patients at 0.15 mg/kg per day, and in 2 out of 4 
patients at 0.2 mg/kg per day. This included QTc prolongation, pneumonitis, neuropathic pain, and 
pancreatitis. The QTc prolongation (grade 1 in 2 patients, one patient treated at 0.15 mg/kg and one 
at 0.2 mg/kg) normalized upon cessation of TRISENOX treatment and correction of electrolyte 
abnormalities, if present. Frequent non-dose-limiting toxicities included elevated serum hepatic 
transaminases (37%), nausea/vomiting (26%), abdominal pain (10%), constipation (16%), 
hypomagnesemia (26%), hypocalcemia (26%), hyperglycemia (26%), dermatitis (26%), infection 
(16%), and headache (16%). The acute toxicity profile of TRISENOX in children is similar to that 
observed in adults.  
Rapporteur’s comments: 
The results of this study are provided in this application in the form of a publication in Blood, dated 15 
January 2008. 
24 children with recurrent or refractory leukaemia were enrolled between July 2000 and January 2005. 
Within the 14 patients with APL, 13 were evaluable for efficacy. It should be noted that the median age 
for this subpopulation was 17 years (4-21 years). 
In children with relapsed or refractory APL, morphological complete response was achieved in 11 out of 
13 patients (85%). CR has been achieved with 20-30 doses of arsenic. Cytogenetic response occurred 
in 9 out of 11 patients but 70 doses were required to achieve negative RT-PCR. 
Even though the efficacy results on children with APL seem encouraging, the form of this submission 
does not allow a fully valuable assessment.  
Since the objective of this study was to evaluate the tolerability of arsenic trioxide in children with APL 
and to determine DLT and MTD in children with non APL leukaemia, this results could be of interest. 
Moreover, pharmacokinetic data from ten children who received ATO 0.15mg/kg/dose, two children 
treated at 0.2 mg/kg/dose, and two patients dosed according to ideal body weight (0.07-0.1 mg/kg of 
actual body weight/dose) should be provided. Interestingly, two patients who were obese (BMI>30) 
and who were dosed based on ideal body weight suffered most of the significant toxicities observed on 
subsequent treatment cycles. Given the existing association between diagnosis of acute promyelocytic 
leukemia in patients and increased body mass index with acute myeloid leukemia (Estey et al., 
Leukemia 1997), these important data should be further investigated. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 9/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The toxicity profile in children seems similar to previously published data in adult patients. However 
the data alert on the need for careful monitoring of QTc interval and correction of hypomagnesaemia, 
hypokaliaemia or hypocalcaemia.  
Long term toxicity especially in infants and adolescents is a concern. As noticed by the MAH, this trial 
was not powered to address this issue.  
Indeed, the population targeted fall into the frame of Trisenox current indication (recurrent or 
refractory APL). Hence, the MAH intends to update section 4.2 of Trisenox SPC with the safety and 
efficacy information available from T99-080 study in paediatric patients. The Rapporteur considers 
that, to form a robust basis of such an update, the MAH should provide the results of this trial as a 
clinical study report including an update of responding patients, to allow the request for a type II 
variation. 
CALGB C9710, CONSOLIDATION WITH ARSENIC TRIOXIDE (AS2O3) SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVES 
EVENT-FREE SURVIVAL (EFS) AND OVERALL SURVIVAL (OS) AMONG PATIENTS WITH NEWLY 
DIAGNOSED ACUTE PROMYELOCYTIC LEUKEMIA (APL). 
  Description 
The results of this study are provided in this application in the form of a press release and an abstract 
given below. 
Consolidation with arsenic trioxide (As2O3) significantly improves event-free survival (EFS) 
and overall survival (OS) among patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic 
leukemia (APL): North American Intergroup Protocol C9710. 
Bayard L. Powell, MD1, Barry Moser, MD1, Wendy Stock, MD1, Robert E. Gallagher, MD2, Cheryl L. 
Willman, MD3, Steven Coutre, MD3, James H. Feusner, MD4, Frederick R. Appelbaum, MD3, Martin S. 
Tallman, MD2 and Richard A. Larson, MD1 
1 Cancer and Leukemia Group B, (CALGB), Chicago, IL; 2 Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG), 
Philadelphia, PA; 3 Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG), San Antonio, TX; 4 Children’s Oncology Group 
(COG), Arcadia, CA; National Cancer Institute of Canada – Clinical Trials Group (NCIC-CTG), Kingston, 
ON, Canada 
Background: This randomized phase III study was designed to evaluate the benefit and toxicity of 
two 25-day courses of As2O3 as first post-remission therapy for newly diagnosed patients with APL. 
Methods: Adult patients were randomized to receive 2 courses of As2O3 (0.15 mg/kg/d for 5d each 
wk for 5 wk) as a first consolidation if they achieved remission (CR or PR) after induction with oral 
tretinoin (ATRA; 45 mg/m2/d), daunorubicin (50 mg/m2 IV x 4d), and cytarabine (200 mg/m2 CIV x 
7d); by study design, all but 2 children were assigned to the non-As2O3 arm. Subsequent 
consolidation on both arms included 2 courses of ATRA (45 mg/m2 x 7d) + daunorubicin (50 mg/m2 x 
3d; 2d for age < 15 yr). CR patients were then randomized to 1 yr of ATRA maintenance (7d repeated 
every other wk) with or without 6-mercaptopurine (daily) + methotrexate (weekly). Results: 518 
adults (15-79 yr) and 64 children (<15 yr; 11%) with untreated APL were enrolled by 5 cooperative 
groups (CALGB, ECOG, SWOG, COG, NCICCTG). Eligibility required demonstration of PML-RARA in one 
of 3 central labs; 37 adults and 7 children were ineligible and not included in the analyses. Patient 
characteristics and toxicity data have been reported (ASH 2006; Blood 108:171a). 
Median follow up is now 29 mos. Overall CR rate for adults was 89% and did not differ by treatment 
arm; CR rate for children was 89%. There were 41 deaths (8%) within 60 days. EFS, the primary 
endpoint, was 77% at 3 yrs on the As2O3 arm (median, not reached) compared to 59% at 3 yrs on 
the standard arm (median, 63 mos; p=0.0013). 
Overall, 84% of adults were alive at last follow up. OS was 86% at 3 yrs on the As2O3 arm compared 
to 77% at 3 yrs on the standard arm (medians not reached; p=0.029); EFS and OS for pediatric 
patients did not differ statistically from the adult arm without As2O3. Among 452 CR pts, there have 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 10/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
been only 71 post-CR events (16%) so disease-free survival has not yet been analyzed by treatment 
arm.  
Conclusion: The addition of 2 courses of As2O3 consolidation following remission induction 
significantly improves EFS and OS in adults with APL. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
Between June 1999 and March 2005, 582 patients were enrolled on this study of which 64 children 
with untreated APL. This study was randomised but all but 2 children were assigned to the non AS2O3 
arm, meaning that this study was not designed to give statistical evidence of efficacy or safety in 
children.   
No information regarding paediatric population has been provided in the last PSUR 7 covering the 
period from March 2006 to September 2008. The MAH is asked to provide the final results of CALGB 
C9710 study as soon as possible. 
In any case, the form of this submission does not allow any assessment. The need for the submission 
of a type II variation to broaden the indication to children will be assessed at this time. 
Publications 
25 publications from 1994 to 2006 were retrieved by Cephalon. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
Article 45 refers to the obligation for the MAH to submit any studies for an authorised product, 
including those with both adult and paediatric patients. In such, the literature review is not an 
extensive and updated one. 
See examples below. 
Management of acute promyelocytic leukemia: recommendations from an expert panel on behalf of the 
European LeukemiaNet. 
Sanz MA, Grimwade D, Tallman MS, Lowenberg B, Fenaux P, Estey EH, Naoe T, Lengfelder E, Büchner 
T, Döhner H, Burnett AK, Lo-Coco F. Blood. 2009 Feb 26;113(9):1875-91. Epub 2008 Sep 23 
Effective treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia with all-trans-retinoic acid, arsenic trioxide, and 
gemtuzumab ozogamicin. 
Ravandi F, Estey E, Jones D, Faderl S, O'Brien S, Fiorentino J, Pierce S, Blamble D, Estrov Z, Wierda 
W, Ferrajoli A, Verstovsek S, Garcia-Manero G, Cortes J, Kantarjian H. 
J Clin Oncol. 2009 Feb 1;27(4):504-10. Epub 2008 Dec 15. 
A comprehensive review of acute promyelocytic leukemia in children. 
Mantadakis E, Samonis G, Kalmanti M. 
Acta Haematol. 2008;119(2):73-82. Epub 2008 Feb 20.  
Mobilization of PML-RARA negative blood stem cells and salvage with autologous peripheral blood stem 
cell transplantation in children with relapsed acute promyelocytic leukemia. 
Termuhlen AM, Klopfenstein K, Olshefski R, Rosselet R, Yeager ND, Soni S, Gross TG. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 11/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2008 Oct;51(4):521-4. 
Retrospective analysis of 65 Chinese children with acute promyelocytic leukemia: a single center 
experience. 
Zhang L, Zhao H, Zhu X, Chen Y, Zou Y, Chen X. 
Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2008 Aug;51(2):210-5 
Arsenic trioxide, thalidomide and retinoid acid combination therapy in higher risk myelodysplastic 
syndrome patients. 
Zheng WL, Zhang GS, Xu YX, Shen JK, Dai CW, Pei MF. 
Leuk Res. 2008 Feb;32(2):251-4. Epub 2007 Oct 24 
1.6.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Formal aspects 
New post-approval paediatric information consists of 2 main trials, one in solid tumours and one in 
leukaemia, as reported below:  
- The CTI-sponsored CTI-1059 phase II trial that enrolled 16 paediatric patients from 4 to 17 years 
with neuroblastomas and other paediatric solid tumours. The clinical study report (CSR) was finalized 
in October 2005, and then upgraded by an Addendum 1 version signed in December 2006 which 
cancelled and replaced the initial CSR. The MAH provided the Rapporteur with this addendum which 
forms the basis for the assessment of paediatric data. 
- A US study (T-99-080), sponsored by the American National Cancer Institute (NCI), enrolled 24 
paediatric patients amongst them 14 with refractory APL and 10 with leukemia, non-APL, or 
lymphoma. No formal CSR is available. The results displayed in a publication do not provide the 
material for an assessment. 
In addition, preliminary data from CALGB C9710 study are submitted in the form of a press release 
and an abstract. But final data are not yet available.  
Substantial aspects 
Although neuroblastomas and other paediatric solid tumours are not in the scope of the marketing 
authorisation indication for trisenox, the results of CTI-1059 study give information on paediatric 
population.  
The Rapporteur acknowledges that because of the rarity of the disease in the paediatric population, no 
data are available to each paediatric group as per the International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) 
E11 Clinical investigation of medicinal products in the paediatric population (20 July 2000).  
If the MAH intends to update SPC in view of results of T 99-080 trial, he should provide the clinical 
study report as a material for type II variation.  
Regarding CALGB C9710 study, the MAH states that no conclusion is expected on paediatric population 
from this study since only 2 children have been treated with arsenic trioxyde. Even if this study does 
not sound informative for the paediatric patients, it is in the list of clinical specific obligations. The MAH 
is requested to submit it to the EMEA as soon as available.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 12/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion and recommendation 
As a general comment and given the rarity of the described conditions, duplicate reports of cases 
cannot be excluded and this should be addressed when formal type II variation request will be 
submitted. 
In form and substance this application is insufficient. 
For the time being, and considering the fragmented collection of paediatric data, it is impossible to 
decide whether a formal type II variation with indication modification should be acceptable or no 
modification is needed. This must be based on assessment of reliable, updated and exhaustive data. 
The full efficacy data and consequently the overall benefit risk ratio of the proposed new broader 
indication will be assessed as part of a future type II variation (extension of Indication).  
However, Trisenox was authorised in 2002 under exceptional circumstances and is an orphan medicinal 
product.. 
Importantly, no information regarding paediatric population has been provided in the last PSUR 7 
covering the period from March 2006 to September 2008. The MAH is asked to provide the final results 
of CALGB C9710 study as soon as possible. Furthermore, pharmacokinetic data from STUDY T99 080 
should be provided. 
Comments were received from member states: MS1 and MS2 endorse the Rapporteur’s assessment 
report.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/241333/2013  
Page 13/13 
 
 
 
 
 
