13 December 2019 
EMA/189409/2019 
EMA issues alert on the risk of dosing errors with the 
cancer medicine Trisenox  
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has recommended the approval of a new presentation of the 
injectable cancer medicine Trisenox (arsenic trioxide) that contains 2 mg/ml of the active substance in 
each vial. The new presentation will replace the existing one, which contains 1 mg/ml in each ampoule. 
In addition, the new vial contains a total volume of 6 ml (and a total content of 12 mg arsenic trioxide) 
whereas the existing ampoule contains 10 ml (and a total content of 10 mg). 
The  two  strengths  will  temporarily  coexist  until  the  one  containing  1 mg/ml  has  all  been  used.  The 
Agency is concerned that the coexistence of the two strengths may result in healthcare professionals 
inadvertently  giving  their  patients  too  much  (overdose)  or  not  enough  (underdose)  of  the  active 
substance. Whereas underdosing may result in an inadequate effect overdose can result in serious and 
potentially fatal complications such as bleeding, severe infections and cardiac arrest. 
EMA is therefore alerting healthcare professionals using Trisenox of the risk of dosing errors and is 
reminding them to check the strength of the available presentation and follow the instructions for use 
carefully.  
A letter with this information will be sent to healthcare professionals. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
•  A new presentation of Trisenox (vial containing 2 mg/ml arsenic trioxide) will be introduced to 
replace the existing presentation (ampoule containing 1 mg/ml arsenic trioxide). In addition, the 
new presentation contains a total volume of 6 ml (and a total content of 12 mg) whereas the 
existing presentation contains 10 ml (and a total content of 10 mg). 
•  Both formulations will coexist until stocks of the one containing 1 mg/ml have all been used.  
• 
• 
To avoid any mix-ups while both presentations coexist, healthcare professionals must carefully 
check the concentration of the available presentation when calculating the volume of Trisenox to 
withdraw for dilution and infusion to ensure that the patient receives the correct dose of arsenic 
trioxide.  
To help differentiate between the two presentations, the packages have distinctive features shown 
below.   
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Current presentation 
New presentation  
Strength 
1 mg/ml 
2 mg/ml 
Presentation 
Ampoule of 10 ml 
Vial of 6 ml 
Total content  
10 mg 
12 mg 
Label of the immediate 
container 
Front of the carton  
Dilution 
Administration 
Both should be diluted with 100–250 ml of either glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) 
solution for injection or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection 
After dilution Trisenox is given by an infusion (drip) into a vein over 1 to 2 
hours. 
More about the medicine 
Trisenox is a medicine used to treat adults with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL), a rare form of 
leukaemia (cancer of the white blood cells) caused by a genetic translocation (when there is a swap of 
genes between two chromosomes). It is available as a concentrate that is made up into a solution for 
infusion (drip) into a vein, and contains the active ingredient arsenic trioxide.  
Trisenox has been authorised in the European Union since November 2016.  
More information on Trisenox can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trisenox  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
