PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for TRIUMEQ 
This is a summary of the RMP for TRIUMEQ. The RMP details important risks of TRIUMEQ, 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about the 
TRIUMEQ risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
The TRIUMEQ summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how TRIUMEQ should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for TRIUMEQ should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
TRIUMEQ RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
TRIUMEQ is authorized for the treatment of HIV infected adults, adolescents and children 
(see SmPC for the full indication). It contains DTG, ABC and 3TC as the active substance and 
it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of TRIUMEQ can be found in the 
TRIUMEQ EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/triumeq 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further
characterise the risks
Important risks of TRIUMEQ, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Triumeq's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 



Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
78 

The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of TRIUMEQ these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PBRER assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of TRIUMEQ is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of TRIUMEQ are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken.  Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of TRIUMEQ. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
TRIUMEQ is a medicine that does not contain a new active substance. The identified and 
potential risks for TRIUMEQ have been taken from the approved TIVICAY (dolutegravir 
(DTG)) and Ziagen (ABC) or Kivexa (ABC/3TC) RMPs. No new risks have been identified 
for TRIUMEQ.  
Summary of safety concerns 
The safety profile of DTG taken in combination with ABC and 3TC is consistent with the safety 
profiles of the single agents, and no additional risks or safety issues due to combination therapy 
have been identified. 
Important identified risks 
ABC 
 Hypersensitivity reactions
Important potential risks 
DTG 
 Neural tube defects
Missing information 
 Use in pregnancy/ breastfeeding
79 
II.B Summary of important risks
TRIUMEQ is a medicine that does not contain a new active substance. The identified and 
potential risks for TRIUMEQ have been taken from the approved TIVICAY (dolutegravir) and 
ZIAGEN (ABC) or KIVEXA (ABC/3TC) RMPs. No new risks have been identified for 
TRIUMEQ. 
The safety information in the Product Information for TRIUMEQ is aligned to the reference 
medicinal products (TIVICAY and ZIAGEN or KIVEXA).  
Additional pharmacovigilance and additional risk minimisation activities (where applicable) 
for TRIUMEQ are provided in the table below: 
Important identified risk (ABC): Hypersensitivity 
Additional  pharmacovigilance activities  None 
Additional risk minimisation activities 
Each pack of TRIUMEQ medication contains an Alert Card 
for patients and information on the risk of HSR with ABC in 
the Patient Information Leaflet. 
Important potential risk: Neural tube defects 
Additional Risk minimisation measures 
Direct  health  care  professional  communication 
completed in 2018 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
Study 208613 -DOLOMITE EPPICC Study 
80 
Study 208759 -DOLOMITE NEAT ID Network 
Study  
Missing Information: Use in pregnancy 
Additional  pharmacovigilance activities  Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry  
Study 208613 -DOLOMITE EPPICC Study 
Study 208759 -DOLOMITE NEAT ID Network Study 
81 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of TRIUMEQ. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
Study/Activity 
(including 
study number) 
Objectives 
Safety  concerns/efficacy 
issue addressed 
Status 
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) final 
study results 
Antiretroviral 
Pregnancy 
Registry 
Study 208613 
DOLOMITE 
EPPICC Study 
Monitors prenatal 
exposures to 
antiretroviral drugs 
to detect a potential 
increase in the risk 
of birth defects 
through a 
prospective 
exposure-
registration  
Assess “real-world” 
maternal and foetal 
outcomes following 
DTG use during 
pregnancy and to 
describe patterns of 
DTG utilization 
Use in pregnancy 
Use in pregnancy, NTDs 
DTG exposure relative to 
conception will be captured 
in this study, thus enabling 
assessment of pre-
conception exposures 
along with first, second 
and third trimester 
exposures. 
Ongoing  A registry interim 
report is prepared 
semi-annually 
summarising the 
aggregate data. 
Data from the APR 
will be presented 
in the PBRER. 
Ongoing  Final Report June 
2023 
Objectives 
Study/Activity 
(including 
study number) 
Safety  concerns/efficacy 
issue addressed 
Status 
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) final 
study results 
Study 208759 
DOLOMITE 
NEAT ID 
Network Study 
To assess the safety 
and effectiveness of 
DTG in pregnancy in 
the NEAT-ID 
network of 
approximately 40 
sites across Europe. 
Use in pregnancy, NTDs 
DTG exposure relative to 
conception will be captured 
in this study, thus enabling 
assessment of pre-
conception exposures 
along with first, second 
and third trimester 
exposures. 
Ongoing  Final Report 
October 2023 
