EMA/951472/2022 
EMEA/H/C/002754 
Triumeq (dolutegravir / abacavir / lamivudine) 
An overview of Triumeq and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Triumeq and what is it used for? 
Triumeq is a medicine for treating infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that 
causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). It is used in adults, adolescents and children who 
weigh at least 14 kg.  
Triumeq contains three active substances: dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine. 
How is Triumeq used? 
Triumeq can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be prescribed by a doctor who 
is experienced in managing HIV infections.  
Before starting treatment with Triumeq, all patients should have a test to find out if they have a gene 
called ‘HLA-B (type 5701)’. Patients with this gene are at an increased risk of an allergic reaction to 
abacavir, so they should not take Triumeq.  
Triumeq is available as: 
• 
• 
tablets containing 50 mg dolutegravir, 600 mg abacavir and 300 mg lamivudine for adults, 
adolescents and children weighing at least 25 kg. The recommended dose is one tablet a day. 
dispersible tablets containing 5 mg dolutegravir, 60 mg abacavir and 30 mg lamivudine for children 
weighing at least 14 kg and less than 25 kg. The recommended dose depends on the weight of the 
patient. 
Triumeq can be taken with or without food. 
For more information about using Triumeq, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Triumeq work? 
One of the active substances in Triumeq, dolutegravir, is an integrase inhibitor. It blocks an enzyme 
called integrase that is needed by the virus to make new copies of itself in the body. The other two 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
active substances, abacavir and lamivudine, are nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). 
They both work by blocking the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced by HIV that 
allows it to make more copies of itself in the cells it has infected and so spread in the body.  
Triumeq does not cure HIV infection but it reduces the amount of HIV in the body and keeps it at a low 
level. This holds off damage to the immune system and the development of infections and diseases 
associated with AIDS. 
All three active substances in Triumeq are already available in the EU as single-component medicines: 
abacavir has been authorised as Ziagen since 1999, lamivudine as Epivir since 1996, and dolutegravir 
as Tivicay since 2014. The combination of abacavir and lamivudine has been authorised as Kivexa 
since 2004. 
What benefits of Triumeq have been shown in studies? 
The combination of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine (as found in Triumeq) was evaluated in one 
main study involving 833 previously untreated patients. Data from this study had already been used in 
the authorisation of Tivicay.  
Patients were either given the Triumeq combination or a different three-drug combination (Atripla) that 
did not include an integrase inhibitor. After 48 weeks, 88% of the patients given Triumeq no longer 
had detectable levels of HIV (below 50 copies per ml of plasma [the liquid part of the blood]), 
compared with 81% of the patients who were given Atripla. Data from this study collected until week 
96 showed that this effect was maintained over time. 
The company also looked at the way Triumeq was absorbed in the body in comparison with two 
separate tablets (dolutegravir and abacavir/lamivudine) containing the three medicines that make up 
Triumeq. Results from this study showed that Triumeq was absorbed in the body in the same way as 
the separate medicines. 
Studies were also carried out to show that recommended doses of tablets and dispersible tablets in 
children produced levels of active substances in the body that were similar to what is seen in adults. 
What are the risks associated with Triumeq? 
The most common side effects with Triumeq (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are insomnia 
(difficulty sleeping), headache, nausea (feeling sick), diarrhoea and fatigue (tiredness). For the full list 
of side effects of Triumeq, see the package leaflet. 
Triumeq must not be used together with certain medicines such as fampridine (a multiple sclerosis 
medicine, also called dalfampridine), as this may increase the level of such medicines in the body, 
resulting in serious side effects. Serious hypersensitivity reactions (allergic reactions) requiring the 
patient to stop treatment permanently may occur with Triumeq, especially in people with the HLA-B 
(type 5701) gene. For the full list of restrictions with Triumeq, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Triumeq authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Triumeq’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. The Agency concluded that the medicine had demonstrated its 
effectiveness in previously untreated patients, and that similar benefits are expected in previously 
treated patients.  
EMA/951472/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
The Agency also noted that giving the combination of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine as a single 
tablet is an additional treatment option for patients with HIV infection and without the HLA-B (type 
5701) gene. The combined medicine reduces the number of tablets patients have to take, helping 
them to adhere to their treatment. In addition, the Agency considered the fact that Triumeq can be 
taken with or without food as an additional advantage compared with other similar medicines which 
have to be taken strictly either with food or on an empty stomach. Finally, Triumeq’s safety profile was 
expected to be similar to the safety profile of the single components and comparable to that of other 
HIV treatments. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Triumeq? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Triumeq have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Triumeq are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Triumeq are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Triumeq 
Triumeq received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 1 September 2014.  
Further information on Triumeq can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/triumeq 
This summary was last updated in 01-2023.  
EMA/951472/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
