ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Triumeq 50 mg/600 mg/300 mg film-coated tablets  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each film-coated tablet contains 50 mg dolutegravir (as sodium), 600 mg of abacavir (as sulfate) and 
300 mg of lamivudine. 
For the full list of excipients see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Film-coated tablet (tablet)  
Purple, biconvex, film-coated oval tablets, approximately 22 x 11 mm, debossed with “572 Trı” on 
one side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Triumeq is indicated for the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infected adults, 
adolescents and children weighing at least 25 kg (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
Before initiating treatment with abacavir-containing products, screening for carriage of the HLA-
B*5701 allele should be performed in any HIV-infected patient, irrespective of racial origin (see 
section 4.4). Abacavir should not be used in patients known to carry the HLA-B*5701 allele. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Therapy should be prescribed by a physician experienced in the management of HIV infection.  
Posology  
Adults,adolescents and children (weighing at least 25kg)  
The recommended dose of Triumeq in adults,adolescents and children is one tablet once daily. 
Triumeq film-coated tablets should not be administered to adults, adolescents or children who weigh 
less than 25 kg because it is a fixed-dose tablet that cannot be dose reduced. Triumeq dispersible 
tablets should be administered to children who weigh at least 14 kg to less than 25 kg.  
Separate preparations of dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine are available in cases where 
discontinuation or dose adjustment of one of the active substances is indicated. In these cases the 
physician should refer to the individual product information for these medicinal products. 
A separate dose of dolutegravir (film-coated tablets or dispersible tablets) is applicable where a dose 
adjustment is indicated due to drug-drug interactions (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, 
phenytoin, phenobarbital, St. John’s wort, etravirine (without boosted protease inhibitors), efavirenz, 
nevirapine, or tipranavir/ritonavir (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dispersible tablets 
Triumeq is available as dispersible tablets for patients who weigh at least 14 kg to less than 25 kg. The 
bioavailability of dolutegravir from film-coated tablets and dispersible tablets is not comparable; 
therefore, they must not be used as direct replacements (see section 5.2). 
Missed doses 
If the patient misses a dose of Triumeq, the patient should take it as soon as possible, providing the 
next dose is not due within 4 hours. If the next dose is due within 4 hours, the patient should not take 
the missed dose and simply resume the usual dosing schedule. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
There are limited data available on the use of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine in patients aged 
65 years and over. There is no evidence that elderly patients require a different dose than younger 
adult patients (see section 5.2). Special care is advised in this age group due to age associated changes 
such as the decrease in renal function and alteration of haematological parameters. 
Renal impairment  
Triumeq is not recommended for use in patients with a creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min (see section 
5.2). No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. However, the 
lamivudine exposure is significantly increased in patients with a creatinine clearance < 50 mL/min 
(see section 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Abacavir is primarily metabolised by the liver. No clinical data are available in patients with moderate 
or severe hepatic impairment, therefore the use of Triumeq is not recommended unless judged 
necessary. In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5-6) close monitoring is 
required, including monitoring of abacavir plasma levels if feasible (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of Triumeq in children  weighing less than 14 kg have not yet been 
established.  
Currently available data are described in section 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2, but no recommendation on a 
posology can be made.  
Method of administration 
Oral use 
Triumeq can be taken with or without food (see section 5.2).  
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
Co-administration with medicinal products with narrow therapeutic windows, that are substrates of 
organic cation transporter (OCT) 2, including but not limited to fampridine (also known as 
dalfampridine; see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Hypersensitivity reactions (see section 4.8)  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both abacavir and dolutegravir are associated with a risk for hypersensitivity reactions (HSR) (see 
section 4.8), and share some common features such as fever and/or rash with other symptoms 
indicating multi-organ involvement. Clinically it is not possible to determine whether a HSR with 
Triumeq would be caused by abacavir or dolutegravir. Hypersensitivity reactions have been 
observed more commonly with abacavir, some of which have been life-threatening, and in rare 
cases fatal, when not managed appropriately. The risk for abacavir HSR to occur is high for patients 
who test positive for the HLA-B*5701 allele. However, abacavir HSRs have been reported at a low 
frequency in patients who do not carry this allele.  
Therefore, the following should always be adhered to: 
- HLA-B*5701 status must always be documented prior to initiating therapy. 
- Triumeq should never be initiated in patients with a positive HLA-B*5701 status, nor in patients 
with a negative HLA-B*5701 status who had a suspected abacavir HSR on a previous abacavir-
containing regimen.  
- Triumeq must be stopped without delay, even in the absence of the HLA-B*5701 allele, if an 
HSR is suspected. Delay in stopping treatment with Triumeq after the onset of hypersensitivity may 
result in an immediate and life-threatening reaction. Clinical status including liver 
aminotransferases and bilirubin should be monitored. 
- After stopping treatment with Triumeq for reasons of a suspected HSR, Triumeq or any other 
medicinal product containing abacavir or dolutegravir must never be re-initiated.  
- Restarting abacavir containing products following a suspected abacavir HSR can result in a 
prompt return of symptoms within hours. This recurrence is usually more severe than on initial 
presentation, and may include life-threatening hypotension and death.  
- In order to avoid restarting abacavir and dolutegravir, patients who have experienced a suspected 
HSR should be instructed to dispose of their remaining Triumeq tablets.  
Clinical description of HSRs 
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in <1% of patients treated with dolutegravir in 
clinical studies, and were characterized by rash, constitutional findings, and sometimes, organ 
dysfunction, including severe liver reactions. 
Abacavir HSR has been well characterised through clinical studies and during post marketing 
follow-up. Symptoms usually appeared within the first six weeks (median time to onset 11 days) of 
initiation of treatment with abacavir, although these reactions may occur at any time during 
therapy. 
Almost all HSR to abacavir will include fever and/or rash. Other signs and symptoms that have 
been observed as part of abacavir HSR are described in detail in section 4.8 (Description of selected 
adverse reactions), including respiratory and gastrointestinal symptoms. Importantly, such 
symptoms may lead to misdiagnosis of HSR as respiratory disease (pneumonia, bronchitis, 
pharyngitis), or gastroenteritis. The symptoms related to this HSR worsen with continued therapy 
and can be life- threatening. These symptoms usually resolve upon discontinuation of abacavir.  
Rarely, patients who have stopped abacavir for reasons other than symptoms of HSR have also 
experienced life-threatening reactions within hours of re- initiating abacavir therapy (see Section 4.8 
Description of selected adverse reactions).  Restarting abacavir in such patients must be done in a 
setting where medical assistance is readily available. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Weight and metabolic parameters 
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to disease control and lifestyle. For lipids and weight, 
there is in some cases evidence for a treatment effect. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose 
reference is made to established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as 
clinically appropriate. 
Liver disease 
The safety and efficacy of Triumeq has not been established in patients with significant underlying 
liver disorders. Triumeq is not recommended in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
Patients with pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis have an increased 
frequency of liver function abnormalities during combination antiretroviral therapy, and should be 
monitored according to standard practice. If there is evidence of worsening liver disease in such 
patients, interruption or discontinuation of treatment must be considered.  
Patients with chronic hepatitis B or C 
Patients with chronic hepatitis B or C and treated with combination antiretroviral therapy are at an 
increased risk of severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of concomitant antiviral 
therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer also to the relevant product information for these medicinal 
products.  
Triumeq includes lamivudine, which is active against hepatitis B. Abacavir and dolutegravir lack such 
activity. Lamivudine monotherapy is generally not considered an adequate treatment for hepatitis B, 
since the risk for hepatitis B resistance development is high. If Triumeq is used in patients co-infected 
with hepatitis B an additional antiviral is, therefore, generally needed. Reference should be made to 
treatment guidelines.  
If Triumeq is discontinued in patients co-infected with hepatitis B virus, periodic monitoring of both 
liver function tests and markers of HBV replication is recommended, as withdrawal of lamivudine 
may result in an acute exacerbation of hepatitis. 
Immune Reactivation Syndrome 
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of institution of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first few weeks or months of initiation of CART. 
Relevant examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections, 
and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (often referred to as PCP). Any inflammatory symptoms should 
be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease 
and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reactivation; 
however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur many months after 
initiation of treatment. 
Liver chemistry elevations consistent with immune reconstitution syndrome were observed in some 
hepatitis B and/or C co-infected patients at the start of dolutegravir therapy.  Monitoring of liver 
chemistries is recommended in patients with hepatitis B and/or C co-infection. (See ‘Patients with 
chronic hepatitis B or C’ earlier in this section and also see section 4.8). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mitochondrial dysfunction following exposure in utero 
Nucleoside and nucleotide analogues may impact mitochondrial function to a variable degree, which is 
most pronounced with stavudine, didanosine and zidovudine. There have been reports of 
mitochondrial dysfunction in HIV-negative infants exposed in utero and/or post-natally to nucleoside 
analogues, these have predominantly concerned treatment with regimens containing zidovudine. The 
main adverse reactions reported are haematological disorders (anaemia, neutropenia), and metabolic 
disorders (hyperlactatemia, hyperlipasemia). These reactions have often been transitory. Some late-
onset neurological disorders have been reported rarely (hypertonia, convulsion, abnormal behaviour). 
Whether such neurological disorders are transient or permanent is currently unknown. These findings 
should be considered for any child exposed in utero to nucleoside and nucleotide analogues, who 
presents with severe clinical findings of unknown aetiology, particularly neurologic findings.  These 
findings do not affect current national recommendations to use antiretroviral therapy in pregnant 
women to prevent vertical transmission of HIV. 
Cardiovascular events 
Although the available data from clinical and observational studies with abacavir show inconsistent 
results, several studies suggest an increased risk of cardiovascular events (notably myocardial 
infarction) in patients treated with abacavir. Therefore, when prescribing Triumeq, action should be 
taken to minimise all modifiable risk factors (e.g. smoking, hypertension, and hyperlipidaemia). 
In addition, alternative treatment options to the abacavir containing regimen should be considered when 
treating patients with a high cardiovascular risk. 
Osteonecrosis 
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, 
bisphosphonates, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of 
osteonecrosis have been reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV-disease and/or long-term 
exposure to CART. Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience joint aches 
and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement. 
Opportunistic infections 
Patients should be advised that Triumeq or any other antiretroviral therapy does not cure HIV 
infection and that they may still develop opportunistic infections and other complications of HIV 
infection. Therefore, patients should remain under close clinical observation by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of these associated HIV diseases. 
Administration in subjects with moderate renal impairment 
Patients with a creatinine clearance between 30 and 49 mL/min receiving Triumeq may experience a 
1.6-to 3.3-fold higher lamivudine exposure (AUC) than patients with a creatinine clearance ≥50 
mL/min. There are no safety data from randomised, controlled trials comparing Triumeq to the 
individual components in patients with a creatinine clearance between 30 and 49 mL/min who 
received dose-adjusted lamivudine. In the original lamivudine registrational trials in combination with 
zidovudine, higher lamivudine exposures were associated with higher rates of haematologic toxicities 
(neutropenia and anaemia), although discontinuations due to neutropenia or anaemia each occurred in 
<1% of subjects. Other lamivudine-related adverse events (such as gastro-intestinal and hepatic 
disorders) may occur. 
Patients with a sustained creatinine clearance between 30 and 49 mL/min who receive Triumeq should 
be monitored for lamivudine-related adverse events, notably hematologic toxicities. If new or 
worsening neutropenia or anaemia develop, a dose adjustment of lamivudine, per lamivudine 
prescribing information, is indicated, which cannot be achieved with Triumeq. Triumeq should be 
discontinued and the individual components should be used to construct the treatment regimen. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug resistance  
The use of Triumeq is not recommended for patients with integrase inhibitor resistance. This is 
because the recommended dose of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily for adult patients with resistance 
to integrase inhibitors and there are insufficient data to recommend a dose of dolutegravir in integrase 
inhibitor resistant adolescents, children and infants. 
Drug interactions  
The recommended dose of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily when co-administered with rifampicin, 
carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, St. John’s wort, etravirine (without boosted 
protease inhibitors), efavirenz, nevirapine, or tipranavir/ritonavir (see section 4.5). 
Triumeq should not be co-administered with polyvalent cation-containing antacids. Triumeq is 
recommended to be administered 2 hours before or 6 hours after these medicinal products (see section 
4.5). 
When taken with food, Triumeq and supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or 
magnesium can be taken at the same time. If Triumeq is administered under fasting conditions, 
supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or magnesium are recommended to be taken 2 
hours after or 6 hours before Triumeq (see section 4.5). 
Dolutegravir increased metformin concentrations. A dose adjustment of metformin should be 
considered when starting and stopping coadministration of dolutegravir with metformin, to maintain 
glycaemic control (see section 4.5). Metformin is eliminated renally and therefore it is of importance 
to monitor renal function when co-treated with dolutegravir. This combination may increase the risk 
for lactic acidosis in patients with moderate renal impairment (stage 3a creatinine clearance [CrCl] 45– 
59 mL/min) and a cautious approach is recommended. Reduction of the metformin dose should be 
highly considered.   
The combination of lamivudine with cladribine is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Triumeq should not be taken with any other medicinal products containing dolutegravir, abacavir, 
lamivudine or emtricitabine, except where a dose adjustment of dolutegravir is indicated due to drug-
drug interactions (see section 4.5). 
Excipients 
Triumeq contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say is essentially ‘sodium 
free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Triumeq contains dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine, therefore any interactions identified for these 
individually are relevant to Triumeq. No clinically significant drug interactions are expected between 
dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine. 
Effect of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine 
Dolutegravir is eliminated mainly through metabolism by uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl 
transferase (UGT) 1A1. Dolutegravir is also a substrate of UGT1A3, UGT1A9, CYP3A4, P-
glycoprotein (P-gp), and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). Co-administration of Triumeq and 
other medicinal products that inhibit UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A9, CYP3A4, and/or P-gp may 
therefore increase dolutegravir plasma concentration. Medicinal products that induce those enzymes or 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
transporters may decrease dolutegravir plasma concentration and reduce the therapeutic effect of 
dolutegravir (see Table 1). 
The absorption of dolutegravir is reduced by certain anti-acid medicinal products (see Table 1).  
Abacavir is metabolised by UGT (UGT2B7) and alcohol dehydrogenase; co-administration of 
inducers (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine and phenytoin) or inhibitors (e.g. valproic acid) of UGT 
enzymes or with compounds eliminated through alcohol dehydrogenase could alter abacavir exposure.  
Lamivudine is cleared renally. Active renal secretion of lamivudine in the urine is mediated through 
the OCT2 and multidrug and toxin extrusion transporters (MATE1 and MATE2-K). Trimethoprim (an 
inhibitor of these drug transporters) has been shown to increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, 
however the resulting increase was not clinically significant (see Table 1).  Dolutegravir is an OCT2 
and MATE1 inhibitor; however, lamivudine concentrations were similar with or without co-
administration of dolutegravir based on a cross study analysis, indicating that dolutegravir has no 
effect on lamivudine exposure in vivo. Lamivudine is also substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter 
OCT1. As hepatic elimination plays a minor role in the clearance of lamivudine, drug interactions due 
to inhibition of OCT1 are unlikely to be of clinical significance. 
Although abacavir and lamivudine are substrates of BCRP and P-gp in vitro, given the high absolute 
bioavailability of abacavir and lamivudine, (see section 5.2), inhibitors of these efflux transporters are 
unlikely to result in a clinically relevant impact on abacavir or lamivudine concentrations.  
Effect of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products  
In vivo, dolutegravir did not have an effect on midazolam, a CYP3A4 probe. Based on in vivo and/or 
in vitro data, dolutegravir is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of medicinal products that are 
substrates of any major enzyme or transporter such as CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and P-gp (for more 
information see section 5.2). 
In vitro, dolutegravir inhibited the renal transporters OCT2 and MATE1. In vivo, a 10-14% decrease 
of creatinine clearance (secretory fraction is dependent on OCT2 and MATE1 transport) was observed 
in patients. In vivo, dolutegravir may increase plasma concentrations of medicinal products in which 
excretion is dependent upon OCT2 and/or MATE1 (e.g. fampridine [also known as dalfampridine], 
metformin) (see Table 1).  
In vitro, dolutegravir inhibited the renal uptake organic anion transporters (OAT)1 and OAT3. Based 
on the lack of effect on the in vivo pharmacokinetics of the OAT substrate tenofovir, in vivo inhibition 
of OAT1 is unlikely. Inhibition of OAT3 has not been studied in vivo. Dolutegravir may increase 
plasma concentrations of medicinal products in which excretion is dependent upon OAT3.   
In vitro, abacavir demonstrated the potential to inhibit CYP1A1 and limited potential to inhibit 
metabolism mediated by CYP3A4. Abacavir was an inhibitor of MATE1; the clinical consequences 
are not known.  
In vitro, lamivudine was an inhibitor of OCT1 and OCT2; the clinical consequences are not known.  
Established and theoretical interactions with selected antiretrovirals and non-antiretroviral medicinal 
products are listed in Table 1. 
Interaction table  
Interactions between dolutegravir, abacavir, lamivudine and co-administered medical products are 
listed in Table 1 (increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔”, area under the 
concentration versus time curve as “AUC”, maximum observed concentration as “Cmax”, concentration 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
at end of dosing interval as “Cτ”). The table should not be considered exhaustive but is representative 
of the classes studied.  
Table 1: 
 Drug interactions 
Interaction geometric 
mean change (%)  
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Antiretroviral medicinal products 
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
Etravirine without boosted 
protease inhibitors / 
Dolutegravir 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 71% 
   Cmax ↓ 52% 
   Cτ ↓ 88% 
Etravirine ↔ 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Lopinavir+ritonavir+etravirine/ 
Dolutegravir 
Darunavir+ritonavir+etravirine/ 
Dolutegravir 
Efavirenz/Dolutegravir 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 11% 
   Cmax ↑ 7% 
   Cτ ↑ 28% 
Lopinavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
Etravirine ↔ 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 25% 
   Cmax ↓ 12% 
   Cτ ↓ 36% 
Darunavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
Etravirine ↔ 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 57% 
   Cmax ↓ 39% 
   Cτ ↓ 75% 
Nevirapine/Dolutegravir 
Efavirenz ↔ (historical 
controls) 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
(Not studied, a similar 
reduction in exposure as 
observed with efavirenz is 
9 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Etravirine without boosted protease 
inhibitors decreased plasma dolutegravir 
concentration. The recommended dose 
of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily for 
patients taking etravirine without 
boosted protease inhibitors. As Triumeq 
is a fixed dose tablet, an additional 
50 mg tablet of dolutegravir should be 
administered, approximately 12 hours 
after Triumeq for the duration of the 
etravirine without boosted protease 
inhibitor co-administration (a separate 
preparation of dolutegravir is available 
for this dose adjustment, see section 
4.2). 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
is 50 mg twice daily when co-
administered with efavirenz. As Triumeq 
is a fixed dose tablet, an additional 
50 mg tablet of dolutegravir should be 
administered, approximately 12 hours 
after Triumeq for the duration of the 
efavirenz co-administration (a separate 
preparation of dolutegravir is available 
for this dose adjustment, see section 
4.2).   
Co-administration with nevirapine may 
decrease dolutegravir plasma 
concentration due to enzyme induction 
and has not been studied. Effect of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
expected, due to 
induction) 
Rilpivirine 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 12% 
   Cmax ↑ 13% 
   Cτ ↑ 22% 
Rilpivirine ↔ 
Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
Tenofovir  
   AUC ↑ 1% 
   Cmax ↓ 3% 
   Cτ  ↓ 8% 
Tenofovir ↔ 
Emtricitabine, didanosine, 
stavudine, zidovudine. 
Interaction not studied 
Protease inhibitors 
Atazanavir/Dolutegravir 
Atazanavir+ ritonavir/ 
Dolutegravir 
Tipranavir+ritonavir/ 
Dolutegravir 
Dolutegravir ↑ 
   AUC ↑ 91% 
   Cmax ↑ 50% 
   Cτ ↑ 180% 
Atazanavir ↔ (historical 
controls) 
(inhibition of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↑ 
   AUC ↑ 62% 
   Cmax ↑ 34% 
   Cτ ↑ 121% 
Atazanavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 59% 
   Cmax ↓ 47% 
   Cτ ↓ 76% 
10 
nevirapine on dolutegravir exposure is 
likely similar to or less than that of 
efavirenz. The recommended dose of 
dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily when 
co-administered with nevirapine. As 
Triumeq is a fixed dose tablet, an 
additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir 
should be administered, approximately 
12 hours after Triumeq for the duration 
of the nevirapine co-administration (a 
separate preparation of dolutegravir is 
available for this dose adjustment, see 
section 4.2). 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
No dose adjustment is necessary when 
Triumeq is combined with nucleoside 
reverse transcript inhibitors. 
Triumeq is not recommended for use in 
combination with emtricitabine 
containing products, since both 
lamivudine (in Triumeq) and 
emtricitabine are cytidine analogues (i.e. 
risk for intracellular interactions, (see 
section 4.4)) 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
is 50 mg twice daily when co-
administered with tipranavir/ritonavir. 
As Triumeq is a fixed dose tablet, an 
additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir 
should be administered, approximately 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 hours after Triumeq for the duration 
of the tipranavir/ritonavir co-
administration (a separate preparation of 
dolutegravir is available for this dose 
adjustment, see section 4.2). 
Fosamprenavir/ritonavir decreases 
dolutegravir concentrations, but based 
on limited data, did not result in 
decreased efficacy in Phase III studies. 
No dose adjustment is necessary.  
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
Daclatasvir did not change dolutegravir 
plasma concentration to a clinically 
relevant extent.  Dolutegravir did not 
change daclatasvir plasma concentration. 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
No Triumeq dose adjustment necessary, 
unless patient has renal impairment (See 
Section 4.2). 
Fosamprenavir+ritonavir/ 
Dolutegravir 
Lopinavir+ritonavir/  
Dolutegravir 
Lopinavir+ritonavir/ 
Abacavir 
Darunavir+ritonavir/ 
Dolutegravir 
Other antiviral agents 
Daclatasvir/Dolutegravir 
Anti-infective products 
Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 
(Co-trimoxazole)/Abacavir 
Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 
(Co-trimoxazole)/Lamivudine 
(160mg/800mg once daily for 5 
days/300mg single dose) 
Tipranavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir↓ 
   AUC ↓ 35% 
   Cmax ↓ 24% 
   Cτ ↓ 49% 
Fosamprenavir↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC  ↓ 4% 
   Cmax ↔ 0% 
   C24 ↓ 6% 
Lopinavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
Abacavir                          
AUC ↓ 32% 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 22%  
   Cmax ↓ 11% 
   Cτ ↓ 38% 
Darunavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 33%  
   Cmax ↑ 29% 
   Cτ ↑ 45% 
Daclatasvir ↔ 
Interaction not studied 
Lamivudine:  
   AUC ↑43% 
   Cmax ↑7% 
Trimethoprim:  
   AUC ↔ 
Sulfamethoxazole:  
   AUC ↔ 
(organic cation transporter 
inhibition) 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antimycobacterials 
Rifampicin/Dolutegravir 
Rifabutin 
Anticonvulsants 
Carbamazepine/Dolutegravir 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 54% 
   Cmax ↓ 43% 
   Cτ ↓ 72% 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↓ 5% 
   Cmax ↑ 16% 
   Cτ ↓ 30% 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 49% 
   Cmax ↓ 33% 
   Cτ ↓ 73% 
Phenobarbital/Dolutegravir 
Phenytoin/Dolutegravir 
Oxcarbazepine/Dolutegravir 
Dolutegravir↓ 
(Not studied, decrease 
expected due to induction 
of UGT1A1 and CYP3A 
enzymes, a similar 
reduction in exposure as 
observed with 
carbamazepine is 
expected) 
The dose of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice 
daily when co-administered with 
rifampicin. As Triumeq is a fixed dose 
tablet, an additional 50 mg tablet of 
dolutegravir should be administered, 
approximately 12 hours after Triumeq 
for the duration of the rifampicin co-
administration (a separate preparation of 
dolutegravir is available for this dose 
adjustment, see section 4.2). 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
is 50 mg twice daily when co-
administered with carbamazepine. As 
Triumeq is a fixed dose tablet, an 
additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir 
should be administered, approximately 
12 hours after Triumeq for the duration 
of the carbamazepine co-administration 
(a separate preparation of dolutegravir is 
available for this dose adjustment, see 
section 4.2). 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
is 50 mg twice daily when co-
administered with these metabolic 
inducers. As Triumeq is a fixed dose 
tablet, an additional 50 mg tablet of 
dolutegravir should be administered, 
approximately 12 hours after Triumeq 
for the duration of the co-administration 
with these metabolic inducers (a separate 
preparation of dolutegravir is available 
for this dose adjustment, see section 
4.2). 
Antihistamines (histamine H2 receptor antagonists) 
Ranitidine 
Interaction not studied. 
No dose adjustment necessary. 
Cimetidine 
Cytotoxics 
Cladribine/Lamivudine 
Clinically significant 
interaction unlikely. 
Interaction not studied. 
Clinically significant 
interaction unlikely. 
Interaction not studied.  
In vitro lamivudine 
inhibits the intracellular 
12 
No dose adjustment necessary. 
Concomitant use of Triumeq with 
cladribine is not recommended (see 
section 4.4). 
 
 
 
 
 
phosphorylation of 
cladribine leading to a 
potential risk of cladribine 
loss of efficacy in case of 
combination in the 
clinical setting. Some 
clinical findings also 
support a possible 
interaction between 
lamivudine and cladribine 
Abacavir:   
   AUC ↔ 
   Cmax ↓35% 
Methadone:  
   CL/F ↑22% 
Interaction not studied 
Possible interaction given 
common pathway of 
elimination via alcohol 
dehydrogenase (abacavir-
component). 
Interaction not studied 
(Inhibition of alcohol 
dehydrogenase) 
Opioids 
Methadone/Abacavir 
(40 to 90mg once daily for 14 
days/600mg single dose, then 
600mg twice daily for 14 days) 
Retinoids 
Retinoid compounds  
(e.g. Isotretinoin) 
Miscellaneous 
Alcohol 
Ethanol/Dolutegravir 
Ethanol/Lamivudine 
Ethanol/Abacavir 
(0.7 g/kg single dose/600mg 
single dose) 
Abacavir:  
   AUC ↑ 41% 
Ethanol:  
   AUC ↔ 
Sorbitol 
Sorbitol solution (3.2 g, 10.2 g, 
13.4 g)/Lamivudine 
Single dose lamivudine 
oral solution 300 mg  
Lamivudine: 
AUC ↓ 14%; 32%; 36%  
Cmax ↓ 28%; 52%, 55%. 
Potassium channel blockers 
Fampridine (also known as 
dalfampridine)/Dolutegravir 
Fampridine ↑ 
Antacids and supplements 
13 
Methadone dose adjustment likely not 
needed in majority of patients; 
occasionally methadone re-titration may 
be required. 
Insufficient data to recommend dose 
adjustment. 
No dose adjustment necessary. 
When possible, avoid chronic 
coadministration of Triumeq with 
medicinal products containing sorbitol 
or other osmotic acting poly-alcohols or 
monosaccharide alcohols (eg: xylitol, 
mannitol, lactitol, maltitol). Consider 
more frequent monitoring of HIV-1 viral 
load when chronic coadministration 
cannot be avoided. 
Co-administration of dolutegravir has 
the potential to cause seizures due to 
increased fampridine plasma 
concentration via inhibition of OCT2 
transporter; co-administration has not 
been studied. Fampridine co-
administration with Triumeq is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Magnesium/ 
aluminium-containing 
antacids/Dolutegravir 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
AUC ↓ 74%  
Cmax ↓ 72% 
(Complex binding to 
polyvalent ions) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 39%  
   Cmax ↓ 37% 
   C24 ↓ 39% 
(Complex binding to 
polyvalent ions) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 54%  
   Cmax ↓ 57% 
   C24 ↓ 56% 
(Complex binding to 
polyvalent ions) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 33%  
   Cmax ↓ 35% 
   C24 ↓ 32% 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 11% 
   Cmax ↑ 6% 
   Cτ ↑ 17% 
Metformin ↑ 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
When co-administered 
with dolutegravir 50mg 
QD: 
Metformin 
   AUC ↑ 79%  
   Cmax ↑ 66% 
When co-administered 
with dolutegravir 50mg 
BID:  
   Metformin 
   AUC ↑ 145 %  
   Cmax ↑ 111% 
Calcium 
supplements/Dolutegravir 
Iron supplements/Dolutegravir 
Multivitamins (containing 
calcium, iron and magnesium) 
/Dolutegravir 
Corticosteroids 
Prednisone 
Antidiabetics 
Metformin/Dolutegravir 
Herbal products 
St. John’s wort/Dolutegravir 
Magnesium/ aluminium-containing 
antacids should be taken well separated 
in time from the administration of 
Triumeq (minimum 2 hours after or 6 
hours before the intake of Triumeq). 
- When taken with food, Triumeq and 
supplements or multivitamins containing 
calcium, iron or magnesium can be taken 
at the same time.  
- If Triumeq is taken in a fasted state, 
such supplements should be taken a 
minimum 2 hours after or 6 hours before 
the intake of Triumeq. 
The stated reductions in dolutegravir 
exposure were observed with the intake 
of dolutegravir and these supplements 
during fasted conditions. In fed state, the 
changes in exposure following intake 
together with calcium or iron 
supplements were modified by the food 
effect, resulting in an exposure similar to 
that obtained with dolutegravir 
administered in the fasted state. 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
A dose adjustment of metformin should 
be considered when starting and 
stopping coadministration of 
dolutegravir with metformin, to maintain 
glycaemic control. In patients with 
moderate renal impairment a dose 
adjustment of metformin should be 
considered when coadministered with 
dolutegravir, because of the increased 
risk for lactic acidosis in patients with 
moderate renal impairment due to 
increased metformin concentration 
(section 4.4). 
Dolutegravir↓ 
(Not studied, decrease 
expected due to induction 
of UGT1A1 and CYP3A 
enzymes, a similar 
reduction in exposure as 
observed with 
carbamazepine is 
expected) 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
is 50 mg twice daily when co-
administered with St. John’s wort. As 
Triumeq is a fixed dose tablet, an 
additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir 
should be administered, approximately 
12 hours after Triumeq for the duration 
of the St John’s wort co-administration 
(a separate preparation of dolutegravir is 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
Oral contraceptives 
Ethinyl estradiol (EE) and 
Norgestromin 
(NGMN)/Dolutegravir 
Antihypertensive 
Riociguat/Abacavir 
available for this dose adjustment, see 
section 4.2). 
Dolutegravir had no Pharmacodynamic 
effect on Luteinizing Hormone (LH), 
Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) and 
progesterone. No dose adjustment of 
oral contraceptives is necessary when 
co-administered with Triumeq. 
Riociguat dose may need to be reduced, 
consult the riociguat prescribing 
information for dosing 
recommendations. 
Effect of dolutegravir: 
EE ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 3%  
   Cmax ↓ 1% 
Effect of dolutegravir: 
NGMN ↔ 
   AUC ↓ 2%  
   Cmax ↓ 11% 
Riociguat ↑ 
In vitro, abacavir inhibits 
CYP1A1. Concomitant 
administration of a single 
dose of riociguat (0.5 mg) 
to HIV patients receiving 
Triumeq led to an 
approximately three-fold 
higher riociguat AUC(0-∞) 
when compared to 
historical riociguat 
AUC(0-∞) reported in 
healthy subjects. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should be counselled about the potential risk of neural tube defects 
with dolutegravir (a component of Triumeq, see below), including consideration of effective 
contraceptive measures. 
If a woman plans pregnancy, the benefits and the risks of continuing treatment with Triumeq should 
be discussed with the patient. 
Pregnancy  
Human experience from a birth outcome surveillance study in Botswana shows a small increase of 
neural tube defects; 7 cases in 3,591 deliveries (0.19%; 95% CI 0.09%, 0.40%) to mothers taking 
dolutegravir-containing regimens at the time of conception compared to 21 cases in 19,361 deliveries 
(0.11%: 95% CI 0.07%, 0.17%) to women exposed to non-dolutegravir regimens at the time of 
conception. 
The incidence of neural tube defects in the general population ranges from 0.5-1 case per 1,000 live 
births (0.05-0.1%). Most neural tube defects occur within the first 4 weeks of embryonic development 
after conception (approximately 6 weeks after the last menstrual period). If a pregnancy is confirmed 
in the first trimester while on Triumeq, the benefits and risks of continuing Triumeq versus switching 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to another antiretroviral regimen should be discussed with the patient taking the gestational age and 
the critical time period of neural tube defect development into account. 
Data analysed from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry do not indicate an increased risk of major 
birth defects in over 600 women exposed to dolutegravir during pregnancy but are currently 
insufficient to address the risk of neural tube defects. 
In animal reproductive toxicology studies with dolutegravir, no adverse development outcomes, 
including neural tube defects, were identified (see section 5.3).  
More than 1000 outcomes from exposure to dolutegravir during second and third trimester pregnancy 
indicate no evidence of increased risk of foetal/neonatal toxicity. Triumeq may be used during the 
second and third trimester of pregnancy when the expected benefit justifies the potential risk to the 
foetus. 
Dolutegravir crosses the placenta in humans. In pregnant women living with HIV, the median foetal 
umbilical cord concentration of dolutegravir was approximately 1.3-fold greater compared with the 
maternal peripheral plasma concentration. 
There is insufficient information on the effects of dolutegravir on neonates. 
Concerning lamivudine, a large amount of data (more than 5200 outcomes from first trimester) 
indicates no malformative toxicity. A moderate amount of data (more than 1200 outcomes from first 
trimester) indicates no malformative toxicity for abacavir.  
Abacavir and lamivudine may inhibit cellular DNA replication and abacavir has been shown to be 
carcinogenic in animal models (see section 5.3). The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. 
Mitochondrial dysfunction  
Nucleoside and nucleotide analogues have been demonstrated in vitro and in vivo to cause a variable 
degree of mitochondrial damage. There have been reports of mitochondrial dysfunction in HIV-
negative infants exposed in utero and/or post-natally to nucleoside analogues (see section 4.4). 
Breast-feeding  
Dolutegravir is excreted in human milk in small amounts (a median dolutegravir breast milk to 
maternal plasma ratio of 0.033 has been shown). There is insufficient information on the effects of 
dolutegravir in neonates/infants.  
Abacavir and its metabolites are excreted into the milk of lactating rats. Abacavir is also excreted into 
human milk. 
Based on more than 200 mother/child pairs treated for HIV, serum concentrations of lamivudine in 
breastfed infants of mothers treated for HIV are very low (< 4% of maternal serum concentrations) and 
progressively decrease to undetectable levels when breastfed infants reach 24 weeks of age. There are 
no data available on the safety of abacavir and lamivudine when administered to babies less than three 
months old. 
It is recommended that women living with HIV do not breast-feed their infants in order to avoid 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
transmission of HIV. 
Fertility  
There are no data on the effects of dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine on human male or female 
fertility. Animal studies indicate no effects of dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine on male or female 
fertility (see section 5.3).   
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Triumeq has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be 
informed that dizziness has been reported during treatment with dolutegravir. The clinical status of the 
patient and the adverse reaction profile of Triumeq should be borne in mind when considering the 
patient’s ability to drive or operate machinery. 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile  
The most frequently reported adverse reactions  related to dolutegravir and abacavir/lamivudine were 
nausea (12%), insomnia (7%), dizziness (6%) and headache (6%). 
Many of the adverse reactions listed in the table below occur commonly (nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
fever, lethargy, rash) in patients with abacavir hypersensitivity. Therefore, patients with any of these 
symptoms should be carefully evaluated for the presence of this hypersensitivity (see section 4.4). 
Very rarely cases of erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis 
have been reported where abacavir hypersensitivity could not be ruled out. In such cases medicinal 
products containing abacavir should be permanently discontinued. 
The most severe adverse reaction  related to the treatment with dolutegravir and abacavir/lamivudine, 
seen in individual patients, was a hypersensitivity reaction that included rash and severe liver effects 
(see section 4.4 and Description of selected adverse reactions in this section).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions with the components of Triumeq from clinical study and post-marketing 
experience are listed in Table 2 by body system, organ class and absolute frequency. Frequencies are 
defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), 
rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions associated with the combination of dolutegravir + 
Table 2: 
abacavir/lamivudine in an analysis of pooled data from: Phase IIb to Phase IIIb clinical studies or post-
marketing experience; and adverse reactions to treatment with dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine 
from clinical studies and post-marketing experience when used with other antiretrovirals 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Blood and lymphatic systems disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Very rare: 
Neutropenia1, anaemia1, thrombocytopenia1 
pure red cell aplasia1 
Immune system disorders: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
hypersensitivity (see section 4.4) 
immune reconstitution syndrome (see section 4.4) 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Very rare: 
anorexia1 
hypertriglyceridaemia, hyperglycaemia 
lactic acidosis1 
Psychiatric disorders:  
Very common: 
insomnia 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
abnormal dreams, depression, anxiety1, nightmare, sleep 
disorder 
suicidal ideation or suicide attempt (particularly in patients 
with a pre-existing history of depression or psychiatric 
illness), panic attack 
completed suicide (particularly in patients with a pre-existing 
history of depression or psychiatric illness) 
Nervous system disorders:  
Very common: 
headache 
Common: 
Very rare: 
dizziness, somnolence, lethargy1 
peripheral neuropathy1, paraesthesia1 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: 
Common: 
cough1, nasal symptoms1 
Gastrointestinal disorders:  
Very common: 
nausea, diarrhoea 
Common: 
vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain, abdominal pain upper, 
abdominal distension, abdominal discomfort, gastro-
oesophageal reflux disease, dyspepsia 
Rare: 
pancreatitis1 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Common: 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and/or aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST) elevations 
Uncommon: 
hepatitis 
Rare: 
acute hepatic failure1, increased bilirubin2 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders:  
Common: 
Very rare: 
rash, pruritus, alopecia1 
erythema multiform1, Stevens-Johnson syndrome1, toxic 
epidermal necrolysis1 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: 
Common: 
Rare: 
Arthralgia1, muscle disorders1(including myalgia1) 
rhabdomyolysis1 
General disorders and administration site conditions:  
Very common: 
fatigue 
Common: 
asthenia, fever1, malaise1 
18 
Investigations: 
Common: 
Rare: 
CPK elevations, weight increased 
amylase elevations1 
1This adverse reaction was identified from clinical studies or post-marketing experience 
for dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine when used with other antiretrovirals or post-
marketing experience with Triumeq. 
2In combination with increased transaminases. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Both abacavir and dolutegravir are associated with a risk for hypersensitivity reactions (HSR), which 
were observed more commonly with abacavir. Hypersensitivity reaction observed for each of these 
medicinal products (described below) share some common features such as fever and/or rash with 
other symptoms indicating multi-organ involvement. Time to onset was typically 10-14 days for both 
abacavir and dolutegravir-associated reactions, although reactions to abacavir may occur at any time 
during therapy. Treatment with Triumeq must be stopped without delay if HSR cannot be ruled out on 
clinical grounds, and therapy with Triumeq or other abacavir or dolutegravir containing products must 
never be re-initiated. Please refer to section 4.4 for further details on patient management in the event 
of a suspected HSR to Triumeq. 
Dolutegravir hypersensitivity 
Symptoms have included rash, constitutional findings, and sometimes, organ dysfunction, including 
severe liver reactions. 
Abacavir hypersensitivity 
The signs and symptoms of this HSR are listed below. These have been identified either from clinical 
studies or post marketing surveillance. Those reported in at least 10% of patients with a 
hypersensitivity reaction are in bold text. 
Almost all patients developing hypersensitivity reactions will have fever and/or rash (usually 
maculopapular or urticarial) as part of the syndrome, however reactions have occurred without rash or 
fever. Other key symptoms include gastrointestinal, respiratory or constitutional symptoms such as 
lethargy and malaise.  
Skin 
Rash (usually maculopapular or urticarial) 
Gastrointestinal tract 
Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, mouth ulceration 
Respiratory tract 
Miscellaneous 
Dyspnoea, cough, sore throat, adult respiratory distress syndrome, 
respiratory failure 
Fever, lethargy, malaise, oedema, lymphadenopathy, hypotension, 
conjunctivitis, anaphylaxis 
Neurological/Psychiatry 
Headache, paraesthesia 
Haematological 
Lymphopenia 
Liver/pancreas 
Elevated liver function tests, hepatitis, hepatic failure 
Musculoskeletal 
Myalgia, rarely myolysis, arthralgia, elevated creatine phosphokinase 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Urology 
Elevated creatinine, renal failure 
Symptoms related to this HSR worsen with continued therapy and can be life-threatening and in rare 
instance, have been fatal. 
Restarting abacavir following an abacavir HSR results in a prompt return of symptoms within hours. 
This recurrence of the HSR is usually more severe than on initial presentation, and may include life-
threatening hypotension and death. Similar reactions have also occurred infrequently after restarting 
abacavir in patients who had only one of the key symptoms of hypersensitivity (see above) prior to 
stopping abacavir; and on very rare occasions have also been seen in patients who have restarted 
therapy with no preceding symptoms of a HSR (i.e., patients previously considered to be abacavir 
tolerant). 
Metabolic parameters 
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see section 
4.4) 
Osteonecrosis 
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to CART. The frequency of this is unknown (see 
section 4.4). 
Immune reactivation syndrome  
In  HIV-infected  patients  with  severe  immune  deficiency  at  the  time  of  initiation  of  CART,  an 
inflammatory  reaction  to  asymptomatic  or  residual  opportunistic  infections  may  arise.  Autoimmune 
disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported; however, the 
reported  time  to  onset  is  more  variable  and  these  events  can  occur  many  months  after  initiation  of 
treatment (see section 4.4). 
Changes in laboratory chemistries 
Increases in serum creatinine occurred within the first week of treatment with dolutegravir and 
remained stable through 96 weeks. In the SINGLE study a mean change from baseline of 12.6 µmol/L 
was observed after 96 weeks of treatment. These changes are not considered to be clinically relevant 
since they do not reflect a change in glomerular filtration rate. 
Asymptomatic creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevations mainly in association with exercise have also 
been reported with dolutegravir therapy. 
Co-infection with Hepatitis B or C 
In dolutegravir Phase III studies patients with hepatitis B and/or C co-infection were permitted to enrol 
provided that baseline liver chemistry tests did not exceed 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). 
Overall, the safety profile in patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or C was similar to that observed 
in patients without hepatitis B or C co-infection, although the rates of AST and ALT abnormalities 
were higher in the subgroup with hepatitis B and/or C co-infection for all treatment groups. 
Paediatric population 
There are no clinical study data on the effects of Triumeq in the paediatric population. Individual 
components have been investigated in infants, children and adolescents. 
Based on available data with  dolutegravir used in combination with other antiretroviral agents to treat 
infants, children and adolescents , there were no additional safety issues identified beyond those 
observed in the adult population. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The individual preparations of abacavir and lamivudine have been investigated separately, and as a 
dual nucleoside backbone, in combination antiretroviral therapy to treat ART- naive and ART- 
experienced HIV- infected paediatric patients (data available on the use of abacavir and lamivudine in 
infants less than three months are limited). No additional types of adverse reactions have been 
observed beyond those characterised for the adult population. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
No specific symptoms or signs have been identified following acute overdose with dolutegravir, 
abacavir or lamivudine, apart from those listed as adverse reactions. 
Further management should be as clinically indicated or as recommended by the national poisons 
centre, where available.  There is no specific treatment for an overdose of Triumeq. If overdose 
occurs, the patient should be treated supportively with appropriate monitoring, as necessary. Since 
lamivudine is dialysable, continuous haemodialysis could be used in the treatment of overdose, 
although this has not been studied. It is not known whether abacavir can be removed by peritoneal 
dialysis or haemodialysis. As dolutegravir is highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that it will 
be significantly removed by dialysis. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, antivirals for treatment of HIV infections, 
combinations. ATC code: J05AR13 
Mechanism of action 
Dolutegravir inhibits HIV integrase by binding to the integrase active site and blocking the strand 
transfer step of retroviral Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) integration which is essential for the HIV 
replication cycle. 
Abacavir and lamivudine are potent selective inhibitors of HIV-1 and HIV-2. Both abacavir and 
lamivudine are metabolised sequentially by intracellular kinases to the respective 5'-triphosphates (TP) 
which are the active moieties with extended intracellular half-lives supporting once daily dosing (see 
section 5.2). Lamivudine-TP (an analogue for cytidine) and carbovir-TP (the active triphosphate form 
of abacavir, an analogue for guanosine) are substrates for and competitive inhibitors of HIV reverse 
transcriptase (RT). However, their main antiviral activity is through incorporation of the 
monophosphate form into the viral DNA chain, resulting in chain termination. Abacavir and 
lamivudine triphosphates show significantly less affinity for host cell DNA polymerases. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Antiviral activity in vitro  
Dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine have been shown to inhibit replication of lab-strains and 
clinical isolates of HIV in a number of cell types, including transformed T cell lines, 
monocyte/macrophage derived lines and primary cultures of activated peripheral blood mononuclear 
cells (PMBCs) and monocyte/macrophages.  The concentration of active substance necessary to effect 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
viral replication by 50% (IC50 - half maximal inhibitory concentration) varied according to virus and 
host cell type. 
The IC50 for dolutegravir in various lab-strains using PBMC was 0.5 nM, and when using MT-4 cells 
it ranged from 0.7-2 nM. Similar IC50s were seen for clinical isolates without any major difference 
between subtypes; in a panel of 24 HIV-1 isolates of clades A, B, C, D, E, F and G and group O the 
mean IC50 value was 0.2 nM (range 0.02-2.14). The mean IC50 for 3 HIV-2 isolates was 0.18 nM 
(range 0.09-0.61). 
The mean IC50 for abacavir against lab-strains of HIV-1IIIB and HIV-1HXB2 ranged from 1.4 to 
5.8 µM. The median or mean IC50 values for lamivudine against lab-strains of HIV-1 ranged from 
0.007 to 2.3 µM. The mean IC50 against lab-strains of HIV-2 (LAV2 and EHO) ranged from 1.57 to 
7.5 µM for abacavir and from 0.16 to 0.51 µM for lamivudine.  
The IC50 values of abacavir against HIV-1 Group M subtypes (A-G) ranged from 0.002 to 1.179 µM, 
against Group O from 0.022 to 1.21 µM, and against HIV-2 isolates, from 0.024 to 0.49 µM. For 
lamivudine, the IC50 values against HIV-1 subtypes (A-G) ranged from 0.001 to 0.170 µM, against 
Group O from 0.030 to 0.160 µM and against HIV-2 isolates from 0.002 to 0.120 µM in peripheral 
blood mononuclear cells. 
HIV-1 isolates (CRF01_AE, n=12; CRF02_AG, n=12; and Subtype C or CRF_AC, n=13) from 37 
untreated patients in Africa and Asia were susceptible to abacavir (IC50 fold changes < 2.5), and 
lamivudine (IC50 fold changes < 3.0), except for two CRF02_AG isolates with fold changes of 2.9 and 
3.4 for abacavir.  Group O isolates from antiviral naïve patients tested for lamivudine activity were 
highly sensitive. 
The combination of abacavir and lamivudine has demonstrated antiviral activity in cell culture against 
non-subtype B isolates and HIV-2 isolates with equivalent antiviral activity as for subtype B isolates.  
Antiviral activity in combination with other antiviral agents  
No antagonistic effects in vitro were seen with dolutegravir and other antiretrovirals (tested agents: 
stavudine, abacavir, efavirenz, nevirapine, lopinavir, amprenavir, enfuvirtide, maraviroc, adefovir and 
raltegravir).  In addition, ribavirin had no apparent effect on dolutegravir activity.   
The antiviral activity of abacavir in cell culture was not antagonized when combined with the 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) didanosine, emtricitabine, lamivudine, stavudine, 
tenofovir, zalcitabine or zidovudine, the non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) 
nevirapine, or the protease inhibitor (PI) amprenavir.  
No antagonistic effects in vitro were seen with lamivudine and other antiretrovirals (tested agents: 
abacavir, didanosine, nevirapine, zalcitabine, and zidovudine). 
Effect of human serum  
In 100% human serum, the mean fold shift for dolutegravir activity was 75-fold, resulting in protein 
adjusted IC90 of 0.064 ug/mL. Plasma protein binding studies in vitro indicate that abacavir binds only 
low to moderately (~49%) to human plasma proteins at therapeutic concentrations.  Lamivudine 
exhibits linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range and displays low plasma protein 
binding (less than 36%). 
Resistance  
Resistance in vitro: (dolutegravir)  
Serial passage is used to study resistance evolution in vitro. When using the lab-strain HIVIII during 
passage over 112 days, mutations selected appeared slowly, with substitutions at positions S153Y and 
F. These mutations were not selected in patients treated with dolutegravir in the clinical studies.  Using 
strain NL432 mutations E92Q (fold change 3) and G193E (fold change 3) were selected. These 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mutations have been selected in patients with pre-existing raltegravir resistance and who were then 
treated with dolutegravir (listed as secondary mutations for dolutegravir).  
In further selection experiments using clinical isolates of subtype B, mutation R263K was seen in all 
five isolates (after 20 weeks and onwards). In subtype C (n=2) and A/G (n=2) isolates the integrase 
substitution R263K was selected in one isolate, and G118R in two isolates.  R263K was reported from 
two individual patients with subtype B and subtype C in the clinical program for ART experienced, 
INI naive subjects, but without effects on dolutegravir susceptibility in vitro. G118R lowers the 
susceptibility to dolutegravir in site directed mutants (fold change 10), but was not detected in patients 
receiving dolutegravir in the Phase III program.   
Primary mutations for raltegravir/elvitegravir (Q148H/R/K, N155H, Y143R/H/C, E92Q, T66I) do not 
affect the in vitro susceptibility of dolutegravir as single mutations. When mutations listed as 
secondary integrase inhibitor associated mutations (for raltegravir/elvitegravir) are added to primary 
mutations (excluding at Q148) in experiments with site directed mutants, dolutegravir susceptibility 
remains at or near wildtype level.  In the case of the Q148-mutation viruses, increasing dolutegravir 
fold change is seen as the number of secondary mutations increase. The effect of the Q148-based 
mutations (H/R/K) was also consistent with in vitro passage experiments with site directed mutants.  
In serial passage with strain NL432-based site directed mutants at N155H or E92Q, no further 
selection of resistance was seen (fold change unchanged around 1). In contrast, starting passage with 
mutants with mutation Q148H (fold change 1), a variety of raltegravir associated secondary mutations 
accumulated with a consequent increase of fold change to values >10.  
A clinically relevant phenotypic cut-off value (fold change vs wild type virus) has not been 
determined; genotypic resistance was a better predictor for outcome. 
Seven hundred and five raltegravir resistant isolates from raltegravir experienced patients were 
analyzed for susceptibility to dolutegravir.  Dolutegravir has a <10-fold change against 94% of the 705 
clinical isolates. 
Resistance in vivo: (dolutegravir) 
In previously untreated patients receiving dolutegravir + 2 NRTIs in Phase IIb and Phase III, no 
development of resistance to the integrase class, or to the NRTI class was seen (n=876, follow-up of 
48-96 weeks).  
In patients with prior failed therapies, but naïve to the integrase class (SAILING study), integrase 
inhibitor substitutions were observed in 4/354 patients (follow-up 48 weeks) treated with dolutegravir, 
which was given in combination with an investigator selected background regimen (BR). Of these 
four, two subjects had a unique R263K integrase substitution, with a maximum fold change of 1.93, 
one subject had a polymorphic V151V/I integrase substitution, with maximum fold change of 0.92, 
and one subject had pre-existing integrase mutations and is assumed to have been integrase 
experienced or infected with integrase resistant virus by transmission. The R263K mutation was also 
selected in vitro (see above). 
Resistance in vitro and in vivo: (abacavir and lamivudine) 
Abacavir-resistant isolates of HIV-1 have been selected in vitro and in vivo and are associated with 
specific genotypic changes in the RT codon region (codons M184V, K65R, L74V and Y115F). During 
in vitro abacavir selection the M184V mutation occurred first and resulted in about a 2-fold increase in 
IC50, below the abacavir clinical cut-off of 4.5-fold change.  Continued passage in increasing 
concentrations of drug resulted in selection for double RT mutants 65R/184V and 74V/184V or triple 
RT mutant 74V/115Y/184V. Two mutations conferred a 7 to 8-fold change in abacavir susceptibility 
and combinations of three mutations were required to confer more than an 8-fold change in 
susceptibility. 
HIV-1 resistance to lamivudine involves the development of a M184I or M184V amino acid change 
close to the active site of the viral RT. This variant arises both in vitro and in HIV-1 infected patients 
treated with lamivudine-containing antiretroviral therapy.  M184V mutants display greatly reduced 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
susceptibility to lamivudine and show diminished viral replicative capacity in vitro. M184V is 
associated with about a 2-fold increase in abacavir resistance but does not confer clinical resistance for 
abacavir. 
Isolates resistant to abacavir may also show reduced sensitivity to lamivudine.  The combination of 
abacavir/lamivudine has demonstrated decreased susceptibility to viruses with the substitutions K65R 
with or without the M184V/I substitution, and to viruses with L74V plus the M184V/I substitution. 
Cross-resistance between dolutegravir or abacavir or lamivudine and antiretrovirals from other classes 
e.g. PIs or NNRTIs is unlikely.  
Effects on electrocardiogram  
No relevant effects were seen on the QTc interval, with doses of dolutegravir exceeding the clinical 
dose by approximately 3-fold.  Similar studies were not conducted with either abacavir or lamivudine. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of Triumeq in HIV-infected, therapy naive subjects is based on the analyses of data from 
a number of trials. The analyses included two randomised, international, double-blind, active-
controlled trials, SINGLE (ING114467) and SPRING-2 (ING113086), the international, open-label, 
active-controlled trial FLAMINGO (ING114915), and the randomised, open-label, active-controlled, 
multicentre, non-inferiority study ARIA (ING117172).  
The STRIIVING study (201147), was a randomised, open-label, active-controlled, multicentre, non-
inferiority switch study in virologically suppressed subjects with no documented history of resistance 
to any class.  
In SINGLE, 833 patients were treated with dolutegravir 50 mg film-coated tablets once daily plus 
fixed-dose abacavir-lamivudine (DTG + ABC/3TC) or fixed-dose efavirenz-tenofovir-emtricitabine 
(EFV/TDF/FTC). At baseline, median patient age was 35 years, 16% were female, 32% non-white, 
7% had hepatitis C co-infection and 4% were CDC Class C, these characteristics were similar between 
treatment groups. Week 48 outcomes (including outcomes by key baseline covariates) are shown in 
Table 3. 
Table 3:   Virologic Outcomes of Randomised Treatment of SINGLE at 48 Weeks (Snapshot  
algorithm) 
48 weeks 
DTG 50 mg + ABC/3TC 
once daily 
N=414 
88% 
EFV/TDF/FTC 
once daily 
N=419 
81% 
7.4% (95% CI: 2.5%, 12.3%) 
5% 
7% 
2% 
5% 
0 
6% 
13% 
10% 
3% 
<1% 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
  Treatment Difference* 
Virologic non response†  
No virologic data at Weeks 
48 window  
Reasons 
Discontinued study/study 
medicinal product due to 
adverse event or death‡  
Discontinued study/study 
medicinal product for other 
reasons§ 
Missing data during window 
but on study 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL by baseline covariates 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline Plasma Viral 
Load (copies/mL) 
  ≤100,000  
  >100,000  
Baseline CD4+ (cells/ mm3) 
  <200  
  200 to <350  
  ≥350 
Gender 
  Male  
  Female  
Race  
  White  
  African-American/African   
  Heritage/Other 
Age (years) 
  <50 
  ≥50 
n / N (%) 
253 / 280 (90%) 
111 / 134 (83%) 
45 / 57 (79%) 
143 / 163 (88%) 
176 / 194 (91%) 
307 / 347 (88%) 
57 / 67 (85%) 
255 / 284 (90%) 
109 / 130 (84%) 
319 / 361 (88%) 
45 / 53 (85%) 
n / N (%) 
238 / 288 (83%) 
100 / 131 (76%) 
48 / 62 (77%) 
126 / 159 (79%) 
164 / 198 (83%) 
291 / 356 (82%) 
47 / 63 (75%) 
238 /285 (84%) 
99 / 133 (74%) 
302 / 375 (81%) 
36 / 44 (82%) 
* Adjusted for baseline stratification factors. 
† Includes subjects who discontinued prior to Week 48 for lack or loss of efficacy and subjects 
who are ≥50 copies in the 48 week window.  
‡ Includes subjects who discontinued due to an adverse event or death at any time point from  
Day 1 through the Week 48 analysis window if this resulted in no virologic data on treatment 
during the analysis window.  
§ Includes reasons such as withdrew consent, loss to follow-up, moved, protocol deviation.  
Notes: ABC/3TC = abacavir 600 mg, lamivudine 300 mg in the form of Kivexa/Epzicom fixed 
dose combination (FDC) 
EFV/TDF/FTC = efavirenz 600 mg, tenofovir disoproxil 245 mg, emtricitabine 200 mg in the 
form of Atripla FDC. 
In the primary 48 weeks analysis, the proportion of patients with virologic suppression in the 
dolutegravir + ABC/3TC arm, was superior to the EFV/TDF/FTC arm, p=0.003, the same treatment 
difference was observed in subjects defined by baseline HIV RNA level (< or > 100,000 copies/mL). 
The median time to viral suppression was shorter with ABC/3TC + DTG (28 vs 84 days, p<0.0001). 
The adjusted mean change in CD4+ T cell count from baseline were 267 cells versus 208 cells/mm3, 
respectively (p<0.001). Both the time to viral suppression and change from baseline analyses were 
pre-specified and adjusted for multiplicity. At 96 weeks, the response was 80% vs 72%, respectively. 
The difference in the endpoint remained statistically significant (p=0.006).  The statistically higher 
responses on DTG+ABC/3TC were driven by a higher rate of withdrawals due to AEs in the 
EFV/TDF/FTC arm, irrespective of viral load strata. Overall treatment differences at Week 96 are 
applicable to patients with high and low Baseline viral loads. At 144 weeks in the open-label phase of 
SINGLE, virologic suppression was maintained, the DTG +ABC/3TC arm (71%) was superior to the 
EFV/TDF/FTC arm (63%), treatment difference was 8.3% (2.0, 14.6). 
In SPRING-2, 822 patients were treated with either dolutegravir 50 mg film-coated tablets once daily 
or raltegravir 400 mg twice daily (blinded), both with fixed-dose ABC/3TC (around 40%) or 
TDF/FTC (around 60%), given open label. Baseline demographics and outcomes are summarised in 
Table 4.  Dolutegravir was non-inferior to raltegravir, including within the subset of patients with the 
abacavir/lamivudine background regimen.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4:  Demographics and virologic outcomes of randomised treatment of SPRING-2 (snapshot 
algorithm) 
Demographics 
     Median Age (years) 
     Female 
    Non-white 
    Hepatitis B and/or C 
    CDC class C 
    ABC/3TC backbone 
Week 48 efficacy results 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
Treatment difference* 
     Virologic non response†  
     No virologic data at Weeks 48 window  
         Reasons 
Discontinued study/study medicinal product due to adverse 
event or death‡  
Discontinued study/study medicinal product for other 
reasons§ 
DTG 50 mg 
once daily 
+ 2 NRTI  
N=411 
RAL 400mg 
 twice daily 
+ 2 NRTI 
N=411 
37 
15% 
16% 
13% 
2% 
41% 
88% 
35 
14% 
14% 
11% 
2% 
40% 
85% 
2.5% (95% CI: -2.2%, 7.1%) 
5% 
7% 
2% 
5% 
8% 
7% 
1% 
6% 
86% 
87% 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL for those on ABC/3TC 
Week 96 efficacy results 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
Treatment difference* 
  HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL for those on ABC/3TC 
* Adjusted for baseline stratification factors. 
† Includes subjects who discontinued prior to Week 48 for lack or loss of efficacy and subjects who 
are ≥50 copies in the 48 week window.  
‡ Includes subjects who discontinued due to an adverse event or death at any time point from Day 1 
through the Week 48 analysis window if this resulted in no virologic data on treatment during the 
analysis window.  
§ Includes reasons such as protocol deviation, lost to follow up, and withdrew consent.  
Notes: DTG = dolutegravir, RAL = raltegravir. 
4.5% (95% CI: -1.1%, 10.0%) 
76% 
76% 
74% 
81% 
In FLAMINGO, 485 patients were treated with dolutegravir 50 mg film-coated tablets once daily or 
darunavir/ritonavir (DRV/r) 800 mg/100 mg once daily, both with ABC/3TC (around 33%) or 
TDF/FTC (around 67%). All treatments were given open-label.  Main demographics and outcomes are 
summarised in Table 5.  
Table 5:  Demographics and Week 48 virologic outcomes of randomised treatment of FLAMINGO 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(snapshot algorithm)  
Demographics 
     Median Age (years) 
     Female  
     Non-white  
     Hepatitis B and/or C 
     CDC class C  
     ABC/3TC backbone  
Week 48 Efficacy Results 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
Treatment Difference* 
      Virologic non response†  
      No virologic data at Weeks 48 window  
Reasons 
Discontinued study/study medicinal product due to adverse 
event or death‡  
Discontinued study/study medicinal product for other 
reasons§ 
Missing data during window but on study 
DTG 50 mg  
once daily 
 + 2 NRTI 
N=242 
DRV+RTV 
800mg + 100mg 
once daily 
+2 NRTI 
N=242 
34 
13% 
28% 
11% 
4% 
33% 
90% 
34 
17% 
27% 
8% 
2% 
33% 
83% 
7.1% (95% CI: 0.9%, 13.2%) 
6% 
4% 
1% 
2% 
7% 
10% 
4% 
5% 
<1% 
90% 
28 days 
2% 
85% 
85 days 
HIV-1 RNA <50copies/mL for those on ABC/3TC 
Median time to viral suppression** 
* Adjusted for baseline stratification factors, p=0.025. 
† Includes subjects who discontinued prior to Week 48 for lack or loss of efficacy and subjects who are 
≥50 copies in the 48 week window.  
‡ Includes subjects who discontinued due to an adverse event or death at any time point from Day 1 
through the Week 48 analysis window if this resulted in no virologic data on treatment during the 
analysis window.  
§ Includes reasons such as withdrew consent, loss to follow-up, protocol deviation. 
** p<0.001. 
Notes: DRV+RTV = darunavir + ritonavir, DTG = dolutegravir. 
At 96 weeks, virologic suppression in the dolutegravir group (80%) was superior to the DRV/r group 
(68%), (adjusted treatment difference [DTG-(DRV+RTV)]: 12.4%; 95% CI: [4.7, 20.2]). Response 
rates at 96 weeks were 82% for DTG+ABC/3TC and 75% for DRV/r+ABC/3TC. 
In ARIA (ING117172), a randomised, open-label, active-controlled, multicenter, parallel group, non-
inferiority study; 499 HIV-1 infected ART naïve adult women were randomised 1:1 to receive either; 
DTG/ABC/3TC FDC film-coated tablets 50 mg/600 mg/300 mg; or atazanavir 300 mg plus ritonavir 
100 mg plus tenofovir disproxil / emtricitabine 245 mg/200 mg (ATV+RTV+TDF/FTC FDC), all 
administered once daily.  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Demographics and Week 48 virologic outcomes of randomised treatment of ARIA  
(snapshot algorithm) 
Demographics 
    Median Age (years) 
 Female 
 Non-white 
 Hepatitis B and/ or C 
 CDC class C 
Week 48 Efficacy Results 
 HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
 Treatment difference 
   Virologic Failure  
       Reasons 
    Data in window not below 50 c/mL 
threshold 
    Discontinued for lack of efficacy 
    Discontinued for other reason while not 
below threshold 
No Virologic Data  
Discontinued due to AE or death 
Discontinued for other reasons 
Missing data during window but on study 
DTG/ABC/3TC 
FDC 
N=248 
ATV+RTV+TDF/FTC 
FDC 
N=247 
37 
100 % 
54 % 
6 % 
4 % 
82 % 
37 
100 % 
57 % 
9% 
4 % 
71 % 
10.5 (3.1% to 17.8%) [p=0.005]. 
6 % 
2 % 
2 % 
3 % 
12 % 
4 % 
6 % 
2 % 
14 % 
6 % 
<1 % 
7 % 
15 % 
7 % 
6 % 
2 % 
AE = Adverse event. 
HIV-1 - human immunodeficiency virus type 1 
DTG/ABC/3TC FDC - abacavir/dolutegravir/lamivudine fixed-dose combination 
ATV+RTV+TDF/FTC FDC -atazanavir plus ritonavir plus tenofovir disproxil/emtricitabine fixed-
dose combination 
STRIIVING (201147) is a 48-week, randomised, open-label, active controlled, multicenter, non-
inferiority study in patients without any prior treatment failure, and without any documented resistance 
to any class. Virologically suppressed (HIV-1 RNA <50 c/mL) subjects were randomly assigned (1:1) 
to continue their current ART regimen (2 NRTIs plus either a PI, NNRTI, or INI), or switch to 
ABC/DTG/3TC FDC film-coated tablets once daily (Early Switch). Hepatitis B co-infection was one 
of the main exclusion criteria.  
Patients were mainly white (66%) or black (28%) of male sex (87%). Main prior transmission routes 
were homosexual (73%) or heterosexual (29%) contact. The proportion with a positive HCV serology 
was 7%. The median time from first starting ART was around 4.5 years. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Outcomes of randomised treatment of STRIIVING (snapshot algorithm) 
Study Outcomes (Plasma HIV-1 RNA <50 c/mL) at Week 24 and Week 48 – Snapshot Analysis 
(ITT-E Population) 
ABC/DTG/3TC 
FDC 
N=275 
n (%) 
Current ART 
N=278 
n (%) 
Day 1 to W 24 
85 % 
1 % 
Day 1 to W 24 
88 % 
1 % 
1 % 
14 % 
4 % 
9 % 
1 % 
1 % 
10 % 
0 % 
10 % 
<1 % 
Early Switch 
ABC/DTG/3TC 
FDC 
N=275 
n (%) 
Late Switch 
ABC/DTG/3TC 
FDC 
N=244 
n (%) 
Day 1 to W48  W24 to W48 
83 % 
<1 % 
<1 % 
17 % 
4 % 
12 % 
2 % 
92 % 
1 % 
1 % 
7 % 
2 % 
3 % 
2 % 
Outcome Time Point 
Virologic Success 
Virologic Failure 
  Reasons 
Data in window not 
below threshold 
No Virologic Data 
Discontinued due to AE 
or death 
Discontinued for other 
reasons 
Missing data during 
window but on study 
ABC/DTG/3TC FDC = abacavir/dolutegravir/lamivudine fixed-dose combination; AE = adverse event; 
ART = antiretroviral therapy; HIV-1 = human immunodeficiency virus type 1; ITT-E = intent-to-treat 
exposed; W = week. 
Virologic suppression (HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL) in the ABC/DTG/3TC FDC group (85%) was 
statistically non-inferior to the current ART groups (88%) at 24 weeks. The adjusted difference in 
proportion and 95% CI [ABC/DTG/3TC vs current ART] were 3.4%; 95% CI: [-9.1, 2.4]. After 24 
weeks all remaining subjects switched to ABC/DTG/3TC FDC (Late Switch). Similar levels of 
virologic suppression were maintained in both the Early and Late Switch groups at 48 weeks. 
De novo resistance in patients failing therapy in SINGLE, SPRING-2 and FLAMINGO 
De novo resistance was not detected to the integrase class or the NRTI class in any patients who were 
treated with dolutegravir + abacavir/lamivudine in the three studies mentioned.   
For the comparators typical resistance was detected with TDF/FTC/EFV (SINGLE; six with NNRTI 
associated resistance and one with major NRTI resistance) and with 2 NRTIs + raltegravir (SPRING-
2; four with major NRTI resistance and one with raltegravir resistance), while no de novo resistance 
was detected in patients treated with 2 NRTIs + DRV/RTV (FLAMINGO). 
Paediatric population 
In an ongoing Phase I/II 48 week multicentre, open-label study (IMPAACT P1093/ING112578), the 
pharmacokinetic parameters, safety, tolerability and efficacy of dolutegravir were evaluated in 
combination regimens in HIV-1 infected infants, children and adolescents aged ≥ 4 weeks to < 18 
years, the majority of whom were treatment-experienced. 
Dolutegravir in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products was evaluated in treatment 
naïve or treatment-experienced, INSTI-naïve, HIV-1–infected subjects aged at least 4 weeks to 
18 years in an ongoing open-label, multicenter, dose-finding clinical study, IMPAACT P1093. 
Subjects were stratified by age cohort; subjects aged 12 to less than 18 years were enrolled in Cohort I 
and subjects aged 6 to less than 12 years were enrolled in Cohort IIA. Across both cohorts, 67% 
(16/24) of subjects who received the recommended dose (determined by weight and age) achieved 
HIV-1 RNA less than 50 copies per mL at Week 48 (Snapshot algorithm). 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abacavir and lamivudine once daily, in combination with a third antiretroviral medicinal product, 
were evaluated in a randomised, multicenter trial (ARROW) in HIV-1–infected, treatment-naïve 
subjects. Subjects randomised to once-daily dosing (n = 331) and who weighed at least 25 kg received 
abacavir 600 mg and lamivudine 300 mg, as either the single entities or as FDC. At Week 96, 69% of 
subjects receiving abacavir and lamivudine once-daily in combination with a third antiretroviral 
medicinal product, had HIV-1 RNA less than 80 copies per mL. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Triumeq film-coated tablet has been shown to be bioequivalent to dolutegravir single entity film-
coated tablet and abacavir/lamivudine fixed-dose combination tablet (ABC/3TC FDC) administered 
separately. This was demonstrated in a single dose, 2-way crossover bioequivalence study of Triumeq 
(fasted) versus 1 x 50 mg dolutegravir tablet, plus 1 x 600mg abacavir/300 mg lamivudine tablet 
(fasted) in healthy subjects (n=66).  
The relative bioavailability of abacavir and lamivudine administered in dispersible tablet form is 
comparable to film-coated tablets. The relative bioavailability of dolutegravir administered in 
dispersible tablet form is approximately 1.7-fold higher as compared to film-coated tablets. Thus, the 
Triumeq dispersible tablets are not directly interchangeable with Triumeq film-coated tablets (see 
section 4.2). 
The pharmacokinetic properties of dolutegravir, lamivudine and abacavir are described below.  
Absorption  
Dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine are rapidly absorbed following oral administration. The 
absolute bioavailability of dolutegravir has not been established. The absolute bioavailability of oral 
abacavir and lamivudine in adults is about 83% and 80-85% respectively. The mean time to maximal 
serum concentrations (tmax) is about 2 to 3 hours (post dose for tablet formulation), 1.5 hours and 
1.0 hour for dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine, respectively.  
Exposure to dolutegravir was generally similar between healthy subjects and HIV-1–infected subjects. 
In  HIV-1–infected  adult  subjects  following  dolutegravir  50 mg  film-coated  tablets  once  daily,  the 
steady-state  pharmacokinetic  parameters 
[%CV])  based  on  population 
pharmacokinetic analyses were AUC(0-24) = 53.6 (27) µg.h/mL, Cmax = 3.67 (20) µg/mL, and Cmin = 1.11 
(46) µg/mL. Following a single dose of 600 mg of abacavir, the mean (CV) Cmax is 4.26 µg/ml (28%) 
and  the  mean  (CV)  AUC∞  is  11.95 µg.h/ml  (21%).  Following  multiple-dose  oral  administration  of 
lamivudine 300 mg once daily for seven days, the mean (CV) steady-state Cmax is 2.04 µg/ml (26%) and 
the mean (CV) AUC24 is 8.87 µg.h/ml (21%). 
(geometric  mean 
The effect of a high fat meal on Triumeq film-coated tablet was evaluated in a subgroup of subjects 
(n=12) of the single dose, 2-way crossover bioequivalence study. Plasma Cmax and AUC of 
dolutegravir following administration of Triumeq film-coated tablets with a high fat meal were 37% 
and 48% higher, respectively, than those following administration of Triumeq film-coated tablets in 
the fasted state. For abacavir there was a decrease in Cmax with 23% and AUC was unchanged. The 
exposure of lamivudine was similar with and without food. These results indicate that Triumeq film-
coated tablets can be taken with or without food. 
Distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution of dolutegravir (following oral administration of suspension 
formulation, Vd/F) is estimated at 12.5 L.  Intravenous studies with abacavir and lamivudine showed 
that the mean apparent volume of distribution is 0.8 and 1.3 l/kg respectively. 
Dolutegravir is highly bound (> 99%) to human plasma proteins based on in vitro data.  Binding of 
dolutegravir to plasma proteins is independent of dolutegravir concentration.  Total blood and plasma 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
drug-related radioactivity concentration ratios averaged between 0.441 to 0.535, indicating minimal 
association of radioactivity with blood cellular components. The unbound fraction of dolutegravir in 
plasma is increased at low levels of serum albumin (<35 g/L) as seen in subjects with moderate 
hepatic impairment. Plasma protein binding studies in vitro indicate that abacavir binds only low to 
moderately (~49%) to human plasma proteins at therapeutic concentrations. Lamivudine exhibits 
linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range and displays limited plasma protein binding in 
vitro (< 36%). 
Dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine are present in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).   
In 13 treatment-naïve subjects on a stable dolutegravir plus abacavir/lamivudine regimen, dolutegravir 
concentration in CSF averaged 18 ng/mL (comparable to unbound plasma concentration, and above 
the IC50). Studies with abacavir demonstrate a CSF to plasma AUC ratio of between 30 to 44%. The 
observed values of the peak concentrations are 9-fold greater than the IC50 of abacavir of 0.08 µg/ml 
or 0.26 µM when abacavir is given at 600 mg twice daily. The mean ratio of CSF/serum lamivudine 
concentrations 2-4 hours after oral administration was approximately 12%. The true extent of CNS 
penetration of lamivudine and its relationship with any clinical efficacy is unknown. 
Dolutegravir is present in the female and male genital tract.  AUC in cervicovaginal fluid, cervical 
tissue and vaginal tissue were 6-10% of those in corresponding plasma at steady state. AUC in semen 
was 7% and 17% in rectal tissue of those in corresponding plasma at steady state. 
Biotransformation 
Dolutegravir is primarily metabolised via UGT1A1 with a minor CYP3A component (9.7% of total 
dose administered in a human mass balance study).  Dolutegravir is the predominant circulating 
compound in plasma; renal elimination of unchanged active substance is low (< 1% of the dose).  
Fifty-three percent of total oral dose is excreted unchanged in the faeces. It is unknown if all or part of 
this is due to unabsorbed active substance or biliary excretion of the glucuronidate conjugate, which 
can be further degraded to form the parent compound in the gut lumen.  Thirty-two percent of the total 
oral dose is excreted in the urine, represented by ether glucuronide of dolutegravir (18.9% of total 
dose), N-dealkylation metabolite (3.6% of total dose), and a metabolite formed by oxidation at the 
benzylic carbon (3.0% of total dose). 
Abacavir is primarily metabolised by the liver with approximately 2% of the administered dose being 
renally excreted, as unchanged compound. The primary pathways of metabolism in man are by alcohol 
dehydrogenase and by glucuronidation to produce the 5’-carboxylic acid and 5’-glucuronide which 
account for about 66% of the administered dose. These metabolites are excreted in the urine. 
Metabolism of lamivudine is a minor route of elimination. Lamivudine is predominately cleared by 
renal excretion of unchanged lamivudine. The likelihood of metabolic drug interactions with 
lamivudine is low due to the small extent of hepatic metabolism (5-10%). 
Drug interactions 
In vitro, dolutegravir demonstrated no direct, or weak inhibition (IC50>50 μM) of the enzymes 
cytochrome P450 (CYP)1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A, 
UGT1A1 or UGT2B7, or the transporters Pgp, BCRP, BSEP, organic anion transporting polypeptide 
1B1 (OATP1B1), OATP1B3, OCT1, MATE2-K, multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2) or 
MRP4. In vitro, dolutegravir did not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6 or CYP3A4. Based on this data, 
dolutegravir is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of medicinal products that are substrates of 
major enzymes or transporters (see section 4.5). 
In vitro, dolutegravir was not a substrate of human OATP 1B1, OATP 1B3 or OCT 1. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro, abacavir did not inhibit or induce CYP enzymes (other than CY1A1 and CYP3A4 [limited 
potential], see section 4.5) and demonstrates no or weak inhibition of OATP1B1, OAT1B3, OCT1, 
OCT2, BCRP and P-gp or MATE2-K.  Abacavir is therefore not expected to affect the plasma 
concentrations of medicinal products that are substrates of these enzymes or transporters. 
Abacavir was not significantly metabolised by CYP enzymes.  In vitro, abacavir was not a substrate of 
OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, OCT2, OAT1, MATE1, MATE2-K, MRP2 or MRP4 therefore 
medicinal products that modulate these transporters are not expected to affect abacavir plasma 
concentrations.  
In vitro, lamivudine did not inhibit or induce CYP enzymes (such as CYP3A4, CYP2C9 or CYP2D6) 
and demonstrated no or weak inhibition of OATP1B1, OAT1B3, OCT3, BCRP, P-gp, MATE1 or 
MATE2-K.  Lamivudine is therefore not expected to affect the plasma concentrations of medicinal 
products that are substrates of these enzymes or transporters. 
Lamivudine was not significantly metabolised by CYP enzymes.  
Elimination  
Dolutegravir has a terminal half-life of ~14 hours. The apparent oral clearance (CL/F) is 
approximately 1 L/hr in HIV-infected patients based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis.  
The mean half-life of abacavir is about 1.5 hours. The geometric mean terminal half-life of 
intracellular active moiety carbovirtriphosphate (TP) at steady-state is 20.6 hours. Following multiple 
oral doses of abacavir 300 mg twice a day there is no significant accumulation of abacavir. 
Elimination of abacavir is via hepatic metabolism with subsequent excretion of metabolites primarily 
in the urine. The metabolites and unchanged abacavir account for about 83% of the administered 
abacavir dose in the urine. The remainder is eliminated in the faeces. 
The observed lamivudine half-life of elimination is 18 to 19 hours. For patients receiving lamivudine 
300 mg once daily, the terminal intracellular half-life of lamivudine-TP was 16 to 19 hours. The mean 
systemic clearance of lamivudine is approximately 0.32 L/h/kg, predominantly by renal clearance 
(> 70%) via the organic cationic transport system. Studies in patients with renal impairment show 
lamivudine elimination is affected by renal dysfunction. Dose reduction is required for patients with 
creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min (see section 4.2).  
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship(s)  
In a randomised, dose-ranging trial, HIV-1–infected subjects treated with dolutegravir monotherapy 
(ING111521) demonstrated rapid and dose-dependent antiviral activity with mean decline in HIV-1 
RNA of 2.5 log10 at day 11 for 50 mg dose. This antiviral response was maintained for 3 to 4 days 
after the last dose in the 50 mg group. 
Intracellular pharmacokinetics  
The geometric mean terminal carbovir-TP intracellular half-life at steady-state was 20.6 hours, 
compared to the geometric mean abacavir plasma half-life of 2.6 hours. The terminal intracellular half-
life of lamivudine-TP was prolonged to 16-19 hours,  supporting once daily dosing of ABC and 3TC.  
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Pharmacokinetic data has been obtained for dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine separately.  
Dolutegravir is primarily metabolised and eliminated by the liver. A single dose of 50 mg of 
dolutegravir was administered to 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and to 8 matched healthy adult controls. While the total dolutegravir concentration in plasma was 
similar, a 1.5 to 2-fold increase in unbound exposure to dolutegravir was observed in subjects with 
moderate hepatic impairment compared to healthy controls. No dose adjustment is considered 
necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. The effect of severe hepatic 
impairment on the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir has not been studied. 
Abacavir is metabolised primarily by the liver. The pharmacokinetics of abacavir have been studied in 
patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5-6) receiving a single 600 mg dose. The 
results showed that there was a mean increase of 1.89-fold [1.32; 2.70] in the abacavir AUC, and 1.58 
[1.22; 2.04] fold in the elimination half-life. No recommendation on dose reduction is possible in 
patients with mild hepatic impairment due to substantial variability of abacavir exposure.  
Data obtained in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment show that lamivudine 
pharmacokinetics are not significantly affected by hepatic dysfunction. 
Based on data obtained for abacavir, Triumeq is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe 
hepatic impairment. 
Renal impairment 
Pharmacokinetic data have been obtained for dolutegravir, lamivudine and abacavir separately. 
Renal clearance of unchanged active substance is a minor pathway of elimination for dolutegravir. A 
study of the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir was performed in subjects with severe renal impairment 
(CrCl <30 mL/min). No clinically important pharmacokinetic differences between subjects with severe 
renal impairment (CrCl <30 mL/min) and matching healthy subjects were observed. Dolutegravir has 
not been studied in patients on dialysis, though differences in exposure are not expected. 
Abacavir is primarily metabolised by the liver with approximately 2% of abacavir excreted unchanged 
in the urine. The pharmacokinetics of abacavir in patients with end-stage renal disease is similar to 
patients with normal renal function. 
Studies with lamivudine show that plasma concentrations (AUC) are increased in patients with renal 
dysfunction due to decreased clearance.  
Based on the lamivudine data, Triumeq is not recommended for patients with creatinine clearance of 
< 30 mL/min. 
Elderly 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis of dolutegravir using data from HIV-1 infected adults showed 
that there was no clinically relevant effect of age on dolutegravir exposure. 
Pharmacokinetic data for dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine in subjects >65 years of age are 
limited. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir film-coated and dispersible tablets in HIV-1 infected infants, 
children and adolescents aged ≥ 4 weeks to < 18 years were evaluated in two on-going studies 
(IMPAACT P1093/ING112578 and ODYSSEY/201296). Mean dolutegravir AUC0-24h and C24h in 
HIV-1–infected paediatric subjects weighing at least 14 kg were comparable to those in adults after 50 
mg once daily or 50 mg twice daily. Mean Cmax is higher in paediatrics, but the increase is not 
considered clinically significant as the safety profiles were similar in paediatric and adult subjects.  
Pharmacokinetic data are available for abacavir and lamivudine in children and adolescents receiving 
recommended dose regimens of the oral solution and tablet formulations. Pharmacokinetic parameters 
are comparable to those reported in adults. In children and adolescents weighing 14 kg to less than 25 
kg, at recommended doses, predicted exposures (AUC0-24h) for abacavir and lamivudine with Triumeq 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dispersible tablets are within the predicted exposure range of the individual components based on 
population pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation.  
Polymorphisms in drug metabolising enzymes 
There is no evidence that common polymorphisms in drug metabolising enzymes alter dolutegravir 
pharmacokinetics to a clinically meaningful extent. In a meta-analysis using pharmacogenomics 
samples collected in clinical studies in healthy subjects, subjects with UGT1A1 (n=7) genotypes 
conferring poor dolutegravir metabolism had a 32% lower clearance of dolutegravir and 46% higher 
AUC compared with subjects with genotypes associated with normal metabolism via UGT1A1 
(n=41).  
Gender 
Population PK analyses using pooled pharmacokinetic data from Phase IIb and Phase III adult trials 
revealed no clinically relevant effect of gender on the exposure of dolutegravir. There is no evidence 
that a dose adjustment of dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine would be required based on the effects 
of gender on PK parameters. 
Race 
Population PK analyses using pooled pharmacokinetic data from Phase IIb and Phase III adult trials 
revealed no clinically relevant effect of race on the exposure of dolutegravir. The pharmacokinetics of 
dolutegravir following single dose oral administration to Japanese subjects appear similar to observed 
parameters in Western (US) subjects. There is no evidence that a dose adjustment of dolutegravir, 
abacavir or lamivudine would be required based on the effects of race on PK parameters. 
Co-infection with Hepatitis B or C 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that hepatitis C virus co-infection had no clinically 
relevant effect on the exposure to dolutegravir. There are limited pharmacokinetic data on subjects 
with hepatitis B co-infection (see section 4.4). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
There are no data available on the effects of the combination of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine 
in animals, except a negative in vivo rat micronucleus test which tested the effects of the combination 
of abacavir and lamivudine.   
Mutagenicity and carcinogenicity  
Dolutegravir was not mutagenic or clastogenic using in vitro tests in bacteria and cultured mammalian 
cells, and an in vivo rodent micronucleus assay.  
Neither abacavir nor lamivudine were mutagenic in bacterial tests, but consistent with other nucleoside 
analogues, inhibit cellular DNA replication in in vitro mammalian tests such as the mouse lymphoma 
assay. The results of an in vivo rat micronucleus test with abacavir and lamivudine in combination 
were negative.  
Lamivudine has not shown any genotoxic activity in the in vivo studies. Abacavir has a weak potential 
to cause chromosomal damage both in vitro and in vivo at high tested concentrations.  
The carcinogenic potential of a combination of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine has not been 
tested. Dolutegravir was not carcinogenic in long term studies in the mouse and rat. In long-term oral 
carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice, lamivudine did not show any carcinogenic potential. 
Carcinogenicity studies with orally administered abacavir in mice and rats showed an increase in the 
incidence of malignant and non-malignant tumours. Malignant tumours occurred in the preputial gland 
of males and the clitoral gland of females of both species, and in rats in the thyroid gland of males and 
in the liver, urinary bladder, lymph nodes and the subcutis of females.  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The majority of these tumours occurred at the highest abacavir dose of 330 mg/kg/day in mice and 
600 mg/kg/day in rats. The exception was the preputial gland tumour which occurred at a dose of 
110 mg/kg in mice. The systemic exposure at the no effect level in mice and rats was equivalent to 3 
and 7 times the human systemic exposure during therapy. While the clinical relevance of these 
findings is unknown, these data suggest that a potential carcinogenic risk to humans is outweighed by 
the clinical benefit. 
Repeat-dose toxicity  
The effect of prolonged daily treatment with high doses of dolutegravir has been evaluated in repeat 
oral dose toxicity studies in rats (up to 26 weeks) and in monkeys (up to 38 weeks).  The primary 
effect of dolutegravir was gastrointestinal intolerance or irritation in rats and monkeys at doses that 
produce systemic exposures approximately 38 and 1.5 times the 50 mg human clinical exposure based 
on AUC, respectively.  Because gastrointestinal (GI) intolerance is considered to be due to local active 
substance administration, mg/kg or mg/m2 metrics are appropriate determinates of safety cover for this 
toxicity.  GI intolerance in monkeys occurred at 30 times the human mg/kg equivalent dose (based on 
50 kg human), and 11 times the human mg/m2 equivalent dose for a total daily clinical dose of 50 mg.   
In toxicology studies abacavir was shown to increase liver weights in rats and monkeys. The clinical 
relevance of this is unknown. There is no evidence from clinical studies that abacavir is hepatotoxic. 
Additionally, autoinduction of abacavir metabolism or induction of the metabolism of other medicinal 
products hepatically metabolised has not been observed in humans. 
Mild myocardial degeneration in the heart of mice and rats was observed following administration of 
abacavir for two years. The systemic exposures were equivalent to 7 to 21 times the expected systemic 
exposure in humans. The clinical relevance of this finding has not been determined. 
Reproductive toxicology  
In reproductive toxicity studies in animals, dolutegravir, lamivudine and abacavir were shown to cross 
the placenta. 
Oral administration of dolutegravir to pregnant rats at doses up to 1000 mg/kg daily from days 6 to 17 
of gestation did not elicit maternal toxicity, developmental toxicity or teratogenicity (50 times the 
50 mg human clinical exposure when administered in combination with abacavir and lamivudine 
based on AUC). 
Oral administration of dolutegravir to pregnant rabbits at doses up to 1000 mg/kg daily from days 6 to 
18 of gestation did not elicit developmental toxicity or teratogenicity (0.74 times the 50mg human 
clinical exposure when administered in combination with abacavir and lamivudine based on AUC).  In 
rabbits, maternal toxicity (decreased food consumption, scant/no faeces/urine, suppressed body weight 
gain) was observed at 1000 mg/kg (0.74 times the 50 mg human clinical exposure when administered 
in combination with abacavir and lamivudine based on AUC). 
Lamivudine was not teratogenic in animal studies but there were indications of an increase in early 
embryonic deaths in rabbits at relatively low systemic exposures, comparable to those achieved in 
humans. A similar effect was not seen in rats even at very high systemic exposure. 
Abacavir demonstrated toxicity to the developing embryo and foetus in rats, but not in rabbits. These 
findings included decreased foetal body weight, foetal oedema, and an increase in skeletal 
variations/malformations, early intra-uterine deaths and still births. No conclusion can be drawn with 
regard to the teratogenic potential of abacavir because of this embryo-foetal toxicity. 
Fertility studies in rats have shown that dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine have no effect on male 
or female fertility. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1  List of excipients  
Tablet core  
Mannitol (E421)  
Microcrystalline cellulose  
Povidone (K29/32)  
Sodium starch glycollate  
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coating 
Poly(vinyl) alcohol – partially hydrolysed  
Titanium dioxide  
Macrogol 
Talc  
Iron oxide black  
Iron oxide red  
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life  
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Keep the bottle tightly closed. Do not 
remove the desiccant.  
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
White HDPE (high density polyethylene) bottles closed with polypropylene child-resistant closures, 
with a polyethylene faced induction heat seal liner.  
Each bottle contains 30 film-coated tablets and a desiccant.  
Multipacks containing 90 (3 packs of 30) film-coated tablets. Each pack of 30 film-coated tablets 
contains a desiccant. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
ViiV Healthcare BV 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55H 
3811 LP Amersfoort 
Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/940/001 
EU/1/14/940/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 1st September 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 20th June 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu  
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Triumeq 5 mg/60 mg/30 mg dispersible tablets  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each dispersible tablet contains 5 mg dolutegravir (as sodium), 60 mg of abacavir (as sulfate) and 30 
mg of lamivudine.  
For the full list of excipients see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Dispersible tablet  
Yellow, biconvex, capsule shaped, dispersible tablets, approximately 14 x 7 mm debossed with ‘SV 
WTU’ on one side.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Triumeq is indicated for the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infected children 
weighing at least 14 kg to less than 25 kg (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
Before initiating treatment with abacavir-containing products, screening for carriage of the HLA-
B*5701 allele should be performed in any HIV-infected patient, irrespective of racial origin (see 
section 4.4). Abacavir should not be used in patients known to carry the HLA-B*5701 allele. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Therapy should be prescribed by a physician experienced in the management of HIV infection.  
Posology  
Children (weighing at least 14 kg to less than 25 kg) 
The recommended dose of Triumeq dispersible tablets is determined according to weight (see Table 
1). 
Table 1 
Dispersible tablet dose recommendations in children weighing at least 14 kg to 
less than 25 kg 
Body weight 
(kg) 
14 to less than 
20  
Daily dose 
25 mg DTG, 300 mg ABC, 150 
mg 3TC once daily 
Number of tablets 
Five  
20 to less than 
25  
30 mg DTG, 360 mg ABC, 180 
mg 3TC once daily 
Six  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DTG= dolutegravir, ABC= abacavir, 3TC= lamivudine. 
Children (weighing at least 14 kg), concomitantly administered with strong enzyme inducers 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir should be modified when Triumeq dispersible tablets are co-
administered with etravirine (without boosted protease inhibitors), efavirenz, nevirapine, rifampicin, 
tipranavir/ritonavir, carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital and St. John’s wort (see Table 2). 
Table 2 
Dispersible tablet dose recommendations in children weighing at least 14 kg to 
less than 25 kg when administered concomitantly with strong enzyme inducers 
Body weight (kg) 
14 to less than 20  
Daily dose 
25 mg DTG, 300 mg ABC, 150 
mg 3TC once daily 
Number of tablets 
Five  
AND 
An extra 25 mg dose of 
dolutegravir dispersible tablets 
administered approximately 12 
hours after Triumeq.*OR 
An extra 40 mg dose of 
dolutegravir film-coated tablets 
administered approximately 12 
hours after Triumeq.* 
AND 
Refer to labelling for dolutegravir 
dispersible tablets.  
OR 
Refer to  labelling for 
dolutegravir film-coated tablets.  
20 to less than 25 
30 mg DTG, 360 mg ABC, 180 
mg 3TC once daily 
Six  
AND 
An extra 30 mg dose of 
dolutegravir dispersible tablets 
administered approximately 12 
hours after Triumeq.* 
OR 
An extra 50 mg dose of 
dolutegravir film-coated tablets 
administered approximately 12 
hours after Triumeq.* 
AND 
Refer to  labelling for 
dolutegravir dispersible tablets.  
OR 
Refer to  labelling for 
dolutegravir film-coated tablets.  
*In these cases the physician should refer to the individual product information for dolutegravir. 
Separate preparations of dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine are available in cases where 
discontinuation or dose adjustment of one of the active substances is indicated. In these cases, the 
physician should refer to the individual product information for these medicinal products. 
A separate dose of dolutegravir (film-coated tablets or dispersible tablets) is applicable where a dose 
adjustment is indicated due to drug-drug interactions (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, 
phenytoin, phenobarbital, St. John’s wort, etravirine (without boosted protease inhibitors), efavirenz, 
nevirapine, or tipranavir/ritonavir (see Table 2 and section 4.5). 
Film-coated tablets 
Triumeq is available as film-coated tablets for patients who weigh at least 25 kg. The bioavailability of 
dolutegravir from film-coated tablets and dispersible tablets is not comparable; therefore, they must 
not be used as direct replacements (see section 5.2).  
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missed doses 
If the patient misses a dose of Triumeq, the patient should take it as soon as possible, providing the 
next dose is not due within 4 hours. If the next dose is due within 4 hours, the patient should not take 
the missed dose and simply resume the usual dosing schedule. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
There are limited data available on the use of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine in patients aged 
65 years and over. There is no evidence that elderly patients require a different dose than younger 
adult patients (see section 5.2).  
Renal impairment  
There are no data available on the use of lamivudine in children with renal impairment who weigh less 
than 25 kg. Therefore, Triumeq is not recommended for use in adolescents or children weighing at 
least 14 kg to less than 25 kg with a creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Abacavir is primarily metabolised by the liver. No clinical data are available in patients with moderate 
or severe hepatic impairment, therefore the use of Triumeq in such patients is not recommended unless 
judged necessary. In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5-6) close monitoring is 
required, including monitoring of abacavir plasma levels if feasible (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of Triumeq in children weighing less than 14 kg has not yet been established.  
Currently available data are described in section 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2, but no recommendation on a 
posology can be made.  
Method of administration 
Oral use 
Triumeq can be taken with or without food (see section 5.2). Triumeq must be dispersed in drinking 
water. The tablet(s) should be fully dispersed in 20 mL of drinking water, before swallowing. Do not 
chew, cut or crush the tablets. The dose of medicinal product must be given within 30 minutes of 
preparation. If it has been more than 30 minutes the dose should be washed away and a new dose 
should be prepared (see section 6.6 and Step-by-step instructions for use).  
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
Co-administration with medicinal products with narrow therapeutic windows, that are substrates of 
organic cation transporter (OCT) 2, including but not limited to fampridine (also known as 
dalfampridine; see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Hypersensitivity reactions (see section 4.8)  
Both abacavir and dolutegravir are associated with a risk for hypersensitivity reactions (HSR) (see 
section 4.8), and share some common features such as fever and/or rash with other symptoms 
indicating multi-organ involvement. Clinically it is not possible to determine whether a HSR with 
Triumeq would be caused by abacavir or dolutegravir. Hypersensitivity reactions have been 
observed more commonly with abacavir, some of which have been life-threatening, and in rare 
cases, fatal, when not managed appropriately. The risk for abacavir HSR to occur is high for 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients who test positive for the HLA-B*5701 allele. However, abacavir HSRs have been reported 
at a low frequency in patients who do not carry this allele.  
Therefore, the following should always be adhered to: 
- HLA-B*5701 status must always be documented prior to initiating therapy. 
- Triumeq should never be initiated in patients with a positive HLA-B*5701 status, nor in patients 
with a negative HLA-B*5701 status who had a suspected abacavir HSR on a previous abacavir-
containing regimen.  
- Triumeq must be stopped without delay, even in the absence of the HLA-B*5701 allele, if an 
HSR is suspected. Delay in stopping treatment with Triumeq after the onset of hypersensitivity may 
result in an immediate and life-threatening reaction. Clinical status including liver 
aminotransferases and bilirubin should be monitored. 
- After stopping treatment with Triumeq for reasons of a suspected HSR, Triumeq or any other 
medicinal product containing abacavir or dolutegravir must never be re-initiated.  
- Restarting abacavir containing products following a suspected abacavir HSR can result in a 
prompt return of symptoms within hours. This recurrence is usually more severe than on initial 
presentation, and may include life-threatening hypotension and death.  
- In order to avoid restarting abacavir and dolutegravir, patients who have experienced a suspected 
HSR should be instructed to dispose of their remaining Triumeq tablets.  
Clinical description of HSRs 
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in <1% of patients treated with dolutegravir in 
clinical studies, and were characterized by rash, constitutional findings, and sometimes, organ 
dysfunction, including severe liver reactions. 
Abacavir HSR has been well characterised through clinical studies and during post marketing 
follow-up. Symptoms usually appeared within the first six weeks (median time to onset 11 days) of 
initiation of treatment with abacavir, although these reactions may occur at any time during 
therapy. 
Almost all HSR to abacavir will include fever and/or rash. Other signs and symptoms that have 
been observed as part of abacavir HSR are described in detail in section 4.8 (Description of selected 
adverse reactions), including respiratory and gastrointestinal symptoms. Importantly, such 
symptoms may lead to misdiagnosis of HSR as respiratory disease (pneumonia, bronchitis, 
pharyngitis), or gastroenteritis. The symptoms related to this HSR worsen with continued therapy 
and can be life- threatening. These symptoms usually resolve upon discontinuation of abacavir.  
Rarely, patients who have stopped abacavir for reasons other than symptoms of HSR have also 
experienced life-threatening reactions within hours of re- initiating abacavir therapy (see Section 4.8 
Description of selected adverse reactions).  Restarting abacavir in such patients must be done in a 
setting where medical assistance is readily available. 
Weight and metabolic parameters 
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to disease control and lifestyle. For lipids and weight, 
there is in some cases evidence for a treatment effect. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
reference is made to established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as 
clinically appropriate. 
Liver disease 
The safety and efficacy of Triumeq has not been established in patients with significant underlying 
liver disorders. Triumeq is not recommended in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
Patients with pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis have an increased 
frequency of liver function abnormalities during combination antiretroviral therapy, and should be 
monitored according to standard practice. If there is evidence of worsening liver disease in such 
patients, interruption or discontinuation of treatment must be considered.  
Patients with chronic hepatitis B or C 
Patients with chronic hepatitis B or C and treated with combination antiretroviral therapy are at an 
increased risk of severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of concomitant antiviral 
therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer also to the relevant product information for these medicinal 
products.  
Triumeq includes lamivudine, which is active against hepatitis B. Abacavir and dolutegravir lack such 
activity. Lamivudine monotherapy is generally not considered an adequate treatment for hepatitis B, 
since the risk for hepatitis B resistance development is high. If Triumeq is used in patients co-infected 
with hepatitis B an additional antiviral is, therefore, generally needed. Reference should be made to 
treatment guidelines.  
If Triumeq is discontinued in patients co-infected with hepatitis B virus, periodic monitoring of both 
liver function tests and markers of HBV replication is recommended, as withdrawal of lamivudine 
may result in an acute exacerbation of hepatitis. 
Immune Reactivation Syndrome 
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of institution of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first few weeks or months of initiation of CART. 
Relevant examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections, 
and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (often referred to as PCP). Any inflammatory symptoms should 
be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease 
and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reactivation; 
however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur many months after 
initiation of treatment. 
Liver chemistry elevations consistent with immune reconstitution syndrome were observed in some 
hepatitis B and/or C co-infected patients at the start of dolutegravir therapy.  Monitoring of liver 
chemistries is recommended in patients with hepatitis B and/or C co-infection. (See ‘Patients with 
chronic hepatitis B or C’ earlier in this section and also see section 4.8). 
Mitochondrial dysfunction following exposure in utero 
Nucleoside and nucleotide analogues may impact mitochondrial function to a variable degree, which is 
most pronounced with stavudine, didanosine and zidovudine. There have been reports of 
mitochondrial dysfunction in HIV-negative infants exposed in utero and/or post-natally to nucleoside 
analogues; these have predominantly concerned treatment with regimens containing zidovudine. The 
main adverse reactions reported are haematological disorders (anaemia, neutropenia), and metabolic 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disorders (hyperlactatemia, hyperlipasemia). These reactions have often been transitory. Some late-
onset neurological disorders have been reported rarely (hypertonia, convulsion, abnormal behaviour). 
Whether such neurological disorders are transient or permanent is currently unknown. These findings 
should be considered for any child exposed in utero to nucleoside and nucleotide analogues, who 
presents with severe clinical findings of unknown aetiology, particularly neurologic findings.  These 
findings do not affect current national recommendations to use antiretroviral therapy in pregnant 
women to prevent vertical transmission of HIV. 
Cardiovascular events 
Although the available data from clinical and observational studies with abacavir show inconsistent 
results, several studies suggest an increased risk of cardiovascular events (notably myocardial 
infarction) in patients treated with abacavir. Therefore, when prescribing Triumeq, action should be 
taken to minimise all modifiable risk factors (e.g. smoking, hypertension, and hyperlipidaemia). 
In addition, alternative treatment options to the abacavir containing regimen should be considered when 
treating patients with a high cardiovascular risk. 
Osteonecrosis 
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, 
bisphosphonates, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of 
osteonecrosis have been reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV-disease and/or long-term 
exposure to CART. Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience joint aches 
and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement. 
Opportunistic infections 
Patients should be advised that Triumeq or any other antiretroviral therapy does not cure HIV 
infection and that they may still develop opportunistic infections and other complications of HIV 
infection. Therefore, patients should remain under close clinical observation by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of these associated HIV diseases. 
Drug resistance  
The use of Triumeq is not recommended for patients with integrase inhibitor resistance because there 
are insufficient data to recommend a dose for dolutegravir in integrase inhibitor resistant adolescents, 
children and infants. 
Drug interactions  
The recommended dose of dolutegravir should be adjusted when co-administered with rifampicin, 
carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, St. John’s wort, etravirine (without boosted 
protease inhibitors), efavirenz, nevirapine, or tipranavir/ritonavir (see section 4.5). 
Triumeq should not be co-administered with polyvalent cation-containing antacids. Triumeq is 
recommended to be administered 2 hours before or 6 hours after these medicinal products (see section 
4.5). 
When taken with food, Triumeq and supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or 
magnesium can be taken at the same time. If Triumeq is administered under fasting conditions, 
supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or magnesium are recommended to be taken 2 
hours after or 6 hours before Triumeq (see section 4.5). 
Dolutegravir increased metformin concentrations. A dose adjustment of metformin should be 
considered when starting and stopping coadministration of dolutegravir with metformin, to maintain 
glycaemic control (see section 4.5). Metformin is eliminated renally and therefore it is of importance 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to monitor renal function when co-treated with dolutegravir. This combination may increase the risk 
for lactic acidosis in patients with moderate renal impairment (stage 3a creatinine clearance [CrCl] 45– 
59 mL/min) and a cautious approach is recommended. Reduction of the metformin dose should be 
highly considered.   
The combination of lamivudine with cladribine is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Triumeq should not be taken with any other medicinal products containing dolutegravir, abacavir, 
lamivudine or emtricitabine, except where a dose adjustment of dolutegravir is indicated due to drug-
drug interactions (see section 4.5).  
Excipients 
Triumeq contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say is essentially ‘sodium 
free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Triumeq contains dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine, therefore any interactions identified for these 
individually are relevant to Triumeq. No clinically significant drug interactions are expected between 
dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine. 
Effect of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine 
Dolutegravir is eliminated mainly through metabolism by uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl 
transferase (UGT) 1A1. Dolutegravir is also a substrate of UGT1A3, UGT1A9, CYP3A4, P-
glycoprotein (P-gp), and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). Co-administration of Triumeq and 
other medicinal products that inhibit UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A9, CYP3A4, and/or P-gp may 
therefore increase dolutegravir plasma concentration. Medicinal products that induce those enzymes or 
transporters may decrease dolutegravir plasma concentration and reduce the therapeutic effect of 
dolutegravir (see Table 3). 
The absorption of dolutegravir is reduced by certain anti-acid medicinal products (see Table 3).  
Abacavir is metabolised by UGT (UGT2B7) and alcohol dehydrogenase; co-administration of 
inducers (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine and phenytoin) or inhibitors (e.g. valproic acid) of UGT 
enzymes or with compounds eliminated through alcohol dehydrogenase could alter abacavir exposure.  
Lamivudine is cleared renally. Active renal secretion of lamivudine in the urine is mediated through 
the OCT2 and multidrug and toxin extrusion transporters (MATE1 and MATE2-K). Trimethoprim (an 
inhibitor of these drug transporters) has been shown to increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, 
however the resulting increase was not clinically significant (see Table 3).  Dolutegravir is an OCT2 
and MATE1 inhibitor; however, lamivudine concentrations were similar with or without co-
administration of dolutegravir based on a cross study analysis, indicating that dolutegravir has no 
effect on lamivudine exposure in vivo. Lamivudine is also a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter 
OCT1. As hepatic elimination plays a minor role in the clearance of lamivudine, drug interactions due 
to inhibition of OCT1 are unlikely to be of clinical significance. 
Although abacavir and lamivudine are substrates of BCRP and P-gp in vitro, given the high absolute 
bioavailability of abacavir and lamivudine, (see section 5.2), inhibitors of these efflux transporters are 
unlikely to result in a clinically relevant impact on abacavir or lamivudine concentrations.  
Effect of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products  
In vivo, dolutegravir did not have an effect on midazolam, a CYP3A4 probe. Based on in vivo and/or 
in vitro data, dolutegravir is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of medicinal products that are 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substrates of any major enzyme or transporter such as CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and P-gp (for more 
information see section 5.2). 
In vitro, dolutegravir inhibited the renal transporters OCT2 and MATE1. In vivo, a 10-14% decrease 
of creatinine clearance (secretory fraction is dependent on OCT2 and MATE1 transport) was observed 
in patients. In vivo, dolutegravir may increase plasma concentrations of medicinal products in which 
excretion is dependent upon OCT2 and/or MATE1 (e.g. fampridine [also known as dalfampridine], 
metformin) (see Table 3).  
In vitro, dolutegravir inhibited the renal uptake organic anion transporters (OAT)1 and OAT3. Based 
on the lack of effect on the in vivo pharmacokinetics of the OAT substrate tenofovir, in vivo inhibition 
of OAT1 is unlikely. Inhibition of OAT3 has not been studied in vivo. Dolutegravir may increase 
plasma concentrations of medicinal products in which excretion is dependent upon OAT3.   
In vitro, abacavir demonstrated the potential to inhibit CYP1A1 and limited potential to inhibit 
metabolism mediated by CYP3A4. Abacavir was an inhibitor of MATE1; the clinical consequences 
are not known.  
In vitro, lamivudine was an inhibitor of OCT1 and OCT2; the clinical consequences are not known.  
Established and theoretical interactions with selected antiretrovirals and non-antiretroviral medicinal 
products are listed in Table 3. 
Interaction table  
Interactions between dolutegravir, abacavir, lamivudine and co-administered medical products are 
listed in Table 3 (increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔”, area under the 
concentration versus time curve as “AUC”, maximum observed concentration as “Cmax”, concentration 
at end of dosing interval as “Cτ”). The table should not be considered exhaustive but is representative 
of the classes studied.  
Table 3: 
 Drug interactions 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Etravirine without boosted protease 
inhibitors decreased plasma dolutegravir 
concentration. The recommended dose 
of dolutegravir should be adjusted for 
patients taking etravirine without 
boosted protease inhibitors.  
Children weighing at least 14 kg to less 
than 25 kg: 
Dosing recommendations are provided 
in Table 2 (see section 4.2) 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
Interaction geometric 
mean change (%)  
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Antiretroviral medicinal products 
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
Etravirine without boosted 
protease inhibitors / 
Dolutegravir 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 71% 
   Cmax ↓ 52% 
   Cτ ↓ 88% 
Lopinavir+ritonavir+etravirine/ 
Dolutegravir 
Etravirine ↔ 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 11% 
   Cmax ↑ 7% 
   Cτ ↑ 28% 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darunavir+ritonavir+etravirine/ 
Dolutegravir 
Efavirenz/Dolutegravir 
Nevirapine/Dolutegravir 
Lopinavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
Etravirine ↔ 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 25% 
   Cmax ↓ 12% 
   Cτ ↓ 36% 
Darunavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
Etravirine ↔ 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 57% 
   Cmax ↓ 39% 
   Cτ ↓ 75% 
Efavirenz ↔ (historical 
controls) 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
(Not studied, a similar 
reduction in exposure as 
observed with efavirenz is 
expected, due to 
induction) 
Rilpivirine 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 12% 
   Cmax ↑ 13% 
   Cτ ↑ 22% 
Rilpivirine ↔ 
Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
Tenofovir  
   AUC ↑ 1% 
   Cmax ↓ 3% 
   Cτ  ↓ 8% 
Tenofovir ↔ 
Emtricitabine, didanosine, 
stavudine, zidovudine. 
Interaction not studied 
Protease inhibitors 
46 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
should be adjusted when co-
administered with efavirenz.  
Children weighing at least 14 kg to less 
than 25 kg: 
Dosing recommendations are provided 
in Table 2 (see section 4.2) 
Co-administration with nevirapine may 
decrease dolutegravir plasma 
concentration due to enzyme induction 
and has not been studied. Effect of 
nevirapine on dolutegravir exposure is 
likely similar to or less than that of 
efavirenz. The recommended dose of 
dolutegravir should be adjusted when 
co-administered with nevirapine.  
Children weighing at least 14 kg to less 
than 25 kg: 
Dosing recommendations are provided 
in Table 2 (see section 4.2) 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
No dose adjustment is necessary when 
Triumeq is combined with nucleoside 
reverse transcript inhibitors. 
Triumeq is not recommended for use in 
combination with emtricitabine 
containing products, since both 
lamivudine (in Triumeq) and 
emtricitabine are cytidine analogues (i.e. 
risk for intracellular interactions, (see 
section 4.4)) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
should be adjusted when co-
administered with tipranavir/ritonavir.  
Children weighing at least 14 kg to less 
than 25 kg: 
Dosing recommendations are provided 
in Table 2 (see section 4.2) 
Fosamprenavir/ritonavir decreases 
dolutegravir concentrations, but based 
on limited data, did not result in 
decreased efficacy in Phase III studies. 
No dose adjustment is necessary.  
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
Atazanavir/Dolutegravir 
Atazanavir+ ritonavir/ 
Dolutegravir 
Tipranavir+ritonavir/ 
Dolutegravir 
Fosamprenavir+ritonavir/ 
Dolutegravir 
Lopinavir+ritonavir/  
Dolutegravir 
Lopinavir+ritonavir/ 
Abacavir 
Darunavir+ritonavir/ 
Dolutegravir 
Other antiviral agents 
Dolutegravir ↑ 
   AUC ↑ 91% 
   Cmax ↑ 50% 
   Cτ ↑ 180% 
Atazanavir ↔ (historical 
controls) 
(inhibition of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↑ 
   AUC ↑ 62% 
   Cmax ↑ 34% 
   Cτ ↑ 121% 
Atazanavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 59% 
   Cmax ↓ 47% 
   Cτ ↓ 76% 
Tipranavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir↓ 
   AUC ↓ 35% 
   Cmax ↓ 24% 
   Cτ ↓ 49% 
Fosamprenavir↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC  ↓ 4% 
   Cmax ↔ 0% 
   C24 ↓ 6% 
Lopinavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
Abacavir                          
AUC ↓ 32% 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 22%  
   Cmax ↓ 11% 
   Cτ ↓ 38% 
Darunavir ↔ 
Ritonavir ↔ 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daclatasvir/Dolutegravir 
Anti-infective products 
Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 
(Co-trimoxazole)/Abacavir 
Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 
(Co-trimoxazole)/Lamivudine 
(160mg/800mg once daily for 5 
days/300mg single dose) 
Antimycobacterials 
Rifampicin/Dolutegravir 
Rifabutin 
Anticonvulsants 
Carbamazepine/Dolutegravir 
Phenobarbital/Dolutegravir 
Phenytoin/Dolutegravir 
Oxcarbazepine/Dolutegravir 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 33%  
   Cmax ↑ 29% 
   Cτ ↑ 45% 
Daclatasvir ↔ 
Interaction not studied 
Lamivudine:  
   AUC ↑43% 
   Cmax ↑7% 
Trimethoprim:  
   AUC ↔ 
Sulfamethoxazole:  
   AUC ↔ 
(organic cation transporter 
inhibition) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 54% 
   Cmax ↓ 43% 
   Cτ ↓ 72% 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↓ 5% 
   Cmax ↑ 16% 
   Cτ ↓ 30% 
(induction of UGT1A1 
and CYP3A enzymes) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 49% 
   Cmax ↓ 33% 
   Cτ ↓ 73% 
Dolutegravir↓ 
(Not studied, decrease 
expected due to induction 
of UGT1A1 and CYP3A 
enzymes, a similar 
reduction in exposure as 
observed with 
48 
Daclatasvir did not change dolutegravir 
plasma concentration to a clinically 
relevant extent.  Dolutegravir did not 
change daclatasvir plasma concentration. 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
No Triumeq dose adjustment necessary, 
unless patient has renal impairment (See 
Section 4.2). 
The dose of dolutegravir should be 
adjusted when co-administered with 
rifampicin.  
Children weighing at least 14 kg to less 
than 25 kg: 
Dosing recommendations are provided 
in Table 2 (see section 4.2) 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
should be adjusted when co-
administered with carbamazepine.  
Children weighing at least 14 kg to less 
than 25 kg: 
Dosing recommendations are provided 
in Table 2 (see section 4.2) 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
should be adjusted when co-
administered with these metabolic 
inducers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
carbamazepine is 
expected) 
Children weighing at least 14 kg to less 
than 25 kg: 
Dosing recommendations are provided 
in Table 2 (see section 4.2) 
Antihistamines (histamine H2 receptor antagonists) 
Ranitidine 
Interaction not studied. 
No dose adjustment necessary. 
No dose adjustment necessary. 
Concomitant use of Triumeq with 
cladribine is not recommended (see 
section 4.4). 
Methadone dose adjustment likely not 
needed in majority of patients; 
occasionally methadone re-titration may 
be required. 
Insufficient data to recommend dose 
adjustment. 
No dose adjustment necessary. 
Cimetidine 
Cytotoxics 
Cladribine/Lamivudine 
Opioids 
Methadone/Abacavir 
(40 to 90mg once daily for 14 
days/600mg single dose, then 
600mg twice daily for 14 days) 
Retinoids 
Retinoid compounds  
(e.g. Isotretinoin) 
Miscellaneous 
Alcohol 
Ethanol/Dolutegravir 
Ethanol/Lamivudine 
Clinically significant 
interaction unlikely. 
Interaction not studied. 
Clinically significant 
interaction unlikely. 
Interaction not studied.  
In vitro lamivudine 
inhibits the intracellular 
phosphorylation of 
cladribine leading to a 
potential risk of cladribine 
loss of efficacy in case of 
combination in the 
clinical setting. Some 
clinical findings also 
support a possible 
interaction between 
lamivudine and cladribine 
Abacavir:   
   AUC ↔ 
   Cmax ↓35% 
Methadone:  
   CL/F ↑22% 
Interaction not studied 
Possible interaction given 
common pathway of 
elimination via alcohol 
dehydrogenase (abacavir-
component). 
Interaction not studied 
(Inhibition of alcohol 
dehydrogenase) 
Ethanol/Abacavir 
(0.7 g/kg single dose/600mg 
single dose) 
Abacavir:  
   AUC ↑ 41% 
Ethanol:  
   AUC ↔ 
Sorbitol 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sorbitol solution (3.2 g, 10.2 g, 
13.4 g)/Lamivudine 
Single dose lamivudine 
oral solution 300 mg  
Lamivudine: 
AUC ↓ 14%; 32%; 36%  
Cmax ↓ 28%; 52%, 55%. 
Potassium channel blockers 
Fampridine (also known as 
dalfampridine)/Dolutegravir 
Fampridine ↑ 
Antacids and supplements 
Magnesium/ 
aluminium-containing 
antacids/Dolutegravir 
Calcium 
supplements/Dolutegravir 
Iron supplements/Dolutegravir 
Multivitamins (containing 
calcium, iron and magnesium) 
/Dolutegravir 
Corticosteroids 
Prednisone 
Antidiabetics 
Metformin/Dolutegravir 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
AUC ↓ 74%  
Cmax ↓ 72% 
(Complex binding to 
polyvalent ions) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 39%  
   Cmax ↓ 37% 
   C24 ↓ 39% 
(Complex binding to 
polyvalent ions) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 54%  
   Cmax ↓ 57% 
   C24 ↓ 56% 
(Complex binding to 
polyvalent ions) 
Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 33%  
   Cmax ↓ 35% 
   C24 ↓ 32% 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 11% 
   Cmax ↑ 6% 
   Cτ ↑ 17% 
When possible, avoid chronic 
coadministration of Triumeq with 
medicinal products containing sorbitol 
or other osmotic acting poly-alcohols or 
monosaccharide alcohols (eg: xylitol, 
mannitol, lactitol, maltitol). Consider 
more frequent monitoring of HIV-1 viral 
load when chronic coadministration 
cannot be avoided. 
Co-administration of dolutegravir has 
the potential to cause seizures due to 
increased fampridine plasma 
concentration via inhibition of OCT2 
transporter; co-administration has not 
been studied. Fampridine co-
administration with Triumeq is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Magnesium/ aluminium-containing 
antacids should be taken well separated 
in time from the administration of 
Triumeq (minimum 2 hours after or 6 
hours before the intake of Triumeq). 
- When taken with food, Triumeq and 
supplements or multivitamins containing 
calcium, iron or magnesium can be taken 
at the same time.  
- If Triumeq is taken in a fasted state, 
such supplements should be taken a 
minimum 2 hours after or 6 hours before 
the intake of Triumeq. 
The stated reductions in dolutegravir 
exposure were observed with the intake 
of dolutegravir and these supplements 
during fasted conditions. In fed state, the 
changes in exposure following intake 
together with calcium or iron 
supplements were modified by the food 
effect, resulting in an exposure similar to 
that obtained with dolutegravir 
administered in the fasted state. 
No dose adjustment is necessary. 
Metformin ↑ 
Dolutegravir ↔ 
When co-administered 
with dolutegravir 50mg 
QD: 
A dose adjustment of metformin should 
be considered when starting and 
stopping coadministration of 
dolutegravir with metformin, to maintain 
glycaemic control. In patients with 
50 
 
 
Herbal products 
St. John’s wort/Dolutegravir 
Oral contraceptives 
Ethinyl estradiol (EE) and 
Norgestromin 
(NGMN)/Dolutegravir 
Antihypertensive 
Riociguat/Abacavir 
moderate renal impairment a dose 
adjustment of metformin should be 
considered when coadministered with 
dolutegravir, because of the increased 
risk for lactic acidosis in patients with 
moderate renal impairment due to 
increased metformin concentration 
(section 4.4). 
The recommended dose of dolutegravir 
should be adjusted when co-
administered with St. John’s wort.  
Children weighing at least 14 kg to less 
than 25 kg: 
Dosing recommendations are provided 
in Table 2 (see section 4.2) 
Dolutegravir had no Pharmacodynamic 
effect on Luteinizing Hormone (LH), 
Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) and 
progesterone. No dose adjustment of 
oral contraceptives is necessary when 
co-administered with Triumeq. 
Riociguat dose may need to be reduced, 
consult the riociguat prescribing 
information for dosing 
recommendations. 
Metformin 
   AUC ↑ 79%  
   Cmax ↑ 66% 
When co-administered 
with dolutegravir 50mg 
BID:  
   Metformin 
   AUC ↑ 145 %  
   Cmax ↑ 111% 
Dolutegravir↓ 
(Not studied, decrease 
expected due to induction 
of UGT1A1 and CYP3A 
enzymes, a similar 
reduction in exposure as 
observed with 
carbamazepine is 
expected) 
Effect of dolutegravir: 
EE ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 3%  
   Cmax ↓ 1% 
Effect of dolutegravir: 
NGMN ↔ 
   AUC ↓ 2%  
   Cmax ↓ 11% 
Riociguat ↑ 
In vitro, abacavir inhibits 
CYP1A1. Concomitant 
administration of a single 
dose of riociguat (0.5 mg) 
to HIV patients receiving 
Triumeq led to an 
approximately three-fold 
higher riociguat AUC(0-∞) 
when compared to 
historical riociguat 
AUC(0-∞) reported in 
healthy subjects. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should be counselled about the potential risk of neural tube defects 
with dolutegravir (a component of Triumeq, see below), including consideration of effective 
contraceptive measures. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a woman plans pregnancy, the benefits and the risks of continuing treatment with Triumeq should 
be discussed with the patient. 
Pregnancy  
Human experience from a birth outcome surveillance study in Botswana shows a small increase of 
neural tube defects; 7 cases in 3,591 deliveries (0.19%; 95% CI 0.09%, 0.40%) to mothers taking 
dolutegravir-containing regimens at the time of conception compared to 21 cases in 19,361 deliveries 
(0.11%: 95% CI 0.07%, 0.17%) to women exposed to non-dolutegravir regimens at the time of 
conception. 
The incidence of neural tube defects in the general population ranges from 0.5-1 case per 1,000 live 
births (0.05-0.1%). Most neural tube defects occur within the first 4 weeks of embryonic development 
after conception (approximately 6 weeks after the last menstrual period). If a pregnancy is confirmed 
in the first trimester while on Triumeq, the benefits and risks of continuing Triumeq versus switching 
to another antiretroviral regimen should be discussed with the patient taking the gestational age and 
the critical time period of neural tube defect development into account. 
Data analysed from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry do not indicate an increased risk of major 
birth defects in over 600 women exposed to dolutegravir during pregnancy but are currently 
insufficient to address the risk of neural tube defects. 
In animal reproductive toxicology studies with dolutegravir, no adverse development outcomes, 
including neural tube defects, were identified (see section 5.3).  
More than 1000 outcomes from exposure to dolutegravir during second and third trimester pregnancy 
indicate no evidence of increased risk of foetal/neonatal toxicity. Triumeq may be used during the 
second and third trimester of pregnancy when the expected benefit justifies the potential risk to the 
foetus. 
Dolutegravir crosses the placenta in humans. In pregnant women living with HIV, the median foetal 
umbilical cord concentration of dolutegravir was approximately 1.3-fold greater compared with the 
maternal peripheral plasma concentration. 
There is insufficient information on the effects of dolutegravir on neonates. 
Concerning lamivudine, a large amount of data (more than 5200 outcomes from first trimester) 
indicates no malformative toxicity. A moderate amount of data (more than 1200 outcomes from first 
trimester) indicates no malformative toxicity for abacavir.  
Abacavir and lamivudine may inhibit cellular DNA replication and abacavir has been shown to be 
carcinogenic in animal models (see section 5.3). The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. 
Mitochondrial dysfunction  
Nucleoside and nucleotide analogues have been demonstrated in vitro and in vivo to cause a variable 
degree of mitochondrial damage. There have been reports of mitochondrial dysfunction in HIV-
negative infants exposed in utero and/or post-natally to nucleoside analogues (see section 4.4). 
Breast-feeding  
Dolutegravir is excreted in human milk in small amounts (a median dolutegravir breast milk to 
maternal plasma ratio of 0.033 has been shown). There is insufficient information on the effects of 
dolutegravir in neonates/infants.  
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abacavir and its metabolites are excreted into the milk of lactating rats. Abacavir is also excreted into 
human milk. 
Based on more than 200 mother/child pairs treated for HIV, serum concentrations of lamivudine in 
breastfed infants of mothers treated for HIV are very low (< 4% of maternal serum concentrations) and 
progressively decrease to undetectable levels when breastfed infants reach 24 weeks of age. There are 
no data available on the safety of abacavir and lamivudine when administered to babies less than three 
months old. 
It is recommended that women living with HIV do not breast-feed their infants in order to avoid 
transmission of HIV. 
Fertility  
There are no data on the effects of dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine on human male or female 
fertility. Animal studies indicate no effects of dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine on male or female 
fertility (see section 5.3).   
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Triumeq has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be 
informed that dizziness has been reported during treatment with dolutegravir.  
4.8    Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile  
The most frequently reported adverse reactions related to dolutegravir and abacavir/lamivudine were 
nausea (12%), insomnia (7%), dizziness (6%) and headache (6%). 
Many of the adverse reactions listed in the table below occur commonly (nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
fever, lethargy, rash) in patients with abacavir hypersensitivity. Therefore, patients with any of these 
symptoms should be carefully evaluated for the presence of this hypersensitivity (see section 4.4). 
Very rarely cases of erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis 
have been reported where abacavir hypersensitivity could not be ruled out. In such cases medicinal 
products containing abacavir should be permanently discontinued. 
The most severe adverse reaction  related to the treatment with dolutegravir and abacavir/lamivudine, 
seen in individual patients, was a hypersensitivity reaction that included rash and severe liver effects 
(see section 4.4 and Description of selected adverse reactions in this section).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions with the components of Triumeq from clinical study and post-marketing 
experience are listed in Table 4 by body system, organ class and absolute frequency. Frequencies are 
defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), 
rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000). 
Table 4: Tabulated list of adverse reactions associated with the combination of dolutegravir + 
abacavir/lamivudine in an analysis of pooled data from: Phase IIb to Phase IIIb clinical studies or post-
marketing experience; and adverse reactions to treatment with dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine 
from clinical studies and post-marketing experience when used with other antiretrovirals 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Blood and lymphatic systems disorders: 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon: 
Very rare: 
Neutropenia1, anaemia1, thrombocytopenia1 
pure red cell aplasia1 
Immune system disorders: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
hypersensitivity (see section 4.4) 
immune reconstitution syndrome (see section 4.4) 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Very rare: 
anorexia1 
hypertriglyceridaemia, hyperglycaemia 
lactic acidosis1 
Psychiatric disorders:  
Very common: 
insomnia 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
abnormal dreams, depression, anxiety1, nightmare, sleep 
disorder 
suicidal ideation or suicide attempt (particularly in patients 
with a pre-existing history of depression or psychiatric 
illness), panic attack 
Rare:  
completed suicide (particularly in patients with a pre-existing 
history of depression or psychiatric illness) 
Nervous system disorders:  
Very common: 
headache 
Common: 
Very rare: 
dizziness, somnolence, lethargy1 
peripheral neuropathy1, paraesthesia1 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: 
Common: 
cough1, nasal symptoms1 
Gastrointestinal disorders:  
Very common: 
nausea, diarrhoea 
Common: 
vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain, abdominal pain upper, 
abdominal distension, abdominal discomfort, gastro-
oesophageal reflux disease, dyspepsia 
Rare: 
pancreatitis1 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Common: 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and/or aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST) elevations 
Uncommon: 
hepatitis 
Rare: 
acute hepatic failure1, increased bilirubin2 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders:  
Common: 
Very rare: 
rash, pruritus, alopecia1 
erythema multiform1, Stevens-Johnson syndrome1, toxic 
epidermal necrolysis1 
54 
 
 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: 
Common: 
Rare: 
Arthralgia1, muscle disorders1(including myalgia1) 
rhabdomyolysis1 
General disorders and administration site conditions:  
Very common: 
fatigue 
Common: 
Investigations: 
Common: 
Rare: 
asthenia, fever1, malaise1 
CPK elevations, weight increased 
amylase elevations1 
1This adverse reaction was identified from clinical studies or post-marketing experience 
for dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine when used with other antiretrovirals or post-
marketing experience with Triumeq. 
2In combination with increased transaminases. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Both abacavir and dolutegravir are associated with a risk for hypersensitivity reactions (HSR), which 
were observed more commonly with abacavir. Hypersensitivity reaction observed for each of these 
medicinal products (described below) share some common features such as fever and/or rash with 
other symptoms indicating multi-organ involvement. Time to onset was typically 10-14 days for both 
abacavir and dolutegravir-associated reactions, although reactions to abacavir may occur at any time 
during therapy. Treatment with Triumeq must be stopped without delay if HSR cannot be ruled out on 
clinical grounds, and therapy with Triumeq or other abacavir or dolutegravir containing products must 
never be re-initiated. Please refer to section 4.4 for further details on patient management in the event 
of a suspected HSR to Triumeq. 
Dolutegravir hypersensitivity 
Symptoms have included rash, constitutional findings, and sometimes, organ dysfunction, including 
severe liver reactions. 
Abacavir hypersensitivity 
The signs and symptoms of this HSR are listed below. These have been identified either from clinical 
studies or post marketing surveillance. Those reported in at least 10% of patients with a 
hypersensitivity reaction are in bold text. 
Almost all patients developing hypersensitivity reactions will have fever and/or rash (usually 
maculopapular or urticarial) as part of the syndrome, however reactions have occurred without rash or 
fever. Other key symptoms include gastrointestinal, respiratory or constitutional symptoms such as 
lethargy and malaise.  
Skin 
Rash (usually maculopapular or urticarial) 
Gastrointestinal tract 
Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, mouth ulceration 
Respiratory tract 
Miscellaneous 
Dyspnoea, cough, sore throat, adult respiratory distress syndrome, 
respiratory failure 
Fever, lethargy, malaise, oedema, lymphadenopathy, hypotension, 
conjunctivitis, anaphylaxis 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neurological/Psychiatry 
Headache, paraesthesia 
Haematological 
Lymphopenia 
Liver/pancreas 
Elevated liver function tests, hepatitis, hepatic failure 
Musculoskeletal 
Myalgia, rarely myolysis, arthralgia, elevated creatine phosphokinase 
Urology 
Elevated creatinine, renal failure 
Symptoms related to this HSR worsen with continued therapy and can be life-threatening and in rare 
instance, have been fatal. 
Restarting abacavir following an abacavir HSR results in a prompt return of symptoms within hours. 
This recurrence of the HSR is usually more severe than on initial presentation, and may include life-
threatening hypotension and death. Similar reactions have also occurred infrequently after restarting 
abacavir in patients who had only one of the key symptoms of hypersensitivity (see above) prior to 
stopping abacavir; and on very rare occasions have also been seen in patients who have restarted 
therapy with no preceding symptoms of a HSR (i.e., patients previously considered to be abacavir 
tolerant). 
Metabolic parameters 
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see section 
4.4) 
Osteonecrosis 
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to CART. The frequency of this is unknown (see 
section 4.4). 
Immune reactivation syndrome  
In  HIV-infected  patients  with  severe  immune  deficiency  at  the  time  of  initiation  of  CART,  an 
inflammatory  reaction  to  asymptomatic  or  residual  opportunistic  infections  may  arise.  Autoimmune 
disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported; however, the 
reported  time  to  onset  is  more  variable  and  these  events  can  occur  many  months  after  initiation  of 
treatment (see section 4.4). 
Changes in laboratory chemistries 
Increases in serum creatinine occurred within the first week of treatment with dolutegravir and 
remained stable through 96 weeks. In the SINGLE study a mean change from baseline of 12.6 µmol/L 
was observed after 96 weeks of treatment. These changes are not considered to be clinically relevant 
since they do not reflect a change in glomerular filtration rate. 
Asymptomatic creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevations mainly in association with exercise have also 
been reported with dolutegravir therapy. 
Co-infection with Hepatitis B or C 
In dolutegravir Phase III studies patients with hepatitis B and/or C co-infection were permitted to enrol 
provided that baseline liver chemistry tests did not exceed 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). 
Overall, the safety profile in patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or C was similar to that observed 
in patients without hepatitis B or C co-infection, although the rates of AST and ALT abnormalities 
were higher in the subgroup with hepatitis B and/or C co-infection for all treatment groups. 
Paediatric population 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no clinical study data on the effects of Triumeq in the paediatric population. Individual 
components have been investigated in infants, children and adolescents. 
Based on available data with dolutegravir used in combination with other antiretroviral agents to treat 
infants, children and adolescents, there were no additional safety issues identified beyond those 
observed in the adult population. 
The individual preparations of abacavir and lamivudine have been investigated separately, and as a 
dual nucleoside backbone, in combination antiretroviral therapy to treat ART- naive and ART- 
experienced HIV- infected paediatric patients (data available on the use of abacavir and lamivudine in 
infants less than three months are limited). No additional types of adverse reactions have been 
observed beyond those characterised for the adult population. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
No specific symptoms or signs have been identified following acute overdose with dolutegravir, 
abacavir or lamivudine, apart from those listed as adverse reactions. 
Further management should be as clinically indicated or as recommended by the national poisons 
centre, where available.  There is no specific treatment for an overdose of Triumeq. If overdose 
occurs, the patient should be treated supportively with appropriate monitoring, as necessary. Since 
lamivudine is dialysable, continuous haemodialysis could be used in the treatment of overdose, 
although this has not been studied. It is not known whether abacavir can be removed by peritoneal 
dialysis or haemodialysis. As dolutegravir is highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that it will 
be significantly removed by dialysis. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, antivirals for treatment of HIV infections, 
combinations. ATC code: J05AR13 
Mechanism of action 
Dolutegravir inhibits HIV integrase by binding to the integrase active site and blocking the strand 
transfer step of retroviral Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) integration which is essential for the HIV 
replication cycle. 
Abacavir and lamivudine are potent selective inhibitors of HIV-1 and HIV-2. Both abacavir and 
lamivudine are metabolised sequentially by intracellular kinases to the respective 5'-triphosphates (TP) 
which are the active moieties with extended intracellular half-lives supporting once daily dosing (see 
section 5.2). Lamivudine-TP (an analogue for cytidine) and carbovir-TP (the active triphosphate form 
of abacavir, an analogue for guanosine) are substrates for and competitive inhibitors of HIV reverse 
transcriptase (RT). However, their main antiviral activity is through incorporation of the 
monophosphate form into the viral DNA chain, resulting in chain termination. Abacavir and 
lamivudine triphosphates show significantly less affinity for host cell DNA polymerases. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Antiviral activity in vitro  
Dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine have been shown to inhibit replication of lab-strains and 
clinical isolates of HIV in a number of cell types, including transformed T cell lines, 
monocyte/macrophage derived lines and primary cultures of activated peripheral blood mononuclear 
cells (PMBCs) and monocyte/macrophages.  The concentration of active substance necessary to effect 
viral replication by 50% (IC50 - half maximal inhibitory concentration) varied according to virus and 
host cell type. 
The IC50 for dolutegravir in various lab-strains using PBMC was 0.5 nM, and when using MT-4 cells 
it ranged from 0.7-2 nM. Similar IC50s were seen for clinical isolates without any major difference 
between subtypes; in a panel of 24 HIV-1 isolates of clades A, B, C, D, E, F and G and group O the 
mean IC50 value was 0.2 nM (range 0.02-2.14). The mean IC50 for 3 HIV-2 isolates was 0.18 nM 
(range 0.09-0.61). 
The mean IC50 for abacavir against lab-strains of HIV-1IIIB and HIV-1HXB2 ranged from 1.4 to 
5.8 µM. The median or mean IC50 values for lamivudine against lab-strains of HIV-1 ranged from 
0.007 to 2.3 µM. The mean IC50 against lab-strains of HIV-2 (LAV2 and EHO) ranged from 1.57 to 
7.5 µM for abacavir and from 0.16 to 0.51 µM for lamivudine.  
The IC50 values of abacavir against HIV-1 Group M subtypes (A-G) ranged from 0.002 to 1.179 µM, 
against Group O from 0.022 to 1.21 µM, and against HIV-2 isolates, from 0.024 to 0.49 µM. For 
lamivudine, the IC50 values against HIV-1 subtypes (A-G) ranged from 0.001 to 0.170 µM, against 
Group O from 0.030 to 0.160 µM and against HIV-2 isolates from 0.002 to 0.120 µM in peripheral 
blood mononuclear cells. 
HIV-1 isolates (CRF01_AE, n=12; CRF02_AG, n=12; and Subtype C or CRF_AC, n=13) from 37 
untreated patients in Africa and Asia were susceptible to abacavir (IC50 fold changes < 2.5), and 
lamivudine (IC50 fold changes < 3.0), except for two CRF02_AG isolates with fold changes of 2.9 and 
3.4 for abacavir.  Group O isolates from antiviral naïve patients tested for lamivudine activity were 
highly sensitive. 
The combination of abacavir and lamivudine has demonstrated antiviral activity in cell culture against 
non-subtype B isolates and HIV-2 isolates with equivalent antiviral activity as for subtype B isolates.  
Antiviral activity in combination with other antiviral agents  
No antagonistic effects in vitro were seen with dolutegravir and other antiretrovirals (tested agents: 
stavudine, abacavir, efavirenz, nevirapine, lopinavir, amprenavir, enfuvirtide, maraviroc, adefovir and 
raltegravir).  In addition, ribavirin had no apparent effect on dolutegravir activity.   
The antiviral activity of abacavir in cell culture was not antagonized when combined with the 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) didanosine, emtricitabine, lamivudine, stavudine, 
tenofovir, zalcitabine or zidovudine, the non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) 
nevirapine, or the protease inhibitor (PI) amprenavir.  
No antagonistic effects in vitro were seen with lamivudine and other antiretrovirals (tested agents: 
abacavir, didanosine, nevirapine, zalcitabine, and zidovudine). 
Effect of human serum  
In 100% human serum, the mean fold shift for dolutegravir activity was 75-fold, resulting in protein 
adjusted IC90 of 0.064 ug/mL. Plasma protein binding studies in vitro indicate that abacavir binds only 
low to moderately (~49%) to human plasma proteins at therapeutic concentrations.  Lamivudine 
exhibits linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range and displays low plasma protein 
binding (less than 36%). 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resistance  
Resistance in vitro: (dolutegravir)  
Serial passage is used to study resistance evolution in vitro. When using the lab-strain HIVIII during 
passage over 112 days, mutations selected appeared slowly, with substitutions at positions S153Y and 
F. These mutations were not selected in patients treated with dolutegravir in the clinical studies.  Using 
strain NL432 mutations E92Q (fold change 3) and G193E (fold change 3) were selected. These 
mutations have been selected in patients with pre-existing raltegravir resistance and who were then 
treated with dolutegravir (listed as secondary mutations for dolutegravir).  
In further selection experiments using clinical isolates of subtype B, mutation R263K was seen in all 
five isolates (after 20 weeks and onwards). In subtype C (n=2) and A/G (n=2) isolates the integrase 
substitution R263K was selected in one isolate, and G118R in two isolates.  R263K was reported from 
two individual patients with subtype B and subtype C in the clinical program for ART experienced, 
INI naive subjects, but without effects on dolutegravir susceptibility in vitro. G118R lowers the 
susceptibility to dolutegravir in site directed mutants (fold change 10), but was not detected in patients 
receiving dolutegravir in the Phase III program.   
Primary mutations for raltegravir/elvitegravir (Q148H/R/K, N155H, Y143R/H/C, E92Q, T66I) do not 
affect the in vitro susceptibility of dolutegravir as single mutations. When mutations listed as 
secondary integrase inhibitor associated mutations (for raltegravir/elvitegravir) are added to primary 
mutations (excluding at Q148) in experiments with site directed mutants, dolutegravir susceptibility 
remains at or near wildtype level.  In the case of the Q148-mutation viruses, increasing dolutegravir 
fold change is seen as the number of secondary mutations increase. The effect of the Q148-based 
mutations (H/R/K) was also consistent with in vitro passage experiments with site directed mutants.  
In serial passage with strain NL432-based site directed mutants at N155H or E92Q, no further 
selection of resistance was seen (fold change unchanged around 1). In contrast, starting passage with 
mutants with mutation Q148H (fold change 1), a variety of raltegravir associated secondary mutations 
accumulated with a consequent increase of fold change to values >10.  
A clinically relevant phenotypic cut-off value (fold change vs wild type virus) has not been 
determined; genotypic resistance was a better predictor for outcome. 
Seven hundred and five raltegravir resistant isolates from raltegravir experienced patients were 
analyzed for susceptibility to dolutegravir.  Dolutegravir has a <10-fold change against 94% of the 705 
clinical isolates. 
Resistance in vivo: (dolutegravir) 
In previously untreated patients receiving dolutegravir + 2 NRTIs in Phase IIb and Phase III, no 
development of resistance to the integrase class, or to the NRTI class was seen (n=876, follow-up of 
48-96 weeks).  
In patients with prior failed therapies, but naïve to the integrase class (SAILING study), integrase 
inhibitor substitutions were observed in 4/354 patients (follow-up 48 weeks) treated with dolutegravir, 
which was given in combination with an investigator selected background regimen (BR). Of these 
four, two subjects had a unique R263K integrase substitution, with a maximum fold change of 1.93, 
one subject had a polymorphic V151V/I integrase substitution, with maximum fold change of 0.92, 
and one subject had pre-existing integrase mutations and is assumed to have been integrase 
experienced or infected with integrase resistant virus by transmission. The R263K mutation was also 
selected in vitro (see above). 
Resistance in vitro and in vivo: (abacavir and lamivudine) 
Abacavir-resistant isolates of HIV-1 have been selected in vitro and in vivo and are associated with 
specific genotypic changes in the RT codon region (codons M184V, K65R, L74V and Y115F). During 
in vitro abacavir selection the M184V mutation occurred first and resulted in about a 2-fold increase in 
IC50, below the abacavir clinical cut-off of 4.5-fold change.  Continued passage in increasing 
concentrations of drug resulted in selection for double RT mutants 65R/184V and 74V/184V or triple 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RT mutant 74V/115Y/184V. Two mutations conferred a 7 to 8-fold change in abacavir susceptibility 
and combinations of three mutations were required to confer more than an 8-fold change in 
susceptibility. 
HIV-1 resistance to lamivudine involves the development of a M184I or M184V amino acid change 
close to the active site of the viral RT. This variant arises both in vitro and in HIV-1 infected patients 
treated with lamivudine-containing antiretroviral therapy.  M184V mutants display greatly reduced 
susceptibility to lamivudine and show diminished viral replicative capacity in vitro. M184V is 
associated with about a 2-fold increase in abacavir resistance but does not confer clinical resistance for 
abacavir. 
Isolates resistant to abacavir may also show reduced sensitivity to lamivudine.  The combination of 
abacavir/lamivudine has demonstrated decreased susceptibility to viruses with the substitutions K65R 
with or without the M184V/I substitution, and to viruses with L74V plus the M184V/I substitution. 
Cross-resistance between dolutegravir or abacavir or lamivudine and antiretrovirals from other classes 
e.g. PIs or NNRTIs is unlikely.  
Effects on electrocardiogram  
No relevant effects were seen on the QTc interval, with doses of dolutegravir exceeding the clinical 
dose by approximately 3-fold.  Similar studies were not conducted with either abacavir or lamivudine. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of Triumeq in HIV-infected, therapy naive subjects is based on the analyses of data from 
a number of trials. The analyses included two randomised, international, double-blind, active-
controlled trials, SINGLE (ING114467) and SPRING-2 (ING113086), the international, open-label, 
active-controlled trial FLAMINGO (ING114915), and the randomised, open-label, active-controlled, 
multicentre, non-inferiority study ARIA (ING117172).  
The STRIIVING study (201147), was a randomised, open-label, active-controlled, multicentre, non-
inferiority switch study in virologically suppressed subjects with no documented history of resistance 
to any class.  
In SINGLE, 833 patients were treated with dolutegravir 50 mg film-coated tablets once daily plus 
fixed-dose abacavir-lamivudine (DTG + ABC/3TC) or fixed-dose efavirenz-tenofovir-emtricitabine 
(EFV/TDF/FTC). At baseline, median patient age was 35 years, 16% were female, 32% non-white, 
7% had hepatitis C co-infection and 4% were CDC Class C, these characteristics were similar between 
treatment groups. Week 48 outcomes (including outcomes by key baseline covariates) are shown in 
Table 5. 
Table 5:   Virologic Outcomes of Randomised Treatment of SINGLE at 48 Weeks (Snapshot  
algorithm) 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
  Treatment Difference* 
Virologic non response†  
No virologic data at Weeks 
48 window  
Reasons 
48 weeks 
DTG 50 mg + ABC/3TC 
once daily 
N=414 
88% 
EFV/TDF/FTC 
once daily 
N=419 
81% 
7.4% (95% CI: 2.5%, 12.3%) 
6% 
13% 
5% 
7% 
60 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinued study/study 
medicinal product due to 
adverse event or death‡  
Discontinued study/study 
medicinal product for other 
reasons§ 
Missing data during window 
but on study 
2% 
5% 
0 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL by baseline covariates 
10% 
3% 
<1% 
Baseline Plasma Viral 
Load (copies/mL) 
  ≤100,000  
  >100,000  
Baseline CD4+ (cells/ mm3) 
  <200  
  200 to <350  
  ≥350 
Gender 
  Male  
  Female  
Race  
  White  
  African-American/African   
  Heritage/Other 
Age (years) 
  <50 
  ≥50 
n / N (%) 
253 / 280 (90%) 
111 / 134 (83%) 
45 / 57 (79%) 
143 / 163 (88%) 
176 / 194 (91%) 
307 / 347 (88%) 
57 / 67 (85%) 
255 / 284 (90%) 
109 / 130 (84%) 
319 / 361 (88%) 
45 / 53 (85%) 
n / N (%) 
238 / 288 (83%) 
100 / 131 (76%) 
48 / 62 (77%) 
126 / 159 (79%) 
164 / 198 (83%) 
291 / 356 (82%) 
47 / 63 (75%) 
238 /285 (84%) 
99 / 133 (74%) 
302 / 375 (81%) 
36 / 44 (82%) 
* Adjusted for baseline stratification factors. 
† Includes subjects who discontinued prior to Week 48 for lack or loss of efficacy and subjects 
who are ≥50 copies in the 48 week window.  
‡ Includes subjects who discontinued due to an adverse event or death at any time point from  
Day 1 through the Week 48 analysis window if this resulted in no virologic data on treatment 
during the analysis window.  
§ Includes reasons such as withdrew consent, loss to follow-up, moved, protocol deviation.  
Notes: ABC/3TC = abacavir 600 mg, lamivudine 300 mg in the form of Kivexa/Epzicom fixed 
dose combination (FDC) 
EFV/TDF/FTC = efavirenz 600 mg, tenofovir disoproxil 245 mg, emtricitabine 200 mg in the 
form of Atripla FDC. 
In the primary 48 weeks analysis, the proportion of patients with virologic suppression in the 
dolutegravir + ABC/3TC arm, was superior to the EFV/TDF/FTC arm, p=0.003, the same treatment 
difference was observed in subjects defined by baseline HIV RNA level (< or > 100,000 copies/mL). 
The median time to viral suppression was shorter with ABC/3TC + DTG (28 vs 84 days, p<0.0001). 
The adjusted mean change in CD4+ T cell count from baseline were 267 cells versus 208 cells/mm3, 
respectively (p<0.001). Both the time to viral suppression and change from baseline analyses were 
pre-specified and adjusted for multiplicity. At 96 weeks, the response was 80% vs 72%, respectively. 
The difference in the endpoint remained statistically significant (p=0.006).  The statistically higher 
responses on DTG+ABC/3TC were driven by a higher rate of withdrawals due to AEs in the 
EFV/TDF/FTC arm, irrespective of viral load strata. Overall treatment differences at Week 96 are 
applicable to patients with high and low Baseline viral loads. At 144 weeks in the open-label phase of 
SINGLE, virologic suppression was maintained, the DTG +ABC/3TC arm (71%) was superior to the 
EFV/TDF/FTC arm (63%), treatment difference was 8.3% (2.0, 14.6). 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In SPRING-2, 822 patients were treated with either dolutegravir 50 mg film-coated tablets once daily 
or raltegravir 400 mg twice daily (blinded), both with fixed-dose ABC/3TC (around 40%) or 
TDF/FTC (around 60%), given open label. Baseline demographics and outcomes are summarised in 
Table 6.  Dolutegravir was non-inferior to raltegravir, including within the subset of patients with the 
abacavir/lamivudine background regimen.  
Table 6:  Demographics and virologic outcomes of randomised treatment of SPRING-2 (snapshot 
algorithm) 
Demographics 
     Median Age (years) 
     Female 
    Non-white 
    Hepatitis B and/or C 
    CDC class C 
    ABC/3TC backbone 
Week 48 efficacy results 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
Treatment difference* 
     Virologic non response†  
     No virologic data at Weeks 48 window  
         Reasons 
Discontinued study/study medicinal product due to adverse 
event or death‡  
Discontinued study/study medicinal product for other 
reasons§ 
DTG 50 mg 
once daily 
+ 2 NRTI  
N=411 
RAL 400mg 
 twice daily 
+ 2 NRTI 
N=411 
37 
15% 
16% 
13% 
2% 
41% 
88% 
35 
14% 
14% 
11% 
2% 
40% 
85% 
2.5% (95% CI: -2.2%, 7.1%) 
5% 
7% 
2% 
5% 
8% 
7% 
1% 
6% 
86% 
87% 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL for those on ABC/3TC 
Week 96 efficacy results 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
Treatment difference* 
  HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL for those on ABC/3TC 
* Adjusted for baseline stratification factors. 
† Includes subjects who discontinued prior to Week 48 for lack or loss of efficacy and subjects who 
are ≥50 copies in the 48 week window.  
‡ Includes subjects who discontinued due to an adverse event or death at any time point from Day 1 
through the Week 48 analysis window if this resulted in no virologic data on treatment during the 
analysis window.  
§ Includes reasons such as protocol deviation, lost to follow up, and withdrew consent.  
Notes: DTG = dolutegravir, RAL = raltegravir. 
4.5% (95% CI: -1.1%, 10.0%) 
76% 
76% 
81% 
74% 
In FLAMINGO, 485 patients were treated with dolutegravir 50 mg film-coated tablets once daily or 
darunavir/ritonavir (DRV/r) 800 mg/100 mg once daily, both with ABC/3TC (around 33%) or 
TDF/FTC (around 67%). All treatments were given open-label.  Main demographics and outcomes are 
summarised in Table 7.  
Table 7:  Demographics and Week 48 virologic outcomes of randomised treatment of FLAMINGO 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(snapshot algorithm)  
Demographics 
     Median Age (years) 
     Female  
     Non-white  
     Hepatitis B and/or C 
     CDC class C  
     ABC/3TC backbone  
Week 48 Efficacy Results 
HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
Treatment Difference* 
      Virologic non response†  
      No virologic data at Weeks 48 window  
Reasons 
Discontinued study/study medicinal product due to adverse 
event or death‡  
Discontinued study/study medicinal product for other 
reasons§ 
Missing data during window but on study 
DTG 50 mg  
once daily 
 + 2 NRTI 
N=242 
DRV+RTV 
800mg + 100mg 
once daily 
+2 NRTI 
N=242 
34 
13% 
28% 
11% 
4% 
33% 
90% 
34 
17% 
27% 
8% 
2% 
33% 
83% 
7.1% (95% CI: 0.9%, 13.2%) 
6% 
4% 
1% 
2% 
7% 
10% 
4% 
5% 
<1% 
90% 
28 days 
2% 
85% 
85 days 
HIV-1 RNA <50copies/mL for those on ABC/3TC 
Median time to viral suppression** 
* Adjusted for baseline stratification factors, p=0.025. 
† Includes subjects who discontinued prior to Week 48 for lack or loss of efficacy and subjects who are 
≥50 copies in the 48 week window.  
‡ Includes subjects who discontinued due to an adverse event or death at any time point from Day 1 
through the Week 48 analysis window if this resulted in no virologic data on treatment during the 
analysis window.  
§ Includes reasons such as withdrew consent, loss to follow-up, protocol deviation. 
** p<0.001. 
Notes: DRV+RTV = darunavir + ritonavir, DTG = dolutegravir. 
At 96 weeks, virologic suppression in the dolutegravir group (80%) was superior to the DRV/r group 
(68%), (adjusted treatment difference [DTG-(DRV+RTV)]: 12.4%; 95% CI: [4.7, 20.2]). Response 
rates at 96 weeks were 82% for DTG+ABC/3TC and 75% for DRV/r+ABC/3TC. 
In ARIA (ING117172), a randomised, open-label, active-controlled, multicenter, parallel group, non-
inferiority study; 499 HIV-1 infected ART naïve adult women were randomised 1:1 to receive either; 
DTG/ABC/3TC FDC film-coated tablets 50 mg/600 mg/300 mg; or atazanavir 300 mg plus ritonavir 
100 mg plus tenofovir disproxil / emtricitabine 245 mg/200 mg (ATV+RTV+TDF/FTC FDC), all 
administered once daily.  
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Demographics and Week 48 virologic outcomes of randomised treatment of ARIA  
(snapshot algorithm) 
Demographics 
    Median Age (years) 
 Female 
 Non-white 
 Hepatitis B and/ or C 
 CDC class C 
Week 48 Efficacy Results 
 HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL 
 Treatment difference 
   Virologic Failure  
       Reasons 
    Data in window not below 50 c/mL 
threshold 
    Discontinued for lack of efficacy 
    Discontinued for other reason while not 
below threshold 
No Virologic Data  
Discontinued due to AE or death 
Discontinued for other reasons 
Missing data during window but on study 
DTG/ABC/3TC 
FDC 
N=248 
ATV+RTV+TDF/FTC 
FDC 
N=247 
37 
100 % 
54 % 
6 % 
4 % 
82 % 
37 
100 % 
57 % 
9% 
4 % 
71 % 
10.5 (3.1% to 17.8%) [p=0.005]. 
6 % 
2 % 
2 % 
3 % 
12 % 
4 % 
6 % 
2 % 
14 % 
6 % 
<1 % 
7 % 
15 % 
7 % 
6 % 
2 % 
AE = Adverse event. 
HIV-1 - human immunodeficiency virus type 1 
DTG/ABC/3TC FDC - abacavir/dolutegravir/lamivudine fixed-dose combination 
ATV+RTV+TDF/FTC FDC -atazanavir plus ritonavir plus tenofovir disproxil/emtricitabine fixed-
dose combination 
STRIIVING (201147) is a 48-week, randomised, open-label, active controlled, multicenter, non-
inferiority study in patients without any prior treatment failure, and without any documented resistance 
to any class. Virologically suppressed (HIV-1 RNA <50 c/mL) subjects were randomly assigned (1:1) 
to continue their current ART regimen (2 NRTIs plus either a PI, NNRTI, or INI), or switch to 
ABC/DTG/3TC FDC film-coated tablets once daily (Early Switch). Hepatitis B co-infection was one 
of the main exclusion criteria.  
Patients were mainly white (66%) or black (28%) of male sex (87%). Main prior transmission routes 
were homosexual (73%) or heterosexual (29%) contact. The proportion with a positive HCV serology 
was 7%. The median time from first starting ART was around 4.5 years. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Outcomes of randomised treatment of STRIIVING (snapshot algorithm) 
Study Outcomes (Plasma HIV-1 RNA <50 c/mL) at Week 24 and Week 48 – Snapshot Analysis 
(ITT-E Population) 
ABC/DTG/3TC 
FDC 
N=275 
n (%) 
Current ART 
N=278 
n (%) 
Day 1 to W 24 
85 % 
1 % 
Day 1 to W 24 
88 % 
1 % 
1 % 
14 % 
4 % 
9 % 
1 % 
1 % 
10 % 
0 % 
10 % 
<1 % 
Early Switch 
ABC/DTG/3TC 
FDC 
N=275 
n (%) 
Late Switch 
ABC/DTG/3TC 
FDC 
N=244 
n (%) 
Day 1 to W48  W24 to W48 
83 % 
<1 % 
<1 % 
17 % 
4 % 
12 % 
2 % 
92 % 
1 % 
1 % 
7 % 
2 % 
3 % 
2 % 
Outcome Time Point 
Virologic Success 
Virologic Failure 
  Reasons 
Data in window not 
below threshold 
No Virologic Data 
Discontinued due to AE 
or death 
Discontinued for other 
reasons 
Missing data during 
window but on study 
ABC/DTG/3TC FDC = abacavir/dolutegravir/lamivudine fixed-dose combination; AE = adverse event; 
ART = antiretroviral therapy; HIV-1 = human immunodeficiency virus type 1; ITT-E = intent-to-treat 
exposed; W = week. 
Virologic suppression (HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL) in the ABC/DTG/3TC FDC group (85%) was 
statistically non-inferior to the current ART groups (88%) at 24 weeks. The adjusted difference in 
proportion and 95% CI [ABC/DTG/3TC vs current ART] were 3.4%; 95% CI: [-9.1, 2.4]. After 24 
weeks all remaining subjects switched to ABC/DTG/3TC FDC (Late Switch). Similar levels of 
virologic suppression were maintained in both the Early and Late Switch groups at 48 weeks. 
De novo resistance in patients failing therapy in SINGLE, SPRING-2 and FLAMINGO 
De novo resistance was not detected to the integrase class or the NRTI class in any patients who were 
treated with dolutegravir + abacavir/lamivudine in the three studies mentioned.   
For the comparators typical resistance was detected with TDF/FTC/EFV (SINGLE; six with NNRTI 
associated resistance and one with major NRTI resistance) and with 2 NRTIs + raltegravir (SPRING-
2; four with major NRTI resistance and one with raltegravir resistance), while no de novo resistance 
was detected in patients treated with 2 NRTIs + DRV/RTV (FLAMINGO). 
Paediatric population 
In an ongoing Phase I/II 48 week multicentre, open-label study (IMPAACT P1093/ING112578), the 
pharmacokinetic parameters, safety, tolerability and efficacy of dolutegravir was evaluated in 
combination regimens in HIV-1 infected infants, children and adolescents aged ≥ 4 weeks to < 18 
years, the majority of whom were treatment-experienced. 
Dolutegravir in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products was evaluated in treatment 
naïve or treatment-experienced, INSTI-naïve, HIV-1–infected subjects aged at least 4 weeks to 
18 years in an ongoing open-label, multicenter, dose-finding clinical study, IMPAACT P1093. 
Subjects were stratified by age cohort; subjects aged 12 to less than 18 years were enrolled in Cohort I 
and subjects aged 6 to less than 12 years were enrolled in Cohort IIA. Across both cohorts, 67% 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(16/24) of subjects who received the recommended dose (determined by weight and age) achieved 
HIV-1 RNA less than 50 copies per mL at Week 48 (Snapshot algorithm). 
Abacavir and lamivudine once daily, in combination with a third antiretroviral medicinal product, 
were evaluated in a randomised, multicenter trial (ARROW) in HIV-1–infected, treatment-naïve 
subjects. Subjects randomised to once-daily dosing (n = 331) and who weighed at least 25 kg received 
abacavir 600 mg and lamivudine 300 mg, as either the single entities or as FDC. At Week 96, 69% of 
subjects receiving abacavir and lamivudine once-daily in combination with a third antiretroviral 
medicinal product, had HIV-1 RNA less than 80 copies per mL. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Triumeq film-coated tablet has been shown to be bioequivalent to dolutegravir single entity film-
coated tablet and abacavir/lamivudine fixed-dose combination tablet (ABC/3TC FDC) administered 
separately. This was demonstrated in a single dose, 2-way crossover bioequivalence study of Triumeq 
(fasted) versus 1 x 50 mg dolutegravir tablet, plus 1 x 600mg abacavir/300 mg lamivudine tablet 
(fasted) in healthy subjects (n=66).  
The relative bioavailability of abacavir and lamivudine administered in dispersible tablet form is 
comparable to film-coated tablets. The relative bioavailability of dolutegravir administered in 
dispersible tablet form is approximately 1.7-fold higher as compared to film-coated tablets. Thus, the 
Triumeq dispersible tablets are not directly interchangeable with Triumeq film-coated tablets (see 
section 4.2). 
The pharmacokinetic properties of dolutegravir, lamivudine and abacavir are described below.  
Absorption  
Dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine are rapidly absorbed following oral administration. The 
absolute bioavailability of dolutegravir has not been established. The absolute bioavailability of oral 
abacavir and lamivudine in adults is about 83% and 80-85% respectively. The mean time to maximal 
serum concentrations (tmax) is about 2 to 3 hours (post dose for tablet formulation), 1.5 hours and 
1.0 hour for dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine, respectively.  
Exposure to dolutegravir was generally similar between healthy subjects and HIV-1–infected subjects. 
In  HIV-1–infected  adult  subjects  following  dolutegravir  50 mg  film-coated  tablets  once  daily,  the 
[%CV])  based  on  population 
steady-state  pharmacokinetic  parameters 
pharmacokinetic analyses were AUC(0-24) = 53.6 (27) µg.h/mL, Cmax = 3.67 (20) µg/mL, and Cmin = 1.11 
(46) µg/mL. Following a single dose of 600 mg of abacavir, the mean (CV) Cmax is 4.26 µg/ml (28%) 
and  the  mean  (CV)  AUC∞  is  11.95 µg.h/ml  (21%).  Following  multiple-dose  oral  administration  of 
lamivudine 300 mg once daily for seven days, the mean (CV) steady-state Cmax is 2.04 µg/ml (26%) and 
the mean (CV) AUC24 is 8.87 µg.h/ml (21%). 
(geometric  mean 
The effect of a high fat meal on Triumeq dispersible tablet was evaluated in a single dose, 2-cohort, 
crossover study. Plasma Cmax decreased for dolutegravir (29%), abacavir (55%), and lamivudine (36%) 
following administration of Triumeq dispersible tablets with a high fat meal. AUCs for all 3 
components were not affected by food. These results indicate that Triumeq dispersible tablets can be 
taken with or without food. 
Distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution of dolutegravir (following oral administration of suspension 
formulation, Vd/F) is estimated at 12.5 L.  Intravenous studies with abacavir and lamivudine showed 
that the mean apparent volume of distribution is 0.8 and 1.3 l/kg respectively. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dolutegravir is highly bound (> 99%) to human plasma proteins based on in vitro data.  Binding of 
dolutegravir to plasma proteins is independent of dolutegravir concentration.  Total blood and plasma 
drug-related radioactivity concentration ratios averaged between 0.441 to 0.535, indicating minimal 
association of radioactivity with blood cellular components. The unbound fraction of dolutegravir in 
plasma is increased at low levels of serum albumin (<35 g/L) as seen in subjects with moderate 
hepatic impairment. Plasma protein binding studies in vitro indicate that abacavir binds only low to 
moderately (~49%) to human plasma proteins at therapeutic concentrations. Lamivudine exhibits 
linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range and displays limited plasma protein binding in 
vitro (< 36%). 
Dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine are present in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).   
In 13 treatment-naïve subjects on a stable dolutegravir plus abacavir/lamivudine regimen, dolutegravir 
concentration in CSF averaged 18 ng/mL (comparable to unbound plasma concentration, and above 
the IC50). Studies with abacavir demonstrate a CSF to plasma AUC ratio of between 30 to 44%. The 
observed values of the peak concentrations are 9-fold greater than the IC50 of abacavir of 0.08 µg/ml 
or 0.26 µM when abacavir is given at 600 mg twice daily. The mean ratio of CSF/serum lamivudine 
concentrations 2-4 hours after oral administration was approximately 12%. The true extent of CNS 
penetration of lamivudine and its relationship with any clinical efficacy is unknown. 
Dolutegravir is present in the female and male genital tract.  AUC in cervicovaginal fluid, cervical 
tissue and vaginal tissue were 6-10% of those in corresponding plasma at steady state. AUC in semen 
was 7% and 17% in rectal tissue of those in corresponding plasma at steady state. 
Biotransformation 
Dolutegravir is primarily metabolised via UGT1A1 with a minor CYP3A component (9.7% of total 
dose administered in a human mass balance study).  Dolutegravir is the predominant circulating 
compound in plasma; renal elimination of unchanged active substance is low (< 1% of the dose).  
Fifty-three percent of total oral dose is excreted unchanged in the faeces. It is unknown if all or part of 
this is due to unabsorbed active substance or biliary excretion of the glucuronidate conjugate, which 
can be further degraded to form the parent compound in the gut lumen.  Thirty-two percent of the total 
oral dose is excreted in the urine, represented by ether glucuronide of dolutegravir (18.9% of total 
dose), N-dealkylation metabolite (3.6% of total dose), and a metabolite formed by oxidation at the 
benzylic carbon (3.0% of total dose). 
Abacavir is primarily metabolised by the liver with approximately 2% of the administered dose being 
renally excreted, as unchanged compound. The primary pathways of metabolism in man are by alcohol 
dehydrogenase and by glucuronidation to produce the 5’-carboxylic acid and 5’-glucuronide which 
account for about 66% of the administered dose. These metabolites are excreted in the urine. 
Metabolism of lamivudine is a minor route of elimination. Lamivudine is predominately cleared by 
renal excretion of unchanged lamivudine. The likelihood of metabolic drug interactions with 
lamivudine is low due to the small extent of hepatic metabolism (5-10%). 
Drug interactions 
In vitro, dolutegravir demonstrated no direct, or weak inhibition (IC50>50 μM) of the enzymes 
cytochrome P450 (CYP)1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A, 
UGT1A1 or UGT2B7, or the transporters Pgp, BCRP, BSEP, organic anion transporting polypeptide 
1B1 (OATP1B1), OATP1B3, OCT1, MATE2-K, multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2) or 
MRP4. In vitro, dolutegravir did not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6 or CYP3A4. Based on this data, 
dolutegravir is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of medicinal products that are substrates of 
major enzymes or transporters (see section 4.5). 
In vitro, dolutegravir was not a substrate of human OATP 1B1, OATP 1B3 or OCT 1. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro, abacavir did not inhibit or induce CYP enzymes (other than CY1A1 and CYP3A4 [limited 
potential], see section 4.5) and demonstrates no or weak inhibition of OATP1B1, OAT1B3, OCT1, 
OCT2, BCRP and P-gp or MATE2-K.  Abacavir is therefore not expected to affect the plasma 
concentrations of medicinal products that are substrates of these enzymes or transporters. 
Abacavir was not significantly metabolised by CYP enzymes.  In vitro, abacavir was not a substrate of 
OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, OCT2, OAT1, MATE1, MATE2-K, MRP2 or MRP4 therefore 
medicinal products that modulate these transporters are not expected to affect abacavir plasma 
concentrations.  
In vitro, lamivudine did not inhibit or induce CYP enzymes (such as CYP3A4, CYP2C9 or CYP2D6) 
and demonstrated no or weak inhibition of OATP1B1, OAT1B3, OCT3, BCRP, P-gp, MATE1 or 
MATE2-K.  Lamivudine is therefore not expected to affect the plasma concentrations of medicinal 
products that are substrates of these enzymes or transporters. 
Lamivudine was not significantly metabolised by CYP enzymes.  
Elimination  
Dolutegravir has a terminal half-life of ~14 hours. The apparent oral clearance (CL/F) is 
approximately 1 L/hr in HIV-infected patients based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis.  
The mean half-life of abacavir is about 1.5 hours. The geometric mean terminal half-life of 
intracellular active moiety carbovirtriphosphate (TP) at steady-state is 20.6 hours. Following multiple 
oral doses of abacavir 300 mg twice a day there is no significant accumulation of abacavir. 
Elimination of abacavir is via hepatic metabolism with subsequent excretion of metabolites primarily 
in the urine. The metabolites and unchanged abacavir account for about 83% of the administered 
abacavir dose in the urine. The remainder is eliminated in the faeces. 
The observed lamivudine half-life of elimination is 18 to 19 hours. For patients receiving lamivudine 
300 mg once daily, the terminal intracellular half-life of lamivudine-TP was 16 to 19 hours. The mean 
systemic clearance of lamivudine is approximately 0.32 L/h/kg, predominantly by renal clearance 
(> 70%) via the organic cationic transport system. Studies in patients with renal impairment show 
lamivudine elimination is affected by renal dysfunction. Dose reduction is required for patients with 
creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min (see section 4.2).  
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship(s)  
In a randomised, dose-ranging trial, HIV-1–infected subjects treated with dolutegravir monotherapy 
(ING111521) demonstrated rapid and dose-dependent antiviral activity with mean decline in HIV-1 
RNA of 2.5 log10 at day 11 for 50 mg dose. This antiviral response was maintained for 3 to 4 days 
after the last dose in the 50 mg group. 
Intracellular pharmacokinetics  
The geometric mean terminal carbovir-TP intracellular half-life at steady-state was 20.6 hours, 
compared to the geometric mean abacavir plasma half-life of 2.6 hours. The terminal intracellular half-
life of lamivudine-TP was prolonged to 16-19 hours,  supporting once daily dosing of ABC and 3TC.  
Special  populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Pharmacokinetic data has been obtained for dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine separately.  
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dolutegravir is primarily metabolised and eliminated by the liver. A single dose of 50 mg of 
dolutegravir was administered to 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) 
and to 8 matched healthy adult controls. While the total dolutegravir concentration in plasma was 
similar, a 1.5 to 2-fold increase in unbound exposure to dolutegravir was observed in subjects with 
moderate hepatic impairment compared to healthy controls. No dose adjustment is considered 
necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. The effect of severe hepatic 
impairment on the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir has not been studied. 
Abacavir is metabolised primarily by the liver. The pharmacokinetics of abacavir have been studied in 
patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5-6) receiving a single 600 mg dose. The 
results showed that there was a mean increase of 1.89-fold [1.32; 2.70] in the abacavir AUC, and 1.58 
[1.22; 2.04] fold in the elimination half-life. No recommendation on dose reduction is possible in 
patients with mild hepatic impairment due to substantial variability of abacavir exposure.  
Data obtained in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment show that lamivudine 
pharmacokinetics are not significantly affected by hepatic dysfunction. 
Based on data obtained for abacavir, Triumeq is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe 
hepatic impairment. 
Renal impairment 
Pharmacokinetic data have been obtained for dolutegravir, lamivudine and abacavir separately. 
Renal clearance of unchanged active substance is a minor pathway of elimination for dolutegravir. A 
study of the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir was performed in subjects with severe renal impairment 
(CrCl <30 mL/min). No clinically important pharmacokinetic differences between subjects with severe 
renal impairment (CrCl <30 mL/min) and matching healthy subjects were observed. Dolutegravir has 
not been studied in patients on dialysis, though differences in exposure are not expected. 
Abacavir is primarily metabolised by the liver with approximately 2% of abacavir excreted unchanged 
in the urine. The pharmacokinetics of abacavir in patients with end-stage renal disease is similar to 
patients with normal renal function. 
Studies with lamivudine show that plasma concentrations (AUC) are increased in patients with renal 
dysfunction due to decreased clearance.  
Based on the lamivudine data, Triumeq dispersible tablets are not recommended for patients with 
creatinine clearance of < 50 mL/min (see section 4.2). 
Elderly 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis of dolutegravir using data from HIV-1 infected adults showed 
that there was no clinically relevant effect of age on dolutegravir exposure. 
Pharmacokinetic data for dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine in subjects >65 years of age are 
limited. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir film-coated and dispersible tablets in HIV-1 infected infants, 
children and adolescents aged ≥ 4 weeks to < 18 years were evaluated in two on-going studies 
(IMPAACT P1093/ING112578 and ODYSSEY/201296). Mean dolutegravir AUC0-24h and C24h in 
HIV-1–infected paediatric subjects weighing at least 14 kg were comparable to those in adults after 50 
mg once daily or 50 mg twice daily. Mean Cmax is higher in paediatrics, but the increase is not 
considered clinically significant as the safety profiles were similar in paediatric and adult subjects.  
Pharmacokinetic data are available for abacavir and lamivudine in children and adolescents receiving 
recommended dose regimens of the oral solution and tablet formulations. Pharmacokinetic parameters 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are comparable to those reported in adults. In children and adolescents weighing 14 kg to less than 25 
kg, at recommended doses, predicted exposures (AUC0-24h) for abacavir and lamivudine with Triumeq 
dispersible tablets are within the predicted exposure range of the individual components based on 
population pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation.  
Polymorphisms in drug metabolising enzymes 
There is no evidence that common polymorphisms in drug metabolising enzymes alter dolutegravir 
pharmacokinetics to a clinically meaningful extent. In a meta-analysis using pharmacogenomics 
samples collected in clinical studies in healthy subjects, subjects with UGT1A1 (n=7) genotypes 
conferring poor dolutegravir metabolism had a 32% lower clearance of dolutegravir and 46% higher 
AUC compared with subjects with genotypes associated with normal metabolism via UGT1A1 
(n=41).  
Gender 
Population PK analyses using pooled pharmacokinetic data from Phase IIb and Phase III adult trials 
revealed no clinically relevant effect of gender on the exposure of dolutegravir. There is no evidence 
that a dose adjustment of dolutegravir, abacavir or lamivudine would be required based on the effects 
of gender on PK parameters. 
Race 
Population PK analyses using pooled pharmacokinetic data from Phase IIb and Phase III adult trials 
revealed no clinically relevant effect of race on the exposure of dolutegravir. The pharmacokinetics of 
dolutegravir following single dose oral administration to Japanese subjects appear similar to observed 
parameters in Western (US) subjects. There is no evidence that a dose adjustment of dolutegravir, 
abacavir or lamivudine would be required based on the effects of race on PK parameters. 
Co-infection with Hepatitis B or C 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that hepatitis C virus co-infection had no clinically 
relevant effect on the exposure to dolutegravir. There are limited pharmacokinetic data on subjects 
with hepatitis B co-infection (see section 4.4). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
There are no data available on the effects of the combination of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine 
in animals, except a negative in vivo rat micronucleus test which tested the effects of the combination 
of abacavir and lamivudine.   
Mutagenicity and carcinogenicity  
Dolutegravir was not mutagenic or clastogenic using in vitro tests in bacteria and cultured mammalian 
cells, and an in vivo rodent micronucleus assay.  
Neither abacavir nor lamivudine were mutagenic in bacterial tests, but consistent with other nucleoside 
analogues, inhibit cellular DNA replication in in vitro mammalian tests such as the mouse lymphoma 
assay. The results of an in vivo rat micronucleus test with abacavir and lamivudine in combination 
were negative.  
Lamivudine has not shown any genotoxic activity in the in vivo studies. Abacavir has a weak potential 
to cause chromosomal damage both in vitro and in vivo at high tested concentrations.  
The carcinogenic potential of a combination of dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine has not been 
tested. Dolutegravir was not carcinogenic in long term studies in the mouse and rat. In long-term oral 
carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice, lamivudine did not show any carcinogenic potential. 
Carcinogenicity studies with orally administered abacavir in mice and rats showed an increase in the 
incidence of malignant and non-malignant tumours. Malignant tumours occurred in the preputial gland 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of males and the clitoral gland of females of both species, and in rats in the thyroid gland of males and 
in the liver, urinary bladder, lymph nodes and the subcutis of females.  
The majority of these tumours occurred at the highest abacavir dose of 330 mg/kg/day in mice and 
600 mg/kg/day in rats. The exception was the preputial gland tumour which occurred at a dose of 
110 mg/kg in mice. The systemic exposure at the no effect level in mice and rats was equivalent to 3 
and 7 times the human systemic exposure during therapy. While the clinical relevance of these 
findings is unknown, these data suggest that a potential carcinogenic risk to humans is outweighed by 
the clinical benefit. 
Repeat-dose toxicity  
The effect of prolonged daily treatment with high doses of dolutegravir has been evaluated in repeat 
oral dose toxicity studies in rats (up to 26 weeks) and in monkeys (up to 38 weeks).  The primary 
effect of dolutegravir was gastrointestinal intolerance or irritation in rats and monkeys at doses that 
produce systemic exposures approximately 38 and 1.5 times the 50 mg human clinical exposure based 
on AUC, respectively.  Because gastrointestinal (GI) intolerance is considered to be due to local active 
substance administration, mg/kg or mg/m2 metrics are appropriate determinates of safety cover for this 
toxicity.  GI intolerance in monkeys occurred at 30 times the human mg/kg equivalent dose (based on 
50 kg human), and 11 times the human mg/m2 equivalent dose for a total daily clinical dose of 50 mg.   
In toxicology studies abacavir was shown to increase liver weights in rats and monkeys. The clinical 
relevance of this is unknown. There is no evidence from clinical studies that abacavir is hepatotoxic. 
Additionally, autoinduction of abacavir metabolism or induction of the metabolism of other medicinal 
products hepatically metabolised has not been observed in humans. 
Mild myocardial degeneration in the heart of mice and rats was observed following administration of 
abacavir for two years. The systemic exposures were equivalent to 7 to 21 times the expected systemic 
exposure in humans. The clinical relevance of this finding has not been determined. 
Reproductive toxicology  
In reproductive toxicity studies in animals, dolutegravir, lamivudine and abacavir were shown to cross 
the placenta. 
Oral administration of dolutegravir to pregnant rats at doses up to 1000 mg/kg daily from days 6 to 17 
of gestation did not elicit maternal toxicity, developmental toxicity or teratogenicity (50 times the 
50 mg human clinical exposure when administered in combination with abacavir and lamivudine 
based on AUC). 
Oral administration of dolutegravir to pregnant rabbits at doses up to 1000 mg/kg daily from days 6 to 
18 of gestation did not elicit developmental toxicity or teratogenicity (0.74 times the 50mg human 
clinical exposure when administered in combination with abacavir and lamivudine based on AUC).  In 
rabbits, maternal toxicity (decreased food consumption, scant/no faeces/urine, suppressed body weight 
gain) was observed at 1000 mg/kg (0.74 times the 50 mg human clinical exposure when administered 
in combination with abacavir and lamivudine based on AUC). 
Lamivudine was not teratogenic in animal studies but there were indications of an increase in early 
embryonic deaths in rabbits at relatively low systemic exposures, comparable to those achieved in 
humans. A similar effect was not seen in rats even at very high systemic exposure. 
Abacavir demonstrated toxicity to the developing embryo and foetus in rats, but not in rabbits. These 
findings included decreased foetal body weight, foetal oedema, and an increase in skeletal 
variations/malformations, early intra-uterine deaths and still births. No conclusion can be drawn with 
regard to the teratogenic potential of abacavir because of this embryo-foetal toxicity. 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility studies in rats have shown that dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine have no effect on male 
or female fertility. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1  List of excipients  
Tablet core  
Acesulfame Potassium 
Crospovidone  
Mannitol (E421) 
Microcrystalline Cellulose 
Povidone  
Silicified Microcrystalline Cellulose (cellulose, microcrystalline; silica, colloidal anhydrous) 
Sodium Starch Glycolate  
Sodium Stearyl Fumarate 
Strawberry Cream Flavour  
Sucralose 
Tablet coating 
Iron Oxide Yellow (E172) 
Macrogol 
Polyvinyl Alcohol-Part Hydrolyzed 
Talc 
Titanium Dioxide (E171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life  
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Keep the bottle tightly closed. Do not 
remove the desiccant. Do not swallow the desiccant.  
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Opaque, white HDPE (high density polyethylene) bottles closed with polypropylene child-resistant 
closures, with a polyethylene faced induction heat seal liner.  
Each bottle contains 90 dispersible tablets and a desiccant.  
A plastic dosing cup with graduation marks at 5 mL intervals, between 15 mL and 40 mL, is supplied 
with the pack. 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
The dispersible tablet must be dispersed in drinking water. The tablet(s) should be fully dispersed in 
20 mL of drinking water, before swallowing and must be given within 30 minutes of preparation (see 
section 4.2 and Step-by-step instructions for use). 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
ViiV Healthcare BV 
Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55H 
3811 LP Amersfoort 
Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/940/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 1st September 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 20th June 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu  
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.   MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Film-coated Tablets:  
GLAXO WELLCOME, S.A., 
Avda. Extremadura, 3  
Pol. Ind. Allendeduero  
Aranda de Duero  
Burgos, 09400  
Spain 
Or 
Delpharm Poznań Spółka Akcyjna  
UL.Grunwaldzka 189 
60-322 Poznan  
Poland 
Dispersible Tablets: 
GLAXO WELLCOME, S.A., 
Avda. Extremadura, 3  
Pol. Ind. Allendeduero  
Aranda de Duero  
Burgos, 09400  
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are  set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BOTTLE CARTON (INDIVIDUAL PACKS ONLY) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Triumeq 50 mg/600 mg/300 mg film-coated tablets 
dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each film-coated tablet contains 50 mg dolutegravir (as sodium), 600 mg abacavir (as sulfate), 300 mg 
lamivudine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
30 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
Detach enclosed Alert Card, it contains important safety information. 
WARNING  
In case of any symptoms suggesting hypersensitivity reactions, contact your doctor IMMEDIATELY. 
Push here (with Alert card attached) 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Keep the bottle tightly closed. Do not 
remove the desiccant.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
ViiV Healthcare BV 
Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55H 
3811 LP Amersfoort 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/940/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Triumeq 50 mg:600 mg:300 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN  
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Triumeq 50 mg/600 mg/300 mg tablets 
dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each film-coated tablet contains 50 mg dolutegravir (as sodium), 600 mg abacavir (as sulfate), 300 mg 
lamivudine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
30 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Keep the bottle tightly closed. Do not 
remove the desiccant.  
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
ViiV Healthcare BV 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/940/001 
EU/1/14/940/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BOTTLE CARTON (MULTIPACKS ONLY – WITH BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Triumeq 50 mg/600 mg/300 mg film-coated tablets 
dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each film-coated tablet contains 50 mg dolutegravir (as sodium), 600 mg abacavir (as sulfate), 300 mg 
lamivudine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Multipack: 90 (3 packs of 30) film-coated tablets  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
WARNING! In case of any symptoms suggesting hypersensitivity reactions, contact your doctor 
IMMEDIATELY. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Keep the bottle tightly closed. Do not 
remove the desiccant.  
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
ViiV Healthcare BV 
Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55H 
3811 LP Amersfoort 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/940/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Triumeq 50 mg:600 mg:300 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN  
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE INTERMEDIATE PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON (WITHOUT BLUE BOX – COMPONENT OF MULTIPACK) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Triumeq 50 mg/600 mg/300 mg film-coated tablets 
dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each film-coated tablet contains 50 mg dolutegravir (as sodium), 600 mg abacavir (as sulfate), 300 mg 
lamivudine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
30 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
Detach enclosed Alert Card, it contains important safety information. 
WARNING  
In case of any symptoms suggesting hypersensitivity reactions, contact your doctor IMMEDIATELY. 
Push here (with Alert card attached) 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Keep the bottle tightly closed. Do not 
remove the desiccant.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
ViiV Healthcare BV 
Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55H 
3811 LP Amersfoort 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/940/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Triumeq 50 mg:600 mg:300 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 5 mg/60 mg/30 mg dispersible tablets 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Triumeq 5 mg/60 mg/30 mg dispersible tablets 
dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each dispersible tablet contains 5 mg dolutegravir (as sodium), 60 mg abacavir (as sulfate), 30 mg 
lamivudine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Dispersible tablet  
90 dispersible tablets 
This pack contains a dosing cup.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
Detach enclosed Alert Card, it contains important safety information. 
WARNING  
In case of any symptoms suggesting hypersensitivity reactions, contact your doctor IMMEDIATELY. 
Push here (with Alert card attached) 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Keep the bottle tightly closed.  
Do not remove the desiccant. Do not swallow the desiccant.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
ViiV Healthcare BV 
Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55H 
3811 LP Amersfoort 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/940/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
triumeq 5 mg:60 mg:30 mg   
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.  
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
88 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 5 mg/60 mg/30 mg dispersible tablets 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Triumeq 5 mg/60 mg/30 mg dispersible tablets 
dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each dispersible tablet contains 5 mg dolutegravir (as sodium), 60 mg abacavir (as sulfate), 30 mg 
lamivudine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Dispersible tablet  
90 dispersible tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.  
Keep the bottle tightly closed.  
Do not remove the desiccant.  
Do not swallow the desiccant.  
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
ViiV Healthcare BV 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/940/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRIUMEQ TABLETS AND DISPERSIBLE TABLETS PATIENT ALERT CARD  
SIDE 1  
IMPORTANT  -  PATIENT ALERT CARD 
Triumeq (dolutegravir / abacavir / lamivudine) tablets and 
dispersible tablets 
Carry this card with you at all times 
Since Triumeq contains abacavir some patients taking Triumeq may develop a hypersensitivity 
reaction (serious allergic reaction). This reaction can be life-threatening if treatment with Triumeq is 
continued. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR IMMEDIATELY for advice on whether you should 
stop taking Triumeq if:  
1) 
2) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
fever 
shortness of breath, sore throat or cough 
nausea or vomiting or diarrhoea or abdominal pain 
severe tiredness or achiness or generally feeling ill 
you get a skin rash OR 
you get one or more symptoms from at least TWO of the following groups 
If you have discontinued Triumeq due to this reaction, YOU MUST NEVER TAKE Triumeq, or any 
medicine containing abacavir again as within hours you may experience a life-threatening lowering 
of your blood pressure or death.  
 (see reverse of card) 
SIDE 2 
You should immediately contact your doctor if you think you are having a hypersensitivity reaction to 
Triumeq. Write your doctor's details below:  
Doctor:.......................……………………  Tel:...................………… 
If your doctor is not available, you must urgently seek alternative medical advice (e.g. the 
emergency unit of the nearest hospital). 
For general Triumeq information enquiries, contact:  
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
Triumeq 50 mg/600 mg/300 mg film-coated tablets  
dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
- 
-     This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
- 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Triumeq is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Triumeq  
3.  How to take Triumeq 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Triumeq 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Triumeq is and what it is used for 
Triumeq is a medicine that contains three active substances used to treat HIV infection: abacavir, 
lamivudine and dolutegravir. Abacavir and lamivudine belong to a group of anti-retroviral medicines 
(medicines used to treat HIV infection) called nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
(NRTIs), and dolutegravir belongs to a group of anti-retroviral medicines called integrase inhibitors 
(INIs). 
Triumeq is used to treat HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) infection in adults, adolescents and 
children   who weigh at least 25 kg. 
Before you are prescribed Triumeq your doctor will arrange a test to find out whether you carry a 
particular type of gene called HLA-B*5701. Triumeq should not be used in patients who are known to 
carry the HLA-B*5701 gene. Patients with this gene are at a high risk of developing a serious 
hypersensitivity (allergic) reaction if they use Triumeq (see ‘hypersensitivity reactions’ in section 4). 
Triumeq does not cure HIV infection; it reduces the amount of virus in your body, and keeps it at a 
low level. It also increases the number of CD4 cells in your blood. CD4 cells are a type of white blood 
cells that are important in helping your body to fight infection. 
Not everyone responds to treatment with Triumeq in the same way. Your doctor will monitor the 
effectiveness of your treatment. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Triumeq 
Do not take Triumeq  
• 
if you are allergic (hypersensitive) to dolutegravir, abacavir (or any other medicine containing 
abacavir), or lamivudine, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Carefully read all the information about hypersensitivity reactions in Section 4. 
If you are taking a medicine called fampridine (also known as dalfampridine; used in 
multiple sclerosis). 
→ If you think any of these apply to you, tell your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
IMPORTANT — Hypersensitivity reactions 
Triumeq contains abacavir and dolutegravir. Both of these active substances can cause a serious 
allergic reaction known as a hypersensitivity reaction. You should never take abacavir or abacavir-
containing products again if you have a hypersensitivity reaction: it can be life threatening. 
You must carefully read all the information under ‘Hypersensitivity reactions’ in the panel in 
Section 4. 
The Triumeq pack includes an Alert Card to remind you and medical staff about hypersensitivity. 
Detach this card and keep it with you at all times. 
Take special care with Triumeq  
Some people taking Triumeq or other combination treatments for HIV are more at risk of serious side 
effects than others. You need to be aware of the extra risks: 
• 
• 
• 
if you have moderate or severe liver disease 
if you have ever had liver disease, including hepatitis B or C (if you have hepatitis B infection, 
don’t stop Triumeq without your doctor’s advice, as your hepatitis may come back)  
if you have a kidney problem 
→ Talk to your doctor if any of these apply to you before using Triumeq. You may need 
extra check-ups, including blood tests, while you’re taking your medicine. See Section 4 for more 
information.  
Abacavir hypersensitivity reactions 
Even patients who don’t have the HLA-B*5701 gene may still develop a hypersensitivity reaction (a 
serious allergic reaction). 
→ Carefully read all the information about hypersensitivity reactions in Section 4 of this 
leaflet. 
Risk of cardiovascular events 
It cannot be excluded that abacavir may increase the risk of having cardiovascular events. 
→ Tell your doctor if you have cardiovascular problems, if you smoke, or have other illnesses 
that may increase your risk of cardiovascular diseases such as high blood pressure or diabetes. 
Don’t stop taking Triumeq unless your doctor advises you to do so. 
Look out for important symptoms  
Some people taking medicines for HIV infection develop other conditions, which can be serious. 
These include:  
• 
• 
symptoms of infections and inflammation 
joint pain, stiffness and bone problems 
You need to know about important signs and symptoms to look out for while you’re taking Triumeq.  
→ Read the information ‘Other possible side effects of combination therapy for HIV’ in 
Section 4 of this leaflet.  
Children 
This medicine is not for children weighing less than 25 kg because the dose of each component of this 
medicine cannot be adjusted to their weight.  
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Triumeq 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Don't take Triumeq with the following medicine: 
• 
fampridine (also known as dalfampridine), used in multiple sclerosis. 
Some medicines can affect how Triumeq works, or make it more likely that you will have side effects.  
Triumeq can also affect how some other medicines work.  
Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the medicines in the following list: 
•  metformin, to treat diabetes 
•  medicines called antacids, to treat indigestion and heartburn. Do not take an antacid 
• 
during the 6 hours before you take Triumeq, or for at least 2 hours after you take it. (See also 
Section 3). 
supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or magnesium. If you take Triumeq 
with food, you can take supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or magnesium 
at the same time as Triumeq. If you do not take Triumeq with food, do not take 
supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or magnesium during the 6 hours 
before you take Triumeq, or for at least 2 hours after you take it (see also Section 3). 
•  emtricitabine, etravirine, efavirenz, nevirapine or tipranavir/ritonavir, to treat HIV infection 
•  medicines (usually liquids) containing sorbitol and other sugar alcohols (such as xylitol, 
mannitol, lactitol or maltitol), if taken regularly 
rifampicin, to treat tuberculosis (TB) and other bacterial infections 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, an antibiotic to treat bacterial infections 
•  other medicines containing lamivudine, used to treat HIV infection or hepatitis B infection 
•  cladribine, used to treat hairy cell leukaemia 
• 
• 
•  phenytoin and phenobarbital, to treat epilepsy 
•  oxcarbazepine and carbamazepine, to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorder 
•  St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal remedy to treat depression 
•  methadone, used as a heroin substitute.  Abacavir increases the rate at which methadone is 
removed from the body. If you are taking methadone, you will be checked for any withdrawal 
symptoms. Your methadone dose may need to be changed 
•  Riociguat, used to treat high blood pressure in the blood vessels (the pulmonary arteries) 
that carry blood from the heart to the lungs. Your doctor may need to reduce your riociguat 
dose, as abacavir may increase riociguat blood levels. 
  → Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of these. Your doctor may decide to 
adjust your dose or that you need extra checkups. 
Pregnancy  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or if you are planning to have a baby:  
→ Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking Triumeq.  
Taking Triumeq at the time of becoming pregnant or during the first six weeks of pregnancy, may 
increase the risk of a type of birth defect, called neural tube defect, such as spina bifida (malformed 
spinal cord).  
If you could get pregnant while receiving Triumeq:  
→ Talk to your doctor and discuss whether there is a need for contraception, such as condom 
or pills.  
Tell your doctor immediately if you become pregnant or are planning to become pregnant. Your 
doctor will review your treatment. Do not stop taking Triumeq without consulting your doctor, as this 
may harm you and your unborn child.  
Breast-feeding  
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. 
A small amount of the ingredients in Triumeq can also pass into your breast milk. 
If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss it with your doctor as 
soon as possible.  
Driving and using machines  
Triumeq can make you dizzy and have other side effects that make you less alert. 
→ Don’t drive or operate machinery unless you are sure your alertness has not been affected.  
Triumeq contains sodium. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per film-coated tablet, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Triumeq 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
•  The usual dose is one tablet once a day 
Swallow the tablet with some liquid. Triumeq can be taken with or without food. 
Use in children and adolescents 
Children and adolescents weighing at least 25 kg can take the adult dose of one tablet once a day. 
If you weigh less than 25 kg, you cannot take Triumeq film-coated tablets, because the dose of each 
component of this medicine cannot be adjusted to your weight. Your doctor should  prescribe Triumeq 
dispersible tablets or the components separately for you.  
Triumeq is available as film-coated and dispersible tablets. Film-coated tablets and dispersible tablets 
are not the same. Therefore, you should not switch between film-coated tablets and dispersible tablets 
without first talking to your doctor. 
Do not take an antacid during the 6 hours before you take Triumeq, or for at least 2 hours after you 
take it.  Other acid-lowering medicines like ranitidine and omeprazole can be taken at the same time as 
Triumeq.  
 → Talk to your doctor for further advice on taking antacid medicines with Triumeq. 
If you take Triumeq with food, you can take supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, 
iron or magnesium at the same time as Triumeq. If you do not take Triumeq with food, do not take 
a supplement or multivitamin containing calcium, iron or magnesium during the 6 hours before you 
take Triumeq, or for at least 2 hours after you take it. 
→Talk to your doctor for further advice on taking supplements or multivitamins containing 
calcium, iron or magnesium with Triumeq. 
If you take more Triumeq than you should  
If you take too many tablets of Triumeq, contact your doctor or pharmacist for advice. If possible, 
show them the Triumeq pack. 
If you forget to take Triumeq  
If you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember.  But if your next dose is due within 4 hours, skip 
the dose you missed and take the next one at the usual time. Then continue your treatment as before.  
→ Don't take a double dose to make up for a missed dose. 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have stopped taking Triumeq 
If you have stopped taking Triumeq for any reason — especially because you think you are having 
side effects, or because you have another illness: 
Talk to your doctor before you start taking it again. Your doctor will check whether your 
symptoms were related to a hypersensitivity reaction. If the doctor thinks they may be related to a 
hypersensitivity reaction, you will be told never again to take Triumeq, or any other medicine 
containing abacavir or dolutegravir. It is important that you follow this advice. 
If your doctor advises that you can start taking Triumeq again, you may be asked to take your first 
doses in a place where you will have ready access to medical care if you need it. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
When you’re being treated for HIV, it can be hard to tell whether a symptom is a side effect of 
Triumeq or other medicines you are taking, or an effect of the HIV disease itself. So it is very 
important to talk to your doctor about any changes in your health. 
Abacavir can cause a hypersensitivity reaction (a serious allergic reaction), especially in people 
who carry a particular type of gene called HLA-B*5701. Even patients who don’t have the HLA-
B*5701 gene may still develop a hypersensitivity reaction, described in this leaflet in the panel 
headed ‘Hypersensitivity reactions’. It is very important that you read and understand the 
information about this serious reaction. 
As well as the side effects listed below for Triumeq, other conditions can develop during 
combination therapy for HIV.  
It is important to read the information in this section under the heading ‘Other possible side effects 
of combination therapy for HIV’. 
Hypersensitivity reactions  
Triumeq contains abacavir and dolutegravir. Both of these active substances can cause a serious 
allergic reaction known as a hypersensitivity reaction.  
These hypersensitivity reactions have been seen more frequently in people taking medicines that 
contain abacavir.  
Who gets these reactions? 
Anyone taking Triumeq could develop a hypersensitivity reaction, which could be life threatening if 
they continue to take Triumeq. 
You are more likely to develop this reaction if you have a gene called HLA-B*5701 (but you can get a 
reaction even if you don’t have this gene). You should have been tested for this gene before Triumeq 
was prescribed for you. If you know you have this gene, tell your doctor. 
What are the symptoms? 
The most common symptoms are: 
fever (high temperature) and skin rash. 
Other common symptoms are: 
nausea (feeling sick), vomiting (being sick), diarrhoea, abdominal (stomach) pain, severe tiredness. 
Other symptoms include: 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pains in the joints or muscles, swelling of the neck, shortness of breath, sore throat, cough, occasional 
headaches, inflammation of the eye (conjunctivitis), mouth ulcers, low blood pressure, tingling or 
numbness of the hands or feet. 
When do these reactions happen? 
Hypersensitivity reactions can start at any time during treatment with Triumeq, but are more likely 
during the first 6 weeks of treatment. 
Contact your doctor immediately: 
1 
2 
if you get a skin rash, OR 
if you get symptoms from at least 2 of the following groups: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
fever  
shortness of breath, sore throat or cough 
nausea or vomiting, diarrhoea or abdominal pain 
severe tiredness or aches and pains, or generally feeling ill. 
Your doctor may advise you to stop taking Triumeq. 
If you have stopped taking Triumeq 
If you have stopped taking Triumeq because of a hypersensitivity reaction, you must NEVER 
AGAIN take Triumeq, or any other medicine containing abacavir. If you do, within hours, your 
blood pressure could fall dangerously low, which could result in death. You should also never again 
take medicines containing dolutegravir. 
If you have stopped taking Triumeq for any reason — especially because you think you are having 
side effects, or because you have other illness: 
Talk to your doctor before you start again. Your doctor will check whether your symptoms were 
related to a hypersensitivity reaction. If the doctor thinks they may have been, you will then be told 
never again to take Triumeq, or any other medicine containing abacavir. You may also be told 
never again to take any other medicine containing dolutegravir. It is important that you follow this 
advice. 
Occasionally, hypersensitivity reactions have developed in people who start taking abacavir containing 
products again, but who had only one symptom on the Alert Card before they stopped taking it. 
Very rarely, patients who have taken medicines containing abacavir in the past without any symptoms 
of hypersensitivity have developed a hypersensitivity reaction when they start taking these medicines 
again.  
If your doctor advises that you can start taking Triumeq again, you may be asked to take your first 
doses in a place where you will have ready access to medical care if you need it. 
If you are hypersensitive to Triumeq, return all your unused Triumeq tablets for safe disposal. Ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
The Triumeq pack includes an Alert Card, to remind you and medical staff about hypersensitivity 
reactions. Detach this card and keep it with you at all times. 
Very common side effects  
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
•  headache 
•  diarrhoea 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  feeling sick (nausea)  
•  difficulty in sleeping (insomnia) 
•  lack of energy (fatigue) 
Common side effects  
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
•  hypersensitivity reaction (see ‘Hypersensitivity reactions’ earlier in this section) 
•  loss of appetite 
•  rash 
•  itching (pruritus) 
•  being sick (vomiting) 
•  stomach (abdominal) pain 
•  stomach (abdominal) discomfort 
•  weight gain 
•  indigestion 
•  wind (flatulence) 
•  dizziness 
•  abnormal dreams 
•  nightmares 
•  depression (feelings of deep sadness and unworthiness) 
•  anxiety 
•  tiredness 
•  feeling drowsy 
•  fever (high temperature) 
•  cough 
•  irritated or runny nose 
•  hair loss 
•  muscle pain and discomfort 
•  joint pain 
•  feeling weak 
•  general feeling of being unwell 
Common side effects that may show up in blood tests are: 
•  an increase in the level of liver enzymes 
Uncommon side effects  
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people: 
•  inflammation of the liver (hepatitis)  
•  suicidal thoughts and behaviours (particularly in patients who have had depression or mental 
health problems before) 
•  panic attack 
Uncommon side effects that may show up in blood tests are: 
•  a decreased number of cells involved in blood clotting (thrombocytopenia). 
•  a low red blood cell count (anaemia) or low white blood cell count (neutropenia) 
•  an increase in sugar (glucose) in the blood 
•  an increase in triglycerides (type of fat) in the blood 
Rare side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 1000 people: 
• 
•  breakdown of muscle tissue 
• 
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) 
liver failure (signs may include yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes or unusually dark 
urine). 
•   suicide (particularly in patients who have had depression or mental health problems before) 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
→  Tell your doctor immediately if you experience any mental health problems (see also other 
mental health problems above). 
Rare side effects that may show up in blood tests are: 
• 
increase in bilirubin (a test of liver function) 
• 
increase in an enzyme called amylase. 
Very rare side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people: 
•  numbness, tingly feelings in the skin (pins and needles) 
• 
• 
sensation of weakness in the limbs 
skin rash, which may form blisters and looks like small targets (central dark spots surrounded by a 
paler area, with a dark ring around the edge) (erythema multiforme) 
a widespread rash with blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, nose, eyes and 
genitals (Stevens–Johnson syndrome), and a more severe form causing skin peeling in more than 
30% of the body surface (toxic epidermal necrolysis) 
lactic acidosis (excess lactic acid in the blood). 
• 
• 
Very rare side effects that may show up in blood tests are:  
• 
a failure of the bone marrow to produce new red blood cells (pure red cell aplasia).  
If you get any side effects 
→ Talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. 
Other possible side effects of combination therapy for HIV 
Combination therapy such as Triumeq may cause other conditions to develop during HIV treatment. 
Symptoms of infection and inflammation  
People with advanced HIV infection or AIDS have weak immune systems, and are more likely to 
develop serious infections (opportunistic infections). Such infections may have been “silent” and not 
detected by the weak immune system before treatment was started. After starting treatment, the 
immune system becomes stronger, and may attack the infections, which can cause symptoms of 
infection or inflammation. Symptoms usually include fever, plus some of the following: 
•  headache 
•  stomach ache 
•  difficulty breathing 
In rare cases, as the immune system becomes stronger, it can also attack healthy body tissue 
(autoimmune disorders).  The symptoms of autoimmune disorders may develop many months after 
you start taking medicine to treat your HIV infection. Symptoms may include: 
•  palpitations (rapid or irregular heartbeat) or tremor 
•  hyperactivity (excessive restlessness and movement)  
•  weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of the body. 
If you get any symptoms of infection and inflammation or if you notice any of the symptoms above: 
  → Tell your doctor immediately. Don’t take other medicines for the infection without your 
doctor’s advice. 
Joint pain, stiffness and bone problems 
Some people taking combination therapy for HIV develop a condition called osteonecrosis. In this 
condition, parts of the bone tissue die because of reduced blood supply to the bone. People may be 
more likely to get this condition: 
•  if they have been taking combination therapy for a long time 
•  if they are also taking anti-inflammatory medicines called corticosteroids 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  if they drink alcohol 
•  if their immune systems are very weak 
•  if they are overweight. 
Signs of osteonecrosis include: 
• stiffness in the joints 
• aches and pains (especially in the hip, knee or shoulder) 
• difficulty moving. 
If you notice any of these symptoms: 
  → Tell your doctor. 
Weight, blood lipid and blood glucose effects  
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and lifestyle, and sometimes to the HIV medicines themselves. Your 
doctor will test for these changes.  
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Triumeq 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and bottle after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Keep the bottle tightly closed. Do not 
remove the desiccant.  
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Triumeq contains  
-  The active substances are dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine. Each tablet contains dolutegravir 
sodium equivalent to 50 mg dolutegravir, 600 mg abacavir (as sulfate) and 300 mg lamivudine. 
-  The other ingredients are mannitol (E421), microcrystalline cellulose, povidone (K29/32), sodium 
starch glycolate, magnesium stearate, poly(vinyl) alcohol – partially hydrolysed, titanium 
dioxide, macrogol/PEG, talc, iron oxide black and iron oxide red). 
- 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
What Triumeq looks like and contents of the pack 
Triumeq film-coated tablets are purple, biconvex, oval tablets, debossed with “572 Trı” on one side. 
The film-coated tablets are provided in bottles containing 30 tablets.   
The bottle contains a desiccant to reduce moisture. Once the bottle has been opened keep the desiccant 
in the bottle, do not remove it.  
Multipacks containing 90 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 30 film-coated tablets) are also available. Not 
all pack sizes may be available in your country. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ViiV Healthcare BV, Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55H, 3811 LP Amersfoort, Netherlands. 
Manufacturer  
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A., Avda. Extremadura 3, 09400 Aranda De Duero, Burgos, Spain 
OR 
Delpharm Poznań Spółka Akcyjna, UL.Grunwaldzka 189, 60-322 Poznan, Poland. 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
ViiV Healthcare srl/bv  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 65 00 
България 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Teл.: + 359 80018205 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 001 111 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Deutschland 
ViiV Healthcare GmbH  
Tel.: + 49 (0)89 203 0038-10  
viiv.med.info@viivhealthcare.com  
Eesti 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 372 8002640 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
España 
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L.  
Tel: + 34 900 923 501  
es-ci@viivhealthcare.com 
France 
ViiV Healthcare SAS  
Tél.: + 33 (0)1 39 17 69 69 
Infomed@viivhealthcare.com 
Hrvatska 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 385 800787089 
Lietuva 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 370 80000334 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
ViiV Healthcare srl/bv  
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 65 00 
Magyarország 
ViiV Healthcare BV Tel.: + 36 80088309 
Malta 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 356 80065004 
Nederland 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 31 (0)33 2081199 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 97075 0 
at.info@gsk.com 
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 576 9000 
Portugal 
VIIVHIV HEALTHCARE, UNIPESSOAL, LDA  
Tel: + 351 21 094 08 01  
viiv.fi.pt@viivhealthcare.com 
România 
ViiV Healthcare BV   
Tel: + 40800672524 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ireland 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4955000 
Ísland 
Vistor hf.  
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l  
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741600 
Κύπρος 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Τηλ: + 357 80070017 
Latvija 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 371 80205045 
Slovenija 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 386 80688869 
Slovenská republika 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 421 800500589 
Suomi/Finland 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)10 30 30 30 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 44 (0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com  
This leaflet was last revised in {month YYYY}.  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
Triumeq 5 mg/60 mg/30 mg dispersible tablets  
dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
- 
-     This medicine has been prescribed for a child in your care. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as those of the child you are caring for. 
- 
If the child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Triumeq is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Triumeq  
3.  How to take Triumeq 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Triumeq 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
7.  Step-by-step instructions for use 
1.  What Triumeq is and what it is used for 
Triumeq is a medicine that contains three active substances used to treat HIV infection: abacavir, 
lamivudine and dolutegravir. Abacavir and lamivudine belong to a group of anti-retroviral medicines 
(medicines used to treat HIV infection) called nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
(NRTIs), and dolutegravir belongs to a group of anti-retroviral medicines called integrase inhibitors 
(INIs). 
Triumeq is used to treat HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) infection in children who weigh at 
least 14 kg and less than 25 kg. 
Before the child you are caring for is prescribed Triumeq your doctor will arrange a test to find out 
whether they carry a particular type of gene called HLA-B*5701. Triumeq should not be used in 
patients who are known to carry the HLA-B*5701 gene. Patients with this gene are at a high risk of 
developing a serious hypersensitivity (allergic) reaction if they use Triumeq (see ‘hypersensitivity 
reactions’ in section 4). 
Triumeq does not cure HIV infection; it reduces the amount of virus in your body, and keeps it at a 
low level. It also increases the number of CD4 cells in your blood. CD4 cells are a type of white blood 
cells that are important in helping your body to fight infection. 
Not everyone responds to treatment with Triumeq in the same way. Your doctor will monitor the 
effectiveness of the child’s treatment. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Triumeq 
Do not use Triumeq  
• 
if the child you are caring for is allergic (hypersensitive) to dolutegravir, abacavir (or any 
other medicine containing abacavir), or lamivudine, or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Carefully read all the information about hypersensitivity reactions in Section 4. 
If the child you are caring for is taking a medicine called fampridine (also known as 
dalfampridine; used in multiple sclerosis). 
→ If you think any of these apply to the child, tell your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
IMPORTANT — Hypersensitivity reactions 
Triumeq contains abacavir and dolutegravir. Both of these active substances can cause a serious 
allergic reaction known as a hypersensitivity reaction. The child you are caring for should never take 
abacavir or abacavir-containing products again if they have a hypersensitivity reaction: it can be life 
threatening. 
You must carefully read all the information under ‘Hypersensitivity reactions’ in the panel in 
Section 4. 
The Triumeq pack includes an Alert Card to remind you and medical staff about hypersensitivity. 
Detach this card and keep it with you at all times. 
Take special care with Triumeq  
Some people taking Triumeq or other combination treatments for HIV are more at risk of serious side 
effects than others. You need to be aware of the extra risks: 
• 
• 
• 
if the child you are caring for has moderate or severe liver disease 
if the child you are caring for has ever had liver disease, including hepatitis B or C (if the child 
has hepatitis B infection, don’t stop Triumeq without your doctor’s advice, as their hepatitis may 
come back)  
if the child you are caring for has a kidney problem 
→ Talk to your doctor if any of these apply to the child before using Triumeq. They may 
need extra check-ups, including blood tests, while they are taking the medicine. See Section 4 for 
more information.  
Abacavir hypersensitivity reactions 
Even patients who don’t have the HLA-B*5701 gene may still develop a hypersensitivity reaction (a 
serious allergic reaction). 
→ Carefully read all the information about hypersensitivity reactions in Section 4 of this 
leaflet. 
Risk of cardiovascular events  
It cannot be excluded that abacavir may increase the risk of having cardiovascular events. 
→ Tell your doctor if the child you are caring for has cardiovascular problems, if they smoke, or 
have other illnesses that may increase their risk of cardiovascular diseases such as high blood 
pressure or diabetes. Don’t stop giving Triumeq unless your doctor advises you to do so. 
Look out for important symptoms  
Some people taking medicines for HIV infection develop other conditions, which can be serious. 
These include:  
• 
• 
symptoms of infections and inflammation 
joint pain, stiffness and bone problems 
You need to know about important signs and symptoms to look out for while you’re giving Triumeq.  
→ Read the information ‘Other possible side effects of combination therapy for HIV’ in 
Section 4 of this leaflet.  
Children 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine is not for children weighing less than 14 kg because the dose of each component of this 
medicine cannot be adjusted to their weight.  
Children must keep planned doctor’s appointments (see Section 3, How to give Triumeq, for more 
information). 
Other medicines and Triumeq 
Tell your doctor if the child you are caring for is taking, has recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Some medicines can affect how Triumeq works, or make it more likely that you will have side effects.  
Triumeq can also affect how some other medicines work.  
Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the medicines in the following list: 
•  metformin, to treat diabetes 
•  medicines called antacids, to treat indigestion and heartburn. Do not take an antacid 
• 
during the 6 hours before you take Triumeq, or for at least 2 hours after you take it. (See also 
Section 3). 
supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or magnesium. If you take Triumeq 
with food, you can take supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or magnesium 
at the same time as Triumeq. If you do not take Triumeq with food, do not take 
supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or magnesium during the 6 hours 
before you take Triumeq, or for at least 2 hours after you take it (see also Section 3). 
•  emtricitabine, etravirine, efavirenz, nevirapine or tipranavir/ritonavir, to treat HIV infection 
•  medicines (usually liquids) containing sorbitol and other sugar alcohols (such as xylitol, 
mannitol, lactitol or maltitol), if taken regularly 
rifampicin, to treat tuberculosis (TB) and other bacterial infections 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, an antibiotic to treat bacterial infections 
•  other medicines containing lamivudine, used to treat HIV infection or hepatitis B infection 
•  cladribine, used to treat hairy cell leukaemia 
• 
• 
•  phenytoin and phenobarbital, to treat epilepsy 
•  oxcarbazepine and carbamazepine, to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorder 
•  St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal remedy to treat depression 
•  methadone, used as a heroin substitute.  Abacavir increases the rate at which methadone is 
removed from the body. If you are taking methadone, you will be checked for any withdrawal 
symptoms. Your methadone dose may need to be changed 
  → Tell your doctor or pharmacist if the child you are caring for is taking any of these. Your 
doctor may decide to adjust the child’s dose or that the child needs extra checkups. 
Pregnancy  
Patients who are pregnant, think they may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby:  
→ Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking Triumeq.  
Taking Triumeq at the time of becoming pregnant or during the first six weeks of pregnancy, may 
increase the risk of a type of birth defect, called neural tube defect, such as spina bifida (malformed 
spinal cord).  
Patients who could get pregnant while receiving Triumeq:  
→ Talk to your doctor and discuss whether there is a need for contraception, such as condom 
or pills.  
Tell your doctor immediately if you become pregnant or are planning to become pregnant. Your 
doctor will review your treatment. Do not stop taking Triumeq without consulting your doctor, as this 
may harm you and your unborn child.  
Breast-feeding  
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. 
A small amount of the ingredients in Triumeq can also pass into your breast milk. 
If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss it with your doctor as 
soon as possible.  
Driving and using machines  
Triumeq can make you dizzy and have other side effects that make you less alert. 
→ Don’t drive or operate machinery unless you are sure your alertness has not been affected.  
Triumeq contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dispersible tablet, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to give Triumeq 
Always give this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
Your doctor will decide on the correct dose of Triumeq for the child you are caring for, depending on 
the weight of the child.  
If the child you are caring for weighs less than 14 kg, Triumeq is not suitable for the child, because it 
is not known if Triumeq is safe and effective. Your doctor should prescribe the components separately 
for the child. 
Triumeq can be given with or without food. 
The dispersible tablets must be dispersed in drinking water. The tablets should be fully dispersed 
before swallowing. Do not chew, cut or crush the tablets  
Children’s dose of Triumeq needs to be adjusted as they gain weight. 
→ 
It is important therefore that children keep planned doctor’s appointments. 
Triumeq is available as film-coated and dispersible tablets. Film-coated tablets and dispersible tablets 
are not the same. Therefore, you should not switch between film-coated tablets and dispersible tablets 
without first talking to your doctor. 
Do not give an antacid during the 6 hours before you give Triumeq, or for at least 2 hours after you 
give it.  Other acid-lowering medicines like ranitidine and omeprazole can be taken at the same time as 
Triumeq.  
 → Talk to your doctor for further advice on taking antacid medicines with Triumeq. 
If you give Triumeq with food, you can give supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, 
iron or magnesium at the same time as Triumeq. If you do not give Triumeq with food, do not give 
a supplement or multivitamin containing calcium, iron or magnesium during the 6 hours before you 
give Triumeq, or for at least 2 hours after you give it. 
→Talk to your doctor for further advice on taking supplements or multivitamins containing 
calcium, iron or magnesium with Triumeq. 
If you give more Triumeq than you should  
If you give too many dispersible tablets of Triumeq, contact your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
If possible, show them the Triumeq pack. 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to give Triumeq  
If you miss a dose, give it as soon as you remember.  But if the next dose is due within 4 hours, skip 
the dose you missed and give the next one at the usual time. Then continue the child’s treatment as 
before.  
→ Don't give a double dose to make up for a missed dose. 
If you have stopped giving Triumeq 
If you have stopped giving Triumeq to the child for any reason — especially because you think they 
are having side effects, or because they have another illness: 
Talk to your doctor before you start giving it again. Your doctor will check whether the child’s 
symptoms were related to a hypersensitivity reaction. If the doctor thinks they may be related to a 
hypersensitivity reaction, you will be told never again to give Triumeq, or any other medicine 
containing abacavir or dolutegravir. It is important that you follow this advice. 
If your doctor advises that you can start giving Triumeq again, you may be asked to give the first 
doses in a place where the child will have ready access to medical care if they need it. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
When the child is being treated for HIV, it can be hard to tell whether a symptom is a side effect of 
Triumeq or other medicines they are taking, or an effect of the HIV disease itself. So it is very 
important to talk to your doctor about any changes in the child’s health. 
Abacavir can cause a hypersensitivity reaction (a serious allergic reaction), especially in people 
who carry a particular type of gene called HLA-B*5701. Even patients who don’t have the HLA-
B*5701 gene may still develop a hypersensitivity reaction, described in this leaflet in the panel 
headed ‘Hypersensitivity reactions’. It is very important that you read and understand the 
information about this serious reaction. 
As well as the side effects listed below for Triumeq, other conditions can develop during 
combination therapy for HIV.  
It is important to read the information in this section under the heading ‘Other possible side effects 
of combination therapy for HIV’. 
Hypersensitivity reactions  
Triumeq contains abacavir and dolutegravir. Both of these active substances can cause a serious 
allergic reaction known as a hypersensitivity reaction.  
These hypersensitivity reactions have been seen more frequently in people taking medicines that 
contain abacavir.  
Who gets these reactions? 
Anyone taking Triumeq could develop a hypersensitivity reaction, which could be life threatening if 
they continue to take Triumeq. 
The child is more likely to develop this reaction if they have a gene called HLA-B*5701 (but they can 
get a reaction even if they don’t have this gene). The child you are caring for should have been tested 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for this gene before Triumeq was prescribed for them. If you know they have this gene, tell your 
doctor. 
What are the symptoms? 
The most common symptoms are: 
fever (high temperature) and skin rash. 
Other common symptoms are: 
nausea (feeling sick), vomiting (being sick), diarrhoea, abdominal (stomach) pain, severe tiredness. 
Other symptoms include: 
pains in the joints or muscles, swelling of the neck, shortness of breath, sore throat, cough, occasional 
headaches, inflammation of the eye (conjunctivitis), mouth ulcers, low blood pressure, tingling or 
numbness of the hands or feet. 
When do these reactions happen? 
Hypersensitivity reactions can start at any time during treatment with Triumeq, but are more likely 
during the first 6 weeks of treatment. 
Contact your doctor immediately: 
1 
2 
if the child gets a skin rash, OR 
if the child gets symptoms from at least 2 of the following groups: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
fever  
shortness of breath, sore throat or cough 
nausea or vomiting, diarrhoea or abdominal pain 
severe tiredness or aches and pains, or generally feeling ill. 
Your doctor may advise you to stop giving Triumeq. 
If you have stopped giving Triumeq 
If you have stopped giving Triumeq to the child because of a hypersensitivity reaction, they must 
NEVER AGAIN take Triumeq, or any other medicine containing abacavir. If they do, within 
hours, their blood pressure could fall dangerously low, which could result in death. They should also 
never again take medicines containing dolutegravir. 
If the child has stopped taking Triumeq for any reason — especially because you think they are having 
side effects, or because they have other illness: 
Talk to your doctor before you start again. Your doctor will check whether the child’s symptoms 
were related to a hypersensitivity reaction. If the doctor thinks they may have been, you will then be 
told never again to give Triumeq, or any other medicine containing abacavir. You may also be 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
told never again to give any other medicine containing dolutegravir. It is important that you follow this 
advice. 
Occasionally, hypersensitivity reactions have developed in people who start taking abacavir containing 
products again, but who had only one symptom on the Alert Card before they stopped taking it. 
Very rarely, patients who have taken medicines containing abacavir in the past without any symptoms 
of hypersensitivity have developed a hypersensitivity reaction when they start taking these medicines 
again.  
If your doctor advises that you can start giving Triumeq again, you may be asked to give the first 
doses in a place where the child will have ready access to medical care if you need it. 
If the child is hypersensitive to Triumeq, return all the unused Triumeq tablets for safe disposal. Ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
The Triumeq pack includes an Alert Card, to remind you and medical staff about hypersensitivity 
reactions. Detach this card and keep it with you at all times. 
Very common side effects  
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
•  headache 
•  diarrhoea 
•  feeling sick (nausea)  
•  difficulty in sleeping (insomnia) 
•  lack of energy (fatigue) 
Common side effects  
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
•  hypersensitivity reaction (see ‘Hypersensitivity reactions’ earlier in this section) 
•  loss of appetite 
•  rash 
•  itching (pruritus) 
•  being sick (vomiting) 
•  stomach (abdominal) pain 
•  stomach (abdominal) discomfort 
•  weight gain 
•  indigestion 
•  wind (flatulence) 
•  dizziness 
•  abnormal dreams 
•  nightmares 
•  depression (feelings of deep sadness and unworthiness) 
•  anxiety 
•  tiredness 
•  feeling drowsy 
•  fever (high temperature) 
•  cough 
•  irritated or runny nose 
•  hair loss 
•  muscle pain and discomfort 
•  joint pain 
•  feeling weak 
•  general feeling of being unwell 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects that may show up in blood tests are: 
•  an increase in the level of liver enzymes 
Uncommon side effects  
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people: 
•  inflammation of the liver (hepatitis)  
•  suicidal thoughts and behaviours (particularly in patients who have had depression or mental 
health problems before) 
•  panic attack 
Uncommon side effects that may show up in blood tests are: 
•  a decreased number of cells involved in blood clotting (thrombocytopenia). 
•  a low red blood cell count (anaemia) or low white blood cell count (neutropenia) 
•  an increase in sugar (glucose) in the blood 
•  an increase in triglycerides (type of fat) in the blood 
Rare side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 1000 people: 
• 
•  breakdown of muscle tissue 
• 
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) 
liver failure (signs may include yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes or unusually dark 
urine). 
•  suicide (particularly in patients who have had depression or mental health problems before) 
→  Tell your doctor immediately if you experience any mental health problems (see also other 
mental health problems above). 
Rare side effects that may show up in blood tests are: 
• 
increase in bilirubin (a test of liver function) 
• 
increase in an enzyme called amylase. 
Very rare side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people: 
•  numbness, tingly feelings in the skin (pins and needles) 
• 
• 
sensation of weakness in the limbs 
skin rash, which may form blisters and looks like small targets (central dark spots surrounded by a 
paler area, with a dark ring around the edge) (erythema multiforme) 
a widespread rash with blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, nose, eyes and 
genitals (Stevens–Johnson syndrome), and a more severe form causing skin peeling in more than 
30% of the body surface (toxic epidermal necrolysis) 
lactic acidosis (excess lactic acid in the blood). 
• 
• 
Very rare side effects that may show up in blood tests are:  
• 
a failure of the bone marrow to produce new red blood cells (pure red cell aplasia).  
If the child you are caring for gets any side effects 
→ Talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. 
Other possible side effects of combination therapy for HIV 
Combination therapy such as Triumeq may cause other conditions to develop during HIV treatment. 
Symptoms of infection and inflammation  
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
People with advanced HIV infection or AIDS have weak immune systems, and are more likely to 
develop serious infections (opportunistic infections). Such infections may have been “silent” and not 
detected by the weak immune system before treatment was started. After starting treatment, the 
immune system becomes stronger, and may attack the infections, which can cause symptoms of 
infection or inflammation. Symptoms usually include fever, plus some of the following: 
•  headache 
•  stomach ache 
•  difficulty breathing 
In rare cases, as the immune system becomes stronger, it can also attack healthy body tissue 
(autoimmune disorders).  The symptoms of autoimmune disorders may develop many months after the 
child starts taking medicine to treat their HIV infection. Symptoms may include: 
•  palpitations (rapid or irregular heartbeat) or tremor 
•  hyperactivity (excessive restlessness and movement)  
•  weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of the body. 
If the child gets any symptoms of infection and inflammation or if you notice any of the symptoms 
above: 
  → Tell your doctor immediately. Don’t give other medicines for the infection without your 
doctor’s advice. 
Joint pain, stiffness and bone problems 
Some people taking combination therapy for HIV develop a condition called osteonecrosis. In this 
condition, parts of the bone tissue die because of reduced blood supply to the bone. People may be 
more likely to get this condition: 
•  if they have been taking combination therapy for a long time 
•  if they are also taking anti-inflammatory medicines called corticosteroids 
•  if they drink alcohol 
•  if their immune systems are very weak 
•  if they are overweight. 
Signs of osteonecrosis include: 
• stiffness in the joints 
• aches and pains (especially in the hip, knee or shoulder) 
• difficulty moving. 
If you notice any of these symptoms: 
  → Tell your doctor. 
Weight, blood lipid and blood glucose effects  
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and lifestyle, and sometimes to the HIV medicines themselves. Your 
doctor will test for these changes.  
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Triumeq 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and bottle label after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Keep the bottle tightly closed. Do not 
remove the desiccant. Do not swallow the desiccant.   
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Triumeq contains  
-  The active substances are dolutegravir, abacavir and lamivudine. Each tablet contains dolutegravir 
sodium equivalent to 5 mg dolutegravir, 60 mg abacavir (as sulfate) and 30 mg lamivudine. 
-  The other ingredients are acesulfame potassium, crospovidone, mannitol (E421), microcrystalline 
cellulose, povidone, silicified microcrystalline cellulose (cellulose, microcrystalline; silica, 
colloidal anhydrous), sodium starch glycolate, sodium stearyl fumarate, strawberry cream 
flavour, sucralose, polyvinyl alcohol-part hydrolyzed, macrogol, talc, titanium dioxide (E171) 
and iron oxide yellow (E172). 
- 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dispersible tablet, that is to say   
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
What Triumeq looks like and contents of the pack 
Triumeq dispersible tablets are yellow, biconvex, capsule shaped tablets, debossed with “SV WTU” 
on one side. 
The dispersible tablets are provided in bottles containing 90 tablets.   
The bottle contains a desiccant to reduce moisture. Once the bottle has been opened keep the desiccant 
in the bottle, do not remove it.  
A dosing cup is supplied with the pack 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
ViiV Healthcare BV, Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55H, 3811 LP Amersfoort, Netherlands. 
Manufacturer  
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A., Avda. Extremadura 3, 09400 Aranda De Duero, Burgos, Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
ViiV Healthcare srl/bv  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 65 00 
България 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Teл.: + 359 80018205 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 001 111 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
Lietuva 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 370 80000334 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
ViiV Healthcare srl/bv  
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 65 00 
Magyarország 
ViiV Healthcare BV Tel.: + 36 80088309 
Malta 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 356 80065004 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Deutschland 
ViiV Healthcare GmbH  
Tel.: + 49 (0)89 203 0038-10  
viiv.med.info@viivhealthcare.com  
Eesti 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 372 8002640 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
España 
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L.  
Tel: + 34 900 923 501  
es-ci@viivhealthcare.com 
France 
ViiV Healthcare SAS  
Tél.: + 33 (0)1 39 17 69 69 
Infomed@viivhealthcare.com 
Hrvatska 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 385 800787089 
Ireland 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4955000 
Ísland 
Vistor hf.  
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l  
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741600 
Κύπρος 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Τηλ: + 357 80070017 
Latvija 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 371 80205045 
Nederland 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 31 (0)33 2081199 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 97075 0 
at.info@gsk.com 
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 576 9000 
Portugal 
VIIVHIV HEALTHCARE, UNIPESSOAL, LDA  
Tel: + 351 21 094 08 01  
viiv.fi.pt@viivhealthcare.com 
România 
ViiV Healthcare BV   
Tel: + 40800672524 
Slovenija 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 386 80688869 
Slovenská republika 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 421 800500589 
Suomi/Finland 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)10 30 30 30 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
ViiV Healthcare BV  
Tel: + 44 (0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com  
This leaflet was last revised in {month YYYY}.  
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
115 
 
 
 
7. Step-by-step instructions 
Read the Instructions for Use before giving a dose of medicine. 
Follow the steps, using clean drinking water to prepare and give a dose to a child. 
Important information 
Always give this medicine exactly as your healthcare provider tells you. Talk to your healthcare provider if you are not 
sure. 
Do not chew, cut, or crush the tablets. 
If you forget to give a dose of medicine, give it as soon as you remember. But if your next dose is due within 4 hours, 
skip the dose you missed and take the next one at the usual time. Then continue your treatment as before. Do not give 2 
doses at the same time or give more than your healthcare provider has prescribed. 
If your child does not or cannot take the full dose call your healthcare provider. 
If you give too much medicine, get emergency medical help right away. 
Cup 
Bottle 
.  
Your pack contains: 
•  A bottle containing 90 tablets. 
•  Dosing cup. 
You will also need: 
•  Clean drinking water. 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Getting ready 
. 
1. Pour water 
Water Volume Guide 
Number 
of tablets 
Volume 
of water 
5 
6 
20 mL 
20 mL 
•  Pour clean drinking water into the cup.  
The Water Volume Guide above shows the amount of water needed for the prescribed dose. 
Use drinking water only. 
•  Do not use any other drink or food to prepare the dose 
2. Prepare the medicine 
Swirl 1 to 2 
minutes 
•  Add the prescribed number of tablet(s) to the water.  
•  Swirl the cup gently for 1 to 2 minutes to disperse the tablet(s). The medicine will become cloudy. Take care not to 
spill any of the medicine.  
•  Check that the medicine is ready. If there are any lumps of tablet swirl the cup until they have gone. 
If you spill any medicine, clean up the spill.  
Throw away the rest of the prepared medicine and make a new dose.  
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You must give the dose of medicine within 30 minutes of preparing the dose. If it has been more than 30 minutes 
wash away all the dose in the cup using water and prepare a new dose of medicine. 
Giving the medicine 
3. Give the medicine 
•  Make sure that the child is upright. Give all the prepared medicine to the child.  
•  Add another 15 mL or less of drinking water to the cup, swirl and give it all to the child.  
•  Repeat if any medicine remains to make sure the child gets the full dose. 
Cleaning 
4. Clean the dosing items 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Wash the cup with water. 
The cup will need to be cleaned before preparing the next dose. 
Storage information 
Keep the tablets in the bottle. Keep the bottle tightly closed. 
The bottle contains a desiccant canister which helps to keep the tablets dry. Do not eat the desiccant. Do not remove 
the desiccant. 
Keep all medicines out of reach of children. 
Disposal information 
When all the tablets in the bottle have been taken or are no longer needed, throw away the bottle and cup. Dispose of 
them using your local household waste guidelines. 
You will get a new cup in your next pack. 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisation(s) 
Annex IV 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for dolutegravir, dolutegravir / 
abacavir / lamivudine, dolutegravir / lamivudine, the scientific conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
In view of available data on cardiovascular events from the literature regarding abacavir, including a 
plausible  mechanism  of  action,  the  PRAC  considers  that  the  warnings  and  precautions  for  use  of 
products containing abacavir need to be revised to adequately reflect the current level of information 
on cardiovascular events and, in line with the current therapeutic guidelines, that a recommendation 
discouraging the use of abacavir containing products in patients with high cardiovascular risk should 
also be included in the  product information.  The  PRAC  concluded that  the  product information  of 
products containing abacavir as is the case of Triumeq (dolutegravir / abacavir / lamivudine) should 
be amended accordingly. 
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall 
conclusions and grounds for recommendation. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for dolutegravir, dolutegravir / abacavir / lamivudine, 
dolutegravir / lamivudine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal 
product(s) containing dolutegravir / abacavir / lamivudine is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation of Triumeq should be varied. 
121 
 
 
