ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Trodelvy 200 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial of powder contains 200 mg sacituzumab govitecan.  
After reconstitution, one mL of solution contains 10 mg sacituzumab govitecan. 
Sacituzumab govitecan is a Trop-2-directed antibody-drug conjugate (ADC). Sacituzumab is a 
humanised monoclonal antibody (hRS7 IgG1κ) that recognises Trop-2. The small molecule, SN-38, is 
a topoisomerase I inhibitor, which is covalently attached to the antibody by a hydrolysable linker. 
Approximately 7-8 molecules of SN-38 are attached to each antibody molecule. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Off-white to yellowish powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Trodelvy as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or 
metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC) who have received two or more prior systemic 
therapies, including at least one of them for advanced disease (see section 5.1). 
Trodelvy as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or 
metastatic hormone receptor (HR)-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer who have received 
endocrine-based therapy, and at least two additional systemic therapies in the advanced setting (see 
section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Trodelvy must only be prescribed and administered to patients by healthcare professionals experienced 
in the use of anti-cancer therapies and administered in an environment where full resuscitation 
facilities are available. 
Posology 
The recommended dose of sacituzumab govitecan is 10 mg/kg body weight administered as an 
intravenous infusion once weekly on Day 1 and Day 8 of 21-day treatment cycles. Treatment should 
be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prevention treatment 
Prior to each dose of sacituzumab govitecan, treatment for prevention of infusion-related reactions and 
prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is recommended (see section 4.4). 
Dose modifications for infusion-related reactions 
The infusion rate of sacituzumab govitecan should be slowed down or infusion interrupted if the 
patient develops an infusion-related reaction. Sacituzumab govitecan should be permanently 
discontinued if life-threatening infusion-related reactions occur (see section 4.4). 
Dose modifications for adverse reactions 
Dose modifications to manage adverse reactions of sacituzumab govitecan are described in Table 1. 
The sacituzumab govitecan dose should not be re-escalated after a dose reduction for adverse reactions 
has been made. 
Table 1: Recommended dose modifications for adverse reactions 
Adverse reaction 
Severe neutropenia 
Grade 4 neutropenia ≥ 7 days or less if clinically indicated, 
OR 
Grade 3-4 febrile neutropenia  
, 
OR 
At time of scheduled treatment, Grade 3-4 neutropenia which 
delays dosing by 2 or 3 weeks for recovery to ≤ Grade 1 
Occurrence 
Dose modification 
First 
Second 
Third 
Fourth 
Administer granulocyte-
colony stimulating factor 
(GCSF) as soon as 
clinically indicated  
25% dose reduction; 
administer G-CSF as soon 
as clinically indicated 
50% dose reduction; 
administer G-CSF as soon 
as clinically indicated  
Discontinue treatment; 
administer G-CSF as soon 
as clinically indicated 
Discontinue treatment; 
administer G-CSF as soon 
as clinically indicated 
At time of scheduled treatment, Grade 3-4 neutropenia which 
delays dosing beyond 3 weeks for recovery to ≤ Grade 1 
First 
Severe non-neutropenic toxicity 
Grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity of any duration,  
OR 
Any Grade 3-4 nausea, vomiting or diarrhoea due to treatment 
that is not controlled with antiemetics and anti-diarrhoeal agents, 
OR 
Other Grade 3-4 non-hematologic toxicity persisting > 48 hours 
despite optimal medical management, 
OR 
At time of scheduled treatment, Grade 3-4 non-neutropenic 
hematologic or non-hematologic toxicity, which delays dose by 2 
or 3 weeks for recovery to ≤ Grade 1 
In the event of Grade 3-4 non-neutropenic hematologic or non-
hematologic toxicity, Grade 3 nausea or Grade 3-4 vomiting, 
which does not recover to ≤ Grade 1 within 3 weeks  
First 
Second 
Third 
25% dose reduction 
50% dose reduction 
Discontinue treatment 
First 
Discontinue treatment 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in patients ≥ 65 years old. Data from sacituzumab govitecan in patients 
≥ 75 years are limited. 
Hepatic impairment 
No adjustment to the starting dose is required when administering sacituzumab govitecan to patients 
with mild hepatic impairment (bilirubin ≤ 1.5 upper limit of normal [ULN] and aspartate 
aminotransferase [AST]/alanine aminotransferase [ALT] < 3 ULN). 
The safety of sacituzumab govitecan in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment has not 
been established. Sacituzumab govitecan has not been studied in patients with any of the following: 
serum bilirubin > 1.5 ULN, or AST or ALT > 3 ULN in patients without liver metastases, or AST or 
ALT > 5 ULN in patients with liver metastases. The use of sacituzumab govitecan should be avoided 
in these patients. 
Renal impairment 
No adjustment to the starting dose is required when administering sacituzumab govitecan to patients 
with mild or moderate renal impairment. 
Sacituzumab govitecan has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage 
renal disease (Creatinine Clearance [CrCl] < 15 mL/min).  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan in children aged 0 to 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Sacituzumab govitecan is for intravenous use only. It must be reconstituted and diluted by a healthcare 
professional experienced in the handling of anti-cancer therapies. It must be administered as an 
intravenous infusion, not as an intravenous push or bolus. 
First infusion: the infusion should be administered over a period of 3 hours.  
Subsequent infusions: the infusion should be administered over a period of 1 to 2 hours if prior 
infusions were tolerated.  
Patients have to be observed during each infusion and for at least 30 minutes after each infusion for 
signs or symptoms of infusion-related reactions (see section 4.4).  
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see 
section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Neutropenia 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sacituzumab govitecan can cause severe or life-threatening neutropenia (see section 4.8). Fatal 
infections in the setting of neutropenia have been observed in clinical studies with sacituzumab 
govitecan. Sacituzumab govitecan should not be administered if the absolute neutrophil count is below 
1500/mm3 on Day 1 of any cycle or if the neutrophil count is below 1000/mm3 on Day 8 of any cycle. 
Therefore, it is recommended that patients’ blood counts are monitored as clinically indicated during 
treatment. Sacituzumab govitecan should not be administered in case of neutropenic fever. Treatment 
with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor and dose modifications may be required due to severe 
neutropenia (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Diarrhoea 
Sacituzumab govitecan can cause severe diarrhoea (see section 4.8). Diarrhoea in some cases was 
observed to have led to dehydration and subsequent acute kidney injury. Sacituzumab govitecan 
should not be administered in case of Grade 3-4 diarrhoea at the time of scheduled treatment and 
treatment should only be continued when resolved to ≤ Grade 1 (see section 4.2 and 4.8). At the onset 
of diarrhoea, and if no infectious cause can be identified, treatment with loperamide should be 
initiated. Additional supportive measures (e.g. fluid and electrolyte substitution) may also be 
employed as clinically indicated.  
Patients who exhibit an excessive cholinergic response to treatment with sacituzumab govitecan (e.g. 
abdominal cramping, diarrhoea, salivation, etc.) can receive appropriate treatment (e.g. atropine) for 
subsequent treatments with sacituzumab govitecan.  
Hypersensitivity 
Sacituzumab govitecan can cause severe and life-threatening hypersensitivity (see section 4.8). 
Anaphylactic reactions have been observed in clinical studies with sacituzumab govitecan and the use 
of sacituzumab govitecan is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to sacituzumab 
govitecan (see section 4.3). 
Pre-infusion treatment, including antipyretics, H1 and H2 blockers, or corticosteroids (e.g. 50 mg 
hydrocortisone or equivalent, orally or intravenously), for patients receiving sacituzumab govitecan is 
recommended. Patients should be closely observed for infusion-related reactions during each 
sacituzumab govitecan infusion and for at least 30 minutes after completion of each infusion. The 
infusion rate of sacituzumab govitecan should be slowed down or infusion interrupted if the patient 
develops an infusion-related reaction. Sacituzumab govitecan should be permanently discontinued if 
life-threatening infusion-related reactions occur (see section 4.2).  
Nausea and vomiting 
Sacituzumab govitecan is emetogenic (see section 4.8). Antiemetic preventive treatment with two or 
three medicinal products (e.g. dexamethasone with either a 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 [5-HT3] receptor 
antagonist or a Neurokinin-1 [NK-1] receptor antagonist as well as other medicinal products as 
indicated) is recommended for prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). 
Sacituzumab govitecan should not be administered in case of Grade 3 nausea or Grade 3-4 vomiting at 
the time of scheduled treatment administration and treatment should only be continued with additional 
supportive measures when resolved to ≤ Grade 1 (see section 4.2). Additional antiemetics and other 
supportive measures may also be employed as clinically indicated. All patients should be given take-
home medicinal products with clear instructions for prevention and treatment of nausea and vomiting. 
Use in patients with reduced UGT1A1 activity 
SN-38 (the small molecule moiety of sacituzumab govitecan) is metabolised via uridine 
diphosphate-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT1A1). Genetic variants of the UGT1A1 gene such as the 
UGT1A1*28 allele lead to reduced UGT1A1 enzyme activity. Individuals who are homozygous for 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UGT1A1*28 allele are at increased risk for neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, and anaemia and are at 
increased risk for other adverse reactions following initiation of sacituzumab govitecan treatment (see 
section 4.8). Approximately 20% of the Black population, 10% of the White population, and 2% of the 
East Asian population are homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele. Decreased function alleles other 
than UGT1A1*28 may be present in certain populations. Patients with known reduced UGT1A1 
activity should be closely monitored for adverse reactions. When unknown, no testing of UGT1A1 
status is required as the management of adverse reactions including the recommended dose 
modifications will be the same for all patients.  
Embryo-foetal toxicity 
Based on its mechanism of action, sacituzumab govitecan can cause teratogenicity and/or 
embryo-foetal lethality when administered to a pregnant woman. Sacituzumab govitecan contains a 
genotoxic component, SN-38, and targets rapidly dividing cells. Pregnant women and women of 
childbearing potential should be informed of the potential risk to the foetus. The pregnancy status of 
females of reproductive potential should be verified prior to the initiation of sacituzumab govitecan 
(see section 4.6).  
Sodium 
This medicinal product will be further prepared for administration with sodium-containing solution 
(see section 6.6) and this should be considered in relation to the total sodium intake to the patient from 
all sources per day. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed.  
UGT1A1 inhibitors 
Concomitant administration of sacituzumab govitecan with inhibitors of UGT1A1 may increase the 
incidence of adverse reactions due to potential increase in systemic exposure to SN-38. Sacituzumab 
govitecan should be used with caution in patients receiving UGT1A1 inhibitors (e.g. propofol, 
ketoconazole, EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors). 
UGT1A1 inducers 
Exposure to SN-38 may be reduced in patients concomitantly receiving UGT1A1 enzyme inducers. 
Sacituzumab govitecan should be used with caution in patients receiving UGT1A1 inducers (e.g. 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampicin, ritonavir, tipranavir).  
Based on the limited data available from patients who received UGT1A1 inhibitors (n=16) or inducers 
(n=5) while being treated with sacituzumab govitecan, free SN-38 exposures in these patients were 
comparable to those in patients who did not receive UGT1A1 inhibitor or inducer. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment and for 
6 months after the last dose.  
Male patients with female partners of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during 
treatment with sacituzumab govitecan and for 3 months after the last dose.  
Pregnancy 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no available data on the use of sacituzumab govitecan in pregnant women. However, based 
on its mechanism of action, sacituzumab govitecan can cause teratogenicity and/or embryo-foetal 
lethality when administered during pregnancy. Sacituzumab govitecan contains a genotoxic 
component, SN-38, and targets rapidly dividing cells.  
Sacituzumab govitecan should not be used during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of the 
woman requires treatment with sacituzumab govitecan.  
The pregnancy status of women of childbearing potential should be verified prior to the initiation of 
sacituzumab govitecan. 
Women who become pregnant must immediately contact their doctor.  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether sacituzumab govitecan or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to 
breastfed newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during 
treatment with sacituzumab govitecan and for 1 month after the last dose. 
Fertility 
Based on findings in animals, sacituzumab govitecan may impair fertility in females of reproductive 
potential (see section 5.3). No human data on the effect of sacituzumab govitecan on fertility are 
available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Sacituzumab govitecan has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines, e.g. dizziness, 
fatigue (see section 4.8).   
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions reported in patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan were: 
neutropenia (67.6%), nausea (62.6%), diarrhoea (62.5%), fatigue (61.5%), alopecia (45.6%), 
anaemia (40.7%), constipation (36.2%), vomiting (33.6%), decreased appetite (25.7%), dyspnoea 
(22.1%) and abdominal pain (20.2%).  
The most common grade 3 or higher adverse reactions were neutropenia (50.7%), leukopenia (10.5%), 
diarrhoea (10.3%), anaemia (9.3%), fatigue (6.8%), febrile neutropenia (6.1%), hypophosphataemia 
(4.2%), dyspnoea (3.1%), lymphopenia (2.9%), abdominal pain (2.8%), nausea (2.8%), vomiting 
(2.5%), hypokalaemia (2.5%), pneumonia (2.3%) and aspartate aminotransferase increased (2.2%). 
The most frequently reported serious adverse reactions in patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan 
were febrile neutropenia (4.8%), diarrhoea (3.9%), neutropenia (2.6%) and pneumonia (2%).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequencies of adverse reactions are based on pooled data from three clinical studies involving 
688 patients who received sacituzumab govitecan 10 mg/kg body weight for the treatment of 
metastatic TNBC and HR+/HER2- breast cancer. The median exposure to sacituzumab govitecan in 
this data set was 4.63 months. 
The adverse reaction frequencies are based on all-cause adverse event frequencies, where a proportion 
of the events for an adverse reaction may have other causes than sacituzumab govitecan, such as the 
disease, other medicinal products or unrelated causes. The severity of adverse drug reactions was 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
assessed based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), defining 
grade 1 = mild, grade 2 = moderate, grade 3 = severe, grade 4 = life threatening, and 5 = death.  
Adverse reactions are listed by System Organ Class and frequency category. Frequency categories are 
defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); 
rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Table 2: List of adverse reactions  
System organ class (SOC) 
Infections and infestations 
Frequency 
Adverse reactions 
Very common  
Common  
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common  
Common  
Urinary tract infection 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Sepsis  
Pneumonia 
Influenza 
Bronchitis 
Nasopharyngitis 
Sinusitis 
Oral herpes 
Neutropenia1 
Anaemia2 
Leukopenia3 
Lymphopenia4 
Febrile neutropenia 
Thrombocytopenia5 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common  
Hypersensitivity6 
Very common  
Common  
Decreased appetite 
Hypokalaemia 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Dehydration 
Hyperglycaemia  
Hypophosphataemia 
Hypocalcaemia  
Hyponatraemia 
Very common  
Common  
Insomnia 
Anxiety 
Very common  
Common  
Headache 
Dizziness 
Dysgeusia 
Common  
Hypotension 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common  
Common  
Dyspnoea7 
Cough  
Epistaxis 
Productive cough 
Rhinorrhoea 
Nasal congestion 
Upper airway cough syndrome 
Very common  
Diarrhoea  
Vomiting 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Very common  
Common  
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Very common  
Common  
Common 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Very common  
Common  
Common 
Nausea 
Constipation 
Abdominal Pain 
Neutropenic colitis8  
Colitis 
Stomatitis 
Abdominal pain upper 
Dyspepsia 
Gastrooesophageal reflux disease 
Abdominal distension  
Enteritis 
Alopecia  
Rash 
Pruritus 
Rash maculopapular 
Skin hyperpigmentation 
Dermatitis acneiform  
Dry skin 
Back pain 
Arthralgia 
Musculoskeletal chest pain 
Muscle spasms 
Haematuria 
Proteinuria 
Dysuria 
Fatigue9 
Pain 
Chills 
Weight decreased  
Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 
Activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged 
Blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Uncommon 
Infusion related reaction 
1: Includes the following preferred terms: neutropenia; neutrophil count decreased.  
2: Includes the following preferred terms: anaemia; haemoglobin decreased; red blood cell count decreased.  
3: Includes the following preferred terms: leukopenia; white blood cell count decreased.  
4: Includes the following preferred terms: lymphopenia; lymphocyte count decreased.  
5: Includes the following preferred terms: thrombocytopenia; platelet count decreased.  
6: Hypersensitivity events reported up to the end of the day after treatment was administered. Includes events coded to the 
following preferred terms: dyspnoea; hypotension; flushing; erythema; chest discomfort; rhinitis allergic; wheezing; 
oedema; urticaria; anaphylactic reaction; mouth ulceration; skin exfoliation; swollen tongue; throat tightness 
7: Includes the following preferred terms: dyspnoea; dyspnoea exertional  
8: Includes the preferred term of neutropenic colitis and events reported as typhlitis 
9: Includes the following preferred terms: fatigue, asthenia 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Neutropenia 
The median time to onset of neutropenia (including febrile neutropenia) following the start of the first 
treatment cycle was 16 days. The median duration of neutropenia was 8 days. 
Neutropenia occurred in 67.6% (465/688) of patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan, including 
Grade 3-4 neutropenia in 50.7% of patients. Neutropenia was the reason for dose reduction in 12.4% 
of patients. Neutropenic colitis was observed in 1% (7/688) of patients.   
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Febrile neutropenia occurred in 6.1% (42/688) of patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan. Febrile 
neutropenia was the reason for dose reduction in 2.9% of patients.  
Use in patients with reduced UGT1A1 activity 
The incidence of Grade 3-4 neutropenia was 60.6% (43/71) in patients homozygous for the 
UGT1A1*28 allele, 52.9% (144/272) in patients heterozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele, and 49.1% 
(140/285) in patients homozygous for the wild-type allele. The incidence of Grade 3-4 febrile 
neutropenia was 14.1% (10/71) in patients homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele, 5.9% (16/272) in 
patients heterozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele, and 4.6% (13/285) in patients homozygous for the 
wild-type allele. The incidence of Grade 3-4 anaemia was 15.5% (11/71) in patients homozygous for 
the UGT1A1*28 allele, 7.4% (20/272) in patients heterozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele, and 8.1% 
(23/285) in patients homozygous for the wild-type allele. 
Compared to patients homozygous for the wild-type allele, earlier median onset of neutropenia and 
anaemia was observed in patients homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele and in patients heterozygous 
for the UGT1A1*28 allele. 
Diarrhoea 
The median time to onset of diarrhoea following the start of the first treatment cycle was 13 days. The 
median duration of diarrhoea was 8 days. 
Diarrhoea occurred in 62.5% (430/688) of patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan. Grade 3 events 
occurred in 10.3% (71/688) of patients. Three of 688 patients (< 1%) discontinued treatment because 
of diarrhoea.  
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity reactions reported up to the end of the day following dosing occurred in 
33.0% (227/688) of patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan. Grade 3 and above hypersensitivity 
occurred in 1.7% (12/688) of patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan. The incidence of 
hypersensitivity reactions leading to permanent discontinuation of sacituzumab govitecan was 
0.1% (1/688).  
Immunogenicity 
Across clinical studies in patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan, 9 (1.1%) of 785 patients 
developed antibodies to sacituzumab govitecan; 6 of these patients (0.8% of all patients treated with 
sacituzumab govitecan) had neutralizing antibodies against sacituzumab govitecan.  
Special Populations 
There was no difference in discontinuation rate due to adverse events in patients aged 65 years or older 
compared with younger patients with mTNBC. There was a higher discontinuation rate due to adverse 
reactions in patients aged 65 years or older (14%) compared with younger patients (3%) with 
HR+/HER2- metastatic breast cancer. There was a higher incidence rate of serious adverse events in 
patients aged 75 years or older (67%) compared to patients aged 65 years or older (43%) and patients 
younger than 65 years (24%) with HR+/HER2- metastatic breast cancer.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In clinical studies, doses of up to 18 mg/kg (approximately 1.8 times the maximum recommended 
dose of 10 mg/kg body weight) led to a higher incidence of severe neutropenia. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In case of overdose, patients should be closely monitored for signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, 
in particular severe neutropenia, and appropriate treatment instituted. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antineoplastic agents, monoclonal antibodies and antibody drug 
conjugates, other monoclonal antibodies, ATC code: L01FX17. 
Mechanism of action 
Sacituzumab govitecan binds to Trop-2-expressing cancer cells and is internalised with the subsequent 
release of SN-38 from a hydrolysable linker. SN-38 interacts with topoisomerase I and prevents 
re-ligation of topoisomerase I-induced single strand breaks. The resulting DNA damage leads to 
apoptosis and cell death.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Unresectable or metastatic Triple Negative Breast Cancer (ASCENT) 
The efficacy and safety of sacituzumab govitecan was assessed in ASCENT (IMMU-132-05), an 
international Phase 3, multicentre, open-label, randomised study conducted in 529 patients with 
unresectable locally advanced or metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC) who had relapsed 
after at least two prior chemotherapies (no upper limit) for breast cancer. Earlier adjuvant or 
neoadjuvant therapy for more limited disease qualified as one of the required prior regimens if the 
development of unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic disease occurred within a 12-month 
period of time after completion of chemotherapy. All patients received previous taxane treatment in 
either the adjuvant, neoadjuvant, or advanced stage unless they had a contraindication or were 
intolerant to taxanes. Poly-ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors were allowed as one of the two 
prior chemotherapies for patients with a documented germline BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation. 
Patients were randomised (1:1) to receive sacituzumab govitecan 10 mg/kg as an intravenous infusion 
on Day 1 and Day 8 of a 21-day treatment cycle or Treatment of Physician’s Choice (TPC) which was 
dosed based on body surface area and per the approved product information. TPC was determined by 
the investigator before randomisation from one of the following single-agent regimens: eribulin 
(n = 139), capecitabine (n = 33), gemcitabine (n = 38), or vinorelbine (except if patient had ≥ Grade 2 
neuropathy, n = 52). Patients with stable brain metastases (pre-treated, non-progressive, without anti-
seizure medicinal products and on stable corticosteroid dose for at least 2 weeks) were eligible. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine brain metastases was required only for patients with 
known or suspected brain metastases. Patients with known Gilbert’s disease, bone-only disease, 
known history of unstable angina, myocardial infarction, or congestive heart failure, active chronic 
inflammatory bowel disease or gastrointestinal (GI) perforation, human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV), active hepatitis B or C infection, live vaccine within 30 days, or who have previously received 
irinotecan were excluded. 
Patients were treated until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The primary efficacy endpoint 
was progression-free survival (PFS) in patients without brain metastases at baseline (i.e. BMNeg) as 
measured by a blinded, independent, centralised review (BICR) group of radiology experts using 
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) v1.1 criteria. Secondary efficacy endpoints 
included PFS by BICR for the overall population, including all patients with and without brain 
metastases, overall survival (OS), objective response rate (ORR) and duration of response (DOR). 
The primary analysis included 235 BMNeg patients in the sacituzumab govitecan group and 
233 BMNeg patients in the TPC group. The analysis of the overall population included 267 patients in 
the sacituzumab govitecan group and 262 patients in the TPC group.  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The demographics and baseline characteristics of the overall population (n = 529) were: median age of 
54 years (range: 27–82 years) and 81% < 65 years; 99.6% female; 79% White; 12% Black; median 
number of prior systemic therapies was 4; 69% had previously received 2 to 3 prior chemotherapies; 
31% had previously received > 3 prior chemotherapies; 42% had hepatic metastases; 12% had present 
or a history of brain metastases. 8% were BRCA1/BRCA2 mutational status positive; BRCA status 
was available for 339 patients. At study entry, all patients had an ECOG performance status of 0 
(43%) or 1 (57%). The median time from diagnosis of Stage 4 to study entry was 16.2 months (range: 
-0.4 to 202.9 months). The most frequent prior chemotherapies were cyclophosphamide (83%), 
anthracycline (83%) including doxorubicin (53%), paclitaxel (78%), carboplatin (65%), capecitabine 
(67%), gemcitabine (36%), docetaxel (35%), and eribulin (33%). Overall, 29% of patients had 
received prior PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. Thirteen percent of patients in the sacituzumab govitecan group in 
the overall population received only 1 prior line of systemic therapy in the metastatic setting. 
The efficacy results in the BMNeg population showed a statistical significant improvement of 
sacituzumab govitecan over TPC in PFS and OS with hazard ratios (HR) of 0.41 (n=468; 95% CI: 
0.32, 0.52; p-value: <0.0001) and 0.48 (n=468; 95% CI: 0.38, 0.59; p-value: <0.0001), respectively. 
The median PFS was 5.6 months vs 1.7 months; the median OS was 12.1 months vs 6.7 months, in 
patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan and TPC, respectively. 
The efficacy results in the overall population were consistent with the BMNeg population in the pre-
specified final analysis (11 March 2020 cut-off date) and are summarised in Table 3. 
12 
 
 
 
Table 3: Efficacy endpoints (overall population) - Pre-specified Final Analysis 
Pre-specified Final Analysis 
(11 March 2020 cut-off date) 
Sacituzumab govitecan  
n=267 
Treatment of physician’s 
choice (TPC) 
n=262 
190 (71.2) 
4.8 
(4.1,5.8) 
179 (67.0) 
11.8 
(10.5, 13.8) 
0.43 (0.35, 0.54) 
<0.0001 
171 (65.3) 
1.7 
(1.5, 2.5) 
206 (78.6) 
6.9 
(5.9, 7.7) 
Progression-free survival1 
Number of events (%) 
Median PFS in months (95% CI) 
  Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
  p-value2 
Overall Survival 
Number of deaths (%) 
Median OS in months (95% CI) 
83 (31) 
0.51 (0.41, 0.62) 
<0.0001 
  Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
  p-value2 
Overall response rate (ORR) 
Number of responders (%) 
  Odds ratio (95% CI) 
  p-value3 
Complete response, n (%) 
Partial response, n (%) 
Duration of response (DOR) 
Median DOR in months 
(95% CI) 
1  PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first radiological disease progression  
      or death due to any cause, whichever comes first. 
2  Stratified log-rank test adjusted for stratification factors: number of prior chemotherapies, presence of known  
10.99 (5.66, 21.36) 
<0.0001 
3.6 
(2.8, NE) 
6.3 
(5.5, 9.0) 
10 (4) 
73 (27) 
2 (1) 
9 (3) 
11 (4) 
brain metastases at study entry, and region. 
3  Based on Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. 
CI = Confidence Interval 
In an updated efficacy analysis (final database lock 25 February 2021), results were consistent with the 
pre-specified final analysis. The median PFS by BICR was 4.8 months vs 1.7 months, in patients 
treated with sacituzumab govitecan and TPC, respectively (HR of 0.41; 95% CI: 0.33, 0.52). The 
median OS was 11.8 months vs 6.9 months, respectively (HR of 0.51; 95% CI: 0.42, 0.63). Kaplan-
Meier curves for updated PFS by BICR and OS are presented in Figures 1 and 2. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Progression free survival (overall population; final database lock 25 February 2021) 
by BICR   
)
%
(
S
F
P
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Trodelvy 
TPC 
Censored 
Number of Patients at Risk 
Trodelvy 
TPC 
267 
262 
184 
86 
135 
36 
82 
12 
55 
6 
34 
3 
23 
1 
17 
1 
11 
0 
8 
0 
5 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
Time (months) 
Figure 2: Overall survival (overall population; final database lock 25 February 2021)  
)
%
(
S
O
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Trodelvy 
TPC 
Censored 
Number of Patients at Risk 
Trodelvy 
TPC 
267 
262 
250 
222 
232 
174 
209 
132 
178 
101 
152 
66 
125 
54 
108 
45 
79 
34 
62 
31 
49 
26 
37 
12 
25 
7 
14 
3 
7 
2 
2 
0 
0 
0 
Time (months) 
Sub-group analysis 
In subgroup analyses, improvements in PFS and OS in patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan 
compared to TPC were consistent across patient subgroups irrespective of age, race, BRCA status, 
prior number of systemic therapies overall (2 and >2, 2-3 and >3) and in the metastatic setting (1 and 
>1), prior therapy with anthracycline or PDL1, and liver metastases. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brain metastases 
An exploratory analysis of PFS and OS in patients with previously treated, stable brain metastases 
showed a stratified HR of 0.65 (n=61; 95% CI: 0.35, 1.22) and 0.87 (n=61; 95% CI: 0.47, 1.63), 
respectively. The median PFS was 2.8 months vs 1.6 months; the median OS was 6.8 months vs 7.5 
months, in patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan and TPC, respectively. 
Trop-2 expression 
Additional subgroup analyses were conducted to evaluate the efficacy by tumour Trop-2 expression 
levels and the results were consistent across the different scoring methods used. In patients with low 
Trop-2 levels using membrane H-score by quartiles, benefit of sacituzumab govitecan over TPC was 
shown for both PFS (HR 0.64; 95% CI: 0.37, 1.11) and OS (HR of 0.71; 95% CI: 0.42, 1.21). 
Unresectable or metastatic hormone receptor (HR)-positive/human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 (HER2)-negative breast cancer (TROPiCS-02) 
The efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan was evaluated in a multicentre, open-label, randomised study 
TROPiCS-02 (IMMU-132-09) conducted in 543 patients with unresectable locally advanced or 
metastatic HR-positive, HER2-negative (IHC 0, IHC 1+, or IHC 2+/ISH-) breast cancer whose disease 
has progressed after the following in any setting: a CDK 4/6 inhibitor, endocrine therapy, and a 
taxane; patients received at least two prior chemotherapies in the metastatic setting (one of which 
could be in the neoadjuvant or adjuvant setting if progression or recurrence occurred within 12 months 
of completion of the chemotherapy). Patients with bone-only disease, active chronic inflammatory 
bowel disease and known history of bowel obstruction, known history of unstable angina or 
myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure or active hepatitis B or C infection were excluded 
from the study.  
Patients were randomised (1:1) to receive sacituzumab govitecan 10 mg/kg as an intravenous infusion 
on Days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle (n=272) or TPC (n=271). TPC was determined by the investigator 
before randomisation from one of the following single-agent regimens: eribulin (n=130), vinorelbine 
(n=63), gemcitabine (n=56), or capecitabine (n=22). Randomisation was stratified based on prior 
chemotherapy regimens for metastatic disease (2 vs. 3-4), visceral metastasis (yes vs. no), and 
endocrine therapy in the metastatic setting for at least 6 months (yes vs. no). 
Patients were treated until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The primary efficacy outcome 
measure was PFS as determined by BICR per RECIST v1.1. Additional efficacy outcome measures 
were OS, ORR by BICR, and DOR by BICR. 
The median age of the study population was 56 years (range: 27-86 years), and 26% of patients were 
65 years or over. Almost all patients were female (99%). The majority of patients were White (67%); 
4% were Black, 3% were Asian, and 26% were of unknown race. Patients received a median of 7 
(range: 3 to 17) prior systemic regimens in any setting and 3 (range: 0 to 8) prior systemic 
chemotherapy regimens in the metastatic setting. Approximately 42% of patients had 2 prior 
chemotherapy regimens for metastatic disease compared to 58% of patients who had 3 to 4 prior 
chemotherapy regimens.  Most patients received endocrine therapy in the metastatic setting for ≥ 6 
months (86%). Patients had an ECOG performance status of 0 (44%) or 1 (56%). Ninety-five percent 
of patients had visceral metastases; 4.6% of patients had stable, pre-treated brain metastases.  
Sacituzumab govitecan demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in PFS by BICR and OS 
versus TPC. The improvement in PFS by BICR and OS was generally consistent across pre-specified 
subgroups. Efficacy results are summarized in Table 4.  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Efficacy endpoints – Pre-specified Final Analysis 
Sacituzumab govitecan  
n=272 
TPC 
n=271 
7.1 (2.8, 13.9)  
21.3 (15.2, 28.1)  
170 (62.5%) 
5.5 (4.2, 7.0)  
159 (58.7%) 
4.0 (3.1, 4.4)  
0.661 (0.529, 0.826) 
0.0003  
Progression-Free Survival by BICR1 
Number of events (%) 
Median PFS in months (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)  
p-value2 
PFS rate at 12 months, % (95% 
CI)  
Overall Survival3 
Number of events (%) 
Median OS in months (95% CI)  
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
p-value2 
Objective Response Rate by BICR3 
Number of responders (%)  
Odds ratio (95% CI)  
p-value  
1 PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomisation to the date of the first radiological disease progression or death 
due to any cause, whichever comes first (data cut-off 3 January 2022). 
2 Stratified log-rank test adjusted for stratification factors: prior chemotherapy regimens for metastatic disease (2 vs. 3-4), 
visceral metastasis (yes vs. no), and endocrine therapy in the metastatic setting for at least 6 months (yes vs. no).  
3 Based on second interim OS analysis (data cut-off 1 July 2022). 
BICR = Blinded Independent Central Review; CI = Confidence Interval 
0.789 (0.646, 0.964) 
0.0200 
1.625 (1.034, 2.555) 
0.0348 
199 (73.4%) 
11.2 (10.1, 12.7) 
191 (70.2%) 
14.4 (13.0, 15.7) 
38 (14.0%) 
57 (21.0%) 
In an updated efficacy analysis with a median duration of follow-up of 12.8 months (data cut-off 1 
December 2022), results were consistent with the pre-specified final analysis. The median PFS by 
BICR was 5.5 months vs 4.0 months, in patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan and TPC, 
respectively (HR of 0.65; 95% CI: 0.53, 0.81). The median OS was 14.5 months vs 11.2 months, 
respectively (HR of 0.79; 95% CI: 0.65, 0.95). Kaplan-Meier curves for updated PFS by BICR and OS 
are presented in Figures 3 and 4.  
16 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Figure 3: Progression free survival by BICR (data cut-off 1 December 2022) 
Figure 4: Overall Survival (data cut-off 1 December 2022) 
 Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
sacituzumab govitecan in all subsets of the paediatric population for the treatment of breast cancer (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The serum pharmacokinetics of sacituzumab govitecan and SN-38 were evaluated in the ASCENT 
study in a population of mTNBC patients who received sacituzumab govitecan as a single agent at a 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose of 10 mg/kg body weight. The pharmacokinetic parameters of sacituzumab govitecan and free 
SN-38 are presented in Table 5. 
Table 5: Summary of mean PK parameters (CV%) of sacituzumab govitecan and free SN-38 
Cmax [ng/mL] 
AUC0-168 [ng*h/mL] 
Cmax: maximum serum concentration 
AUC0-168: area under serum concentration curve through 168 hours 
Sacituzumab govitecan 
242 000 (22%) 
5 560 000 (24%) 
Free SN-38 
91 (65%) 
2 730 (41%) 
Distribution 
Based on population pharmacokinetic analyses, the steady state volume of distribution of sacituzumab 
govitecan was 3.58 L. 
Elimination 
The median elimination half-life (t1/2) of sacituzumab govitecan and free SN-38 in patients with 
metastatic triple negative breast cancer was 23.4 and 17.6 hours, respectively. Based on population 
pharmacokinetic analyses, the clearance of sacituzumab govitecan is 0.128 L/h. 
Metabolism 
No metabolism studies with sacituzumab govitecan have been conducted. 
SN-38 (the small molecule moiety of sacituzumab govitecan) is metabolised via UGT1A1.  
Special populations 
Pharmacokinetic analyses in patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan (n = 789) did not identify an 
effect of age, race, and mild or moderate renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of sacituzumab 
govitecan.  
Renal impairment 
Renal elimination is known to contribute minimally to the excretion of SN-38, the small molecule 
moiety of sacituzumab govitecan. There are no data on the pharmacokinetics of sacituzumab govitecan 
in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (CrCl < 15 mL/min). 
Hepatic Impairment 
The exposure of sacituzumab govitecan is similar in patients with mild hepatic impairment (bilirubin 
≤ ULN and AST > ULN, or bilirubin > 1.0 to ≤ 1.5 ULN and AST of any level; n = 257) to patients 
with normal hepatic function (bilirubin and AST ≤ ULN; n = 526). 
Sacituzumab govitecan and free SN-38 exposures are unknown in patients with moderate or severe 
hepatic impairment.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
SN-38 was clastogenic in an in vitro mammalian cell micronucleus test in Chinese hamster ovary cells 
and was not mutagenic in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) assay. 
In a repeat-dose toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys, intravenous administration of sacituzumab 
govitecan resulted in endometrial atrophy, uterine hemorrhage, increased follicular atresia of the 
ovary, and atrophy of vaginal epithelial cells at doses ≥ 60 mg/kg (1.9 times the human recommended 
dose of 10 mg/kg based on body weight allometric scaling). 
Non-clinical data for the novel excipient MES reveal no special hazard for humans based on 
conventional repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity studies. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
2-(N-morpholino)ethane sulfonic acid (MES) 
Polysorbate 80 (E433) 
Trehalose dihydrate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years. 
After reconstitution 
The reconstituted solution should be used immediately to prepare the diluted solution for infusion. If 
not used immediately, the infusion bag containing diluted solution can be stored in a refrigerator (2°C 
to 8°C) for up to 24 hours protected from light. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type I colourless, clear glass 50 mL vial, with an elastomeric butyl stopper and sealed with an 
aluminum flip-off overseal containing 200 mg of sacituzumab govitecan. 
Each pack contains one vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Trodelvy is a cytotoxic medicinal product. Applicable special handling and disposal procedures have 
to be followed. 
Reconstitution 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Calculate the required dose (mg) of Trodelvy based on the patient’s body weight at the 
beginning of each treatment cycle (or more frequently if the patient’s body weight changed by 
more than 10% since the previous administration). 
Allow the required number of vials to warm to room temperature (20°C to 25°C).  
Using a sterile syringe, slowly inject 20 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for 
injection into each vial. The resulting concentration will be 10 mg/mL. 
Gently swirl vials and allow to dissolve for up to 15 minutes. Do not shake. The product should 
be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
solution should be free of visible particulates, clear and yellow. Do not use the reconstituted 
solution if it is cloudy or discoloured. 
Use immediately to prepare a diluted solution for infusion. 
• 
Dilution 
• 
• 
Calculate the required volume of the reconstituted solution needed to obtain the appropriate 
dose according to the patient’s body weight. 
Determine the final volume of the infusion solution to deliver the appropriate dose at a 
sacituzumab govitecan concentration range of 1.1 mg/mL to 3.4 mg/mL. 
•  Withdraw and discard a volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection from 
the final infusion bag that is equivalent to the required volume of the reconstituted solution. 
•  Withdraw the calculated amount of the reconstituted solution from the vial(s) using a syringe. 
• 
• 
• 
Discard any unused portion remaining in the vial(s). 
To minimize foaming, slowly inject the required volume of reconstituted solution into a 
polyvinyl chloride, polyolefin (polypropylene and/or polyethylene) or ethylene vinyl acetate 
infusion bag. Do not shake the contents.  
If necessary, adjust the volume in the infusion bag as needed with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection, to obtain a concentration of 1.1 mg/mL to 3.4 mg/mL. Only 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection should be used since the stability of the 
reconstituted product has not been determined with other infusion-based solutions. 
If not used immediately, the infusion bag containing diluted solution can be stored refrigerated 
2°C to 8°C for up to 24 hours protected from light. Do not freeze. After refrigeration, administer 
the diluted solution at room temperature up to 25°C within 8 hours (including infusion time).  
Administration 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Administer Trodelvy as an intravenous infusion. Protect the infusion bag from light. The 
infusion bag should be covered during administration to the subject until dosing is complete. It 
is not necessary to cover the infusion tubing or to use light-protective tubing during the infusion. 
An infusion pump may be used. 
Do not mix Trodelvy, or administer as an infusion, with other medicinal products. 
Upon completion of the infusion, flush the intravenous line with 20 mL sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Carrigtohill 
County Cork, T45 DP77 
Ireland 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1592/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 November 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
BSP Pharmaceuticals S.p.A. 
Via Appia km 65,561 
04013 Latina Scalo (LT) 
Italy 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
IDA Business and Technology Park 
Carrigtohill 
Co. Cork, T45 DP77 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Trodelvy 200 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
sacituzumab govitecan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial of powder contains 200 mg sacituzumab govitecan. After reconstitution, one mL of solution 
contains 10 mg sacituzumab govitecan. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: 2-(N-morpholino)ethane sulfonic acid (MES), polysorbate 80, trehalose dihydrate. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Carrigtohill 
County Cork, T45 DP77 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1592/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Trodelvy 200 mg powder for concentrate  
sacituzumab govitecan 
For IV use after reconstitution and dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
200 mg 
10 mg/mL after reconstitution 
6. 
OTHER 
Cytotoxic 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Trodelvy 200 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
sacituzumab govitecan 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side affects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Trodelvy is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Trodelvy 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How you will be given Trodelvy  
Possible side effects 
How to store Trodelvy 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Trodelvy is and what it is used for 
Trodelvy is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance sacituzumab govitecan. One part of 
the medicine is a monoclonal antibody that attaches specifically to a protein on the surface of breast 
cancer cells called Trop-2. The other active part of Trodelvy is SN-38, a substance that can kill cancer 
cells. Once the medicine has attached to cancer cells, the SN-38 enters the cancer cells and kills them, 
thereby helping to fight your cancer. 
Trodelvy is used to treat a type of breast cancer in adults called triple-negative breast cancer 
(TNBC). Trodelvy should only be used after patients have tried at least two other treatments for their 
cancer, including at least one of them for a locally advanced cancer or metastasised cancer. 
Trodelvy is used to treat a type of breast cancer in adults called hormone receptor -positive 
(HR+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 -negative (HER2-) breast cancer. Trodelvy 
should only be used after patients have tried a treatment including a hormonal anticancer treatment and 
at least two additional other treatments for a locally advanced cancer or metastasised cancer. 
The medicine is used when it is not possible to remove the cancer with surgery, because the cancer has 
spread to areas outside the breast (locally advanced) or has spread to other sites in the body 
(metastasised).  
Talk to your doctor or nurse if you have any questions about how Trodelvy works or why this 
medicine has been prescribed for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Trodelvy 
You must not be given Trodelvy if you are allergic to sacituzumab govitecan or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). If you think you may be allergic, ask your doctor for 
advice. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Infusion-related reactions 
itching 
sudden outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps or plaques (wheals) on the skin  
fever 
sudden severe shivering accompanied by a feeling of coldness 
excessive sweating 
breathing difficulties and wheezing 
chest pain, heart palpitations 
Trodelvy is given by drip into a vein. Some people may develop infusion-related reactions which can 
be severe or life-threatening. Seek urgent medical attention if you have any of the following signs 
and symptoms of infusion-related reactions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Your doctor may give you medicines before Trodelvy to help relieve the symptoms. During each 
infusion and for 30 minutes after, you will be closely monitored for these signs and symptoms of 
infusion-related reactions. Your doctor will slow down the infusion rate or stop it if you develop a 
serious infusion-related reaction. 
Neutropenia 
This medicine can cause neutropenia, a condition where there are too few neutrophils in your blood, 
which increases the risk of infections. These infections can be severe, life-threatening and may lead to 
death. Seek urgent medical attention if you have the following signs and symptoms of neutropenia 
or infections:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Your doctor will take blood samples to monitor the levels of neutrophils in your blood. You will not 
be given Trodelvy if the neutrophils are below a certain level on Day 1 or Day 8 of any treatment 
cycle.  
Your doctor will adjust the amount of medicine you are given if you have severe neutropenia.  
a fever (a temperature of 38.5°C or higher) 
chills or sweating  
sore throat, sores in the mouth, or a toothache  
stomach pain  
pain near the anus 
pain or burning when urinating, or urinating more often 
diarrhoea or sores around the anus 
a cough or shortness of breath 
Diarrhoea 
Seek urgent medical attention if you suffer from severe diarrhoea whilst receiving Trodelvy. 
Your Trodelvy treatment will be postponed until your diarrhoea has improved. You will be given 
loperamide to treat your diarrhoea, as long as you do not have an infection. If appropriate, you will 
also be given fluids. 
Your doctor may also give you medicine, such as atropine, to help with stomach cramps, diarrhoea, 
and excessive saliva in mouth before your next treatment infusion.  
Your diarrhoea can lead to dehydration and sudden kidney damage. Talk to your doctor if you 
experience dark-coloured urine or decreased urine volume.  
Nausea and vomiting 
This medicine can cause nausea and vomiting. Seek urgent medical attention if you suffer from 
severe nausea and vomiting whilst receiving Trodelvy. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your doctor will give you some medicines before your cancer therapy, and in between infusion 
sessions to help relieve nausea and vomiting. You will not be given Trodelvy if you have severe 
nausea and vomiting, and will only be given Trodelvy when the symptoms have been controlled. 
Patients who have the UGT1A1*28 gene 
Some patients are more likely to have certain side effects from the medicine due to their genetic make-
up. If you have the UGT1A1*28 gene, your body breaks the medicine down more slowly. This means 
you are more likely to develop certain side effects (such as neutropenia with or without fever and low 
level of red blood cells (anaemia)), than those who do not have the gene. These patients will be closely 
followed-up by their doctor.  
Talk to your doctor, or nurse before you are given Trodelvy if you: 
• 
• 
• 
have liver problems 
have kidney problems 
are a female of child-bearing age (see ‘Pregnancy’, ‘Male and female Contraception’ and 
‘Breast-feeding’) 
are taking medicines to treat other conditions (see ‘Other medicines and Trodelvy’) 
have experienced any problems after receiving any infusions in the past. 
• 
• 
While you are being given Trodelvy, your doctor will monitor you closely for side effects. If you get 
any serious side effects, your doctor may give you other medicines to treat these side effects, they may 
change how much Trodelvy you receive or may stop giving you Trodelvy altogether. 
See section 4. for a list of all the possible side effects related to Trodelvy. 
Children and adolescents 
Trodelvy should not be given to children and adolescents under 18 years old because there is no 
information on how it works in this age group. 
Other medicines and Trodelvy 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.  
Some medicines may affect the way Trodelvy works and may raise the level of Trodelvy’s active 
substance in your blood, increasing the risk of side effects. They are: 
- 
- 
- 
propofol, given as an anesthetic in surgery. 
ketoconazole, used to treat fungal infections. 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors, used to treat cancer (medicines ending in -nib).  
Some medicines may lower the level of Trodelvy’s active substance in your blood, decreasing its 
effects: 
- 
- 
- 
carbamazepine or phenytoin, used to treat epilepsy. 
rifampicin, used to treat tuberculosis. 
ritonavir or tipranavir, used to treat HIV. 
Pregnancy 
Trodelvy should not be used during pregnancy because it may harm the baby. Tell your doctor 
immediately if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby.  
Male and female contraception 
Women who might get pregnant must use effective contraception during treatment with Trodelvy, and 
for 6 months after the last dose of Trodelvy. 
Men with female partners who could become pregnant must use effective contraception during 
treatment and for 3 months after the last dose of Trodelvy. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed during treatment with Trodelvy and for 1 month after the last dose. It is unknown 
whether this medicine passes into breast milk and could affect the baby. 
Driving and using machines 
Trodelvy may affect your ability to drive and use machines e.g. feeling dizzy, fatigue. You should 
therefore be cautious when driving, using tools or operating machines after being given Trodelvy. 
3. 
How you will be given Trodelvy  
Trodelvy will only be given to you by your doctor or a nurse experienced in using anti-cancer 
therapies. 
It is important that your doctor or nurse specialising in your care has confirmed you can take this 
medicine by carrying out a blood test prior to treatment. 
Medicines given before Trodelvy treatment 
You will be given some medicines before receiving Trodelvy to help stop infusion-related reactions 
and any nausea and vomiting. Your doctor will decide what medicines you may need and how much to 
take. 
How much Trodelvy you will be given 
Treatment for your cancer is repeated in 21-day (3-week) cycles. The recommended dose of Trodelvy 
is 10 mg for each kg of your body weight at the start of each cycle (Day 1 of each cycle) and again 
one week later (Day 8 of each cycle). 
How you will be given your medicine 
A doctor or nurse will give the medicine via an intravenous infusion (a drip into your vein). 
First infusion: you will be given your first infusion of medicine over 3 hours.  
Second and subsequent infusions: you will be given the other infusions over 1 to 2 hours if your first 
infusion was uneventful.  
Your doctor or nurse will monitor you during and for 30 minutes after each infusion for signs and 
symptoms of infusion-related reactions. 
Infusion-related reactions 
Your doctor will slow down the infusion rate of your medicine if you develop an infusion-related 
reaction. The medicine will be stopped if the infusion-related reaction is life-threatening. See 
section 2. 
Dose of medicine when experiencing some side-effects 
Your doctor may change or stop your dose if you experience certain side effects. See section 4. 
If you are given more Trodelvy than you should 
Since the infusion is given to you by your doctor or other appropriately trained staff, an overdose is 
unlikely. If you inadvertently receive too much medicine, your doctor will monitor you and give you 
additional treatment as required. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a dose of Trodelvy is missed 
If you forget or miss your appointment, call your doctor or your treatment centre to make another 
appointment as soon as possible. Do not wait until your next planned visit. For the treatment to be 
fully effective, it is very important not to miss a dose. 
If you stop treatment with Trodelvy 
You should not stop the therapy early without talking with your doctor first. 
The therapy for breast cancer with Trodelvy usually requires a number of treatments. The number of 
infusions that you receive will depend on how you are responding to treatment. Therefore, you should 
continue receiving Trodelvy even if you see your symptoms improve and until your doctor decides 
that Trodelvy should be stopped. If the treatment is stopped too early, your symptoms may return.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Seek urgent medical attention if you get any of the following very common serious side effects 
(may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
Low white blood cell count (neutropenia) which may cause the following signs and 
symptoms: 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
a fever, which is a body temperature of 38.5°C or higher: this is called febrile neutropenia  
chills or sweating 
sore throat, sores in the mouth, or a toothache 
stomach pain 
pain near the anus or sores around the anus 
pain or burning when urinating, or urinating often 
diarrhoea  
a cough or shortness of breath 
Diarrhoea (even without other signs) 
Hypersensitivity reactions (including infusion-related reactions) which may cause the 
following signs and symptoms: 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
swollen lips, tongue, eyes, throat or face 
swelling or a raised, itchy, red skin rash 
outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps or plaques (wheals) on the skin that appear suddenly 
fever 
a sudden attack of severe shivering accompanied by a feeling of coldness 
excessive sweating 
wheezing, chest or throat tightness, shortness of breath, dizziness, feeling of fainting, 
breathlessness 
chest pain, heart palpitations 
– 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting) 
Other possible side effects 
Other side effects are listed below. If any of these become severe or serious, tell your doctor 
immediately.  
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
burning sensation during urination and frequent, and urgent need to urinate  
cough, sore throat, runny nose, headache, and sneezing  
lack of enough red blood cells (anaemia) 
low level of white blood cells (lymphocytes or leukocytes) 
loss of appetite 
low blood level of potassium or magnesium  
trouble sleeping 
feeling dizzy 
shortness of breath 
constipation; stomach pain 
hair loss; rash; general itching 
back pain; joint pain 
tiredness 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
shiver, fever, general discomfort, pale or discoloured skin, shortness of breath due to 
overwhelmed bloodstream by bacteria (sepsis) 
infection of the lungs (pneumonia) 
blocked nose, pain in your face, wheezing 
hacking cough which may bring up clear, yellow-grey or greenish phlegm  
flu like symptoms; herpes infection in the mouth  
low number of platelets, which may lead to bleeding and bruising (thrombocytopenia) 
high blood level of glucose 
decreased water in the body 
low blood level of phosphate, calcium or sodium 
anxiety 
change in your sense of taste 
low blood pressure  
nose bleeding; a cough reflex triggered by the drip down of mucus in the back of your throat    
inflammation of the small and large bowel (colitis) 
inflamed and sore mouth; pain in upper stomach area; reflux; bloated stomach 
darkening of the skin; acne-like skin problem; dry skin  
muscle pain in the chest; muscle spasms  
blood in urine; excess protein in urine  
chills 
weight loss 
increase in enzymes called alkaline phosphatase or lactate dehydrogenase, abnormal blood tests 
related to coagulation  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
inflammation of the small intestine (enteritis) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Trodelvy 
Trodelvy will be stored by healthcare professionals at the hospital or clinic where you receive 
treatment. The storage details are as follows: 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial label and carton after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
After reconstitution and dilution, if not used immediately, the infusion bag containing diluted 
solution can be stored in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C) for up to 24 hours protected from light.  
Do not use this medicine if you notice the reconstituted solution is cloudy or discoloured. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Trodelvy is a cytotoxic medicine. Applicable special handling and disposal procedures must be 
followed. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Trodelvy contains: 
- 
The active substance is sacituzumab govitecan. One vial of powder contains 200 mg 
sacituzumab govitecan. After reconstitution, one mL of solution contains 10 mg of sacituzumab 
govitecan 
The other ingredients are 2-(N-morpholino)ethane sulfonic acid (MES), polysorbate 80 and 
trehalose dihydrate. 
- 
What Trodelvy looks like and contents of the pack 
The medicine is an off-white to yellowish powder for concentrate for solution for infusion supplied in 
a glass vial. Each pack contains 1 vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Carrigtohill 
County Cork, T45 DP77 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
IDA Business and Technology Park 
Carrigtohill 
County Cork, T45 DP77 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:  
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Gilead Sciences Belgium SRL-BV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 24 01 35 50 
Lietuva 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Тел.: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Česká republika 
Gilead Sciences s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 910 871 986 
Danmark 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Tlf: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Deutschland 
Gilead Sciences GmbH 
Tel: + 49 (0) 89 899890-0 
Eesti 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Ελλάδα 
Gilead Sciences Ελλάς Μ.ΕΠΕ. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 8930 100 
España 
Gilead Sciences, S.L. 
Tel: + 34 91 378 98 30 
France 
Gilead Sciences 
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 46 09 41 00 
Hrvatska 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Ireland 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 214 825 999 
Ísland 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Sími: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Italia 
Gilead Sciences S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 439201 
Κύπρος 
Gilead Sciences Ελλάς Μ.ΕΠΕ. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 8930 100 
Latvija 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Gilead Sciences Belgium SRL-BV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 24 01 35 50 
Magyarország 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel.: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Malta 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Nederland 
Gilead Sciences Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 (0) 20 718 36 98 
Norge 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Tlf: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Österreich 
Gilead Sciences GesmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 260 830 
Polska 
Gilead Sciences Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 22 262 8702 
Portugal 
Gilead Sciences, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 7928790 
România 
Gilead Sciences (GSR) S.R.L. 
Tel: + 40 31 631 18 00 
Slovenija 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 353 (0) 1 686 1888 
Slovenská republika 
Gilead Sciences Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 232 121 210 
Suomi/Finland 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Puh/Tel: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
Sverige 
Gilead Sciences Sweden AB 
Tel: + 46 (0) 8 5057 1849 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC 
Tel: + 44 (0) 8000 113 700 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Trodelvy is a cytotoxic medicine. Applicable special handling and disposal procedures have to be 
followed. 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned 
below. 
Reconstitution 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Calculate the required dose (mg) of Trodelvy based on the patient’s body weight at the 
beginning of each treatment cycle (or more frequently if the patient’s body weight changed by 
more than 10% since the previous administration).  
Allow the required number of vials to warm to room temperature (20°C to 25°C). 
Using a sterile syringe, slowly inject 20 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for 
injection into each vial. The resulting concentration will be 10 mg/mL.  
Gently swirl vials and allow to dissolve for up to 15 minutes. Do not shake. The product should 
be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The 
solution should be free of visible particulates, clear and yellow. Do not use the reconstituted 
solution if it is cloudy or discoloured. 
Use immediately to prepare a diluted solution for infusion.  
Dilution 
• 
• 
Calculate the required volume of the reconstituted solution needed to obtain the appropriate 
dose according to the patient’s body weight. 
Determine the final volume of the infusion solution to deliver the appropriate dose at a 
sacituzumab govitecan concentration range of 1.1 mg/mL to 3.4 mg/mL. 
•  Withdraw and discard a volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection from 
the final infusion bag that is equivalent to the required volume of the reconstituted solution. 
•  Withdraw the calculated amount of the reconstituted solution from the vial(s) using a syringe. 
• 
• 
• 
Discard any unused portion remaining in the vial(s). 
To minimize foaming, slowly inject the required volume of reconstituted solution into a 
polyvinyl chloride, polyolefin (polypropylene and/or polyethylene) or ethylene vinyl acetate 
infusion bag. Do not shake the contents.  
If necessary, adjust the volume in the infusion bag as needed with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection, to obtain a concentration of 1.1 mg/mL to 3.4 mg/mL. Only 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection should be used since the stability of the 
reconstituted product has not been determined with other infusion-based solutions. 
If not used immediately, the infusion bag containing diluted solution can be stored refrigerated 
2°C to 8°C for up to 24 hours protected from light. Do not freeze. After refrigeration, administer 
the diluted solution at room temperature up to 25°C within 8 hours (including infusion time).  
Administration 
• 
• 
Administer Trodelvy as an intravenous infusion. Protect the infusion bag from light. 
The infusion bag should be covered during administration to the subject until dosing is 
complete. It is not necessary to cover the infusion tubing or to use light-protective tubing during 
the infusion. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
An infusion pump may be used. 
Do not mix Trodelvy, or administer as an infusion, with other medicinal products. 
Upon completion of the infusion, flush the intravenous line with 20 mL sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
39 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX IV 
CONCLUSIONS ON THE REQUEST FOR ONE-YEAR MARKETING PROTECTION 
PRESENTED BY THE EUROPEAN MEDICINES AGENCY 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions presented by the European Medicines Agency on: 
• 
one-year marketing protection 
The CHMP reviewed the data submitted by the marketing authorisation holder, taking into account 
the provisions of Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, and considers that the new 
therapeutic indication brings significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies as 
further explained in the European Public Assessment Report.  
41 
 
 
