25 September 2014 
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Trulicity  
International non-proprietary name: dulaglutide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002825/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Trulicity 
Applicant: 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Grootslag 1-5 
3991 RA Houten 
NETHERLANDS 
Active substance: 
dulaglutide 
International Nonproprietary Name/Common 
dulaglutide 
Name: 
 Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Not assigned yet 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Trulicity is indicated in adults with type 2 
diabetes mellitus to improve glycaemic control 
as: 
Monotherapy  
When diet and exercise alone do not provide 
adequate glycaemic control in patients for 
whom the use of metformin is considered 
inappropriate due to intolerance or 
contraindications.  
Add-on therapy  
In combination with other glucose-lowering 
medicinal products including insulin, when 
these, together with diet and exercise, do not 
provide adequate glycaemic control (see 
section 5.1 for data with respect to different 
combinations).  
Pharmaceutical form: 
Solution for injection 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 2/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strength: 
0.75 mg and 1.5  mg 
Route of administration: 
Subcutaneous use 
Packaging: 
Glass syringe in pre-filled pen 
Package size(s): 
2 pens, 4 pens, multipack 3 packs of 4 pens, 4 
syringes and multipack 3 packs of 4 syringes 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 3/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure ............................................ 10 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ................................................................................... 10 
1.2. Manufacturers ................................................................................................... 11 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ...................................................... 11 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 13 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 13 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.2.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 15 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 16 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal  product ............................................................................... 19 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects.............................. 21 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 21 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 22 
2.3.1. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 22 
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 24 
2.3.3. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 24 
2.3.4. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 25 
2.3.5. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 25 
2.3.6. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 26 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 27 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 27 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 30 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 42 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 53 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 55 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 55 
2.5.1. Dose response studies ..................................................................................... 56 
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................... 60 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 106 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................. 110 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 111 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 152 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety .................................................................... 154 
2.7. Risk Management Plan ...................................................................................... 155 
2.8. Product information .......................................................................................... 165 
2.8.1. User consultation .......................................................................................... 165 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 4/172 
 
  
  
 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 165 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 170 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 5/172 
 
  
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ABPM 
ADA 
2-AB  
ACN 
ADCC 
ALT 
AS1 
AS3 
AST 
AUC 
AUC(0-12) 
AUC(0-168) 
AUC(0-∞) 
AUC(0-x) 
AUCτ 
AVB 
BID 
BMI 
bpm 
Cave 
CD  
CDC  
CE 
CEC 
CE-LIF 
CHMP 
CHO cells 
CI 
CID  
CIOMS 
CIPC 
CKD-EPI 
CL/F 
Cmax 
CNS 
CPP 
CSR 
CT 
CTD 
CUI 
CV 
CYP 
CZE 
DBP 
Des H  
Des H/G 
DoE 
DPP-4 
DS  
DSC  
DTSQ 
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring 
Anti-drug antibody 
2-aminobenzamide 
Acetonitrile 
antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity 
Alanine transaminase 
Analysis Set 1 
Analysis Set 3 
Aspartate transaminase 
Area under the concentration versus time curve 
Area under the concentration versus time curve from time zero to 12 hours 
Area under the concentration versus time curve from time zero to 168 hours 
Area under the concentration versus time curve from zero to infinity 
Area under the concentration versus time curve from time zero to x hours 
Area under the concentration versus time curve during one dosing interval 
Atrioventricular block 
Twice daily injection 
Body mass index 
Beats per minute 
Average plasma concentration 
Circular dichroism 
Complement-dependent cytotoxicity 
Capillary Electrophoresis 
Clinical endpoint committee 
Capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence detection 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
Chinese hamster ovary cells 
Confidence interval 
collision-induced dissociation 
The Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences 
Critical In-Process Control 
Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration 
Apparent clearance 
Maximum plasma concentration 
Central nervous system 
Critical Process Parameter 
Clinical study report 
Clinical Trial 
Common technical document 
Clinical Utility Index 
Cardiovascular 
Cytochrome P450 
Capillary Zone Electrophoresis 
Diastolic blood pressure 
desHis1 variant of N-terminus 
desHis1Gly2 variant of N-terminus 
Design of Experiments 
Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
drug substance 
Differential scanning calorimetry 
Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 6/172 
 
  
  
 
DTSQc 
DTSQs 
DTT 
DURATION  Diabetes Therapy Utilization: Researching Changes in A1c, Weight and Other Factors 
Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire change 
Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire status 
Dithiothreito 
ECB 
ECG 
EE 
eGFR 
ELISA 
FBG 
FDA 
FPG 
GI 
GIP 
GLP-1 
GLP1R 
GPCR  
HbA1c 
HEK293 
cells 
hERG 
HILIC  
HPAEC  
HR 
HR 
i.v. 
ICH 
IDF 
IFU 
IgG 
IgG4 
INRmax 
IPC 
IPS 
ITT 
IVGTT 
Ki 
KLH 
LEAD 
LIVCA 
LRF 
LS 
MACE 
MCB 
MCV 
MET 
MI 
MMV 
MRHD 
MTC 
MTD 
MuLV  
NeuAc  
NGMN 
NI 
NLT 
Through Intervention with Exenatide Once Weekly 
Extended Cell Bank 
Electrocardiogram 
Ethynilestradiol 
Estimated glomerular filtration rate 
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
Fasting blood glucose 
US Food and Drug Administration 
Fasting plasma glucose 
Gastrointestinal 
gastric inhibitory polypeptide, or glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide 
Glucagon-like Peptide 1 
GLP-1 receptor 
G-protein coupled receptor  
Glycosylated haemoglobin A1c  
human embryonic kidney cells 
Human ether-à-go-go-related gene 
Hydrophilic Interaction liquid chromatography 
High pH Anion-Exchange Chromatography 
Hazard ratio 
Heart rate 
Intravenous 
International conference on harmonization 
International Diabetes Federation 
Instructions for use 
Immunoglobulin  
Immunoglobulin G4 
Maximum international normalized ratio response 
In-Process Control 
In-Process Specification 
Intent to treat 
Intravenous glucose tolerance test 
affinity constant 
Keyhole Limpet Haemocyanin 
The liraglutide effect and action in diabetes studies 
Limit of In Vitro Cell Age 
Log Reduction Factor 
Least squares 
Major adverse cardiovascular events 
Master Cell Bank 
Mean corpuscular volume 
Metformin 
Myocardial infarction 
Mouse Minute Virus 
Maximum recommended human dose 
Medullary thyroid carcinoma 
Maximum tolerated dose 
Murine Leukemia Virus 
N-acetylneuraminic acid 
Norelgestromin 
Noninferiority  
Not less than 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 7/172 
 
  
  
NMT 
NOAEL 
NOEL 
nsGLP-1 
OAM 
OPP 
PAD  
PBMC 
PCB 
PD 
pI  
PK 
PPV 
PRO 
PRS  
PRV 
PSIG 
PVAC 
QT 
QTc 
QW 
REMS 
Reo-3 
REWIND 
RMP 
RP-HPLC 
RS 
RVLP 
s.c. 
SAE 
SAP 
SBP 
SC 
SDS 
SEC-HPLC 
SEM 
SGI 
SLS  
SOC 
SU 
SV-AUC  
t1/2 
T2DM 
TEAE 
TEM 
TFA 
tINRmax 
TK 
tmax 
TQT 
Trp-FL  
TZD 
UACR 
UBH 
ULN 
USPI 
Vz/F 
Not more than 
No observed adverse effect level 
No observed effect level 
Native sequence glucagon-like peptide 1 
Oral antihyperglycemic medication  
Operational Process Parameter 
Pulsed Amperometric Detection 
Human peripheral blood mononuclear cell  
Parental Cell Bank 
Pharmacodynamics 
Isoelectric point 
Pharmacokinetics 
Porcine Parvovirus 
Patient-reported outcome questionnaire 
primary reference standard  
Pseudorabies Virus 
Pounds-force per Square Inch Gauge 
Process validation acceptance criteria 
Standard cardiovascular ECG interval between Q and T waves 
Corrected QT interval 
Once weekly injection 
Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy 
Reovirus Type 3 
REsearching cardiovascular events with a Weekly INcretin in Diabetes 
Risk management plan 
Reversed Phase High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
Reference Standard 
Retrovirus-like Particles 
Subcutaneous 
Serious adverse event 
Statistical analysis plan 
Systolic blood pressure 
Subcutaneous 
Sodiumdodecyl Sulfate 
Size exclusion High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
standard error of the mean 
Stepped glucose infusion 
Static light scattering 
System Organ Class 
Sulfonylurea 
Sedimentation velocity analytical ultracentrifugation  
Terminal half-life 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Treatment-emergent adverse event 
Transmission Electron Microscopy 
Trifluoracetic acid 
Time of maximum observed INR response 
Toxicokinetics 
Time of maximum observed drug concentration 
Thorough QT 
Tryptophan fluorescence 
Thiazolidinedione 
Urine albumin to creatinine ratio 
Unprocessed Bulk Harvest 
Upper limit of normal 
United States Package Insert 
Apparent volume of distribution 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 8/172 
 
  
  
WCB 
WHO 
ZDF rats 
Working Cell Bank 
World Health Organization 
Zucker diabetic fatty rats 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 9/172 
 
  
  
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Eli  Lilly  Nederland  B.V.  submitted  on  27  September  2013  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Trulicity, through the centralised procedure falling 
within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
The applicant applied initially for the following indication:  
“Trulicity  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adults  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  in  combination  with 
glucose-lowering  medicinal  products  together  with  diet  and  exercise,  to  improve  glycaemic  control  (see 
section 5.1 for available data on the different combinations).”  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  -  complete  and  independent  application.  The  applicant  indicated  that 
dulaglutide was considered to be a new active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and 
clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting 
certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision P/37/2011 on 
the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/37/2011 was not yet completed as some measures were 
deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  (EC)  No.  141/2000  and  Article  3  of  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal  products  because  there  is  no  authorised  orphan  medicinal  product  for  a  condition  related  to  the 
proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The  applicant  requested  the  active  substance  dulaglutide  contained  in  the  above  medicinal  product  to  be 
considered as a new active substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of a product 
previously authorised within the Union. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 10/172 
 
  
  
 
Scientific Advice 
The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advicefrom  the  CHMP  in  January  2008  and  November  2009.  The  Scientific 
Advice pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A. 
Via Gramsci 731/733 
50019, Sesto Fiorentino 
Firenze (FI) 
Italy 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP: 
Rapporteur: Greg Markey 
Co-Rapporteur: Martina Weise 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 27 September 2013. 
•  The procedure started on 23 October 2013.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 January 2014. The 
Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 January 2014.  
• 
PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview, adopted by PRAC on 5 February 2014. 
•  During the meeting on 20 February 2014, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent 
to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 20 February 2014. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 24 April 2014. 
•  The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 3 June 2014. 
•  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  26  June  2014,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding  issues  to  be 
addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 19 August 2014. 
• 
PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview, adopted on 11 September 2014 
•  During the meeting on 25 September 2014, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation 
to Trulicity.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 11/172 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 12/172 
 
  
  
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is one of the most common non-communicable diseases and is a global health problem. 
In 2011, the estimated number of people with T2DM was 366 million (8.3% of total world population), with an 
estimated increase to 552 million (9.9% of total world population) by 2030. Patients with type 2 diabetes are at 
increased  risk  of  macro-  and  microvascular  complications  including  increased  cardiovascular  morbidity  and 
mortality. The main purpose of antidiabetic therapy is to reduce these risks. 
There  exist  several  types  of  antihyperglycaemic  agents  targeting one  or  more  of  the  pathophysiologic 
deficiencies associated with T2DM, including metformin (MET), sulphonylureas (SU), thiazolidinediones (TZD), 
and insulins. However, they can have undesirable side effects and/or limited usefulness in certain populations. 
For  example,  MET  is contraindicated  in  patients  with  renal  insufficiency,  while  TZDs  are  known  to 
exacerbate congestive  heart  failure  in  some  patients.  Insulin  and  insulin  analogs  as  well  as  SUs  are 
often associated  with  hypoglycaemia  and  weight  gain. More  recently,  incretin-based  therapies,  including 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists, have become 
available  for  patients  with T2DM.  Among  the  available  GLP-1  agonists,  there  are  differences  in  duration  of 
action, frequency and timing of dosing, ease of administration, effectiveness, tolerability and immunogenicity. 
Despite the currently available agents, a substantial proportion of patients with T2DM remain poorly controlled 
suggesting  that  there  continues  to  be  a  medical  need  for  additional  treatment  options  in  these 
patients. Furthermore, there is still potential for a better benefit:risk profile within the GLP-1 receptor agonist 
class.  
About the product: 
The endogenous circulating form of GLP 1 has a very short half-life (90 to 120 seconds) mainly because of rapid 
N terminal cleavage and inactivation by the DPP 4 enzyme. To take advantage of the multidimensional effects 
of  GLP-1  on  glycaemic  control,  two  different  approaches  have  been  used  towards  incretin-based  therapies: 
inhibition of DPP 4 enzyme (by DPP 4 inhibitors) and the development of human GLP 1 analogs resistant to the 
action  of  DPP 4  enzyme  (GLP 1  receptor  agonists).  The  injectable  GLP-1  receptor  agonists  are  designed  to 
mimic the effect of endogenous GLP-1, thereby stimulating pancreatic insulin secretion in a glucose-dependent 
fashion, suppressing pancreatic glucagon output, slowing gastric emptying, and decreasing appetite which may 
also result in weight loss. 
Dulaglutide is a new long acting human GLP-1 receptor agonist. Dulaglutide molecule consists of 2 identical, 
disulfide-linked chains, each containing a human GLP-1 analog sequence covalently linked to a modified human 
immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) heavy chain fragment (Fc) by a small peptide linker.  The GLP-1 analog portion of 
dulaglutide is approximately 90% homologous to native human GLP-1 with amino acid substitutions aiming at 
optimizing its clinical profile, including protection from DPP-4 inactivation and  reduced immunogenicity. The 
IgG-Fc increases the size of the molecule therefore reducing the rate of clearance.  The IgG4 Fc portion of the 
molecule was also modified to prevent half-antibody formation and to reduce the potential for interaction with 
high affinity Fc receptors that may result in immunologic cytotoxicity.  The pharmacokinetic profile of dulaglutide 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 13/172 
 
  
  
 
suggests  a  plasma  half-life  (t1/2)  of  approximately  4.7  days,  which  makes  it  suitable  for  once  weekly 
administration. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
“Trulicity  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adults  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  in  combination  with 
glucose-lowering  medicinal  products  together  with  diet  and  exercise,  to  improve  glycaemic  control  (see 
section 5.1 for available data on the different combinations).”  
As part of their responses to the Day 120 LoQ, the Applicant requested an amendment of the indications to also 
include a monotherapy indication as follows: 
Trulicity is indicated in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve glycaemic control as: 
Monotherapy  
When diet and exercise alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control in patients for whom the use of 
metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or contraindications.  
Add-on therapy  
In combination with other glucose-lowering medicinal products including insulin, when these, together with 
diet  and  exercise,  do  not  provide  adequate  glycaemic  control  (see  section  5.1  for  data  with  respect  to 
different combinations). 
Initially  the  application  concerned  only  one  formulation,  1.5mg  solution  for  injection  recommended  to  be 
administered subcutaneously once weekly. At a later stage (Day 180), in response to a CHMP request, a lower 
strength formulation 0.75mg was introduced. At Day 181, the proposed posology for monotherapy was 0.75 mg 
once weekly. For add-on therapy the 1.5 mg once weekly dose was recommended. For potentially vulnerable 
populations, like patients ≥ 75 years or patients with severe heart failure, 0.75 mg once weekly was proposed 
for consideration as a starting dose.Dulaglutide can be given at any time of day, with or without meals.  
The  dulaglutide  clinical  program  includes  30  completed  clinical  studies  (21  clinical  pharmacology  studies,  4 
Phase 2 studies, and 5 Phase 3 studies).  As of April 2013, a total of 680 subjects were exposed to dulaglutide 
in the 21 completed clinical pharmacology trials. In the completed Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies, T2DM patients 
received dulaglutide once weekly from 1 week to 104 weeks: 4006 received dulaglutide, 703 received placebo, 
and 1541 received active comparator. An additional 10 studies are ongoing.   
The  clinical  pharmacology  and  biopharmaceutics  studies  were  designed  primarily 
to  assess 
PK, pharmacodynamics (PD), the effect of extrinsic and intrinsic factors on dulaglutide PK and/or PD, the effects 
of dulaglutide on PK of other drugs, important drug-drug interactions, and safety and tolerability, including the 
effect of dulaglutide on corrected QT (QTc) interval. Single doses of dulaglutide were administered over a range 
of 0.1 mg to 12 mg, and multiple doses of 0.05 mg to 8 mg were administered once weekly for up to 6 weeks. 
Assessment  of  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  initial  submission  was  based  on  4  Phase  2  (12-26  weeks)  and  5 
long-term Phase 3  (52-104 weeks) clinical studies. Efficacy was primarily evaluated based on the dulaglutide 
effect on glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c). 
General guidance about antidiabetic therapies is provided by the Guideline on clinical investigation of medicinal 
products in the treatment or prevention of diabetes mellitus (CPMP/EWP/1080/00 Rev. 1). The clinical program 
is generally in line with the Guideline’s recommendations.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 14/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The  chemical  name  of  dulaglutide  is:  7-37-Glucagon-like  peptide  I  [8-glycine,22-glutamic  acid,36-glycine] 
fusion  protein  with  peptide  (synthetic  16-amino  acid 
(synthetic human) 
fusion  protein 
with immunoglobulin G4 (synthetic human Fc fragment), dimer [Gly8,Glu22,Gly36]human glucagon-like peptide 
1-(7-37)-peptidyltetraglycyl-Lseryltetraglycyl- L-seryltetraglycyl-L-seryl-L-alanyldes-Lys229-[Pro10,Ala16,Ala17]
human immunoglobulin  heavy  constant  γ4  chain  H-CH2-CH3 
fragment,  (55-55':58-58')- bisdisulfide 
linker) 
dimer. The company’s compound number during development was LY2189265 (this name is used in the initial 
phases of the clinical program; LY2189265 and dulaglutide are used interchangeably at different parts of this 
report). 
Dulaglutide  is  a  homodimer  that  consists  of  two  identical  polypeptide  chains.  Its  structure  is  shown 
schematically  in  the  Figure  below  1  Each  chain  has  a molecular  mass  of  29,841  Da.  Since  dulaglutide 
is produced as a disulfide-linked two-chain molecule, its molecular mass is 59,671 Da (all 12 Cys residues are 
involved  in  disulfide  bonds).  In  addition,  each  polypeptide  chain  contains  an N-linked  glycosylation  site  at 
Asn126.  
Figure  1  A Schematic Diagram  of  Dulaglutide. The GLP-1  analog,  linker region,  and  IgG4  Fc  CH2 and CH3 
domains are depicted. The 12 Cys residues that are involved in the inter-chain and intra-chain disulfide bonding 
are  also shown. The  hexagonal symbol represents the  N-linked glycosylation at  Asn126  in each polypeptide 
chain.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 15/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information  
Dulaglutide drug substance is manufactured at the Eli Lilly, Kinsale site, located in Ireland. 
Origin, source and history of the cells, characterisation and testing 
A proprietary cell line that has been adapted to suspension, serum-free chemically defined medium, is used as 
the parental host cell line. 
Dulaglutide is a disulfide-bonded covalent homodimer fusion protein encoded by a single synthetic gene. The 
gene for dulaglutide contains the GLP-1 analogue, linker and an engineered human IgG4 Fc domain.  
The  host  cells were transfected  by  electroporation and cultivated in the presence of  methionine  sulfoximide 
(MSX). A lead clone was selected, used to establish a research cell bank (RCB) and subsequently a pre-master 
cell bank (pmRCB). The pmRCB was found to be free adventitious agents and then utilised to generate the MCB.  
The MCB was tested for cell line identity by isoenzyme analysis and for adventitious agents. The genetic integrity 
was proven by dulaglutide gene sequence verification, restriction endonuclease mapping and Southern Blot. The 
gene copy number was determined using both an IgG4 specific probe and a GLP-1 specific probe. 
The WCB was created based on one vial of the MCB. A protocol for the generation of a new working cell bank is 
included in the dossier. 
The cell line has been demonstrated to be genetically stable as the results of the characterisation of the LIVCA 
cells and the MCB were comparable. Data regarding the viable cell density and cell viability at the LIVCA have 
been provided and substantiate the claimed cell line stability. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Manufacturing process 
Cell culture process 
The manufacturing process  comprises  a straight-forward  cell culture process  starting with WCB  or  MCB vial 
thaw, cell expansion phase for inoculum build-up using progressively larger bioreactors and ending with the 
production bioreactor that is run in a fed-batch mode.  The  bioreactor  is fed with  a  nutrient feed  to provide 
nutrient  supplements  for  cell  growth  and  product  formation.  The  whole  harvest  of  one  cell  culture  run  is 
processed downstream and defines one batch. 
Downstream Purification 
Dulaglutide purification multiple chromatography steps and addresses viral clearance, including nanofiltration 
for physical removal of potential viral particles. Final ultrafiltration is employed prior to the dispensing operation. 
The company provided a manufacturing process description including the ranges of critical process parameters 
and controls. The updated flowchart and process description now includes also the normal operating ranges for 
the parameters investigated in the process characterisation studies. Sufficient details regarding the downstream 
purification are included. 
Control of Materials 
A list of raw materials used per unit operation has been provided. Media and buffer compositions are included in 
the dossier. Materials of animal or human origin are not directly used for the manufacturing process. Materials 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 16/172 
 
  
  
of  animal  or  human  origin  used  in  the  production  of  starting  materials  are  sufficiently  qualified  and  EDQM 
certificates have been provided. The specifications of non-compendial raw materials are given.   
Control of Critical Steps and Intermediates 
Process characterization studies were performed to establish ranges for the process parameters and acceptable 
limits for (critical) in-process controls or in-process specifications.  
Following  the  addition  of  further  detail  to  S.2.2,  the  applicant  has  also  set  out  the  deviation  management 
procedure,  and  overall  the  process  is  considered  to  be  sufficiently  controlled.  An  additional  CPP  was 
implemented and one of the IPC was moved to a more relevant control point downstream. 
Process validation 
Data from full scale cell culture/ primary recovery validation runs and of three full scale purification runs were 
provided,  supporting  that  the  dulaglutide  manufacturing  process  is  able  to  produce  material  of  consistent 
quality. Additional data for all unit operations were provided.  
The Applicant has provided the monitoring data of the process validation runs regarding the depletion of process 
impurities. The data show reduction of these impurities to low levels. These studies have been supplemented 
with spiking studies.  
Sufficient validation data for resin reuse for chromatography steps has now been provided.  
Manufacturing Process Development 
The manufacturing process history is adequately described and rationales for process changes provided.  A cell 
line change was made during development and a site change was introduced to transition from the development 
to the commercial manufacturing site. The data provided demonstrated comparability for the changes. 
The  single  unit  operations  were  characterised  by  designed  experiments  either  at  small  or  at  full  scale. 
Nevertheless, the process validation was traditional. 
The assessment of the criticality of dulaglutide quality attributes is considered reasonable. Modifications in the 
molecule  not  impacting  on  the  bioactivity,  efficacy  and  safety  are  considered  non-CQA  which  is  considered 
justified.  
A  scaled-down  model  of  the  production  bioreactor  was  used  to  characterise  the  production  process.  The 
suitability  of  the  model  was  shown.  The  small  scale  models  of  the  downstream  process  are  considered 
representative of the full scale unit operations based on the data provided. 
The comprehensive process characterisation studies following ICH Q principles built the basis for the criticality 
assessment  of  process  parameters.  The  applicant  has  provided  additional  justification  for  non-critical 
designations.  
The applicant has further clarified the approach to deviation management. 
Characterisation 
The elucidation of the structure of the dulaglutide molecule is adequate, and the applicant has used a range of 
orthogonal analytical techniques to confirm results. Oligosaccharide structure, charge heterogeneity and higher 
order  structure  were  included  in  the  analysis.  The  results  demonstrate  that  the  molecule  conforms  to  the 
predicted sequence and structure.   
Biological assays used to confirm the function of the fusion protein are overall adequately chosen and include 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 17/172 
 
  
  
receptor binding studies for both functional elements and determination of potency.  
The applicant has identified a large spectrum of dulaglutide modifications, determined their proportion in the DS 
and  listed  methods  of  identification.  The  process  related  impurities  are  also  adequately  identified,  and 
described. 
Specification 
The drug substance specification comprises testing of identity, quantity, potency using a cell-based bioassay, 
purity and charge heterogeneity.DS specification also includes determination of physical appearance, colour, 
clarity, bacterial endotoxins, bioburden and pH. In addition appropriate controls for process-related impurities 
DNA, protein A and host cell proteins have been introduced. 
Several specifications have now been tightened for the DS purity tests.   
Analytical procedures overall are sufficiently described. Validation summaries and reports have been provided.  
Batch data are available for the commercial, phase 3 and phase 2 manufacturing process. All batches used for 
clinical phases and DS stability studies are included. In addition, data for batches manufactured with the phase 
1  manufacturing  process  are  provided.  Overall  the  batches  show  a  good  degree  of  consistency,  even  when 
earlier phases of process development are considered. 
The applicant has given a rationale for the specifications, which is based on historical batches, but also using 
tolerance intervals. For a number of specifications, the calculated limits have been tightened.  
Reference Standard 
Qualification data for the reference material used to date including release as well as characterisation data have 
been submitted. All characterisation studies are within the proposed specifications and comparability between 
the original and current reference standard was sufficiently shown. Satisfactory analytical results on the current 
working reference standard were also submitted. The protocol for preparation/establishment and qualification of 
future reference standards is provided.  
Stability 
The Applicant claims 36 months stability for dulaglutide when stored at ≤ -65°C. All results of the 36 month 
stability study performed at ≤ -65°C storage with three phase 3 commercial scale batches (primary stability 
batches) in the commercial container closure system are found within the proposed acceptance criteria. The 
primary stability data have not been manufactured at the DS manufacturing facility in Kinsale, however, this has 
been supplemented by 36 months data for batches from the Kinsale facility.   
Studies have been carried out to allow several freeze/thaw cycles to the DS, however, stability for freeze thaw  
batches has not been carried out to the full DS shelf life of 36 months as insufficient material is available from 
the  study  to  test  beyond  24  months.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  carry  out  additional  tests  when  any 
previously freeze thawed DS is used after 24 months and will proposea suitable testing regimen for this.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 18/172 
 
  
  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal  product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical Development 
Dulaglutide  for  injection  is  supplied  as  0.75mg/0.5ml  and  1.5  mg/0.5  mL  solution  for  subcutaneous 
administration  in  a  1  mL  glass  syringe  barrel  with  a  bromobutyl  plunger  (semi-finished  syringe,  SFS). 
Dulaglutide for injection contains trisodium citrate dihydrate, citric acid anhydrous, mannitol, polysorbate 80 
and water for injection. The semi-finished syringe is assembled into either a single-use pen (SUP) or a prefilled 
syringe (PFS).  
Pharmaceutical development 
Multivariate experiments were performed to further investigate the criticality of quality attributes and to define 
the commercial formulation composition. The Applicant does not claim real-time release or a design space. 
The composition of the drug product solution corresponds to the drug substance solution except for the addition 
of  the  tonicity  agent  mannitol.  The  impact  of  mannitol  was  studied  in  the  solution  formulation  DOE  study. 
Stability data for the dulaglutide drug product show the final composition containing mannitol is stable over the 
intended shelf-life. 
Manufacturing process development is sufficiently described. The same site, scale and process were used for 
Phase 3 clinical supplies, primary stability and validation. All process parameters have been defined either as a 
Critical Process Parameter (CPP) or Operational Process Parameter (OPP).  
The results of the manufacturing process DoE studies combined with clinical development and manufacturing 
experience were used to define the proven acceptable ranges (PARs). PARs are provided for both the CPPs and 
OPPs. Critical In-process Controls (CIPC), In-process Controls (IPC), and In-process Specifications (IPS) with 
the respective control ranges are described. The overall drug product critical quality attribute control strategy 
and  the  analytical  control  strategy  for  low  risk  quality  attributes  are  presented  which  is  acceptable. 
Comparability studies were performed demonstrating that drug product used in clinical studies and drug product 
manufactured with the commercial process is comparable.  
The suitability of the semi-finished syringe was appropriately studied in terms of container closure integrity, 
safety  of  the  components  (extractables,  leachables  studies),  compatibility  with  the  DP  solution,  and 
performance when assembled in the single-use pen and prefilled syringe. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Manufacture 
The semi-finished syringe is assembled with the respective components to the single-use pen. 
The  manufacture  of  dulaglutide  DP  employs  a  standard  formulation  and  aseptic  filling  process.  The  batch 
composition is given and the manufacturing process is adequately described.  
Consistency and reproducibility of the manufacturing process is demonstrated by the validation exercises. For 
process validation validation batches each at commercial scale of the 1.5 mg/0.5 mL strength and the 0.75 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 19/172 
 
  
  
 
 
mg/0.5 mL strength (supportive data) have been manufactured. Process parameter data considering all PARs, 
in-process  control  results  and  release  testing  results  are  provided.  Also  included  are  processing  time  limit 
challenge  studies  and  results  of  aseptic  process  simulation.  Furthermore,  sterile  filter  validation  has  been 
performed. 
The applicant has conducted a large range of studies to ensure transportation does not adversely impact product 
quality. 
Product Specifications  
The specifications for the semi-finished syringe, the pre-filled syringe and the single-use pen cover all tests 
expected for these kinds of products. 
The specification limits consider the quality of dulaglutide used in clinical and non-clinical studies, manufacturing 
experience, analytical variability, and the stability of the drug product as well as the purity of the drug substance 
where applicable.  
The chosen specification categories for the SFS, PFS and SUP are accepted.  
The  lower/higher  shelf-life  specification  limits  for  quantity,  the  purity  tests,  charge  heterogeneity  and 
polysorbate compared to the release limits are not justified by the provided stability data. All results are well 
within the limits defined for release. The shelf-life specification limits have been further tightened in accordance 
with the provided stability data.  
The description and validation of the analytical methods used for DP release and stability testing is considered 
adequate. For identity, quantity, purity, potency, charge heterogeneity in the drug product the same analytical 
methods  are  used  as  indicated  for  the  drug  substance.  Comprehensive  information  has  been  provided  for 
validation of in-house methods. All specified validation acceptance criteria were met for these methods. 
The batch results confirm consistency and uniformity of drug product lots for pivotal clinical studies and process 
validation  lots.  The  results  further  indicate  that  the  process  is  under  control  to  produce  the  product  of  the 
intended quality. 
Container closure 
The primary packaging consisting of Type I clear glass 1 mL-long syringe barrel with small round flange, staked 
needle, rigid needle shield and bromobutyl plunger is adequately described.  
The  list  of  quality  control  tests  for  the  primary  packaging  components  has  been  updated  and  respective 
limits/criteria have been added where applicable.  
The applicant has also given an overview over the attributes, development rationale, in use parameter etc. for 
both the SUP and the PFS. Both devices comply with European directives and relevant ISO standards. 
The applicant has undertaken shipping studies and investigated the product mainly for mechanical functionality. 
The  assembly  process  was  validated  at  each  manufacturing  line  for  at  least  two  batches,  and  relevant 
characteristics such as glide force and injection timing were investigated.  
Stability of the product 
An expiry period of 24 months for the drug product when stored at the long term storage condition of 2-8°C with 
a 14 day patient in-use period at 30°C can be accepted.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 20/172 
 
  
  
The shelf-life is primarily based on the provided stability data for  0.75 mg/0.5 mL and 1.5 mg/0.5 mL drug 
product  batches  (primary  stability  batches)  manufactured  at  the  intended  commercial  scale  (semi-finished 
syringes). The results which are all within specifications and their statistical evaluation demonstrate little intra- 
and inter-batch variability. 
Additional stability data for twelve semi-finished syringe batches manufactured for process validation show a 
comparable trend to the data of the primary stability batches. Therefore, it can be concluded that the expiry 
period of 24 months at 2-8°C with a 14 day in-use period at 30°C is also applicable for semi-finished syringes. 
Based on the provided stability data it is not expected that assembly alters the stability profile of the dulaglutide 
drug  product.  Therefore,  the  expiry  period  and  storage  conditions  of  the  semi-finished  syringe  are  also 
applicable for the assembled single-use pen and pre-filled syringe.  
Facilities and equipment. 
Sufficient information is provided on facilities and equipment. GMP certificates for the manufacturing sites are 
included  in  the  dossier,  although  one  site  has  not  received  a  GMP  inspection for  the  area  where  DP  will  be 
produced. This inspection will be carried out during the next scheduled inspection for the overall site. 
Adventitious Agents 
The virus safety of the dulaglutide manufacturing process is controlled by a complementary strategy comprising 
testing of cell banks, raw materials and the unprocessed bulk harvest for adventitious/endogenous agents as 
well as validation of the virus removal/inactivation capacity of the manufacturing process.  
Production cell culture is performed under serum-free.  
Four process steps have been characterized by Design of Experiments methodology and further investigated in 
virus validations studies. The filter charge capacity has now been adequately tightened. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
No  major  objections  were  raised  during  the  assessment  of  the  quality  part  of  the  dossier.  Information  on 
development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been presented in a 
satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of product 
quality characteristics. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the quality dossier for Trulicity is considered to be of good quality. In Module 3 the development, 
characterisation, manufacture and control of the dulaglutide drug substance and drug product are adequately 
described,  including  the  dossier  updates  in  made  to  include  the  0.75mg/0.5ml  presentation.  The  proposed 
control  strategy  has  been  sufficiently  described.  Sufficient  process  validation  data  have  now  been  provided 
ensuring a robust and well controlled manufacturing process. .   
The  CHMP  recommendation  to  carry  out  additional  tests  on  the  DS  where  previously  freeze/thawed  drug 
substance is used beyond the 24 month has been agreed by applicant. The applicant’s proposal to submit a 
suitable testing plan is acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 21/172 
 
  
  
 
Area 
Number 
Description 
Classification*  Due 
date 
Quality 
1 
Where previously freeze/thawed drug 
REC 
substance (DS) is used beyond the 24 
months’ time point, the applicant has 
agreed to carry out additional tests on 
the DS and will submit a proposal for a 
suitable testing regimen for this as 
recommended by the CHMP. 
On the basis of the Quality data submitted, a positive CHMP opinion can be granted. The active substance status 
on the ‘new active substance’ status was discussed by BWP at d.120 (Ref.  BWP EMA/CHMP/BWP/66318/2014, 
February 2014). 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Dulaglutide binds to the GLP-1 receptor with high affinity (Ki 0.45 nM) when compared to the human glucagon 
and human gastric inhibitory peptide receptors (Ki > 697 nM).  In human embryonic kidney cells expressing the 
human GLP-1 receptor, dulaglutide stimulates cAMP production, with an EC50 of 12.5 pM.  The EC50 was said to 
be comparable to that of native GLP-1 and was shown to be 2-fold higher than the reference peptide, Val8 GLP-1 
(7-37)-OH. 
In the INS-1 832/3 rat insulinoma cell line, dulaglutide stimulates insulin secretion under high glucose conditions 
only (16.8 nM glucose) with EC50 values of 8.3 to 34 nM.  Dulaglutide also dose-dependently enhanced insulin 
secretion  at  high  glucose  concentrations  in  rat  islet  cells  with  EC50  values  of  4.9  nM  and  at  >  100  nM  in 
cynomolgus monkey islets.  At low glucose concentrations, dulaglutide was unable to increase insulin secretion 
from either INS-1 832/3 cells, rat, or monkey islet cells, which confirms the glucose-dependent insulinotropic 
activity of dulaglutide.  Close examination of the data generated in rat islet cells reveals that dulaglutide (3 to 30 
nM) enhanced insulin secretion from isolated  rat  islets by 2.5-  to 3-fold, while native  human  GLP-1 (3  nM) 
produced a 4-fold increase in insulin secretion, which seems to suggest that native GLP-1 is slightly more potent 
at glucose independent insulin secretion than dulaglutide. 
Overall,  the  Applicant  has  evaluated  the  effects  of  dulaglutide  in  vitro  in  rat,  human  and  monkey  cells  but 
different methods have been used to assess functional activity.  Therefore, the in vitro data provided did not 
allow for a direct comparison of the activity at the rat, human and monkey GLP-1 receptors. 
The  Applicant  has  used  2  in  vivo  models:  the  intravenous  glucose  tolerance  test  (IVGTT)  and  the  stepped 
glucose infusion (SGI) model to demonstrate the ability of dulaglutide to stimulate insulin secretion.  For the 
IVGTT studies, in the rat the insulin AUC within the dulaglutide group was not always significantly higher than 
that observed for the vehicle group and in the monkey, the effect on insulin AUC appeared to be short lived; 
however, the data provided some evidence of insulinotropic activity following a single dose of dulaglutide (up to 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 22/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
0.179 mg/kg in the rat and 0.1 mg/kg in the monkey).  Using the SGI model, where glucose was infused to 
produce serum glucose levels within a given range, in the rat, dulaglutide at 0.0179 to 1.79 mg/kg caused a 
significant  dose-dependent  increase  in  the  serum  levels  of  insulin.    Likewise,  in  the  monkey,  subcutaneous 
administration  of  0.1 mg/kg  dulaglutide increased  serum  levels  of  insulin  for  up  to  7  days  post-dose.    In  a 
4-week study, significant insulinotropic activity was also observed following repeated weekly administration, 
which supports chronic use of the proposed product. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No secondary pharmacology studies have been performed, which is acceptable for products of this nature. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Single subcutaneous administration of dulaglutide at 1 and 10 mg/kg resulted in dose-related increases in HR 
and dP/dtmax.  Although increased HR is consistent with GLP-1 agonists, the elevations in HR and dP/dtmax 
were prolonged and resulted in the lack of normal hemodynamic changes during the dark cycles. In addition, 
exposure to dulaglutide at a dose of 10 mg/kg resulted in an increase in QTc at a single time point, potentially 
indicative of a delay in ventricular repolarization. A no-observed-effect level (NOEL) could not be established due 
to prolonged increases in HR and dP/dtmax at 1 mg/kg. 
Following repeated administration of dulaglutide at 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg twice weekly for 1 month, there was an 
increase in QTc interval at all doses; this was shown to be statistically significant prior to dosing on Day 4 (all 
doses) and Day 28 (at 3 and 10 mg/kg) and at 2 hours post-dose on Day 28.  No significant changes in HR were 
observed.  Following repeated administration twice weekly for 3 and 9 months, there was a trend towards an 
increase in heart rate; however, the Applicant did not consider the observed increase to be adverse.  During 
these studies there were small increases in QTc which were not considered to be clinically significant (3 month 
study) and a sporadic increase in QTc noted on Day 29 only (prior to dosing during the 9 month study). No other 
electrocardiographic abnormalities were observed and the NOAEL for cardiovascular effects during this study 
was considered to be 8.15 mg/kg.  Overall, the studies of a longer duration suggest that the potential for QTc 
prolongation is less likely.  Taking all of the data into consideration, it is apparent that effects on HR and QTc 
interval have been observed at doses as low as 1 mg/kg which corresponds to exposures that are ~45-fold 
higher than that proposed clinically. 
Given the observed effects on the cardiovascular system, the Applicant conducted an experiment to investigate 
the effects of dulaglutide on the human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) channel current.  The CHMP note 
that it is considered unlikely that dulaglutide would block the hERG channel, as the relatively small pore size 
would exclude access to proteins of this size.  Nevertheless, the study was conducted, was not performed to GLP 
and  was  fundamentally  flawed  as  the  effects  of  the  vehicle  were  not  evaluated.    The  maximum  observed 
reduction in hERG amplitude of 33% at a concentration of 15.2 µg/mL could have therefore been due to the 
effects of the test article or the vehicle itself. 
The  1  month  repeated  dose  study  performed  in  the  monkey  suggests  that  the  potential  for  effects  on  the 
respiratory and central nervous systems is low. 
Dulaglutide was designed to minimize the risk of potential effector functions of the molecule: the in vitro studies 
performed as well as the repeat-dose toxicity studies demonstrate that dulaglutide does not exhibit effector 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 23/172 
 
  
  
 
 
function activity.  In addition, the potential for antibody formation against foreign epitopes was considered to be 
low. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Dose-related increases in systemic exposure were observed in mice, rats, rabbits and monkeys. 
In general, repeated dosing was associated with a modest increase in systemic exposure in rats (6-month repeat 
dose  toxicity  study)  and  monkeys  consistent  with  accumulation  associated  with  the  twice  weekly  dosing 
frequency of dulaglutide.  Lower exposure after repeat dosing was observed in mice (6-month carcinogenicity 
study), rats (12-month mechanistic study) and rabbits potentially due to the formation of anti-drug antibodies.   
It  should  also  be  noted  that  anti-drug  antibodies  were  not  detected  in  monkeys  following  twice  weekly 
subcutaneous administration of dulaglutide for 9 months. 
The  half-life  of  elimination  of  dulaglutide  was  determined  to  be  approximately  7  days  in  monkeys.  Time  to 
achieve the observed peak plasma concentrations (Tmax) appeared to be unaffected by dose or duration.  There 
were no apparent sex-related differences in dulaglutide plasma concentrations or resulting TK parameters. 
The  Applicant  has  provided  exposure  multiples  for  the  pivotal  studies,  in  order  to  demonstrate  how  the 
exposures  observed  compare  to  those  proposed  clinically.    However,  further  clarification  was  sought  with 
respect to the safety margins provided. 
As outlined in the ICH S6 (R1) guideline, classical biotransformation studies are not required for proteins as it is 
expected  that  dulaglutide  will  be  degraded  to  smaller  proteins  and  amino  acids.    Hence,  the  absence  of 
metabolism and excretion studies is justified.  However, the CHMP notes that the excretion of dulaglutide in 
breast milk was not determined during the reprotoxicity studies conducted to date and further clarification was 
sought. 
2.3.3.  Toxicology 
Repeat dose toxicity 
During the repeated dose studies, important outcomes included reduction in food consumption with secondary 
decreases  in  weight  gain  in  rodents  and  monkeys.  There  was  no  dose-limiting  target  organ  toxicity.  No 
pancreatic  inflammation,  necrosis,  hyperplasia,  or  neoplasia  in  rats  was  observed  at  58-fold  the  maximum 
recommended human dose of 1.5 mg/week (MRHD) based on AUC.  No thyroid C-cell neoplasia or pancreatic 
inflammation, necrosis, hyperplasia, or neoplasia was observed in monkeys at 474-fold the MRHD based on 
AUC. 
Carcinogenicity  
In the carcinogenicity studies, non-fatal, thyroid C-cell tumors in rats occurred at ≥ 7-fold the MRHD based on 
AUC.  C-cell carcinomas were noted in rats, but no pancreatic inflammation, necrosis, hyperplasia, or neoplasia 
at 58-fold the MRHD based on AUC.   No thyroid C-cell or pancreatic inflammation, necrosis, hyperplasia, or 
neoplasia was observed in transgenic mice at 4-fold the MRHD based on AUC.  In non-diabetic rats, chronic 
dulaglutide  treatment  (58-fold  the  MRHD,  based  on  AUC)  increased  focal  thyroid  C-cell  hyperplasia  in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 24/172 
 
  
  
 
 
non-diabetic rats, but  focal thyroid C-cell hyperplasia was not preceded by increased thyroid C-cell volume.  
Consistent with the lack of morphometric changes in thyroid C-cell volume in non-diabetic rats, dulaglutide did 
not increase diffuse C-cell hyperplasia or basal or calcium chloride-stimulated plasma calcitonin.  Dulaglutide 
produced effects typically associated with other marketed long acting GLP-1 receptor agonists such as Victoza 
(liraglutide) and Bydureon (exenatide once-weekly).  The human relevance of thyroid C-cell tumors from the 
GLP-1 receptor agonist class is unknown and at this time a potential to cause carcinogenicity in man cannot be 
completely ruled out.  The findings have been included in Section 5.3 of the SmPC, which is acceptable and no 
further non-clinical study is required at this time. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
During the embryofetal development studies, as observed for other GLP-1  receptor agonists,  in the rat and 
rabbit, skeletal effects were noted at 44- and 11-fold the MRHD, respectively, based on AUC.  Memory deficits 
in Biel swimming maze of F1 female offspring was observed at 16-fold the MRHD, based on AUC, in association 
with reduced maternal food consumption and weight gain. 
2.3.4.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Dulaglutide is a recombinant protein. No risk to the environment from the use of dulaglutide is expected. 
2.3.5.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Overall,  the  Applicant  has  evaluated  the  effects  of  dulaglutide  in  vitro  in  rat,  human  and  monkey  cells  but 
different methods have been used to assess functional activity.  The data provided  did not allow for a direct 
comparison of the activity at the rat, human and monkey GLP-1 receptors.  The Applicant has clarified that at the 
GLP-1 receptor, all of the residues involved in direct ligand interaction are fully conserved between human and 
cynomolgus monkey receptors and between human and rat receptors. This therefore confirms the suitability of 
the species used for the in vivo toxicology studies.  During the procedure the Applicant has clarified that in vitro 
pharmacology studies have been performed with earlier batches of dulaglutide (generated in NSO and HEK293 
cells) and batches that are considered to be representative of the commercial product (generated in CHO cells).  
In addition, it was confirmed that studies which evaluated the activity at the GLP-1 receptor and the potential to 
mediate antibody-dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) with material that is representative of the final 
product. 
Given that QTc prolongation was observed in the monkey (at doses higher than that proposed clinically), the 
Applicant conducted an experiment to investigate the effects of dulaglutide on the human ether-a-go-go-related 
gene (hERG) channel current.  The CHMP noted that it is considered unlikely that dulaglutide would block the 
hERG channel, as the relatively small pore size would exclude access to proteins of this size.  Nevertheless, the 
study was conducted, was not performed to GLP and was fundamentally flawed as the effects of the vehicle were 
not  evaluated  and there  is  evidence  to  suggest  that  similar  vehicles  have  the  potential  for  hERG  inhibition.  
Hence, the maximum observed reduction in hERG amplitude of 33% at a concentration of 15.2 µg/mL; may 
have been due to the effects of the test article or the vehicle [10 mM (1.92 mg/mL) citrate and 0.02% (w/v) 
polysorbate 80 at pH 6.5].  The Applicant subsequently submitted a report demonstrating the effects of a citrate 
buffer.  This study was conducted to GLP and it is evident that citrate (at 5 mg/mL) inhibits the hERG channel 
current.    The  data  generated  would  suggest  that  citrate  causes  a  concentration-related  reduction  in  hERG 
channel  current.    It  is  acknowledged  that  a  vehicle  group  should  have  been  included  in  the  earlier  study.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 25/172 
 
  
  
However, upon review of the results of the subsequent study, CHMP agreed that an additional hERG study to 
verify the effects of the vehicle and dulaglutide is not warranted. 
It was concluded that the sporadic effects on QT interval which occurred in a number of the non-clinical studies 
may not be of clinical relevance as the findings occurred at exposures considered sufficiently in excess of the 
maximum  human  exposure.    Given  the  observed  effects  on  the  cardiovascular  system,  upon  request  for 
scientific advice, the CHMP suggested that additional cardiovascular studies should be carried out in the dog 
[EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/629115/2009].  The Applicant provided justification for not adhering to the CHMP Scientific 
advice and it is agreed that no further in vivo studies are required in the dog, given the clinical data available.  
Although,  the  thorough  QT  study  was  terminated  prematurely  and  the  supratherapeutic  dose  of  7  mg  was 
actually reduced to 4 mg in some instances, the  clinical data available to date do not indicate a risk for QT 
prolongation in man, if the product is used as proposed. 
The Applicant was also asked to discuss whether the model used (with respect to the time course of placental 
transfer  and  the  extent  to  which  the  fetus  is  exposed)  was  truly  representative  of  the  clinical  situation,  as 
dulaglutide (which carries an IgG4 Fc moiety) is expected to be transported across the placenta via the FcRn 
receptor mainly during the last trimester of pregnancy.  The Applicant has clarified that the rabbit model used to 
determine the potential effects of dulaglutide on embryofetal development has some clinical relevance as it is 
believed that transfer of dulaglutide via the FcRn receptor occurs in both the rabbit and man.  In addition, the 
Applicant re-iterated that the study and its design are in line with the current regulatory guidance. 
The  toxicology  package  submitted  in  support  of  this  application  was  generally  adequate.    Clarification  was 
sought with respect to the nature of the test article used during the toxicology studies and how it compares to 
the  proposed  product.    The  responses  provided  confirmed  that  the  majority  of  the  pivotal  studies  were 
conducted using test material generated in the CHO cell line, which is used for the final commercial process.  
Moreover, the process used to generate batches used for the carcinogenicity some of the reproductive toxicity 
and the 52-week mechanistic study in the monkey was generated using a process deemed comparable to the 
commercial process. 
Toxicokinetic analysis was performed during all pivotal studies.  Within the non-clinical dossier, the Applicant 
provided calculations for exposure multiples for these studies, however, clarification was sought as to whether 
the calculated safety margins were correct.  The Applicant confirmed that the duration of the dosing regimens 
used during the non-clinical studies (0-72 hour or 96 hour) were different to those used in man (0-168 hour).  
Therefore, it was necessary to normalize the reported AUC based on the dosing interval (τ) to obtain similar 
information in animals and humans to compare for calculation of the safety margins. 
Finally,  the  CHMP  noted  that  the  excretion  of  dulaglutide  in  breast  milk  was  not  determined  during  the 
reprotoxicity studies conducted to date.  It is to be expected that a child would be exposed to dulaglutide during 
the  last  trimester  of  pregnancy,  and  the  first  milk  gift.    The  applicant  has  indicated  that  the  structure  of 
dulaglutide  resembles  the  structure  of  an  antibody.  These  are  known  to  be  excreted  in  milk  and  therefore 
excretion in milk is to be assumed.  Although absorption via the gut in neonates is considered to be minimal, 
breast  feeding  has  been  contraindicated;  the  wording  within  Section  4.6  of  the  SmPC  is  considered  to  be 
acceptable and is similar to that used for other members of this pharmacological class. 
2.3.6.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Given the data provided during the course of the procedure, from a non-clinical perspective, this application was 
considered to be approvable by CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 26/172 
 
  
  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
The dulaglutide clinical development program included 30 completed studies (21 clinical pharmacology studies 
and 9 Phase 2 and 3 studies (Table 1) with an additional 10 studies ongoing (Table 2). 
The Phase 2 and 3 studies included patients with T2DM treated with a range of therapies at the time of random 
assignment to study treatment: diet and exercise, single or dual oral antihyperglycemic medications (OAMs), or 
conventional insulin therapy with or without metformin. Treatment durations ranged from 12 to 26 weeks in the 
Phase 2 studies and from 52 to 104 weeks in the Phase 3 studies. Dulaglutide was examined against a placebo 
comparator in the 4 Phase 2 studies (H9X-MC-GBCJ, H9X-MC-GBCK, H9X-JE-GBCZ and H9X-MC-GBDN) and 2 
of  the  Phase  3  Studies  (H9X-MC-GBCF)  and  H9X-MC-GBDA).  Active  comparators  in  the  Phase  3  studies 
included sitagliptin (H9X-MC-GBCF), exenatide BID (H9X-MC-GBDA), metformin (H9X-MC-GBDC), and insulin 
glargine (H9X-MC-GBDB and H9X-MC-GBDD).  
Table  1  Completed  Clinical  Pharmacology/Biopharmaceutic,  Phase  2  and  3  Clinical,  and  Device  Studies 
Contributing to Safety Assessments in the Dulaglutide Marketing Application 
Clinical Pharmacology and Biopharmaceutic Studies  
Healthy Subject PK, PD, and Tolerability  
GBCA – Single-dose safety, PK, and PD  
Studies Providing Patient PK and/or PD Information  
GBCD – Multiple-dose safety, PK, and PD  
GBCB – Single-dose safety, PK, and PD in Japanese patients with T2DM  
GBCL – Multiple-dose safety, PK, and PD in Japanese patients with 
T2DM  
Effect of Intrinsic Factors  
GBCM -Renal impairment (subjects with normal/impaired renal 
function)  
GBCT -Elderly (≥65 years of age) patients with T2DM  
GBDO -Hepatic impairment (subjects with normal/impaired hepatic 
function)  
GBCN -Effect of injection site on BA; effect of BMI (subjects with 
high/low BMI)  
Effect of Dulaglutide on PK and/or PD of other Drugs  
GBCO -Lisinopril/metoprolol in subjects with hypertension 
(with/without T2DM) and healthy subjects  
a
Device Studies 
IQBA -safety/tolerability of single-use pen vs. prefilled 
syringe  
IQBE – summative human factors study for the 
single-use pen  
Phase 2 Studies  
GBCJ – 16-week, placebo-controlled, dulaglutide dose 
titration (background: 2 OAMs -MET, SU, TZD, or 
DPP-4 inhibitor)  
GBCK – 12-week, placebo-controlled, dose-dependent 
effects on glycemic control (background: 
diet/exercise)  
GBCZ – 12-week, placebo-controlled, dose-dependent 
effects on glycemic control, Japanese patients with 
T2DM (background: diet/exercise)  
GBDN – 26-week, placebo-controlled, BP/HR with ABPM 
(background: OAM(s) -MET, SU, TZD, glinides, 
α-glucosidase inhibitors)  
Phase 3 Studies  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 27/172 
 
  
  
 
  
GBCP -Atorvastatin in healthy subjects  
GBCQ -Oral contraceptives in healthy women taking OC  
GBCR -Digoxin in healthy subjects  
GBCS -Warfarin in healthy subjects  
b
GBDM
 – MET in patients with T2DM  
GBDW -Sitagliptin in patients with T2DM  
Special Studies  
GBCI -Restoration of first/second phase insulin (healthy 
subjects/T2DM)  
GBCF
c
 – 104-week, placebo-and sitagliptin-controlled, 
HbA1c noninferiority vs. sitagliptin (background: 
MET)  
GBDA – 52-week, placebo-and exenatide BID-controlled, 
HbA1c superiority vs. placebo (background: 
MET+TZD) 
GBDB – 78-week, insulin glargine-controlled, HbA1c 
noninferiority vs. comparator (background: 
MET+SU)  
GBDC – 52-week, MET-controlled, HbA1c noninferiority 
GBCH -Gastric emptying (healthy subjects)  
Thorough QT Interval Study  
GBCC -Thorough QT study  
Bioavailability (Healthy Subjects)  
GBDR -Absolute BA of SC; relative BA of IM vs. SC  
GBDT -Comparative PK of single-use pen vs. prefilled syringe  
Completed  Clinical  Pharmacology/Biopharmaceutic,  Phase  2  and  3  Clinical,  and  Device  Studies  Contributing  to  Safety  Assessments  in  the 
Dulaglutide Marketing Application  
a Study IQBA was a clinical pharmacology study using the prefilled syringe and single-use pen, and Study IQBE was a summative human factors using 
the single-use pen alone. Study H8L-MC-IQBF was a summative human factors study with the prefilled syringe. Study H8L-MC-IQBD was a formative 
human factors study for the single-use pen. Because neither Study IQBD not IQBF contributed to the safety assessments presented in this safety 
summary, they are not included in this table.  
b Study GBDM is also considered as Special Study as it assessed gastric emptying using scintigraphy in patients with T2DM.  
c Study GBCF was an adaptive dose-finding, inferentially seamless Phase 2/3, placebo-controlled study in patients with T2DM on metformin. 
vs. comparator (background: diet/exercise)  
GBDD – 52-week, insulin glargine-controlled, HbA1c 
noninferiority vs. comparator (background: insulin 
lispro±MET)  
Table 2 Dulaglutide Ongoing Clinical Studies as of 19 April 2013 
Study  
Phase 1  
GBDL  
Phase 3  
GBCG
a 
GBDE  
GBDG  
GBDJ  
GBDK
a
GBDP
b
GBDQ
b 
GBDX  
GBDY
b 
Protocol Title  
Pharmacokinetics of a Single LY2189265 Dose in Healthy Chinese Subjects and of Multiple LY2189265 Doses 
in Chinese Patients with T2DM  
The Efficacy and Safety of Once-Weekly, Subcutaneous Dulaglutide Monotherapy Compared to Glimepiride 
in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus  
A Randomized, Open-Label, Parallel-Arm Study Comparing the Effect of Once-Weekly Dulaglutide with 
Once-Daily Liraglutide in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes  
A Randomized, Parallel-Arm, Double-Blinded Study Comparing the Effect of Once-Weekly Dulaglutide with 
Placebo in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus on Sulphonylurea Therapy  
The Effect of Dulaglutide on Major Cardiovascular Events in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes: Researching 
Cardiovascular Events with a Weekly Incretin in Diabetes  
The Efficacy and Safety of Once-Weekly, Subcutaneous Dulaglutide Compared to Once-Daily Insulin 
Glargine in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus on Metformin and/or a Sulphonylurea  
A Phase 3 Study of LY2189265 Monotherapy Compared to Placebo and Liraglutide in Patients with Type 2 
Diabetes Mellitus  
A 52-Week, Open-Label, Long-Term Safety Study of LY2189265 in Combination with Monotherapy of Oral 
Antihyperglycaemic Medications in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus  
A Randomized, Open-Label, Parallel-Arm Study Comparing the Effect of Once-Weekly Dulaglutide With 
Insulin Glargine on Glycemic Control in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes and Moderate or Severe Chronic 
Kidney Disease  
A Phase 3 Study of LY2189265 Compared to Insulin Glargine in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus on a 
Sulphonylurea and/or Biguanide  
a Predominantly Asian subjects. b Japanese subjects. 
Note: An ongoing study is defined as any study that had achieved a first patient visit but had not achieved any database 
lock (including interim locks) as of 19 April 2013, the data cutoff date for this submission. 
Clinical Pharmacology 
The clinical pharmacology of dulaglutide was evaluated in 21 clinical pharmacology studies, 4 Phase 2 studies, 
and 3 additional Phase 3 studies, including an adaptive seamless Phase 2/3 study. Single doses of dulaglutide 
over a range of 0.1 to 12 mg and once weekly multiple doses over a range of 0.05 to 8 mg for up to 6 weeks were 
studied.  The  studies  included  535  healthy  subjects  and  229  patients  with  T2DM.  Special  population  studies 
included  subjects  with  renal  and  hepatic  impairment,  elderly,  and  subjects  with  hypertension.  Two  clinical 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 28/172 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
pharmacology studies were conducted in Japanese patients with T2DM. Intrinsic and extrinsic factors that could 
affect  the  PK  and  PD  of  dulaglutide,  as  well  as  the  potential  effect  of  dulaglutide  on  the  PK  of  commonly 
co-administered medications, were evaluated in individual studies. The program also included PD mechanistic 
studies that assessed the effects of dulaglutide on first and second phase insulin secretion and gastric emptying.  
Population PK and PK/PD analyses were also performed throughout the program to provide: (1) an assessment 
of  dulaglutide  PK  in  the  target  population,  (2)  an  assessment  of  intrinsic  and  extrinsic  factors  that  could 
significantly influence dulaglutide PK and PD, (3) a characterization of PK and PD between-patient variability, 
and  (4)  an  assessment  of  dulaglutide  exposure-response  relationships  for  efficacy  (FPG-HbA1c,  and  body 
weight) and safety measures (ECG, heart rate, BP, amylase [pancreatic and total], lipase, calcitonin) to inform 
the dose range for Phase 2, dose selection for Phase 3, and the final recommended commercial dose. An outline 
of the clinical pharmacology studies is presented in Table 3 below. 
Table 3 Clinical Pharmacology Studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 29/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Development of the dulaglutide involved modification of the molecule to improve the solubility of the peptide, 
and  increase  the  duration  of  its  pharmacological  activity  by  making  the  GLP-1  analog  portion  more  stable 
against DPP-4 inactivation, and by decreasing the rate of clearance of the molecule via fusion to the Fc fragment 
of IgG4.  
The  PK  characteristics  of  dulaglutide  were  assessed  in  a  number  of  studies  as  shown  in  Table  3  above.  PK 
parameters after single and multiple-dose administration were then summarized in a meta-analysis of 8 clinical 
pharmacology studies that included healthy subjects and patients with T2DM. Population PK analyses were used 
to  evaluate  the  dulaglutide  PK  in  the  target  population,  the  effect  of  intrinsic  and  extrinsic  factors  and  PK 
inter-patient variability.  
Two formulations supported the clinical development program. The initial lyophilized formulation was used only 
in  the  Phase  1  single-dose  safety  study  and  multiple-dose  safety  study.  The  final  commercial  solution 
formulation was used in subsequent Phase 1 studies as well as the Phase 2 and 3 therapeutic studies.  
Transferability of data was mainly demonstrated by a bioequivalence study comparing the PK of the prefilled 
syringe and the single use pen (PK; Study GBDT). In addition, a validation (summative human factors study) 
using simulated use, a human factors study with the prefilled syringe and the single-use pen devices using a 
simulated injection, a validation (summative human factors) study (Study IQEB) in patients with T2DM using 
actual  placebo  injections,  a  phase  1  non-inferiority  study  in  healthy  subjects  (Study  IQBQ)  comparing  pain 
intensity at the injection site for single-use pen compared to the prefilled syringe were conducted to support the 
use of both, the prefilled syringe and the single-use pen.  
Plasma samples from the clinical studies were analyzed for dulaglutide using validated radioimmunoassay (RIA) 
methods.  
Absorption and Bioavailability  
Information  on  the  absorption  of  dulaglutide  is  based  on  single  dose  PK  data  in  healthy  volunteers 
(H9X-MC-GBCA), and multiple dose studies in T2DM patients (H9X-MC-GBCD). The absolute bioavailability was 
examined after single subcutaneous (SC) 1.5mg  administration in healthy volunteers (H9X-MC-GBDR). The 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 30/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
relative  bioavailability  of  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  was  also  examined  after  SC  injection  into  the  arm  and  thigh 
compared to the abdominal wall (H9X-MC-GBCN). 
Dulaglutide is slowly absorbed after SC administration with maximum concentrations reached between 48 and 
72 hours. Steady state appears to be reached after two weeks of once weekly dosing.  
The  absolute  bioavailability  of  dulaglutide  following  a  1.5  mg  SC  dose  was  found  to  be  approximately  44% 
probably  due  to  metabolism/degradation  at  the  site  of  injection.  Bioavailability  does  not  appear  to  be 
significantly affected by the site the administration as no significant effect on the exposure of dulaglutide was 
found after a  1.5 mg dose was SC injected into the arm or thigh compared to the abdominal wall (Table 4 and 
Figure 2). A slightly lower Cmax was observed after administration in the thigh compared to the abdomen but is 
unlikely to be clinically relevant. The Applicant suggests that all three injection sites can be used interchangeably 
without dose-adjustment and this is agreed. The relative bioavailability of an IM dose was found similar to an SC 
dose  (although this was  calculated based on  a 0.75mg dosing) which  is reassuring in  case of errors during 
self-injection. 
In contrast to the administration site, BMI was found to be a significant factor inversely affecting bioavailability 
(this is further discussed in the Special Populations section below).   
Table 4 Summary of Dulaglutide Pharmacokinetics from a Relative Bioavailability of Injection at different  Sites 
in Healthy Subjects (Low and High Body Mass Indices); Study H9X-MC-GBCN. 
Injection site 
N  
AUC(0-tlast) (ng•h/mL)  
AUC(0-∞) (ng•h/mL)  
AUC(0-168) (ng•h/mL)  
Cmax (ng/mL)  
tmax (h)  
t1/2 (h)  
CL/F (L/h)  
Vz/F (L)  
Frel (Arm/Abdomen)  
Frel (Thigh/Abdomen)  
Abdomen 
43 
13200 (24) 
15100 (24) 
9410 (26) 
76.9 (30) 
48.0 (24.0-72.0) 
102 (80.7-155) 
0.0996 (24) 
14.6 (28) 
NA 
NA 
Arm 
40 
13000 (24) 
14800 (25) 
9270 (24) 
76.1 (25) 
48.0 (12.0-72.0) 
103 (75.0-146) 
0.101 (25) 
15.0 (26) 
96.6 (14) 
NA 
Thigh 
44 
12600 (21) 
14600 (18) 
8660 (24) 
68.5 (27) 
48.0 (12.0-120) 
107 (75.6-194) 
0.101 (20) 
15.5 (25) 
NA 
99.0 (13) 
Figure 2 Arithmetic mean (+SD) plasma concentration versus time profiles of LY2189265 (dulaglutide) across 
BMI groups and administration sites following single dose administration of 1.5 mg dulaglutide by SC injection 
(upper panel: linear scale; lower panel: semi-logarithmic scale); Study H9X-MC-GBCN 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 31/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Distribution  
The mean apparent volumes of distribution (Vz/F) after single and multiple 1.5 mg SC dosing were calculated as 
19.5 L (40.5% CV) and 17.4 L (range 9.3 to 33) respectively, based on the findings of the PK meta-analysis 
combining data from single and multiple dose Studies (H9X-MC-GBCT and H9X-JE-GBCL). After a single 0.75 
mg dose, mean Vz/F was calculated 11.3 L. After 0.1 mg IV administration, mean volume of distribution (Vz) 
was  5.32  L  (17%  CV)  (Study  H9X-MC-GBDR),  indicating  that  dulaglutide  distributes  primarily  in  the  blood 
volume. Protein binding was not reported for dulaglutide. The  IgG Fc drives the time action profile and this 
clearance mechanism is independent of protein binding. In addition, dulaglutide was not designed to bind to 
serum albumin and has a large molecular weight with inclusion of the IgG Fc component for half-life extension 
(molecular weight of 59,671 Daltons). 
Elimination  
Data from the PK meta-analysis indicate an apparent clearance (CL/F) in patients with T2DM after multiple 1.5 
mg dosing of 0.107 L/hr. Mean terminal half-life (t1/2) after multiple 1.5 mg dosing was 4.7 days. Following 
single doses of dulaglutide 1 mg and higher, mean plasma concentrations were quantifiable up to 336 hours (14 
days) (Study H9X-JE-GBCB in Japanese T2DM patients). Model-derived PK parameter estimates were similar to 
non-compartmental estimations from individual studies.  
Native  GLP-1  (amino  acid  sequence  7-37)  is  susceptible  to  proteolysis  by  DPP-4  and  other  enzymes.  The 
cleavage of native GLP-1 by DPP-4 results in the loss of the dipeptide off the N-terminal end, generating inactive 
GLP-1 metabolites (amino acid sequence 9-36 or 9-37). Dulaglutide was engineered to be less susceptible to 
cleavage by DPP-4, but due to the extended exposure profile, dulaglutide may still undergo cleavage on the 
N-terminal end to form a truncated GLP-Fc metabolite (9-37GLP-Fc) in vivo.  
To  investigate  if  9-37GLP-Fc  is  present  in  circulation  after  administration  of  dulaglutide,  a  directed  liquid 
chromatographic/tandem mass spectrometric (LC/MS/MS) method was developed to detect dulaglutide and the 
9-37GLP-Fc  metabolite  in  human  plasma.  This  non-validated  method  was  used  to  conduct  an  exploratory 
analysis  of  pooled  human  plasma  samples  following  SC  administration  of  1.5  mg  dulaglutide  from  Study 
H9X-MC-GBCT. The 9-37GLP-Fc metabolite was detected over the course of the dulaglutide concentration-time 
profile following a single or weekly subcutaneous administration of 1.5 mg for 6 weeks. By the last collection 
timepoint, 9-37GLP-Fc had a plasma concentration that exceeded the parent dulaglutide compound. The activity 
of 9-37GLP-Fc was assessed using a recombinant cell-based reporter gene assay system. This assay was used 
to test the potential of 9-37GLP-Fc to  activate the human  GLP-1  receptor. The in vitro system  used  human 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 32/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
embryonic  kidney  cells  (HEK-293)  stably  expressing  the  human  GLP-1  receptor  at  the  cell  surface  and  an 
intracellular  reporter  gene  whose  expression  was  coupled  to  GLP-1  receptor  signalling  through  cyclic  AMP 
production (cyclic AMP responsive CRE-4-Luciferase system). In this test system, 9-37GLP-Fc was determined 
to be a weak but full agonist with about 7400-fold less potency than the control peptide (7-37GLP-1 analogue). 
A direct comparison of dulaglutide to control peptide in a similar assay system indicated that 9-37GLP-Fc would 
be  about  15,000-fold  less  potent  compared  to  dulaglutide.  Thus,  despite  the  higher  concentrations  of 
9-37GLP-Fc, the contribution of 9-37GLP-Fc to the PD response of dulaglutide is negligible. 
Dose proportionality  
Dose proportionality was examined in studies H9X-MC-GBCA and H9X-MC-GBCD (see also Absorption section 
above),  as  well  as  the  PK  meta-analysis.  Study  H9X-MC-GBCA  in  healthy  volunteers  single  dose  SC 
administration of dulaglutide over a range from 1.0 mg to 12.0 mg showed that Cmax and AUC(0-∞) increased 
less  than  proportionally.  With  each  doubling  of  dose,  Cmax  increased  by  1.88  (90%  CI:  1.76  to  2.01)  and 
AUC(0-∞) increased by 1.84 (90% CI:1.76 to 1.93). However, it was concluded that this was not a clinically 
meaningful difference. 
The  multiple  dose  study  H9X-MC-GBCD  in  T2DM  patients  showed  that  at  steady  state  (following  the  fifth 
dulaglutide dose) increases in exposure (Cmax, AUC) less than proportional over the dose range of 0.05 mg to 
8 mg. With each doubling dose, there was an approximately 1.8-fold increase in Cmax and a 1.9-fold increase 
in AUC, which were again considered not likely to be clinically relevant. 
Time dependency 
This topic was not specifically discussed by the applicant. However, given that multiple dose pharmacokinetics 
are predicable from single dose data, there is no evidence of time dependency 
Variability 
Data  from  the  single  dose  H9X-MC-GBCA  study  in  healthy  volunteers  suggest  a  relatively  low  inter-  and 
intra-subject variability. 
Table 5 Estimates of Inter-subject and Intra-subject Variability of Pharmacokinetic Parameters for dulaglutide 
following Single Doses of 1 to 12 mg; Study H9X-MC-GBCA 
The estimates of intersubject variability from the meta-analysis of clinical pharmacology studies were higher 
(Table 6), with values of 30% for AUC and 28-35% for Cmax.  Intra-subject variability estimates were 12 and 
16% for AUC and Cmax, respectively. 
Table 6 Dulaglutide pharmacokinetic parameters from the meta-analysis of clinical pharmacology studies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 33/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics in target population 
Potential differences in dulaglutide PK between healthy subjects and T2DM patients were mainly examined in the 
PK  meta-analysis.  Overall,  after  single  dosing  the  extent  of  exposure  to  dulaglutide  in  patients  with  T2DM 
appears comparable to that of healthy volunteer. Dulaglutide PK after a single 1.5-mg dose was found generally 
similar between nondiabetic subjects and patients with T2DM with the exception of tmax, which occurred at 
approximately 72 hours (12 to 120 hours) in the diabetic population and approximately 48 hours (12 to 120 
hours) in healthy subjects.  
In the T2DM population alone, the combined data from single dose studies showed a geometric mean AUC(0-
∞) after a 1.5 mg dose of 7410 ng.hr/mL, with an associated Cmax of 61 ng/mL. Half-life was approximately 4.5 
hr  days.  Mean  estimate  for  apparent  clearance  was  approximately  0.125  L/hr  and  for  apparent  volume  of 
distribution was 20 L. Combined data from multiple dose studies for the 1.5 mg dose in T2DM patients with data 
from Study H9X-MX-GBCT (elderly patients) and Study H9X-JE-GBCL (Japanese patients; see below) suggest 
an estimated geometric mean AUC(0-168) and AUC(0-∞) of 14000 and 23100 ng.hr/mL, respectively, with 
associated Cmax of 114 ng/mL. Median tmax was approximately 48 hours (range 24 to 72 hours). Half-life was 
approximately 4.7 days. Accumulation after multiple dose administration of a 1.5 mg dose was approximately 
1.56-fold. Mean estimates for apparent clearance were approximately 0.10 L/hr and for apparent volume of 
distribution were 17.4 L. 
There are no multiple dose PK studies in healthy volunteers; therefore, a direct comparison of PK data at steady 
state between healthy subjects and T2DM patients is not possible. Moreover, multiple dose PK data come from 
studies in elderly and in Japanese T2DM patients so a question arises whether they are representative of the 
whole T2DM population although, as discussed below, there is no strong evidence of a significant effect of age 
and race on dulaglutide PK.  
Special populations 
Apart from specific studies in patients with renal and hepatic impairment, Japanese patients and elderly, the 
effect of most other intrinsic factors were tested in population PK analyses.  
Based on the combined findings of individual studies and population PK data the Applicant provided the following 
summary graph showing the overall effect of the various examined intrinsic factors on the PK of dulaglutide 
together with relevant recommendations as to whether a dose adjustment may be required. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 34/172 
 
  
  
 
 
Figure 3 Effect of intrinsic factors on the pharmacokinetics of dulaglutide. 
Renal Impairment  
Study H9X-MC-GBCM examined dulaglutide PK (after a single 1.5 mg SC dose) in 48 subjects (46 non-diabetic, 
2  T2DM)  with  mildly  impaired  (estimated  CrCL:50-80  mL/min;  n=8),  moderately  impaired  (estimated 
CrCL:30-50mL/min; n=8), severely impaired renal function (estimated CrCL:<30 mL/min; n=8) or end stage 
renal disease requiring dialysis (n=8) and a control group (n=16) with normal renal function. The primary PK 
analysis showed a limited and no consistent effect of impaired renal function on dulaglutide PK (Table 7). Based 
on a continuous statistical regression model examining CrCL and dulaglutide, no statistically significant linear 
relationship based on exposure [AUC(0-∞) and Cmax was found. No relationship was also observed between the 
PK parameters and renal function based on estimated eGFR. 
Overall, the results suggest that kidneys play a less important role in the elimination of dulaglutide, which is not 
unexpected  given  the  size  of  the  protein.  Consistent  with  Study  GBCM,  renal  impairment  was  not  found  to 
significantly  affect  dulaglutide  PK  in  the  combined  Phase  2  or  Phase  3  population  PK/PD  analyses.  Renal 
impairment is also discussed in the Safety section below.  
Based on the overall evidence it is agreed that dose adjustment in patients with renal impairment is not 
necessary.  The SmPC (section 4.2) therefore advises that no dose adjustment is needed in mild to moderate 
renal impairment but that it is not recommended in severe renal impairment (due to very limited experience in 
that group).   This is further discussed in the Safety section below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 35/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table  7 Summary of Dulaglutide Noncompartmental Pharmacokinetic Parameters following Single Doses 1.5 
mg Dulaglutide for Each Renal Function Group; Study H9X-MC-GBCM 
Impaired hepatic function 
Study H9X-EW-GBDO compared dulaglutide PK (after a single 1.5 mg SC dose) between subjects with mild 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A; 2 males and 4  females), moderate  hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B; 2 
males and 4 females), severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C, 2 males and 1 female), and a control group 
with  normal  hepatic  function  (5  males  and  6  females).  There  were  two  T2DM  subjects,  both  in  the  severe 
impairment group.  
No  increase  in  the  dulaglutide  exposure  was  seen  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment.  In  fact,  statistically 
significant  decreases  in  exposure  were  observed  in  all  3  hepatic  impairment  groups  compared  to  healthy 
controls. The lowest mean values were observed in the moderate impairment group, with decreases in mean 
Cmax and AUC(0-∞) of approximately 30% and 33% respectively, compared to controls. Increases in median 
tmax of approximately 12 hours and 24 hours were observed in the moderate and severe impairment groups, 
respectively, compared to controls. Statistically significant increases compared to control in mean Vz/F and CL/F 
were  also  found  for  all  3  hepatic  impairment  groups.  No  notable  trend  in  dulaglutide  concentrations  was 
observed between the mild, moderate, and severe hepatic impairment groups. 
Overall,  although  the  number  of  patients  in  the  study  was  small,  especially  in  the  most  severe  hepatic 
impairment group there was no indication of a clinically relevant effect on the PK of dulaglutide. Therefore, it is 
agreed that a dose adjustment in patients with hepatic impairment is not necessary, which is also stated in the 
SmPC. 
Gender  
The effect of gender was not specifically examined in any PK study. However, in the population PK analyses 
gender was examined but was not identified as a significant covariate. 
Race 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 36/172 
 
  
  
 
 
The effect of ethnicities/races were tested in the population PK and PK/PD analyses with Caucasian representing 
the 52% of the examined population, African 7%, Asian 6%, Hispanic 23%, Native American 10% and other 2%. 
Race had no clinically relevant effect on dulaglutide PK or PD according to the combined Phase 3 population PK 
analysis. Hispanic ethnic origin was found to be a significant covariate for CL but the effect was relatively small 
and was not considered to be clinically relevant. 
Two studies were carried out in Japanese patients only (H9X-JE-GBCB and H9X-JE-GBCL). Although a direct 
comparison is not possible, the main PK characteristics in the Japanese T2DM patients appear similar to their 
non-Japanese counterparts. PK parameters at steady state at a similar dose level in studies H9X-JE-GBCL and 
H9X-MC-GBCD (for example 1mg, a dose examined in both studies) showed similar results between Japanese 
and  non-Japanese  patients,  although  mean  Cmax  and  AUC(0-168)  were  around  35%  higher  in  the  former 
group. Conclusions are difficult to draw when comparing results between studies with different methodologies 
and populations, but overall the data appear to support the absence of major ethnic differences likely to be of 
clinical relevance. 
Weight 
The effect of body size (body weight and BMI) on dulaglutide PK was prospectively investigated in the Phase 1 
study H9X-MC-GBCN (that examined dulaglutide bioavailability at different injection sites). Dulaglutide overall 
exposure was found significantly lower in the high BMI group (30.0 to 45.0 kg/m2, inclusive) compared to the 
low BMI (18.0 to 27.0 kg/m2) group across 3 different administration sites (abdomen, arm, thigh). For AUC(0-
∞),  the  geometric  means  for  the  high  BMI  group  were  19%  to  24%  lower  than  the  low  BMI  group  for  all 
administration sites, with the geometric means for Cmax being 23% to 29% lower than the low BMI group for 
all sites. There were no significant differences in median tmax (48 hours) or change in t1/2 between BMI groups. 
There were two subjects with detectable pre-dose dulaglutide levels before period 1. The GLP-1 active antibody 
used in the dulaglutide assay binds specifically to the N-terminus of active GLP- 1 and dulaglutide. The predose 
levels of dulaglutide concentrations detected before the administration of dulaglutide are likely due to elevated 
endogenous GLP-1 and/or glucagon levels in these subjects. However, the number of affected predose samples 
was minimal and the impact on the overall characterization of dulaglutide PK and subsequent conclusions was 
considered to be negligible. 
Consistent with the Phase 1 data, both BMI and  body weight were found to  be significant covariates in the 
population  PK  analyses.  Weight  and  BMI  was  not  found  to  affect  the  dulaglutide  PD  effects  (this  is  further 
discussed in the Pharmacodynamic section below). Overall, the Applicant suggests that the observed effect of 
weight is not clinically relevant and no relevant dose adjustment is needed. This conclusion is endorsed. 
Elderly 
The PK of dulaglutide in elderly patients (aged ≥65 years) with T2DM were examined in the placebo-controlled, 
multiple-dose study H9X-MC-GBCT, in which 39 patients (36 completed) received dulaglutide or placebo, as 
single subcutaneous doses of 0.5, 0.75, or 1.5 mg once a week for 6 weeks. Dulaglutide was absorbed slowly 
following once-weekly doses, with median tmax values of 48 to 72 hours across all doses on Days 1 and 36. A 
long elimination half-life, with mean values in week 6 of 117 to 131 hours was seen at all dose levels. AUCτ and 
Cmax, appeared to increase in a dose-proportional manner following once-weekly doses for 6 weeks, with the 
90% CI for the exponent containing 1 and the 90% CI for the ratios of the dose normalized geometric means of 
the  1.5  mg  dose  level  compared  to  the  0.5  and  0.75  mg  dose  levels  also  containing  1.  There  was  an 
approximately  1.5-fold  accumulation  of  dulaglutide  in  plasma  compared  to  Day  1,  with  mean  observed 
accumulation ratios of 1.45 to 1.51 across all dose levels. As in study GBCN, some subjects had detectable 
pre-dose dulaglutide levels before the administration of the first dose. Overall, PK parameters were consistent 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 37/172 
 
  
  
 
with previous study results in both healthy subjects and younger patients with T2DM. In population PK analyses 
age was among the examined covariates but no significant effect was found. 
It needs to be noted that there were very few patients older than 75 years in the PK, PD studies. In the Phase 
2 and 3 studies there were in total 115 (1.9%) patients ≥75yrs and only three >85yrs 
Interactions 
The elimination of dulaglutide is expected to be through proteolytic degradation into its amino acid components 
and is not anticipated to be eliminated intact in the urine or to be metabolized by the CYP enzymes. Therefore, 
PK interactions with drugs primarily renally eliminated or metabolized by CYP enzymes are unlikely.  However, 
dulaglutide causes a delay in gastric emptying, a well known effect of the class, which may alter the PK of orally 
co-administered drugs. Consequently, the clinical pharmacology program included drug-drug interaction studies 
for  a  number  of  agents  relevant  to  the  T2DM  population:  acetaminophen,  lisinopril,  metoprolol,  warfarin, 
metformin, digoxin, atorvastatin, oral contraceptives, and sitagliptin.   
The following forest plot graph is showing the observed effect of dulaglutide on the various examined drugs 
together with the Applicant recommendations for possible need of relevant dose adjustments. The results of the 
individual studies are discussed in more detail below.  
Figure 4 Potential for dulaglutide to influence the exposure (AUC or Cmax) of co-administered drugs 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 38/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Study H9X-MC-GBCH evaluated the effect of dulaglutide (1mg or 3mg, at steady state) on gastric emptying 
using acetaminophen PK as a surrogate. For both 1 and 3 mg dulaglutide dose groups there was no statistically 
significant  effect  on  acetaminophen  AUC(0-24)  when  administered  with  dulaglutide  compared  to  baseline. 
However,  the  rate  of  gastric  emptying  was  slower  following  the  first  dose  of  1  and  3  mg  dulaglutide,  with 
acetaminophen  Cmax  reduced  by  36%  and  50%,  respectively,  and  the  median  tmax  occurring  statistically 
significantly later (3 and 4 hours, respectively). Overall, the greatest impact on the rate of gastric emptying was 
observed after the first dose of dulaglutide, while at steady state dulaglutide had no significant effect on the rate 
and extent of acetaminophen exposure. Based on these observations, it was concluded that no dose adjustment 
for acetaminophen is necessary when given together with 1.5 mg dulaglutide.  
Lisinopril and metoprolol 
Study  H9X-MC-GBCO  was  a  two-part  (conducted  in  parallel)  study  that  examined  the  effect  of  dulaglutide 
(weekly doses of 1.5 mg dulaglutide for 4 weeks) on the PK of lisinopril (Part 1) in hypertensive patients and also 
assessed the effect of dulaglutide on haemodynamics and PK of metoprolol (Part 2) in healthy volunteers. Part 
1 found no significant effect of dulaglutide on lisinopril PK. Statistically significant delays in lisinopril tmax of 
approximately 1 hour observed on Days 3 and 24 consistent with dulaglutide-induced delay in gastric emptying 
were not considered clinically relevant. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) in hypertensive subjects 
taking  lisinopril  revealed  statistically  significant  increases  in  heart  rate  HR  when  co-administered  with 
dulaglutide on Days 3 and 24 but no clinically significant effect on blood pressure.  
There was a statistically significant increase in metoprolol exposure with dulaglutide (19% for AUCτ and 32% for 
Cmax). However, this increase in exposure was small compared to the much larger observed metoprolol PK 
variability (up to 69%). It is agreed that for metoprolol succinate with a wide therapeutic window an increase in 
exposure  by  about  20%  and  of  Cmax  by  about  30%  may  not  be  clinically  relevant.  For  prolonged  release 
formulations of drugs with a small therapeutic window, the relevance remains to be individually determined. 
Dulaglutide delayed metoprolol tmax by 1 hour.  
In general it was noted that an extended gastric residence time induced by dulaglutide may cause an increase 
in the release rate of a prolonged release formulation and thereby an increase in drug exposure. Albeit this 
depends on the type of extended release formulations there may be drugs with a smaller therapeutic window, 
where the effect may be relevant.  
The ABPM data in this healthy subject population showed a significant increase from baseline in LS mean HR 
when dulaglutide was administered alone while administration of metoprolol alone lowered LS mean 24-hour HR 
from  baseline by  -7.74 bpm. An increase in  HR was observed  following  co-administration of  the  two  drugs, 
although to a lesser degree than following dulaglutide alone. Overall, no dose adjustments are proposed by the 
Applicant for either lisinopril or metoprolol when co-administered with dulaglutide. The PD data with metoprolol 
indicate that dulaglutide decreased the effect of metoprolol on diastolic blood pressure. The possible impact is 
not considered clinically relevant, since the increase in DBP was counterbalanced by a decrease in SBP leaving 
the mean BP largely unaffected. 
Atorvastatin 
Study H9X-MC-GBCP assessed the effect of dulaglutide (single 1.5 mg SC dose) on atorvastatin (single 40 mg 
dose)  PK  in  healthy  subjects.  The  absorption  of  atorvastatin  was  delayed  when  taken  with  dulaglutide with 
median tmax observed on average 2.5 hours later. The exposure of atorvastatin and  o-hydroxyatorvastatin 
decreased,  by  up  to  70%  for  Cmax  and  21%  for  AUC(0-∞)  respectively.  Mean  t1/2  of  atorvastatin  and 
o-hydroxyatorvastatin were 17% and 41% longer after dulaglutide administration respectively. The changes in 
atorvastatin PK and its active metabolite PK were not considered by the Applicant to be of clinical significance 
and no dose adjustment is recommended when given together with 1.5 mg dulaglutide. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 39/172 
 
  
  
Oral contraceptives 
Study  H9X-MC-GBCQ  assessed  the  effect  of  dulaglutide  (single  1.5  mg  SC  dose)  on  steady  state  PK  of 
Ortho-Cyclen (OCY) a combination oral contraceptive (OC) of norgestimate (NGM) and ethinyl estradiol (EE) in 
22 healthy female subjects. There was no significant effect of dulaglutide on the overall exposure (measured as 
AUC[0-τ] or AUC[0-∞]) to norelgestromin (NGMN), NGM’s major metabolite, and EE with the 90% CIs of the 
ratio  of  geometric  LS  means  falling  within  the  0.80  to  1.25  range  for  both.  However,  dulaglutide  caused 
statistically significant reductions in the Cmax and increases in the tmax of both NGMN and EE. For NGMN an 
approximately 26% reduction in mean Cmax was observed, with the median tmax being increased by 2 hours. 
A smaller effect was observed for EE, with an approximately 13% reduction in mean Cmax and an increase in 
median tmax of 0.30 hours. 
These observations were not considered clinically relevant considering the large inter-subject variability in the 
concentrations of OCs. Thus, based on PK, no dose adjustment for oral contraceptives is considered necessary 
when given together with 1.5 mg dulaglutide. The co-administration of dulaglutide and OCY was generally well 
tolerated; however, there was a higher incidence of vomiting and nausea following dulaglutide administration 
than for OCY alone.  
Digoxin 
Study H9X-MC-GBCR examined the effect of dulaglutide (single 1.5 mg SC dose) on digoxin PK at steady state 
in 24 healthy subjects (16 males and 8 females). PK parameters revealed no effect on digoxin steady-state AUCτ 
or tmax. Reductions of up to 22% and 17% in digoxin Cmax occurred following the first and second dulaglutide 
doses, respectively which was not considered clinically important. Dulaglutide was generally well tolerated. The 
AEs reported were mild in severity, and the most frequently observed were gastrooeosophageal reflux disease, 
nausea, first degree AV block, decreased appetite, and vomiting. Overall, dulaglutide administration did not 
affect  digoxin  PK  in  a  clinically  relevant  way  and  no  dose  adjustment  is  considered  necessary  when  given 
together. However, as with OCY, as mentioned above, serious GI adverse effects may affect digoxin absorption. 
Furthermore,  there  was  a  higher  rate  and  number  of  patients  with  first  degree  heart  block  after 
co-administration  of  digoxin  and  dulaglutide.  This  is  consistent  with  the  finding  of  a  PR  prolongation  in  the 
thorough QT study GBCC (see below).  
Warfarin 
Study H9X-MC-GBCS examined the effect of dulaglutide (single 1.5 mg SC dose) on the PK of S- and R-warfarin 
(single warfarin 10 mg dose) in 28 healthy subjects (24 males and 4 females). Dulaglutide co-administration did 
not  affect  the  AUC(0-∞)  of  S-  and  R-warfarin,  or  the  Cmax  for  R-warfarin.  The  results  for  AUClast  were 
consistent  with the results for AUC(0-∞).  However,  an  approximate 22%  decrease  in S-warfarin  Cmax  was 
observed. Dulaglutide also caused a significant increase in the tmax of S- and R-warfarin. The mean INR profiles 
for warfarin  were similar  whether warfarin  was given  alone, or in combination with dulaglutide. Dulaglutide 
treatment did cause a small increase in AUCINR (warfarin+dulaglutide vs warfarin: LS means 1.02, 90% CI [1.01 
to 1.03]) that was not considered to be clinically relevant. Dulaglutide treatment had no significant effect on 
INRmax but there there was a delay in the time to INRmax of approximately 6 hours, consistent with the delays 
in tmax of approximately 4 and 6 hours for S- and R-warfarin respectively. The recalculation of the ratio of 
geometric LS means for INRAUC before and after co-administration of warfarin with dulaglutide by excluding the 
three subjects that were only available for the 10 mg warfarin treatment were consistent with a statistically 
significant, but clinically irrelevant increase in INR. 
The  most  commonly  reported  treatment-related  AEs  overall  were  nausea,  vomiting,  and  paraesthesia,  with 
other  less  frequently  reported  AEs  including  decreased  appetite,  diarrhoea,  headache  and  somnolence  with 
higher incidence following dulaglutide administration.  It was concluded that based on the overall PK, PD, safety, 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 40/172 
 
  
  
and  tolerability  data  in  healthy  subjects,  dose  adjustment  for  warfarin  when  given  with  dulaglutide  is  not 
necessary. 
Sitagliptin 
Study H9X-MC-GBDW assessed the effect of 1.5 mg dulaglutide on the PK of sitagliptin (100 mg sitagliptin for 
18 days) and also the effect of sitagliptin on dulaglutide PK in 29 patients with T2DM (19 males and 10 females). 
Sitagliptin AUC(0-τ) was not affected after co-administration of a single dulaglutide dose. Sitagliptin AUC(0-τ) 
and Cmax decreased by approximately 7.4% and 23.1%, respectively, following co-administration of sitagliptin 
with 2 doses of dulaglutide compared to sitagliptin alone. There was a median increase of approximately 0.5 
hours in sitagliptin tmax following co-administration with the first or second dose of dulaglutide compared to 
sitagliptin alone. These changes are not expected to be clinically significant.  
Sitagliptin  100  mg  at  steady  state  increased  dulaglutide  exposure  (AUC)  approximately  38%,  Cmax  by 
approximately 27%, and median tmax by approximately 24 hours. These changes along with the observed delay 
in  tmax  with  sitagliptin  likely  reflect  the  inhibition  of  DPP-4  activity  by  sitagliptin  resulting  in  decreased 
dulaglutide  hydrolysis.  Generally,  co-administration  of  the  two  drugs  was  well  tolerated  and  there  were  no 
significant safety concerns. It was concluded that weekly injections of dulaglutide may be co-administered with 
sitagliptin without need for dose adjustment. Overall, the moderate PK interaction and the provided indirect 
external  evidence  do  not  support  a  dose  reduction  of  dulaglutide  or  sitagliptin,  when  administered 
concomitantly. However, the SmPC (section 4.5) includes information about a potentially additive effect and 
that the increased exposure with sitagliptin may enhance the effects of dulaglutide on blood glucose levels. 
 Metformin 
The placebo-controlled, multiple dose Study H9X-EW-GBDM evaluated the effect of dulaglutide on metformin 
PK  at  steady  state  as  well  as  the  effect  of  dulaglutide  on  gastric  emptying  using  scintigraphy  (see  Primary 
pharmacology below) in 38 patients with T2DM (31 males and 7 females).  Metformin exposure (AUCτ) appeared 
to  be  higher  by  approximately  15%  following  administration  of  dulaglutide  but  no  statistically  significant 
changes in metformin AUCτ or tmax compared to placebo occurred at any study time point. The changes were 
well within the observed PK variability of metformin (approximately 50%), similar to those seen after placebo, 
and therefore not considered to be clinically relevant. Dulaglutide did not affect metformin tmax. Only 1 patient 
taking extended release metformin was eligible for inclusion in the PK population; therefore, insufficient data 
were available to draw conclusions about the extended release formulation.  
Multiple  subcutaneous  doses  of  1.5  mg  dulaglutide  were  moderately  well-tolerated.  A  total  of  156  AEs 
considered  related  to  investigational  product  (dulaglutide  or  placebo)  were  reported  by  22  (58%)  patients 
during the study and all of these were resolved by the end of the study. The majority of these (136) were mild 
in severity and 4 events were severe. More than half of the related AEs were classified as GI disorders. Overall, 
it was concluded that weekly injections of dulaglutide may be co-administered with metformin without need for 
metformin dose adjustment.   
The safety analysis addressing the co-administration of metformin and dulaglutide in phase 3 is reassuring (see 
Safety section below). Overall the rate of AEs was higher in study GBCF than in GBDC. Irrespectively of known 
cross-study variability related to design, treatment duration and patient characteristics this may reflect in part 
the accumulation of the AEs of both drugs. Of note, in the cross-study comparison the rate of hypoglycaemia 
was similar between dulaglutide 1.5 mg + metformin (12.8%, GBCF) and metformin alone (12.7%, GBDC) and 
in the PK/PD analysis metformin was not identified as a significant covariate for safety and efficacy. Therefore, 
overall no significant safety concerns were identified related to the co-administration in clinical studies.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 41/172 
 
  
  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Dulaglutide activates the GLP-1 receptor which is widely expressed in the pancreas and has been shown to be a 
valid  therapeutic  target  in  type  2  diabetes  mellitus.  The  physiological  GLP-1  receptor  agonist,  GLP-1,  is  a 
hormone (incretin) which is secreted from the L-cells of the gastrointestinal tract following ingestion of a meal. 
A number of studies have demonstrated the key pharmacodynamic effects of GLP-1 and its analogs indicating a 
significant role on the metabolism of nutrients, increase of intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP) 
in pancreatic beta cells leading to insulin release in the presence of high glucose levels, suppression of glucagon 
secretion, delaying of gastric emptying, and reducing body weight.  
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
Fasting and Postprandial Glucose 
Dulaglutide improves glycaemic control by lowering fasting and postprandial glucose concentrations. In initial 
clinical pharmacology studies in patients with T2DM, statistically significant and clinically relevant reductions in 
fasting  and  postprandial  glucose  (LS  mean  differences  of  up  to  -38  mg/dL  and  -95  mg/dL,  respectively) 
compared to placebo were observed for 7 days after single 1 to 6 mg dulaglutide doses (Study H9X-JE-GBCB in 
Japanese patients; Figures 5 a and b).  
Figures  5  a  and  b. Mean changes in fasting plasma glucose (a) and post-prandial plasma glucose (b) from 
baseline; Study H9X-JE-GBCB 
(a) Fasting blood glucose 
(b) Post prandial plasma glucose 
Similar effects were also seen in the multiple dose study H9X-MC-GBCD in patients with T2DM (see Absorption 
above) after once weekly dosing of 0.05 to 8 mg for 5 weeks. Glycaemic reductions (fasting and postprandial) 
were apparent from Day 3 (approximately 48 hours after the first dose) and were either sustained or showed 
further reduction for the duration of the study. After 5 weeks statistically significant and clinically meaningful 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 42/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
reductions compared to placebo occurred in fasting glucose with doses above 1mg (up to -74 mg/dL), PPG (up 
to -108 mg/dL), and gAUC (up to -411 mg·h/dL) (Table 8).  
Table  8  Fasting  and  Postprandial  and  AUC  of  Glucose  Relative  to  Placebo  After  5  Weeks  of  Dulaglutide 
(LY2189265) Dosing; Study H9X-MC-GBCD 
Treatment 
Fasting Plasma Glucose 
n 
Week 5 
Placebo 
0.05 mg LY 
0.3 mg LY 
1 mg LY 
3 mg LY 
5 mg LY 
8 mg LY 
22 
4 
12 
10 
4 
16 
8 
Postprandial Glucose at 2h 
n 
Treatment 
169.57 
140.38 
154.02 
125.10 
115.67 
123.56 
95.64 
Week 5 
Placebo 
0.05 mg LY 
0.3 mg LY 
1 mg LY 
3 mg LY 
5 mg LY 
8 mg LY 
Treatment 
Placebo 
0.05 mg LY 
0.3 mg LY 
1 mg LY 
3 mg LY 
5 mg LY 
8 mg LY 
22 
4 
12 
10 
4 
16 
8 
Glucose AUC 
n 
22 
4 
12 
10 
4 
16 
8 
245.59 
198.90 
225.67 
152.76 
163.65 
173.54 
138.04 
Week 5 
880.45 
729.89 
782.46 
575.04 
594.14 
612.39 
469.05 
Comparison to Placebo 
90% C.I. 
P-value 
Diff. 
-29.19 
-15.55 
-44.47 
-53.90 
-46.01 
-73.93 
Diff. 
-46.68 
-19.91 
-92.83 
-81.94 
-72.05 
-107.5 
Diff. 
(-53.19, -5.20) 
(-32.86, 1.75) 
(-62.52, -26.43) 
(-78.15, -29.65) 
(-61.45, -30.57) 
(-92.33, -55.54) 
Comparison to Placebo 
90% C.I. 
(-90.24, -3.13) 
(-50.58, 10.76) 
(-124.7, -60.94) 
(-126.1, -37.75) 
(-99.94, -44.16) 
(-140.5, -74.59) 
Comparison to Placebo 
90% C.I. 
-150.56 
-97.99 
-305.42 
-286.32 
-268.07 
-411.40 
(-282.38, -18.74) 
(-190.74, -5.24) 
(-401.84, -208.99) 
(-420.39, -152.24) 
(-352.59, -183.54) 
(-511.23, -311.58) 
0.05 
0.14 
<.01 
<.01 
<.01 
<.01 
P-value 
0.08 
0.28 
<.01 
<.01 
<.01 
<.01 
P-value 
0.06 
0.08 
<.01 
<.01 
<.01 
<.01 
Model: Value = Baseline + Day + Dose + Day*Dose + (Subject) + (error)  
In Study H9X-MC-GBCT elderly patients with T2DM who received once weekly 1.5 mg doses for 6 weeks had 
fasting glucose concentrations, 2-hour PPG concentrations, and post-prandial serum gAUC significantly reduced 
compared  to  placebo  (-25.6  mg/dL,  -59.5  mg/dL,  and  -197  mg.h/dL,  respectively).  These  effects  were 
sustained  throughout  the  entire  6-week  period.  Similarly,  in  patients  with  T2DM  who  received  once  weekly 
doses  of  1.5  mg  doses  for  4  weeks  (Study  H9X-EW-GBDM),  general  glucose  reductions  were  sustained 
throughout the 4- week period.  
HbA1c 
Decreases  in  HbA1c  were  observed  in  patients  with  T2DM  in  3  multiple  dose  clinical pharmacology 
studies. Significant reductions in HbA1c of up to -1.38% (mean baseline HbA1c 5.6% to 10.2%) were seen after 
once weekly dulaglutide dosing for 5 weeks compared to placebo in Study H9X-MC-GBCD (0.05, 1, 3, 5, and 8 
mg  doses;  see  above)  and  Study  H9X-JE-GBCL  in  Japanese  patients  (1.0,  1.5  mg  doses).  Similarly, 
significant reductions  in  HbA1c  of  up  to  -0.55%  (mean  baseline  HbA1c  6.7%  to  7.3%)  compared  to 
placebo were observed after once weekly 0.5, 0.75 and 1.5 mg dulaglutide dosing for 6 weeks in elderly patients 
in Study H9X-MC-GBCT (Table 9).   
Table  9 Summary of the HbA1c (%) Following Subcutaneous Administration of Dulaglutide (LY2189265) or 
Placebo as Once-weekly Doses for 6 weeks; Study H9X-MC-GBCT 
Treatment  
Arithmetic Mean (SD)  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 43/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Placebo  
(N=8)  
0.5 mg dulaglutide 
(N=9)  
0.75 mg dulaglutide 
(N=11)  
1.5 mg dulaglutide 
(N=9)  
Day -1 
6.73  
(0.43)  
7.26  
(0.84)  
6.92  
(0.40)  
6.83  
(0.52)  
a Baseline is defined as Day -1; b N=8 
Day 36 
6.68  
(0.38)  
6.64  
(0.60)  
6.44  
(0.47)  
6.14b  
(0.47)  
Change from Baselinea 
-0.05  
(0.32)  
-0.61  
(0.31)  
-0.48  
(0.24)  
-0.60b  
(0.37)  
Insulin Secretion 
Study H9X-MC-GBCI assessed the effect of dulaglutide on first and second phase insulin secretion in response 
to an IV glucose challenge, as well as the effect of dulaglutide on β-cell function in 22 patients with T2DM (15 
males and 7 females) and 10 healthy controls (7 males and 3 females).  
In both healthy subjects and subjects with T2DM, mean first- and second-phase insulin and C-peptide secretion 
in  response  to  a  50%  dextrose  bolus  appeared  to  be  enhanced  following  SC  administration  of  1.5  mg 
dulaglutide,  as  compared  with  placebo.  Also  mean  glucose  levels  following  the  dextrose  bolus  appeared  to 
return  to  baseline  more  rapidly  following  administration  of  dulaglutide,  as  compared  with  placebo,  in  both 
groups.  
Figure  6 Mean plasma insulin concentrations after dulaglutide or placebo administration to healthy subjects 
(left panel) and patients with type 2 diabetes; Study H9X-MC-GBCI 
Mean Homeostasis Model Assessment–β-Cell Function (HOMA-B) measured at baseline showed a trend towards 
being higher in healthy subjects than in T2DM patients. In the T2DM group, HOMA-B (ratio to Day 1; measured 
pre insulin infusion on Day 3) was statistically significantly different between treatments, with higher values 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 44/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
observed following administration of 1.5 mg dulaglutide compared to placebo. In healthy subjects, HOMA-B was 
not significantly different between treatments. HOMA-B was also not significantly different between subjects 
with T2DM and healthy subjects following administration of dulaglutide or placebo.  
In the multiple-dose study H9X-MC-GBCT in elderly T2DM patients, testing 3 dose levels of dulaglutide (0.5, 
0.75, or 1.5 mg) on Days 3 and 38, plasma insulin  AUC, fasting concentrations, and 2  hour post-breakfast 
concentrations were higher than placebo following all dose levels of dulaglutide although there was no clear 
dose-related effect on plasma insulin concentrations on either day. On both Days 3 and 38, serum C-peptide 
AUC, fasting concentrations, and 2 hour post-breakfast concentrations were higher than placebo following all 
dulaglutide dose levels. Marked increases from baseline in mean plasma insulin levels of up to 60.63 pmol/L 
were also observed after once weekly 1.5 mg doses in patients with T2DM in Study H9X-EW-GBDM. 
Glucagon Secretion  
Dulaglutide can lower blood glucose by stimulating insulin secretion but also by decreasing glucagon secretion. 
In the Phase 3 Study H9X-MC-GBDC (see Efficacy section below), LS mean decreases from baseline in fasting 
glucagon of -2.05 pmol/L were observed at the 26-week time point after once weekly dulaglutide 1.5 mg dosing. 
In  addition,  decreases  in  postprandial  glucagon  AUC  (0-3  hours  post-meal)  were  observed  following  a 
standardized test meal in this study. After 26 and 52 weeks of treatment with dulaglutide 1.5 mg, LS mean 
decreases in Glucagon AUC from baseline were -5.91 pmol.h/L and - 8.04 pmol.h/L, respectively. 
Gastric Emptying 
Delaying gastric emptying is a known effect of this class and suggested as one of the factors contributing to 
glucose lowering but also to weight loss. The effect on gastric emptying of dulaglutide was examined in 3 clinical 
pharmacology studies (Studies H9X-MC-GBCH, H9X-MC-GBCD, and H9X-EW-GBDM). In Study H9X-MC-GBCH, 
as described in the Interactions section above, at steady state 1 and 3 mg dulaglutide had no clinically significant 
effect  on  the  rate  or  extent  of  gastric  emptying  based  on  acetaminophen  PK;  however,  the  rate  of  gastric 
emptying was slower following the first dose of 1 and 3 mg dulaglutide, with reduced acetaminophen Cmax by 
36% and 50%, respectively, and significantly delayed acetaminophen tmax by 3 and 4 hours, respectively. In 
Study H9X-MC-GBCD that also tested the effect of a range of dulaglutide doses 0.05 to 8 mg on gastric emptying 
oral acetaminophen in T2DM patients the changes to acetaminophen exposures in the absence and presence of 
dulaglutide suggested that gastric emptying was delayed by dulaglutide by up to 2.3 hours in average with the 
highest (8mg) dose.  
Study H9X-EW-GBDM evaluated the effect of dulaglutide (1.5 mg SC for 4 weeks) on gastric emptying using 
scintigraphy. Repeat scintigraphy (following a radiolabeled breakfast) at the time of the expected dulaglutide 
tmax showed, statistically significant delays in gastric emptying rate following each of four 1.5 mg dulaglutide 
doses compared to baseline. The greatest delay was observed after the first dose, with a mean increase in the 
primary endpoint of time required for 50% of activity to empty from the stomach (t50) of approximately 2 hours 
from Day 3 to Day 10. The t50 values showed a trend to decrease from the second dose onwards, with mean t50 
values following 2, 3, and 4 doses of 1.5 mg dulaglutide (Days 17, 24, and 31) being 88%, 87%, and 84%, 
respectively, of that after the first dose (Day 10). 
Figure 7 Arithmetic mean % residual activity data by day [Placebo (1); dulaglutide (2)]; Study H9X-EW-GBDM 
(1) Fasting blood glucose 
(2) Post prandial plasma glucose 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 45/172 
 
  
  
 
In addition to the above a visual analog scale (VAS) comprising 4 questions completed by patients every hour for 
12 hours following each radiolabeled meal to assess satiety showed a good correlation with the scintigraphy 
data. Patients who received dulaglutide reported a statistically significant decrease in hunger on all days with 
dulaglutide compared to baseline, which was not observed in the placebo group.  
Body Weight  
Changes  in  body  weight  after  administration  of  multiple  doses  of  dulaglutide  to  patients  with  T2DM  were 
evaluated as a secondary  efficacy measure  in 4  clinical pharmacology studies. In the first study, significant 
reductions of up to about 3 kg were noted after 5 weeks of once weekly 5 and 8 mg dulaglutide dosing compared 
to placebo in diabetic patients (H9X-MC-GBCD). In the second study (H9X-JE-GBCL; Japanese patients), body 
weight tended to be lower after 5 weeks of once weekly 1.0 and 1.5 mg dulaglutide dosing but no statistically 
significant differences were observed relative to placebo. In the third study H9X-MC-GBCT in elderly patients, a 
decrease from baseline of up to 3 kg in body weight occurred at all dulaglutide dose levels after once weekly 0.5, 
1.0,  and  1.5  mg  dosing  for  6  weeks,  although  the  change  was  not  statistically  significantly  different  from 
placebo.  The  fourth  study  (H9X-EW-GBDM)  showed  no  clinically  significant  changes  in  body  weight  for 
individual patients during 5 weeks of treatment with dulaglutide (despite some effects on satiety, as described 
above). The effects of dulaglutide on body weight are further considered in the Efficacy section. 
Secondary pharmacology 
QT interval 
H9X-MC-GBCC was a thorough QT study in 147 healthy subjects (83 males and 64 females) to determine the 
effect of dulaglutide, at a supratherapeutic dose, on QT. Subjects were randomly assigned to 1 of 6 crossover 
treatment  sequences  and  received  single  doses  of  SC  dulaglutide,  400  mg  moxifloxacin,  and  placebo  on  3 
separate occasions. The initial planned dose of dulaglutide was 7mg. However, this dose was poorly tolerated 
(high incidence of nausea, and 1 subject diagnosed with pancreatitis). Therefore, after 54 subjects had received 
the 7mg dose for the rest of the study the dose was reduced to 4mg which was also not well tolerated with a high 
incidence of nausea and vomiting and 3 subjects presenting with pancreatitis; therefore, dosing was temporarily 
suspended and the study was formally discontinued after 55 subjects had received the 4 mg dose. At the time 
that dosing was suspended, 147 healthy subjects had completed at least 1 of the dosing periods, 54 of whom 
received 7 mg dulaglutide, and 55 subjects of whom received 4 mg dulaglutide. Eighty subjects received all 3 
treatments and completed the study.  
To  establish  assay  sensitivity  for  the  study,  moxifloxacin’s  effect  on  QTc  interval  was  compared  to  that  of 
placebo using data from subjects who received the 4 mg dulaglutide dose level. However, based on the lower 
limit of the 2-sided 90% CI for the mean difference between moxifloxacin and placebo, was <5 msec at 2 and 4 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 46/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
hours  postdose  (time  of  highest  moxifloxacin  concentration)  for  each  QT  correction  and  therefore,  assay 
sensitivity  could  not  be  established,  according  to the  criteria  outlined  in  the  Statistical  Analysis  Plan  (SAP). 
However, assay sensitivity could be established if data from subjects scheduled to receive 4 or 7 mg dulaglutide 
were included. 
For the primary QT correction method, model based QTc interval, the upper limit of the 2-sided 90% CI for the 
mean difference between 4mg dulaglutide and placebo ranged from -0.7 to -6.2 ms. Similarly, for all other QT 
correction  methods,  QTcF,  QTcI,  and  QTcP,  the  upper  limit  of  the  2-sided  90%  CI  for  the  mean  difference 
between 4 mg dulaglutide and placebo was below 10 ms (range: -0.9 to -8.4 ms). No individual subject had an 
absolute QTc interval >480 ms or a time-matched increase of >30 ms from baseline in QTc following single 
doses of 4 and 7 mg dulaglutide. No positive correlation was detected between placebo-corrected changes from 
baseline in QTc interval and dulaglutide plasma concentrations. 
Figure 8 LS mean (90% CI) difference in change from baseline in QTc interval following administration of 4 and 
7 mg dulaglutide and 400 mg moxifloxacin versus placebo; Study H9X-MC-GBCC 
Statistically significant increases in mean PR interval from baseline were observed following both 4 mg and 7 mg 
dulaglutide administration compared to placebo. The mean QRS interval following dulaglutide administration 
(both 4 mg and 7 mg) tended to be shorter than following moxifloxacin or placebo.  
In general, GBCC was a large study by the number of subjects included (n=147) with limited success. While the 
study  overall  did  not  find  any  evidence  of  QT  prolongation  there  are  a  number  of  limitations  including  the 
intolerance seen with the higher doses that led to a large number of withdrawals (n=67) nearly 45% of the total 
subjects and the small effect noted with the moxifloxacin 400mg on QT and QTc. The effect size here was smaller 
than  anticipated  and  smaller  than  the  majority  of  other  thorough  QT  studies;  therefore,  the  study  failed  to 
provide adequate evidence of assay sensitivity. There could be several reasons for this, including study conduct 
and the population included but it is unclear if a specific reason could be ascribed.  
Notwithstanding the above, the study did not show any evidence of prolongation of QT interval with dulaglutide. 
The correction formulae and model parameters appear adequate and appropriate.  There is a consistency of 
effect (or lack of effect i.e., prolongation) across different correction methods and these have been described 
adequately.  The  interesting  aspect  of  the  study  is the  number  of  effects  on  different  parameters of  cardiac 
conduction that are noted in the study. There is the small change in heart rate (increase in HR) and a consistent 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 47/172 
 
  
  
 
 
effect of shortening of QT, the magnitude varying with the correction method. Moreover, there is persistent PR 
prolongation of notable magnitude. While the increase in HR might be a potential mechanism for an apparent 
shortening of QT, the persistence after correction with different formulae remains unexplained and one wonders 
if there is an alternative mechanism for this observation. As Dulaglutide is a protein molecule, hERG related 
effect  (see  also  Non-Clinical  report)  is  unlikely  and effect  on  other  ion  channels  would  need to  be  explored 
although  the  probability  of  such  an  ion  channel  mediated  effect  is  fairly  small.  No  other  ion  channels  were 
studied during the development program.  
Overall, the thorough QT study has a number of limitations and there is a slight increase in heart rate and effects 
on conduction system and cardiac repolarisation, including persistent PR prolongation and QT shortening. These 
are  inconsistent  for  any  one  mechanism  especially  hERG  mediated.  Generally,  the  effects  of  dulaglutide  on 
cardiac repolarisation and conduction system remain uncertain. However, the relevant findings from the clinical 
studies appear to be generally consistent with the rest of the class and the overall data so far do not raise any 
major  safety  concerns  (see  Safety  section).  Nevertheless,  this  is  an  issue  that  will  need  to  remain  under 
monitoring.  
Heart rate and blood pressure 
Study  H9X-MC-GBDN  was  a  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind,  parallel-arm,  26-week  treatment, 
placebo-controlled study that evaluated the effects of 1.5- and 0.75-mg doses of dulaglutide on blood pressure 
(BP) and heart rate (HR), using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM), in patients with T2DM receiving 
oral  antihyperglycaemic  medications  (OAMs).  The  study  included  a  2-week  screening  and  lead-in  period, 
followed by a 26-week treatment period, and a 4-week safety follow-up period. 755 patients were randomized; 
630 patients completed the treatment period (placebo: 206; dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 199; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 
225). A circadian rhythm model was developed for each ABPM variable (systolic BP, diastolic BP, and HR) using 
data from the placebo treated arm of the study.  
Both  doses  of  dulaglutide  were  found  noninferior  to  placebo  for  mean  24-hour  SBP  at  16  weeks,  using  a 
noninferiority margin of 3 mmHg. The dulaglutide 1.5 mg dose was shown to significantly reduce mean 24-hour 
SBP compared to placebo at 16 weeks (-2.8 mmHg; p<.001) and at 26 weeks (-2.7 mmHg; p=.002). Both doses 
of dulaglutide were shown to be noninferior to placebo for mean 24-hour DBP at 16 and 26 weeks, using a 
noninferiority  margin  of  2.5  mmHg.  Dulaglutide  0.75  mg  was  shown  to  be  noninferior  to  placebo  for  mean 
24-hour HR at 16 and 26 weeks, using a noninferiority margin of 3 bpm. Dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared with 
placebo did not satisfy the noninferiority criteria, and small increases in HR were observed at 16 weeks (2.84 
bpm) and at 26 weeks (3.50 bpm). 
None  of  the  demographic  factors  tested:  age,  body  weight,  BMI,  sex,  ethnic  origin,  smoking  status, 
hypertensive  status,  baseline  ABPM  value,  anti-hypertensive  medication  use  (ACE  inhibitor,  angiotensin 
receptor  blocker,  beta  blocker,  calcium  channel  blocker,  or  diuretic),  and  geographic  region,  were  found  to 
influence  the  relationship  between  dulaglutide  concentration  and  ambulatory  systolic  BP  response.  No 
relationship was found between dulaglutide concentration and ambulatory diastolic BP. Ambulatory systolic BP 
was  found  to  decrease  with  increasing  dulaglutide  concentration.  These  issues  are  further  discussed  in  the 
Safety section. 
Immunogenicity 
All clinical pharmacology study subjects were tested for the presence and titer of anti-drug antibodies (ADA) for 
dulaglutide. Serum samples were collected prior to the first dulaglutide or placebo dose and at least 3 weeks 
after the last dose. The incidence of subjects with positive ADA for all clinical pharmacology studies was very 
low. The few subjects found with positive ADA titers had also positive titers prior to receiving dulaglutide as well 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 48/172 
 
  
  
 
 
as  at  follow-up  and,  therefore,  were  not  considered  related  to  dulaglutide.  No  subject  in  the  clinical 
pharmacology studies developed treatment emergent dulaglutide ADA, defined as a 4-fold increase compared 
with baseline.  
In the population analyses performed using the Phase 2 and Phase 3 data, dulaglutide concentrations associated 
with positive antibody titers (defined as any titer with a positive result) were analyzed for patients in the 1.5 mg 
and 0.75 mg treatment arms. The percentage of concentrations with positive titers in both the Phase 2 and 
Phase  3  analyses  relative  to  the  overall  concentration  dataset  was  small  (<4%  in  all  cases).  Overall,  no 
association was found between dulaglutide concentrations and positive antibody titers.  
Table 10 Percent of Dulaglutide Concentrations with Positive ADA Titers by Database and by Dose 
Database  
Dulaglutide Doses  
Phase 2  
Phase 3  
0.75 mg  
1.5 mg  
0.75 mg  
1.5 mg  
% of concentration samples with 
positive ADA titers 
1.8  
3.8  
2.6  
2.5  
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
Fasting Plasma Glucose and HbA1c 
A concentration-response model was developed to fit FPG and HbA1c data. The time course of FPG response 
over  the  course  of  two  years  was  described  using  a  disease  progression  model.  The  model  estimated  that 
dulaglutide  may  normalize  HbA1c  to  goal,  to  a  minimum  value  of  approximately  6%.  The  concentration  to 
achieve 50% of maximum HbA1c reduction (EC50) was 22.0 ng/mL, with an inter-subject variability of 25.1% 
(%CV). The model described the observed data well. For both tested dose levels 0.75mg and 1.5mg, the time 
course  of  the  response  to  dulaglutide  for  HbA1c  and  FPG  showed  that  the  decrease  from  baseline  in  both 
measures was sustained throughout the 104-week endpoint. Model-estimated reductions from baseline in FPG 
and HbA1c for the 1.5 mg dose of dulaglutide at 26, 52 and 104 weeks for the Phase 3 data were -2.2 mM (-40 
mg/dL) and -1.2%, -1.9 mM (-35 mg/dL) and -1.1%, and -1.3 mM (-23 mg/dL) and -0.77%, respectively. 
Exposure-response  and  dose-response  relationships  of  both  Phase  2  and  Phase  3  data  were  consistent  in 
demonstrating a decrease for both FPG and HbA1c with increasing dulaglutide concentrations and doses at both 
the  52-week  (Figure  9)  and  104-week  endpoints.  The  dose-response  relationship  showed  good  agreement 
between the Phase 2 model prediction and the Phase 3 observed data, with an 18% and 31% greater glycaemic 
effect for the 1.5 mg dose relative to the 0.75 mg dose at the 52- and 104-week endpoints respectively.  
Figure 9 Exposure-response relationships for fasting plasma glucose (top) and HbA1c (bottom) at 52 weeks; 
for absolute values (left) and change from baseline (right). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 49/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Study- or patient-specific factors were evaluated for significance on parameters related to drug response due to 
their clinical relevance in patients with diabetes. Of all the covariates tested, those that influenced the effect of 
dulaglutide on glycaemic control were co-administration of TZDs and baseline FPG. Patients taking TZDs had a 
larger change at 12 months compared to the rest for both FPG and HbA1c. 
Body Weight 
The observed effect of dulaglutide on body weight was well described using an indirect response model. The 
phase  exposure-response  relationship  demonstrated  a  decrease  in  body  weight  with  increasing  dulaglutide 
concentration with estimated changes from baseline in body weight at 52 weeks of -1.7 kg for the 1.5 mg dose 
of dulaglutide and -1.4 kg for the 0.75 mg dose. The dose-response relationship estimated a slightly greater 
weight loss for the 1.5 mg dose relative to the 0.75 mg dose and a good agreement between the Phase 3 and 
Phase  2  data  for  the  1.5  mg  dose,  while  the  magnitude  of  the  0.75  mg  dose  effect  was  lower  for  Phase  3 
compared to the Phase 2 model. 
Figure  10  Exposure-response  relationships  for  absolute  weight  (left)  and  change  from  baseline  on  weight 
(right). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 50/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heart rate 
Dose-  and  concentration-dependent  increases  in  HR  were  reported  following  dulaglutide  administration  in 
healthy subjects and patients with T2DM. A model with data from Phase 3 trials and based on the findings of 
study  H9X-MC-GBDN  (see  above)  showed  a  small  increase  in  the  HR  response  with  increasing  dulaglutide 
concentrations at both the 52- and 104-week time points. Model-estimated increases in HR from the 72 bpm 
baseline for the 1.5 mg and 0.75 mg doses  of  dulaglutide were 2.6  bpm  and  1.1  bpm, respectively, at  the 
primary time point of 52 weeks. None of the examined covariates like age, baseline body weight, BMI, sex, HR 
baseline, use of concomitant medications race and ethnicity, alcohol intake, and smoking status influenced the 
HR response to dulaglutide in the final model. 
Figure 11 Exposure-response relationships for absolute heart rate (left) and change from baseline on heart rate 
(right). 
Blood Pressure 
Increases in BP were reported following dulaglutide administration in patients with T2DM in Phase 1 studies but 
the results were inconsistent in later, as mentioned above, Phase 2 ABPM study H9X-MC-GBDN was conducted 
in order to fully characterize the effect of dulaglutide on BP and HR.  
The  Phase 2  exposure-response  analyses,  which  included  a  wider  range  of  doses,  found  small  decreases  in 
diastolic BP (-1.4 mmHg), and an effect of age on the systolic BP response to dulaglutide, with decreases of -7.7 
mmHg  and  -4.8  mm  Hg  for  25  and  85  year  old  patients,  respectively.  The  results  from  the  Phase  2 
exposure-response analysis were similar to the results from Study H9X-MC-GBDN, where 1.5 mg dulaglutide 
dosing demonstrated a statistically significant -2.8 mm Hg reduction in mean 24 hour systolic BP, and a neutral 
effect on mean 24 hour diastolic BP. No correlation between blood pressure and concentration was apparent; 
thus, PK/PD models were not developed for the BP measurements. 
Amylase and Lipase  
To assess any potential effects of dulaglutide on pancreas, amylase (pancreatic and total) and lipase values were 
monitored as potential biomarkers for pancreatitis.  For pancreatic amylase, a small positive slope was observed 
for the absolute values; however, at the observed median dulaglutide concentration for the Phase 3 population 
at the 1.5 mg dose, the pancreatic amylase level was approximately 35 U/L, within the normal range of 13-53 
U/L.  No  significant  correlation  was  observed  for  change  from  baseline  pancreatic  amylase.  Total  amylase, 
comprised of amylase from different sources and therefore a less predictive biomarker for pancreatitis, showed 
a positive correlation in the overall concentration range studied. However, at the observed median dulaglutide 
concentration for the Phase 3 population at the 1.5 mg dose, the total amylase level was approximately 70 U/L, 
within the normal range of 20 to 112 U/L.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 51/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Consistent with the pancreatic amylase results, no significant correlation was observed for change of baseline 
total amylase. For lipase, no significant correlation with dulaglutide concentration for both absolute values and 
change  from  baseline  was  observed.  In  summary,  the  small  changes  in  these  measures  at  therapeutic 
dulaglutide  doses  remained  largely  in  the  normal  range.  For  all  of  these  parameters,  no  clear  relationship 
between  outliers  and  dulaglutide  concentrations  was  detected,  with  outliers  observed  throughout  the  whole 
exposure range.  
Calcitonin 
Serum calcitonin was measured in Phase 2 and 3 studies as a biomarker for thyroid C-cell abnormalities. For 
calcitonin, no significant correlation between dulaglutide concentrations and either absolute values or change 
from baseline was found. 
Nausea and Vomiting 
Gastrointestinal events are the most common TEAEs associated with dulaglutide with nausea and to a lesser 
extent  vomiting  amongst  the  most  frequently  reported.  Combined  safety  data  from  clinical  pharmacology 
studies indicated that nausea was reported during the first 2 to 3 days after the first dose and the incidence 
declined  with  subsequent  doses.  Exposure-response  models  for  nausea  and  vomiting  were  developed  to 
evaluate the effect of dose titration on incidence of these events using data from 4 clinical pharmacology studies 
in healthy subjects and patients with T2DM (Studies GBCA, GBCB, GBCD, and GBCT). These studies included 
PK and PD data in the 0.05 mg to 12 mg dose range. The model showed that higher dulaglutide concentrations 
were associated with increased probability of nausea and of moderate/severe nausea. Tolerance occurred with 
sustained  exposure  to  dulaglutide.  The  probability  of  vomiting  also  increased  with  higher  dulaglutide 
concentrations. As with nausea, tolerance occurred with sustained exposure. 
The exposure-response relationships confirmed previous observations that nausea and vomiting are related to 
dulaglutide concentrations, with the highest incidence occurring at the time of dulaglutide Cmax (48 hours). 
There  was  a  slightly  higher  probability  of  a  patient  experiencing  nausea  and  vomiting  for  the  1.5  mg  dose 
compared to the 0.75 mg dose (Figure 12). However, for both doses, the probabilities were very low. Even after 
a  single  dose,  where  the  maximum  effect  was  observed,  the  maximum  median  probabilities  were  <4%  for 
nausea and <2% for vomiting per hour for both doses. At steady state, the median probability of nausea and 
vomiting was even lower per hour, <2% and <1% respectively.  
Figure 12 Probability of nausea (left) and vomiting (right) over time for 1.5 mg dulaglutide with no titration and 
after titrating with 0.75 mg for 1 week 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 52/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Further  exposure-response  analyses  were  conducted  to  determine  if  patients  would  benefit  by  using  dose 
titration.  There  was  no  significant  improvement  in  the  model-estimated  overall  incidence  of  nausea  and 
vomiting with different titration regimens that started with 0.75 mg doses for 1, 2, 3 or 4 weeks before dosing 
with 1.5 mg dulaglutide. Administration of dulaglutide 1.5 mg without titration resulted in an increased incidence 
of nausea (11%) and vomiting (7%) per week after the first dose only but tolerance developed that led to a 
marked decrease in the incidence of nausea and vomiting after the 2nd dose.  
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  Applicant  has  provided  pharmacokinetic  data  from  a  number  of  studies  and  population  PK  analyses  in 
healthy  volunteers  and  patients  with  T2DM  that  are  sufficient  to  determine  the  key  PK  characteristics  of 
dulaglutide. 
The statistical methods and the assays used in the studies to characterize PK of dulaglutide and other drugs, 
were validated. In some studies there were patients with detectable pre-dose dulaglutide levels. This is likely 
explained by elevated endogenous GLP-1 and/or glucagon levels in these individuals.  However, the number of 
affected predose samples was minimal and the impact on the overall characterization of dulaglutide PK and 
subsequent conclusions was considered to be negligible. The biopharmaceutical development was appropriate 
to justify both, the single use syringe and the single use pen based on bioequivalence, safety assessment and 
human factor evaluation 
Following  subcutaneous  administration  dulaglutide  is  slowly  absorbed  reaching  maximum  concentrations 
between 48 and 72 hours, with a rate likely to be slower in diabetic patients than healthy volunteers (although 
the extent of absorption appears similar). Absolute bioavailability is relatively low 44-47% for the 1.5mg dose 
and appears to be dose dependent, with a higher bioavailability for the 0.75 mg dose (65%).  
After  repeated  weekly  dosing,  steady  state  is  suggested  to  be  reached  after  two  weeks.  No  significant 
differences  in  bioavailability  and  the  extent  of  exposure  to  dulaglutide  were  found  after  injection  at  three 
different injection sites (arm, thigh and abdomen). However, patient BMI was found to be a significant factor, 
with an inverse relationship to bioavailability. From the population pharmacokinetic analysis, it was concluded 
that no dosage adjustment is necessary for patient weight.  This conclusion is endorsed. 
Mean apparent volumes of distribution (Vz/F) after single and multiple 1.5 mg SC dosing were 19.5 L and 17.4 
L respectively. The volume of distribution after single IV dosing (0.1 mg) was 5.3 L indicating that dulaglutide 
distributes primarily in the blood volume.  Dulaglutide is suggested to be degraded to amino acids by general 
protein catabolism pathways.  Very limited data (pooled analysis of 2 subjects) were presented for a truncated 
GLP-Fc  metabolite  in  vivo.    Although  the  data  showed  that  the  metabolite  concentrations  accumulate  more 
slowly than parent, given that the metabolite was shown to be 15,000 times less potent, the contribution of this 
metabolite to dulaglutide PD response is likely to be negligible. Apparent clearance (CL/F) in patients with T2DM 
after multiple 1.5 mg dosing was 0.107 L/hr. Mean t1/2 after multiple 1.5 mg dosing was approximately 4.7 
days. Intra-subject variability appears to be low (less than 20% for both Cmax and AUC), while inter-subject 
variability was low to moderate (estimated between 18 and 35%). 
Specific studies examined the dulaglutide PK in patients with renal and hepatic impairment, Japanese patients 
and elderly, without finding any clinically significant effects. The effect of other intrinsic factors such as gender 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 53/172 
 
  
  
 
 
age, weight and BMI, was also tested but only the latter two were found to be consistently  associated with 
reduced  bioavailability  and  lower  exposure,  not  however  to  an  extent  to  be  considered  of  major  clinical 
relevance and requiring a dose adjustment.  
Dulaglutide is not expected to be metabolized by the CYP enzymes and PK interactions through this route are 
unlikely. The potential for dulaglutide to affect oral drugs’ absorption through its effect on gastric emptying was 
investigated in a number of studies.  In general, the extent of interaction was low.   
Pharmacodynamics 
The  mechanisms  of  action  of  GLP-1  receptor  agonists  are  well  known  with  three  key  elements  that  can  be 
beneficial to T2DM patients i.e. increased insulin release in response to hyperglycaemia, decreased glucagon 
secretion and delayed gastric emptying possibly resulting in increased satiety and weight loss. The investigation 
of dulaglutide pharmacodynamics confirmed these effects without unexpected findings. 
Dulaglutide was shown to restore both first- and second-phase insulin release in response to glucose challenge 
in T2DM patients and appears to increase maximal insulin secretion from the β-cells in response to glucagon 
under hyperglycaemic conditions. A glucagon suppressing effect was also observed in Study GBDC. The overall 
result is a decrease in fasting and post-prandial glucose and HbA1c which appears to be well correlated with 
dulaglutide concentrations and doses as the PK/PD models suggest. The delaying of gastric emptying, again an 
expected effect in this class, was confirmed by both scintigraphy and the impact on acetaminophen absorption. 
A positive long term effect on weight appears to be related to dose with a slightly greater weight loss with the 
1.5 mg dose relative to lower doses estimated by the PK/PD modelling.  
In terms of the investigation of off-target effects, the thorough QT study had a number of limitations and some 
of its findings needed further consideration. Although there was no clear evidence of QT prolongation, the study 
showed an increase in heart rate and effects on conduction system including persistent PR prolongation as well 
as QT shortening. These are inconsistent for any one mechanism especially hERG mediated and no other ion 
channels have been investigated. Generally, the effects of dulaglutide on cardiac repolarisation and conduction 
system  remain  uncertain.  However,  the  relevant  findings  from  the  clinical  studies  appear  to  be  generally 
consistent with the rest of the class and the overall data so far do not raise any major safety concerns (see 
Safety section). Nevertheless, this is an issue that will need to remain under monitoring. A large cardiovascular 
outcome study is ongoing and is expected to provide more robust evidence on the cardiac safety of dulaglutide.  
From a different safety perspective, the very poor tolerability and the high rate of pancreatitis seen with high 
doses in this study is of concern and raises questions about the potential safety margins. The small increase in 
heart rate, which is likely to be dose related, was confirmed by other studies, whereas the findings on blood 
pressure are less consistent. These issues are discussed in detail in the Safety section. Some PD findings of the 
drug-drug interaction studies such as that dulaglutide could alter metoprolol’s effect on diastolic BP and the 
observation  that  there  was  a  higher  rate  and  number  of  patients  with  first  degree  heart  block  after 
co-administration of digoxin do not appear to be clinically relevant.   
The immunogenicity of dulaglutide was also examined in clinical studies with only a small percentage of patients 
detected  with  anti  dulaglutide  antibodies.  The  findings  overall  suggest  little  immunogenic  potential. 
Immunogenicity is also further discussed in the Safety section.  
Among the remaining examined safety parameters i.e. amylase, calcitonin and GI adverse effects, only nausea 
and  vomiting  showed  a  clear  exposure-response  relationship  in  the  PK/PD  models.  Of  interest,  the  findings 
suggest  that  the  likelihood  of  experiencing  nausea  and  vomiting  is  highest  in  the  first  couple  of  weeks  but 
diminishes  thereafter.    Further  analyses  also  found  no  major  long  term  differences  in  terms  of  nausea  and 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 54/172 
 
  
  
 
vomiting between a stepwise titration regime (i.e. starting therapy with 0.75mg before moving to the 1.5mg 
dose) compared to the currently proposed no titration regime. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Dulaglutide is a new GLP-1 agonist with general characteristics consistent with what is expected for products in 
this class but also some differences.  
The pharmacokinetics of dulaglutide were in general thoroughly investigated and the methodology utilised for 
data  analysis  is  generally  endorsed.  The  only  important  covariate  identified  during  the  population 
pharmacokinetic analysis was patient weight. The Applicant concludes that no dosage adjustment is necessary.  
This conclusion is endorsed.  
In terms of pharmacodynamics, the data confirm the key aspects of the mechanism of action of the class i.e 
increased  insulin  release  in  response  to  hyperglycaemia,  decreased  glucagon  secretion  and  delayed  gastric 
emptying. Similarly, dulaglutide is not immune to the known tolerability and safety issues of GLP-1 agonist class 
with GI adverse events shown to be related to dulaglutide concentrations. It is reassuring that GI tolerance 
appears to develop relatively quickly, and also that immunogenicity may not be a major issue. There are issues 
with  the  findings  of  the  thorough  QT  study  and  certain  haemodynamic  effects,  like  a  consistently  observed 
increase in heart rate, but the overall findings do not raise any major concerns.  
In conclusion, the overall PK and PD effects of dulaglutide have been sufficiently characterized. The data from 
the  clinical  pharmacology  program  support  the  pharmaceutical  development,  the  once  weekly  dosing  and 
posology.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
The primary efficacy data supporting this submission are based on 5 pivotal long-term controlled Phase 3 trials 
(52-104 weeks) which evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of once-weekly dulaglutide at doses of 1.5 
mg and 0.75 mg versus placebo or and/or an active comparator used as monotherapy or in combination with 
OAMs or prandial insulin (with or without metformin). An overview of the 5 main studies is provided in Table 11 
and Table 12 below. A sixth phase 3 study, considered supportive, was submitted during the procedure. 
Table 11 Dulaglutide Pivotal Long-Term Phase 3 Studies and Treatment Duration 
Study 
Background 
Therapy 
26 week 
Placebo-co
ntrolled 
period 
Active Comparator 
(Dose) 
Total Treatment 
Duration (Primary 
Time point) 
GBDC  
GBCF (AWARD-3) 
GBDA (AWARD-1) 
GBDB (AWARD-2) 
GBDD (AWARD-4) 
Abbreviations: BID = twice daily injection; MET=metformin; SU= sulphonylurea; TZD = thiazolidinedione; N/A = not applicable; QD = once daily. 
a Insulin glargine dose was adjusted based on treat-to-target algorithm to maintain fasting plasma glucose <100 mg/dL (<5.6 mmol/L). 
MET (1500-2000 mg QD) 
Sitagliptin (100 mg QD) 
Exenatide (10 μg BID) 
Insulin Glargine a 
Insulin Glargine a 
N/A 
MET 
MET + TZD 
MET + SU 
Insulin Lispro ± MET 
52 (26) weeks 
104 (52) weeks 
52 (26) weeks 
78 (52) weeks 
52 (26) weeks 
Yes 
Yes 
Efficacy data were also obtained from four Phase 2 studies: Study H9X-MC-GBCJ, Study H9X-MC-GBCK, Study 
H9X-JE-GBCZ, and Study H9X-MC-GBDN. Three of the Phase 2 studies (Studies GBCJ, GBCK, and GBCZ) tested 
once weekly dulaglutide doses ranging from 0.1 to 3.0 mg for up to 16 weeks, and the fourth Phase 2 study 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 55/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
(GBDN) evaluated the effects of dulaglutide 1.5 mg and dulaglutide 0.75 mg on blood pressure and heart rate 
using ABPM for up to 26 weeks. There is also an ongoing program with an additional 10 studies (Table 2 above) 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
The  Initial clinical pharmacology studies assessed  a dulaglutide  dose  range from  0.05 to 12 mg. Data from 
studies in healthy subjects and patients with T2DM, together with dose-concentration-response relationships of 
PD and safety parameters (see Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics sections above) provided information for 
the estimation of the minimum effective dose, the maximum tolerated dose, and the dulaglutide dose range for 
the dose-finding part of the Phase 2/3 Study H9X-MC-GBCF. 
Study GBCF, was a 104-week, adaptive, inferentially seamless, Phase 2/3, placebo-controlled study comparing 
the efficacy and safety of once weekly dulaglutide to sitagliptin in patients with T2DM on metformin. The study’s 
initial dose-finding part assessed seven doses of dulaglutide (0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, and 3 mg). An optimal 
or maximum utility dose (MUD) was to be selected from those, based on the use of a prospectively defined 
clinical utility index (CUI) for pre-specified measures of benefit (HbA1c and weight) and risk (diastolic BP and 
HR). If a dose met the maximum utility criteria and the pre-specified decision rules, a second, lower dose would 
be also selected for further assessment in Stage 2. This was based on the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) 
recommendation to bring forward a second dose into Phase 3 development in case  of an unexpected safety 
signal with the MUD. This second dose was required to have a CUI ≥0.6 and be ≤50% of the MUD. 
In April 2009 randomization to the dulaglutide 3.0 mg dose was stopped prior to the 10th interim report based 
on the recommendation of the Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) following observations of increased heart rate 
and concerns related to pancreatic safety. After more than 200 patients had been enrolled, the 10th interim 
assessment was performed and  the decision rules were applied. Non-validated data from 199 patients were 
included in the dose selection analysis. Table 13 presents a summary of the variables included in the CUI, as well 
as fasting glucose and systolic blood pressure (SBP), up to 6 months, excluding data after the Decision Point. 
The table shows that the 1.5 mg dose had the greatest effect on HbA1c and fasting glucose. The effects on body 
weight  were  similar  to  the  adjacent  doses.  Regarding  safety,  the  1.5  mg  dose  also  met  the  pre-specified 
requirements of change in DBP ≤2 mm Hg and change in pulse rate ≤5 bpm.  
Table  13 Summary of HbA1c (%), Fasting Serum Glucose, Body Weight, Sitting Pulse Rate, Sitting Systolic 
Blood Pressure, and Sitting Diastolic Blood Pressure for Dose Assessment at Decision Point – ITT Patients in All 
9 Treatment Arms Randomized during Stage 1; Study GBCF 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 56/172 
 
  
  
 
 
The 1.5 mg dose  met the pre-specified criteria for dose  selection as the  MUD  and  the optimal dose  for the 
dulaglutide  program.  The  posterior  probability  that  the  CUI  ≥0.6  was  0.982  and  the  posterior  predictive 
probability that the 1.5 mg dose was noninferior to sitagliptin at 12 months, based on a total sample size of 263 
in each arm, was >0.99. 
Following the rules for selecting a second dose, the algorithm indicated the 0.75 mg dose met the pre-specified 
requirements. The DMC subsequently met and supported the continuation of the study GBCF with the selected 
dulaglutide doses. Patients enrolled during Stage 1 in the dulaglutide doses that were not selected for Stage 2, 
were discontinued from the study.  
In  summary,  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  was  selected  as  the  optimal  dose,  and  0.75  mg  was  chosen  as  the  lower 
alternative dose for the confirmatory long-term safety and efficacy part of Study GBCF and subsequent Phase 3 
Studies GBDC, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD. 
Selection of commercial doses  
Although both doses (1.5 mg and 0.75 mg) were tested in the phase III studies only the 1.5 mg dose was initially 
intended to be marketed. The Applicant suggested that the totality of clinical safety and efficacy data, and the 
exposure-response model-based analyses support the once weekly administration of dulaglutide 1.5 mg as the 
most efficacious dose with an acceptable safety profile. The population exposure-response models estimated 
decreases from baseline of -35 mg/dL for FPG; -1.1% for HbA1c; and -1.7 kg for body weight at 1 year following 
the 1.5 mg dulaglutide dose in patients with T2DM. The model estimated an increase of 2.6 bpm in HR and no 
clinically relevant changes in BP, amylase (pancreatic and total), lipase, and calcitonin at the 1.5 mg dose level.  
In order to determine the optimal commercial dose, efficacy and safety data from the individual and integrated 
Phase 3 studies were analysed to determine if there was a clear difference between the 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg 
doses. The probability of each dose of attaining a clearly distinguishable effect was also assessed using the 
population PK/PD models. The probability distributions of the effect for both doses for key PK, efficacy, and 
safety  parameters  demonstrated  that  the  1.5  mg  dose  separates  from  the  0.75  mg  dose  in  terms  of  AUC, 
glycaemic control, and HR effects, while the weight effect has a higher degree of overlap between doses. 
Figure 13 Model-estimated probability distributions of key pharmacokinetic, efficacy and safety parameters for 
the 1.5 mg and 0.75 mg doses. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 57/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
The 1.5 mg dose is shown in blue, the 0.75 mg dose in green. Profiles represent simulations of 200 studies with 200 
patients in each treatment arm. Simulations were run using covariate values representative of patients in phase 3 
studies: mean weight 93 kg (SD 19), mean age 55 (SD 10). Abbreviations: AUC = area under the concentration-time 
curve; ECG = electrocardiogram; FPG = fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c = glycosylated haemoglobin; HR = heart rate; 
SD = standard deviation. 
Individual  study  data  and  integrated  efficacy  and  safety  data  from  the  5  long-term,  multinational  Phase  3 
studies confirmed the results of the dose-finding stage of Study GBCF and demonstrated that dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
is the most efficacious dose with an acceptable safety profile. 
Dose titration 
In order to assess the effect of dose titration,  the  company conducted Study H9X-MC-GBCJ  that evaluated 
once-weekly injections of dulaglutide using two regimes involving dose titration (0.5 to 1.0mg and 1.0mg to 
2.0mg) or a non-titration (1mg) compared to placebo on glycaemic control as measured by HbA1c change from 
baseline at 16 weeks and safety in overweight and obese BMI of 27 to 40 kg/m2) T2DM patients who were taking 
any 2 OAMs. The study had a 2-week lead-in period during which placebo injections were administered, followed 
by  a  16-week  treatment  period.  Of  the  262  randomized  patients,  232  completed  the  study  and  255  were 
analyzed for the primary efficacy measure. 
Statistically  significantly  greater  decreases  in  HbA1c  were  observed  in  all  dulaglutide  treatment  groups 
compared to placebo (p<0.001), with the largest numerical decrease in the dulaglutide 1.0/2.0mg treatment 
group. Overall dose titration over 4 weeks did not appear to have a significant effect on tolerability. Dulaglutide 
concentration increased as expected with dose titration, from 0.5 to 1 mg and from 1 to 2 mg. In the treatment 
group  without  titration,  steady-state  concentration  was  reached  prior  to  the  fourth  dose.  There  was  no 
statistically significant difference in the most frequent AEs (nausea vomiting, diarrhoea) for the 4 groups (overall 
p>0.05), and the percentage of patients reporting these events was lower than historically reported in clinical 
trials  evaluating  this  class  of  drugs.  Only  7  patients  discontinued  from  the  study  due  to  GI  AEs.  The 
hypoglycaemia rate was low and was not statistically significantly different between groups.  
In addition to study H9X-MC-GBCJ, as discussed above (see Pharmacodynamics section), exposure-response 
analyses  were  conducted  to  examine  if  patients  would  benefit  by  a  dose  titration  regime.  There  was  no 
significant improvement in the model-estimated overall incidence of nausea and vomiting with different titration 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 58/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
regimens that started with 0.75 mg doses for 1, 2, 3 or 4 weeks before dosing with 1.5 mg dulaglutide. The 
model estimated no benefit of different dose titration regimens or between different dose titration regimens 
beyond the first dose.  
Figure  14  shows  the  model-estimated  incidence  of  nausea  and  vomiting  per  day  between  administration  of 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg with no titration and after titrating with 0.75 mg for 1 week for the first two weeks of dosing. 
Dulaglutide was administered on Day 1 and Day 8. Bars represent incidence of events per day. When starting 
with the 1.5 mg dose the incidence of nausea and vomiting is higher in the first week of dosing but rapidly 
declines due to tolerance development. Titrating, by starting with the lower 0.75 mg dose, was associated with 
a small rebound effect with increase in nausea and vomiting in the second week of dosing, due to a lack of 
tolerance development. Nausea increases from 7.9% on week 1 to 8.3% on week 2 and vomiting from 5.3% on 
week 1 to 6.0% on week 2. Conversely, the 1.5 mg dose has a higher incidence of nausea and vomiting per week 
after the first dose (11% and 7.0%), but the incidence is reduced to a level lower than that in in the titration 
regimen (7.9% and 5.9%), on the second week of dosing. 
Figure  14  Model-estimated  incidence  of  nausea  (left)  and  vomiting  (right)  with  no  titration  for  1.5  mg 
dulaglutide (red) and after titrating with 0.75 mg for 1 week (blue). 
In general, taking into account the totality of evidence from the dose response studies and the available PK/PD 
data, it is agreed that there is a dose dependent effect in terms of both efficacy and tolerability/safety, which 
was confirmed by the main dose-ranging study GBCF. Doses higher than 1.5 mg were shown to offer very little 
additional  benefit  while  associated  with  poorer  tolerability  and  a  potentially  higher  risk  of  complications. 
Therefore, based on the overall evidence, the choice of the 1.5 mg as the highest dose appears well justified. 
The decision about the need or not of a lower dose was more debatable.  
In  addition  to  1.5mg,  the  0.75mg  dose  was  also  tested  across  the  whole  phase  3  program  (based  on  FDA 
recommendations) as a back-up in case that serious tolerability/safety concerns arose with the higher dose. 
However,  although  both  doses  were  examined  only  the  1.5  mg  strength  was  initially  submitted  with  this 
application  and  intended  for  commercial  use.  Indeed,  as  the  Applicant  argues,  the  1.5mg  appears  more 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 59/172 
 
  
  
 
 
efficacious than the 0.75mg dose but is also associated with a slightly poorer tolerability and higher incidence of 
certain events (as discussed in more detail in  the  Safety  section below).  Nevertheless,  the overall evidence 
appears to support the choice of once weekly 1.5mg as the dose with the most favourable benefit:risk profile for 
most  patients.  Nonetheless,  a  question  was  raised  whether  a  lower  strength  would  be  useful  for  dose 
up-titration, aiming at improved tolerability at the beginning of therapy, or for down titration for patients who for 
various reasons may not be able to tolerate the higher dose.  
To address the first point, the Applicant carried out study GBCJ that showed no clear benefit of regimes involving 
dose titration compared to starting and continuing therapy with the same dose, although it should be noted that 
the currently recommended posology (0.75mg to 1.5mg) was not tested. A model estimating the effect of a 
dose-titrating regime on nausea and vomiting suggested that starting with a lower dose may be temporarily 
better tolerated but can delay the development of tolerance. Although the arguments appear reasonable, the 
data were generally limited. There were also concerns about the potential usefulness of a lower strength in case 
that a patient cannot receive the higher dose or when down titration may be required. In the latter case a patient 
would need to discontinue therapy and seek alternative options.  
Introduction of the 0.75mg formulation 
The issues about the usefulness of a lower 0.75mg formulation, particularly in a monotherapy setting (please 
see Efficacy and Safety sections below) were extensively discussed during the procedure. At Day 180, following 
the  CHMP  request,  the  Applicant  included  the  0.75 mg  strength  in  this  application  and  updated  the  related 
documentation and the Product Information, accordingly.      
Once weekly dosing and missed doses 
Pharmacokinetic  data  support  a  once  weekly  administration  of  dulaglutide.  Following  SC  administration, 
maximum  concentrations  of  dulaglutide  are  reached  at  approximately  48  hours  and  the  half-life  is 
approximately 4.7 days; apparent CL is 0.107 L/hr. Steady state is reached between the 2nd and 4th dose. 
Consistent  with  its  PK  profile,  dulaglutide  has  a  glycaemic  profile  suitable  for  once  weekly  administration. 
Reductions  in  HbA1c,  fasting,  and  postprandial  glucose,  as  well  as  corresponding  increases  in  insulin  and 
C-peptide, were observed after the first dose and were sustained throughout the once weekly dosing interval, 
with maximum effects observed by 2 weeks. Simulations of the effect of missed doses on the PK of dulaglutide 
were also carried out to provide administration instructions in such cases.  
2.5.2.  Main studies 
As mentioned above in support of this application the Applicant at time of submission of the application  the 
results of 5 Phase 3 trials which assessed the efficacy and safety of once-weekly dulaglutide at doses of 1.5 mg 
and 0.75 mg versus placebo or active comparators taken alone, or in combination with OAMs or prandial insulin 
(with or without metformin).  
Table 12 Overview of Dulaglutide Phase 3 Studies 
Study  
Primary Objective  
Study 
Design  
Study Drug  
Number of 
Patients  
Patient Population  
Total 
Treatment 
Durationa  
Phase 3 Studies -Comparative Efficacy  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 60/172 
 
  
  
 
 
H9X-MC-GB
CF  
Stage 1: Identify up to 
2 doses of DUL 
(referred to as high and 
low dose) for 
confirmatory studies. 
Stage 1 and Stage 2: 
Demonstrate DUL was 
noninferior (0.25% 
margin) to sitagliptin 
on HbA1c change from 
baseline at 52 weeks.  
Phase 2/3, 
adaptive, 
inferentially 
seamless, 
multicenter, 
randomized, 
Placebo-contr
olled, 
double-blind, 
parallel-arm 
study  
H9X-MC-GB
DC  
(AWARD-3) 
Demonstrate DUL 1.5 
mg was noninferior 
(0.4% margin) to MET 
on HbA1c change from 
baseline at 26 weeks.  
H9X-MC-GB
DA  
(AWARD-1) 
Demonstrate DUL 1.5 
mg was superior to 
PLAC on HbA1c change 
from baseline at 26 
weeks.  
H9X-MC-GB
DB  
(AWARD-2) 
Demonstrate DUL 1.5 
mg was noninferior 
(0.4% margin) to 
insulin glargine on 
HbA1c change from 
baseline at 52 weeks.  
Phase 3, 
randomized, 
parallel-arm, 
active 
comparator, 
double-blind, 
double-dumm
y, 
noninferiority 
study  
Phase 3, 
multicenter, 
parallel-arm, 
double blind 
PLAC-controll
ed, open-label 
to 
comparator, 
randomized, 
study  
Phase 3, 
open-label 
to comparator
, double-blind 
to DUL dose, 
multicenter, 
parallel-arm, 
randomized 
study  
H9X-MC- 
GBDD  
(AWARD-4) 
Demonstrate DUL 1.5 
mg was noninferior 
(0.4% margin) to 
insulin glargine on 
HbA1c change from 
baseline at 26 weeks.  
Phase 
3, parallel-ar
m,  open-labe
l, active 
comparator 
study  
T2DM suboptimally 
controlled with MET, 1 
other OAM, MET + 1 
other OAM, or 
antihyperglycaemic 
medication-naïve 
(screening HbA1c ≥7.0% 
to ≤9.5%).  
104 wks 
(primary 
time point = 
52 wks, final 
time point = 
104 wks) 
Note: 
PLAC-contro
lled = 26 
wksb  
Stage 1:  
ITT = 230 (DUL = 
150; PLACb = 38; 
comparator = 42)  
Stage 1 and 2, 
primary 
treatment 
groups: ITT = 
1098 (DUL 1.5 
mg = 304; DUL 
0.75 mg = 302; 
PLAC = 177; 
sitagliptin = 315)  
ITT = 807 (DUL 
1.5 mg = 269; 
DUL 0.75 mg = 
270; MET = 268)  
T2DM for ≥3 months and 
≤5 years, suboptimally 
controlled with 1 OAM or 
treatment-naïve 
(screening HbA1c ≥6.5% 
to ≤9.5%).  
52 wks 
(primary 
time point = 
26 wks; final 
time point = 
52 wks)  
ITT = 976 (DUL 
1.5 mg = 279; 
DUL 0.75 mg = 
280; PLAC = 141; 
exenatide = 276)  
T2DM suboptimally 
controlled with up to 3 
OAM(s) (screening 
HbA1c ≥7.0% and 
≤11.0% if on 1 OAM and 
≥7.0% and ≤10.0% if on 
>1 OAM).  
52 wks 
(primary 
time point = 
26 wks; final 
time point = 
52 wks)  
ITT = 807  (DUL 
1.5 mg =  273; 
DUL 0.75 mg = 
272; insulin 
glargine = 262)  
T2DM suboptimally 
controlled with up to  3 
OAM(s), at least 1 of 
which must have been 
MET or SU (screening 
HbA1c ≥7.0% and 
≤11.0% if on 1 OAM and 
≥7.0% and ≤10.0% if on 
>1 OAM).  
78 wks 
(primary  ti
me point = 
52 wks; final 
time point = 
78 wks)  
ITT = 884  (DUL 
1.5 mg =  295; 
DUL 0.75 mg = 
293; insulin 
glargine = 296)  
T2DM suboptimally 
controlled with  ≥3 
months of a conventional 
insulin regimen (≤2 
doses of insulin per day), 
alone or in combination 
with OAMs (screening 
HbA1c ≥7.0% and 
≤11.0%).  
52 wks 
(primary 
time  point 
= 26 wks; 
final time 
point = 52 
wks)  
Stage 1: DUL: 0.25, 0.5, 
0.75, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 3.0 
mg; SC, once weekly 
PLAC: SC, once weekly 
Sitagliptin: 100 mg, PO, 
once daily PLAC: PO, 
once daily  
Stage 2: DUL: 1.5, 0.75 
mg; SC, once weekly 
PLAC: PO, once daily; 
SC, once weekly up to 26 
weeks Sitagliptin: 100 
mg, PO, once daily 
Patients added assigned 
therapy to MET ≥1500 
mg once daily.  
DUL: 0.75, 1.5 mg; SC, 
once weekly PLAC: PO, 
twice daily; SC, once 
weekly MET: 1000 mg, 
PO, twice daily (total 
dose of 2000 mg/day or 
1500 mg/day as 
tolerated by the patient)  
DUL: 0.75, 1.5 mg; SC, 
once weekly PLAC: SC, 
once weekly for 26 
weeks Exenatide: 5 mcg, 
twice daily for 4 weeks 
followed by 10 mcg twice 
daily thereafter Patients 
added assigned therapy 
to MET up to 2550 
mg/day or the highest 
tolerable local label dose, 
and pioglitazone up to 45 
mg/day or the highest 
tolerable local label dose.  
DUL: 0.75, 1.5 mg; SC, 
once weekly Insulin 
glargine: starting dose 
10 IU, SC; thereafter, 
adjusted based on 
treat-to-target algorithm 
of self-monitored FPG 
target <100 mg/dL 
Patients added assigned 
therapy to maximally 
tolerated doses of MET 
≥1500 mg/day and 
glimepiride ≥4 mg/day.  
DUL: 0.75, 1.5 mg; 
SC,  once weekly  Insulin 
glargine: starting dose 
50% of 
pre-randomization total 
daily dose, SC, at 
bedtime; thereafter, 
adjusted based on 
treat-to-target algorithm 
of self-monitored FPG 
target >70 to <100 
mg/dL All patients added 
assigned therapy to 
prandial insulin lispro 
(starting dose 50% of 
pre-randomization total 
daily dose; thereafter 
adjusted to pre-specified 
pre-meal FPG targets) ± 
MET.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 61/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Abbreviations: ABPM = ambulatory blood pressure monitoring; BP = blood pressure; DPP-4 = dipeptidyl peptidase-IV; DUL= Dulaglutide; FPG = fasting 
plasma glucose; HbA1c = glycosylated hemoglobin A1c; HTN = hypertension; ITT = intent-to-treat; IU = International Unit; MET = metformin; mmHg 
=  millimeters  of  mercury;  N =  number  of  patients;  OAM  =  oral  antidiabetic  medication;  PLAC=  Placebo;  PO  =  orally;  SC  =  subcutaneous;  SU  = 
sulphonylurea; T2DM = type 2 diabetes mellitus; TZD = thiazolidinediones.  
a An additional 4-week safety follow-up period was included in all studies with the exception of Study GBCJ; the follow-up period is not included in 
the treatment duration.  
b Total duration of placebo-controlled period was 26 weeks; after 26 weeks, patients originally randomized to placebo were converted to active therapy 
(GBCF: sitagliptin; GBDA: dulaglutide 1.5 mg or dulaglutide 0.75 mg) in an effort to maintain study blind and collect long-term, controlled safety data 
across the treatment groups.  
Methods 
The Phase 3 studies were designed to assess safety and efficacy in patients across different stages of the T2DM 
management from monotherapy, combination with 1 or 2 OAMs, and combination with insulin; more specifically, 
to establish the superiority of dulaglutide to placebo and/or noninferiority/superiority of dulaglutide to active 
comparator  (metformin,  sitagliptin,  exenatide  twice  daily  [hereafter  referred  to  as  exenatide],  or  insulin 
glargine).  
All trials were conducted as randomized, parallel-arm trials. Placebo-controlled trials were double-blinded. All 
studies had active-comparator control arms through the final treatment time point. Three of the 5 trials had a 
52-week treatment period, 1 trial had a 78-week treatment period, and 1 trial had a 104-week treatment period. 
The primary outcome measure in all 5 studies was glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) change from baseline 
to  the  primary  time  point  (26  or  52  weeks);  various  secondary  safety  and  efficacy  measures  were  also 
evaluated, including effects on body weight, fasting serum glucose (FSG), 8-point SMPG profile, proportion of 
patients  achieving  target  HbA1c  <7%  and  ≤6.5%,  indices  of  insulin  sensitivity  and  beta  cell  function. 
Long-term, comparator-controlled safety and efficacy data were collected through the final time points (52, 78, 
or 104 weeks). 
The initial Phase 3 study was Study H9X-MC-GBCF (as mentioned in the Dose Response section above), an 
adaptive, dose-finding and confirmatory inferentially seamless Phase 2/3 study. As discussed, the purpose of 
the dose-finding portion of GBCF was to identify an optimal dose, utilizing prespecified measures of safety and 
efficacy. Dulaglutide 1.5 mg was selected as the optimal dose and dulaglutide 0.75 mg was selected as the 
alternative lower dose to mitigate the potential risk if a safety signal were to be subsequently observed with the 
optimal dose. These doses were used in the subsequent Phase 3 program. 
Two of the Phase 3 studies had a 26-week placebo-controlled period, after which patients in the placebo arm 
were switched to the active comparator sitagliptin (Study GBCF) or dulaglutide 1.5 mg or dulaglutide 0.75 mg 
(Study GBDA) for the remainder of the study duration (≥52 weeks). The insulin-comparator studies (Studies 
GBDB and GBDD) were conducted as open-label comparator studies due to the complexity of blinding insulin, 
given the need to titrate insulin doses. The 2 doses of dulaglutide were double-blinded. The exenatide twice daily 
comparator study (Study GBDA was also open-label with respect to the active comparator due to the complexity 
of blinding the exenatide BID pen device. The 2 doses of dulaglutide and placebo were double-blinded in that 
study. 
Rescue therapy was not used in Study GBCF; patients who met pre-specified thresholds for hyperglycaemia 
were required to be discontinued from the study. In the subsequent Phase 3 studies (GBDC, GBDA, GBDB, and 
GBDD), rescue therapy (additional or alternative antihyperglycaemic medication) could have been initiated for: 
i.  meeting  pre-specified  thresholds  for  severe,  persistent  hyperglycaemia;  ii.  following  study  drug 
discontinuation. If rescue therapy was initiated, the specific antihyperglycaemic medication was determined by 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 62/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
the investigator based on standards of care. Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists were not permitted as 
rescue therapy.  
The key inclusion criterion was a diagnosis of T2DM based on WHO disease criteria for over 6 month duration at 
study entry. Both male and female patients were eligible for enrolment. The age range was ≥18 in most phase 
3 studies. Inadequate glycaemic control was defined differently in the phase 3 studies (please refer to specific 
inclusion criteria); in most phase 3 studies patients had to have a stable weight (±5%) for at least 3 months 
prior to screening and a BMI between 23 and 45 kg/m2. 
Exclusion criteria common to the phase 3 studies were T1DM, uncontrolled T2DM (>2 episodes of ketoacidosis 
or hyperosmolar state requiring hospitalisation), treatment with a GLP-1 agonist within 6 months prior to study 
entry, known clinically meaningful gastric emptying abnormality, gastric bypass surgery, or chronic use of drugs 
that directly reduce gastrointestinal motility, intake of a nervous system stimulant or prescription or over the 
counter medication to promote weight loss at study entry, a clinically relevant CV event within 2 month of study 
entry or between study entry or randomisation, poorly controlled hypertension at study entry, increased serum 
calcitonin (20 pg/mL) and significant liver or kidney disease or a significant active uncontrolled endocrine or 
autoimmune abnormality. 
In  general,  the  five  phase  3  trials  (together  with  the  supportive  studies)  meet  the  main  requirements  for 
confirmatory studies in the investigation of medicinal products in the treatment of diabetes mellitus, according 
to the relevant European  Guideline (CPMP/EWP/1080/00 Rev. 1), testing the superiority of  dulaglutide over 
placebo,  alone  or  when  added  to  an  appropriate  background  therapy,  as  well  as  the  non-inferiority  to  an 
established active comparator. 
Indeed  dulaglutide  was  compared  to  placebo  in  two  phase  3  studies  (GBCF  and  GBDA)  and  to  active 
comparators in all five of them (GBCF, GBDC, DBDA, GBDB and GBDD). It was also tested as monotherapy 
(study  GBDC)  or  in  combination  with  other  treatments  as  double  (with  metformin,  insulin  lispro)  or  triple 
therapy  (with  metformin+sulphonylurea  [SU],  metformin+thiazolidinedione  [TZD]  or  metformin+insulin 
lispro), and data available for up to 104 weeks. Background treatments were continued or their levels were 
stabilised  at  maximum  tolerated  doses  for  the  duration  of  the  studies.  It  should  be  noted  that  although  a 
monotherapy study vs metformin was carried out, a monotherapy indication was not initially sought. However, 
as part of their responses to the Day 120 LoQ, the Applicant requested an amendment of the indications to also 
include a monotherapy indication which was considered acceptable, based on the submitted data. 
There are, however, some gaps in the available evidence with regard to some treatment combinations that may 
be  encountered  in  clinical  practice;  for  example,  there  are  no  data  on  double  therapy  with  dulaglutide  in 
combination with SU or TZD, or triple combination with SU+TZD. Also in a non-traditional approach dulaglutide 
was tested as add-on therapy to prandial  instead  of  basal  insulin.   With  regard to the lack of a study on a 
combination with SU, the Applicant indicated that because of the declining use of SU at the time of initial Phase 
3 program planning such a study was not considered to be of high priority. 
Currently ongoing studies appear to address some of these points, like study GBDG that compares dulaglutide 
with  placebo  in  T2DM  patients  on  background  SU  therapy.  Various  other  combinations  and  different 
comparators are also under investigation in other studies. 
NOTE: The studies are presented below not in chronological order but in an order representing the stages of the 
T2DM treatment continuum  from  monotherapy, combination with one or more OAMs, and combination with 
insulin: Studies GBDC, GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 63/172 
 
  
  
 
Study H9X-MC-GBDC  
The Impact of LY2189265 versus Metformin on Glycemic Control in Early Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (AWARD-3: 
Assessment of Weekly AdministRation of LY2189265 in Diabetes-3) 
Study  GBDC  was  a  52-week,  randomized,  parallel-arm,  active  comparator,  double-blind,  double-dummy, 
noninferiority monotherapy study comparing dulaglutide (1.5 mg or 0.75 mg once-weekly) with metformin in 
patients with early T2DM. This is the pivotal study for the monotherapy indication. 
The study consisted of 3 periods: a lead-in period of approximately 2 weeks, a 52-week treatment period, and 
a 4-week safety follow-up period. The primary objective of this study was to show noninferiority of dulaglutide 
1.5 mg to metformin at 26 weeks of treatment based on HbA1c change from baseline in patients with T2DM 
(noninferiority margin 0.4%).  
The study enrolled male and nonpregnant female patients ≥18 years who had had T2DM for ≥3 months and ≤5 
years; been not optimally controlled with diet and exercise and either treatment-naïve or on 1 OAM (≤50% of 
the  recommended  maximum  daily  dose  [per  the  local  label]),  excluding  TZDs  (the Applicant  clarified  that 
because  TZDs  are  recognized  to  have  a  prolonged  waning  of  glycaemic  effect following  discontinuation 
compared to other OAMs, recent use of TZDs was excluded to limit the potential for a confounding effect on 
baseline glycaemia), for at least 3 months; had an HbA1c ≥6.5% and ≤9.5% (Visit 1); had stable weight (±5%) 
≥3 months prior to screening (Visit 1) and a BMI between 23 and 45 kg/m2, inclusive. It is noted that patients 
with moderate and severe renal failure were excluded and this, as discussed also below, is the case in most 
phase 3 trials. Similarly patients with heart failure NYHA III/VI, recent MI, stroke or hepatic disease were not 
included in the study (as is also the case for most pivotal trials). 
All patients in the study received both an injectable and an oral study agent to maintain treatment blinding. 
Dulaglutide (SC injection 1.5 mg or 0.75 mg) was administered once-weekly, with metformin given as two 500 
mg tablets 2 times daily by mouth (total daily dose [TDD] of 2000 mg/day) or three 500 mg tablets (TDD 1500 
mg/day)  as  tolerated  by  the  patient..  During  the  2-week  lead-in  period,  all  patients  self-injected  placebo 
injection solution for training purposes.  
Figure 15 Study GBDC design. 
Abbreviations: BMI = body mass index; HbA1c = glycosylated hemoglobin A1c; OAM = oral antihyperglycemic 
medication;  T2DM  =  type  2  diabetes  mellitus. Note:  Patients  initiated  metformin  at  a  dose  of  500  mg  and 
uptitrated weekly to a total dose of 2000 mg or at least 1500 mg based on ability to tolerate medication  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 64/172 
 
  
  
 
Study H9X-MC-GBCF 
A  Phase  2/3,  Placebo-Controlled,  Efficacy  and  Safety  Study  of  Once-Weekly,  Subcutaneous  LY2189265 
Compared to Sitagliptin in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus on Metformin  
Study  GBCF  was  an  adaptive,  inferentially  seamless,  confirmatory,  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind, 
double-dummy, parallel group clinical trial comparing once-weekly dulaglutide to once-daily sitagliptin (100 mg) 
and placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) treated with metformin. As discussed in  Dose 
response section above in the initial dose-finding part (Stage 1) of the study, 7 doses of dulaglutide (0.25, 0.5, 
0.75, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, and 3.0 mg), sitagliptin, and placebo were assessed. At the completion of the dose-finding 
part, the dulaglutide 1.5 mg and 0.75 mg doses were selected for the second stage (Stage 2). Patients assigned 
to the non-selected dulaglutide doses in Stage 1 were discontinued. The final analyses were based on pooled 
data  (across  both  stages)  from  the  primary  treatment  arms  (dulaglutide  1.5  mg  and  dulaglutide  0.75  mg, 
placebo, and sitagliptin) in patients enrolled before and after dose selection (that is, inferentially seamless). 
The use of this inferentially seamless design is controversial. By the nature of the design patients on certain 
doses are being chosen to carry on in the study because they have a good response to treatment, and therefore 
the phase III part of the study analysis is not an independent confirmation of the efficacy of the selected doses. 
However in this case Stage 2 was also sufficiently powered to enable these data to be assessed in a stand-alone 
manner.  The  applicant  has  also  justified  the  validity  of  combining  both  stages  by  using  simulations  that 
demonstrate the type I error is well controlled, as well as discussing the similarity in patients characteristics for 
both stages and the consistency of results when both stages are analysed together versus including only Stage 
2 subjects. 
The primary objective was to show noninferiority of the higher dulaglutide dose (if 2 doses were selected) to 
sitagliptin with respect to change in HbA1c at 12 months (52 weeks). The final endpoint was 24 months (104 
weeks). Placebo comparisons were planned at 6 months (before switching patients from placebo to sitagliptin in 
a  blinded  manner).  The  noninferiority  margin  was  0.25%.  The  primary  analysis  consisted  of  data  from  all 
patients assigned to the primary treatment arms throughout both stages of the study. However, Stage 2 was 
also sufficiently powered to enable these data to be assessed in a stand-alone manner. 
Figure 16 Study GBCF design, dulaglutide versus placebo or sitagliptin, in combination with metformin. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 65/172 
 
  
  
 
Abbreviations: BMI = body  mass  index; HbA1c  = glycosylated hemoglobin A1c; Met = metformin; T2DM = type 2  diabetes  mellitus.  a All 
treatments were added to metformin ≥1500 mg/day.  
If patients were receiving OAMs at screening, other than metformin, they were to discontinue those. Patients 
were required to continue a stable dose metformin (≥1500 mg/day) throughout the treatment period, except in 
certain clinical situations. 
The study enrolled male and female patients 18 to 75 years of age (inclusive) with T2DM for ≥6 months; had 
been  treated  with  diet  and  exercise  alone,  or  taking  metformin  or  another  OAM  as  monotherapy,  or  taking 
metformin in combination with another OAM at screening; must have been able to tolerate metformin at a dose 
≥1500 mg daily for 6 weeks or more prior to randomization; had an HbA1c ≥7.0% to ≤9.5% as determined at 
screening, except patients on diet and exercise therapy, who must have had HbA1c values >8.0% to ≤9.5% at 
that visit; had a body mass index (BMI) between 25 and 40 kg/m2, inclusive, and stable weight during the 3 
months prior to screening. Again, patients with significant kidney or liver disease as well as those with recent 
cardiovascular events were excluded. 
All  patients  were  assigned  to  both  an  injectable  and  an  oral  study  agent  to  maintain  treatment  blinding.  If 
patients were receiving OAMs at screening, other than metformin, they were to discontinue those. Patients were 
required  to  continue  a  stable  dose  metformin  (≥1500  mg/day)  throughout  the  treatment  period,  except  in 
certain clinical situations. Dulaglutide was administered SC (left or right abdominal wall), once weekly. Patients 
in the sitagliptin group received a 100 mg dose administered orally as a single, once daily tablet. They also 
administered placebo injection once weekly to match dulaglutide administration.  
Study H9X-MC-GBDA 
A  Randomized,  Placebo-Controlled  Comparison  of  the  Effects  of  Two  Doses  of  LY2189265  or  Exenatide  on 
Glycemic Control in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes on Stable Doses of Metformin and Pioglitazone (AWARD-1: 
Assessment of Weekly AdministRation of LY2189265 in Diabetes-1) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 66/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Study GBDA was a 12-month, parallel-arm, placebo-controlled, active comparator study comparing 2 doses of 
dulaglutide  with  open  label  exenatide,  or  placebo,  in  T2DM  patients  treated  with  maximally  tolerated 
concomitant OAMs, metformin and pioglitazone. The primary objective was to demonstrate the superiority of 
once-weekly SC dulaglutide 1.5 mg versus placebo on HbA1c at 26 weeks (change from baseline) in patients 
with T2DM who were taking maximally tolerated doses of metformin and pioglitazone. Among the secondary 
objectives was to demonstrate that dulaglutide 1.5 mg is noninferior to exenatide at 26 weeks. Figure 17 below 
shows the study design. 
Figure 17 Study GBDA design, dulaglutide versus placebo or exenatide, in combination with metformin + TZD. 
Abbreviations:  BMI  =  body  mass  index;  HbA1c  =  glycosylated  hemoglobin  A1c;  Met  =  metformin; OAM=  oral 
antihyperglycemic medication(s); Pio = pioglitazone, T2DM = type 2 diabetes mellitus. a Exenatide dose was 5 mcg 
twice daily for first 4 weeks and 10 mcg twice daily thereafter. b All treatments were added to maximally tolerated 
doses of metformin and pioglitazone.  
Patients included were male and non-pregnant female T2DM ≥18 years of age. Qualifying HbA1c values at Visit 
1 were ≥7% and ≤11% if on stable doses of OAM monotherapy for 3 months before screening (on minimal 
therapeutic dose or higher at Visit 1 [metformin 1500 mg; pioglitazone 15 mg; rosiglitazone 2 mg]); or ≥7% 
and ≤10% if on 2 or 3 OAMs at screening. Patients were required to be able to tolerate a minimum dosage of 
metformin of 1500 mg/day or the highest tolerable local label dose, and pioglitazone up to 30 mg/day, or the 
highest tolerable local label dose.  
Patients who satisfied the eligibility criteria (at screening, Visit 1) continued in lead-in period (12 weeks; Visits 
2 through 5). At Visit 5 eligible patients were randomized in a 2:2:2:1 ratio to the following 4 treatment arms: 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week; dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week; exenatide 5 mcg twice-daily for 4 weeks followed by 10 
mcg  twice  daily;  placebo  injection  once  weekly  for  26  weeks,  followed  by  a  switch  (1:1  ratio)  to  active 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week or 0.75 mg/week. In each arm, patients were also to take metformin (up to 2550 
mg/day or the highest tolerable local label dose) and pioglitazone (up to 45 mg/day or the highest tolerable local 
label dose) after up-titration during the lead-in period, and continuing throughout the treatment period (unless 
dose  modifications  were  required).  The  main  phase  of  the  trial  was  the  open-label  to  comparator  and 
double-blind to dulaglutide dose assignment and placebo initial treatment period (26 weeks; Visits 5 through 
10) followed by a safety treatment period (26 weeks; Visits 10 through 12).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 67/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Study H9X-MC-GBDB 
A Randomized, Open-Label, Parallel-Arm, Noninferiority Comparison of the Effects of 2 Doses of LY2189265 and 
Insulin  Glargine  on  Glycemic  Control  in  Patients  with  Type  2  Diabetes  on  Stable  Doses  of  Metformin  and 
Glimepiride (AWARD-2: Assessment of Weekly AdministRation of LY2189265 in Diabetes-2) 
Study  GBDB  was  an  open-label  comparator  (double-blind  with  respect  to  dulaglutide  dose  assignment), 
parallel-arm, randomized, 78-week treatment study with 4 study periods: a lead-in period of approximately 10 
weeks, a treatment period of 52 weeks, an extended treatment period of 26 weeks, and a safety follow-up 
period of 4 weeks (Figure 16). The primary objective was to show noninferiority (noninferiority margin 0.4%) of 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg relative to insulin glargine (titrated-to-target) for HbA1c at 52 weeks (change from baseline) 
in patients with T2DM who were taking metformin and glimepiride.  
Figure 16 Study GBDB design, dulaglutide versus insulin glargine, in combination with metformin +SU. 
Abbreviations:  BMI  =  body  mass  index;  Glim  =  glimepiride;  HbA1c  =  glycosylated  hemoglobin  A1c;  Met  =  metformin; 
OAM= oral  antihyperglycemic  medication;  SU  =  sulphonylurea;  T2DM  =  type  2  diabetes  mellitus. a  All  treatments  were 
added to maximally tolerated doses of metformin and glimepiride.  
The study included male and nonpregnant female patients aged ≥18 years with T2DM not optimally controlled 
with 1, 2, or 3 OAMs (at least 1 of which must have been metformin or a sulphonylurea). At Visit 1 HbA1c was 
to  be  (a)  ≥7%  and  ≤11%  if  on  OAM  monotherapy  for  3  months  before screening  AND  on  the  minimal 
monotherapy  required  dose  or  higher  at  Visit  1  (metformin  1500  mg;  glimepiride 4  mg;  for  other 
sulphonylureas, the minimal required dose must have been at least 50% of the recommended maximum daily 
dose) OR (b) ≥7 and ≤10% if on 2 or 3 OAMs for 3 months before screening; other allowed OAMs were DPP-IV 
inhibitors, thiazolidinediones, glinides and alpha-glucosidase inhibitors.   
After the lead in phase all patients who continued to meet the eligibility criteria were randomly assigned to 1 of 
3 arms (1:1:1): dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week, dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week, or once-daily insulin glargine. In each of 
the  3  treatment  arms,  patients  also took  concomitantly  metformin  (at least 1500  mg/day  or the  maximum 
approved dose in the local label in participating countries) and glimepiride (at least 4 mg/day, or maximum 
approved dose in the local label in participating countries) starting at Visit 2 and until the last on-treatment visit 
(unless dose modifications were required). During the initial 4 to 8 weeks of the treatment period (Visits 7 to 8), 
patients in the insulin glargine arm were expected to achieve optimal glycaemic control; they were required to 
adjust their insulin dose as needed in order to decrease their fasting plasma glucose (FPG) to the target level 
(<5.6 mmol/L).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 68/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  randomized  patients  who  completed  the  treatment  period,  or  an  early  termination  visit  after  starting 
treatment, were required to complete Visit 17 (LV30), a safety follow-up visit approximately 4 weeks after their 
last visit.  
Study H9X-MC-GBDD 
The Impact of LY2189265 versus Insulin Glargine Both in Combination with Insulin Lispro for the Treatment to 
Target  of  Type  2  Diabetes  Mellitus  (AWARD-4:  Assessment  of  Weekly  AdministRation  of  LY2189265  in 
Diabetes-4) 
Study GBDD was a parallel-arm, open-label, double-blind (with respect to dulaglutide dose), active comparator 
study. The study consisted of 3 study periods: a screening and lead-in period of approximately 10 weeks, a 
52-week treatment period, and a 4-week safety follow-up period (LV30) for 30 days after the last treatment 
period  visit  (Figure  18).  The  primary  objective  was  to  show  noninferiority  (noninferiority  margin  0.4%)  of 
once-weekly SC 1.5-mg dulaglutide to insulin glargine (treated-to-target) on HbA1c at 26 weeks (change from 
baseline) in patients with T2DM who were treated in combination with prandial insulin lispro with or without 
metformin.  
Figure  18  Study  GBDD  design,  dulaglutide  versus  insulin  glargine,  in  combination  with  insulin  lispro  ± 
metformin. 
Abbreviations: BMI = body mass index; CIT = conventional insulin therapy; HbA1c = glycosylated hemoglobin A1c; Met = 
metformin;  OAM=  oral  antihyperglycemic medication;  T2DM  =  type  2  diabetes  mellitus. a  During  lead-in  and  treatment 
period, metformin was allowed but not mandated. Conventional insulin therapy was continued through the lead-in period, 
and at randomization patients were switched to one of the three treatment arms.  
The study population included male and nonpregnant/non-breastfeeding female T2DM patients age ≥18 years 
and a screening HbA1c ≥7% and ≤11% after treated for ≥3 months with a conventional insulin regimen (≤2 
insulin doses/day including any combination of basal, basal with prandial, or premixed insulin [excluding any 
prandial insulin only regimen]), alone or in combination with OAMs. Eligible patients must have been on stable 
doses of insulin (to confirm that increase of therapy was needed). Investigators should use the following criteria 
to assess whether the most appropriate (or optimized) insulin dose had been administered during a 3 month 
period: (a) FPG target as suggested in the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and European Association for 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 69/172 
 
  
  
 
 
the Study of Diabetes (EASD) consensus statement on treatment of T2DM (70–130mg/dL [3.9–7.2mmol/L]); 
and (b) hypoglycaemia risk associated with insulin dose titration. Patients treated with a multiple daily insulin 
(MDI) injection regimen (defined as the need to administer ≥3 insulin doses daily, at different timepoints) were 
considered as ineligible.  
After  screening  at  Visit  2  eligible  patients  were  instructed  to  discontinue  all  OAMs  with  the  exception  of 
metformin. For patients already on metformin but on a dose <1500 mg/day it was required that the dose be 
adjusted to reach the final dose (≥1500 mg/day). At Visit 4 (Week 0) patients who had achieved optimal PG 
control could be considered for discontinuation before randomization. Eligible patients discontinued their current 
insulin therapy and were randomized (1:1:1) to 1 of 3 treatment groups: prandial insulin lispro in combination 
with 1.5mg or 0.75mg dulaglutide, or insulin glargine. For patients on metformin, the dose of metformin was to 
remain unchanged throughout the treatment period, except when allowed by the protocol.  
In general, Study GBDD, as a trial aiming at investigating the efficacy and safety of the combination of a new 
antidiabetic agent with insulin, is unusual as it  departs from  the most common scenario with the new drug 
expected to be administered with basal insulin (with or without another OAM like metformin) in non-adequately 
controlled patients. Instead, dulaglutide was administered as add-on to prandial insulin.  
The Applicant suggested that Study GBDD adopted a unique strategy investigating a direct comparison between 
insulin glargine and dulaglutide as basal treatment for glucose control. This is an interesting concept and the 
findings of the study are valuable; however, this is an approach not fully in line with current treatment principles 
and the sequential insulin strategies suggested by the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) 
and the American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommending basal insulin alone as the optimal initial insulin 
regimen (possibly in conjunction with one to two noninsulin agents), with the addition of shorter-acting insulins 
when better control is required. Study GBDD does not provide any information about the efficacy and especially 
the safety of dulaglutide in combination with basal insulin and the current lack of such data in the dulaglutide 
clinical  program  is  an  issue  that  requires  further  consideration.  The  Applicant  indicated  that,  a  Phase  3b, 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (Study GBDI) is currently ongoing, evaluating the glycaemic 
effects (change in HbA1c) of dulaglutide 1.5 mg once weekly versus placebo in combination with insulin glargine 
over 28 weeks.  
Statistical methods  
The primary analysis model was ANCOVA for the change from baseline to endpoint in the ITT population. Missing 
endpoints were imputed with the last observation carried forward (LOCF). If there was no data after the date of 
randomization,  the  endpoint  was  considered  missing  and  baseline  data  were  not  used  as  an  endpoint.  This 
imputation could overestimate the treatment effect in those patients that withdraw due to reasons other than 
lack of efficacy, such as adverse events, as it will carry forward a good treatment effect even when they can no 
longer tolerate treatment. The overestimation may be even larger for those subjects that withdraw early in the 
studies with the primary endpoint at 52 weeks, as it can be seen from the results that the treatments seem to 
have a greater effect at 26 weeks than at 52.  
Sensitivity analyses using MMRM were provided, but these also suffer from the same problem of assuming that 
patients that withdraw from the study keep benefiting from treatment, therefore the applicant  was asked to 
discuss the pattern of missing data on each treatment and to provide more conservative sensitivity analyses 
including baseline observation carried forward and multiple imputation. The missing data pattern was similar 
between treatments and did not raise concerns. The sensitivity analyses provided were also satisfactory and 
supported the conclusions of the primary analyses, therefore no concerns remain over the handling of missing 
data.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 70/172 
 
  
  
A  tree  gatekeeping  strategy  was  used  in  all  studies  to  control  the  family-wise  Type  I  error  rate  across 
comparisons  of  dulaglutide  versus  placebo,  dulaglutide  versus  active  comparator  and  testing  for  superiority 
after non-inferiority.   
Confidence  intervals  (CI)  were  calculated  at  nominal  95%,  2-sided.  These  confidence  intervals  should  be 
interpreted with care as their simultaneous coverage probability is smaller than 95%. 
For the additional continuous secondary efficacy measures, the MMRM model was applied; body weight was also 
analysed using the ANCOVA (LOCF). The analyses of binary outcomes were performed using a logistic regression 
model (LOCF, also GEE model for repeated outcomes). 
Study GBCF was an adaptive inferential seamless phase 2/3 trial. There are 3 main features which make this 
design “adaptive”. First, the probability of a new patient being assigned to a given dulaglutide dose was adapted 
based on accumulating data in stage 1. Second, dose selection for stage 2 was determined in stage 1 based on 
accumulating data, third, the sample sizes in stage 1 and stage 2 were determined adaptively. The seamless 
design permitted a single trial to combine objectives traditionally addressed in separate trials. It allowed the 
final analysis to use data from patients enrolled before and after the adaptation (that is, inferentially seamless). 
The seamless component of the design was expected to enable a more robust safety and efficacy assessment of 
the chosen dulaglutide doses by allowing inclusion of all randomized patients (from both randomization stages) 
in the planned analyses. In addition, this design would provide longer-term safety data earlier in the clinical 
development program. Although it seems questionable whether it was meaningful to use this trial design, it 
appears that no particular concern on the validity of the efficacy conclusions from the trial arises due to the 
adaptive seamless design, especially since the conclusions still hold when only data from the second stage is 
analysed. Nevertheless thinking of the results that might eventually populate the SPC, a justification that the 
two stages of the trial can be combined was requested. The applicant has justified the validity of combining both 
stages  by  using  simulations  that  demonstrate  the  type  I  error  is  well  controlled,  as  well  as  discussing  the 
similarity  in  patients  characteristics  for  both  stages  and  the  consistency  of  results  when  both  stages  are 
analysed together versus  including only Stage  2 subjects. Measures  were also put in place  to minimise the 
operational and statistical bias that may be introduced by interim analyses. 
Results 
NOTE:  As  in  the  Methods  section  the  studies  are  presented  not  in  chronological  order  but  in  an  order 
representing the stages of the T2DM treatment continuum from monotherapy, combination with one or more 
OAMs, and combination with insulin: Studies GBDC, GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD. 
Study populations – Baseline data  
The T2DM population was generally well represented by the patients participating across the 5 Phase 3 studies 
with approximately 51.0% males and a mean baseline age of 56.2 years (Table 14). The majority of the patients 
were white (69.1%) and approximately one-third of the patient population was of  Hispanic/Latino ethnicity. 
Trials were conducted world-wide in a total of 27 countries. Approximately 41.4%, 23.4%, 10.0%, and 25.3% 
of the patients were enrolled from  countries in  United  States and Canada, Europe, Asia, and other regions, 
respectively. Across the 5 studies at baseline mean body mass index (BMI) ranged from 31.2 kg/m2 to 33.3 
kg/m2. 18.5% of patients were at least 65 years of age or older, while 1.9% of patients were at least 75 years 
of age or older.  
Table 14 Summary of Patient Demographics in the Five Long-Term Dulaglutide Phase 3 Studies, ITT 
GBDC (Mono)   GBCF  
(MET)  
GBDA 
(MET+TZD)  
GBDB 
(MET+SU)  
GBDD 
(Lispro±MET)  
Total  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 71/172 
 
  
  
 
 
ITT, N  
Sex, n (%)  
Male  
Female  
Age (years)  
Mean (SD)  
Median Min;  
Max  
Age Group, n (%)  
<65 years  
≥65 years  
<75 years  
≥75 years  
Ethnicity, n (%)a  
Hispanic/Latino  
Not ispanic/Latino  
Unknown  
Race, n (%)  
American 
Indian/Alaskan 
Asian  
Black/African 
American  
807  
1098  
976  
807  
884  
4572  
353 (43.7)  
454 (56.3)  
521 (47.4)  
577 (52.6)  
570 (58.4)  
406 (41.6)  
414 (51.3)  
393 (48.7)  
473 (53.5)  
411 (46.5)  
2331 (51.0)  
2241 (49.0)  
55.6 (10.4)  
55.6  
25.3; 83.6  
54.1 (9.9)  
54.7  
19.8; 76.3  
664 (82.3)  
143 (17.7)  
786 (97.4)  
21 (2.6)  
954 (86.9)  
144 (13.1)  
1096 (99.8)  
2 (0.2)  
55.6 (9.8)  
56.1  
19.9; 85.7  
820 (84.0)  
156 (16.0)  
958 (98.2)  
18 (1.8)  
56.7 (9.5)  
57.3  
27.0; 86.5  
646 (80.0)  
161 (20.0)  
793 (98.3)  
14 (1.7)  
59.4 (9.2)  
59.7  
27.8; 83.8  
641 (72.5)  
243 (27.5)  
853 (96.5)  
31 (3.5)  
272 (33.7)  
535 (66.3)  
0 (0.0)  
210 (19.1)  
887 (80.8)  
1 (0.1)  
331 (33.9)  
644 (66.0)  
1 (0.1)  
291 (36.1)  
516 (63.9)  
0 (0.0)  
303 (34.3)  
581 (65.7)  
0 (0.0)  
56.2 (9.9)  
56.7  
19.8; 86.5  
3725 (81.5)  
847 (18.5)  
4486 (98.1)  
86 (1.9)  
1407 (30.8)  
3163 (69.2)  
2 (0.0)  
85 (10.5)  
1 (0.1)  
135 (13.8)  
89 (11.0)  
46 (5.2)  
356 (7.8)  
61 (7.6)  
53 (6.6)  
273 (24.9)  
44 (4.0)  
24 (2.5)  
76 (7.8)  
137 (17.0) 
4 (0.5)  
35 (4.0)  
85 (9.6)  
530 (11.6)  
262 (5.7)  
Multiple/Unknown a  
7 (0.9)  
211 (19.2) 
12 (1.2)  
7 (0.9)  
20 (2.3)  
257 (5.6)  
1 (0.1)  
697 (78.8)  
0 (0.0)  
570 (70.6)  
1 (0.1)  
568 (51.7)  
3 (0.3)  
726 (74.4)  
1 (0.1)  
600 (74.3)  
6 (0.1)  
3161 (69.1)  
86.4 (17.3)  
84.2  
49.5; 156.2  
96.0 (19.6)  
94.8  
46.0; 157.3  
86.3 (18.6)  
84.8  
46.6; 152.5  
Hawaiian/Pacific  
White  
Weight at Baseline (kg)  
92.3 (18.9)  
Mean (SD)  
90.2  
Median  
47.0; 173.0  
Min; Max  
Weight Group at Baseline, n (%)  
396 (49.1)  
<90 kg  
≥90 kg  
411 (50.9)  
BMI at Baseline (kg/m2) 
Mean (SD)  
Median  
Min; Max  
BMI Group at Baseline, n (%) 
<25 kg/m2  
57 (5.8)  
≥25 and <30 kg/m2  
242 (24.8)  
≥30 and <35 kg/m2  
321 (32.9)  
≥35 kg/m2  
356 (36.5)  
Abbreviations: BMI = body mass index; eCRF = electronic case report form;  ITT = intent-to-treat; Lispro = insulin lispro; Max = maximum; MET = 
metformin; Min  =  minimum; n  = number  of patients  in  category;  N = number of  patients; SD  =  standard  deviation; SU  = sulphonylurea; TZD = 
thiazolidinedione. a Ethnicity was not collected in Study GBCF. However, Hispanic was listed as a choice in the eCRF for race; therefore, those patients 
who selected Hispanic have been noted as such for ethnicity analyses and have their race noted as unknown. 
280 (6.1)  
1396 (30.5)  
1537 (33.6)  
1359 (29.7)  
35 (4.3)  
210 (26.0)  
273 (33.8)  
289 (35.8)  
50 (4.6)  
437 (39.8)  
358 (32.6)  
253 (23.0)  
93 (11.5)  
247 (30.6)  
269 (33.3)  
198 (24.5)  
45 (5.1)  
260 (29.4)  
316 (35.7)  
263 (29.8)  
90.4 (18.9)  
88.6  
46.0; 173.0  
91.1 (18.4)  
89.9  
51.0; 154.0  
33.3 (5.5)  
32.6  
22.4; 54.3  
33.2 (5.4)  
32.8  
21.3; 48.0  
32.3 (5.2)  
31.8  
19.8; 54.3  
31.5 (5.5)  
31.2  
21.0; 45.7  
32.5 (5.2)  
31.9  
19.8; 46.8  
31.2 (4.4)  
30.8  
22.9; 51.2  
2391 (52.3)  
2181 (47.7)  
396 (40.6)  
580 (59.4)  
666 (60.7)  
432 (39.3)  
445 (50.3)  
439 (49.7)  
488 (60.5)  
319 (39.5)  
Duration  of  diabetes  ranged  from  2.6  [Study  GBDC]  to  12.7  years  [Study  GBDD]  and  previous  antidiabetic 
treatments reflected the prespecified inclusion criteria in each study. Mean baseline HbA1c ranged from 7.6% 
(Study GBDC) to 8.5% (Study GBDD), mean FBG at baseline ranged from 153.9 mg/dL (8.5 mmol/L; Study 
GBDD) to 174.5 mg/dL (9.7 mmol/L; Study GBCF), and mean PPG at baseline ranged from 190.2 mg/dL (10.56 
mmol/L; Study GBDB) to 203.0 mg/dL (11.27 mmol/L; Study GBDD).  
Table 15 Summary of Diabetes Disease Characteristics in the Five Long-Term Dulaglutide Phase 3 Studies, ITT 
GBDC 
(Mono) 
807 
ITT, N  
Duration of Diabetes (yrs)  
2.6 (1.8)  
Mean (SD)  
2.5  
Median  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
GBCF  
(MET) 
1098  
GBDA 
(MET+TZD) 
976  
GBDB 
(MET+SU) 
807  
GBDD  
(Lispro ±MET) 
884  
Total 
4572  
7.1 (5.2)  
6.0  
8.8 (5.6)  
8.0  
9.1 (6.0)  
8.0  
12.7 (7.0)  
11.8  
8.1 (6.3)  
7.0  
Page 72/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.3; 38.0  
0.1; 25.0  
1.0; 34.0  
0.1; 53.0  
0.3; 42.0  
0.4; 53.0  
484 (60.0)  
323 (40.0)  
582 (59.6)  
394 (40.4)  
300 (33.9)  
584 (66.1)  
2984 (65.3)  
1588 (34.7)  
7.6 (0.9)  
7.4  
6.0; 11.3  
0 (0.0)  
0 (0.0)  
0 (0.0)  
884 (100)  
0 (0.0)  
0 (0.0)  
128 (15.9)  
679 (84.1)  
0 (0.0)  
0 (0.0)  
63 (5.7)  
728 (66.3)  
307 (28.0)  
0 (0.0)  
4 (0.4)  
11 (1.1)  
241 (24.7)  
724 (74.2)  
0 (0.0)  
0 (0.0)  
275 (6.0)  
1703 (37.2)  
1710 (37.4)  
884 (19.3)  
4 (0.1)  
201 (24.9)b  
606 (75.1)b  
0 (0.0)  
0 (0.0)  
0 (0.0)  
Min; Max  
Duration of Diabetes Group, n (%)  
815 (74.2)  
803 (99.5)  
<10 years  
≥10 years  
283 (25.8)  
4 (0.5)  
Antidiabetic Treatment at Screening, n (%)  
No OAMa  
1 OAMa  
>1 OAMa  
Insulin±OAM(s) 
Unknown  
HbA1c (%) at Baseline  
Mean (SD)  
Median  
Min; Max  
HbA1c (%) Group at Baseline, n (%)  
<8.5%  
≥8.5%  
Unknown  
FBG (mg/dL) at Baselinec, d  
Mean (SD)  
Median  
Min; Max  
Mean PPG (mg/dL) at Baselinec, d  
201.9 (56.3)  
Mean (SD)  
189.8  
Median  
Min; Max  
107.8; 465.7 
Abbreviations:  FBG  =  fasting  blood  glucose  (central  laboratory);  HbA1c  =  glycosylated  hemoglobin  A1c;  ITT  =  intent-to-treat;  IVRS  = 
interactive voice response system; Lispro = insulin lispro; Max = maximum; MET = metformin; Min = minimum; n = number of patients in 
category;  N  =  number  of  patients;  NA  =  not  applicable;  OAM  =  oral  antihyperglycaemic  medication;  PPG  =  postprandial  glucose  (self- 
onitored); SU = sulphonylurea; TZD = thiazolidinedione. 
190.2 (47.5)   203.0 (48.1)  
182.1  
82.7; 428.5 
163.2 (48.5)   153.9 (53.2)  
156.6  
43.2; 343.8  
193.5 (49.6)  
184.1  
95.8; 439.8  
745 (67.9)  
351 (32.0) 2  
(0.2)  
162.1 (47.0)  
151.2  
72.0; 419.4  
174.5 (54.5)  
162.3  
48.6; 403.2  
3063 (67.0)  
1498 (32.8)  
11 (0.2)  
162.0 (53.5) 
149.4  
59.4; 415.8 
470 (53.2)  
405 (45.8)  
9 (1.0)  
667 (68.3)  
309 (31.7)  
0 (0.0)  
523 (64.8)  
284 (35.2)  
0 (0.0)  
658 (81.5)  
149 (18.5)  
0 (0.0)  
8.5 (1.0)  
8.3  
6.0; 13.0  
8.1 (1.1)  
7.9  
4.9; 13.9  
8.1 (1.3)  
7.7  
6.2; 13.8  
8.1 (1.1)  
7.9  
4.9; 13.9  
8.1 (1.0)  
8.0  
6.6; 13.3  
197.5 (51.0)  
188.7 
82.7; 465.7 
163.7 (52.2)  
153.0  
41.4; 437.4  
197.2  
104.0; 384.9 
147.6 
41.4; 437.4 
NA  
NA  
NA  
Within each study, treatment groups were well balanced with regard to baseline demographics and diabetes 
characteristics.  
In general, the main studies included a wide range of patients with T2DM that, to a large extent, appear to 
represent  well  the  intended  target  population.  Depending  on  the  specific  requirements  of  the  each  study, 
patients  with  less  to  more  advanced  disease  were  examined,  as  indicated  by  the  range  of  the  duration  of 
diabetes  and  the  glycaemic  parameters.  This  also  ensures  a  decent  representation  of  common  coexisting 
conditions and risk factors. However, there are some limitations.       
In all five Phase 3 studies, 18.5% of patients were 65 years or older, but there were only 86 patients (1.9%) 
above 75 years, a small number that  may not be sufficient to permit clear conclusions about the benefit:risk of 
dulaglutide in this age group. In addition, as also discussed in the Methods section above, patients with certain 
conditions  (mostly  reflecting  contraindications  of  the  comparators  or  background  therapy,  particularly 
metformin) including moderate and severe renal failure, advanced heart failure or hepatic abnormalities were 
mostly excluded from the trials. Further justification will be required for the use dulaglutide in all the above 
patient groups that have not been sufficiently examined.  
It is noted that approximately 23% of patients were from Europe (from 23.4% in study GBDD to 37.3% in study 
GBDB; study GBDA was carried out in US and Latin America), which is sufficient to ensure a good representation 
of European clinical standards.   
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present application. 
These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as the benefit risk 
assessment (see later sections). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 73/172 
 
  
  
 
Title: GBDC - the impact of dulaglutide versus metformin on glycemic control in early type 2 diabetes 
mellitus (AWARD-3: Assessment of weekly administration of Dulaglutide in diabetes-3) 
Study design 
Primary objectives 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
52-week, multicentre, randomised, parallel-arm, active comparator, double-blind, 
double-dummy, non-inferiority monotherapy study to compare glycemic control 
achieved with 2 doses of dulaglutide (1.5 mg or 0.75 mg once-weekly) or metformin 
in patients with early T2DM. The study consisted of 3 periods: a lead-in period of 
approximately 2 weeks, a 52-week treatment period, and a 4 week safety follow-up 
period. An optional test meal addendum was also part of the study 
To demonstrate the effect of once-weekly dulaglutide 1.5 mg injected 
subcutaneously compared to metformin on HbA1c change from baseline at 26 weeks 
in patients with early T2DM. 
Non-inferiority 
Dulaglutide 1.5 
mg/week + oral placebo 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg/week + oral placebo 
Metformin 1500 
mg/day or 2000 
mg/day + injectable 
placebo 
Number of subjects treated by treatment group:  
Main Study:  
dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week + oral placebo N=269, 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week + oral placebo N=270 
metformin 1500 mg/day or 2000 mg/day + injectable 
placebo N=268 
Test Meal Addendum: dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week, N=133; 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week, N=136; metformin N=140 
Duration of Run-in Period 
Duration of treatment 
Endpoints and definitions 
2-week lead-in period 
52 weeks double-blind treatment period, 4 week safety follow-up period 
Primary 
Secondary 
Change in HbA1c from baseline at week 26 
Change from baseline at week 26 in: 
Database lock date 
Primary analysis description 
Analysis population 
Fasting serum glucose (FSG) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% 
Body weight 
30 August 2012 
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model for the change from baseline to endpoint, 
with treatment, country, and prior medication group (not on OAM versus on OAM) 
as fixed effects and HbA1c baseline value as a covariate. Missing endpoints were 
imputed with LOCF (post-baseline values only). A tree gate-keeping strategy to 
control the family-wise Type 1 error was used for a superiority comparison of 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week vs. metformin and non-inferiority and superiority 
comparisons of dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week vs. metformin. 
Number of subjects in ITT population (Main Study): dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 
N=269, dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week N=270, metformin N=268; completed 26 weeks 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week N=233, dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week N=242, Metformin 
N=226 
Primary efficacy results (Main 
Study) 
Baseline 
Week 26 
HbA1c Mean (SD):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 7.63 
(0.92) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 7.58 
(0.87) 
Metformin 7.60 (0.82) 
Change in HbA1c , LS mean difference (SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -0.78 (0.06) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.71 (0.06) 
Metformin -0.56 (0.06) 
LS Mean Difference (95% CI) vs. metformin: 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -0.22 (-0.36, -0.08) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.15 (-0.29, -0.01) 
P value (multiplicity adjusted, 
1-sided): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week vs. metformin 
<0.001 for non-inferiority, 0.002 for 
superiority 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week vs. metformin 
<0.001 for non-inferiority, 0.02 for superiority 
FSG (mmol/l), change from baseline at week 26, MMRM, LS mean (SE):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.61 (0.13) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -1.46 (0.13) 
Metformin -1.34 (0.13) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% at week 26, logistic regression (LOCF):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 61.5%, 46% 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 62.6%, 40% 
Secondary Results 
(Main Study) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 74/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title: GBCF - a phase 2/3, placebo controlled, efficacy and safety study of once- weekly, subcutaneous 
dulaglutide compared to sitagliptin in patients with T2DM on metformin 
Study design 
Metformin 53.6%, 29.8% 
Body Weight (kg), change from baseline at Week 26, ANCOVA, LOCF, LS Mean 
(SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -2.29 (0.24) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -1.36 (0.24) 
Metformin -2.22 (0.24) 
Study GBCF was an adaptive, inferentially seamless, Phase 2/3, outpatient 
multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, 24-month, double-blind, parallel 
clinical trial comparing once-weekly dulaglutide to once-daily sitagliptin (100 mg) 
and to placebo in patients with T2DM on metformin. The treatment period for Study 
GBCF was 24 months, with database locks at 12 and 24 months. The placebo period 
lasted up to 6 months 
To demonstrate that the glycemic control of the high dose of dulaglutide selected at 
the decision point is noninferior to that of sitagliptin at 52 weeks, as measured by 
HbA1c change from baseline in patients with T2DM on metformin. The noninferiority 
margin was 0.25%. The trial design also incorporated an initial dose-finding stage 
to enable selection of 1 or 2 doses of dulaglutide (from the 0.25 to 3.0 mg range) to 
be assessed in the confirmatory part of thestudy and the remainder of the phase 3 
program 
Non-inferiority 
Background metformin 
therapy in all treatment 
groups (oral daily dose 
≥1500 mg/day) 
Stage 1: Dulaglutide 
(0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 
1.5, 2.0, and 3.0 mg) 
injected SC once 
weekly+ oral placebo 
Stage 2: Dulaglutide 
0.75, and 1.5 mg/week 
+ oral placebo 
Sitagliptin 100 
mg/day+ injectable 
placebo 
Placebo:oral placebo+ 
injectable placebo 
(switched blinded after 
6 months to Sitagliptin 
100 mg/day+ injectable 
placebo) 
4 to 11 week lead-in period 
104 weeks double-blind treatment period including 26 weeks placebo treatment 
(blinded switch to sitagliptin), 4 week safety follow-up period 
Primary 
Secondary 
Number of subjects treated by treatment group:  
Dose-finding (phase 1 adaptive randomization): N=230; 
38 placebo/sitagliptin; 42 sitagliptin; 24 dulaglutide 0.25 
mg; 25 dulaglutide 0.5 mg; 21 dulaglutide 0.75 mg; 10 
dulaglutide 1.0 mg; 25 dulaglutide 1.5 mg; 30 
dulaglutide 2.0 mg, 15 dulaglutide 3.0 mg.  
Primary treatment arms (stage 1 and stage 2 adaptive 
and fixed-allocation randomization): N=1098; 177 
placebo/sitagliptin; 315 sitagliptin; 302 dulaglutide 0.75 
mg; 304 dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
Primary treatment arms (stage 2 fixed randomization 
only): N=972; 139 placebo/sitagliptin; 273 sitagliptin; 
281 dulaglutide 0.75 mg; 279 dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
Change in HbA1c from baseline at week 52 
Change from baseline at week 52 in: 
Fasting serum glucose (FSG) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% 
Body weight 
27 August 2012 
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with fixed effects for treatment, country, and 
baseline HbA1c as a covariate. Missing endpoints were imputed with LOCF. Key 
secondary efficacy measures included change in HbA1c from baseline at 6 and 12 
months. The analyses for the primary and key secondary objectives comprised 6 
ordered hypotheses for non-inferiority and superiority using a tree-gatekeeping 
testing strategy to control the family-wise Type 1 error rate. All analyses were 
conducted using patients randomized to the primary treatment arms throughout 
the study. An adjusted, nominal family-wise 1-sided alpha of .02 was used for the 
analysis of the primary objective and key secondary objectives to account for 
potential selection bias (alpha level of .025, 1-sided). Selected analyses were 
repeated for patients randomized using the fixed-allocation strategy (Stage 2 
randomization) alone. These were conducted without adjustment to the 
Primary objectives 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Duration of Run-in Period 
Duration of treatment 
Endpoints and definitions 
Database lock date 
Primary analysis description 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 75/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Analysis population 
Primary efficacy results 
nominal-alpha level (no potential for selection bias). 
Results presented for: ITT Primary treatment arms, adaptive and fixed-allocation 
randomization: N=1098; 177 placebo/sitagliptin; 315 sitagliptin; 302 dulaglutide 
0.75 mg; 304 dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
Baseline 
HbA1c Mean (SD):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 8.12 
(1.05) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 8.19 
(1.11) 
Sitagliptin 8.09 (1.09) 
Placebo/ Sitagliptin 8.10 (1.14) 
Week 52 (week 26 vs. placebo) 
Change in HbA1c , LS mean difference (SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.10 (0.06) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.87 (0.06) 
Sitagliptin -0.39 (0.06) 
Placebo 0.03 (0.07) at week 26 
LS Mean Difference (nominal 95% CI) vs. 
sitagliptin: 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -0.71 (-0.87, -0.55) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.47 (-0.63, -0.31) 
LS Mean Difference (nominal 95% CI) vs. 
placebo/sit: 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.26 (-1.42, -1.09) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -1.05 (-1.21, -0.88) 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week vs. sitagliptin <0.001 
for non-inferiority, <0.001 for superiority 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week vs. sitagliptin 
<0.001 for non-inferiority, <0.001 for 
superiority 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week vs. placebo/sit 
<0.001 for superiority 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week vs. placebo/sit 
<0.001 for superiority 
P value (multiplicity adjusted, 
1-sided): 
Secondary Results 
FPG (mmol/l), change from baseline at week 52, MMRM, LS mean (SE):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -2.38 (0.13) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -1.63 (0.13) 
Sitagliptin -0.90 (0.13) 
Placebo/ sit -0.92 (0.18) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% at week 52, logistic regression (LOCF): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 57.6%, 41.7% 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 48.8%, 29.0% 
Sitagliptin 33.0%, 19.2% 
Placebo/sit 34.7%, 24.4% 
Body Weight (kg), change from baseline at Week 52, ANCOVA, LOCF, LS Mean 
(SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -3.03 (0.22) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -2.60 (0.23) 
Sitagliptin -1.53 (0.22) 
Placebo/sit -1.61 (0.29) 
Title: GBDA: a randomized, placebo-controlled comparison of the effects of two doses of dulaglutide or 
exenatide on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes on stable doses of metformin and 
pioglitazone (AWARD-1: Assessment of weekly administration of LY2189265 in diabetes-1) 
Study design 
Study GBDA was a 12-month, Phase 3, outpatient, parallel-arm, 
placebo-controlled, active comparator study comparing the safety and glycemic 
control achieved with 2 doses of dulaglutide, open-label exenatide, or placebo, in 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with maximally tolerated concomitant 
oral metformin and pioglitazone. The study consisted of 4 periods: a 12-week 
lead-in period during which all patients were required to take metformin and 
pioglitazone in maximally tolerated doses. A 26-week initial (dulaglutide vs. 
placebo) treatment period followed by a 26-week safety treatment period and a 
4-week safety follow-up period 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate the superiority of 
once-weekly dulaglutide 1.5 mg injected subcutaneously versus placebo on change 
from baseline in HbA1c at 26 weeks in patients with T2DM who were taking 
maximally tolerated doses of metformin and pioglitazone. 
Superiority 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg/week Dulaglutide 
1.5 mg/week  
Number of subjects treated by treatment group:  
Randomized N=978 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week N=279 
Primary objectives 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 76/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of Run-in Period 
Duration of treatment 
Endpoints and definitions 
Database lock date 
Primary analysis description 
Analysis population 
Primary efficacy results 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week N=280 
exenatide N=278 
placebo N=141 
Exenatide 10 mcg twice 
daily 
Placebo 
+ in each of the 4 
treatment arms 
metformin (up to 2550 
mg/day or the highest 
tolerable 
local label dose) and 
pioglitazone (up to 45 
mg/day or the highest 
tolerable local label 
dose) 
12 week lead-in period 
52 weeks double-blind treatment period including 26 weeks placebo treatment 
(switch to dulaglutide 0.75 or 1.5 mg/week), 4 week safety follow-up period 
Primary 
Secondary 
Change in HbA1c from baseline at week 26 
Change from baseline at week 26 in: 
Fasting serum glucose (FSG) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% 
Body weight 
10 July 2012, re-opening and re-lock for optimization of dulaglutide ADA 
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with fixed effects for treatment, country and 
baseline HbA1c as a covariate. Missing endpoints were imputed with LOCF. The 
analyses for the primary and key secondary objectives comprised ordered 
hypotheses using a tree-gatekeeping testing strategy to control the family-wise 
type 1 error rate. Key secondary objectives compared HbA1c for dulaglutide (1.5 mg 
and 0.75 mg) and exenatide as well as placebo for non-inferiority and superiority at 
26 weeks. A non-inferiority margin of 0.4% was defined. 
ITT population dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week N=279 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week N=280 
exenatide N=278 
placebo N=141 
Baseline 
HbA1c Mean (SD):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 8.10 
(1.34) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 8.05 
(1.24) 
Exenatide 8.07 (1.34) 
Placebo 8.06 (1.31) 
Week 26 
Change in HbA1c , LS mean difference (SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.51 (0.06) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -1.30 (0.06) 
Exenatide -0.99 (0.06) 
Placebo -0.46 (0.08) 
LS Mean Difference (nominal 95% CI) vs. 
placebo: 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.05 (-1.22, -0.88) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.84 (-1.01, -0.67) 
LS Mean Difference (nominal 95% CI) vs. 
exenatide: 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -0.52 (-0.66, -0.39) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.31 (-0.44, -0.18) 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week vs. placebo <0.001 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week vs. placebo 
<0.001 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week vs. exenatide <0.001 
for non-inferiority, <0.001 for superiority 
<0.001 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week vs. exenatide 
<0.001 for non-inferiority, <0.001 for 
superiority 
P value (multiplicity adjusted, 
1-sided): 
Secondary Results 
FPG (mmol/l), change from baseline at week 26, MMRM, LS mean (SE):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -2.36 (0.12) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -1.90 (0.12) 
Exenatide -1.35 (0.12) 
Placebo-0.26 (0.17) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% at week 26, logistic regression (LOCF): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 78.2%, 62.7% 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 65.8%, 53.2% 
Exenatide 52.3%, 38.0% 
Placebo 42.9%, 24.4% 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 77/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Body Weight (kg), change from baseline at Week 26, ANCOVA, LOCF, LS Mean 
(SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.30 (0.29) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 0.20 (0.29) 
Exenatide -1.07 (0.29) 
Placebo 1.24 (0.37) 
Title: GBDB - a randomized, open-label, parallel-arm, non-inferiority comparison of the effects of 2 doses 
of LY2189265 and Insulin Glargine on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes on stable doses 
of metformin and glimepiride (AWARD-2: Assessment of weekly administration of LY2189265 in 
Diabetes) 
Study design 
Open-label comparator (double blind with respect to dulaglutide dose assignment), 
parallel arm, randomized, multicenter, 78-week treatment study with 4 study 
periods: a 10-week lead-in period, a 52-week treatment period, a 26-week 
extended treatment period, and a 4-week safety follow-up period. All patients who 
continued to meet eligibility criteria (a. o. ,who remained hyperglycemic despite 
therapy with a combination of metformin and glimepiride at maximal and stable 
doses) were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 arms (1:1:1): dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week, 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week, or once-daily insulin glargine 
The primary objective of this study was to compare the effect of once-weekly 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg to that of insulin glargine (titrated to target) on change in HbA1c 
from baseline at 52 weeks in patients with T2DM who were taking metformin and 
glimepiride. Non-inferiority relative to insulin glargine was assessed using a 
non-inferiority margin of 0.4%. 
Non-inferiority 
Dulaglutide 1.5 
mg/week Dulaglutide 
0.75 mg/week  
Insulin glargine titrated 
to target  
+ in each of the 3 
treatment arms 
metformin and 
glimepiride in doses 
established during the 
lead-in period 
10 week lead-in period 
52 weeks open-label (double –blind with respect to dulaglutide dose), 4 week safety 
follow-up period 
Primary 
Secondary 
Number of subjects treated by treatment group:  
Randomized N=810, ITT=807 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week N=273 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week N=272 
Insulin glargine N=262 
Change in HbA1c from baseline at week 52 
Change from baseline at week 52 in: 
Fasting serum glucose (FSG) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% 
Body weight 
18 June 2012, re-opening and re-lock for optimization of dulaglutide ADA 
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with fixed effects for treatment, country and 
baseline HbA1c as a covariate for assessment of non-inferiority of dulaglutide 1.5 
mg/week compared to insulin glargine. Missing endpoints were imputed with LOCF. 
The analyses for the primary and key secondary objectives comprised ordered 
hypotheses using a gate-keeping strategy to control the family-wise type 1 error 
rate. Key secondary objectives compared HbA1c for dulaglutide (1.5 mg and 0.75 
mg) and insulin glargine for non-inferiority and superiority at 52 weeks 
ITT population N=807, dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week N=273, dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 
N=272,insulin glargine N=262 
Baseline 
HbA1c Mean (SD):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 8.18 
Week 52 
Change in HbA1c , LS mean difference (SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.08 (0.06) 
Page 78/172 
Primary objectives 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Duration of Run-in Period 
Duration of treatment 
Endpoints and definitions 
Database lock date 
Primary analysis description 
Analysis population 
Primary efficacy results 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Results 
(1.03) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 8.13 
(0.98) 
Insulin glargine 8.10 (0.95) 
P value (multiplicity adjusted, 
1-sided): 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.76 (0.06) 
Insulin glargine -0.63 (0.06) 
LS Mean Difference (nominal 95% CI) vs. 
insulin glargine: 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -0.45 (-0.60, -0.29) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.13 (-0.29, 0.02) 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week vs. insulin glargine 
<0.001 for non-inferiority, <0.001 for 
superiority 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week vs. insulin glargine 
<0.001 for non-inferiority, 0.05 for superiority 
FPG (mmol/l), change from baseline at week 52, MMRM, LS mean (SE):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.50( 0.14) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.87 (0.14) 
Insulin glargine -1.76 (0.14) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% at week 52, logistic regression (LOCF): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 53.2%, 27.0% 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 37.1%, 22.5% 
Insulin glargine 30.9%, 13.5% 
Body Weight (kg), change from baseline at Week 52, ANCOVA, LOCF, LS Mean 
(SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.87 (0.24) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -1.33 (0.24) 
Insulin glargine 1.44 (0.24) 
Title: GBDD - the Impact of LY2189265 versus Insulin Glargine Both in Combination with Insulin Lispro 
for the Treatment to Target of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (AWARD-4: Assessment of Weekly 
AdministRation of LY2189265 in Diabetes – 4) 
Study design 
A 52-week, phase 3, open-label comparator (double blind with respect to 
dulaglutide dose assignment), parallel, active comparator, outpatient trial to assess 
the safety and efficacy of dulaglutide compared with insulin glargine both in 
combination with prandial insulin lispro (with or without metformin). Random 
treatment assignment was to 1 of 3 arms (1:1:1): dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week, 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week, or once-daily insulin glargine. 
The primary objective was to compare effects of of once-weekly dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
to that of insulin glargine (treated to target) on change in HbA1c from baseline at 52 
weeks in patients with T2DM, both in combination with prandial insulin lispro. 
Non-inferiority relative to insulin glargine was assessed using a non-inferiority 
margin of 0.4%. 
Non-inferiority 
Dulaglutide 1.5 
mg/week Dulaglutide 
0.75 mg/week  
Insulin glargine titrated 
to target + in each of 
the 3 treatment arms 
with prandial insulin 
lispro (with or without 
metformin) 
9 week lead-in period 
52 weeks open-label (double –blind with respect to dulaglutide dose), 4 week safety 
follow-up period 
Primary 
Secondary 
Number of subjects treated by treatment group:  
Randomized N=884, ITT=884 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week N=295 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week N=293 
Insulin glargine N=296 
Change in HbA1c from baseline at week 26 
Change from baseline at week 26 in: 
Primary objectives 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Duration of Run-in Period 
Duration of treatment 
Endpoints and definitions 
Database lock date 
Primary analysis description 
19 November 2012, re-opening and re-lock for optimization of dulaglutide ADA 
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with fixed effects for treatment, country and 
baseline HbA1c as a covariate for assessment of non-inferiority of dulaglutide 1.5 
mg/week compared to insulin glargine. Missing endpoints were imputed with LOCF. 
Fasting serum glucose (FSG) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% 
Body weight 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 79/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis population 
Primary efficacy results 
Secondary Results 
The analyses for the primary and key secondary objectives comprised ordered 
hypotheses using a gate-keeping strategy to control the family-wise type 1 error 
rate. Key secondary objectives compared HbA1c for dulaglutide (1.5 mg and 0.75 
mg) and insulin glargine for non-inferiority and superiority at 26 weeks 
ITT population N=884, dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week N=295, dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 
N=293,insulin glargine N=296 
Baseline 
HbA1c Mean (SD):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 8.46 
(1.08) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 8.40 
(1.03) 
Insulin glargine 8.53 (1.03) 
Week 26 
Change in HbA1c , LS mean difference (SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.64 (0.07) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -1.59 (0.07) 
Insulin glargine -1.41 (0.07) 
LS Mean Difference (nominal 95% CI) vs. 
insulin glargine: 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -0.22 (-0.38, -0.07) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week -0.17 (-0.33, -0.02) 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week vs. insulin glargine 
<0.001 for non-inferiority, 0.005 for 
superiority 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week vs. insulin glargine 
<0.001 for non-inferiority, 0.015 for 
superiority 
P value (multiplicity adjusted, 
1-sided): 
FPG (mmol/l), change from baseline at week 26, MMRM, LS mean (SE):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -0.27 (0.20) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 0.22 (0.20) 
Insulin glargine -1.58 (0.20) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% at week 26, logistic regression (LOCF): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 67.6%, 48.0% 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 69.0%, 43.0% 
Insulin glargine 56.8%, 37.5% 
Patients at target HbA1c <7% at week 26 without documented symptomatic 
hypoglycemia. 
Dulaglutide 1.5mg/week 20.7% 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 20.9% 
Insulin glargine 12.9% 
Patients at target HbA1c <7% at week 26 without nocturnal or severe 
hypoglycemia:  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 53.8% 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 54.5% 
Insulin glargine: 28.2% 
Body Weight (kg), change from baseline at Week 26, ANCOVA, LOCF, LS Mean 
(SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -0.87 (0.27) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 mg/week 0.18 (0.27) 
Insulin glargine 2.33 (0.27) 
In addition to the above, as part of their Day 121 responses the Applicant also submitted the findings of the 
recently completed of Study H9X-MC-GBDE (A Randomized, Open-Label, Parallel-Arm Study Comparing the 
Effect of Once-Weekly Dulaglutide with Once-Daily Liraglutide in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes). This was a 
Phase  3b,  multicenter,  randomised,  outpatient,  open-label,  parallel-arm,  32-week,  active  comparator 
noninferiority trial in adult T2DM with HbA1c ≥7.0% to ≤10% not optimally controlled with diet and exercise and 
a dose of metformin that was at least 1500 mg/day. The main aspects are shown below. 
Title: GBDE - A Randomized, Open-Label, Parallel-Arm Study Comparing the Effect of Once-Weekly 
Dulaglutide with Once-Daily Liraglutide in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes (AWARD-6: Assessment of 
Weekly AdministRation of LY2189265 in Diabetes-6) 
Study design 
A Phase 3b, multicenter, randomised, outpatient, open-label, parallel-arm, 32 
week, active comparator noninferiority trial with 3 study periods:  a screening 
period lasting 2 weeks; a treatment period lasting 26 weeks; and a safety follow-up 
period lasting 4 weeks. 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate that once weekly 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg was noninferior to once-daily liraglutide 1.8 mg as measured by 
change from baseline in HbA1c at 26 weeks in patients with T2DM who were taking 
concomitant metformin.  The noninferiority margin was 0.4%. 
Primary objectives 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 80/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Non-inferiority 
Background metformin 
therapy in all treatment 
groups (oral daily dose 
≥1500 mg/day) 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg, 
given once weekly as a 
subcutaneous injection. 
Liraglutide once daily as 
an injection, 0.6 mg for 
the first week, 1.2 mg 
for the second week, 
and 1.8 mg for Weeks 3 
through 26. 
Patients were male or nonpregnant females ≥18 years 
of age who had type 2 diabetes, with HbA1c ≥7.0% to ≤
10% (as performed at the central laboratory at Visit 1) 
and body mass index (BMI) ≤45 kg/m2,  not optimally 
controlled with diet and exercise and a dose of 
metformin that was at least 1500 mg/day and stable for 
at least 3 months prior to Visit 1 
Number of Patients:   
   Planned:  296 dulaglutide, 296 liraglutide 
   Randomised:  299 dulaglutide, 300 liraglutide 
   Treated (at least 1 dose):  299 dulaglutide, 300 
liraglutide 
   Completed:  277 dulaglutide, 282 liraglutide 
Duration of Run-in Period 
Duration of treatment 
Endpoints and definitions 
2 week lead-in period 
26 weeks open-label tretament period, 4 week safety follow-up period 
Primary 
Secondary 
Change in HbA1c from baseline at week 26 
Change from baseline at week 26 in: 
Fasting serum glucose (FSG) 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% 
Body weight 
Beta cell function 
Primary analysis description 
Analysis population 
Primary efficacy results 
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with fixed effects for treatment, country and 
baseline HbA1c as a covariate for assessment of non-inferiority of dulaglutide 1.5 
mg/week compared to liraglutide. Missing endpoints were imputed with MMRM. 
ITT population N=599, dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week N=299, liraglutide 1.8mg/day 
N=300 
Baseline 
HbA1c Mean (SD):  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 8.06 
(0.81) 
Liraglutide 1.8mg/day 8.05 
(1.03) 
Week 26 (ITT, LOCF) 
Change in HbA1c , LS mean difference (SE): 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -1.47 (0.05) 
Liraglutide 1.8mg/day -1.40 (0.05) 
LS Mean Difference (nominal 95% CI) vs. 
Liraglutide: 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week -0.06 (-0.19, +0.07) 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week vs. Liraglutide 
1.8mg/day  
<0.001 for non-inferiority, 0.17 for superiority 
P value (raw, no multiplicity 
adjusted, 1-sided): 
Secondary Results 
Patients at target HbA1c <7.0% or 6.5% at week 26: 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg/week 68.3%, 54.6% 
Liraglutide 1.8mg/day 67.9%, 50.9% 
Study H9X-MC-GBDC 
GBDC was the monotherapy study comparing the two dose of dulaglutide with metformin in treatment naïve 
(24.9%) and patients previously on an OAM (75.1%). The mean duration of diabetes was short, mean 2.6 years, 
which is expected for this population and with mean baseline HbA1c 7.6%.  
Patient disposition related to efficacy for the primary (26 weeks) and final (52 weeks) time points is shown in 
Table  16.  A  total  of  807  patients  were  randomized  and  included  in  the  ITT  population.  A  relatively  small 
percentage of patients discontinued from  the study  by  the time of primary analysis  at  26  weeks or  needed 
rescue therapy, with similar numbers between groups. This was also the case for the rest of the trial up to 52 
weeks.  
Table  16  Patient  Disposition  (Related  to  Ineffective  Therapy  versus  Other  Reasons),  Dulaglutide  versus 
Metformin, ITT, Study GBDC, as Monotherapy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 81/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
Abbreviations: CRF = case report form; ITT = intent-to-treat; n = number of patients in specified category; N = number of patients. Note: Dula_x.x refers to 
dulaglutide  x.x  mg  once  weekly. a  From  randomization  to  primary  time  point. b  Patients  required  additional  antihyperglycaemic  intervention  for  severe, 
persistent hyperglycemia. c Patients may appear in more than 1 category: rescued, discontinued from study drug and/or study. d Patients who discontinued the 
study drug or study for reasons suggestive of ineffective therapy: lack of efficacy, hyperglycemia, diabetes mellitus inadequate control, glycosylated hemoglobin 
increased,  or  blood  glucose increased. e  Patients  who  discontinued  the  study  drug  or  study  for  reasons  not  suggestive  of  ineffective  therapy. f  From 
randomization to final time point. g One patient in the dulaglutide 0.75-mg group and 1 patient in the metformin group are incorrectly indicated as discontinued 
from study drug (sponsor decision) due to inadvertent completion of the study drug discontinuation CRF; they simultaneously discontinued the study and study 
drug and are also included in the discontinued from study (other) group.  
The  majority  of  patients  assigned  to  metformin  received  a  2000-mg  dose  (191/225  [84.9%] patients  and 
178/212 [84.0%] patients at 26 and 52 weeks, respectively). At 26 weeks, the mean (SD) dose of metformin 
was 1902 (286) mg. Approximately 13% of patients received a metformin dose of 1500 mg and approximately 
2% of patients received a metformin dose <1500 mg at 26 and 52 weeks.  
From baseline to 26 weeks, significant LS mean (SE) reductions in HbA1c were observed in all treatment groups. 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg was superior to metformin (LS mean difference, -0.22 % [adjusted p=.002]). Dulaglutide 
0.75 mg was also superior to metformin (LS mean difference, -0.15 % [adjusted p=.020]). (Table 17). 
Table 17 Summary of Efficacy Measures at the Primary Time Point (26 Weeks), Dulaglutide versus Metformin, 
ITT, Study GBDC, as Monotherapy; Study GBDC 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 82/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Abbreviations:  Δ  =  change  from  baseline;  CI  =  confidence  interval;  FSG  =  fasting  serum  glucose  (central laboratory);  HbA1c  =  glycosylated  hemoglobin  A1c; 
HOMA2-%B = Homeostasis Model Assessment 2 of betacell function; ITT = intent-to-treat; LOCF = last observation carried forward; LS = least squares; n = number 
of patients meeting criterion; N = number of patients; NA = not applicable; PPG = postprandial glucose (selfmonitored). Note: Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide x.x mg 
once weekly. b Number of evaluable patients (that is, patients with LOCF data for the time point) was used as denominator for percent to target analyses of HbA1c. 
 †multiplicity adjusted 1-sided p-value <.025, for noninferiority,  
††multiplicity adjusted 1-sided p-value <.025, for superiority of dulaglutide compared to metformin, assessed only for HbA1c. 
 #p<.05,  
##p<.001 dulaglutide treatment group compared to metformin.  
+p<.05 dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared to dulaglutide 0.75 mg. 
The results showed a significant reduction in HbA1c with both dulaglutide doses compared to baseline (-0.78% 
and -0.71% respectively). These findings appear to be closer to the lower end of the range reported for the class 
and what was observed with dulaglutide in the remaining trials. The Applicant suggests that this could be due to 
two factors: the relatively low, at 7.6%, baseline HbA1c and that most patients were previously treated with an 
OAM. The short lead-in period of only 2 weeks might not have been long enough to ensure washout from prior 
OAM therapy which may have attenuated the treatment effect in all groups. Nevertheless, the results are still 
significant and clinically relevant, and not far from those previously reported with other agents in the class.  
The 25% of patients who were OAM naïve achieved substantially larger mean HbA1c reductions from baseline in 
all treatment groups compared to the 75% of patients previously treated with an OAM. This was the case despite 
lower baseline HbA1c values in the treatment naïve patients and can be explained by HbA1c values not having 
stabilized at the time of randomisation after discontinuation of previous OAMs in the pre-treated group. Overall, 
this finding is unlikely to have an impact on study results. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 83/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
With regard to the secondary endpoints, at 26 weeks (ITT, LOCF), a significantly greater percentage of patients 
had HbA1c decreased to <7.0% and ≤6.5% with dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared to metformin. The difference in 
changes from baseline in mean body weight for dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared to metformin was not significant. 
Least-square mean changes from baseline in mean body weight indicated a significantly greater decrease with 
metformin compared to dulaglutide 0.75 mg (p=0.003). Dulaglutide 1.5 mg also increased pancreatic ß-cell 
function (assessed by HOMA2-B%-model) to a greater extent than metformin. As indicated by the results of the 
patients reported outcome measures patients appeared to be satisfied with treatment in all treatment groups. 
At 52 weeks, the mean (SD) dose of metformin was 1889 (320) mg. At 52 weeks, significant LS mean (SE) 
reductions from baseline in HbA1c were again observed in all treatment groups. Dulaglutide 1.5 mg was superior 
to  metformin  (LS  mean  difference,  -0.19%  [adjusted  p=.024])  and  dulaglutide  0.75  mg  was  noninferior  to 
metformin based on the prespecified margin of 0.4% (LS mean difference, -0.04% [adjusted p<.001]). 
A secondary analysis of the primary and key secondary objectives in the ITT population using an MMRM model 
showed  again  that  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  was  superior  to  metformin  similar  to  the  primary  ANCOVA  (LOCF). 
Reductions  in  HbA1c  as  well  as  LS  mean  differences  in  HbA1c  reductions  with  dulaglutide  compared  to 
metformin  in  the  PP  (without  post-rescue  visits  and  without  rescued  patients)  and  completer  (without 
post-rescue  visits  and  without  rescued  patients)  populations  demonstrated  a  consistent  direction  of 
between-group changes in HbA1c compared to the ITT population at 26 and 52 weeks.  
Study H9X-MC-GBCF  
Study  GBCF  included  T2DM  patients  with  longer  duration  of  diabetes  7.1  (5.2)  and  mean  baseline  HbA1c 
8.1%(1.1) and compared the effect of dulaglutide as add-on to metformin with sitagliptin at 12 months (as well 
as placebo in 6 months). 
Patient disposition related to efficacy for the 26-week placebo-controlled period, the primary time point (52 
weeks), and the final time point (104 weeks) is presented in Table 18. A total of 1098 patients were randomized 
and  included  in  the  ITT  population:  dulaglutide  1.5  mg,  304;  dulaglutide  0.75  mg,  302;  placebo,  177;  and 
sitagliptin, 315. The overall discontinuation rate of approximately 40% for the whole duration of the study was 
high, but not unexpected for a 2 year study and comparable with that seen in similar previous trials of such 
duration in this class. The proportion of discontinued patients in the placebo/sitagliptin arm (46.3%) at end of 
the study was higher compared to other treatments (dulaglutide 1.5mg: 36.8%; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 39.1%; 
sitagliptin: 41.0%) due, for the most part, to a higher rate or hyperglycaemia in the control groups, which was 
even more evident in the placebo arm during the first 26 weeks. At the time of the primary analysis, at 12 
months, the discontinuation rate was similar between groups (although lower for the dulaglutide 0.75mg) and 
still not unreasonably high (at <25%) so that to raise concerns about the conduct and validity of the study. 
Table 18 Patient Disposition (Related to Ineffective Therapy versus Other Reasons), Dulaglutide versus Placebo 
or Sitagliptin, ITT, Study GBCF, in Combination with Metformin  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 84/172 
 
  
  
 
Abbreviations: ITT = intent-to-treat; n = number of patients in specified category; N = number of patients; NA = not applicable. Note: Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide x.x mg once 
weekly. a Patients who experienced ineffective therapy were not allowed to receive rescue therapy and were discontinued from the study. b Patients were not allowed to discontinue 
study  drug  and  remain  in  the  study. c  Patients  who  discontinued  the  study  for  reasons  suggestive  of  ineffective  therapy:  lack  of  efficacy, hyperglycaemia,  diabetes  mellitus 
inadequate control, glycosylated haemoglobin increased, or blood glucose increased. d Patients who discontinued the study for reasons not suggestive of ineffective therapy. e From 
randomization to primary time point. f From randomization to final time point 
Concomitant medication use was similar among the treatment groups up to 6, 12, and 24 months and was 
generally  compliant  with  the  protocol.  At  screening,  94.2%  of  patients  were  treated  with  at  least  one 
antidiabetic,  mostly  monotherapy  (65.9%).  The  most  common  was  metformin  (87%),  followed  by 
sulphonylureas (29%). At baseline, all randomized patients were taking metformin for the treatment of type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM). For most patients (98%), this was the only hyperglycaemic drug being used. The 
median dose of background metformin at 12 months was sufficiently high at 2000mg/day (mean 1941mg) and 
similar between treatment groups. For all treatment arms at 6, 12, and 24 months, the mean of injectable and 
oral treatment compliance was approximately 97% and was balanced across treatment groups. 
At the primary endpoint (52 weeks), significant LS mean (SE) reductions from baseline in HbA1c were observed 
in all treatment groups. Both dulaglutide 1.5 mg and 0.75 mg were superior to sitagliptin (LS mean difference, 
-0.71%  and  -0.47%  respectively  [adjusted  p<.001]).  Dulaglutide  was  also  superior  to  sitagliptin  (LS  mean 
difference, [adjusted p<.001]) (Table 19). 
Table 19 Summary of Efficacy Measures at the Primary Time Point (52 Weeks), Dulaglutide versus Sitagliptin, 
ITT, Study GBCF, in Combination with Metformin 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 85/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Abbreviations: Δ = change from baseline; CI = confidence interval; FPG = fasting plasma glucose (central); HbA1c = glycosylated hemoglobin A1c; HOMA2-%B = 
Homeostasis  Model  Assessment  2  of  beta-cell  function; ITT  =  intent-to-treat;  LOCF  =  last  observation  carried  forward;  LS  =  least  squares;  n  =  number  of 
patients meeting criterion; N = number of patients; NA = not applicable. Note: Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide x.x mg once weekly. b Number of evaluable patients (that 
is, patients with LOCF data for the time point) was used as denominator for percent to target analyses of HbA1c. d Self-monitoring blood glucose profiles, including 
postprandial glucose, were not assessed in Study GBCF  
††multiplicity adjusted 1-sided p-value <.025, for superiority of dulaglutide compared to sitagliptin, assessed only for HbA1c. 
 ##p<.001 dulaglutide treatment group compared to sitagliptin.  
+p<.05,  
++p<.001 dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared to dulaglutide 0.75 mg.  
For the secondary endpoints, at 52 weeks, 57.6% of dulaglutide 1.5 mg, 48.8% of dulaglutide 0.75 mg, and 
33.0%  of  sitagliptin-treated  patients  achieved the  HbA1c  target of  <7.0%.  The  percentage of  patients who 
achieved HbA1c <7.0% or ≤ 6.5% was significantly greater in both dulaglutide groups compared to sitagliptin 
(p<.001; both). Treatment with dulaglutide 1.5 mg or 0.75 mg resulted in significantly greater reductions from 
baseline in FPG compared to sitagliptin. For body weight a significant difference was seen for both dulaglutide 
doses compared to sitagliptin (p<.001; both). Least-squares mean HOMA2-%B was significantly increased from 
baseline in the dulaglutide 1.5-mg and 0.75-mg groups compared to sitagliptin (p<.001; both). 
At  104  weeks,  significant  LS  mean  (SE)  reductions  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  were  observed  in  all  treatment 
groups. Again both dulaglutide 1.5 mg and 0.75 mg were superior to sitagliptin (LS mean difference, -0.67% 
and -0.39% respectively [adjusted p<.001; both]). 
The secondary analyses using MMRM and in the PP population showed a similar magnitude of HbA1c reduction 
within and between treatments. In addition, due to previous concerns about the design of the study and the 
integration of the two stages of the trial a sensitivity analysis was carried out including only patients randomised 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 86/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
at Stage 2. This analysis which includes only patients randomised in stage 2 is the best confirmation of efficacy, 
as it is independent of the stage 1 dose selection. The results of this analysis were consistent with those of the 
primary analysis, demonstrating that the results are robust regardless of whether stage 1 patients are included 
or not.  
Study H9X-MC-GBDA 
Study GBDA assessed the effect of dulaglutide in a triple therapy regime, on top of metformin and pioglitazone, 
in  T2DM  patients  not  adequately  controlled  despite  double  OAM  treatment,  in  comparison  to  placebo  and 
exenatide BID. The study patients were representative of a T2DM population with a long duration of diabetes 
(8.8 [5.6] years) and several co-morbidities. Patient disposition related to efficacy for the primary (26 weeks) 
and final (52 weeks) time points is shown in Table 20. A total of 978 patients were randomized, and 976 were 
included in the ITT population: 279 to dulaglutide 1.5 mg, 280 to dulaglutide 0.75 mg, 141 to placebo, and 276 
to exenatide. The overall discontinuation rate was generally low during the trial; higher, as expected, for placebo 
but not to a rate that would raise concerns about the relevance of the results. Similarly, the number of rescued 
patients was small, especially among the dulaglutide 1.5mg treated patients.  
Table 20 Patient Disposition (Related to Ineffective Therapy versus Other Reasons), Dulaglutide versus Placebo 
or Exenatide, ITT, Study GBDA, in Combination with Metformin + TZD 
Abbreviations: ITT = intent-to-treat; n = number of patients in specified category; N = number of patients; NA = not applicable; TZD = thiazolidinedione. Note: Dula_x.x refers to 
dulaglutide  x.x  mg  once  weekly. a  From  randomization  to  primary  time  point. b  These  patients  required  additional  antihyperglycaemic  intervention  for  severe  persistent 
hyperglycemia. c Patients may appear in more than 1 category: rescued, discontinued from study drug and/or study. d Patients who discontinued the study drug or study for reasons 
suggestive of ineffective therapy: lack of efficacy, hyperglycemia, diabetes mellitus inadequate control, glycosylated hemoglobin increased, or blood glucose increased. e Patients 
who discontinue the study drug or study for reasons not suggestive of ineffective therapy. f From randomization to final time point.  
The treatment groups were similar with respect to demographic characteristics at baseline, with no statistically 
significant  differences  observed  for  any  characteristic.  Demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  in  the  PP 
population were similar to the ITT population. 
The vast majority of patients were on high background doses of pioglitazone and metformin which is reassuring 
for the assessment of dulaglutide incremental effects (as well as the safety of the triple combination at the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 87/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
higher end of the posology range). At baseline and Week 52, the majority of patients were receiving pioglitazone 
45 mg (baseline, 95.9%; Week 52, 92.4%) and metformin ≥2500 mg (baseline, 88.7%; Week 52, 85.5%; 
Table  GBDA.14.39).  86.2%  of  patients  at  baseline  and  82.9%  of  patients  at  Week  52  were  receiving  both 
pioglitazone 45 mg and metformin ≥2500 mg. 
Compliance to study treatments remained generally high for the duration of the study (but numerically higher at 
both visits in patients in each of the 2 dulaglutide treatment arms) suggesting appropriate levels for the active 
comparator. Actual exenatide dose levels were not recorded during the study but there were clear instructions 
for up-titration to the maximum  dose  and both efficacy  and tolerability data were similar to the findings of 
previous studies. Also the effect of exenatide on glycaemic parameters appears consistent with what is reported 
in its SmPC, suggesting appropriate therapeutic levels. 
At 26 weeks, significant LS mean (SE) reductions from baseline in HbA1c were observed in all treatment groups. 
Dulaglutide  1.5  mg  and  0.75  were  both  superior  to  placebo  (LS  mean  difference,  -1.05%  and  -0.84% 
respectively [adjusted p<.001; both]) and to exenatide (LS mean difference, -0.52% and -0.31% respectively 
[adjusted p<.001; both]) (Table 21). 
Table 21 Summary of Efficacy Measures at the Primary Time Point (26 Weeks), Dulaglutide versus Placebo or 
Exenatide, ITT, Study GBDA, in Combination with Metformin + TZD 
Abbreviations: Δ = change from baseline; CI = confidence interval; FSG = fasting serum glucose (central laboratory); HbA1c =  glycosylated hemoglobin A1c; HOMA2-%B = 
Homeostasis Model Assessment 2 of beta-cell function; ITT = intent-to-treat; LOCF = last observation carried forward; LS = least squares; n = number of patients meeting criterion; 
N = number of patients; NA = not applicable; PPG = postprandial glucose (self-monitored); TZD = thiazolidinedione. Note: Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide x.x mg once weekly. b 
Number of evaluable patients (that is, patients with LOCF data for the time point) was used as denominator for percent to target analyses of HbA1c. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 88/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
††multiplicity adjusted 1-sided p-value <.025, for superiority of dulaglutide compared to exenatide, assessed only for HbA1c.  
‡‡multiplicity adjusted 1-sided p-value <.001 for superiority of dulaglutide compared to placebo, assessed only for HbA1c.  
*p<.05, **p<.001 dulaglutide or exenatide treatment group compared to placebo.  
#p<.05, ##p<.001 dulaglutide treatment group compared to exenatide.  
+p<.05, ++p<.001 dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared to dulaglutide 0.75 mg.  
Figure 19 Plot of HbA1C (%) change from Baseline to 52 weeks without post rescue Visits; ANCOVA (LOCF) LS 
Mean +/- SE by Treatment Group. ITT Population; Study GBDA 
With regard to the secondary endpoints, at 26 weeks the percentages of patients who achieved HbA1c <7.0% 
and ≤6.5% were significantly greater in both dulaglutide groups compared to placebo and exenatide (p<.001; 
all).  Treatment  with  either  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  or  dulaglutide  0.75  mg  also  resulted  in  significantly  greater 
reductions  from  baseline  in  FSG  compared  to  placebo  and  exenatide  (p<.001;  all).  Dulaglutide  1.5  mg 
significantly reduced PPG from baseline compared to placebo (p<.001) and exenatide (p<.05)  
At 26 weeks, LS mean changes in body weight were: dulaglutide 1.5 mg, -1.30 kg; dulaglutide 0.75 mg, 0.20 
kg;  placebo,  1.24  kg,  and  exenatide,  -1.07  kg.  Significant  reductions  from  baseline  in  body  weight  were 
observed with dulaglutide 1.5 mg and exenatide compared to placebo (p<.001; both). There was no significant 
difference in body weight change between dulaglutide 1.5 mg and exenatide. Least-square mean HOMA2-%B 
was significantly increased from baseline with dulaglutide 1.5 mg and dulaglutide 0.75 mg compared to placebo 
(p<.001; both) and exenatide (dulaglutide 1.5 mg, p<.001; dulaglutide 0.75 mg, p<.05). 
At 52 weeks, significant LS mean (SE) reductions from baseline in HbA1c were observed in all treatment groups: 
dulaglutide  1.5  mg,  -1.36%  (0.08);  dulaglutide  0.75  mg,  -1.07%  (0.08);  and  exenatide  -0.80%  (0.08) 
(p<.001; all). Dulaglutide 1.5 mg and 0.75 mg were still superior to exenatide (LS mean difference, -0.56% and 
-0.27% respectively [adjusted p<.001; both]). 
The sensitivity analyses  using MMRM  and the analysis in the PP population revealed a similar magnitude of 
HbA1c, supporting the primary results. 
Study H9X-MC-GBDB 
Study GBDB assessed the incremental effects of dulaglutide when added to metformin and a sulphonylurea, in 
T2DM patients not adequately on the double OAM treatment, in comparison to basal insulin. The T2DM study 
population had a long history of diabetes (9.1 [6.0] years) and the majority of them had already been treated 
with more than one OAM.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 89/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Patient disposition related to efficacy for the primary (52 weeks) and final (78 weeks) time points is summarized 
in Table 22. A total of 810 patients were randomized, and 807 were included in the ITT population. The overall 
discontinuation rate during the whole trial was generally low, with few patients needing rescue. However, the 
number of study drug discontinuations was higher in the dulaglutide groups (up to 6.6% at 52 weeks and 8.8% 
at 78 weeks with dulaglutide 1.5%, compared to none in the insulin group), mostly due to adverse reactions. 
Table 22 Patient Disposition (Related to Ineffective Therapy versus Other Reasons), Dulaglutide versus Insulin 
Glargine, ITT, Study GBDB, in Combination with Metformin + SU 
Abbreviations: ITT = intent-to-treat; n = number of patients in specified category; N = number of patients; SU = sulphonylurea. Note: Dula_x.x refers to 
dulaglutide x.x mg once weekly. a From randomization to primary time point. b These patients required additional antihyperglycaemic intervention for severe 
persistent hyperglycemia. c Patients may appear in more than 1 category: rescued, discontinued from study drug, and/or study. d Patients who discontinued 
the study drug or study  for reasons suggestive of  ineffective therapy:  lack of efficacy, hyperglycemia, diabetes  mellitus  inadequate control,  glycosylated 
hemoglobin increased, or blood glucose increased. e Patients who discontinued the study drug or study for reasons not suggestive of ineffective therapy. f 
From randomization to final time point.  
Overall  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  in  the  ITT  population  were  comparable  between  arms.  At 
Screening, as per protocol, all 810 randomized patients were receiving at least 1 OAM; 130 patients (16.0%) 
were taking 1 OAM, 539 patients (66.5%) were taking 2 OAMs, and 141 patients (17.4%) were taking >2 OAMs; 
these were similar across the 3 arms. 
The vast majority of patients remained on high background doses of metformin and glimepiride for the whole 
study,  with  relatively  small  and  similarly  distributed  dose  adjustments  across  groups.  For  glimepiride,  at 
baseline the median dose for all arms was 6 mg/day and 1.5% or fewer in each arm were taking less than 4 mg 
at baseline. Post-baseline, on average, patients progressively adjusted doses downward; however, the median 
dose remained 6 mg at all timepoints in each of the 3 arms. For metformin, at baseline, the median dose was 
2550 mg for each arm, and 1.5% or fewer in each arm were taking less than 1500 mg at baseline. Post-baseline, 
few patients had dose adjustments; the means exhibited little fluctuation across the time points, and the median 
remained at 2550 mg at all timepoints in each of the 3 arms.  
Per the study protocol, patients randomized to insulin glargine were to start therapy with a single subcutaneous 
injection of 10 units per day; subsequent doses were to be adjusted according to a titration algorithm targeting 
a FPG of <5.6 mmol/L. Insulin glargine doses increased progressively throughout the study from up to Week 78. 
At Week 26, the mean (SD)  daily dose  (LOCF) of insulin glargine was 26.21 units (23.88) or 0.29 units/kg 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 90/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
(0.21).  At  Week  52,  the  mean  (SD)  daily  dose  (LOCF)  of  insulin  glargine  was  29.40  units  (25.85)  or  0.33 
units/kg (0.24). At Week 78, the mean (SD) daily dose (LOCF) of insulin glargine was 31.44 units (24.94) or 
0.35 units/kg (0.24).  
In the insulin glargine arm, at each time point, 21.7% to 27.0% met the <5.6 mmol/L target while 57% to 
61.5% of patients met the <6.7 mmol/L target. The proportion of patients meeting the fasting glucose targets 
(SMPG) within each arm was similar for all 3 time points (Weeks 26, 52, and 78), with a higher proportion in the 
insulin glargine arm than in the dulaglutide arms. Through Week 52 and Week 78,  mean (SD)  total overall 
compliance with study medication was 97.72% (10.95) and 97.69% (10.92), respectively. At both Week 52 and 
Week 78 compliance in the insulin glargine arm was higher but the differences were clinically negligible.  
In the primary analysis at 52 weeks, significant LS mean (SE) reductions from baseline in HbA1c were observed 
in all treatment groups (Table 23). Dulaglutide 1.5 mg was superior to insulin glargine (LS mean difference, 
-0.45%  [adjusted  p<.001]).  Dulaglutide  0.75  mg  was  noninferior  to  insulin  glargine  at  the  prespecified 
noninferiority margin of 0.4% (LS mean difference, -0.13% [adjusted p<.001]).  
Table  23  Summary of  Efficacy Measures  at the Primary  Time  Point (52 Weeks), Dulaglutide versus Insulin 
Glargine, ITT, Study GBDB, in Combination with Metformin + SU 
Abbreviations: Δ = change from baseline; CI = confidence interval; FSG = fasting serum glucose (central laboratory); HbA1c = glycosylated hemoglobin A1c; 
HOMA2-%B = Homeostasis Model Assessment 2 of betacell function; ITT = intent-to-treat; LOCF = last observation carried forward; LS = least squares; n = 
number  of patients  meeting  criterion;  N  =  number  of  patients;  NA  =  not  applicable;  PPG  =  postprandial  glucose  (selfmonitored); SU  =  sulphonylurea. Note: 
Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide x.x mg once weekly.  Number of evaluable patients (that is, patients with LOCF data for the time point) was used as denominator 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 91/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
for percent to target analyses of HbA1c. c FSG and PPG values in mmol/ .  
†multiplicity adjusted 1-sided p-value <.025, for noninferiority, ††multiplicity adjusted 1-sided p-value <.025, for superiority of dulaglutide 
compared to glargine, assessed only for HbA1c.  
#p<.05, ##p<.001 dulaglutide treatment group compared to glargine.  
+p<.05, ++p<.001 dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared to dulaglutide 0.75 mg. 
For the secondary endpoints, at 52 weeks fasting glucose showed a greater decrease with insulin glargine than 
with either dose of dulaglutide, not an unexpected finding as insulin dosing was based on glucose targets and 
was gradually up titrated throughout the treatment period. However, dulaglutide 1.5 mg significantly reduced 
PPG compared to insulin glargine. Also significantly greater percentages of dulaglutide treated patients achieved 
HbA1c ≤6.5% compared to insulin glargine-treated patients. Patients in the insulin glargine arm showed an 
increase in mean body weight; in contrast, significant reductions in body weight from baseline were seen with 
both dulaglutide doses.  Both dulaglutide 1.5 mg and dulaglutide 0.75 mg significantly reduced body weight 
from baseline compared to insulin glargine (p<.001) 
At 78 weeks, significant LS mean (SE) reductions from baseline in HbA1c were observed again in all treatment 
groups (p<.001; all). Dulaglutide 1.5 mg was superior to insulin glargine (LS mean difference, -0.31% [adjusted 
p<.001]). Dulaglutide 0.75 mg was noninferior to insulin glargine based on the prespecified margin of 0.4%. 
The MMRM and PP sensitivity analyses were consistent with the primary analysis findings.  
Study H9X-MC-GBDD 
Study GBDD examined the effect of dulaglutide when added to prandial insulin against a combination of basal 
and prandial insulin in T2DM who required intensive therapy due to poor glycaemic control; most patients were 
also treated with background metformin. The T2DM patients in this study had the longest history of diabetes and 
most advanced disease in the Phase 3 program, and had already been treated with insulin (the majority with 
basal insulin alone) with or without concomitant OAM.  
Patient disposition related to efficacy for the primary (26 weeks) and final (52 weeks) time points is shown in 
Table 24. A total of 884 patients were randomized and included in the ITT population. The rate of discontinuation 
was relatively low and similar between groups, while very few patients required rescue. 
Table 24 Patient Disposition (Related to Ineffective Therapy versus Other Reasons), Dulaglutide versus Insulin 
Glargine, ITT, Study GBDD, in Combination with Insulin Lispro ± Metformin 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 92/172 
 
  
  
 
  
 
Abbreviations: ITT =  intent-to-treat;  n =  number of patients in specified category;  N = number of patients. Note: Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide  x.x  mg once 
weekly. a From randomization to primary time point. b These patients required additional antihyperglycaemic intervention for severe persistent hyperglycemia. c 
Patients may appear in more than 1 category: rescued, discontinued from study drug and/or study. d Patients who discontinued the study drug or study for reasons 
suggestive of ineffective therapy: inadequate response, hyperglycemia, diabetes mellitus inadequate control, glycosylated hemoglobin increased, or blood glucose 
increased. e Patients who discontinue the study drug or study for reasons not suggestive of ineffective therapy. f From randomization to final time point.  
The 3 treatment groups were generally similar with respect to demographic and other patient characteristics at 
baseline, except for BMI  which  was  higher in the dulaglutide 0.75mg group. The mean daily insulin dose at 
baseline was 56 units. The use of OAMs was similar in the 3 treatment groups during this period. The majority 
of patients (75% to 77%) were using biguanides, in compliance with the study protocol; 17 (1.9%) patients 
(dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 5; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 6; insulin glargine: 6) reported using other medications, such as 
sulphonylureas, which was a protocol violation.  
During  the  treatment  period,  before  censoring  for  primary  analysis,  77%  of  patients  used  concomitant 
medications (biguanides 76.7%; short-term insulin use 2.5%). The use of these agents was balanced across 
treatment groups. The 3 treatment groups were  also similar with respect to metformin dose  adjustment or 
metformin discontinuation during the lead-in and treatment periods. 
In the insulin glargine group, at 26 weeks, the mean (SD) total daily insulin (TDI) dose was 132 ± 79 U, with 64 
± 40 U (49.8% of TDI) as insulin glargine and 68 ± 45 U as insulin lispro. In the dulaglutide 1.5-mg group, the 
mean (SD) insulin lispro dose was 93 ± 78 U; in the dulaglutide 0.75-mg group, the mean (SD) insulin lispro 
dose was 97 ± 62 U.  
The mean overall compliance rate was 95.2% at 26 weeks (dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 93.5%; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 
97.2%; insulin glargine: 94.8%) and 94.6% at 52 weeks (dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 92.9%; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 
96.7%;  insulin  glargine:  94.1%).  There  was  a  significant  difference  among  the  treatment  groups  at  both 
timepoints, due to higher compliance rate seen in the dulaglutide 0.75 mg group at 26 and 52 weeks.  
From baseline to 26 weeks, significant LS mean (SE) reductions in HbA1c were observed in all treatment groups 
(p<.001;  all).  Both  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  and  0.75  mg  were  superior to insulin  glargine  (LS  mean  difference, 
-0.22% [adjusted p=.005] and -0.17% [adjusted p=.015] respectively) (Table 25, Figure 20).   
Table  25  Summary of  Efficacy Measures  at  the  Primary Time Point  (26 Weeks), Dulaglutide versus Insulin 
Glargine, ITT, Study GBDD, in Combination with Insulin Lispro ± Metformin 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 93/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Abbreviations: Δ = change from baseline; CI = confidence interval; FSG = fasting serum glucose (central laboratory); HbA1c = glycosylated 
hemoglobin  A1c;  ITT  =  intent-to-treat;  LOCF  =  last  observation  carried forward;  LS  =  least  squares;  N  =  number  of  patients;  NA  =  not 
applicable;  PPG  =  postprandial  glucose  (selfmonitored). Note:  Dula_x.x  refers  to  dulaglutide  x.x  mg  once  weekly. a  Analysis  methods  are 
provided. b Number of evaluable patients (that is, patients with LOCF data for the time point) was used as denominator for  percent to target 
analyses of HbA1c. c FSG and PPG values in mmol/L provided.  
††multiplicity adjusted 1-sided p-value <.025, for superiority of dulaglutide compared to glargine, assessed only for HbA1c.  
#p<.05, ##p<.001 dulaglutide treatment group compared to glargine.  
+p<.05 dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared to dulaglutide 0.75 mg.  
Figure 20 LS mean (SE) HbA1c values at baseline, 26 weeks, and 52 weeks in the 3 treatment groups. 
With regard to the secondary endpoints, at 26 weeks, significantly greater percentages of patients achieved 
HbA1c <7.0% with both dulaglutide doses compared to insulin glargine (p<.05; both). Also significantly greater 
percentages of patients achieved HbA1c ≤6.5% with dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared to insulin glargine (p<.05). 
However, insulin glargine significantly reduced FSG from baseline compared to dulaglutide. Dulaglutide had a 
clear advantage in relation to body weight, although the effect was not as great as in the previous trials. Still, a 
small weight loss or even preventing further weight gain in such a population may be important.  
At 52 weeks, significant LS mean (SE) reductions from baseline in HbA1c were observed in all treatment groups 
(p<.001; all). Both dulaglutide 1.5 mg and 0.75 mg were superior to insulin glargine. In the insulin glargine 
group, at 52 weeks, the mean (SD) TDI was 133 ± 81 U, with 64 ± 39 U (50.0% of TDI) as insulin glargine and 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 94/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
69 ± 49 U as insulin lispro. In the dulaglutide 1.5-mg group, the mean (SD) insulin lispro dose was 88 ± 63 U; 
in the dulaglutide 0.75-mg group, the mean (SD) insulin lispro dose was 95 ± 68 U. 
Results from sensitivity analyses (including ITT population using the MMRM model) were consistent with the 
primary analysis.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
No specific efficacy studies were carried out in special populations.  
As discussed below, supportive studies H9X-MC-GBCJ and H9X-JE-GBCZ provided efficacy data in overweight 
patients and in a Japanese population respectively.  
A patient group of special interest are patients with renal failure but, as noted above, patients with significant 
disease were excluded from the main efficacy studies (this is further discussed in the Safety section below). A 
study in T2DM patients with moderate or severe chronic kidney disease  is currently ongoing with the results 
likely to become available by 2016.  
Supportive studies 
Efficacy data were also obtained from four Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies Study 
H9X-MC-GBCJ, Study H9X-MC-GBCK, Study H9X-JE-GBCZ, and Study H9X-MC-GBDN. Three of the Phase 2 
studies (Studies GBCJ, GBCK, and GBCZ) tested once weekly dulaglutide doses ranging from 0.1 to 3.0 mg for 
up  to 16  weeks,  and  the  fourth  Phase  2  study  (GBDN)  evaluated  the  effects  of  dulaglutide  1.5  mg 
and dulaglutide 0.75 mg on blood pressure and heart rate using ABPM for up to 26.  
Study H9X-MC-GBCJ  
Study GBCJ (see also Dose response studies above) was a multicenter, multiple titrated- and nontitrated-dose, 
placebo-controlled, parallel-group, double-blind study conducted in overweight and obese patients with T2DM, 
aged 18 years and older, who were taking any 2 OAMs. The study comprised a 2-week lead-in period, followed 
by a 16-week treatment period. Patients were randomized to 1 of 4 treatment groups: (1) dulaglutide 1.0 mg for 
4 weeks, then 2.0 mg for an additional 12 weeks (dulaglutide 1.0/2.0 mg) (2) dulaglutide 1.0 mg for 16 weeks 
(dulaglutide  1.0/1.0  mg)  (3)  dulaglutide  0.5  mg  for  4  weeks,  then  1.0  mg  for  an  additional  12  weeks 
(dulaglutide 0.5/1.0 mg) (4) placebo. In addition to study drug, patients continued prestudy OAMs throughout 
the study. The main purpose was to assess the response to dose titration. The primary efficacy measure was 
HbA1c change from baseline to 16 weeks. 
Significant  reductions  from  baseline  were  observed  in  HbA1c  (p<.001),  FPG  (p<.001),  and  body  weight 
(p<.001) in each dulaglutide treatment group compared to placebo after 16 weeks (Table 26). Treatment with 
dulaglutide resulted in significant dose-dependent effect on glycaemic control. As noted in section 3.3 above, a 
dulaglutide dose titration regime over 4 weeks did not reduce the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse 
events or result in an improvement in overall gastrointestinal tolerability. 
Table 26 Summary of Efficacy Measures, Change from Baseline to 16 Weeks, Dulaglutide versus Placebo, ITT, 
Study GBCJ, in Combination with 2 OAMs 
Abbreviations: Δ = change from baseline; Dula = dulaglutide; FPG = fasting plasma glucose (central laboratory); HbA1c = glycosylated hemoglobin 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 95/172 
 
  
  
 
A1c; ITT = intent-to-treat; LS = least square; N = number of patients treated; OAM = oral antihyperglycaemic medication; SE = standard error. a Patients 
on dulaglutide were administered either 1 mg for 16 weeks (1.0/1.0-mg group), or 1 of 2 titrated doses of dulaglutide (0.5 mg for 4 weeks then 1 mg for 
12 weeks [0.5/1.0-mg  group], or 1  mg for 4 weeks then 2  mg for 12 weeks [1.0/2.0-mg  group]). b Analysis  methods are provided  in FPG values in 
mmol/L are provided p<.001 dulaglutide treatment group compared to placebo.  
Study H9X-MC-GBCK 
Study GBCK was designed and implemented based on FDA guidance for Lilly to conduct a 12-week, Phase 2, 
monotherapy trial to confirm that the doses chosen in Study GBCF were the optimal doses to carry forward in 
other Phase 3 studies. It was a multicenter, parallel-arm, randomized, 12-week treatment period, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study that evaluated the dose-dependent safety and efficacy of dulaglutide administered as 
monotherapy in 167 patients with T2DM who were OAM-naïve or had discontinued metformin monotherapy.  
The study had 4 periods: a 2-week screening period, an 8-week lead-in period (with washout if previously on 
metformin), a 12-week treatment period, and a 4-week safety follow-up period. The primary objective was to 
demonstrate  a  dose-dependent  effect  of  once  weekly  dulaglutide  (1.5,  1.0,  0.5,  and  0.1  mg),  injected 
subcutaneously, on glycaemic control as measured by HbA1c at 12 weeks (change from baseline). The study 
GBCK  was  originally  designed  to  evaluate  3.0-,  1.0-,  0.5-,  and  0.1-mg  doses  of  dulaglutide.  However,  the 
dulaglutide  3.0-mg  dose  was  discontinued  and  replaced  with  a  dulaglutide  1.5-mg  dose  in  a  protocol 
amendment (following a recommendation from the DMC). 
The  mean  duration  of  diabetes  (3.9±3.7  years)  and  clinical  characteristics  (including  7.2±0.6%  HbA1c, 
32.1±4.8 kg/m2 BMI) were similar across treatment groups. At entry, 81.1% of patients were on metformin 
therapy and 18.9% of patients were treated with diet and exercise alone. There were no statistically significant 
differences between the dulaglutide and placebo treatment groups with respect to key characteristics.  
At the 12-week time point, significant dose-dependent reductions in HbA1c were observed across dulaglutide 
1.5 mg, 1.0 mg, and 0.5 mg doses (p<.001) (Table 27). Significant reductions in FPG from baseline were also 
demonstrated for the 1.5-, 1.0-, and 0.5-mg doses compared to placebo (p<.001; all). There was no significant 
difference in change from baseline to the 12-week final time point in body weight in any dulaglutide treatment 
group compared to placebo. This was mainly due to the large placebo response, demonstrated primarily by 2 
patients. 
Table 27 Summary of Efficacy Measures, Change from Baseline to 12 Weeks, Dulaglutide versus Placebo, ITT, 
Study GBCK, as Monotherapy 
Abbreviations: Δ = change from baseline; FPG = fasting plasma glucose (central laboratory); HbA1c = glycosylated hemoglobin A1c; ITT = intent-to-treat; 
LS = least squares; N = number of patients treated; SE = standard error. Note: Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide x.x mg once weekly. a Analysis methods are 
provided FPG values in mmol/L provided p<.001 dulaglutide treatment group compared to placebo.  
It was concluded that Study GBCK confirmed the dose-dependent effect of dulaglutide on HbA1c and daily blood 
glucose across the examined range and support the outcome of the dose-finding stage of Study GBCF.   
Study H9X-JE-GBCZ 
Study  GBCZ  was  a  Phase  2,  multicenter,  placebo-controlled,  randomized,  double-blind,  parallel  arm  study 
assessing  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  dulaglutide  as  monotherapy  in  Japanese  patients  with  T2DM  who  were 
OAM-naïve or had discontinued OAM monotherapy. A total of 145 patients were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 96/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
dulaglutide treatment groups (0.75, 0.5, or 0.25 mg) or placebo. The study consisted of 4 periods: a screening 
period, a lead-in period (including a washout period if needed based on previous treatment status), a 12-week 
treatment  period,  and  a  safety  follow-up  period.  The  primary  efficacy  measure  was  change  in  HbA1c  from 
baseline at 12 weeks. 
Two hundred and nineteen patients (219) entered the study; of these, 145 were randomized to treatment, and 
138 completed the 12-week treatment period. The mean±SD duration of diabetes was 4.62±4.10 years, mean 
HbA1c was 8.00%±0.64%. At entry, 27.6% of patients were on ≥1 antihyperglycaemic medication.  
The primary efficacy measure was change in HbA1c from baseline to the 12-week endpoint using MMRM for the 
full analysis set (FAS), excluding post rescue visits. A statistically significant reduction in LS means of change 
from baseline in HbA1c was demonstrated at the 12-week visit (Visit 7) for all doses as compared to placebo 
(p<0.001 in all groups) (Table 28). Similar results were seen in the analysis using MMRM for the per protocol set 
(PPS), and ANCOVA for the FAS based on the LOCF approach. Significant reductions from baseline in FPG were 
also demonstrated for the dulaglutide 0.75, 0.5-, and 0.25-mg doses compared to placebo (p<.05; all). At Week 
12,  no  significant  changes  in  body  weight  were  observed  with  dulaglutide  0.75  mg  or  0.5  mg  compared  to 
placebo. 
Table 28 Summary of Efficacy Measures, Change from Baseline to 12 Weeks, Dulaglutide versus Placebo, ITT, 
Study GBCZ, as Monotherapy 
Abbreviations:  Δ  =  change  from  baseline;  FPG  =  fasting  plasma  glucose  (central  laboratory);  HbA1c  = 
glycosylated hemoglobin  A1c;  ITT  =  intent-to-treat;  LS  =  least  square;  N  =  number  of  patients;  SE  =  standard 
error. Note: Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide x.x mg once weekly. a Analysis methods are provided  in FPG values in 
mmol/L provided in *p<.05, **p<.001 dulaglutide treatment group compared to placebo  
Study H9X-MC-GBDN 
Study  GBDN  (see  also  Secondary  pharmacology  above  and  Safety  section  below)  was  a  multicenter, 
randomized, double-blind, parallel-arm, 26-week treatment period, placebo-controlled study that evaluated the 
effects of dulaglutide 1.5 mg and dulaglutide 0.75 mg on blood pressure and heart rate using ABPM in a total of 
755 patients with T2DM on at least 1 OAM. The study included a 2-week screening and lead-in period, followed 
by  a  26-week  treatment  period,  and  a  4-week  safety  follow-up  period.  In  addition  to  study  drug,  patients 
continued  their  prestudy  OAM  regimen  throughout  the  course  of  the  study.  The  primary  objective  was  to 
evaluate the effects of dulaglutide on systolic blood pressure. HbA1c, fasting serum glucose (FSG), and weight 
were examined as secondary parameters.  
A  total  of  755  were  randomized  (1:1:1)  to  1  of  the  3  treatment  arms  and  received  at  least  1  dose  of 
protocol-specified  treatment;  630  (83.4%)  patients  completed  the  treatment  period  (26  weeks)  and  125 
(16.6%)  discontinued.  The  3  treatment  groups  were  generally  similar  with  respect  to  demographic 
characteristics at baseline. The mean age of the patients was 56.5 years, 52% were male, 80.5% were white. 
The mean HbA1c was 7.9%, and the mean duration of diabetes was 8.3 years (median 7.0 years). The duration 
of diabetes was significantly different among the treatment groups (shorter duration in the dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
patients; p=.029).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 97/172 
 
  
  
 
 
Dulaglutide  0.75  mg  and  1.5  mg  significantly  reduced  mean  HbA1c  levels  at  16  (-1.02%  and  -1.18%, 
respectively) and 26 (-0.88% and -1.02%, respectively) weeks compared with placebo (-0.03% at 16 weeks 
and -0.01% at 26 weeks) (Table 29). The differences between dulaglutide doses were not significant. Both doses 
of dulaglutide also significantly reduced FSG  as early as Week 4 (steady state) and this reduction persisted 
throughout the trial. Significant reductions from baseline in weight were observed for dulaglutide 1.5 mg and 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg compared to placebo (p<.001 and p<.05, respectively).  
Table  29 Summary of Secondary Measures, Change from Baseline to 26 Weeks, Dulaglutide versus Placebo, 
ITT, Study GBDN, in Combination with ≥1 OAM 
Abbreviations:  Δ  =  change  from  baseline;  FSG  =  fasting  serum  glucose  (central  laboratory);  HbA1c  =  glycosylated hemoglobin  A1c;  ITT  = 
intent-to-treat; LS = least squares; N = number of patients; OAM = oral antihyperglycaemic medication; SE = standard error. Note: Dula_x.x refers to 
dulaglutide x.x mg once weekly. a Analysis methods are provided in FSG values in mmol/L provided  *p<.05, **p<.001 dulaglutide treatment group 
compared to placebo  
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses AND meta-analysis) 
The Applicant provided also analyses of results across the Phase 3 studies conducted on the ITT population for 
the  same  efficacy  measures  reported  for  the  individual  studies:  changes  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  (ANCOVA 
[LOCF]); percentages of patients achieving HbA1c targets (logistic regression [LOCF]); changes from baseline in 
FBG, PPG, and beta-cell function (MMRM); and changes from baseline in weight (ANCOVA [LOCF]).  
Haemoglobin A1c 
Figure 21a shows the differences in changes from baseline in HbA1c for dulaglutide treatment relative to placebo 
or active comparator in the 5 Phase 3 studies at the 26-, 52-, 78, and 104-week time points.  
Table 30 presents the differences in changes from baseline in HbA1c with dulaglutide 1.5 mg and dulaglutide 
0.75 mg versus placebo and active comparators and percentage of patient achieving HbA1c targets in all 5 
Phase 3 studies. Across the 5 Phase 3 studies both dulaglutide doses led to a consistent improvement in HbA1c 
from 26 to 104 weeks. 
Figure 21a Differences in HbA1c LS mean change from baseline (%) relative to active comparator or placebo (± 
95% CI) at 26-, 52-, 78-, and 104- week time points, ITT, Studies GBDC, GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 98/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Abbreviations: AC = active comparator; BID = twice daily; CI = confidence interval; FPG = fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c = glycosylated 
hemoglobin A1c; ITT = intent-to-treat; LS = leastsquare; PL = placebo; QD = once daily. Note: Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide x.x mg once 
weekly. Note: Reference lines – dashed red reference lines are at 0.3% and 0.4%. Note: Active comparator doses: metformin, 1500 to 2000 mg 
QD, sitagliptin, 100 mg QD; exenatide, 10 mcg BID, insulin glargine, adjusted based on treat-to-target algorithm to maintain FPG <100 mg/dL 
(<5.6 mmol/L).  
Table  30  Mean  HbA1c  and  Percent  of  Patients  Achieving  Target  HbA1c  for  the  ITT  Population  (LOCF), 
H9X-MCGBDC, GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD 
HbA1c (%) 
LS Mean (SE) 
LS Mean (SE) 
Change from 
Baseline in HbA1c 
(%) 
LS Mean 
Differenc
e vs. 
Placebo 
LS Mean 
Difference 
vs.  
AC 
TRT (Week) 
GBDC  
Dula_1.5 (26)  
Dula_1.5 (52)  
Dula_0.75 (26)  
Dula_0.75 (52)  
Metformin (26)  
Metformin (52)  
GBCF  
Dula_1.5 (26)  
Dula_1.5 (52)  
Dula_1.5 (104)  
Dula_0.75 (26)  
Dula_0.75 (52)  
Dula_0.75(104)  
Sitagliptin (26)  
Sitagliptin (52)  
Sitagliptin (104)  
n 
265 
265 
265 
265 
265 
265  
302 
302 
302 
297 
297 
297 
312 
312 
312 
6.81 (0.06)  
6.89 (0.07)  
6.88 (0.06)  
7.03 (0.07)  
7.03 (0.06)  
7.08 (0.07)  
-0.78 (0.06)#  
-0.70 (0.07)# 
-0.71 (0.06)# 
-0.55 (0.07)  
-0.56 (0.06)  
-0.51 (0.07)  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
6.90 (0.05)  
-0.22(0.05)**,## 
-1.26  
7.02 (0.06)  
-1.10 (0.06)##  
7.13 (0.06)  
-0.99 (0.06)##  
NA  
NA  
7.11 (0.06)  
-1.01(.06)**,## 
-1.05  
7.26 (0.06)  
-0.87 (0.06)##  
7.41 (0.07)  
-0.71 (0.07)## 
NA  
NA  
7.52 (0.05)  
-0.61 (0.05)** 
–0.64  
7.73 (0.06)  
-0.39 (0.06)  
7.80 (0.06)  
-0.32 (0.06)  
NA  
NA  
NA  
Placebo (26)  
176  
8.16 (0.07)  
0.03 (0.07)  
GBDA  
Dula_1.5 (26)  
Dula_1.5 (52)  
271 
271 
6.47 (0.06)  
-1.51(0.06)**,## 
-1.05  
6.66 (0.08)  
-1.36 (0.08)##  
NA  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
-0.22  
-0.19  
-0.15  
-0.04  
NA 
NA  
-0.62  
-0.71  
-0.67  
-0.40  
-0.47  
-0.39  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
-0.52  
-0.56  
HbA1c <7.0% 
n (%) 
HbA1c ≤6.5% 
n (%) 
163 (61.5)#  
159 (60.0)#  
166 (62.6)#  
141 (53.2)  
142 (53.6)  
128 (48.3)  
122 (46.0)##  
112 (42.3)##  
106 (40.0)#  
92 (34.7)  
79 (29.8)  
75 (28.3)  
184 (60.9)**,## 
141 (46.7)**,## 
174 (57.6)##  
126 (41.7)##  
164 (54.3)##  
118 (39.1)##  
164 (55.2)**,## 
92 (31.0)**,##  
145 (48.8)##  
86 (29.0)##  
133 (44.8)##  
72 (24.2)##  
118 (37.8)**  
68 (21.8)* 
103 (33.0)  
97 (31.1)  
37 (21.0)  
60 (19.2)  
44 (14.1)  
22 (12.5)  
212 (78.2)**,## 
170 (62.7)**,## 
192 (70.9)##  
155 (57.2)##  
Page 99/172 
 
  
  
 
 
Dula_0.75 (26)  
Dula_0.75 (52)  
Exenatide (26)  
Exenatide (52)  
269 
269 
266 
266 
6.69 (0.06)  
-1.30(0.06)**,## 
-0.84  
6.95 (0.08)  
-1.07 (0.08)#  
7.00 (0.06)  
-0.99 (0.06)**  
NA  
-0.53  
7.23 (0.08)  
-0.80 (0.08)  
Placebo (26)  
119  
7.53 (0.08)  
-0.46 (0.08)  
GBDB 
Dula_1.5 (26)  
Dula_1.5 (52)  
Dula_1.5 (78)  
Dula_0.75 (26)  
Dula_0.75 (52)  
Dula_0.75 (78)  
Glargine (26)  
Glargine (52)  
Glargine (78)  
GBDD 
Dula_1.5 (26)  
Dula_1.5 (52)  
Dula_0.75 (26)  
Dula_0.75 (52)  
Glargine (26)  
263 
263 
263 
266 
267 
267 
258 
259 
259 
275 
275 
277 
277 
280 
6.97 (0.06)  
-1.16 (0.06)##  
7.05 (0.06)  
-1.08 (0.06)##  
7.23 (0.07)  
-0.90 (0.07)##  
7.24 (0.05)  
-0.89 (0.05)##  
7.37 (0.06)  
-0.76 (0.06)  
7.51 (0.07)  
-0.62 (0.07)  
7.48 (0.06)  
-0.65 (0.06)  
7.50 (0.06)  
-0.63 (0.06)  
7.54 (0.07)  
-0.59 (0.07)  
6.83 (0.07)  
-1.64 (0.07)# 
6.99 (0.08)  
-1.48 (0.08)#  
6.88 (0.07)  
-1.59 (0.07)#  
7.04 (0.08)  
-1.42 (0.08)#  
7.05 (0.07)  
-1.41 (0.07)  
Glargine (52)  
280  
7.23 (0.08)  
-1.23 (0.08)  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
-0.31  
-0.27  
NA  
NA  
NA  
-0.51 
-0.45  
-0.31  
-0.24  
-0.13  
-0.03  
NA  
NA  
NA  
-0.22  
-0.25 
-0.17  
-0.19  
NA  
NA  
177 (65.8)**,## 
143 (53.2)**,## 
159 (59.1)#  
139 (52.3)*  
131 (49.3)  
51 (42.9)  
130 (48.3)##  
101 (38.0)**  
92 (34.6)  
29 (24.4)  
153 (58.2)##  
97 (36.9)##  
140 (53.2)##  
71 (27.0)##  
129 (49.1)##  
74 (28.1)##  
122 (45.9)##  
74 (27.82)##  
99 (37.1) 
91 (34.1)  
84 (32.6)  
80 (30.9)  
79 (30.5)  
186 (67.6)#  
161 (58.6)#  
191 (69.0)#  
156 (56.3)  
159 (56.8)  
138 (49.3)  
60 (22.5)#  
59 (22.1)  
40 (15.5)  
35 (13.5)  
43 (16.6)  
132 (48.0)#  
101 (36.7)  
119 (43.0)  
96 (34.7)  
105 (37.5)  
85 (30.4)  
Abbreviations: AC = active comparator; HbA1c = glycosylated hemoglobin A1c; ITT = intent-to-treat; LOCF = last observation carried forward; 
LS = least squares; n = number of patients with at least one post-baseline measurement prior to rescue; NA = not applicable; SE = standard 
error; TRT = treatment. Note: Dula_x.x refers to dulaglutide x.x mg once weekly.  
*p<.05, **p<.001 dulaglutide or active comparator treatment group compared to placebo. #p<.05, ##p<.001 dulaglutide 
treatment group compared to active comparator.  
At the primary time point, treatment with dulaglutide 1.5 mg also resulted in significantly greater percentages 
of patients who achieved HbA1c <7.0% or ≤6.5% compared to placebo, as applicable, and/or active comparator 
in all 5 Phase 3 studies. Treatment with dulaglutide 0.75 mg also resulted in significantly greater percentages of 
patients  who  achieved  HbA1c  <7.0%  compared  to  placebo  and/or  active  comparator  in  4  of  the  5  Phase  3 
studies. 
Fasting and Postprandial Blood Glucose  
At the primary time point for each of the 5 Phase  3  studies, treatment with  dulaglutide 1.5 mg alone or  in 
combination with OAMs or prandial insulin resulted in significant reductions from baseline in FBG, as measured 
by the central laboratory (Figure  22). In 4  of  the  Phase  3 studies,  treatment with dulaglutide 0.75 mg also 
resulted  in  significant  reductions  in  FBG  from  baseline  to  the  primary  time  point.  The  improvement  in  FBG 
concentrations from baseline was observed through the final time point (52 to 104 weeks) for 4 of the 5 studies.  
Figure 22 Fasting blood glucose LS mean (SE) changes from baseline (mg/dL) at the primary time point (26 or 
52 weeks), ITT, Studies GBDC, GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 100/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Note:  Active  comparator  doses:  GBDC  metformin,  1500  to  2000  mg  QD;  GBCF  sitagliptin,  100  mg  QD;  GBDA  exenatide,  10  mcg BID, 
GBDB/GBDD insulin glargine, adjusted based on treat-to-target algorithm to maintain FPG <100 mg/dL (<5.6 mmol/L).  
At the primary time points for Studies GBDC, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD, treatment with dulaglutide alone or in 
combination with OAMs or prandial insulin reduced self-monitored mean PPG from baseline. Least-square mean 
changes from baseline ranged from -35.10 mg/dL (Study GBDB) to -76.14 mg/dL (Study GBDD) (-1.95 mmol/L 
to -4.23 mmol/L) for dulaglutide 1.5 mg and -29.52 mg/dL (Study GBDB) to -74.16 mg/dL (Study GBDD) (-1.64 
to -4.12 mmol/L) for dulaglutide 0.75 mg. Self-monitored PPG was not collected in Study GBCF. Reductions from 
baseline  in  PPG  at  the  primary  time  point  were  significant  for  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  and  dulaglutide  0.75  mg 
compared to  placebo  (Study  GBDA),  as  well  as  for  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  versus  exenatide  (Study  GBDA)  and 
versus insulin glargine (Studies GBDB and GBDD). 
Body Weight  
In the 5 Phase 3 studies, dulaglutide 1.5 mg was associated with a sustained weight reduction from baseline 
over the duration of the studies, including the longest study, GBCF (104-week final time point). In 3 of the 5 
Phase  3  studies,  dulaglutide  0.75  mg  also  showed  weight  reduction  from  baseline  over  the  duration  of  the 
studies. Due to concomitant antihyperglycaemic therapies, TZD and prandial insulin in particular, the range of 
weight  changes  varied  between  individual  studies  (Figure  23).  The  LS  mean  changes  in  body  weight  from 
baseline  to  primary  time  point  with  dulaglutide  1.5-mg  treatment  ranged  from  -0.87  kg  (Study  GBDD,  26 
weeks)  to  -3.03  kg  (Study  GBCF,  52  weeks).  The  LS  mean  changes  from  baseline  to  final  time  point  with 
dulaglutide 1.5-mg treatment ranged from -0.35 kg (Study GBDD, 52 weeks) to -2.88 kg (Study GBCF, 104 
weeks). 
Figure  23 Least-square mean (SE) changes from baseline in body weight (kg) at the primary and final time 
points, ITT, Studies GBDC, GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 101/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Study GBCF data are included at 26 weeks since the placebo comparison at this time point was a primary objective of the study. Note: 
Active comparator doses: GBDC metformin, 1500 to 2000 mg QD; GBCF sitagliptin, 100 mg QD; GBDA exenatide, 10 mcg BID; GBDB/GBDD 
insulin glargine, adjusted based on treat-to-target algorithm to maintain fasting plasma glucose <100 mg/dL (<5.6 mmol/L).  
The Applicant also examined the association  between  body weight change and the incidence  of nausea  and 
vomiting. At the primary time point of each Phase 3 study, mean reduction in body weight was seen in patients 
treated  with  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  irrespective  of  the  occurrence  of  nausea,  although  the  reduction  was 
numerically larger in the group with nausea (mean changes from baseline -1.0 to -3.9 kg with nausea, versus 
-0.2 to -2.9 kg without nausea). Similar results were observed with vomiting, and with nausea and/or vomiting. 
Subgroups 
Subgroup analyses were prespecified and performed on the ITT population with respect to change in HbA1c from 
baseline at the primary time point for each of the 5 Phase 3 studies. 2-way treatment-by-subgroup interactions 
were examined for the following baseline measurements: sex, age, ethnicity, race (white and non-white), body 
weight, body mass index, duration of diabetes, baseline HbA1c, renal status (estimated glomerular filtration rate 
[eGFR] calculated by Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration [CKD-EPI] <60 and ≥60 mL/min/1.73 
m2 and Urinary Albumin Creatinine Ratio [UACR] >300 and  ≤300 mg/g) and dulaglutide anti-drug antibody 
(ADA). For subgroup analyses, a treatment-by-subgroup interaction p-value <0.1 was considered significant. 
No significant treatment-by-subgroup interaction was found for sex, age (across the 5 main studies, 18.5% of 
patients were ≥65 years and 1.9% were  ≥75 years), ethnicity, BMI (6.1% of patients had BMI <25 kg/m2, 
30.5% had BMI ≥25 and <30 kg/m2, 33.6% had BMI ≥30 and <35 kg/m2, and 29.7% had BMI ≥35 kg/m2) or 
duration of diabetes (across the other 4 Phase 3 studies, 65.3% of patients had duration of diabetes <10 years 
and 34.7% had duration of diabetes ≥10 years. The distribution of patients with a duration of diabetes <10 
years and ≥10 years within each treatment group was similar in each study. Inclusion criteria for Study GBDC 
specified a duration of diabetes >3 months and ≤ 5 years and was not included in this analysis). Significant 
subgroup effects were found for race, weight, baseline HbA1c and renal status. 
Race. Analysis of the Phase 3 studies showed a significant treatment-by race interaction effect on the change 
from baseline in HbA1c in 2 of the 5 studies. In Studies GBDA and GBDD, reduction in HbA1c with dulaglutide 
was relatively consistent but varied somewhat more for placebo and exenatide groups (Study GBDA) and insulin 
glargine  (Study  GBDD)  between  white  and  non-white  patients.  The  between-group  differences  were 
directionally consistent with the overall population  and therefore  are  considered that they  do not  affect the 
interpretation of the overall study results.  
Weight. Across the 5 Phase 3 studies, 52.3% of patients weighed <90 kg and 47.7% weighed  ≥90 kg. The 
distribution of patients within each treatment group was similar in each study. Analysis of individual study data 
showed a significant treatment-by-weight interaction effect on change in HbA1c in 3 studies. In Studies GBDA 
and  GBDB,  mean  reduction  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  with  dulaglutide  was  relatively  consistent  but  varied 
somewhat more for patients in the comparator groups who were <90 kg versus ≥90 kg. In Study GBDD, for 
patients <90 kg, dulaglutide 0.75 mg resulted in a numerically greater mean reduction in HbA1c compared to 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg, whereas the reverse was observed in patients who weighed ≥90 kg; the differences were 
modest and not significant. Also in Study GBDD, insulin glargine resulted in numerically greater mean reductions 
in patients ≥90 kg. 
Baseline HbA1c. The primary analysis model in each of the Phase 3 studies adjusted for baseline HbA1c. Across 
the 5 Phase 3 studies, 67.0% of patients had baseline HbA1c <8.5%, and 32.8% of patients had baseline HbA1c 
≥8.5% with similar distribution within each treatment group in each study. The magnitude of treatment effects 
with dulaglutide 1.5 mg and dulaglutide 0.75 mg were greater for the subgroup with a higher baseline HbA1c 
value (≥8.5%) compared to the rest. Clinically meaningful reductions in HbA1c were observed with dulaglutide 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 102/172 
 
  
  
 
 
regardless of baseline HbA1c. In Studies GBCF and GBDA a significant treatment-by-baseline HbA1c interaction 
effect  on  change  in  HbA1c  was  observed,  based  on  a  nominal  alpha  level  of  0.1  (p<.001  and  p=.016, 
respectively).  In  Study  GBCF  (in  which  randomization  was  stratified  by  baseline  HbA1c),  the  significant 
treatment-by-baseline HbA1c interaction effect appeared to be driven by the sitagliptin group. In Study GBDA 
(in which randomization was again stratified by baseline HbA1c), the interaction effect appeared to be largely 
driven by the placebo group.  
Renal Status. Mean baseline eGFR (CKD-EPI) (<60 and ≥60 mL/min/1.73 m2) and albuminuria (UACR ≤300 and 
>300 mg/g) were fairly well balanced across treatment groups in the individual Phase 3 studies. There was no 
significant treatment-by-eGFR (CKD-EPI) interaction effect on the change in HbA1c from baseline in any of the 
5 studies. Analysis of individual study data from 4 of the 5 Phase 3 studies (Studies GBDC, GBCF, GBDB, and 
GBDD) did not show a significant treatment-by-renal status interaction (as measured by albuminuria) effect on 
the change in HbA1c from baseline. In Study GBDA, a significant treatment-by-renal status interaction effect as 
measured by albuminuria on change in HbA1c from baseline was observed (p=.039). However, there were very 
few patients with macroalbuminuria (UACR >300 mg/g; n=27 overall across all 4 treatment groups), which 
makes drawing conclusions difficult. 
In general, the subgroup analyses in the phase 3 trials did not identify any particular factor having a major 
impact on the efficacy of dulaglutide. Of note, parameters such as BMI or weight found in PK studies to be 
inversely associated with dulaglutide bioavailability do not appear to have a significant impact on efficacy.  
Not  unexpectedly,  patients  with  higher  baseline  HbA1c  values  benefited  more  from  dulaglutide  treatment 
although the real extent of this effect is difficult to determine, as the results are somewhat biased due to the 
inclusion of the monotherapy study GBDC which had some methodological limitations (short lead-in period) as 
discussed above. The subgroup observations in renal patients should be interpreted with caution as only few 
patients with eGFR<60 mL/min/1.73 m2 and/or UACR ≤300 mg/g) were included in the studies. 
Immunogenicity  
Across  the  5  Phase  3  studies,  21/1388  (1.5%)  of  patients  randomized  to  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  and  31/1385 
(2.2%) of patients randomized to dulaglutide 0.75 mg had treatment-emergent (TE) dulaglutide ADA. At Week 
26, the median (interquartile range [IQR]) changes from baseline in HbA1c were -0.6% (-1.8%, 0%; n=21) and 
-1.2% (-1.9%, -0.6%; n=1341) in patients with and without TE dulaglutide ADA, respectively, in the dulaglutide 
1.5-mg group. Figure 24 presents by-study box plots of changes from baseline in HbA1c for patients with or 
without TE dulaglutide ADA at the primary time point.  
Figure 24 Box-and-whisker plots of change from baseline in HbA1c (%) by treatment-emergent ADA status at 
primary  time  points  (using  LOCF),  ITT,  without  post-rescue  visits,  H9X-MCGBDC,  GBCF,  GBDA,  GBDB,  and 
GBDD. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 103/172 
 
  
  
 
The boxes are based on the 1st quartile (Q1), median (Q2), and the 3rd quartile (Q3). The whiskers to the left and right of the boxes extend to 
the smallest and largest data points ≤1.5 x interquartile range (Q3-Q1) from Q1 and Q3, respectively. Individual points beyond the whiskers are 
plotted. Primary time point is 26 weeks for Studies GBDA, GBDC, and GBDD and 52 weeks for Studies GBDB and GBCF 
Overall, the number of patients with treatment emergent dulaglutide ADA was very low. No obvious pattern was 
detected in the relationship between the presence of dulaglutide ADA and HbA1c change. In some cases the 
effect  of  dulaglutide  on  HbA1c  was  smaller  in  ADA  positive  patients  but  the  findings  are  inconsistent  and 
conclusions  are  difficult  to  draw.  Nevertheless,  the  overall  data  do  not  raise  any  particular  concerns. 
Immunogenicity is further discussed in the Safety section below       
Integrated efficacy analyses Dulaglutide 1.5 mg vs dulaglutide 0.75 mg 
Integrated  analyses  of  the  Phase  3  studies  were  also  performed  to  compare  the  dulaglutide  1.5  mg 
and dulaglutide  0.75  mg doses.  Figure  25  presents  MMRM  analyses  through  104  weeks  of  the change  from 
baseline in HbA1c over time in the integrated dulaglutide 1.5 mg and dulaglutide 0.75 mg treatment groups 
(ITT). Dulaglutide 1.5 mg significantly reduced HbA1c from baseline compared to dulaglutide 0.75 mg at all 
time points (p<.001). The LS mean differences (dulaglutide 1.5 mg minus dulaglutide 0.75 mg) at 26, 52, and 
104 weeks (only GBCF had actual data at this time point) were  -0.19%, -0.24%, and -0.30%, respectively. 
Similarly,  in  the  PP  without  rescued  patients  population  (supportive  analysis)  across  all  5 Phase  3  studies, 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg significantly reduced HbA1c from baseline compared to dulaglutide 0.75 mg at all time points 
(p<.001)  
Figure  25  Least-square  mean  HbA1c  (%)  (±  SE)  over  time,  MMRM  by  treatment  group  and  week,  ITT, 
integrated (Studies GBDC, GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 104/172 
 
  
  
 
 
Note: Dula_x.x refers to  dulaglutide x.x  mg once  weekly. Note:  Not all studies  included  in the 
integrated analysis had data at Week 39. *p<.001 between treatment p-value.  
Significantly greater percentages of ITT patients treated with dulaglutide 1.5 mg also achieved HbA1c <7.0% at 
all  time  points  (p≤.006;  all)  or  ≤6.5%  across  all  studies  beginning  at  13  weeks  (p<.001;  all)  compared  to 
dulaglutide  0.75  mg.  The  integrated  analysis  also  showed  that  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  resulted  in  significantly 
greater LS mean reductions in body weight from baseline compared to 0.75 mg at all time points (p≤.004). The 
LS mean differences (dulaglutide 1.5 mg minus dulaglutide 0.75 mg) were -0.92 kg, -0.97 kg, and -0.93 kg at 
Weeks 26, 52, and 104 (only Study GBCF had actual data at this time point), respectively. Similar results were 
observed in the PP without rescued patients’ population. 
Monotherapy indication 
As previously noted, as part of their responses to the Day 120 LoQ, the Applicant requested an amendment of 
the  initially  proposed  indications  to  include  a  monotherapy  indication  based  mainly  on  the  results  of  the 
monotherapy Study H9X-MC-GBDC [GBDC]. 
Study H9X-MC-GBDC (The Impact of LY2189265 versus Metformin on Glycemic Control in Early Type 2 Diabetes 
Mellitus [AWARD-3: Assessment  of  Weekly  AdministRation  of LY2189265  in Diabetes-3])  compared the  two 
doses  of  dulaglutide  (0.75mg  and  1.5mg  once  weekly)  with  metformin  in  patients  with  early  stage  type  2 
diabetes either treatment naïve (24.9%) or previously on an OAM (75.1%). At 26 weeks the results showed a 
significant  reduction  in  HbA1c  with  both  dulaglutide  doses  compared  to  baseline  (-0.71%  and  -0.78%  for 
0.75mg and 1.5mg respectively). 
In addition, the primary objective of the study was achieved showing that both dulaglutide doses were not only 
non-inferior (the primary objective) but also superior to metformin although by only a small margin. The results 
of all other secondary parameters were generally in the same direction, further supporting the primary analysis. 
A significant weight loss (mean -2.29kg with dulaglutide 1.5mg) was also observed. Dulaglutide effects were 
also to a large extent maintained throughout the extended period up to 52 weeks. A relatively small percentage 
of  patients  discontinued  from  the  study  by  the  time  of  the  primary  analysis  at  26  weeks  or  needed  rescue 
therapy, with similar numbers between groups. This was also the case for the rest of the trial up to 52 weeks. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 105/172 
 
  
  
 
The vast majority of patients also remained on  a sufficiently high dose  of metformin during the trial (at  26 
weeks, the mean dose of metformin was 1902 mg, and at 52 weeks, the mean dose was 1889 mg). 
The above results provide clear evidence that both dulaglutide doses 1.5mg and 0.75mg could perform at least 
as well as metformin in a monotherapy setting.  Therefore, from  an  efficacy  point of  view the  monotherapy 
indication for patients who cannot receive metformin is considered well supported and acceptable. 
The safety aspects are further discussed in the Safety section below.  
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
In support of this application and on the basis of PK and PD data from the clinical pharmacology studies, the 
applicant designed and implemented a clinical program to assess the efficacy and safety of dulaglutide in a 
wide-ranging  T2DM  population.  The  initial  step  involved  identification  of  a  dose  range  suitable  for  further 
development. Study GBCF (Stage 1), the principal dose-range finding study, identified, based on pre-specified 
efficacy/safety criteria, the 1.5mg dose as the optimal one, which together with a lower (0.75mg) dose were 
tested  in  the  main  trials.  Four  Phase  2,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  studies  provided 
supporting data, including a dose titration study, a monotherapy dose-response study, a study of dulaglutide in 
Japanese patients, and an ambulatory blood pressure monitoring study. 
The primary efficacy data come from the five pivotal long-term controlled Phase 3 trials which meet the main 
requirements for confirmatory studies in the investigation of medicinal products in the treatment of diabetes 
mellitus,  according  to  the  relevant  European  Guidelines,  as  they  were  designed  to  test  the  superiority  of 
dulaglutide  over  placebo,  alone  or  when  added  to  an  appropriate  background  therapy,  as  well  as  the 
non-inferiority to established active comparators. The studies were of sufficient duration to evaluate efficacy, 
and most included a substantial percentage of patients from Europe. The phase 3 program is generally in line 
with the previous CHMP Scientific Advice. 
All  trials  were  conducted as  randomized,  parallel-arm  trials  with  four  periods:  a  screening  period,  a  lead-in 
period,  a  treatment  period,  and  a  safety  follow-up  period.  Dulaglutide  was  compared  to  placebo  in  two 
double-blinded trials (GBCF and GBDA) and a range of active comparators (metformin, sitagliptin, exenatide and 
insulin glargine) in all five of them  (GBCF,  GBDC,  DBDA, GBDB and GBDD).  The insulin comparator studies 
(GBDB, GBDD) and the exenatide study (GBDA) were conducted as open label studies due to the complexity of 
blinding  to  insulin/exenatide  pen  device.  The  provided  justification  is  accepted.  Three  of  the  5  trials  had  a 
52-week treatment period, one had a 78-week treatment period, and another trial had a 104-week treatment 
period. Long-term safety and efficacy data were collected through the final time points (52, 78, or up to 104 
weeks). Dulaglutide was also tested, in a sequential approach, as monotherapy (study GBDC) or in combination 
with  other  treatments  as  double  (with  MET;  study  GBCF)  or  triple  therapy  (with  MET+SU,  study  GBDB; 
MET+TZD; study GBDA or MET+insulin lispro; study GBDD).  
In general, most trials were similar with previous ones with other products in this field and there are no major 
concerns  about  their  design  or  conduct.  The  inclusion  criteria  were  generally  appropriate  for  each  study, 
reflecting the expected characteristics and stage of diabetes of the target population who would be likely to 
receive  the  relevant  study  therapy.  Similarly,  the  exclusion  criteria  were  as  expected,  to  a  large  degree 
reflecting the contraindications of the study treatments such as metformin which was included in all trials either 
as background therapy or as comparator. This, however, resulted in exclusion of certain special groups such as 
patients with significant kidney disease or patients with advanced heart failure, which raised some concerns 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 106/172 
 
  
  
about  the  extrapolation  of  the  findings  in  these  groups.  These  limitations  are  reflected  in  the  product 
information.  
In order to assess the incremental benefits of dulaglutide in all trials appropriate measures were taken to ensure 
that the included patients were those not adequately controlled on previous treatment(s). In the add-on studies, 
baseline therapy was sufficiently up-titrated before randomizing patients and maintained at a constant dose 
throughout the study in line with the guideline recommendations. With the exception of the monotherapy study 
GBDC, patients’ background therapy was optimized with maximally tolerated/effective doses and then remained 
stable during a 9 to 12 week lead-in period (with a dose stabilization period of 6 to 8 weeks prior to baseline 
HbA1c measurement) which in most cases was also sufficient to ensure wash out of previous therapies. The 
recommended doses of background OAM therapy (metformin, glimepiride, pioglitazone) and active comparators 
(metformin, sitagliptin, exenatide) were appropriate and in line with European licenses.  
The active comparators are generally considered meaningful, although, in study GBCF a SU instead of sitagliptin 
may have been preferable. In the active controlled studies, almost all patients were treated with the target 
doses  of  the  active  comparators,  sufficient  to  elicit  their  full  glucose-lowering  potential,  thus  allowing  valid 
conclusions regarding non-inferiority or superiority. Although, in study GBDB the antihyperglycaemic effect of 
insulin glargine may have been increased due to a more aggressive up-titration regimen (mean doses were 
26.5, 29.8 and 32.1 Units at 26, 52, and 78 weeks, respectively) the risk of hypoglycaemia must always be 
adequately taken into account. In fact, titration of insulin glargine was performed according to a standard dosing 
algorithm (e.g. assessed in: Diabetes Care January 2006 vol. 29 no. 1, 1-8) targeting an FPG <5.6 mmol/L (100 
mg/dL),  which  reflects  clinical  practice  and  is,  from  an  efficacy  assessment  point  of  view,  acceptable.  In 
addition, insulin doses were up-titrated throughout the study and were comparable to those achieved in other 
studies investigating GLP-1-receptor agonists.   
The primary outcome measure in all 5 studies was HbA1c change from  baseline (at 26 or 52 weeks) which 
together with a range of secondary parameters provided a comprehensive assessment of the dulaglutide effects 
on glycaemic control. From an efficacy perspective the duration of the trials of up to 2 years was also sufficient 
to evaluate the longer term effects of the drug. It is noted that with the exception of Study GBCF, which used a 
noninferiority margin of 0.25% for HbA1c change from baseline, 0.4% was used in the remaining 4 trials that 
was not entirely in line with the CHMP guideline on diabetes (0.3% is recommended). Although this might have 
had an impact on sample size calculations, since superiority against the comparators was shown for dulaglutide 
1.5 mg in all studies, this point is of little relevance at this stage.  
Further to the evaluation of dulaglutide on glycaemic endpoints, its effect on BMI and body weight was also 
investigated. Pharmacodynamic endpoints were also examined in selected phase 3 studies to characterise the 
mechanism of action including beta-cell function and insulin secretion PD parameters. The patients’ perspective 
was also evaluated through the administration of seven patient-reported outcome questionnaires as secondary 
objectives in the protocols. The most clinically relevant questionnaire was treatment satisfaction measured in 
Studies GBDA and GBDC using the Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire status (DTSQs) and change 
(DTSQc). This focused on patients’ rating of salient aspects of a treatment experience, including ease of use, 
side effects and efficacy. Inclusion of PRO measures is in line with the CHMP reflection paper on Health related 
Quality of Life (2005) and is generally supported. 
Four Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies provided supporting data, including a dose 
titration  study,  a  monotherapy  dose-response  study,  a  study  of  dulaglutide  in  Japanese  patients,  and  an 
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) study. 
There  are,  however,  as  noted  above  some  gaps  in  the  available  evidence  with  regard  to  certain  treatment 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 107/172 
 
  
  
combinations that are possibly to be encountered in clinical practice; for example, there are no data on double 
therapy with dulaglutide in combination with SU or TZD as well as with DPP-4 inhibitors or SGLT2 inhibitors, and 
triple combination with SU+TZD or SU+insulin. Also in a non-traditional approach dulaglutide was tested as 
add-on therapy to prandial instead of basal insulin. This is discussed further below.   
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
In terms of the dulaglutide dose selection, the overall evidence, from PK/PD analyses and data from the dose 
ranging part of Study GBCF indicated a dose dependent effect in terms of both efficacy and tolerability/safety 
and the 1.5mg was identified as the optimal one for clinical use. Doses higher than 1.5 mg were shown to offer 
very  little  additional  benefit  while  associated  with  poorer  tolerability  and  a  potentially  higher  risk  of 
complications. In addition to 1.5mg, the 0.75mg dose was also tested across the whole phase 3 program mainly 
as a back-up in case that serious tolerability/safety concerns arose with the higher dose.  
The five main studies included patients across the whole range of T2DM population with characteristics that 
appear to represent well the intended target population. The mean duration of diabetes ranged from 2.6 years 
to 12.7 years, mean baseline HbA1c ranged from 7.6% to 8.5% (from treatment naïve patients to those treated 
with combination with 1 or 2 OAMs, or insulin) and mean BMI from 31.2 kg/m2 to 33.3 kg/m2. There was also 
an approximately equal percentage of men and women and the mean baseline age was 56.2 years with 18.5% 
of patients at least 65 years or older. However,  in  the whole Phase  3 program, there were only 84  (1.8%) 
patients 75 years or older. In the phase 2 studies only two age groups were differentiated: <65 versus  ≥65 
years of age. Overall, in the Phase 2 and 3 studies there were in total 115 (1.9%) patients ≥75yrs and only three 
>85yrs. The range of the study populations across the spectrum of T2DM ensured that patients with common 
co-morbidities such as dyslipidaemia and hypertension were included, but as noted before, certain groups were 
excluded, including patients with significant renal or hepatic disease or advanced heart failure. 
In the four of the Phase 3 Studies (GBDC, GBDA, GBDB, and GBDD) between 80% and 90% of the randomized 
patients completed the studies through the final 52 to 78 week time points; the percentage of patients who 
discontinuation the study drug at the time of the primary analyses did not exceed 16% in any of these studies. 
The number of patients needing rescue therapy was generally small, with less that 4% among those treated with 
dulaglutide 1.5mg. This may also be due to the fact that in most cases patients remained on high doses of 
background OAMs during the trials. In the longest study (GBCF) through the 104-week final time point 63.2%, 
60.9%, and 59.0% of patients treated with dulaglutide 1.5 mg, dulaglutide 0.75 mg, and sitagliptin respectively 
completed the study. Most discontinuations in the studies were related to adverse effects rather than lack of 
efficacy.  
Generally although the rates of discontinuations were similar between the arms and therefore not expected that 
the  use  of  LOCF  in  the  primary  analyses  may  have  benefited  one  treatment  more  than  another,  more 
conservative  sensitivity  analyses  were  requested  for  all  studies  to  provide  reassurance  that  the  handling  of 
missing data does not affect the conclusions. Sensitivity analyses which included BOCF and multiple imputation 
were provided and these confirmed the robustness of the results. 
At  the  time  of  the  primary  analysis  in  all  five  main  trials,  both  dulaglutide  doses  showed  a  significant  and 
clinically relevant mean reduction in HbA1c from baseline. For dulaglutide 1.5mg the mean changes ranged from 
-0.78% (Study GBDC, 26 weeks) to -1.64% (Study GBDD, 26 weeks). For dulaglutide 0.75mg treatment the 
mean changes from baseline ranged from -0.71% (Study GBDC, 26 weeks) to -1.59% (Study GBDD, 26 weeks). 
Both  dulaglutide  doses  were  superior  to  placebo.  Furthermore,  although  all  active  controlled  trials  were 
designed as non-inferiority studies, at the time of the primary analysis in all five dulaglutide 1.5mg was shown 
to be superior to the active comparator at a statistically significant level although only by a small margin in some 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 108/172 
 
  
  
cases. The differences were maintained to a large extent, throughout the extended treatment periods up to the 
final time points of the studies. Dulaglutide 0.75 mg was superior to the active comparators in four of the five 
phase 3 studies and non-inferior to insulin glargine in one study. 
In the monotherapy study GBDC the dulaglutide effect on HbA1c was generally modest and dulaglutide 1.5mg 
was superior to metformin in HbA1c change from baseline by only a small margin (mean difference  -0.22%, 
95% CI [-0.36%, -0.08%]) which was attributed to the relatively low HbA1c, at 7.6%, at baseline and the short 
lead-in  period  that  might  not  be  sufficient  to  ensure  complete  washout  from  previous  OAMs.  Nevertheless, 
dulaglutide efficacy was much greater in the remaining studies. In study GBCF dulaglutide 1.5mg (as add-on to 
metformin)  was  better  in  reducing  HbA1c  from  baseline  than  sitagliptin  at  12  months  by  -0.71%  [-0.87%, 
-0.55%],  and  in  study  GBDA  it  was  again  shown  (as  add-on  to  metformin  plus  pioglitazone)  superior  to 
exenatide twice daily by -0.52% [-0.66%, -0.39%]. In the GBDB trial dulaglutide 1.5mg in combination with 
metformin and glimepiride was superior to insulin glargine by -0.45% [-0.60%, -0.29%] as was also in study 
GBDD in combination with insulin lispro (with or without metformin) against the insulin glargine+inslulin lispro 
regimen by -0.22% [-0.38%, -0.07%]. 
In all main studies dulaglutide 1.5mg also resulted  in significantly greater percentages of patients reaching 
HbA1c <7.0% or ≤6.5% than the comparators. In study GBDD, the target threshold of <7% was attained with 
fewer patients experiencing episodes of (severe) hypoglycaemia and/or weight gain in both dulaglutide dose 
treated  patients  (GBDD).  This  is  an  important  finding  since  hypoglycaemia  is  often  prohibitive  for  tight 
glycaemic control with insulin.   
Patients  treated  with  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  alone  or  in  combination  with  OAMs  or  prandial  insulin  also  had, 
significant  in  most  cases,  reductions  in  fasting  blood  glucose  with  mean  changes  from  -4.86  mg/dL  (Study 
GBDD)  to  -42.84  mg/dL  (Study  GBCF),  as  well  as  in  self-monitored  mean  postprandial  glucose,  from 
-35.10mg/dL (Study GBDB) to -76.14 mg/dL (Study GBDD) (-1.95 mmol/L to -4.23 mmol/L).  In addition, a 
significant effect on body weight was also observed in most trials  with mean changes from baseline to primary 
time point ranging from -0.87kg (Study GBDD, 26 weeks) to -3.03 kg (Study GBCF, 52 weeks). The clinical 
relevance of the observed effect size with the 1.5 mg dose is uncertain but weight loss was generally consistent 
with that observed with marketed GLP-1 receptor agonists (e. g. mean weight change from baseline exenatide 
-1.5 to -2.9 kg, liraglutide -0.23 kg to -3.5 kg). There was no indication that weight loss might be associated with 
nausea or vomiting. Of importance, most the observed effects were shown to persist until the final points of the 
trials. Also, reassuringly, the sensitivity analyses confirmed the findings of the primary analysis. 
Consistent improvements in treatment satisfaction (as assessed with Patient-reported outcome questionnaire 
[PRO]) from studies GBDA and GBDC indicate a positive effect of dulaglutide treatment. Where subjects were 
able to distinguish between treatments (GBDA, open-label compared to exenatide BID), dulaglutide improved 
treatment satisfaction to a greater extent than exenatide BID. Results from PRO measures suggest that patients 
on average considered the improvements in clinical parameters of greater significance than the inconvenience 
of an injection. The high treatment compliance throughout the studies may also be due to patient satisfaction. 
In general, the subgroup analyses in the phase 3 trials did not identify any particular factor having a major 
impact on the efficacy of dulaglutide. Parameters such as BMI or weight found in PK studies to be inversely 
associated with dulaglutide bioavailability  were not seen to have a significant impact on efficacy. Treatment 
emergent  dulaglutide  ADA  were  detected  in  only  a  small  number  of  patients.  In  some  cases  the  effect  of 
dulaglutide on HbA1c was smaller in ADA positive patients but the findings are inconsistent and conclusions are 
difficult to draw, but generally the data do not raise any particular concerns. 
Overall, dulaglutide showed a consistent and significant effect on the primary and secondary parameters across 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 109/172 
 
  
  
all main clinical trials, further supported by the findings of the Phase 2 studies. However, there are some issues 
that require further consideration. 
Although dulaglutide, as discussed above, was studied under various conditions, there are some gaps in the 
available evidence with regard to certain treatment combinations that can be encountered in clinical practice; for 
example, there are no data on double therapy in combination with a sulphonylurea or a thiazolidinedione alone 
or triple combination with sulphonylurea plus thiazolidinedione or insulin. Although these may not be first line 
combinations, they may be relevant to certain patients. Nevertheless, based on the available efficacy data and 
the consistency of the effects seen across the whole program, there is no reason to believe that dulaglutide in 
combination with a sulphonylurea or a thiazolidinedione alone or both, or in any similar combination will be less 
efficacious  than  in  the  regimens  tested  in  the  clinical  trials.  It  should  be  noted  that  a  study  examining  the 
dulaglutide+sulphonylurea combination is ongoing. There are also no data for other combinations such as with 
DPP-4 inhibitors or SGLT2 inhibitors. 
A more challenging issue is the lack of efficacy data in combination with basal insulin. As previously noted, in a 
non-traditional  approach  study  GBDD  examined  dulaglutide  together  with  prandial  insulin  (with  or  without 
metformin) against a basal+prandial insulin regimen, investigating the place of dulaglutide as basal treatment 
for glucose control. Again, taking into account the totality of available efficacy data and the fact that, from a 
clinical perspective, dulaglutide does not appear to be considerably different or less efficacious than other GLP-1 
agonists  so  far,  there  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  dulaglutide  would  not  perform  equally  well  when  given 
together with insulin glargine. In fact the Applicant has indicated that a Phase 3b trial evaluating the glycaemic 
effects (change in HbA1c) of dulaglutide 1.5 mg once weekly versus placebo used in combination with insulin 
glargine over 28 weeks, is planned. Safety aspects i.e. if there are issues when dulaglutide is administered with 
sulphonylureas or insulin are discussed in the Safety section below. 
With regard to the relative efficacy of the two doses it is agreed, as the Applicant suggests, that 1.5mg was 
shown to be slightly more efficacious than the lower dose. However, 0.75 mg also achieved clinically relevant 
reductions in HbA1c from  -0.71% to  -1.59% with consistent results on  the  secondary  glycaemic endpoints. 
Although the difference in body weight reduction between the two doses was about 1 kg, the overall effect on 
weight was modest, even with the 1.5 mg dose and is of uncertain clinical relevance.  Conversely, 0.75mg seems 
to have a slightly better tolerability and safety profile.  
Study GBCJ showed no clear benefit of regimes involving dose titration compared to starting and continuing 
therapy with the same dose and a model estimating the effect of a dose-titrating regime on nausea and vomiting 
suggested that starting with a lower dose may be temporarily better tolerated but can delay the development of 
tolerance. The argument against the use of step-wise titration appears reasonable although the data are limited.  
The CHMP requested from the applicant to make the 0.75 mg strength available to be used as follows:  The 
0.75mg  is  now  suggested  as  the  recommended  posology  for  the  monotherapy  indication.  Moreover,  for 
dulaglutide as add-on therapy the recommended dose is 1.5mg/week with the 0.75mg suggested as starting 
dose for potentially vulnerable group of patients.  
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of dulaglutide was evaluated in five Phase 3 studies of 52 to 104 weeksboth as monotherapy and in 
combination with different oral glucose lowering agents and insulin lispro in a wide-ranging population with type 
2 diabetes. A sixth phase 3 study, considered supportive, was submitted during the procedure. Dulaglutide both 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 110/172 
 
  
  
 
0.75mg and 1.5mg had a consistent and significant effect on the primary endpoint of HbA1c change from 
baseline and the secondary parameters, and showed superior efficacy to placebo and active comparators in the 
trials. Although there are some methodological limitations, the studies have provided sufficient data to support 
the efficacy of dulaglutide under the conditions that it was examined. 
Remaining uncertainties and gaps in the available evidence, including the lack of robust data in patients older 
than 75 years and in certain special groups, are generally reflected in the product information. Furthermore, the 
absence of data on specific oral combinations and with basal insulin raised some concerns about the 
generalizability of the findings to support the proposed broad indication. Nevertheless, CHMP concluded that the 
totality of evidence does not give reasons to suspect a reduced efficacy of dulaglutide as part of such regimens. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The safety review includes data from the whole dulaglutide clinical program with 30 completed clinical studies 
(21 clinical pharmacology and 9 Phase 2 and 3 clinical studies) and up to 104 weeks of patient exposure to 
treatment  (Table  1  above).  A  total  of  6005  patients  with  T2DM,  of  whom  4006  received  at  least  1  dose  of 
dulaglutide,  comprise  the  principal  safety  population  from  the  Phase  2  and  3  clinical  studies.  Clinical 
pharmacology  studies  contributed  also  680  dulaglutide-treated  healthy  subjects,  patients  with  T2DM,  and 
subjects in special populations (such as renally or hepatically impaired patients) to safety analyses. 
All Phase 3 studies and the Phase 2 studies, except one study (GBCJ), included a 30-day safety follow-up period 
after the last week of scheduled dosing (or early discontinuation visit during the dosing period) in the study 
protocol. These assessments permitted evaluation of patients after the last visit of the treatment period. An 
important  protocol  element  in  one  of  the  completed  Phase  2  studies  (GBCJ)  is  that  patients  who  were 
inadvertently enrolled were required to stop study drug but were permitted to remain in the study. In addition, 
in four of the completed Phase 3 studies (GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, and GBDD), patients may have continued in the 
study following the initiation of an additional or alternative antihyperglycaemic medication. The other Phase 2 
and 3 studies, including Study GBCF, did not have this element in the study design.  
Safety data are primarily reported for the Safety Population: all patients who were randomly assigned to study 
treatment and received at least 1 dose of assigned study treatment. For some special topics, all patients who 
entered a clinical study (whether or not they were later randomized to receive study treatment) were included 
in analyses that describe the population prior to treatment. Across the Phase 2 and 3 studies, several sites were 
terminated due to GCP noncompliance. In most instances, data for all patients were included in safety analyses 
for the individual studies. For two sites (Site 504 in Study GBDB and Site 100 in  Study GBDD), there were 
significant data integrity issues and thus patients enrolled at these sites were excluded from summaries and 
listings presented in this document. 
Dulaglutide Safety Analyses 
The primary purpose of the safety analyses is to characterize the safety of dulaglutide by identifying drug and 
dose effects with two specific data sets. The primary safety analyses assessed the drug effects using Analysis 
Set 1 and dose effects using Analysis Set 3 (Figure 26).  
Analysis  Set  1  (AS1): Integrated comparisons of both dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg doses (combined) 
versus  placebo  for  all  studies  that  had  a  treatment  duration  ≥26  weeks.  Two  subsets  of  AS1  provide 
comparisons of each dulaglutide dose versus placebo: 
- 
- 
Analysis Set 1a (AS1a): integrated comparison of dulaglutide 1.5 mg versus placebo. 
Analysis Set 1b (AS1b): integrated comparison of dulaglutide 0.75 mg versus placebo. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 111/172 
 
  
  
 
Analysis Set 3 (AS3): Integrated comparisons of dose effects for dulaglutide 0.75 mg versus 1.5 mg for all 
clinical studies (placebo- or comparator-controlled) that included both doses and had a treatment duration ≥26 
weeks, covering the full treatment period (26 to 104 weeks). This analysis set provides long-term exposure data 
for dulaglutide for the 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg doses individually and combined (all dulaglutide). 
Figure 26 Diagram of primary analysis datasets for integrated safety analyses of completed studies 
Six additional supporting analysis sets (AS2, AS4, AS5, AS6, including subgroups of AS1 [AS1a and AS1b]) were 
carried  out  to  compare  dulaglutide  with  placebo,  compare  dulaglutide  0.75  mg  and  1.5  mg  doses,  and 
characterize all dulaglutide doses in Phase 2 and 3 studies (0.1 to 3.0 mg) using data integrated at distinct time 
points  (Figure  27).  An  additional  analysis  set  (AS7)  provides  limited  comparisons  of  dulaglutide  and  all 
comparators (placebo and active comparators) 
Figure 27 Diagram of secondary analysis datasets for integrated safety analyses of completed studies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 112/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Generally, the way that data pools were constructed and the selection of the pools for the main safety evaluation 
have  some  limitations.  It  is  agreed  that  the  placebo-controlled  studies  (AS1)  provide  a  good  picture  of  the 
(short-term) safety profile of dulaglutide. On the other hand, for antidiabetic drugs rare but potentially serious 
long-term  effects  may  be  even  more  relevant.  These  effects  may  only  be  identified  if  a  suitable  control  is 
present. Hence, data set AS3 using dulaglutide 0.75 mg as the control for dulaglutide 1.5 mg is considered 
rather inappropriate since, depending on the position and slope of the dose-effect curve, the difference between 
doses is expected to be much smaller in many cases than the possible difference between dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
and another comparator. Hence, the sensitivity of detection of dulaglutide specific AEs is markedly diminished 
with this approach. 
Patient exposure 
A total of 6005 unique individuals received study drug in the 9 completed Phase 2 and 3 studies. Of those, 4006 
received dulaglutide for 3531 patient-years, 703 received placebo for 284 patient-years, and 1541 received 
active comparator for 1722 patient-years. Two studies (GBCF and GBDA) included a treatment arm that started 
patients on placebo and after 26 weeks switched them to sitagliptin or dulaglutide.  
Table 31 Summary of Exposure to Dulaglutide and Comparators in Completed Phase 2 and 3 Studies (Safety 
Population, Studies GBCF, GBCJ, GBCK, GBCZ, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN) 
Exposure to Study Drug *a  Time on Observation 
Patients-Years 
6194.0 
3983.7 
60.3 
1932.8 
1898.1 
34.6 
55.2 
1900.6 
Patients-Years 
5536.6 
3531.2 
42.9 
1724.2 
1695.1 
29.1 
47.2 
1689.1 
N 
6005 
4006 
191 
1765 
1706 
59 
175 
1762 
N 
6005 
4006 
191 
1765 
1706 
59 
175 
1762 
Safety Population 
Dulaglutide 
Dula<0.75  
Dula_0.75 
Dula_0.75 only 
Dula_0.75 after Placebo *b,c 
Dula~1.0  
Dula_1.5 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 113/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dula_1.5 only 
Dula_1.5 after Placebo *b,c 
1700 
62 
113 
703 
1661.0 
28.1 
27.7 
283.9 
1700 
62 
113 
703 
1865.3 
35.3 
34.9 
324.3 
Dula>1.5  
Placebo *d  
Active Comparator 
Metformin  
Sitagliptin 
Sitagliptin only 
Sitagliptin after Placebo *c 
Exenatide  
Insuline Glargine  
*a - For some studies (GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD), if a patient ceased study drug during the study, the 
patient was requested to remain in the study. "Treatment exposure" does not include any time after 
cessation of study drug. 
*b - This group excludes patients in GBDA Placebo/Dula who discontinued study treatment while on 
Placebo, yet continued in study into the Dula portion of the study (n=3 Dula_0.75, n=0 Dula_1.5). 
*c - This group includes patients who received Placebo prior to receiving Dulaglutide or Sitagliptin. 
*d - This group includes patients who received Placebo only, and those who subsequently received 
Dulaglutide or Sitagliptin. 
254.8 
680.6 
507.2 
173.5 
274.8 
675.7 
226.7 
637.3 
475.5 
161.8 
236.3 
621.2 
268 
439 
315 
124 
276 
558 
268 
439 
315 
124 
276 
558 
A total of 3045 patients received dulaglutide for at least 24 weeks in Phase 2 and 3 studies, with 2279 patients 
continuing  treatment  through  at  least  50  weeks  (Table  32).  369  patients  were  treated  with  dulaglutide  for 
approximately  2  years.  The  duration  that  patients  were  exposed  to  comparators  in  Phase  2  and  3  studies 
differed depending on the individual study designs.  
Table 32 Summary of Patient Exposure to Study Treatment by Duration in Completed Phase 2 and 3 Studies 
(Safety Population, Studies GBCF, GBCJ, GBCK, GBCZ, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN)  
Variable 
Exposure duration thresholds in weeks; n (%) 
All_Dula 
(N=4006) 
m   M   (%) 
83      4006   ( 2.1) 
3923   4006  ( 97.9) 
3877   4006   ( 96.8) 
3802   4006   ( 94.9) 
3708   4006   ( 92.6) 
3405   3784   ( 90.0) 
3045   3567   ( 85.4) 
2821   3567   ( 79.1) 
2279   2941   ( 77.5) 
1595   2941   ( 54.2) 
642    1255   ( 51.2) 
369    710   ( 52.0) 
157    710   ( 22.1) 
< 1 week  
>= 1 week  
>= 2 weeks  
>= 4 weeks  
>= 8 weeks  
>= 13 weeks  
>= 24 weeks  
>= 26 weeks  
>= 50 weeks  
>= 52 weeks  
>= 78 weeks  
>= 100 weeks 
>= 104 weeks  
Exposure duration in weeks 
Mean  
Minimum  
Q1  
Median  
Q3  
Maximum  
Abbreviations: m = number of patients remaining in study for the specified time period; M = number of 
patients allocated to remain in study for the specified time period; N = total number of patients in specified 
treatment arm; Q1 = first quartile; Q3 = third quartile.  
Note: All  patients are  included  in  M for at  least the number of  weeks expected to  complete the study, 
according to protocol. If the actual duration of treatment exposure is greater than the protocol-specified 
planned treatment period duration, the patient is included in m and M through the actual number of weeks 
of treatment exposure. Exposure  to study drug  may be shorter than time  in study, since patients who 
discontinue  study  drug  were  requested  to  remain  in  study,  for  studies  GBDA,  GBDB,  GBDC,  GBDD. 
All_Dula refers to all dulaglutide treatment groups combined.  
45.8 
0.0 
25.0 
51.0 
53.0 
119.0 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 114/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, 787 healthy subjects, patients with T2DM, and subjects in special populations (for example, renally 
or  hepatically  impaired)  participated  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies;  680  of  them  received  a  dose  of 
dulaglutide (Table 33).  
Table 33 Exposure to Dulaglutide in All Clinical Pharmacology Studies 
Dulaglutide 
dose (mg) 
Healthy 
Subjects 
(N=492) 
34 [ 34] 
T2DM 
(N=181) 
Renally 
impaired 
(N=32) 
Hepatically** 
impaired 
(N=15) 
Hypertensives*** 
(N=23) 
Overall 
(N=680) 
<0.5  
0.5  
0.75  
1  
1.5  
3  
>3  
 N = Number of subjects who received at least one dose of Dulaglutide Subjects dosed multiple times at a specific dose level will be counted only 
once Subjects dosed with various dose levels will be counted at each dose level Values in parentheses [] show the number of exposures; **Subjects 
who were classified as hepatically impaired in study GBDO only Any renally/hepatically impaired subjects who were also T2DM are counted in the 
renal/hepatic groups only for Studies GBCM and GBDO; ***Hypertensive subjects from Part 1 of Study GBCO Single dose studies: GBCC, GBCN, 
GBDO, GBCP, GBCI, GBDR, GBCS, GBCA, GBCQ, GBDT, GBCM, GBCO (Part 2 only), GBDW (Treatment 1), GBCB Multiple dose studies: GBCH, 
GBCR, GBCL, GBCT, GBDM, GBDW(Treatment 2), GBCD, GBCO (Part 1 only) 
51 [ 87] 
9 [ 54] 
19 [ 82] 
48 [155] 
418[830] 
23 [ 50] 
144[197] 
17 [ 53] 
9 [ 54] 
11 [ 66] 
20 [ 64] 
90 [274] 
11 [ 20] 
23 [ 76] 
8 [ 16] 
28 [ 91] 
258 [425] 
12 [ 30] 
121 [121] 
15 [ 15] 
32 [ 32] 
23 [ 84] 
The  overall  exposure  to  dulaglutide,  in  terms  of  number  of  patients  included  in  the  clinical  program,  is 
considered sufficient to provide a reasonable picture of its safety profile. However, it should be noted that of the 
total number of patients who received the drug in the Phase 2 and 3 studies (n=4006) less than half received the 
proposed to be licensed dose of 1.5mg or more (n=1762). In addition, a relatively small number of patients were 
exposed to the drug for more than a 1.5-2 years and this is a limitation in view of its intended long term use.  
Characteristics of Study Population 
The  patient  characteristics  in  data  set  AS1  appear  to  represent  well  European  diabetics  and  are  sufficiently 
balanced across treatment groups.  
Generally,  patients’  baseline  characteristics  were  balanced  across  studies  with  a  few  notable  differences. 
Patients in Study GBDD (insulin glargine comparator; concomitant insulin lispro with or without metformin) had 
a mean age of approximately 59 years which was approximately 3 to 5 years older than in the other studies; this 
study recruited patients in later stages of diabetes, already treated with insulin. Likewise, diabetes duration 
varied  across  studies  with  a  mean  2.6-year  duration  in  patients  who  were  treated  primarily  with  diet  and 
exercise or a single OAM prior to enrollment (Study GBDC) to mean a 12.7-year duration in patients who were 
using prior insulin therapy (Study GBDD).  
More than 90% of patients within each analysis set reported at least one preexisting medical condition. The most 
frequently reported were in the MedDRA SOCs vascular disorders (incidence across treatment groups in AS1 and 
AS3: 68% to 70%), metabolism and nutrition disorders (63% to 70%), musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders (29% to 34%), nervous system disorders (24% to 30%), and GI disorders (23% to 26%). The most 
frequently  reported  MedDRA  Preferred  Terms  (PTs)  were  hypertension  (65%  to  67%)  and  hyperlipidaemia 
(21% to 26%). Aside from an imbalance in the reporting of obesity between placebo (20.6%) and all dulaglutide 
(16.1%)  within  AS1,  preexisting  conditions  were  generally  comparable  both  within  and  between  treatment 
groups in AS1 and AS3.   
Nearly all patients (approximately 99%) in AS1 and approximately 85% of patients in AS3 were receiving an 
antihyperglycaemic agent at baseline. In both AS1 and AS3, the majority of patients (approximately 99% and 
81%, respectively) were taking an OAM at baseline with half of these patients taking OAMs from 2 different 
medication classes. There were no notable differences at baseline in the proportion of patients within or between 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 115/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AS1  and  AS3  who  were  taking  antihypertensives,  lipid-lowering  agents,  anticoagulants,  anti-inflammatory 
agents, or other cardiac therapy. 
In general, it is positive, as discussed also in the Efficacy section above, that the study population comprised a 
wide range of diabetic patients both in terms of demographic and disease characteristics as well as common 
comorbidities  and  background  medications,  which  is  reassuring  for  the  relevance  of  the  findings  to  the 
dulaglutide target population. However, as previously noted, there are areas and groups with little or missing 
information including the lack of data about concomitant use of dulaglutide with SU alone or with basal insulin, 
as well as in special groups such as patients with moderate and severe renal insufficiency, patients with hepatic 
disease or advanced heart failure 
Adverse events 
  Common adverse events 
The profiles of TEAEs that occurred in ≥5% of patients during the planned treatment period (e.g. the entire time 
in study even if study drug had  been discontinued) compared with those  that  occurred  while patients were 
receiving study drug are presented below for patients in AS1 and AS3 (Table 34 and Table 35, respectively). The 
percentage of patients reporting ≥1 TEAE was similar for placebo and all dulaglutide groups up to 26 weeks of 
the planned treatment period (66.7% and 69.8%, respectively) and while patients were receiving study drug 
(66.0% and 68.5%) in AS1.  
Likewise,  the  percentage  of  patients  reporting  ≥1  TEAE  was  similar  for  dulaglutide  0.75  mg  and  1.5  mg 
throughout the planned treatment period (74.2% and 75.4%) and while patients were receiving study drug 
(72.4% and 73.4%) in AS3. With the exception of 2 PTs in AS1 (hyperglycaemia, back pain), and 1 PT (urinary 
tract infection) and 2 SOCs (renal and urinary disorders, vascular disorders) in AS3, the same event terms were 
reported in ≥5% of patients whether events occurred during the planned treatment period or while patients 
were receiving study drug. 
Table 34 Summary and Analysis of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Occurring in at least 5% of Patients 
during the Planned Treatment Period or While Patients Received Study Drug, Observations Through 26 Weeks of 
the  Planned  Treatment  Period  –  Placebo-Controlled  Studies  with  0.75  mg  and  1.5  mg  Dulaglutide  (Safety 
Population, Studies GBCF, GBDA, GBDN) (AS1) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 116/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Abbreviations: Dula = dulaglutide; N = total number of patients in specified treatment group; Pbo = placebo; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event. a Events reported during 
the planned treatment period are events that occurred while the patient was enrolled whether or not that patient was receiving study drug. Events reported while on study drug 
occurred only during study drug exposure.  
Table 35 Summary and Analysis of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Occurring in at least 5% of Patients 
during  the  Planned  Treatment  Period  or  While  Patients  Received  Study  Drug,  All  Observations  During  the 
Planned Treatment Period – Phase 2 and 3 Studies with 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg Dulaglutide (Safety Population, 
Studies GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN) (AS3)  
Abbreviations: Dula = dulaglutide; N = total number of patients in specified treatment group; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event. a Events reported during the planned 
treatment period are events that occurred while the patient was enrolled whether or not that patient was receiving  study drug. Events reported while on study drug occurred only 
during study drug exposure.  
• 
Treatment emergent adverse events comparisons 
Dulaglutide vs Placebo (AS1) 
The most frequently reported TEAEs were within the GI disorders SOC with more patients in the all dulaglutide 
than placebo (36.3% and 21.3%, respectively) group reporting these events. The all dulaglutide group had a 
higher incidence than placebo for nausea (16.8% and 5.3%), diarrhoea (10.7% and 6.7%), vomiting (9.3% and 
2.3%), dyspepsia (4.9% and 2.3%), constipation (3.7% and 0.7%), abdominal distension (2.6% and 0.7%), 
gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) (1.9% and 0.5%), and eructation (1.1% and 0.2%).  
Within  metabolism  and  nutrition  disorders,  more  all  dulaglutide-  than  placebo-treated  patients  (6.8%  and 
1.6%) reported decreased appetite. In contrast, more patients in the placebo than all dulaglutide (5.3% and 
0.6%) group reported hyperglycaemia as a TEAE. Within hepatobiliary disorders, the incidence of cholelithiasis 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 117/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
was higher for all dulaglutide than placebo-treated patients (0.7% and 0%). No other notable differences were 
observed between dulaglutide and placebo patients in AS1.  
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg had a higher incidence than placebo of fatigue (3.5% and 1.8%), upper abdominal pain 
(3.4% and 1.6%), and flatulence (34.4% and 1.4%). The remaining results of TEAE assessments for dulaglutide 
0.75  mg  versus  placebo  and  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  versus  placebo  are  consistent  with  those  above  for  all 
dulaglutide versus placebo. 
Dulaglutide 1.5mg vs 0.75mg (AS3) 
The most frequently reported TEAEs overall in AS3 were GI disorders (dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 43.9%; dulaglutide 
0.75 mg: 34.5%). Dulaglutide 1.5 mg  had  a  higher  incidence  than dulaglutide 0.75 mg of the following GI 
events: nausea (21.2% and 12.9%), diarrhoea (13.7% and 10.7%), vomiting (11.5% and 6.8%), dyspepsia 
(6.9% and 4.1%), constipation (4.9% and  3.4%),  abdominal pain (4.0% and  2.5%), abdominal discomfort 
(2.5% and 1.5%), and flatulence (2.6% and 1.4%). For metabolism and nutrition disorders and investigations, 
more patients receiving dulaglutide 1.5 mg reported decreased appetite (7.7% and 5.1%) and weight decreased 
(1.3% and 0.3%). No other notable differences were observed between the dulaglutide 0.75 and 1.5 mg doses 
in AS3.  
Dulaglutide Doses by Concomitant Antihyperglycaemic Therapy 
In  the  Phase  3  trials  where  dulaglutide  was  administered  together  with  other  antidiabetics  treatments  the 
overall adverse event profile was consistent across the studies with the GI events and infections and infestations 
reported most commonly. Nausea was the most common GI event followed by diarrhoea and vomiting. These 
events were reported consistently at a higher incidence for dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared with dulaglutide 0.75 
mg. The incidence of nausea with dulaglutide 1.5 mg ranged from 15.4% (study GBDB, concomitant metformin 
plus  glimepiride)  to  29.0%  (study  GBDA,  concomitant  metformin  plus  TZD).  The  most  commonly  reported 
infection was nasopharyngitis which was reported at a similar rate for dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg within 
each study.  
Hyperglycaemia was among the TEAEs reported in ≥5% of patients only in Study GBCF (placebo/sitagliptin: 
15.8%; sitagliptin: 15.9%; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 12.6%; dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 9.9%).  
Overall, the data indicate a wide range of TEAEs and incidences  across studies the differences  between the 
studies do not appear to be related to the type of concomitant antihyperglycaemic medications used, with the 
exception of hypoglycaemia which is discussed separately below.  
Dulaglutide vs All Comparators (AS7) 
To address regulatory requests, an analysis was performed for TEAEs in all dulaglutide groups combined versus 
all comparators combined. The analysis included all studies of dulaglutide versus any comparator (placebo as 
well  as  active  agents)  that  had  a  planned  treatment  duration  of  at  least  26  weeks  (the  placebo/sitagliptin 
treatment sequence from Study GBCF was also included). To avoid including patients in both the all dulaglutide 
and  the  all  comparator  groups,  patients  in  the  Study  GBDA  placebo/dulaglutide  treatment  sequences  are 
excluded from this analysis. Overall this analysis includes data from a wide spectrum of T2DM disease stages, 
management strategies and background regimens as well as various comparators.  
Table 36a presents a summary of dulaglutide (all doses) versus all comparators analysis for TEAEs occurring in 
≥5% of patients. Events with higher incidence with dulaglutide were nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, decreased 
appetite,  and  dyspepsia.  The  primary  events  where  all  dulaglutide  separated  from  all  comparators  (either 
direction) tend also to be characterized by significant study-to-study heterogeneity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 118/172 
 
  
  
 
 
Table  36a  All  Dulaglutide  versus  All  Comparator  Analysis  of  TEAEs  in  ≥5%  of  Dulaglutide  Patients,  By 
Descending Frequency of Preferred Term, Full Duration of Phase 2 and 3 Studies of at Least 26 Weeks in Length 
(Safety Population, Studies GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN) (AS7). 
Abbreviations:  CMH  =  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel;  Dula  =  dulaglutide;  N  =  total  number  of  patients  in  specified  treatment  arm;  n  = number  of  patients  with  at  least  one 
treatment-emergent adverse event; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event. Note: All_Dula refers to 0.75 milligrams dulaglutide once weekly and 1.5 milligrams dulaglutide 
once weekly treatment groups combined. All Comparator = metformin for Study GBDC, placebo/sitagliptin or sitagliptin for Study GBCF, exenatide for Study GBDA, insulin 
glargine for Studies GBDB and GBDD, placebo for study GBDN. Patients randomized to the Placebo/Dulaglutide switch arms of Study GBDA are excluded from this analysis. *a 
- Mantel-Haenszel Odds Ratio. All_Dula is numerator, All Comparator is denominator. *b - Heterogeneity of odds ratios across studies was assessed using the Breslow-Day test. *c 
- p-values are from Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test comparing All_Dula to All Comparator stratified by study.  
In order to detect less frequent but potentially relevant AEs, the broad, long-term data set AS7 was further 
analysed and the results are compiled in the table below. The most salient findings are marked in bold.  
Table  36b.  All  Dulaglutide  versus  All  Comparator  Analysis  of  Treatment-Emergent  Adverse  Events,  By 
Descending Frequency of Preferred Term - Full Duration of Phase 2 and 3 Studies of at Least 26 Weeks in Length 
(Safety Population, Studies GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN) (AS7) combined with Table APP.2.7.4.52 
(shortened). Summary and Analysis of TEAEs Occurring During the Planned Treatment Period, By Descending 
Frequency of Preferred Term, All Observations During the Planned Treatment Period – Phase 2 and 3 Studies 
with 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg Dulaglutide (Safety Population, Studies GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN) 
(AS3) 
Patients with >=1 TEAE 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Decreased appetite 
Dyspepsia 
Constipation 
Abdominal pain upper 
Abdominal distension 
Flatulence 
Pancreatic enzymes 
increased 
Eructation 
Hyperchlorhydria 
Weight decreased 
Tachycardia 
Abdominal pain lower 
Arthritis 
Rhinitis 
Localised infection 
Syncope 
Cataract 
Hypotension 
Laryngitis 
Benign prostatic 
hyperplasia 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
All 
Comparator 
(N=1844) 
n (%) 
1359 (73.7) 
182 (9.9) 
148 (8.0) 
81 (4.4) 
40 (2.2) 
63 (3.4) 
23 (1.2) 
42 (2.3) 
24 (1.3) 
18 (1.0) 
12 (0.7) 
7 (0.4) 
4 (0.2) 
5 (0.3) 
6 (0.3) 
4 (0.2) 
3 (0.2) 
5 (0.3) 
4 (0.2) 
4 (0.2) 
21 (1.1) 
3 (0.2) 
2 (0.1) 
2 (0.1) 
Dula 
0.75 
(N=1671) 
n (%) 
1240 (74.2) 
216 (12.9) 
179 (10.7) 
114 (6.8) 
85 (5.1) 
68 (4.1) 
56 (3.4) 
52 (3.1) 
49 (2.9) 
23 (1.4) 
18 (1.1) 
16 (1.4) 
9 (0.5) 
5 (0.3) 
11(0.7) 
10 (0.6) 
7 (0.4) 
11 (0.7) 
4 (0.2) 
9 (0.5) 
8 (0.5) 
8 (0.5) 
7 (0.4) 
6 (0.4) 
Dula 
1.5 
(N=1671) 
n (%) 
1260 (75.4) 
355 (21.2) 
229 (13.7) 
192 (11.5) 
129 (7.7) 
115 (6.9) 
82 (4.9) 
70(4.2) 
42 (2.5) 
43 (2.6) 
30 (1.8) 
23 (1.4) 
17 (1.4) 
21 (8.3) 
12 (0.7) 
10 (0.6) 
12 (0.7) 
6 (1.4) 
9 (0.5) 
6 (0.4) 
6 (0.4) 
4 (0.2) 
6 (0.4) 
6 (0.4) 
All 
Dula 
(N=3342) 
n (%) 
2540 (76.0) 
574 (17.2) 
419 (12.5) 
307 (9.2) 
214 (6.4) 
183 (5.5) 
138 (4.1) 
126 (3.8) 
91 (2.7) 
67 (2.0) 
50 (1.5) 
Odds Ratio 
All Dula 
vs. All 
Comp. 
1.13 
1.89 
1.64 
2.20 
3.09 
1.64 
3.41 
1.68 
2.12 
2.08 
2.32 
39 (1.2) 
26 (0.8) 
26 (0.8) 
24 (0.7) 
20 (0.6) 
19 (0.6) 
19 (0.6) 
16 (0.5) 
15 (0.4) 
14 (0.4) 
14 (0.4) 
14 (0.4) 
12 (0.4) 
3.10 
3.61 
2.88 
2.22 
2.77 
3.51 
2.10 
2.21 
2.07 
0.37 
2.58 
3.87 
3.32 
CMH 
p-value*c 
.014 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
.002 
<.001 
.006 
.007 
.006 
.005 
.019 
.056 
.052 
.029 
.120 
.176 
.182 
.005 
.101 
.042 
.094 
Page 119/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Colitis 
Erectile dysfunction 
Injection site pain 
Proteinuria 
Tinea pedis 
Dermatitis 
Meniscus lesion 
Muscular weakness 
Musculoskeletal stiffness 
Rhinorrhoea 
Sleep apnoea syndrome 
Subcutaneous abscess 
*a - Mantel-Haenszel Odds Ratio. All_Dula is numerator, All Comparator is denominator. 
*c -p-values are from Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test comparing All_Dula to All Comparator stratified by 
study. 
12 (0.4) 
12 (0.4) 
12 (0.4) 
12 (0.4) 
12 (0.4) 
11 (0.3) 
10 (0.3) 
10 (0.3) 
9 (0.3) 
9 (0.3) 
9 (0.3) 
9 (0.3) 
4 (0.2) 
5 (0.3) 
6 (0.4) 
5 (0.3) 
7 (0.4) 
4 (0.2) 
6 (0.4) 
5 (0.3) 
5 (0.3) 
1 (<0.1) 
4 (0.2) 
5 (0.3) 
2 (0.1) 
2 (0.1) 
3 (0.2) 
2 (0.1) 
2 (0.1) 
3 (0.2) 
1 (<0.1) 
2 (0.1) 
2 (0.1) 
15 (0.8) 
11 (0.6) 
0 (0.0) 
8 (0.5) 
7 (0.4) 
6 (0.4) 
7 (0.4) 
5 (0.3) 
6 (0.4) 
4 (0.2) 
4 (0.2) 
3 (0.2) 
8 (0.5) 
4 (0.2) 
3 (0.2) 
.092 
.049 
.251 
.073 
.065 
.268 
.069 
.199 
.164 
.017 
.076 
.029 
3.32 
3.32 
2.21 
3.32 
3.32 
2.03 
5.53 
2.76 
2.49 
0.33 
0.45 
NA 
Like  in  data  set  AS1,  GI  symptoms  were  most  noticeable.  However,  there  are  also  two  other  clusters  of 
potentially  related  AEs,  namely  effects  regarding  heart  function  and  infections.  Tachycardia,  syncope  and 
hypotension were at least doubled in incidence in the all dulaglutide group as compared to the all comparator 
group. This observation is in line with the finding of decreased mean systolic blood pressure and increased mean 
heart rate (see below). Therefore, dulaglutide appears to affect circulation by, to date, unknown mechanisms. 
Other GLP-1 mimetics had similar effects so that this could be regarded as a class effect.  
In respect to infections, there is an imbalance between all dulaglutide and all comparator for several infectious 
disorders,  e.g.  “localised  infection”,  “dermatitis”  and  “subcutaneous  abscess”.  The  accumulation  of  terms 
related to infection among the AEs that were biased towards dulaglutide is noted. The incidence of the events 
was low, and in most cases these were no serious conditions. Among the serious events (see respective section 
below) there were a few cases of pneumonia and urinary tract infection with a numerical imbalance between 
dulaglutide and all comparators. Taken together, it cannot be clearly derived from the existing data whether 
dulaglutide might be associated with an increased incidence of infections and – if so - whether this is of clinical 
relevance. 
In conclusion, as expected for this class, the most frequent adverse events were GI disorders, with nausea, 
diarrhoea and vomiting being the most common and rates generally higher with dulaglutide 1.5mg than the 
0.75mg dose. Small differences in the other most common AEs are noted between dulaglutide and placebo and 
between dulaglutide doses (although there is a trend toward a higher rate with the dulaglutide 1.5mg dose in 
most cases). In general, the types of common events seen with dulaglutide were consistent with those reported 
with other GLP-1 agonists, particularly GI and injection site disorders. A high rate of infections and infestations 
was also observed although there were no notable differences between the key groups. 
In terms of the impact of concomitant treatments, the incidence of nausea and vomiting with dulaglutide 1.5mg 
was at its highest (29.0% and 16.8% respectively) in study GBDA when dulaglutide was given together with 
metformin plus pioglitazone but otherwise the variations were inconsistent. The most significant difference in 
relation to concomitant background diabetic therapy was noted for hypoglycaemia which is discussed in detail 
below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 120/172 
 
  
  
 
 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
• 
Deaths 
There  was  one  death  in  a  clinical  pharmacology  study.  The  investigator  considered  the  death  unrelated  to 
dulaglutide. The subject had severe hepatic impairment and was enrolled in Study GBDO (see Hepatic Safety 
below). Based on the patient’s history and course of disease, it is unlikely that the death is related to dulaglutide. 
There were fifteen (15) deaths during Phase 2 and 3 studies after patients received at least 1 dose of study 
treatment and are included in the clinical trial database (Table  37): sitagliptin 3 (0.68%); insulin glargine 5 
(0.90%); dulaglutide 0.75 mg 3 (0.17%); dulaglutide 1.5 mg 4 (0.23%). As would be expected in patients with 
T2DM, CV events, including events of sudden death, cardio-respiratory arrest, MI, cerebrovascular accident, 
cardiogenic shock, cardiac failure, ventricular fibrillation, were the most commonly reported reasons for death. 
There was no significant difference between the all dulaglutide group compared with the all comparators group 
for risk of adjudicated death from CV causes (3[0.08%]; 5[0.24%]). None of the deaths were judged by the 
respective investigators to be related to dulaglutide or protocol procedures.  
Table  37  Deaths  in  Dulaglutide  Phase  2  and  3  Studies;  All  Postbaseline  Observations,  Including  Follow-up 
Period; Safety Population, Studies GBCF, GBCJ, GBCK, GBCZ, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN  
Abbreviations: AE = adverse event; F = female; Inv = investigator identification number; M = male; Pat = patient identification number. Notes: Dula_x.x refers to x.x milligrams 
dulaglutide once weekly. For patients who can switch treatment, the most-recently received study medication is marked with '*'. All 'Days' variables are computed as at the Date of 
AE.  Days  on  Therapy  and  Days  Since  First Dose  are  computed  from  initiation  of  most-recently  received  study  medication.  Days  Since  First  Dose  can  be  greater  than  Days 
on Therapy, for patients who ceased study drug but remained in study. Days Since Final Dose is indicated as 'ongoing' when the patient was still receiving study drug at the Date of 
AE.  
In addition to the above, one patient (in study GBCZ, on dulaglutide 0.75 mg) died of a pancreatic carcinoma 
after the study. The patient had received only 1 dose of study drug. Also two patients (one in study GBDD and 
one in study GBDD [infected skin ulcer] died following screening but before randomization. Another patient died 
while participating in a clinical pharmacology study.  
In total 17 deaths occurred after patients received study drug in completed clinical pharmacology, Phase 2, and 
Phase 3 studies in the dulaglutide program; 9 of the deaths were in patients who received dulaglutide.  
In general, the number of deaths in the dulaglutide program was relatively small; there is no indication of a 
higher rate in the dulaglutide groups.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 121/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
• 
Other Serious Adverse Events (SAE) 
Dulaglutide vs Placebo (AS1) 
Table 38 presents a summary of SAEs by PT occurring in 2 or more dulaglutide treated patients in AS1. Patients 
in the placebo (4.4%) and all dulaglutide (4.2%) groups reported a similar incidence of SAEs in these studies. 
The  most  frequently  reported  SAEs  for placebo  and  all  dulaglutide  were  appendicitis  (0%  and  0.3%, 
respectively), cholelithiasis (0% and 0.2%), atrial fibrillation (0.4% and 0.2%), and coronary artery disease 
(0.4% and 0.1%).  
Serious GI events were reported for 7 (0.4%) of all dulaglutide-treated patients. No placebo-treated patient 
reported serious GI events. Gastritis was reported as a serious event for 2 patients while lower abdominal pain, 
Barrett’s  oesophagus, obstructive  femoral  hernia,  GERD,  and  gastric  ulcer  were  each  reported  by  1 
patient. Overall, no important differences were observed between patients in the placebo and dulaglutide group 
with respect to SAEs.  
Table  38 Serious Adverse Events by Preferred Term, Occurring in Two or More Dulaglutide-Treated Patients, 
Observations Through 26 Weeks of the Planned Treatment Period – Placebo-Controlled Studies with 0.75 mg 
and 1.5 mg Dulaglutide (Safety Population, Studies GBCF, GBDA, GBDN) (AS1) 
Abbreviations:  Dula  =  dulaglutide;  N  =  total  number  of  patients  in  specified  treatment  arm;  SAE  =  serious  adverse event. Note:  Dula_x.x  refers  to  x.x  mg 
dulaglutide once weekly. All_Dula refers to Dula_0.75 and Dula_1.5 treatment groups combined. a This table reports incidence of SAEs occurring in 2 or more 
dulaglutide-treated patients. All other SAEs were reported by 1 dulaglutide- and/or placebo-treated patient.  
Dulaglutide 1.5mg vs 0.75mg (AS3) 
The incidence of SAEs was similar between dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg (8.7% and 8.0%, respectively) in 
this analysis set. The most frequently reported SAEs for dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg were hypoglycaemia 
(0.5%  and  0.7%,  respectively;  events  of  severe  hypoglycaemia  were  to  be  reported  as  SAEs),  pneumonia 
(0.5% and 0.1%), appendicitis (0.2% and 0.2%), and cholelithiasis (0.1% and 0.4%). No other individual PT 
was reported as serious by more than 0.3% in either dose group. Importantly, events of severe hypoglycaemia 
were to be reported as SAEs.  
The  SOC  with  the  highest  incidence  of  SAEs  was  infections  and  infestations  (dulaglutide  0.75  mg:  1.9%; 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 1.8%), which includes appendicitis and pneumonia. Serious GI events were reported for 16 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 122/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
(1%) dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 13 (0.8%) 1.5 mg-treated patients. Gastritis was reported as serious for 1 patient 
treated with dulaglutide 0.75 mg and for 2 patients treated with 1.5 mg. Serious colitis, GI haemorrhage, GERD, 
and lower GI haemorrhage were each reported by 2 patients. Overall, no important differences were observed 
between the dulaglutide 0.75 mg- and 1.5 mg treated patients with respect to SAEs.  
Dulaglutide vs All Comparators (AS7) 
Overall the incidence of SAEs was similar in the all dulaglutide and all comparator groups (8.5% and 10.1%, 
respectively). There were no significant differences between all dulaglutide and all comparator groups. The most 
common individual preferred term for both groups was hypoglycaemia (all comparator: 1.0%; all dulaglutide: 
0.6%). Aside from hypoglycaemia, no events occurred at greater than 0.3% in the all dulaglutide group; the 
only events exceeding this threshold in the all comparator group were coronary artery disease (0.4%), angina 
pectoris (0.4%), and MI (0.4%). 
• 
Adverse events of special interest 
Gastrointestinal Tolerability 
As discussed above, the most common adverse events with dulaglutide in Phase 2 and 3 studies were generally 
GI in nature with a higher incidence with dulaglutide than placebo group, and with dulaglutide 1.5 mg than 0.75 
mg. GI adverse events were also associated with the highest incidences of early discontinuation from study drug 
or study during the full planned treatment duration (dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 2.5%; dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 4.8%). 
In Phase 2 and 3 studies, the onset of nausea was dose dependent, peaked during the first 2 weeks of treatment, 
and then rapidly declined (Figure 28). By 4 to 6 weeks of dosing, new nausea events with dulaglutide was <2%, 
similar to placebo, and remained so or lower throughout the observation period. The time course of vomiting or 
diarrhoea followed a similar pattern. 
Figure 28 Onset of specific nausea symptoms in Analysis Set 1 and Analysis Set 3. 
Specific nausea symptom preferred terms: nausea, procedural nausea. Note: Patients within each interval represent those who 
reported their first event of specific nausea during the discrete interval or who reported a subsequent event of specific nausea 
when all previous events had resolved within a previous interval.  
As previously discussed, the company examined the possible effect of dose titration on GI events (see Dose 
response study above). Overall, it was concluded that although initiating dulaglutide treatment with 0.75 mg is 
associated with lower rates of initial GI symptoms compared to initiating dulaglutide at 1.5 mg, implementing a 
dose titration strategy would be expected to decrease symptoms only for the first dose but ultimately would 
delay development of tolerance. However, the overall data are limited. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 123/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
The Applicant also compared the incidence of GI events with exenatide BID and metformin. In study GBDA there 
was no significant difference in the incidence of reported GI TEAEs for dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared with titrated 
exenatide  BID,  with  the  exception  of  constipation,  which  was  more  common  with  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  than 
exenatide.  In  study  GBDC  the  incidence  of  most  GI  events  was  not  significantly  different  between  either 
dulaglutide dose or metformin, though dulaglutide 0.75 mg had a lower rate of nausea and diarrhoea. Both 
dulaglutide doses had a significantly higher incidence of constipation than metformin. 
The SmPC includes information about GI events and a warning that dulaglutide has not been studied in patients 
with severe gastrointestinal disease, including severe gastroparesis, and is therefore not recommended in these 
patients.  This  is  appropriate.  Additional  information  about  the  observed  incidence  of  the  most  common  GI 
events has also been included in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Other Potentially Clinically Important GI Events 
Early in clinical development, Lilly observed  a potential imbalance  in the  reporting of  cholelithiasis in Study 
GBDN  among  dulaglutide  and  other  comparator  groups.  In  addition,  a  cluster  of  acute  appendicitis  cases 
(initially reported only in Study GBDA) prompted review of such cases. Lilly also became aware of a regulatory 
interest in the occurrence  of GI stenosis and obstruction in patients with diabetes being treated with GLP-1 
receptor agonists. A review of the above events in the dulaglutide clinical program was performed. 
Thirty-eight patients (38) reported cholelithiasis across the Phase 2 and 3 studies. The exposure-adjusted rate 
of cholelithiasis (Table 39) was similar for dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg. Based on the available data it was 
concluded that there is no increased risk of cholelithiasis in patients treated with dulaglutide. 
Table 39 Summary of Cholelithiasis Events by Treatment in Phase 2 and 3 Studies 
Study 
Treatment 
Placebo  
Metformin  
Sitagliptin  
Exenatide BID  
Insulin glargine  
Dula_0.75  
Dula_1.5 
N 
703  
268  
439  
276  
558  
1765  
1762 
n 
1  
2  
5  
0  
4  
15  
13 
% 
Patient-Years 
0.1  
0.7  
1.1  
0  
0.7  
0.8  
0.7 
283.9  
226.7  
637.3  
236.3  
621.2  
1724.2  
1689.1 
n/1000 
patient-years 
3.52  
8.82  
7.84  
0  
6.44  
8.70  
7.70 
Ten cases of appendicitis were reported for patients treated with either exenatide BID (n=1, 0.4%), insulin 
glargine (n=1, 0.2%), or dulaglutide 1.5 mg (n=4, 0.2%) and 0.75 mg (n=4, 0.2%) during Phase 2 and 3. Five 
of the events were reported in Study GBDA. There were no reports of appendicitis with placebo, metformin, or 
sitagliptin. The exposure-adjusted rate of appendicitis was similar for dulaglutide 0.75 mg (2.32 events/1000 
patient-years) and 1.5 mg (2.37 events/1000 patient-years).  
Fifteen (15) patients reported events of Gastrointestinal Stenosis and Obstruction during the planned treatment 
periods in Phase 2 and 3 studies. A total of 8 patients reported GI obstruction alone in these studies (metformin: 
1 [0.4%]; insulin glargine: 2 [0.6%]; exenatide BID: 1 [0.4%]; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 2 [0.6%]; dulaglutide 1.5 
mg: 2 [0.6%]). The incidence of GI obstruction events was similarly distributed across the active comparators 
and dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg groups, with no suggestion of a dose relationship.  
Pancreas  
The pancreatic safety assessment plan for the overall dulaglutide program was guided by key interactions with 
regulatory  agencies.  The  applicant  implemented  measures  to  minimize  potential  risks  of  pancreatitis  and 
address other concerns raised by regulatory authorities:  
- Patients with a history of acute or chronic pancreatitis were excluded from dulaglutide clinical studies. Patients 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 124/172 
 
  
  
 
 
diagnosed with pancreatitis were permanently discontinued from study drug, and no rechallenge was allowed.  
-  Measures  were  implemented  to  identify  actual  and  potential  cases  of  pancreatitis  based  on  clinical  signs, 
symptoms, laboratory assessments, and expert evaluations. 
Pancreatitis 
Events were identified and reported using a Pancreatic Follow-up Assessment Form (PFUA) case report form for 
investigator-reported cases of pancreatitis; cases of severe and/or serious abdominal pain of unknown origin; 
confirmed elevations (>3x ULN) in lipase, pancreatic amylase, or total amylase, irrespective of symptoms and 
imaging results.  
Across Phase 2 and 3 studies, 171 patients had 226 PFUA forms. A total of 151 patients received adjudication 
outcomes. Nineteen patients (comparators: 7; dulaglutide: 12) had investigator-reported pancreatitis (acute or 
chronic). Of the 151 patients with events that had an adjudication outcome: 
- 
nine  (9)  patients  had  events  determined  to  be  pancreatitis  (placebo:  1  and  sitagliptin:  3  [all  acute 
pancreatitis]; dulaglutide: 5 patients [acute pancreatitis: 2; chronic pancreatitis: 2; type unknown: 1]).  
- 
Four  (4)  patients  had  cases  that  were  deemed  as  “unknown  if  pancreatitis”  (insulin  glargine:  1; 
dulaglutide: 3). 
From the 9 patients determined to have pancreatitis 6 had acute pancreatitis, 2 chronic pancreatitis, and 1 type 
unknown.  Exposure-adjusted  incidence  rates  (patients/1000  patient-years)  were  as  follows:  placebo  3.523, 
sitagliptin 4.707, and dulaglutide 1.416. There were  no events for exenatide BID  (Study GBDA), metformin 
(Study  GBDC),  or  insulin  glargine  (Study  GBDB  and  Study  GBDD).  Acute  pancreatitis  exposure–adjusted 
incidence rates (patients/1000 patient-years) were for placebo 3.523, sitagliptin 4.707, and dulaglutide 0.566. 
Two dulaglutide-treated patients had cases of chronic pancreatitis (0.566 patients/1000 patient-years). A total 
of 4 cases (insulin glargine: 1; dulaglutide: 3) were adjudicated as “unknown if pancreatitis.” 
For patients with pancreatitis, there was no clear clinical pattern with respect to baseline characteristics, clinical 
presentation and course, presence of major risk factors and exposure duration (1 day to 65 weeks) before the 
occurrence of the event.  
In the clinical pharmacology studies, pancreatitis was not observed in the single-dose safety study in healthy 
subjects (Study GBCA) at single doses up to 12 mg or in the multiple-dose safety study in patients with T2DM 
(Study GBCD) at once weekly doses up to 8 mg for 5 weeks. In the TQT study, Study GBCC, following single 
supratherapeutic doses of 4 or 7 mg dulaglutide, 4/109 healthy subjects had a diagnosis of pancreatitis after 
showing notable elevations in pancreatic enzymes; 3 of the subjects received 4 mg and 1 subject received 7 mg 
of dulaglutide. Adjudication of these 4 events was requested and 2 of the 4 of the cases were determined as 
acute pancreatitis while 2 were determined as no pancreatitis. 
Pancreatic enzymes 
Baseline pancreatic enzyme measurements indicated that a proportion of patients with T2DM have elevated 
exocrine  pancreatic  enzymes,  particularly  lipase,  before  initiating  study  treatment.  The  mean  values  of 
pancreatic enzymes at randomization were similar across the Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials. 
In AS1, after randomization lipase increased from baseline, approximately 14% to 20% over time. The LS mean 
increase for pancreatic amylase ranged from approximately 17% to 20% whereas the increase for total amylase 
ranged from  approximately  9% to 12%.  For each  analyte, patients treated with placebo had  small changes 
(≤3% of the baseline mean value). The difference between dulaglutide and placebo was significant at all time 
points for each analyte.  
Dulaglutide-treated patients had a numerically higher incidence of treatment-emergent high lipase, pancreatic 
amylase, and total amylase values (>1x ULN) compared to placebo but most patients in both the placebo and all 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 125/172 
 
  
  
dulaglutide groups had pancreatic enzymes within the normal range (Figure 29). The incidence of patients with 
postbaseline values ≥3 to <5x ULN was higher for all dulaglutide than placebo (4.6% and 2.5%, respectively) 
whereas the incidence of patients with values ≥5x ULN was similar for all dulaglutide and placebo (1.8% and 
1.6%).  
Figure  29  Plot  of  treatment-emergent  high  pancreatic  enzymes  and  maximum  postbaseline  pancreatic 
enzymes by category –observations through 26 weeks - placebo-controlled studies with 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg 
dulaglutide (Studies GBCF, GBDA, and GBDN) (AS1). 
In  safety  set  AS3  the  analyses  showed  that  the  increase  in  pancreatic  enzymes  was  generally  larger  for 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg than 0.75 mg.  
No interaction between dulaglutide and various concomitant therapies was observed for pancreatic enzymes 
measured across Phase 3 trials. Similar changes in pancreatic enzymes were seen for dulaglutide compared with 
exenatide  BID,  sitagliptin,  and  metformin.  Changes  in  pancreatic  enzymes  with  insulin  glargine  were 
inconsistent across studies (no change or small increases). 
Warnings about pancreatitis are included in section 4.4 of the proposed SmPC.Section 4.8 includes information 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 126/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
about the reported cases of acute pancreatitis and the observed increases in pancreatic enzymes.   
Thyroid  
Based on advice regulatory authorties and external thyroid experts, the applicant implemented measures to 
assess and minimize potential thyroid safety risks during Phase 2 and 3 studies with ≥12 weeks of treatment, 
except Studies GBCJ and GBCK that were ongoing at the time of implementation:  
-  Exclusion criteria: Patients with self or family history of increased risk for MTC or multiple endocrine neoplasia 
syndrome type 2 (MEN2), and patients with a screening/baseline serum calcitonin ≥20 pg/mL were excluded 
(the 20 pg/mL cutoff was chosen to allow enrolment of patients with a low risk of preexisting thyroid C-cell 
disease and facilitate characterizing the effect of dulaglutide on these cells)  
-  Serial  monitoring  of  calcitonin:  Patients  who  met  specified  calcitonin  values  (>35  pg/mL)  were  to  be 
discontinued from the study and an endocrinology consultation was to be obtained.  
Calcitonin 
Mean calcitonin values at randomization were near the lower limit of the reference range across studies 
and generally was lower for females than males. When compared to placebo (AS1), mean baseline calcitonin 
values were similar for the placebo and all dulaglutide group. Through 16 and 26 weeks postbaseline, mean 
calcitonin changed little within treatments resulting in similar mean calcitonin values between placebo and all 
dulaglutide at 26 weeks. Using last postbaseline observation, the LS mean difference (95% CI) in calcitonin was 
not notably different for all dulaglutide compared with placebo (0.17 [-0.03, 0.36]). In safety set AS3, mean 
baseline calcitonin values were found similar for dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg. For postbaseline anchor points 
up to 104 weeks, mean calcitonin changed little within treatments resulting in similar mean calcitonin between 
dulaglutide doses. Using last postbaseline observation, the LS mean difference (95% CI) in calcitonin was not 
notably different for dulaglutide 1.5 mg compared with 0.75 mg (-0.02 [-0.16, 0.11]). A numerically higher 
proportion of patients who received dulaglutide (1.0%) than placebo (0.4%) had maximum postbaseline values 
≥20 pg/mL. In AS3, similar proportions of patients who received dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg (1.0% and 
1.0%, respectively) had maximum postbaseline values ≥20 pg/mL.  
Compared  to  all  active  comparators  in  the  Phase  2  and  3  studies,  similar  proportions  of  patients  across 
treatment  groups  had  potentially  clinically  important  postbaseline  calcitonin  values  (placebo:  0.3%;  insulin 
glargine:  0.7%;  sitagliptin:  0.7%;  exenatide  BID:  0.4%;  dulaglutide  0.75  mg:  0.6%;  dulaglutide  1.5  mg: 
0.8%; dulaglutide >1.5 mg: 2.2%). The exposure-adjusted incidence rates of potentially clinically important 
calcitonin values were similar for dulaglutide 0.75 mg (6.38 events/1000 patient-years) and dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
(7.72 events/1000 patient-years). The event rates per 1000 patient-years for comparators in the Phase 2 and 
3  studies  were:  placebo  (7.75),  insulin  glargine  (6.44),  sitagliptin  (4.71),  and  exenatide  BID  (4.23).  No 
metformin-treated patients had potentially clinically important postbaseline calcitonin values. 
Thyroid Neoplasia, Including Malignancies 
Searches in the safety database revealed: i. 15 patients with the PT goiter (placebo: 2; insulin glargine: 1; 
sitagliptin: 1; exenatide BID: 2; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 4; dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 5) and ii. 15 patients reporting 17 
events in the thyroid neoplasm HLT (insulin glargine: 3; sitagliptin: 1; exenatide BID: 1; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 
5; dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 4; dulaglutide >1.5 mg: 1). 
Among  the  15  patients  with  thyroid  neoplasm,  3  patients  reported  thyroid  cancer.  One  event  was  an  MTC 
determined by Lilly to be preexisting (Patient GBCF-013-0701, dulaglutide 2.0 mg). The other 2 events were 
papillary thyroid cancers (Patient GBCF-608-6653, dulaglutide 1.5 mg; Patient GBDB-202-2102, dulaglutide 1.5 
mg). Neither of these patients had any abnormal measurements of serum calcitonin. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 127/172 
 
  
  
 
As  with  other  very  rare  events,  especially  neoplasias,  considering  the  relatively  short  exposure  with  only  a 
limited number of patients treated for more than 18-24 months, it is very difficult to evaluate the potential risks 
associated with the long-term use of dulaglutide. This is reflected in the pharmacovigilance plan. 
Hypoglycaemia 
During  clinical  development  the  assessment  of  hypoglycaemia  risk  was  based  on  the  consensus  statement 
developed by the American Diabetes Association Hypoglycaemia Working Group in 2005 and later adopted by 
the FDA and the EMA. Analyses of hypoglycaemia risk include categories defined by 2 plasma glucose cutoffs. 
The principal set of analyses was based on the ≤70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) cutoff, as recommended by the ADA and 
adopted by the FDA and the EMEA. Another set is based on <54 mg/dL (3 mmol/L) cutoff based on criteria 
similar  to  those  used  in  development  and  evaluation  of  other  recent  marketing  applications  for 
antihyperglycaemic agents (such as Bydureon) and the literature [results available but not shown in this report]. 
Severe hypoglycaemia was defined as a hypoglycaemic event requiring assistance of another person to actively 
administer carbohydrate, glucagon, or other resuscitative actions, as judged by investigators.  
Table 40 summarizes the incidence and estimated event rate per patient per year (event/patient/year) for total, 
documented symptomatic, and severe hypoglycaemia (plasma glucose ≤70 mg/dL, excluding post-rescue) in 
each Phase 3 study. Relevant data when the <54 mg/dL (3 mmol/L) cutoff was used have been submitted but 
are not shown here.  
Table 40 By-Study Summary of Total, Documented, and Severe Hypoglycaemia (Plasma Glucose Less than or 
Equal to 70 mg/dL, Excluding Post-Rescue Visits) – Dulaglutide and Comparator-Treated Patients in Phase 3 
Studies (Safety Population, Studies GBCF, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 128/172 
 
  
  
 
Percentage of Patients [Estimated Event Rate/Patient/Year] 
Monotherapy (52 weeks; Study GBDC) 
Total 
Documented symptomatic 
Severe 
In Combination with MET (26-week 
placebo-controlled period; Study GBCF) 
Total 
Documented symptomatic 
Severe 
In Combination with MET (104 weeks; 
Study GBCF) 
Total 
Documented symptomatic 
Severe 
In Combination with MET+PIO (26-week 
placebo-controlled period; Study GBDA) 
MET 
(N=268) 
12.7 [0.28] 
4.9 [0.09] 
0 [0.0] 
Placebo 
(N=177) 
1.1 [0.08] 
1.1 [0.08] 
0 [0.0] 
Sitagliptin 
(N=315) 
8.6 [0.20] 
5.7 [0.17] 
0 [0.0] 
Placebo 
(N=141) 
Total 
Documented symptomatic 
Severe 
In Combination with MET+PIO (52 weeks; 
Study GBDA)  
Total  
Documented symptomatic  
Severe 
In Combination with MET+SU (78 weeks; 
Study GBDB)  
Total  
Documented symptomatic  
Severe 
3.5 [0.35]  
1.4 [0.06] 
0 [0.0] 
Exenatide BID 
(N=276)  
18.5 [1.13]  
13.4 [0.75] 0.7 
 [0.01] 
Insulin glargine 
(N=262)  
71.4 [6.90]  
51.1 [3.02] 
0.8 [0.01] 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg (N=270) 
11.1 [0.47] 
5.9 [0.15] 
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg (N=302) 
4.0 [0.18] 
2.6 [0.13] 
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg (N=302) 
8.6 [0.21] 
6.3 [0.18] 
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg (N=280)  
10.7 [1.09]  
4.6 [0.18]  
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg (N=280)  
15.4 [0.90]  
6.1 [0.14]  
0 [0.0]a 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg (N=272)  
56.6 [4.18]  
39.0 [1.67]  
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
(N=269) 
12.3 [0.89] 
6.3 [0.62] 
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
(N=304) 
7.9 [0.39] 
5.6 [0.26] 
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
(N=304) 
12.8 [0.26] 
10.9 [0.19] 
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
(N=279)  
10.4 [0.44]  
5.0 [0.22]  
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
(N=279)  
12.5 [0.40]  
6.5 [0.19]  
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
(N=273)  
58.6 [4.27]  
40.3 [1.67] 
 0.7 [0.01]b 
In Combination with Insulin 
lispro±MET(52 weeks; Study GBDD) 
Insulin glargine 
(N=296) 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg(N=293) 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
(N=295) 
89.9 [57.17] 
Total 
83.4 [40.95] 
Documented symptomatic 
Severe 
5.1 [0.09] 
a  An  event  of  severe  hypoglycemia  was  also  reported  by  a  patient  in  the  placebo/dulaglutide  0.75  mg  treatment arm  during  the 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg period after the patient had initiated rescue therapy with a sulphonylurea.  
b  An  event  of  severe  hypoglycemia  was  reported  by  a  patient  in  the  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  treatment  arm  while receiving  metformin, 
approximately 7 weeks after discontinuing concomitant glimepiride.  
86.1 [41.74] 
80.0 [31.06] 
3.4 [0.06] 
90.1 [48.38] 
85.3 [35.66] 
2.4 [0.05] 
Dulaglutide vs Placebo 
Studies  GBCF  (background  metformin)  and  GBDA  (background  metformin  plus  TZD)  were  summarized  for 
patients receiving placebo and dulaglutide 0.75 mg or 1.5 mg doses (separately and combined) through 26 
weeks. In dulaglutide-treated patients the estimated rates of hypoglycaemic events/patient/year were small, 
but numerically higher, than those on placebo in each study. With concomitant metformin in Study GBCF, 5.9% 
of  dulaglutide-treated  patients  reported  hypoglycaemia 
through  26  weeks  of 
treatment  (0.28 
events/patient/year)  compared  with  1.1%  of  placebo-treated  patients  (0.08  events/patient/year).  A  similar 
pattern was observed in patients receiving concomitant metformin plus TZD in Study GBDA. No events of severe 
hypoglycaemia were reported for placebo or dulaglutide in Study GBCF or Study GBDA through 26 weeks. 
Dulaglutide 1.5mg vs 0.75mg 
The incidence and estimated rates of total hypoglycaemia were similar for dulaglutide 0.75 mg (22.5%; 1.40 
events/patient/year) and dulaglutide 1.5 mg (23.7%; 1.42 events/patient/year). Two patients (0.2%) treated 
with dulaglutide 1.5 mg reported severe hypoglycaemia but none of patients who received dulaglutide 0.75 mg.  
Dulaglutide vs Active Comparators 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 129/172 
 
  
  
 
 
In Studies GBDC, GBCF, and GBDA, the incidence of total hypoglycaemia during the full treatment and the rate 
of  hypoglycaemia  with  dulaglutide  was  numerically  lower  than  that  of  exenatide  BID,  similar  to  that  of 
sitagliptin, and higher than that of metformin (Table 40 above).  
Two  studies  compared  dulaglutide  to  insulin  glargine,  Study  GBDB  and  GBDD.  The  incidence  of  total 
hypoglycaemia was lower with dulaglutide 0.75 and 1.5 mg versus insulin glargine in Study GBDB and similar in 
Study GBDD. For the entire treatment period, the rates were lower in both studies for the dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
dose versus insulin glargine. There were 24 events of severe hypoglycaemia with insulin glargine, 15 events 
with dulaglutide 0.75 mg, and 13 events with dulaglutide 1.5 mg in these 2 studies. The majority of these events 
were reported in Study GBDD.  
Impact of Concomitant Antihyperglycaemic Treatment 
In  Studies  GBDC  (monotherapy),  GBCF  (concomitant  metformin),  and GBDA  (concomitant  metformin  plus 
TZD), the incidence of total hypoglycaemia during the full treatment period for dulaglutide 1.5 mg, the incidence 
was  12.3%,  12.8%,  and  12.5%  respectively;  for  dulaglutide  0.75  mg  was  slightly  lower.  Estimated  event 
rate/patient/year of total hypoglycaemia followed a similar pattern. 
The addition of dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg to metformin plus glimepiride in Study GBDB was associated 
with a higher incidence (56.6% and 58.6%, respectively) and rates (4.18 and 4.27 events/patient/year) of total 
hypoglycaemia compared to Studies GBDC, GBCF, and GBDA, despite similar reduction in HbA1c over time.  
In Study GBDD, dulaglutide was combined with titrated pre-meal insulin lispro. Patients were also allowed to use 
metformin (approximately 73%). This trial was associated with the highest incidence and rate of hypoglycaemia 
observed in the Phase 3 program which at 52-week for dulaglutide 0.75 mg was 90.1% and for dulaglutide 1.5 
mg  was  86.1%  (48.38  events/patient/year  and  for  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  was 41.74  events/patient/year 
respectively). Seven dulaglutide 0.75 mg-treated patients and 10 dulaglutide 1.5 mg-treated patients reported 
11 and 15 events of severe hypoglycaemia, respectively.   
Severe Hypoglycaemia 
A total of 41 patients (insulin glargine: 18; exenatide BID: 2; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 9; dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 12) 
reported 62 events severe hypoglycaemia. Most events (54 of 62) occurred prior to initiation of any rescue 
therapy. Three patients experienced 8 events of severe hypoglycaemia after initiating a rescue medication.  
Rates of severe hypoglycaemia with dulaglutide varied across Phase 3 trials. The majority of patients (34 of 41 
[82.9%]) were in Study GBDD and received insulin lispro with or without metformin as concomitant treatment. 
Of the 55 events in Study GBDD, 48 occurred during the treatment period while patients were receiving their 
randomized therapies (insulin glargine: 22 events in 15 [5.1%] patients; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 15 events in 7 
[2.4%] patients; dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 11 events in 10 [3.4%] patients). In Study GBDB, 4 patients reported 
severe hypoglycaemia. Three of the patients (insulin glargine: 2; dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 1) each reported 1 event 
while receiving concomitant therapy with metformin plus glimepiride. Another dulaglutide-treated patient (1.5 
mg)  had  an  event  while  receiving  metformin,  approximately  7  weeks  after  discontinuing  concomitant 
glimepiride.  In  Study  GBDA  (concomitant  metformin  plus  TZD),  3  patients  reported  severe  hypoglycaemia 
(exenatide BID: 2; dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 1). One of these patients (on placebo/dulaglutide 0.75 mg) had the 
event during dulaglutide treatment after receiving a sulphonylurea (glipizide XL) as rescue therapy. 
In  general,  with  regard  to  the  overall  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  although  differences  in  the  methodologies, 
measurement time points, study populations and background therapy levels between the dulaglutide studies 
and previous trials with GLP-1 agonists may not allow straightforward comparisons, the initial data suggested a 
possibly  higher  incidence  of  hypoglycaemia  with  dulaglutide  than  other  members  of  the  class  in  different 
settings, and even more when dulaglutide was combined with SU or insulin. In response to questions on this 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 130/172 
 
  
  
subject  the  Applicant  has  provided  some  additional  analyses  supporting  that  the  hypoglycaemia  rates 
particularly when dulaglutide is combined with a SU or insulin are comparable with other members of the class 
and rates reported in the literature, especially when taking also into account differences in the definitions of 
hypoglycaemia between studies.   
It is true that the background dose of glimepiride in study GBDB (median 6 mg at all timepoints; in addition to 
median 2550 mg of metformin) was high (according to the SmPC, 6mg/day is the maximum recommended 
glimepiride dose, while doses of more than 4mg are recommended only in exceptional cases) and the glycaemic 
targets in study GBDD might be too stringent for a population with such long-standing diabetes. It is likely that 
hypoglycaemia would be less frequent if lower doses of glimepiride and insulin were used in the trials but at this 
point it is difficult to determine to what extent SU and insulin dose adjustments alone would be sufficient to 
mitigate the risks. Differences between the two dulaglutide doses tested in the studies under question (GBDB 
and GBDD) were small. This could be explained by the already observed high incidence across all groups, not 
allowing detecting further small differences between treatments. This may also be possibly explained by higher 
doses of concomitant insulin lispro required to achieve the target PG values with dulaglutide 0.75 mg compared 
with dulaglutide 1.5 mg. Still it is not entirely clear if lowering dulaglutide dose could have a significant impact 
on hypoglycaemia. 
The Applicant suggests that the risk of hypoglycaemia attributable to dulaglutide is low and similar to the risk 
observed with active comparators metformin, sitagliptin and exenatide BID, despite greater glycaemic control 
with dulaglutide. They also argue that in the two insulin comparator studies treatment with dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
dose  resulted  in  superior  glycaemic  control,  lower  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  and  fewer  episodes  of  severe 
hypoglycaemia (in Study GBDD only) compared to insulin glargine.  
The Applicant also submitted a summary of the recently completed of Study H9X-MC-GBDE (please see outline 
of  the  study  above)  comparing  the  dulaglutide  1.5mg/week  with  liraglutide  1.8mg/day  in  adult  T2DM  with 
HbA1c ≥7.0% to ≤10% not optimally controlled with diet and exercise and a dose of metformin that was at least 
1500 mg/day. At 26 weeks efficacy measures were similar between the two treatments. A total of 43 (7.2%) 
patients (dulaglutide, 8.7%; and liraglutide, 5.7%) experienced total hypoglycaemia (PG ≤3.9 mmol/L) during 
the  study  and  16  patients  (dulaglutide,  2.7%;  and  liraglutide,  2.7%)  had  documented  symptomatic 
hypoglycaemia. There were no episodes of severe hypoglycaemia. 
In general, although there are some limitations (especially with indirect comparisons based on literature data), 
overall the submitted evidence seems to support the Applicant’s arguments and the rates of hypoglycaemia do 
not appear excessively higher than other relevant therapies for comparable levels of glycaemic control. The new 
data from GBDE study are consistent with this view.  
Certainly the risk is much higher when dulaglutide is given with insulin or a sulphonylurea and the SmPC includes 
a warning and recommendations for the need of dose adjustment for those cases which is acceptable. Relevant 
rates are also reported in section 4.8 of the SmPC . 
However, there are still uncertainties particularly with respect to the risk of hypoglycaemia in more vulnerable 
patient groups. The Applicant has provided some analyses for older patients and patients with impaired renal 
function from the insulin studies but data in very old patients and patients with more severe renal disease are 
scarce and it is not possible to draw conclusions. The current lack of data with dulaglutide in those groups is 
reflected in the product information.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 131/172 
 
  
  
 
Injection Site Reactions 
Dulaglutide was supplied in a 3 mL glass vial and administered by a syringe for most of the Phase 2 clinical trials 
and also for the Phase  2/3 study, Study GBCF.  Patients enrolled in the Phase  3 studies were provided with 
prefilled syringes for ease of administration of study drug.   
Across placebo and dulaglutide treatment groups, 44 out of 2916 patients had an injection site adverse event. 
There were numerically more events in the dulaglutide treatment group (38, 1.7%) compared to placebo (6, 
0.9%), but the difference was not statistically significant. Injection site haematoma was the most frequently 
reported injection site reaction for both the placebo (3, 0.4%) and all dulaglutide (17, 0.8%) treatment groups. 
Injection site pain (6, 0.3%) and erythema (4, 0.2%) were the next most frequently reported adverse events 
and were only reported in the dulaglutide treatment groups.  
In the AS3 safety set, 63 out of 3342 patients treated with 0.75 mg or 1.5 mg dulaglutide in Phase 2 and 3 
studies for the full duration reported injection site reactions. There was no difference in the percentage (1.9% 
for both) between dulaglutide 1.5- (n=31) and 0.75- (n=32) mg treatment groups. Injection site haematoma, 
by  PT,  was  the  most  frequently  reported  injection  site  reaction  for  both.  One  patient  (dulaglutide  1.5  mg), 
reported a severe TEAE of injection site reaction (injection site rash and injection site swelling and discontinued 
study drug after 107 days of treatment. This patient was negative for treatment emergent dulaglutide ADA. 
Comparisons to other injectable active  comparators (studies GBDA,  GBDB and  GBDD) showed the following 
results: i. In Study GBDA, after 52 weeks of treatment, 14 (5.1%) patients treated with exenatide BID, 14 
(5.0%) patients treated with dulaglutide 0.75 mg, and 8 (2.9%) of patients treated with dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
reported injection site adverse event; the most common was hematoma (PT); ii.  In Study GBDB, after 78 weeks 
of treatment, 4 (0.5%) patients treated with dulaglutide (2 each in the 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg groups) and none 
of the insulin glargine-treated patients reported injection site adverse event; iii. In Study GBDD, after 52 weeks 
of treatment, 4 (1.4%) patients treated with dulaglutide 0.75 mg, 1 (0.3%) patient treated with dulaglutide 1.5 
mg,  and  none  of  the  insulin  glargine-treated  patients  reported  an  injection  site  adverse  event.  Potentially 
immune-mediated injection site AEs are discussed in Immunological events below. 
Generally the rate of injection site reactions appears similar if not less than those previously reported with other 
members of the class. Serious reactions or reactions leading to discontinuations were very rare. The observed 
rates of injection site reactions are presented in the SmPC. 
Cardiovascular Safety 
Increases  in  heart  rate  (HR)  and  variable  effects  on  diastolic  blood  pressure  (DBP)  were  noted  in  clinical 
pharmacology studies with dulaglutide. No clinically meaningful effects on SBP were seen. Due to these early 
findings, both DBP and HR were included among the 4 response measures used in the dose selection and dose 
adaptation criteria in the dose finding Study GBCF. The dulaglutide dose selected was not to increase mean DBP 
by more than 2 mm Hg compared with placebo at the predicted 6-month time point. Likewise, the dulaglutide 
dose selected was not to increase mean HR by more than 5 bpm.  
A comprehensive approach was undertaken to assess CV safety in the dulaglutide clinical development program, 
including: i. The Phase 2 Study GBDN, which assessed the effects of dulaglutide on SBP, DBP, and HR over a 
26-week period in 755 patients with T2DM using 24-hour ABPM (see Pharmacodynamics above); ii. Sitting vital 
sign measurements in the Phase 2 and 3 studies; iii. Serum lipids, CPK, and both quantitative ECG assessments 
of  HR,  PR  interval,  QRS  complex,  QT  interval  and  qualitative  ECG  assessments  of  rhythm  or  conduction 
abnormalities in Phase 2 and 3 studies; iv. Events associated with cardiac arrhythmias in Phase 2 and 3 studies 
identified  by  SMQ  and  compared  in  AS1  and  AS3  to  evaluate  for  clinical  significance  of  potential  numerical 
findings; v. Major adverse CV events (MACE) in Phase 2 and 3 studies.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 132/172 
 
  
  
 
Blood Pressure 
Table 41 presents mean 24-hour SBP measured with ABPM in Study GBDN. In the primary analysis dulaglutide 
1.5 mg significantly decreased SBP from baseline compared to placebo at 16 weeks (difference of -2.8 mm Hg) 
and 26 weeks (difference of -2.7 mm Hg). 
Table  41 Mean 24-Hour Systolic Blood Pressure, Measured with ABPM at 4, 16, and 26 Weeks, Mixed-Model 
Repeated Measures Analysis (Intent-to-Treat Population, Study H9X-MC-GBDN)  
In the safety set AS1, a comparison of dulaglutide to placebo showed significantly greater reductions in mean 
sitting SBP from baseline for dulaglutide group compared to placebo at each time point through 26 weeks. The 
comparison  between  the  dulaglutide  doses  (AS3) showed  not  significantly  different  reductions  in  LS  mean 
sitting SBP from baseline between dulaglutide doses at Weeks 2 to 4 through Week 104. The decrease in SBP 
was maximal by 2 to 4 weeks (difference in mean change from baseline in all dulaglutide: -2.8 mm Hg).  
With regard to DBP, in study GBDN mean 24-hour DBP in the dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg groups were not 
different from placebo at 16 or 26 weeks (Table 42). 
Table  42 Mean 24-Hour Diastolic Blood Pressure, Measured with ABPM at 4, 16, and 26 Weeks, Mixed-Model 
Repeated Measures Analysis (Intent-to-Treat Population, Study H9X-MC-GBDN 
Similar  to  the  findings  of  Study  GBDN,  in  the  integrated  safety  databases  (AS1  and  AS3),  small  non 
significant changes in DBP (LS mean change from baseline <1 mm Hg) were observed with both placebo and all 
dulaglutide through 26 weeks of treatment. These reductions were similar between dulaglutide doses through 
104 weeks of treatment and were not considered clinically relevant.  
Heart rate 
In study GBDN, based on MMRM methodology in the ITT population, mean within group 24-hour HR increased 
significantly for dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg from as early as 4 weeks and continuing to 16 and 26 weeks 
(Table 43).  
Table  43  Mean  24-Hour  Heart  Rate  Measured  with  ABPM  at  4,  16,  and  26  Weeks,  Mixed-Model  Repeated 
Measures Analysis (Intent-to-Treat Population, Study H9X-MC-GBDN) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 133/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
In the integrated analyses of placebo-controlled studies (AS1) there  were no  clinically  meaningful LS mean 
changes  from  baseline  for  HR  in  the  placebo  group.  Increases  in  mean  HR  from  baseline  were  statistically 
significantly greater for dulaglutide compared to placebo at each time point up to 26 weeks. The comparison 
between dulaglutide doses (AS3) showed that LS mean increase was significantly greater for dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
group  compared  with  the  0.75  mg  group  with  the  largest  difference  at  Weeks  2  to  4  (LS  mean  [95%  CI] 
difference: 1.02 [0.51, 1.53]). 
Arrhythmias 
There were no important differences in the incidence of abnormal cardiac rhythms between treatment groups in 
AS1 with the exception of numerically more sinus tachycardia in all dulaglutide (1.8%) compared with placebo 
(0.4%). There were no differences in reporting of any specific arrhythmia between dulaglutide doses. 
Similar  proportions  of  placebo  (0.7%)  and  all dulaglutide-treated  (0.5%) patients  reported  supraventricular 
arrhythmias  over  26  weeks  (AS1).  Likewise,  a  similar  proportion  of  patients  reported  ventricular 
tachyarrhythmias (placebo: 0.7%; all dulaglutide: 0.2%). A larger proportion of patients in the dulaglutide 1.5 
mg than 0.75 mg group reported any supraventricular arrhythmia over the full planned treatment period (1.0% 
and 0.2%) (AS3). There was no dose difference in the reporting of any ventricular tachyarrhythmia (0.2% with 
each dose). Three patients on dulaglutide (dulaglutide 1.5mg: 2; dulaglutide 0.75mg: 1) discontinued due to 
atrial fibrillation and sinus tachycardia but none on placebo, over 26 weeks. There was no difference in the 
reporting of any bradyarrhythmia for placebo versus all dulaglutide (AS1) or between dulaglutide doses (AS3).  
ECG parameters 
QTc Interval. The results of the thorough QT study are discussed in  Secondary pharmacology above. In the 
clinical program there was no evidence  of  QT or QTcF prolongation with dulaglutide compared with placebo 
(AS1) or between dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg (AS3).  
QRS complex. No notable differences in QRS between placebo and dulaglutide (AS1) or between dulaglutide 
0.75 mg and 1.5 mg (AS3) were observed. As with QTc intervals, treatment-emergent abnormal analyses did 
not reveal notable differences in QRS complex between placebo and all dulaglutide (AS1) or between dulaglutide 
doses (AS3).  
Heart  Rate.  Consistent  with  results  of  Study  GBDN  and  office-measured  HR,  in  the  integrated  database, 
increases  in  mean  ECG-derived  HR  from  baseline  were  statistically  significantly  greater  for  all  dulaglutide 
compared with placebo at Week 2 to 16 (LS mean [95% CI] difference: 3.36 [2.49, 4.23]) and Week 26 week 
(LS  mean  [95%  CI]  difference:  3.56  [2.76,  4.35]).  Increases  from  baseline  in  HR  were  observed  for  both 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg at Week 2 to 16 through Week 104 (AS3) which were greater for dulaglutide 1.5 
mg group compared with the 0.75 mg with the largest difference during the first 16 weeks.  
PR Interval. Prolongation of PR interval was described in studies GBCO and GBCK. In Study GBDN small LS mean 
increases from baseline were observed for PR interval at 16 and 26 weeks with both dulaglutide doses that were 
significantly greater than placebo at both the 16- and 26-week time points. The increases in PR interval were not 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 134/172 
 
  
  
 
 
significantly  different  between  the  doses  at  either  time  point.  Amongst  patients  with  a  normal  baseline  PR 
interval, 2% or less developed a treatment-emergent high (>220  msec) PR interval  at  16 or 26 weeks (16 
weeks:2 placebo, 3 dulaglutide 0.75 mg, 9 dulaglutide 1.5 mg; 26 weeks:0 placebo, 4 dulaglutide 0.75 mg, 8 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg).  
In the integrated safety databases, statistically significant LS mean increases in PR interval were observed for all 
dulaglutide versus placebo at both the 16- and 26-week time points (LS mean [95% CI] difference: 2.67 msec 
[1.30, 4.04]; 3.09 msec [1.88, 4.29], respectively). In AS1 a higher proportion of patients in the all dulaglutide 
than placebo group (1.4% and 0.6%) had postbaseline PR interval ≥220 msec on 2 consecutive visits. In AS3, 
increases PR interval from baseline were observed for both dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg treatments groups 
but were not significantly different between doses except at Week 26.  
Atrioventricular  Block  (AVB).  In  Study  GBDN  seventeen  patients  (2.4%)  had  some  form  of  AVB,  with  the 
majority (16 out of 17 patients) having 1st degree AVB (defined as a PR interval >220 msec) and one having 2nd 
degree AVB Mobitz Type 1. Eight of these 17 patients had a PR interval change >30 msec at either Week 16 or 
Week 26. Most of the patients with atrioventricular (AV) conduction abnormalities were in the dulaglutide groups 
(placebo: 2, dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 6; dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 9). 
In the overall Phase 2 and 3 program determined that there were 208 patients (3.5% of the overall program 
population) who had any postbaseline PR interval value ≥220 msec, indicating AVB. The exposure-adjusted 
incidence  rates  for  treatment-emergent  high  PR  interval  were:  dulaglutide  (73  patients,  21.5/1000 
patient-years), exenatide BID (4 patients, 17.9/1000 patient-years), insulin glargine (6 patients, 10.3/1000 
patient-years), metformin (1 patient, 4.9/1000 patient-years), placebo (7 patients, 25.9/1000 patient-years), 
and sitagliptin (7 patients, 11.3/1000 patient-years).  
Thirty-seven patients (placebo: 5 [0.9%]; all dulaglutide: 32 [2.0%]) had some form of treatment-emergent 
AVB. The event reported in all cases with a single exception was 1st degree AVB. One patient (dulaglutide 0.75 
mg) reported Mobitz-1 AVB.  In AS3, more patients with normal conduction at baseline who received dulaglutide 
1.5 mg than 0.75 mg (6.1% and 4.2%) had postbaseline abnormal conduction. Sixty-three dulaglutide-treated 
patients  (dulaglutide  0.75  mg:  24  [1.5%];  dulaglutide  1.5  mg:  39  [2.5%])  had  some  form  of 
treatment-emergent AVB. With the exception of 2 patients, these reports were treatment-emergent 1st degree 
AVB. One patient in each dose group had treatment-emergent 2nd degree Mobitz-1 AVB. In addition, based on 
qualitative ECG review in AS3 3 dulaglutide-treated patients (dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 1; dulaglutide 1.0 mg: 1; 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 1) were identified with treatment-emergent 2nd degree, 3rd degree/complete, or variable 
AVB based. Two reports of treatment-emergent variable or 3rd degree AVBs have been identified in patients 
who received active comparators (exenatide BID: 1; insulin glargine: 1). 
Generally,  a  consistent  finding  in  the  clinical  program  with  dulaglutide  was  a  PR  interval  prolongation  and 
evidence of higher rate of AV conduction abnormalities. However, more serious forms of AV block were very rare 
and,  considering  the  overall  exposure,  is  it  difficult  to  say  whether  dulaglutide  was  different  to  the  active 
comparators. Of note, an effect on PR interval has  also been reported with other members of the class like 
lixisenatide. Information about the effect on PR and AV block are included in section 4.8 of the SmPC.    
Cardiovascular Meta-Analysis 
In accordance with regulatory guidance (FDA 2008; EMEA 2012), the applicant conducted a meta-analysis of 
dulaglutide Phase 2 and 3 clinical study data to exclude a potential unacceptable increase in CV risk.  
The  analysis  included  data  from  9  controlled  clinical  studies  with  different  comparators,  background 
medications, and a broad spectrum of the T2DM population. However, patients with a recent history of clinically 
significant and potentially unstable CV disease were  excluded from  these  studies. In  addition,  patients with 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 135/172 
 
  
  
uncontrolled blood pressure, abnormally elevated serum creatinine, or reduced creatinine clearance or eGFR 
were also excluded from most studies. Therefore, certain groups with high CV risk may not be represented in the 
population  included  in  this  CV  meta-analysis.  There  was  similar  use  of  antihypertensive  and  lipid-lowering 
therapies across groups. 
The primary analysis population included all randomized patients from phase 2 and 3 trials according to the 
treatment to which they were assigned. The censoring date for a patient in the completed studies was the date 
of safety follow-up visit approximately 30 days after the last visit at the end of the treatment period or after early 
discontinuation.  The  primary  analysis  was  repeated  using  the  per-protocol  (PP)  population  and  completer 
population from each study included in the meta-analysis. 
The primary meta-analysis measure was the time to first occurrence (after randomization) of the 4-component 
major  adverse  CV  event  (MACE)  composite  of  death  from  CV  causes,  nonfatal  MI,  nonfatal  stroke,  or 
hospitalization for unstable angina. Study GBDC did not have any patients with an event, so was combined with 
Study GBCF into a single stratum. The primary analysis model included treatment as a fixed effect with only 2 
levels  for  the  factor  (dulaglutide  or  control).The  primary  analysis  model  was  a  Cox  proportional  hazards 
regression model stratified by study (with all phase 2 trials forming one stratum). The model included treatment 
as a fixed effect with only 2 levels for the factor (dulaglutide or control). The primary meta-analysis objective 
was to show the upper bound of the (adjusted) 95% CI of the HR is <1.8. 
A second meta-analysis was planned to be conducted if the first meta-analysis did not exclude a HR of 1.8 when 
a minimum total of 180 patients with adjudicated CV events had been observed including additional data from 
an  on-going  dulaglutide  cardiovascular  outcomes  study.  A  Pocock  spending  function  was  specified  as  the 
method to control the Type I error for multiple analyses; the 95% CI was adjusted accordingly for the primary 
analysis. For secondary analyses, nominal 95% confidence intervals are reported. 
Statistical heterogeneity between the strata was tested by including in the primary analysis model an interaction 
term  between  treatment and  strata  at  alpha  level  0.10.  If  significant  heterogeneity  was  present,  a  random 
effects model was to be used; this model was to include a random term for the treatment effect in each study 
(stratum). A data-based decision on the type of analysis (fixed effects or random effects) is not appropriate as 
the type I error of such a procedure is unknown. The requested random effects analysis was provided. It would 
have been preferred when the adjusted 95% CIs (nominal 98.02% CIs) were provided as for primary analysis 
rather than the nominal 95% CIs. However, the results are consistent with the results from the fixed effects 
model. 
A total of 6010 randomized patients (All Comparators arm: 2125; All Dulaglutide arm: 3885) were included in 
the analysis. Of these, 1228 (20.4%) patients discontinued early before completing the treatment period or the 
safety follow up period without experiencing the 4-component MACE event (All Comparators: 449 [21.1%]; All 
Dulaglutide: 779 [20.1%]). The baseline demographics and cardiovascular risk characteristics were comparable 
between  arms.  Prior  MI  at  baseline  was  slightly  higher  for  the  All  Dulaglutide  group  compared  to  the  All 
Comparator group (3.4% vs. 2.4%, p=.049). 
A total of 51 patients experienced at least one MACE (Table 3.4.45). The results showed that treatment with 
dulaglutide  was  not  associated  with  an  increase  in  the  risk of  experiencing  a  4-component  MACE  endpoint 
compared with control therapies (estimated HR: 0.57; adjusted 98.02% CI: [0.30, 1.10]). The upper bound of 
the  adjusted  2-sided  98.02%  CI  for the  HR  (1.10)  was  less  than  the  FDA-stipulated  limit  of  1.8  for 
pre-submission  (and  also  less than  the  FDA  stipulated  post-submission  limit  of  1.3).  Therefore  the  primary 
objective of the meta-analysis was met.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 136/172 
 
  
  
Table  44  Time-to-Event  Analysis  of  Primary  CV  Endpoint  and  Individual  Components  Without  Adjudicated 
Events after Safety Follow-up Period, Alpha = 0.0198; All Randomized Patients 
Endpoint Component 
Primary 4-Component MACE 
Endpoint 
Death from CV Causes*b 
Nonfatal MI 
Nonfatal Stroke 
Hospitalization for Unstable 
Angina 
All Comparators 
N=2125 
n  (%) 
25 (1.18) 
5 (0.24) 
14 (0.66) 
4 (0.19) 
6 (0.28) 
All Dula_ 
N=3885 
n  (%) 
26 (0.67) 
3 (0.08) 
9 (0.23) 
12 (0.31) 
3 (0.08) 
Hazard Ratio*a Est. 
(adj. 98.02% CI) 
0.57 (0.30, 1.10) 
0.35 (0.07, 1.87) 
0.35 (0.13, 0.95) 
1.61 (0.42, 6.20) 
0.28 (0.05, 1.46) 
Treatment 
Comparison 
p-value*a 
.046 
.119 
.014 
.411 
.054 
Columns may not add up since patients may have had more than one type of event, but patients are counted only once per event type. 
Note: 
Patients are also counted only once for the primary MACE endpoint. 
*a: 
Calculated from a stratified Cox Proportional Hazards regression model: response = treatment. Strata = studies. All phase 2 studies 
form one stratum, GBDC and GBCF form one stratum. When the total number of outcomes is < 10 or zero is in a cell, survival analysis is not 
performed. Instead when the total number of outcomes is < 10 and >= 5 and no zero is in a cell, Mantel-Haenszel odds ratio and p-value by 
Cochran–Mantel–Haenszel test are reported; when the total number of outcomes is < 5 or zero is in a cell, ratio and p-value are not reported. 
*b: 
Death from CV causes is defined as a death resulting from an acute MI, sudden cardiac death, death due to heart failure, death due 
to stroke, and death due to other CV causes.  
The primary analysis (adjusted) was repeated for the PP population. The number of events in the PP population 
was less than in the intent-to-treat (ITT) population. A total of 24 patients (All Comparators: 11 [0.81%]; All 
Dulaglutide: 13 [0.49%]) experienced a 4-component MACE in the 9 studies. There was no significant difference 
between the 2 groups (HR: 0.63; 98.02% CI: [0.24, 1.63]; p=.255). Results of various sensitivity analyses with 
different definitions of the strata, and across various analyses, were consistent with the result of the primary 
analysis.   
Additional endpoints including MACE defined more  narrowly (3-component MACE), or broadly (6-component 
MACE) showed similar results. Evaluation of individual component endpoints showed a significant decrease in 
the risk for the combined coronary revascularization endpoint (estimated HR: 0.44; 95% CI: [0.21, 0.92]). No 
significant  difference  was  observed  for  the  heart  failure  requiring  hospitalization  endpoint,  although  the 
estimated HR was 2.02; 95% CI [0.41, 9.88] (all comparators 2 events vs dulaglutide 7 events). 
The  overall  findings  of  the  CV  meta-analyses  are  reassuring,  although  the  limitations  both  in  terms  of  the 
number  of  events  and  the  exclusion  or  certain  high  risk  groups  like  patients  with  moderate-severe  renal 
impairment or advanced heart failure should be taken into account. Baseline data suggest that >60% were also 
hypertensive and >50% had hyperlipidaemia while 8-9% had history of CV disease with similar distributions 
between groups. . 
All but two individual endpoints were in favour of dulaglutide; only ‘heart failure requiring hospitalisation’ and 
‘nonfatal  stroke’  (without  particularly  attributed  to  any  specific  type)  were  numerically  more  frequent  with 
dulaglutide  than  with  comparator.  There  were  also  5  TIA  events,  2  in  the  dulaglutide  and  3  in  the 
All-comparators groups. Generally, the numbers are small and conclusions are difficult to draw but certainly 
these events will need to be monitored. A large cardiovascular trial (Study GBDJ), with dulaglutide is currently 
ongoing and is expected to provide a clearer picture of its long term CV potential benefits and risks. This is a 
Phase  3,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled  study  with  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  on  a  background 
standard-of-care treatment. Patient enrolment was completed in Q3 2013. During the study, an independent 
data monitoring committee (DMC) performs ongoing reviews of safety data. The Applicant indicated that if any 
safety concerns are raised by the DMC, the Applicant will notify the CHMP as appropriate. Unblinded data will not 
be available until the final analysis, which is scheduled to occur after 1067 patients have experienced CV events 
(CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke) as confirmed by adjudication. The final report for 
this study is expected to be available in Q3 2019 but as the primary endpoint of the study and the study duration 
are event driven, this is an estimate.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 137/172 
 
  
  
 
Renal Safety 
The  clinical  pharmacology  study  (H9X-MC-GBCM)  that  was  conducted  in  renal  patients  is  discussed  in  the 
Pharmacokinetics section above. The single dulaglutide dose was generally tolerated in all renal function groups. 
The  majority  of  adverse  events  were  mild  and  GI  in  nature,  and  clinical  laboratory  assessments,  including 
amylase and lipase, did not worsen following dulaglutide dosing. A Phase 3 study (H9X-MC-GBDX) is currently 
ongoing to assess the effects of dulaglutide treatment over 52 weeks in patients with T2DM and moderate or 
severe CKD.  
The  effects  of  dulaglutide  on  renal  function  both  in  the  overall  population  and  in  the  renal  impairment 
populations, and dulaglutide safety in patients with renal impairment,  were  evaluated in the Phase  2 and 3 
studies. It should be noted, however, that for most Phase 2 and 3 studies, patients with serum creatinine ≥1.5 
mg/dL (males), ≥1.4 mg/dL (females) or eCrCl <60 mL/min were excluded based on label-specific restrictions 
of concomitant medications (for example, metformin) and limited data available on the use of dulaglutide in 
patients with renal impairment at the time of these studies.  
A summary of the renal baseline characteristics of the Phase 2 and 3 type 2 diabetes population is presented 
in Table  45. At  baseline,  88%  (5285  patients)  of  all  randomized  patients  (6005)  had  normal  kidney 
function, 4.4% (265) had eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m2, 3% (181) had macroalbuminuria, and 7.1% (425) had 
eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m2 and/or macroalbuminuria.  
Table  45  Summary  of  Renal  Characteristics  At  Baseline  of  All  Phase  2  and  3  Patients  At  Baseline  (Safety 
Population, Studies GBCF, GBCJ, GBCK, GBCZ, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN) 
*a CKD Stage as determined by adapted CKD-EPI guidelines, using the highest measured value of eGFR (CKD-EPI) and the lowest measured 
value of UACR from the baseline period.  
*b Patients are included in Macroalbuminuria group if UACR > 300 at all measured timepoints during baseline, included in the eGFR (CKD-EPI) 
<60 mL/min/1.73 m² group when that criterion is satisfied at all measured timepoints during baseline, and included in the Renal Impairment 
group if included in either the Macroalbuminia group or the eGFR (CKD-EPI) <60 mL/min/1.73 m² group. 
Dulaglutide vs Placebo 
In placebo-controlled studies, baseline serum creatinine values were similar in placebo and the all dulaglutide 
group. Treatment with dulaglutide up to 26 weeks did not alter serum creatinine values. Baseline mean eGFR 
values were comparable between groups. After treatment, there was a trend toward a greater decrease in eGFR 
in the all dulaglutide group compared to placebo (Table 46). Additional analysis for eGFR calculated using MDRD 
equation showed a borderline significantly higher decrease with dulaglutide compared to placebo (p=0.042).  
Table 46 ANCOVA Analysis of Baseline to Postbaseline Anchor Timepoint of eGFR CKD-EPI By Treatment and 
Anchor  Timepoint,  Observations  Through  26  Weeks  of  the  Planned  Treatment  Period  -  Placebo-Controlled 
Studies with 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg Dulaglutide (Safety Population, Studies GBCF, GBDA,GBDN) (AS1) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 138/172 
 
  
  
 
 
* - Actual timing depending on study, but overall constituting a single anchor time point.  
*a - P-value of difference of LS Means is from an ANCOVA model: log(eGFR CKD-EPI) = Treatment + Study + Treatment*Study + log(Min 
Baseline  eGFR  CKD-EPI)  +  log(Max  Baseline  UACR)  + log(Baseline  HbA1c)  +  log(Baseline  HbA1c)*Treatment  (Type  III  sums  of 
squares). Estimated LSM is EXP(estimated log(eGFR CKD-EPI)).  
In response to treatment with dulaglutide for up to 26 weeks, a lowering of median albuminuria was observed 
in the dulaglutide group compared to the placebo. In the all dulaglutide group, more patients shifted to lower 
UACR values (10.6% including 9.4% shifting  to  normal albuminuria and 1.2% shifting to microalbuminuria) 
compared  to  the  placebo  group  (6.9%  including  6.1%  shifting  to  normal  albuminuria  and  0.8%  shifting  to 
microalbuminuria). Proportions of patients shifting between CKD stages in response to treatment with placebo 
or dulaglutide were comparable between groups (AS1). The majority of patients did not change their CKD stage 
in  either  group  (placebo:  90.1%;  all  dulaglutide:  91.7%).  However,  numerically  lower  proportion  of  the  all 
dulaglutide group had worsened CKD stage compared to placebo (6.6% and 8.4%) but two dulaglutide-treated 
patients shifted from normal to CKD stage 4. 
Dulaglutide 1.5mg vs 0.75mg (AS3) 
In  all  Phase  2  and  3  studies  (treatment  period  26  to  104  weeks),  baseline  serum  creatinine  values  were 
comparable  between  the  0.75  mg  and  1.5  mg  dulaglutide  doses.  No  differences  in  serum  creatinine  values 
(change from baseline) were observed between the 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg dulaglutide groups at 16-26 weeks, at 
52 weeks, or at 78-104 weeks of treatment. In the dulaglutide 1.5 mg group, more patients shifted to lower 
UACR values (10.7% including 9.1% shifting to  normal albuminuria and  1.6%  shifting  to microalbuminuria) 
compared to the 0.75 mg dulaglutide groups (8.5% including 7.5% shifting to normal albuminuria and 1.0% 
shifting to microalbuminuria). 
The majority of patients in both groups were classified under the normal kidney function category at baseline 
(dulaglutide 0.75 mg: 93.3% and dulaglutide  1.5 mg: 92.5%). Based on last  postbaseline observation,  the 
majority of patients did not change their CKD stage in both groups. However, numerically more patients in the 
1.5 mg group had improved their CKD stage compared to dulaglutide 0.75 mg (2.0% vs. 1.4%), and slightly 
fewer patients in the dulaglutide 1.5 mg group had worsened CKD stage (7.2% vs. 7.9%). 
Dulaglutide vs Active Comparators 
In all Phase 2 and 3 studies that evaluated dulaglutide versus an active comparator (treatment period 52 to 104 
weeks), baseline mean serum creatinine levels were comparable between groups. Throughout the treatment 
period, no significant difference was observed in serum creatinine between the all dulaglutide group and the 
active comparator group. Mean baseline eGFR values were similar between groups and no significant difference 
in eGFR was observed throughout the treatment period. Changes in eGFR from baseline were also comparable 
between  dulaglutide  and  active  comparators  throughout  the  treatment  period.  UACR  values  (LS  mean  at 
different anchor timepoints) were slightly but significantly smaller in the all dulaglutide group compared to the 
active comparators group throughout the treatment period. 
Acute Renal Failure (ARF) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 139/172 
 
  
  
 
 
Throughout  Phase  2  and  3  studies,  dulaglutide-treated  patients  who  reported  ARF  included  7  patients  in 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg, 4 patients in dulaglutide 0.75 mg, and 1 patient in dulaglutide 0.5 mg. 
In placebo-controlled studies with both dulaglutide doses through 26 weeks of planned treatment (AS1). SMQs 
searches showed similar numbers of patients in the dulaglutide groups who reported ARF compared to placebo 
(AS1)  [dulaglutide:  2  patients  (0.1%);  placebo:  2  patients  (0.4%)].  No  significant  difference  between 
dulaglutide 0.75 mg and dulaglutide 1.5 mg was also observed in Phase 2 and 3 studies≥ 26-week planned 
treatment duration (AS3). However, numerically more patients treated with dulaglutide 1.5 mg reported ARF 
compared  to  dulaglutide  0.75  mg  (dulaglutide  1.5  mg:  6  patients  [0.4%];  dulaglutide  0.75  mg:  3  patients 
[0.2%]).  
Patients with Renal Dysfunction 
Renal subpopulations from the Phase 2 and 3 dulaglutide clinical studies were analysed to evaluate renal safety 
of  dulaglutide  in  patients  with  various  degrees  of  renal  dysfunction.  As  mentioned,  patients  with  CrCL  <60 
mL/min were mostly excluded from most dulaglutide studies. The GBDN Study excluded patients with eGFR ≤30 
mL/min/1.73m2, and the GBDD Study excluded patients with creatinine clearance <60 mL/min if  they were 
receiving metformin.   
In the remaining patients with renal dysfunction three subpopulations were identified (Table 45 above) as 1) 
having  eGFR  <60  mL/min/1.73m2  (n=265),  2)  having  macroalbuminuria  (UACR  >300  mg/g  n=181),  or  3) 
having eGFR<60 mL/min/1.73m2 and/or macroalbuminuria (renal impairment subpopulation; n=425 [7.1%]).  
Treatment with dulaglutide did not alter  significantly serum  creatinine or eGFR in all 3 renal subpopulations 
compared to placebo. However, dulaglutide was associated with a small but significant decrease in albuminuria 
compared to placebo. Similar to the overall T2DM population, the most frequently reported TEAEs in the renal 
impairment  subpopulation  (renal  subpopulation  3)  were  GI  disorders  with  more  dulaglutide  than 
placebo-treated patients reporting these events. Subgroup analysis for patients with renal impairment did not 
show  any  treatment  by  subgroup  interactions  for  TEAE  terms  except  for  infections  and  infestations  (lower 
incidence in the renal population).  
With  regard  to  serious  adverse  events,  the  incidence  of  SAEs  was  numerically  higher  in  the  all 
dulaglutide-treated patients (5  patients, 5.1%) compared  to placebo  (1 patient,  2.5%)  in  AS1.   In AS3 the 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg- and 0.75 mg-treated patients reported a similar number of SAEs (10 patients [8.1%] and 12 
patients [10.8%]). Dulaglutide treatment of patients with T2DM and renal impairment had generally similar 
effects on laboratory and cardiac parameters as in the rest of patients.  
Overall, there is no clear evidence that dulaglutide has a detrimental effect on renal function in the groups that 
were  studied.  Some  positive  findings  were  noted  with  regard  to  albuminuria  but  their  long  term  clinical 
importance  is  difficult  to  determine.  However,  a  limitation  is,  as  previously  mentioned,  the  lack  of  data  in 
patients  with  more  advanced  renal  disease.  Therefore,  the  safety  of  dulaglutide  in  these  groups  remains 
uncertain. The SmPC has been updated to reflect more accurately the current limitations and advise that in 
patients with severe renal failure and end stage disease dulaglutide use is not recommended. 
Hepatic Safety  
The effect of hepatic impairment on dulaglutide PK was examined in Study GBDO in patients with stable hepatic 
impairment  to  that  of  healthy  subjects  (see  Pharmacokinetics  section  above).  To  fully  evaluate  the  hepatic 
safety of dulaglutide in the clinical program, samples were collected through the Phase 2 and 3 studies to assess 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 140/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
hepatic  parameters:  ALT,  AST,  total  bilirubin,  direct  bilirubin,  GGT,  and  AP.  Integrated  analyses  of  adverse 
events potentially associated with hepatic injury in these studies were also conducted using SMQs.  
Across  the  Phase  2  and  Phase  3  program,  dulaglutide  was  generally  not  shown  to  increase  transaminases, 
bilirubin, or markers of cholestasis. The proportion of patients having values exceeding thresholds of concern 
was comparable between placebo- and all dulaglutide-treated patients and between the dulaglutide 0.75 mg 
and 1.5 mg dose groups. Moreover, there were no differences between treatment groups in the proportion of 
patients shifting to higher categories from baseline to postbaseline. 
Two cases in the overall safety database fulfilled the criteria for hepatotoxicity/potential drug induced liver injury 
using Hy’s criteria (ALT and/or AST ≥3x ULN and total bilirubin >2x ULN, with AP <2x ULN). In one patient 
(Placebo/Dulaglutide  1.5  mg)  a  finding  of  high  baseline  GGT  was  consistent  with  a  preexisting  hepatic 
abnormality and possibly associated with alcohol. The second case (Dulaglutide 0.75 mg) was concluded to be 
related to acute hepatitis E.  Two additional patients had AST or ALT >5x ULN (dulaglutide 0.75 mg) during 
clinical  studies.  A  persistent  elevation  of  ALT  or  AST  (≥3x  ULN  during  at  least  3  consecutive 
visits/measurements)  was  observed  in  6  cases  (placebo:  1;  sitagliptin:  2;  dulaglutide  0.75  mg:  2; 
placebo/dulaglutide 1.5 mg: 1). 
Three cases of serious hepatic-related events were retrieved from LSS and the clinical studies database. One 
case  concerns  a  fatal  event  of  hepatic  failure.  The  other  events  included  the  patient  with  acute  hepatitis  E 
described above and a case reported as hepatitis (apparently not viral) accompanied by AST >21x ULN. The fatal 
case  concerned  a  subject  with  preexisting  alcoholic  cirrhosis  in  the  hepatic  PK  study  GBDO  which  the 
investigator considered the death unrelated to dulaglutide.  
Overall, there is no evidence that dulaglutide can adversely affect hepatic function and as shown by study GBDO 
hepatic impairment is unlikely to have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of dulaglutide. The proposed 
SmPC does not include any relevant information or recommendations. Based on the overall evidence and the PK 
data this is accepted. 
Malignancies 
The databases of the Phase 2 and 3 clinical studies were queried for events contained in the malignant and 
unspecified tumours (narrow) SMQ. The search criteria included terms for pancreatic and thyroid cancers and 
neoplasms. Table 47 summarizes reported events by anatomical location for placebo, each active comparator, 
and dulaglutide. 
Table  47  Exposure  Adjusted  Incidence  of  Patients  with  Treatment-Emergent  Malignancies  and  Unspecified 
Tumors, All Postbaseline Observations Through Safety Follow-up – Phase 2 and 3 Studies (Safety Population, 
Studies GBCF, GBCJ, GBCK, GBCZ, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN) 
Location of Cancer 
Cancer Type 
Patient Year Exposure  
(pt-yrs) 
Number (%) of patients 
with any malignancy or 
unspecified tumor c 
Thyroid  
Thyroid neoplasm  
Thyroid cancer 
Breast 
Breast cancer 
Breast cancer in situ 
Breast cancer metastatic 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Number (%) of Patients [Number of Events/1000 Patient-Years of Exposure] 
Placebo  
(N=703) 
284 
7 (1.0) [24.6] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Metformin 
(N=268) 
227 
Active Comparator 
Sitagliptin 
(N=439)a 
637 
Exenatide  
(N=276) 
236 
Insulin Glarg. 
(N=558) 
621 
Dulaglutide 
(N=4006)b 
3531 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
9(2.1)[14.1]  3(1.1)[12.7] 
12(2.2)[19.3] 
48 (1.2)d,e 
[13.6] 
1(0.2)[1.57]  1(0.4)[4.23] 
1 (0.4) [4.23] 
1 (0.2) [1.57] 
0 
0 
0 
1(0.2)[1.57] 
0 
1 (0.2) [1.57] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2(0.4)[3.22] 
2 (0.4) [3.22] 
0 
2(0.4)[3.22] 
2 (0.4) [3.22] 
0 
0 
7(0.2)d[1.98] 
5 (0.1) [1.42] 
3 (0.1)h [0.85] 
6 (0.1) [1.70] 
4 (0.1) [1.13] 
1(<0.1)f [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
Page 141/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1(0.2)[1.57]  1(0.4)[4.23] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1(0.2)[1.57] 
1 (0.2) 1.57] 
0 
1(0.2)[1.57] 
1 (0.2) [1.57] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.2) [1.61] 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.2) [1.61] 
0 
4(0.6)[14.08] 
0 
2 (0.3) [7.04] 
2 (0.3) [7.04] 
0 
0 
10(0.2)[2.83] 
7 (0.2)e [1.98] 
0 
0 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.4) [4.23] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.2) [1.57] 
0 
2(0.5)[3.14] 
2 (0.5) [3.14] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (0.4)[3.22] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (0.4) [3.22] 
0 
0 
0 
2(0.4) [3.22] 
1 (0.2) [1.61] 
1 (0.2) [1.61] 
3 (0.5) [4.83] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) [3.52] 
0 
0 
(0.1) [3.52] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (0.3) [7.04] 
1 (0.1)f [3.52] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1(<0.1)[0.28] 
0 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
11(0.3)[3.12] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
0 
2 (<0.1) [0.57] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
0 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
2 (<0.1) [0.57] 
2(<0.1)[0.57] 
2 (<0.1) [0.57] 
0 
12(0.3)[3.40] 
0 
Skin 
Basal cell carcinoma 
Neoplasm skin 
Malignant melanoma 
Skin cancer 
Squamous cell carcinoma of 
skin 
Bowen’s disease 
Ear, nose, or throat  
Laryngeal cancer stage 3 
Vocal cord neoplasm 
Gastrointestinal  
Tongue neoplasmg  
Tongue carcinoma stage 1  
Oesoph. adenocarcinoma1  
Colon cancer   
Rectal neoplasm   
GI stromal tumour   
Gastric neoplasm   
Rectal cancer   
Gallbladder cancer   
Gastric cancer   
Pancreatic carcinoma   
Lung  
Lung neoplasm  
Non-small cell cancer of lung  
Other  
Non-secretory adenoma of  
pituitary  
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia  
Prostate cancer  
Prostate cancer stage 0  
Uterine cancer  
Liposarcoma  
Squamous cell carcinoma  
Adenocarcinoma  
Testicular seminoma (pure)  
Transitional cell carcinoma  
Multiple myeloma  
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma  
Vaginal neoplasm  
B-cell small lymphocytic 
lymphoma 
Renal neoplasm  
0 
a Total sitagliptin exposure includes 124 patients who received placebo during the first 26 weeks of Study GBCF. 
b Total dulaglutide exposure contains 121 patients who received placebo during the first 26 weeks of Study GBDA. 
c Patients were included in this table if they reported events contained in the malignant and unspecified tumors (narrow) standardized MedDRA query in Phase 2 and 
3 studies. Patients who participated in crossover treatments and reported multiple qualifying events may be counted in more than 1 treatment group. 
d One dulaglutide-treated patient (GBDB-202-2102) reported both a thyroid neoplasm and thyroid cancer. 
e One dulaglutide-treated patient (GBDA-033-1609) reported separate events of basal cell carcinoma and liposarcoma. The patient is counted in each location of cancer 
but only once in the total number of dulaglutide-treated patients with any malignancy or unspecified tumor. 
f Reported in safety follow-up period or after study discontinuation. 
g Tongue neoplasm (Patient GBCF-013-0715) was reported as a mild tongue lesion that resolved within 1 month of initial report. 
h Reported after discontinuation from study, but determined by Lilly to be preexisting 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
2 (<0.1) [0.57] 
0 
1(<0.1)e[0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.4) [4.23] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.2) [1.61] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.2) [1.61] 
1 (0.2) [1.61] 
0 
1 (0.2) [1.57] 
0 
1 (0.2) [1.57] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) [3.52] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2(0.5)[3.14]  1(0.4)[4.23] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (<0.1) [0.28] 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
The analyses revealed similar incidence of malignant and unspecified tumours across treatment groups. Most 
types of cancer and unspecified tumours were reported by only one or two patients. Only breast cancer, basal 
cell carcinoma, thyroid neoplasm, and thyroid cancer were reported by more than 2 patients in any treatment 
group.   
Thyroid  malignancies  and  neoplasms  were  reported  by  1  patient  (0.2%)  who  received  sitagliptin,  1  patient 
(0.4%) who received exenatide BID, 2 patients (0.4%) who received insulin glargine and 7 (0.2%) who received 
any dose  of dulaglutide. No placebo or metformin-treated patients reported thyroid malignancies or  thyroid 
neoplasms.  Three  (3)  thyroid  cancers  have  been  described  in  the  clinical  trial  database  –  all  in  dulaglutide 
treated patients (see also Thyroid section above).  
Two pancreatic carcinomas were reported for patients who received dulaglutide in the completed Phase 2 and 3 
studies. These patients had a rather short duration (≤3 year) of diabetes and baseline BMI <25 kg/m2. The first 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 142/172 
 
  
  
 
 
patient (GBCZ-117- 1712) was diagnosed with a large, non resectable tumour 1 week after his one and only 
dose  of  dulaglutide  0.75  mg  suggesting  that  was  present  prior  to  use  of  dulaglutide.  The  second  patient 
(GBDA-012-0555) was found to have a large tumour that consumed most of the body and tail of her pancreas 
after approximately 5 months of therapy with dulaglutide.  
The two cases of pancreatic carcinomas, taking into account the limited exposure to dulaglutide by the time of 
diagnosis, are  rather unlikely to be causally related  to  dulaglutide. The thyroid neoplasms and the cases of 
cancer are more of concern but the numbers are small and the overall incidence with dulaglutide was not greater 
than  the  other  active  comparators.    No  patients  who  received  placebo  or  any  active  comparator  reported 
pancreatic cancers. 
Weight Loss 
The effects of dulaglutide on body weight and BMI as efficacy parameters are presented in the Efficacy section 
above. From a safety perspective, significant weight loss was explored in dulaglutide-treated patients in the 
Phase 2 and 3 studies (AS6). A total of 77 (2%) dulaglutide-treated patients showed the greatest weight loss. 
These patients had 6% reduction in median body weight from baseline by 4 weeks, 9% by 12 to 14 weeks, and 
12% by 26 weeks. The remaining patients lost a median of approximately 1% of their body weight through 26 
weeks. 
At each time point, a numerically larger percentage of patients with the greatest weight loss compared to the 
rest  reported  TEAEs.  As  with  the  overall  dulaglutide-treated  population,  the  most  frequent  TEAEs  were  GI 
disorders, namely nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea. The events of special interest reported for patients with 
greatest weight loss were almost exclusively GI disorders, with the exception of one report of cholelithiasis and 
one report of acute renal failure. The rate of early discontinuation from studies in patients with the greatest 
weight  loss  was  generally  lower  than  the  rest  at  each  time  point  (although  it  increased  over  time  for  both 
groups).  
Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory measurements were performed for haematology, chemistry, urinalysis, and special analytes 
(for example, dulaglutide anti-drug antibodies [ADA]) at time points specified in each protocol in the dulaglutide 
Phase  2  and  3  studies.  The  results  associated  with special  topics  were  presented  in  the  relevant  sections 
(Adverse  events  of  special  interest)  above.  In  addition,  the  effect  of  dulaglutide  on  lipids  and  creatine 
phosphokinase  (CPK)  were  also  assessed.  Analyses  of  CPK  from  Phase  2  and  3  studies  showed  no  notable 
differences between placebo and all dulaglutide (AS1) or between dulaglutide 0.75 and 1.5 mg (AS3).   
With  regard  to  lipids,  in  AS1  small  decreases  in  total  cholesterol,  LDL-C,  triglycerides,  and  total 
cholesterol/HDL-C were observed for all dulaglutide compared to placebo at 16 to 26 weeks of treatment. For 
the last postbaseline observation of each of these analytes, the LS mean reduction was statistically significant 
for  all  dulaglutide  compared  with  placebo.  There  was  a  small  increase  in  HDL-C  for  both  placebo  and  all 
dulaglutide, but the difference was not statistically different. 
Generally, it is reassuring that dulaglutide appears to have a small but overall positive effect on lipid parameters. 
However,  baseline  lipid  values  do  not  indicate  a  particularly  dyslipidaemic  population  as  one  would  have 
expected, especially when it is reported (as in the CV meta-analysis) that more than 50% of the patients were 
hyperlipidaemic. The Applicant clarified that the definition of ‘Hyperlipidaemia’ was mostly based on medical 
history,  not  necessarily  confirmed  by  lipid  tests.  The  vast  majority  of  patients  with  such  history  were  on 
lipid-lowering treatments and most of them had no raised lipid levels, while an approximate 18% with no history 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 143/172 
 
  
  
 
 
were found to have abnormal lipids. Overall, around 43% of all patients in the CV meta-analysis had abnormal 
lipid  profiles  at  baseline.  The  distribution  of  patients  in  the  different  categories  appears  consistent  across 
treatment groups. 
Safety in special populations 
The safety profile of dulaglutide was reviewed based on TEAEs and SAEs for placebo and all dulaglutide (AS1) 
and dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg (AS3)  for the following intrinsic factors: age, sex, baseline BMI,  race, 
ethnicity, and duration of diabetes. Treatment-by-subgroup interactions with p<0.10 were considered to be of 
interest. 
Age and baseline BMI subgroup-by-treatment interactions yielded the results of greatest clinical interest. For 
most other subgroups, the interactions reflected effects similar to those observed for the overall population. 
Within the subgroups (for example, race or ethnicity), the incidence of TEAEs typically varied by less than 5% 
across the subgroup-by-treatment combinations. When larger differences were observed within subgroups, the 
number of patients representing the subgroup populations was typically small. These observations suggest that 
these interactions are likely to be of little clinical relevance 
Age 
Table 48 shows the age distribution in Phase 2 and 3 studies.  
Table  48 Age (Baseline Characteristics) in All Patients in Phase 2 and 3 Studies (Safety Population, Studies 
GBCF, GBCJ, GBCK, GBCZ, GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, GBDN) 
Variable  
Age (yrs) 
Number of Patients  
Mean  
SD  
Minimum  
Median  
Maximum  
Age Group, n (%) 
< 65 (yrs) 
>= 65 (yrs)  
Age Group, n (%) 
< 75 (yrs) 
>= 75 (yrs)  
Age Group, n (%) 
< 65 (yrs) 
>= 65 and < 75 (yrs) 
>= 75 and < 85 (yrs)  
>= 85 (yrs)  
All Randomized 
Phase 2 
(N=1329) 
All Randomized 
Phase 3 
(N=4676) 
All Randomized 
Phase 2 and 3 
(N=6005) 
All Randomized Phase 2 
and 3 on dulaglutide 
(N=4006) 
1329 
56.06 
10.36 
25.72 
56.67 
86.89 
4676 
56.11 
9.91 
19.81 
56.67 
86.55 
1078 (81.1) 
251 (18.9) 
3819 (81.7) 
857 (18.3) 
1297 (97.6) 
32 (2.4) 
1078 (81.1) 
219 (16.5) 
31 (2.3) 
1 (<0.1) 
4590 (98.2) 
86 (1.8) 
3819 (81.7) 
771 (16.5) 
84 (1.8) 
2 (<0.1) 
6005 
56.10 
10.01 
19.81 
56.67 
86.89 
4897 (81.5) 
1108 (18.5) 
5887 (98.0) 
118 (2.0) 
4897 (81.5) 
990 (16.5) 
115 (1.9) 
3 (<0.1) 
4006 
56.11 
9.97 
19.81 
56.63 
86.89 
3283 ( 82.0) 
723 ( 18.0) 
3930 ( 98.1) 
76 ( 1.9) 
3283 ( 82.0) 
647 ( 16.2) 
73 ( 1.8) 
3 ( <0.1) 
No subgroup-by-treatment interactions were observed within the <65 years versus ≥65 years group or <75 
years versus ≥75 years group comparisons of placebo and all dulaglutide (AS1). In AS3, some interactions were 
observed. The most notable difference was for decreased appetite for which there was a higher incidence with 
dulaglutide 1.5 mg than 0.75 mg in both the <65 years group (7.3% and 5.5%, respectively) and ≥65 years 
groups (9.6% and 3.2%). The incidence of TEAEs was similar for patients <75 years who received dulaglutide 
0.75 mg and 1.5 mg but whereas in patients ≥75 years there were more AEs with dulaglutide 1.5 mg than 0.75 
mg (90.6% and 66.7%). The GI disorders SOC, nervous system disorders SOC, and decreased appetite PT were 
primary contributors to the differences between subgroups (although for none p was <0.10). 
Body Mass Index 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 144/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Across Phase 2 and 3 studies, 401 (279 received dulaglutide) patients in Phase 2 and 3 studies had baseline BMI 
<25 kg/m2, 1816 (1212 received dulaglutide) had ≥25 and <30 kg/m2, 1979 (1297 received dulaglutide) had 
≥30 and <35 kg/m2, and 1809 (1218 received dulaglutide) had ≥35 kg/m2.  
In AS1, patients lower BMI groups had a lower reporting of TEAEs overall among the placebo than all dulaglutide 
group (<25 kg/m2: 59.0% and 71.0%, respectively; ≥25 and <30 kg/m2: 56.7% and 68.3%). Patients in the 
higher BMI groups reported TEAEs at a similar incidence for both placebo and all dulaglutide. In AS3, across 
the BMI subgroups, nausea was  reported  at a lower  incidence  among the dulaglutide 0.75 mg than 1.5 mg 
groups. The magnitude of differences between dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg were greatest at the lower BMIs. 
For patients in the higher BMI groups, the difference in incidence of nausea was less pronounced for dulaglutide 
0.75 mg and 1.5 mg.  
Other subgroups 
Safety in patients with renal dysfunction is discussed in the Renal safety subsection above. 
There  were  7  pregnancies  in  completed  studies  in  the  dulaglutide  clinical  program.  Five  occurred  during 
dulaglutide treatment and 2 during active comparator treatment (insulin glargine; sitagliptin). For 5 of the 7 
pregnancies,  women  were using  a  non-hormonal  method  of  contraception  and  2  women  were  using  oral  or 
injectable  hormonal contraceptives  in  combination  with  other  contraceptive  methods.  Fetal  exposure  was 
restricted to the first trimester in all cases. Two of the pregnancies were voluntarily terminated. The other 5 
pregnancies  resulted  in  live  births.  No  complications  were  reported  for  infants.  For  one  mother mild 
hypertension,  cholestasis,  and hyperglycaemia  were  reported.  No  other  maternal  complications  were 
observed.  
Overall, the subgroup analyses did not identify any specific group at much higher risk of major complications. 
However, as previously discussed, there is concern about the small number of patients >75 years in the studies, 
especially when there is some evidence of higher AE reporting rate in this group and greater with dulaglutide 
1.5mg than with the lower dose.  
Immunological events 
Anti-drug Antibodies 
The  immunogenicity  testing  strategy  for  the  dulaglutide  program  was  based  on  the  use  of  a  solid  phase 
extraction  with  acid  dissociation  (SPEAD)  enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay  (ELISA)  format,  and  a 
cell-based  assay  developed  to  detect  neutralizing  ADA  (dulaglutide-specific  assay;  nsGLP-1-specific  assay). 
Blood samples from  patients in the  Phase 2 and  3  studies were collected and assayed  for dulaglutide ADA. 
Samples with treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA were then tested for neutralizing activity against dulaglutide 
and for their potential to bind native GLP-1 (nsGLP-1 cross-reactivity). Lastly, samples with cross-reactivity to 
nsGLP-1 were further tested for neutralizing activity against nsGLP-1.  
At baseline a total of 148 samples had detected dulaglutide ADA, approximately 3% for both the dulaglutide and 
active comparator treatment groups. These results reflect the background predose assay reactivity in the Phase 
2 and 3 study population included in the studies. One patient (dulaglutide 1.5 mg treatment group) who had 
ADA at baseline had prior exposure to a GLP-1 receptor agonist; 5 other patients with prior exposure to GLP-1 
receptor agonist did not have ADA at baseline. The baseline ADA titers for samples from these groups were 
generally between 1:2 and 1:16. High titers (≥1:128) were seen  at baseline in 2 patients from the  “other 
comparator” arm in Study GBCF. Neither of these patients had prior exposure to a GLP-1 receptor agonist. 
Post baseline, the incidence of treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA in dulaglutide-treated patients ranged from 
0 (at any dose in Study GBCJ and Study GBCZ) to a maximum of 3.7% (Study GBDB patients randomized to the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 145/172 
 
  
  
0.75  mg  dulaglutide  dose).  Review  of  the  data  for  all  post  baseline  observations  for  the  “All  dulaglutide” 
treatment  group  across  the  Phase  2  and  3  trials,  showed  that  64  (1.6%)  of  the  patients  developed 
treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA at least once versus 8 (0.7%) patients in the other comparator treatment 
group (Table 49). Nine dulaglutide-treated patients with treatment-emergent ADA had detectable ADA prior to 
exposure. Four 4 patients had high (≥1:128) treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA titers and none of them had 
detectable ADA at baseline. One patient had progressive increases in antibody titer over time, but remained in 
the low range until the completion of the trial. 
Table  49  Summary  of  Patients  with  Treatment-Emergent  Dulaglutide  Anti-Drug  Antibodies  -  All  Results 
Available Postbaseline through Follow-Up Period (Safety Population, Studies GBCF, GBCJ, GBCK, GBDZ, GBDA, 
GBDB, GBDC, GBDD, and GBDN) 
Abbreviations: ADA = anti-drug antibody; Dula = dulaglutide; N = total number of patients in specified treatment group; n = number of patients 
in specified category; nsGLP1 = native sequence GLP1; TE = treatment-emergent.  
Note: All_Dula refers to all dulaglutide treatment groups combined. Exenatide group is from study GBDA exclusively. Other Comparator is any 
non-dulaglutide assigned treatment except exenatide,  including placebo. Patients  in  GBDA who received Placebo initially and  subsequently 
received Dulaglutide are included in both the 'Other Comparator' group and the 'All_Dula' group, with treatment-emergence assessed relative 
to original baseline, in each case. Denominator for percent (%) is the number of patients with postbaseline test result for Dula ADA.  
Note: Placebo and active comparator patients in studies GBCF, GBDA, and GBDN were tested for ADA. Active comparator patients  in studies 
GBDB, GBDC, and GBDD were not requested to be tested for ADA, but for some patients testing occurred. In addition to placebo and sitagliptin 
patients required by protocol to be tested in studies GBCF, GBDA, and GBDN, N for 'Other Comparator' includes any active comparator patients 
from GBDB, GBDC, and GBDD for whom ADA testing was performed, and results from these tests are included in the table.  
*a - All patients with at least one test result for Dula ADA (Detected or Not Detected) at any time during postbaseline, including post-treatment 
follow-up visit.  
*b - A patient is considered to have TE Dula ADA if the patient has at least one titer that is treatment-emergent relative to baseline, defined as 
a 4-fold or greater increase in titer from baseline measurement. To assess treatment-emergence, baseline titer is imputed if unavailable (1:1 if 
baseline Dula ADA test is missing or 'Not Detected'; 1:2 if baseline Dula ADA test result was 'Detected' with no titer available).  
Of the 64 dulaglutide patients with treatment-emergent ADA, 55 had follow-up testing. Of the 47 patients who 
developed treatment-emergent ADA during the treatment period, 2 patients were not tested in the follow-up 
period,  24  patients  still  exhibited  treatment  emergent  ADA  in  the  safety  follow-up  period  (an  indication  of 
“persistent” immune response) and 21 patients demonstrated reverse seroconversion (a possible indication of 
“intermittent” dulaglutide ADA during the exposure  period that was not present upon discontinuation of the 
study drug).  
No dose effect was observed on the incidence of treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA. The treatment emergent 
dulaglutide  ADA  seen  with  dulaglutide  1.5  mg  treatment  (26  patients  had  detected  ADA  [1.5%])  was 
comparable to that seen with 0.75 mg (36 patients had detected ADA [2.08%]).  
As described above patient samples with treatment-emergent ADA were also assayed to identify their potential 
specificity for nsGLP-1 molecule. Among the 64 patients treated with dulaglutide and having ADA, 36 patients 
developed nsGLP-1 cross-reactive (binding) antibodies, 4 patients had nsGLP neutralizing ADA and 2 patients 
had both nsGLP-1 cross-reactive (binding) and neutralizing antibodies (Table 49 above).  
In  study  Study  GBDA  patients  in  the  exenatide  group  were  tested  for  exenatide  and  dulaglutide 
treatment-emergent  ADA  as  well  as  cross-reactive  antibodies  against  nsGLP-1  and  neutralizing  antibodies 
against dulaglutide and nsGLP-1. Of the 276 exenatide-treated patients, 130 (47.1%) had detected exenatide 
ADA during the study. 123 patients (44.6%) had treatment emergent exenatide ADA as determined by at least 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 146/172 
 
  
  
 
 
4-fold  postbaseline  increase  in  titer.  A  total  of  14  patients  (5.2%)  in  the  exenatide  group  developed 
treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA. Importantly, all exenatide patients with treatment-emergent dulaglutide 
ADA also had exenatide ADA. This indicates that the observed dulaglutide ADA activity in patients exposed to 
exenatide may be related to cross-reactivity of anti-exenatide with exenatide and dulaglutide (shared epitopes). 
Two of these patients were previously exposed to a GLP-1 receptor agonist. There were no apparent clinical 
safety consequences related to these cross-reactive antibodies. 
Overall, the number of patients who developed anti-dulaglutide antibodies during therapy was small, and in a 
much  lower  rate  than  those  reported  with  the  other  three  currently  licensed  GLP-1  receptor  agonists.  The 
incidence was higher than in patients treated with placebo or non-GLP-1 comparators (1.6% versus 0.7%) but 
very few patients had high titers. There was no clear relation with dose level. Approximately half (0.9% of the 
overall population) had dulaglutide neutralizing ADA but their impact on glycaemic control, at least as the Phase 
3  data  suggest  (see  Efficacy  section)  was  small  and  inconsistent.  There  were  four  patients  with  nsGLP-1 
neutralizing  ADA.  The  patients  had  no  hypersensitivity  or  injection  suite  reactions.  There  was  also  no  clear 
evidence of an adverse impact on glycaemic control. 
Hypersensitivity TEAEs 
TEAEs  indicating  potential  hypersensitivity  reactions  resulting  from the  systemic  immune  response  were 
assessed  using  specific  SMQs  (Anaphylactic  Reaction, Angioedema  or  Severe  Cutaneous  Adverse  Reaction 
narrow terms). 
In patients randomized to placebo or dulaglutide in all Phase 2 and 3 placebo-controlled studies (up to 26 weeks 
of  treatment)  the  number  of  those  with  a  hypersensitivity  adverse  event  was small  (12  out  of  2916)  and 
balanced across the placebo (5 [0.7%]) and dulaglutide- (7 [0.3%]) treated patients. Urticaria, was the most 
frequently  reported  TEAE  for  placebo  (2,  0.3%)  and  all  dulaglutide  (5,  0.2%)  treatment  groups.  The 
remaining hypersensitivity reactions occurred in ≤0.1% of the patients and included lip swelling, face oedema, 
pharyngeal oedema, and face swelling.  
In AS3 data up to 104 weeks showed more dulaglutide 0.75 mg treated patients (13, 0.8%) than dulaglutide 1.5 
mg treated patient (3, 0.2%) reporting systemic hypersensitivity adverse events. For both doses, urticaria was 
again the most frequently reported AE and was the only PT reported in the dulaglutide 1.5 mg treatment group. 
There were 3 patients that had either a severe hypersensitivity adverse event or had an adverse event that was 
considered to be of special interest: Patient GBCF-302-4565 (Stevens Johnson syndrome; dulaglutide 0.75 mg), 
Patient GBCF-701-6713 (Anaphylactic shock; dulaglutide 0.75 mg); Patient GBCJ-001-0101 (Severe urticaria; 
dulaglutide 1.0/2.0 mg). 
Across all dulaglutide doses in the Phase 2 and 3 studies, 19 (0.5%) patients experienced at least one potential 
hypersensitivity TEAE. None of them were positive for treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA suggesting that the 
appearance  of  treatment-emergent  dulaglutide  ADA  in  patient’s  serum  has  a  very  low potential  for  causing 
systemic hypersensitivity adverse events.  
Generally hypersensitivity reactions were rare with a rate similar to placebo, and no apparent association with 
the  presence  of  anti-dulaglutide  antibodies.  Most  common  was  urticaria.  However,  there  were  3  cases  with 
severe reactions although a clear causal relationship with dulaglutide exposure, at least for the two of them, is 
difficult  to  establish.  In  the  first  case  dulaglutide  had  been  administered  for  21  months  before  the  patient 
developed moderate serious erythema multiforme with bullous changes after receiving oxacillin, which has been 
associated with such events.  In the second case ‘anaphylactic shock’ moderate in severity and related to food 
was reported in a 46 years old female with previously reported food allergy, urticaria and allergic dermatitis 
while on dulaglutide for 32 weeks together with various other medications. None of the above two patients had 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 147/172 
 
  
  
anti-dulaglutide antibodies. In the third case an adverse event of severe urticaria was reported after 7 days on 
therapy with dulaglutide. 
Potentially Immune-Mediated Injection Site Adverse Events 
Across all dulaglutide doses in the Phase 2 and 3 studies, 20 patients (0.5%) experienced at least one potentially 
immune-mediated  injection  site  adverse  event.  Across  the  dulaglutide  treatment  groups  from  the 
placebo-controlled Phase 2 and 3 studies (AS2), 10 (0.5%) of 2213 patients treated with dulaglutide had an 
injection site reaction that was potentially immune mediated. There were no such reports in the placebo group. 
Injection site erythema (4 patients, 0.2%) was the most frequently reported reaction. Injection site-irritation (3 
patients, 0.1%) and pruritus (3 patients, 0.1%) were the next most frequently reported adverse events. The 
remaining adverse events (induration and rash) occurred in ≤0.1% of the dulaglutide-treated patients.  
In AS3 There was no significant difference in the incidence of patients with these events between dulaglutide 1.5 
mg treatment group (11 patients, 0.7%) and the 0.75 mg (8 patients, 0.5%) treatment group.  
To  assess  the  possible  relationship  between  potentially  immune-mediated injection  site  adverse  events  and 
treatment-emergent  dulaglutide  ADA,  patients  were  also  assessed  for  the  presence  of  treatment-emergent 
dulaglutide ADA.  Of the 20 patients with at least one potentially immune-mediated injection site adverse event 
across all dulaglutide doses in the Phase 2 and 3 studies, two had also treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA. 
Three of the 20 patients, none with treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA, reported severe potentially immune 
mediated injection site adverse event.  
Patients  with  treatment-emergent  dulaglutide  ADA  had  significantly  higher  incidence  of  immune-mediated 
injection  site  adverse  events  (3.1%;  2  of  64  patients)  compared  to  patients  who  did  not  develop 
treatment-emergent dulaglutide ADA (0.5%; 18 of 3843 patients); one more patient with treatment-emergent 
dulaglutide ADA had application site erythema considered by Lilly as potentially immune mediated injection site 
adverse  event.  Two  of  the  5  dulaglutide-treated  patients  who  had  high  or  progressive  antibody  titers,  had 
potentially immune mediated injections site adverse events or other possibly related events.  
Immunotoxicity 
Part of the dulaglutide molecule corresponds to the constant (Fc) part of an IgG4 antibody (heavy chain). The 
type IgG4 was selected because its interaction with other parts of the immune system is low; e.g., IgG4 does not 
induce complement activation. Furthermore, the Applicant states that certain positions in the antibody-like part 
of the dulaglutide molecule were changed to reduce binding to Fc receptors on the surface of immune cells. 
There is some indication from AE incidence rates that infectious disorders might be slightly more frequent with 
dulaglutide  than  with  comparators  (see  respective  sections  above).  There  was  concern  since  dulaglutide  is 
structurally similar to IgG and might therefore influence immune function. The additional data provided by the 
Applicant for studies of longer duration demonstrate that there is no indication for such an effect. The total rate 
of infections/infestations is well balanced between treatment groups. Also, no specific type  of  infection  was 
markedly more frequent in one group as compared to the other groups. Regarding the term “Immune System 
Disorders”,  hypersensitivity  was  numerically  more  frequent  in  the  Dula  0.75  mg  vs.  the  comparator  group 
(0.5% vs. 0); however, Dula 1.5 mg was again similar to comparator. Therefore, this is regarded as a chance 
finding. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 148/172 
 
  
  
 
 
As discussed in the Pharmacokinetics/Interactions section above, drug-interaction studies were conducted to 
evaluate the effect of dulaglutide on atorvastatin (Study GBCP), digoxin (Study GBCR), warfarin (Study GBCS), 
sitagliptin (Study GBDW), metformin (Study GBDM) and oral contraceptives (Study GBCQ).  
Study GBCO also examined the PK and PD effect of dulaglutide on concomitant medications with haemodynamic 
properties  (lisinopril  in  subjects  with  hypertension  and  metoprolol  in  healthy  subjects).  Multiple  doses  of 
dulaglutide were well tolerated when administered in combination with lisinopril in subjects with hypertension. 
No clinically significant effect on blood pressure was observed following multiple doses of 1.5 mg dulaglutide in 
hypertensive  subjects  on  lisinopril  therapy.  However,  statistically  significant  increases  in  HR  compared  to 
placebo were seen using ABPM following a single (LS mean 24-hour change from baseline of 8.10 bpm) and 
multiple (LS mean 24-hour change from baseline of 6.87 bpm) 1.5 mg doses of dulaglutide in hypertensive 
subjects  on  lisinopril  therapy.  Single  1.5  mg  doses  of  dulaglutide  were  well  tolerated  when  administered  in 
combination with metoprolol in healthy subjects.  When administered in combination with metoprolol, single 
doses of 1.5 mg dulaglutide resulted in statistically significant increases in HR in healthy subjects.  
The  Applicant  has  provided  information  from  the  Phase  2  and  Phase  3  studies  on  the  potential  effects  of 
concomitant use of beta blockers, calcium channel blockers or digoxin on cardiac parameters. Clearly, there are 
limitations but overall the submitted data are consistent with what was observed in the clinical pharmacology 
studies and do not raise any new safety concerns about clinically significant drug interactions.  The effects of 
concomitant  antidiabetic  medication  especially  with  regard  to  hypoglycaemia  are  discussed  in  detail  in  the 
relevant sections above.   
Discontinuation due to AES 
In AS1, more patients in the placebo than all dulaglutide group (7.0% and 4.7%, respectively) discontinued 
study drug or from the study altogether due to an adverse event. The most notable adverse events that led to 
discontinuation were GI disorders and metabolism and nutrition disorders. GI disorders led to discontinuation 
more frequently in the all dulaglutide than  placebo group (2.4% and 0.2%, respectively). Only nausea  was 
associated with a significantly greater rate of discontinuation for all dulaglutide compared with placebo (1.1% 
and 0%). In contrast, metabolism and nutrition disorders led to discontinuation more frequently in the placebo 
group.   
Table  50  Summary  and  Analysis  of  Adverse  Events  Reported  as  the  Reason  for  Discontinuation  of  Study 
Drug or  Discontinuation  from  Study,  Observations  Through 26  Weeks  of  the  Planned  Treatment  Period  - 
Placebo-Controlled  Studies  With  0.75  mg  and  1.5  mg Dulaglutide  (Safety  Population,  Studies  GBCF,  GBDA, 
GBDN) (AS1)  
System Organ Class  
Pts discontinued due to AE  
Cardiac disorders  
Eye disorders  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions  
Hepatobiliary disorders  
Immune system disorders  
Infections and infestations  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Placebo 
(N=568) 
n (%) 
40 (7.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.2) 
0 ( 0.0) 
Dula_0.75 
(N=836) 
n (%) 
24 ( 2.9) 
1(0.1) 
0 ( 0.0) 
11 ( 1.3) 
1 ( 0.1) 
Dula_1.5 
(N=834) 
n (%) 
55 ( 6.6) 
3 ( 0.4) 
1 ( 0.1) 
29 ( 3.5) 
2 ( 0.2) 
All_Dula 
(N=1670) 
n (%) 
79 ( 4.7) 
4 (0.2) 
1 ( <0.1) 
40 ( 2.4) 
3 ( 0.2) 
Odds 
Ratio*a 
0.66 
Hetero-g
eneity 
p-val.*b 
.0.17 
13.91 
.585 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 ( 0.2) 
2 ( 0.4) 
0 ( 0.0) 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 ( 0.1) 
1 ( 0.1) 
0 ( 0.0) 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 (<0.1) 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 ( <0.1) 
0.17 
CMH 
p-val.*c 
.037 
.242 
.616 
<.001 
.300 
.482 
.046 
.216 
Page 149/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 ( 0.1) 
3 ( 0.5) 
1 ( 0.1) 
0 ( 0.0) 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 ( <0.1) 
0.85 
0.14 
6 ( 0.7) 
3 ( 0.4) 
4 ( 0.5) 
5 ( 0.6) 
10 ( 0.6) 
8 ( 0.5) 
4 ( 0.7) 
19 ( 3.3) 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Investigations  
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders  
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant/unspecified  
Nervous system disorders  
Pregnancy, puerperium and 
perinatal  
Renal and urinary disorders  
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Vascular disorders  
4 ( 0.7) 
*a - Mantel-Haenszel Odds Ratio. All_Dula is numerator, Placebo is denominator. 
*b - Heterogeneity of odds ratios across studies was assessed using the Breslow-Day test. 
*c - p-values are from Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test comparing All_Dula to Placebo stratified by study. 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 ( <0.1) 
2 ( 0.2) 
2 ( 0.2) 
0 ( 0.0) 
0 ( 0.0) 
3 ( 0.5) 
0 ( 0.0) 
2 ( 0.1) 
2 ( 0.1) 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 ( 0.1) 
2 ( 0.4) 
0 ( 0.0) 
0 ( 0.0) 
0 ( 0.0) 
1 ( 0.1) 
0 ( 0.0) 
3 ( 0.4) 
2 ( 0.1) 
1 ( 0.2) 
0 ( 0.0) 
0 ( 0.0) 
0 ( 0.0) 
3 ( 0.2) 
0.23 
0.23 
0.25 
.616 
.761 
<.001 
.033 
.060 
 .319 
.022 
.482 
.064 
.144 
.796 
.0.35 
.648 
.362 
.316 
In  AS3,  fewer  patients  who  received dulaglutide  0.75  mg  than  1.5  mg  (n=128  [7.7%]  vs  173  [10.4%], 
respectively) discontinued study drug or study due to an adverse event. The SOCs with the highest incidences 
of AEs that led to discontinuation of study drug or study were GI disorders (dulaglutide 0.75 mg: n=41 [2.5%] 
vs 1.5 mg: n=81 [4.8%]) and metabolism and nutrition disorders (dulaglutide 0.75 mg: n=43 [2.6%] vs 1.5 
mg:  n=34  [2%]  mostly  due  to  Hyperglycaemia).  Nausea  was  reported  as  a  reason  for discontinuation  less 
frequently with dulaglutide 0.75 mg than 1.5 mg (1.0% and 1.9%, respectively). Otherwise, adverse events 
leading to discontinuation of study drug or study were balanced between doses.  
Analyses  of studies GBDA, GBDB, GBDC, and  GBDD revealed that the pattern  of  adverse  events leading to 
discontinuations with regard to dose level (0.75mg vs 1.5mg) was balanced across concomitant (background) 
antihyperglycemic treatments. Discontinuation due to GI events was dose dependent but the overall proportions 
of patients discontinuing due to the events was small and similar across the trials.  
The Applicant also provided further summary data about discontinuations in the dulaglutide groups compared to 
all active comparators As previously noted, the rates of discontinuation in the clinical studies was generally low 
with  the  highest  ones,  as  rather  expected,  seen  in  the  longest  104-week  GBCF  study.  In  most  studies 
discontinuations were less likely with the lower 0.75mg dose than with the higher dose. GI events were the 
primary reason (more often nausea) and with a higher frequency in patients treated with dulaglutide 1.5mg 
compared to the lower dose. The exception was study CBCF (in which no rescue therapy was allowed) where 
among the main reasons for discontinuation was hyperglycaemia and in this case the percentages were similar 
between treatment groups. 
The Applicant suggests that the overall rate of discontinuation due to adverse events across the Phase 3 studies 
are consistent with the GLP-1 class and do not raise major concerns about treatment adherence  and this is 
agreed. It is noted, however, that the findings with the lower dulaglutide dose are generally more favourable 
compared to the higher one and add to the body of evidence supporting the usefulness of the lower strength 
formulation.    
Monotherapy indication 
As mentioned above, the pivotal data for the monotherapy indication come from Study H9X-MC-GBDC. In this 
study the tolerability and safety profile of dulaglutide was similar to metformin but overall more favourable for 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 150/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the lower 0.75mg dose, showing generally less GI effects and a lower risk of hypoglycaemia, as outlined in the 
tables below: 
Common TEAEs. Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Occurring in at Least 5.0% of Patients in Any 
Group by Preferred Term, Baseline to 26 Weeks Intent-To-Treat Population 
Hypoglycaemia. Summary of Total, Documented, and Severe Hypoglycaemia (Plasma Glucose Less than or 
Equal to 70 mg/dL, Excluding Post-Rescue Visits) – Dulaglutide and Comparator (Safety Population, Studies 
GBDC) 
Monotherapy (52 weeks; Study GBDC) 
Total 
Documented symptomatic 
Severe 
Percentage of Patients [Estimated Event 
Rate/Patient/Year] 
MET 
(N=268) 
12.7 [0.28] 
4.9 [0.09] 
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 0.75 
mg (N=270) 
11.1 [0.47] 
5.9 [0.15] 
0 [0.0] 
Dulaglutide 1.5 mg 
(N=269) 
12.3 [0.89] 
6.3 [0.62] 
0 [0.0] 
The percentage of patients who discontinued the study drug or discontinued from study due to adverse events 
was also lower with the 0.75mg dose (n=10; 3.7%) compared to the 1.5mg dose (n=20; 7.4%) or metformin 
(n=17; 6.3%) 
Taken into account also the efficacy results that showed a very similar performance between the two dulaglutide 
doses    the  above  data  suggest  that  in  a  monotherapy  setting  the  0.75mg  dose  may  have  an  overall  more 
favourable benefit:risk profile than the higher 1.5mg dose and comparable to metformin.    
Further to the dulaglutide effects on glycaemic parameters the Applicant considered various characteristics of 
patient groups who could potentially receive dulaglutide instead of metformin. Several aspects were discussed 
and it is true that the concept of using a GLP-1 agonist as monotherapy in T2DM patients who cannot tolerate 
metformin or have contraindications has already been accepted for another GLP-1 agonist (for albiglutide).  
In general, despite some limitations the body of evidence suggests that there are patients among those who 
cannot  receive  metformin  because  of  a  contraindication  or  intolerability,  who  can  benefit  from  dulaglutide 
treatment and the monotherapy indication can be accepted. The evidence also suggests a better benefit:risk 
profile for the 0.75mg dose than the 1.5mg .Therefore, 0.75mg is the recommended  dose in this setting.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 151/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The main safety database includes data from the Phase 2 and 3 clinical studies in a total of 6005 patients with 
T2DM of whom 4006 received at least one dose of dulaglutide. Clinical pharmacology studies also contributed 
680 dulaglutide-treated healthy subjects, patients with T2DM, and a small number of special population subjects 
(including renally or hepatically impaired). The Applicant submitted a comprehensive review of the safety data, 
detailed assessments of events of special interest across the whole program and narratives for serious cases.  
In  order  to  broaden  the  database  for  the  safety  evaluation  of  dulaglutide  the  Applicant  constructed  pooled 
datasets from the individual studies. The Applicant mainly focused on the pool of placebo-controlled studies 
(AS1) which included a limited patient number and shorter treatment duration but allows a good evaluation of 
the true adverse effects attributable to dulaglutide. A broad dataset encompassing all phase 2/3 studies, all 
comparators and also the extension phases of the trials would be desirable for detection of rare events and of 
events that require longer treatment duration in order to be detected. Such a dataset was defined (AS7) but not 
all evaluations were performed on this. The Applicant argued that this set was too heterogeneous because of the 
active comparators being from very different substance classes. This argument is not fully endorsed since all 
comparators are established antidiabetics with known AE profiles so that new AEs of dulaglutide would have 
been detected. A limitation of dataset AS7 is that the Applicant did not distinguish events between the different 
dulaglutide doses so that dose dependency cannot be examined within this set. Nevertheless, the evaluations 
performed with AS7, in conjunction with AS1 and AS3, are considered sufficient for a reliable assessment of the 
dulaglutide safety profile by CHMP although a broad, long-term dataset including all comparators would have 
been favoured. 
The overall exposure to dulaglutide, in terms of  number of patients included in the clinical program, is  also 
considered sufficient to characterise its main safety profile. However, it should be noted that a relatively small 
number of patients were exposed to the drug for more than 1.5-2 years and this is a limitation considering its 
intended long term use. It is positive, however, that the study population comprised a wide range of diabetic 
patients  both  in  terms  of  demographic  and  disease  characteristics  as  well  as  common  comorbidities  and 
background medications; still, there are areas with little or missing information, which is reflected in the SmPC, 
including patients older than 75 years and  potentially  more vulnerable special groups such as patients with 
severe renal insufficiency/end stage renal disease, patients with advanced heart failure.  
As  rather  expected  for  a  GLP-1  receptor  agonist,  the  most  common  adverse  events  were  gastrointestinal 
disorders with a generally higher rate with dulaglutide 1.5mg compared to the lower 0.75mg dose and nausea, 
diarrhoea and vomiting being the most commonly experienced adverse events. Nevertheless, the data suggest 
that the likelihood of new GI events diminishes after the first 2-4 weeks of treatment and it is reassuring that 
although GI tolerability was the most frequent cause of early discontinuations, the overall number of patients 
who discontinued study drug in the main trials was small and the reported compliance was generally high. 
There  were  only  few  deaths  in  the  whole  program  and,  as  expected  for  this  population,  most  of  them  of 
cardiovascular causes. There was no indication of a higher rate in the dulaglutide groups. Similarly the number 
of serious adverse events was generally low, with hypoglycaemia consistently reported as the most the common 
SAE with a slightly higher incidence with dulaglutide 1.5mg. Pneumonia, appendicitis and cholelithiasis were also 
among the most common although differences between groups were small and conclusions are difficult to draw.  
A number of safety topics of special interest in T2DM in general or relevant to the GLP-1 agonist class were 
reviewed  in  more  detail,  including  GI  tolerability,  pancreatitis,  thyroid  neoplasms,  hypersensitivity  and/or 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 152/172 
 
  
  
 
immune  reactions,  hypoglycaemia,  cardiovascular  events,  effects  on  renal  and  hepatic  function  and 
malignancies.  
With regard to pancreas there was a small but clear trend for higher mean amylase and lipase concentrations 
with dulaglutide compared to placebo (and generally larger for dulaglutide 1.5mg than 0.75mg) but cases of 
pancreatitis were very rare and the overall incidence was not higher than placebo or sitagliptin. However, a 
higher rate was observed in the thorough QT study when patients were exposed to doses of 4mg and higher. 
CHMP now considers pancreatitis as an identified risk of the whole class of incretin mimetics. Thus, although 
there is currently no clear evidence for an association between dulaglutide treatment and pancreatitis, this AE is 
therefore included as identified risk in the RMP. Pancreatitis is expected to be assessed in the CV outcome study 
with  dulaglutide.  There  was  also  no  indication  from  the  submitted  data  that  dulaglutide  is  associated  with 
pancreatic  cancer.  However,  any  association  with  cancer  is  difficult  to  be  established  or  excluded  based  on 
premarketing data. CHMP considers pancreatic cancer as a potential risk of the whole class of incretin mimetics. 
Therefore, this issue again is being considered in the RMP and in the ongoing CV outcome study. 
Review of safety data related to  the  thyroid revealed a number  of neoplasms but the incidence  was similar 
between dulaglutide, placebo and active comparators. However, there were three cases of thyroid cancer among 
the  dulaglutide  treated  patients,  although  their  causal  relationship  to  dulaglutide  exposure  is  uncertain. 
Otherwise, dulaglutide was not shown to be associated with a higher incidence of malignancies compared to 
placebo or the active comparators. 
In terms of cardiovascular safety, the data suggest a small lowering effect on blood pressure; however, a dose 
dependent increase in heart rate was a consistent finding across the whole program. Similar effects have been 
reported with other GLP-1 agonists but their clinical importance remains unclear. A consistent finding was also 
a P-R interval prolongation and there was evidence of higher rate of AV conduction abnormalities, although more 
serious forms of AV block were very rare. Due to the low magnitude of these effects, they may not be of concern; 
so far the data also do not suggest more serious effects in case that dulaglutide is combined with digoxin or 
calcium antagonists (see also Clinical Pharmacology above). 
Nevertheless, the overall cardiovascular database, including the findings of a meta-analysis, did not raise any 
major concerns, with dulaglutide showing a lower incidence of MACE than the comparators. However, there are 
limitations both in terms of the number of the events and the exclusion or certain high risk groups like patients 
with advanced renal impairment or heart failure and there was some evidence of a higher rate of strokes in the 
dulaglutide groups. A large cardiovascular trial is currently ongoing and is expected to provide a clearer picture 
of the dulaglutide long term potential CV benefits and risks. 
There is no clear evidence that dulaglutide adversely affects renal or hepatic function; also renal or hepatic 
impairment,  as  shown  in  the  PK  studies,  are  unlikely  to  have  a  significant  effect  on  its  pharmacokinetics. 
However, few patients with worse than mild renal disease (and none with severe or end stage renal failure) were 
examined in the Phase 2 and 3 studies. Therefore, the renal safety of dulaglutide in these special groups has not 
been fully established and the SmPC has been updated accordingly to reflect these limitations, to ensure the 
safe use of the drug in such patients. 
The immunogenic potential of dulaglutide appears to be low and hypersensitivity reactions were rare with no 
apparent association with the presence of anti-dulaglutide antibodies, which were detected in a small overall 
percentage of patients (1.6%). The incidence of injection site reactions with dulaglutide was also low, similar or 
less than that reported with other agents in this class. Potentially immune-mediated reactions were even less 
frequent (0.5%) with erythema being the most commonly reported.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 153/172 
 
  
  
The dulaglutide molecule contains the Fc part of an IgG4 antibody heavy chain aiming at prolonging its half-life. 
There is a theoretical concern that this may exert immunological effects. The Applicant has designed dulaglutide 
in such a way to minimise such potential interactions.  However, immunological effects by yet  unrecognised 
mechanisms  cannot  be  fully  excluded.  Certain  infectious  disorders  occurred  somewhat  more  frequently  in 
dulaglutide-treated patients, including serious ones (pneumonia and urinary tract infection). One patient in the 
dulaglutide  group  died  of  pneumonia.  However,  the  total  rate  of  infections/infestations  was  well  balanced 
between treatment groups;  also,  no specific type  of  infection  was markedly  more  frequent in  one group  as 
compared to the others. The total number of cases was low, and the overall evidence suggests that this is a 
chance finding.  
A safety issue identified in the dulaglutide pivotal trials was the high incidence of hypoglycaemia observed in 
certain studies. Dulaglutide was shown to be worse  than placebo,  possibly suggesting a real hypoglycaemic 
effect but the overall incidence was comparable to metformin or sitagliptin (and better than exenatide BID) with 
rates similar when administered with non-secretagogues as background therapy. However, the risk increased 
noticeably when dulaglutide was given with glimepiride (plus metformin) and even further with prandial insulin 
(with or without metformin) reaching 41.7 events/patient/year for total hypoglycaemia with dulaglutide 1.5mg 
(and even worse 48.4 events/patient/year with dulaglutide 0.75mg) in study GBDD. There were also 21 cases 
with severe hypoglycaemia among dulaglutide-treated patients with 18 taking also insulin lispro and two on 
concomitant glimepiride.  In general, despite the high rates and although there are some limitations (especially 
with  indirect  comparisons  based  on  literature  data),  overall  the  submitted  evidence  suggests  that 
hypoglycaemia  with  dulaglutide  does  not  appear  excessively  higher  than  other  relevant  therapies  for 
comparable levels of glycaemic control. Data from the newly completed data from GBDE study (dulaglutide vs 
liraglutide; see above) are consistent with this view. Certainly, the risk is much higher when dulaglutide is given 
with insulin or a sulphonylurea and the SmPC includes a warning and recommendations for the need of dose 
adjustment for those cases which is acceptable. Relevant rates are also reported in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Remaining uncertainties are particularly with respect to the risk of hypoglycaemia in more vulnerable patient 
groups. The Applicant has provided some analyses for older patients and patients with impaired renal function 
from the insulin studies but data in very old patients and patients with more severe renal disease are scarce. 
From the safety database adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
A reasonably large safety  database  has provided sufficient information to determine the key aspects of  the 
dulaglutide  safety  profile,  although  there  are  limitations,  including  the  relatively  small  number  of  patients 
exposed for longer than 18 months and the absence of robust data on older patients and certain special groups. 
Overall, the safety profile appears consistent with what has previously been observed in this class and separate 
analyses of areas of special interest did not reveal any unexpected findings or raise major concerns, including its 
effect on pancreas and thyroid. Similarly, there was no evidence of an increase in cardiovascular risk or of a 
detrimental effect on renal or liver function. Immunogenicity was low and hypersensitivity reactions were rare.  
The high incidence of hypoglycaemia, in some cases severe, reported in the pivotal trials when dulaglutide was 
administered with glimepiride and prandial insulin is of concern. However, the evidence suggests that the risk of 
hypoglycaemia with dulaglutide may not be higher than other relevant therapies for comparable levels of 
glycaemic control. Still very old patients and other potentially vulnerable groups were underrepresented or 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 154/172 
 
  
  
 
excluded from the studies.These limitations are reflected in the SmPC. Moreover, to alleviate the risk for such 
vulnerable patients the currently recommended starting dose is 0.75mg. 
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the legislative 
requirements. 
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.5 could be acceptable if the applicant implements 
the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC endorsed PRAC Rapporteur assessment report.  
The CHMP endorsed this advice. 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC.  
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 1.6 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
The applicant identified the following safety concerns in the RMP: 
Table 51 Summary of the Safety Concerns  
Summary of Safety Concerns 
Important Identified Risks 
Hypoglycaemia 
Acute pancreatitis 
Gastrointestinal events 
Important Potential Risks 
Hypersensitivity 
Thyroid C-cell tumours 
Pancreatic malignancy 
Cardiovascular effects  
Missing Information 
Use in children and adolescents <18 years of age 
Medication errors (more than one injection per week) 
Use in pregnant and/or breastfeeding women 
Use in patients with hepatic impairment 
Use in patients with severe renal failure 
Use in patients with congestive heart failure  
Use in patients aged ≥75 years 
Confirmation of memory deficits in directly dosed immature rats 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 155/172 
 
  
  
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Table 52: Ongoing and planned studies in the PhV development plan 
Objectives 
To determine the 
annual incidence of 
MTC in the US and 
to identify any 
possible increase 
related to the 
introduction of 
liraglutide and other 
GLP-1 receptor 
agonists into the US 
market. 
A large dulaglutide 
CV outcome study 
that will also 
provide data 
relevant to 
pancreatic safety 
Safety Concerns 
Addressed 
Potential risk of 
medullary thyroid 
carcinoma 
Date for Submission 
of Interim or Final 
Reports 
Status 
(Planned, Started) 
(Planned or Actual) 
The MAH plans to 
join this registry 
upon approval of 
dulaglutide by the 
FDA. 
Estimated submission 
of study report: March 
2032 
CV effects 
Started 
Acute pancreatitis 
Pancreatic 
carcinoma 
Medullary thyroid 
cancer and c-cell 
hyperplasia  
Estimated submission 
of study report: March 
2020 
No interim reports are 
planned 
To evaluate the 
risk/benefit of 
dulaglutide in 
patients with T2DM 
and moderate or 
severe chronic 
kidney disease 
Evaluate the safety 
and efficacy of 
dulaglutide in 
patients with T2DM 
and moderate or 
severe chronic 
kidney disease 
Started  
Estimated submission 
of study report: May 
2017 
Study/Activity 
Type, Title and 
Category (1-3) 
An Active 
Surveillance 
Program for Cases 
of Medullary 
Thyroid Carcinoma 
(MTC) 
(Category 3) 
Cardiovascular 
outcomes study 
(GBDJ; REWIND) 
(Category 3) 
Study Comparing 
the Effect of 
Once-Weekly 
Dulaglutide with 
Insulin Glargine on 
Glycaemic Control 
in Patients with 
Type 2 Diabetes and 
Moderate or Severe 
Chronic Kidney 
Disease (GBDX) 
(Category 3) 
A Drug Utilisation 
Study 
(Category 3) 
To provide 
information on the 
use of dulaglutide 
after approval in the 
EU. 
Overall utilisation in 
real world 
conditions as well as 
off-label useand use 
in subpopulations of 
patients identified as 
Planned 
Estimated completion:   
Completion is subject 
to reimbursement 
status and use of 
dulaglutide in the EU.  
Estimated completion 
Page 156/172 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
 
  
  
 
  
 
Study/Activity 
Type, Title and 
Category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety Concerns 
Addressed 
Date for Submission 
of Interim or Final 
Reports 
Status 
(Planned, Started) 
(Planned or Actual) 
missing 
information: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
diagnosed with 
severe renal 
failure 
patients with 
congestive heart 
failure 
patients with 
hepatic disease 
patients with 
severe GI 
disease 
use in children 
and adolescents 
<18 years of age 
use in elderly  
use in pregnant 
and 
breastfeeding 
women 
  medication 
errors 
Pancreatitis 
Planned  
Hypersensitivity  
Pancreatic and 
thyroid cancers  
CV events including 
heart rate 
(tachycardia) and 
conduction 
abnormalities 
(atrioventricular 
block)  
GI effects/gastric 
stenosis 
within 5 years of 
marketing 
authorization. 
The protocol outlines 
will be submitted 
within 1 month of 
approval (Commission 
Decision) and the 
protocols within 6 
months of approval. 
Estimated completion: 
not more than 5 years 
after marketing 
authorization. 
The protocol outlines 
will be submitted 
within 1 month of 
approval (Commission 
Decision) and the 
protocols within 6 
months of approval 
A Prospective Study 
(Category 3) 
To monitor the 
occurrences of 
events of interest 
and ensure that the 
profile and rate 
remains consistent 
with what has been 
seen in clinical trials 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 157/172 
 
  
  
Study/Activity 
Type, Title and 
Category (1-3) 
Objectives 
A Retrospective 
Study 
(Category 3) 
To estimate the 
incidence rates of 
events of interest 
among T2DM 
patients treated 
with dulaglutide 
compared to other 
GLP-1 receptor 
agonists 
Date for Submission 
of Interim or Final 
Reports 
Status 
(Planned, Started) 
(Planned or Actual) 
Safety Concerns 
Addressed 
Medication errors 
The above outcomes 
will also be 
described  in the 
dulagutide 
subpopulations 
identified as missing 
information  
Pancreatitis 
Planned 
Estimated completion:  
Pancreatic and 
thyroid cancers 
Completion is subject 
to reimbursement 
status and use of 
dulaglutide in the EU.  
Data gathered from the 
aforementioned Drug 
Utilisation Study will 
assist in determining 
when this retrospective 
study can start and 
therefore complete. 
A proposed timeline 
for start and 
completion of this 
Retrospective Study 
can be proposed after 
75% of the required 
sample size in the Drug 
Utilisation Study has 
been achieved.  The 
timeline for start and 
completion of the 
Retrospective Study 
will then be provided 
within 6 months of this 
date. 
Juvenile Rat 
Toxicity Study 
(Category 3) 
Confirmation of 
memory deficits in  
directly dosed 
immature rats 
To determine the 
potential effects of 
dulaglutide on 
neurobehavioral 
development, 
including learning 
and memory, in 
Started 
Q2, 2015 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 158/172 
 
  
  
Study/Activity 
Type, Title and 
Category (1-3) 
Objectives 
directly dosed 
immature rats. 
Date for Submission 
of Interim or Final 
Reports 
Status 
(Planned, Started) 
(Planned or Actual) 
Safety Concerns 
Addressed 
*Category 1 are imposed activities considered key to the benefit risk of the product. 
Category 2 are specific obligations 
Category 3 are required additional PhV activity (to address specific safety concerns or to measure effectiveness of risk minimisation measures) 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed post-authorisation PhV 
development plan is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product.  
The PRAC also considered that the study(ies) in the post-authorisation development plan are sufficient to 
monitor the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 159/172 
 
  
  
Risk minimisation measures 
Table 53: Summary table of Risk Minimisation Measures 
Safety Concern 
Routine Risk-Minimisation Measures 
Hypoglycaemia 
SmPC wording: 
Additional 
Risk-Minimisation 
Measures 
None 
SmPC 4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypoglycaemia 
Patients receiving dulaglutide in combination with sulphonylurea or insulin may 
have an increased risk of hypoglycaemia.  The risk of hypoglycaemia may be 
lowered by a reduction in the dose of sulphonylurea or insulin. 
SmPC 4.8. Undesirable Effects 
Hypoglycaemia (when used in combination with prandial insulin, metformin [1.5 
mg only], or metformin plus glimepiride):  Very common 
Hypoglycaemia (when used as monotherapy or in combination with metformin 
plus pioglitazone): Common 
Hypoglycaemia 
When dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg were used as monotherapy or in 
combination with metformin alone or metformin and pioglitazone, the 
incidences of documented symptomatic hypoglycaemia were 5.9% to 10.9% and 
the rates were 0.14 to 0.62 events/patient/year, and no episodes of severe 
hypoglycaemia were reported. 
The incidences of documented symptomatic hypoglycaemia when dulaglutide 
0.75 mg and 1.5 mg, respectively, were used in combination with a 
sulphonylurea (plus metformin) were 39.0% and 40.3% and the rates  were 1.67 
and 1.67 events/patient/year. The severe hypoglycaemia event incidences were 
0% and 0.7%, and rates were 0.00 and 0.01 events/patient/year. 
The incidences when dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg, respectively, were used in 
combination with  prandial insulin were 85.3% and 80.0% and rates were 35.66 
and 31.06 events/patient/year. The severe hypoglycaemia event incidences were 
2.4% and 3.4%, and rates were 0.05 and 0.06 events/patient/year. 
Acute Pancreatitis  SmPC wording: 
None 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Acute pancreatitis 
Use of GLP1 receptor agonists has been associated with a risk of developing acute 
pancreatitis.  In clinical trials, acute pancreatitis has been reported in association 
with dulaglutide (see Section 4.8). 
Patients should be informed of the characteristic symptoms of acute pancreatitis.  
If pancreatitis is suspected, dulaglutide should be discontinued.  If pancreatitis is 
confirmed, dulaglutide should not be restarted.  In the absence of other signs and 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 160/172 
 
  
  
Gastrointestinal 
Events 
symptoms of acute pancreatitis, elevations in pancreatic enzymes alone are not 
predictive of acute pancreatitis (see Section 4.8). 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Acute pancreatitis  
Acute pancreatitis: rare 
The incidence of acute pancreatitis in Phase II and Phase III clinical studies was 
0.07% for dulaglutide compared to 0.14% for placebo and 0.19% for comparators 
with or without additional background antidiabetic therapy. 
Pancreatic enzymes 
Dulaglutide is associated with mean increases from baseline in pancreatic 
enzymes (lipase and/or pancreatic amylase) of 11% to 21% (see Section 4.4).  In 
the absence of other signs and symptoms of acute pancreatitis, elevations in 
pancreatic enzymes alone are not predictive of acute pancreatitis. 
SmPC wording: 
None 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Use of GLP 1 receptor agonists may be associated with gastrointestinal adverse 
reactions.  This should be considered when treating patients with impaired renal 
function since these events (i.e. nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhoea), may cause 
dehydration which could cause a deterioration of renal function.  Dulaglutide has 
not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease, including severe 
gastroparesis, and is therefore not recommended in these patients. 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Gastrointestinal disorders:  Common and very common 
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions 
Cumulative reporting of gastrointestinal events up to 104 weeks with dulaglutide 
0.75 mg and 1.5 mg respectively included nausea (12.9% and 21.2 %), diarrhoea 
(10.7% and 13.7%) and vomiting (6.9% and 11.5%).  These were typically mild 
or moderate in severity and were reported to peak during the first 2 weeks of 
treatment and rapidly declined over the next 4 weeks, after which the rate 
remained relatively constant. 
In clinical pharmacology studies conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus up to 6 weeks, the majority of gastrointestinal events were reported 
during the first 2-3 days after the initial dose and declined with subsequent doses. 
Hypersensitivity 
SmPC wording: 
4.3 Contraindications 
None 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or any of the excipients listed in 6.1. 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Immunogenicity  
In clinical studies, treatment with dulaglutide was associated with a 1.6 % 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 161/172 
 
  
  
 
incidence of treatment emergent dulaglutide anti drug antibodies, indicating that 
the structural modifications in the GLP 1 and modified IgG4 parts of the 
dulaglutide molecule, together with high homology with native GLP 1 and native 
IgG4, minimise the risk of immune response against dulaglutide.  Patients with 
dulaglutide anti drug antibodies generally had low titres, and although the number 
of patients developing dulaglutide anti drug antibodies was low, examination of 
the Phase 3 data revealed no clear impact of dulaglutide anti drug antibodies on 
changes in HbA1c. 
Hypersensitivity  
In the Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies, systemic hypersensitivity events (e.g., 
urticaria, edema) were reported in 0.5% of patients receiving dulaglutide.  None 
of the patients with systemic hypersensitivity developed dulaglutide anti drug 
antibodies. 
Thyroid C-Cell 
Tumours 
SmPC wording: 
Section 5.3 Preclinical safety data 
Nonclinical data reveal no special hazards for humans based on conventional 
studies of safety pharmacology or repeat-dose toxicity 
In a 6-month carcinogenicity study in transgenic mice, there was no tumorigenic 
response.  In a 2-year carcinogenicity study in rats, at ≥ 7 times the human clinical 
exposure following 1.5 mg dulaglutide per week, dulaglutide caused statistically 
significant, dose-related increases in the incidence of thyroid C-cell tumours 
(adenomas and carcinomas combined).  The clinical relevance of these findings is 
currently unknown.   
Pancreatic 
Malignancy 
Cardiovascular 
Effects 
SmPC wording:  None proposed 
SmPC wording: 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
None 
None 
None 
Sinus tachycardia, first degree atrioventricular block (AVB): common 
Heart rate increase 
Small mean increases in heart rate of 2 to 4 beats per minute (bpm) and a 1.3% 
and 1.4% incidence of sinus tachycardia, with a concomitant increase from 
baseline ≥15 bpm, were observed with dulaglutide 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg 
respectively. 
First degree AV block/PR interval prolongation 
Small mean increases from baseline in PR interval of 2 to 3 msec and a 1.5% and 
2.4% incidence of first-degree AV block were observed with dulaglutide 0.75 mg 
and 1.5 mg respectively. 
Medication 
Errors( more than 
one injection per 
week) 
Proposed text in SmPC: 
None 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Monotherapy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 162/172 
 
  
  
 
The recommended dose is 0.75 mg once weekly 
Add-on therapy 
The recommended dose is 1.5 mg once weekly. 
For potentially vulnerable populations, such as patients ≥ 75 years, 0.75 mg once 
weekly can be considered as a starting dose 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING Section 5 
Method and route(s) of administration 
For single use only 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Once weekly (prominently displayed on the front panel of the carton) 
Mark the day of the week you want to use your medicine to help you remember 
(calendar provided on the package carton)  
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING UNITS  
Section 2. Method of Administration: 
Once weekly 
Package Leaflet: Information for the patient  
Section 3 How to use Trulicity 
When used alone, the recommended dose is 0.75 mg once a week. 
When used with other medicines for diabetes, the recommended dose is 1.5 mg 
once a week. In certain situations, for example if you are 75 years or older, your 
doctor may recommend a starting dose of 0.75 mg once a week.   
Each pen/syringe contains one weekly dose of Trulicity (0.75 mg or 1.5 mg). 
You can use your Trulicity at any time of the day, with or without meals.  You 
should use it on the same day each week if you can.  To help you may wish to tick 
the day of the week when you inject your first dose on the box that your Trulicity 
comes in, or on a calendar. 
Instructions for Use 
Trulicity is administered once a week. You may want to mark your calendar to 
remind you when to take your next dose 
Missing 
Information - Use 
in children and 
adolescents <18 
years of age 
SmPC wording: 
None 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Paediatric Population 
The safety and efficacy of dulaglutide in children aged less than 18 years have not 
yet been established.  No data are available. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 163/172 
 
  
  
 
Missing 
Information - Use 
in pregnant and/or 
breastfeeding 
women 
Missing 
Information – Use 
in patients with 
hepatic 
impairment 
Missing 
Information - Use 
in patients with 
severe renal 
failure 
Missing 
Information - Use 
in patients with 
congestive heart 
failure 
Missing 
Information - Use 
in patients aged 
≥75 years 
Missing 
Information 
-Confirmation of 
memory deficits 
in directly dosed 
SmPC wording: 
None 
Section 4.6  Fertility, pregnancy, and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of dulaglutide in pregnant 
women.  Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
Therefore, the use of dulaglutide is not recommended during pregnancy.   
Breastfeeding 
It is unknown whether dulaglutide is excreted in human milk.  A risk to 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded.  Dulaglutide should not be used during 
breastfeeding. 
SmPC wording: 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
No dosage adjustment is required in patients with hepatic impairment. 
SmPC wording: 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Patients with renal impairment 
No dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate renal 
impairment. 
There is very limited experience in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 
[by CKD EPI] <30 ml/min/1.73 m2) or end stage renal disease, therefore Trulicity 
is not recommended in this population (see Section 5.2). 
SmPC wording: 
Section 4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Populations not studied 
There is limited experience in patients with congestive heart failure. 
SmPC wording: 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Elderly patients (> 65 years old) 
No dose adjustment is required based on age.  However, the therapeutic 
experience in patients ≥75 years is very limited (see Section 5.1), and in these 
patients 0.75 mg once weekly can be considered as a starting dose. 
SmPC wording: 
Section 4.1Therapeutic indications 
Trulicity is indicated in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to imrove glycaemic 
control 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 164/172 
 
  
  
immature rats 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of dulaglutide in children less than 18 year have not yet 
been established. No data are available. 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed risk minimisation 
measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in the proposed indication(s). 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant 
show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of 
the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits  
Beneficial effects 
Dulaglutide is a new long acting GLP-1 receptor agonist, proposed to be used as monotherapy in patients who 
cannot receive metformin due to intolerance or contraindications, and as second line therapy in adult patients 
with T2DM in combination with other glucose lowering therapies (oral antidiabetics and/or insulin) together with 
diet and exercise. Although in recent years a number of different therapeutic options have been made available 
to the T2DM population, including other GLP-1 agonists, new agents still will have a different benefit:risk profile 
or may have advantages in terms of ease of use.  
The  efficacy  of  dulaglutide  was  mainly  examined  in  six  pivotal  trials.  A  sixth  phase  3  study,  considered 
supportive, was submitted during the procedure.Both dulaglutide doses that were tested, 1.5mg and 0.75mg, 
consistently showed a significant and clinically relevant mean reduction in HbA1c from baseline which was the 
primary efficacy endpoint. For dulaglutide 1.5mg the mean changes ranged from -0.78% (in the monotherapy 
Study GBDC) to -1.64% (in the insulin Study GBDD). For dulaglutide 0.75mg treatment the mean changes from 
baseline  ranged  from  -0.71%  to  -1.59%  respectively.  Apart  from  the  monotherapy  trial  (GBDC),  these 
reductions were achieved when dulaglutide was administered as add-on to other OAMs or prandial insulin, in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 165/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
patients not adequately controlled on the previous therapy, suggesting a significant incremental effect.   
Dulaglutide was also superior to placebo as well as the active comparators that it was tested against in the most 
trials. In general, active comparators were titrated to sufficiently high doses to achieve full glucose lowering 
potential. In the pivotal study for the monotherapy indication  monotherapy study GBDC both dulaglutide doses 
showed  a significant reduction in HbA1c compared to  baseline  (-0.71% and  -0.78% for  0.75mg and  1.5mg 
respectively). In addition, the primary objective of the study was achieved showing that both doses were not 
only non-inferior (the primary objective) but also superior to metformin although by only a small margin. 
In study GBCF, dulaglutide 1.5mg was (as add-on to metformin) better in reducing HbA1c than sitagliptin at 12 
months by -0.71% [-0.87%, -0.55%], and in study GBDA it was (as add-on to metformin plus pioglitazone) 
superior  to  exenatide  twice  daily  by  -0.52%  [-0.66%,  -0.39%].  In  the  GBDB  trial  dulaglutide  1.5mg  in 
combination  with  metformin  and  glimepiride  was  more  effective  than  insulin  glargine  by  -0.45%  [-0.60%, 
-0.29%] as was also in study GBDD in combination with insulin lispro (with or without metformin) against the 
insulin glargine+inslulin lispro regimen by -0.22% [-0.38%, -0.07%]. Dulaglutide 0.75mg, although to a lower 
degree, showed similar results.  
In all main studies dulaglutide 1.5mg also resulted  in significantly greater percentages of patients reaching 
HbA1c  <7.0%  or  ≤6.5%  than  the  comparators  and  was  also  better  in  reducing  fasting  (apart  from  insulin 
glargine) and post-prandial glucose. In addition, dulaglutide therapy had a significant effect on body weight in 
most trials with mean changes from baseline to primary time point ranging (depending on the characteristics of 
the population and duration of the observation period) from -0.87kg (Study GBDD, 26 weeks) to -3.03 kg (Study 
GBCF, 52 weeks). Not unexpectedly, the effect on weight was minimal in patients with long duration of diabetes 
and on concomitant insulin, but still dulaglutide was superior in weight reduction when compared to insulin and 
even a small weight loss or even preventing further weight gain in such a population can be important. Of note, 
most of the observed effects were shown to persist through to the final points of the trials, indicating persistence 
of the effects. Also, reassuringly, the sensitivity analyses confirmed the findings of the primary analyses. Study 
data (GBDA, GBDC; DTSQs) also indicated a positive relationship between dulaglutide treatment and patient 
satisfaction. 
In addition, some small but in the right direction effects on systolic blood pressure and lipid parameters were 
observed, although their clinical significance is uncertain. The subgroup analyses did not identify any particular 
factor  having  a  negative  impact  on  the  efficacy  of  dulaglutide,  including  the  presence  of  anti-dulaglutide 
antibodies, which were detected in only a small number of patients.  
Overall,  dulaglutide  showed  a  consistent  and  significant  effect  on  the  primary  and  secondary  glycaemic 
parameters  and  weight  across  all  main  clinical  trials,  further  supported  by  the  findings  of  the  four  Phase  2 
studies, suggesting that it can be a valuable new agent in the therapy of T2DM. In addition, the once weekly 
administration can be an attractive feature for many patients and is likely to result in better compliance than 
other daily injectable products, as also suggested by study GBDA when dulaglutide was compared to exenatide 
BID. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Although there are no issues with the proposed monotherapy indication, the second line (add-on) indications are 
very broad. Not all specific combinations of dulaglutide with oral antidiabetics or insulin are supported by specific 
studies asavailable evidence..  
Although it would be unreasonable to expect individual studies for each possible combination the lack of data on 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 166/172 
 
  
  
some of them raise some concerns about the generalizability of the findings of the dulaglutide clinical program. 
For example, there are no data on double therapy in combination with a sulphonylurea or a thiazolidinedione 
alone,  or  triple  combination  with  sulphonylurea  plus  thiazolidinedione.  Although  these  may  not  be  first  line 
combinations, they may be relevant to certain patients. Also the current application does not contain a study 
investigating  dulaglutide  in  comparison  with  a  SU.  An  important  issue  is  the  lack  of  efficacy  data  on  the 
combination of dulaglutide with basal insulin as dulaglutide was only examined (study GBDD) together with 
prandial insulin (with or without metformin) against a basal+prandial insulin regimen, investigating the place of 
dulaglutide as basal treatment for glucose control.  
Taking into account the totality of the efficacy data and the notable consistency seen across the whole program, 
considering  also  the  experience  so  far  with  other  members  of  the  class,  there  is  no  reason  to  believe  that 
dulaglutide would be  less efficacious in the combinations under question than in the regimens tested in the 
clinical trials. However, the lack of efficacy data on certain conditions that dulaglutide is possible to be used in 
real world, although the extrapolation of the results of the trials seems reasonable, remains an uncertainty. With 
regard to the reduction in body weight, the clinical relevance of the observed effect size (-0.87 kg to -3.03 kg 
with dulaglutide 1.5 mg) is unclear.  
An additional issue is the minimal or missing information on certain special patient groups such as patients older 
than 75 years or those with moderate and severe renal insufficiency, patients with hepatic disease or advanced 
heart failure. There is a lack of robust data to establish the benefits of treatment in these vulnerable groups. 
In addition to the above specific issues, there is the wider uncertainly regarding the longer term impact of the 
therapy on macrovascular complications and whether and to what extent dulaglutide will be able to positively 
affect the course of the disease. Although, as mentioned above, there is solid evidence of a favourable effect on 
glycaemic control and other secondary parameters, these remain surrogate measures. 
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
A reasonably large safety database has provided sufficient information to determine the key characteristics of 
dulaglutide safety profile, which appears generally consistent with what has previously been observed in this 
class.  
As expected for a GLP-1 receptor agonist, the most common adverse events were gastrointestinal disorders with 
a higher rate seen with dulaglutide 1.5mg than with the lower 0.75mg dose and nausea, diarrhoea and vomiting 
being the most commonly experienced adverse events. There were only few deaths in the whole program with 
no indication of a higher frequency in the dulaglutide groups. Similarly the number of serious adverse events 
was generally low, with hypoglycaemia consistently reported as the most the common SAE with a slightly higher 
incidence  with  dulaglutide  1.5mg.  Pneumonia,  appendicitis  and  cholelithiasis  were  also  among  the  most 
common although differences between groups were small and conclusions are difficult to draw.  
With regard to pancreas there was a small but clear trend for higher enzyme concentrations with dulaglutide 
compared to placebo but cases of pancreatitis were very rare and the overall incidence was not higher than 
placebo  or  sitagliptin.  However,  a  higher  rate  was  observed  in  the  thorough  QT  study  when  patients  were 
exposed to doses of 4mg or more, suggesting a potentially small safety margin. Review of thyroid safety data 
revealed  a  number  of  neoplasms  but  the  incidence  was  similar  between  dulaglutide,  placebo  and  active 
comparators.  However,  there  were  three  cases  of  thyroid  cancer  among  the  dulaglutide  treated  patients, 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 167/172 
 
  
  
although their causal relationship to dulaglutide exposure is uncertain. Otherwise, dulaglutide was not shown to 
be associated with a higher incidence of serious events, including malignancies compared to placebo or  the 
active comparators. There was also no clear evidence of a detrimental effect on renal or liver function. 
In terms of cardiovascular safety, no adverse effect was noted on blood pressure but a dose dependent increase 
in heart rate was a consistent finding across the whole program. Studies also showed P-R interval prolongation 
in dulaglutide groups, and there was evidence of higher rate of AV conduction abnormalities, although more 
serious  forms  of  AV  block  were  very  rare.  Nevertheless,  the  overall  cardiovascular  database,  including  the 
findings  of  a  meta-analysis,  did  not  raise  any  major  concerns,  with  dulaglutide  showing  an  overall  lower 
incidence of MACE than the comparators. 
The immunogenic potential of dulaglutide appears to be low and hypersensitivity reactions were rare with no 
apparent  association  with  the  presence  of  anti-dulaglutide  antibodies,  which  were  detected  in  a  small 
percentage of patients (1.6%). The incidence of injection site reactions with dulaglutide was also low, similar or 
less than that reported with other agents in this class. Potentially immune-mediated reactions were even less 
frequent (0.5%) with erythema being the most commonly reported.     
A safety issue identified in the dulaglutide pivotal trials was the high incidence of hypoglycaemia observed in 
certain studies particularly when it was given with glimepiride (plus metformin) and even further with prandial 
insulin (with or without metformin).  However, despite the high rates and although there are some limitations 
(especially with indirect comparisons based on literature data), overall the submitted evidence suggests that 
hypoglycaemia  with  dulaglutide  does  not  appear  excessively  higher  than  other  relevant  therapies  for 
comparable levels of glycaemic control. Data from the newly completed data from GBDE study (dulaglutide vs 
liraglutide; see above) are  consistent with this view.The risk  is much  higher when dulaglutide is given with 
insulin  or  a  sulphonylurea  and  the  SmPC  includes  a  warning  and  recommendations  for  the  need  of  dose 
adjustment for those cases which is acceptable. Relevant rates are also reported in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
As noted above, the safety database was of a reasonable size for this type of medication including a total of 6005 
patients with T2DM (with 4006 taking at least one dose of dulaglutide) from the Phase 2 and 3 trials and an 
additional 680 patients from the clinical pharmacology studies. The overall exposure to dulaglutide, in terms of 
numbers is considered sufficient to characterise its main safety profile. However, a relatively small number of 
patients were exposed to the drug for more than 1.5-2 years (≥78 weeks: n= 642; ≥104 weeks: n= 157) and 
this is a limitation considering that dulaglutide is intended for chronic use.  
It is acknowledged that the study population across the main trials comprised a wide range of diabetic patients, 
but there are areas with little or missing information including, as previously mentioned, patients older than 75 
years  and  other  potentially  vulnerable  special  groups  such  as  those  with  advanced  heart  failure  as  well  as 
patients with severe renal insufficiency or with hepatic disease. There was no clear evidence that dulaglutide 
may adversely affect renal or hepatic function; however, few patients with worse than mild renal disease (and 
none with severe or end stage renal failure) were examined in the Phase 2 and 3 studies. The same is also true 
for patients with hepatic disease. Overall, the safety of dulaglutide in the above special groups, particularly in 
severe  renal  patients  remains  uncertain  and  this  is  reflected  in  the  product  information  which  advises  that 
dulaglutide is not recommended in such patients. 
In addition to the above, although the safety analyses did not identify any specific issue of major concern there 
are still areas like pancreatic and thyroid safety that are uncertain and remain under monitoring. This is not 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 168/172 
 
  
  
specific  to  dulaglutide  but  concerns  the  whole  incretin-based  class.    Based  on  a  recent  data  review,  CHMP 
considers pancreatic cancer as a potential risk of the whole class of incretin mimetics [Article 5(3) Procedure 
(EMEA/H/A-5(3)/1369) on pancreatic issues with GLP-1 based therapies]. Therefore, this issue is addressed in 
the RMP and in the ongoing CV outcome study.   
With regard to dulaglutide cardiovascular effects, although as discussed above, the overall data did not identify 
any particularly new or unexpected issues and the results of the CV meta-analysis were generally reassuring, 
there are still some uncertainties about specific findings such as the increase in heart rate, the effect on AV 
conduction  and  repolarisation  that  deserve  further  consideration.  Regarding  PR  interval  prolongation,  it  is 
uncertain whether more serious effects should be expected if dulaglutide is combined with digoxin or calcium 
antagonists. In addition, there was an imbalance in the incidence of nonfatal strokes between groups not in 
favour of dulaglutide; the numbers are small and conclusions are difficult to draw but this is another issue that 
is monitored. Furthermore, despite the generally encouraging findings of the CV meta-analysis, the long term 
potential CV benefits and especially risks of dulaglutide are yet to be established as addressed in the ongoing CV 
outcome trial.       
There was an increase in the incidence of certain infectious disorders. The rate for each individual event was 
small and firm conclusions cannot be drawn. Nevertheless, due to the Fc part of the dulaglutide molecule, a 
direct  effect  of  dulaglutide  on  the  immune  system  is  theoretically  possible.  The  overall  evidence,  however, 
suggests that this is a chance finding. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Type  2  diabetes  remains  one  of  the  leading  causes  of  cardiovascular  disease,  renal  failure,  blindness, 
amputations  and  hospitalisations  and  has  been  associated  with  a  variety  of  other  disorders.  Despite  recent 
therapeutic progresses there are areas of unmet need and good glycaemic control, as measured by HbA1c, 
remains a major focus of therapy aiming at reducing the risk of microvascular and macrovascular complications. 
In this context, any new therapy that can contribute to these targets can be a valuable asset in the management 
of the condition. 
However, equally important is to ensure that both short and long term safety of the patients is not compromised, 
and poor tolerability does not affect the patients’ quality of life and compliance to a degree that may render the 
therapy unendurable or ineffective.  
These are the main parameters that need to guide the benefit:risk evaluation. For dulaglutide, as discussed in 
more detail below, there is sufficient evidence to suggest that it is a potent and efficacious antidiabetic agent. 
However, it is characterised, as the rest of the class, by relatively poor GI  tolerability, and there are safety 
concerns about its administration with certain combinations.   
Benefit-risk balance 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 169/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Based on the current evidence, overall the benefits of dulaglutide outweighs the possible risks in the proposed 
target population.  
Discussion on the benefit-risk assessment 
The clinical program has provided sufficient evidence of a significant and clinically relevant effect on the primary 
and secondary glycaemic and other metabolic parameters suggesting that both 0.75mg and 1.5mg doses of 
dulaglutide can offer incremental benefits over and above common treatments in the management of a wide 
range of T2DM patients. Not all potential scenarios were examined in the clinical trials and extrapolations are 
inevitable but there is no reason to believe, taking also into account the experience with other members of the 
class, that dulaglutide would perform less well under most possible conditions. Of importance, it appears that in 
most cases it can do so reasonably safely and without major tolerability issues that could significantly affect the 
patients’ quality of life or compliance. Although still an injectable product, the once weekly administration and 
the low incidence of injection site reactions are likely to further help to this end.   
In terms of safety, there are several uncertainties including the lack of data in certain special groups and the 
relatively limited duration of exposure that do not permit excluding longer term adverse effects on CV and other 
systems such as pancreas or thyroid at this stage. Nevertheless, the increasing accumulation of data on GLP-1 
agonists and the incretin-based class as a whole, allow a certain amount of confidence in the assessment of the 
potential risks.          
Taking  into  account  all  the  above,  the  benefit:risk  of  dulaglutide  under  most  conditions  appears  to  be 
favourable. There are still concerns about its use in combination with sulphonylureas or insulin as the risk of 
hypoglycaemia, sometimes severe, may be high as suggested by the relevant trials. The hazards associated 
with hypoglycaemia in the T2DM population are  well-established and the fact that possibly more vulnerable 
groups such as very old patients were underrepresented in the studies add to the general uncertainty.  
The above points also apply to the monotherapy indication for patients who cannot receive metformin (because 
of a contraindication or if they cannot tolerate it) with the evidence suggesting that dulaglutide can be a useful 
alternative.  The data indicate that the 0.75mg dose has an overall more favourable benefit:risk profile than the 
higher 1.5mg dose in this setting and this is the currently recommended posology. Similarly for combination 
therapies, the lower dose, although less efficacious, may still be useful in certain patients when starting therapy 
but also for those  who  in  the longer  term  may not be able  to tolerate the higher dose.    In  this context for 
dulaglutide as add-on therapy the recommended dose is 1.5mg once weekly but for potentially more vulnerable 
groups a starting dose with 0.75mg is recommended.  
For  these  reasons,  the  CHMP  requested  during  the  procedure  to  make  the  0.75mg  strength  formulation 
available, to which the applicant agreed, thus allowing a greater degree of flexibility to meet the needs of the 
intended  target  population.  On  this  basis  and  in  the  absence  of  any  major  concerns  the  overall  benefits  of 
dulaglutide appear to outweigh the possible risks for the proposed indications. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 170/172 
 
  
  
 
risk-benefit balance of Trulicity in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus is favourable and therefore 
recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic 
safety update reports for this product in accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference 
dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European 
medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same 
time. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP considers that 
dulaglutide is qualified as a new active substance. 
CHMP recommendation 
Area 
Number 
Description 
Classification*  Due 
date 
Quality 
1 
Where previously freeze/thawed drug 
REC 
substance (DS) is used beyond the 24 
months’ time point, the applicant has 
agreed to carry out additional tests on 
the DS and  will submit a proposal a 
suitable testing regimen for this as 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 171/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
recommended by the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/524604/2014 
Page 172/172 
 
  
  
 
 
 
