EMA/61283/2023  
EMEA/H/C/002825 
Trulicity (dulaglutide) 
An overview of Trulicity and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Trulicity and what is it used for? 
Trulicity is a medicine used in adults and children from 10 years of age with type 2 diabetes. It is used 
in addition to appropriate diet and exercise. 
Trulicity is used: 
- on its own when use of metformin (another medicine for type 2 diabetes) is not recommended; 
- as an ‘add-on’ to other diabetes medicines. 
Trulicity contains the active substance dulaglutide. 
How is Trulicity used? 
Trulicity can only be obtained with a prescription. It is available as prefilled pens containing a solution 
to be injected under the skin in the abdomen (belly), in the thigh or in the upper arm.  
For more information about using Trulicity, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Trulicity work? 
The active substance in Trulicity, dulaglutide, is a ‘GLP-1 receptor agonist’. It acts in the same way as 
GLP-1 (a hormone produced in the gut) by increasing the amount of insulin that the pancreas releases 
in response to food. This helps to control blood glucose levels and symptoms of type 2 diabetes. 
What benefits of Trulicity have been shown in studies? 
In adults, the effectiveness of Trulicity has been studied in 5 main studies involving over 4,500 
patients with type 2 diabetes. In these studies, Trulicity was compared with placebo (a dummy 
treatment) or with other diabetes medicines when used alone or as an add-on to various combination 
treatments. Information from a supportive study sent with the application was also considered.  
The main measure of effectiveness was the change in the level of glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), 
which is the percentage of haemoglobin in the blood that has glucose attached to it. HbA1c gives an 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
indication of how well blood glucose is controlled. The patients’ HbA1c at baseline ranged from 7.6 to 
8.5% and patients were treated for at least 52 weeks. 
Trulicity was more effective than metformin at reducing HbA1c levels when used alone, and it was 
more effective than the diabetes medicines exenatide (given twice daily) or sitagliptin, and at least as 
good as insulin glargine, when used as add-on to other treatments.  
After 26 weeks of treatment, Trulicity reduced HbA1c by between 0.71 and 1.59 percentage points at 
the lower dose, and by between 0.78 and 1.64 percentage points at the higher dose. This was 
considered clinically meaningful and there was evidence that HbA1c levels remained low during long-
term treatment. About 51% of those given the lower dose and 60% of patients given the higher dose 
of Trulicity achieved a target HbA1c below 7.0% and this was generally more than the proportion 
achieving this target with alternative treatments. 
A further study in 9,901 adults with type 2 diabetes found Trulicity effective at reducing major harmful 
effects on the heart and the circulatory system. Stroke, heart attack or death from heart of circulatory 
problems occurred in 12.0% of patients receiving Trulicity over about 5 years compared with 13.4% of 
patients receiving placebo. 
The benefits of Trulicity were also investigated in one main study involving 154 children from 10 years 
of age with type 2 diabetes. After 26 weeks of treatment, patients on Trulicity had a reduction in 
HbA1c levels of 0.7 percentage points, versus an increase of 0.6 percentage points for patients on 
placebo. This difference between Trulicity and placebo was considered clinically meaningful. 
What are the risks associated with Trulicity? 
The most common side effects with Trulicity (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are nausea 
(feeling sick), vomiting and diarrhoea. For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Trulicity, see 
the package leaflet. 
Why is Trulicity authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Trulicity’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. The medicine was effective for treating type 2 diabetes: it improved 
control of blood sugar levels in adults and children from 10 years of age and was shown to reduce 
harmful effects on the heart and blood circulation in adults. In addition, Trulicity has the advantage 
that it can be given once a week. The medicine’s side effects are considered manageable. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Trulicity? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Trulicity have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Trulicity are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Trulicity are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Trulicity 
Trulicity received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 November 2014. 
Further information on Trulicity can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/trulicity.  
Trulicity (dulaglutide)  
EMA/61283/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 02-2023. 
Trulicity (dulaglutide)  
EMA/61283/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
