16 October 2023 
EMA/337051/2023 Rev 1.1 
Indication 
Shortage of Trulicity (dulaglutide) 
Solution for injection pre-filled pens (0.75, 1.5, 3 and 4.5 mg) 
Trulicity is a medicine used in addition to diet and 
exercise in adults and children from 10 years of age 
who have type 2 diabetes. 
It is used: 
• 
on its own when use of metformin (another 
medicine for type 2 diabetes) is not recommended; 
as an ‘add-on’ to other diabetes medicines. 
• 
Reason for shortage  
There has been an increase in demand for Trulicity, 
which has led to intermittent supply shortages that are 
expected to continue at least until end of December 
2023. 
The supply shortage is not related to a quality defect of 
the product or a safety issue. 
Member States affected 
Austria, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, 
Monitoring of shortage 
Norway, Poland and Sweden are currently affected by 
the shortage.  
This information may change. For up-to-date 
information about the status of a medicine shortage in 
a particular Member State, contact the national 
competent authority. 
EMA’s SPOC working party2 is closely monitoring the 
supply situation and engaging with the marketing 
authorisation holder and other stakeholders to identify 
measures to mitigate the impact of the supply 
shortage.  
Information for healthcare professionals  
•  An increase in demand for Trulicity has led to 
supply shortages that are expected to continue at 
least until end of December 2023. 
1 This document was initially published on 28 August. It was then modified on 16 October 2023 to update 
information on the duration of the shortage. 
2 The SPOC working party is responsible for monitoring and reporting events that could affect the supply of 
medicines in the EU. Summaries of the SPOC working party meetings can be found on EMA’s website. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Trulicity (dulaglutide) 
Solution for injection pre-filled pens (0.75, 1.5, 3 and 4.5 mg) 
•  Healthcare professionals should ensure that  
patients at risk of running out of Trulicity are  
switched in time to a suitable alternative. 
•  Additional advice may be available from your 
country’s national shortage register or national 
competent authority. 
Information for patients  
•  An increase in demand for Trulicity has led to 
supply shortages that are expected to continue at 
least until end of December 2023. 
If you are at risk of running out of Trulicity, your 
doctor will discuss with you the need to switch to a 
suitable alternative. 
If you have any questions, speak to your doctor or 
• 
• 
pharmacist.  
•  Additional advice may be available from your 
country’s national shortage register or national 
competent authority. 
Ongoing 
Status 
 
 
 
 
