Part VI: Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Trulicity (Dulaglutide) 
This is a summary of the RMP for Trulicity. The RMP details important risks of Trulicity, how 
these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Trulicity’s risks 
and uncertainties (missing information). 
Trulicity’s SmPC and its package leaflet give essential information to health care professionals 
and patients on how Trulicity should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Trulicity should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which 
are part of the EPAR.  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Trulicity’s RMP. 
I - The Medicine and What It is Used for 
Trulicity is authorised for the treatment of patients aged 10 years and older with T2DM (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains dulaglutide as the active substance and it is given by 
injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Trulicity’s benefits can be found in Trulicity’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trulicity#overview-section 
II - Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Trulicity, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Trulicity’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be specific information, such 
as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to 
patients  and  healthcare  professionals.  Together,  these  measures  constitute  routine  risk 
minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions, including PSUR assessment, 
is collected continuously and analysed regularly so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Trulicity is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Trulicity are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Trulicity. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important Identified Risks 
None 
Important Potential Risks 
Thyroid C-cell tumours 
Pancreatic malignancy 
Missing Information 
None 
 
 
 
 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
Summary of Important Risks  
Important Potential Risk: Thyroid C-cell tumours 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The only evidence for this potential risk comes from rodents (rats 
only in the case of dulaglutide) with near lifetime exposure. This 
effect on rodent thyroids has been observed consistently with other 
long-acting GLP-1 RAs like dulaglutide. The relevance to humans 
cannot be determined from clinical and nonclinical studies. At this 
time, there is insufficient evidence to attribute thyroid C-cell 
disease to dulaglutide. As cancer can take many years to develop, 
the database for dulaglutide is of insufficient size and exposure 
duration to assess the relevance of these findings in rats to 
dulaglutide use in patients with T2DM. 
Compared to the general population, patients with diabetes have a 
higher prevalence of thyroid disorders (6.6% vs 10.8%). However, 
the link between T2DM and thyroid cancer is arguable. Some 
studies did not show an association between diabetes, including 
T2DM, and thyroid cancer risk, while other studies showed that 
patients with diabetes are 20% to 34% more likely to develop 
thyroid cancer than those without diabetes. As a result, no specific 
risk factors in relation to dulaglutide use have been identified. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC Section 5.3 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
•  H9X-MC-B001: Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC) 
Surveillance Study 
•  H9X-MC-B013: Dulaglutide Retrospective Study 
See  Section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
 
 
 
Important Potential Risk: Pancreatic malignancy  
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
There has been some concern that GLP-1 RA‒mediated insulin 
secretion could promote tumour formation, including pancreatic 
malignancies. Some reports indicate a causal association with these 
agents, while others have failed to show such an association. 
A joint FDA and EMA publication states that data demonstrate 
conflicting opinions about the strength of the association. To date, 
no causal relationship between dulaglutide and pancreatic 
malignancy has been established. From the clinical trial programme 
for dulaglutide, only a few cases of pancreatic malignancy were 
reported, even with extended exposure (up to 7 years).  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Except for the excess risk of pancreatic malignancy and pancreatitis 
associated with T2DM, no risk factors specific to dulaglutide 
treatment have been identified. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: Not applicable 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  H9X-MC-B013: Dulaglutide Retrospective Study 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Abbreviations: EMA = European Medicines Agency; FDA = US Food and Drug Administration; GLP-
1 = glucagon-like peptide-1; RA = receptor agonist; RMP = risk management plan; SmPC = summary of product 
characteristics; T2DM = type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies that are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of dulaglutide. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Study short name: Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC) Surveillance Study (H9X-MC-B001) 
Purpose of the study: This is a prospective registry conducted through state cancer registries to 
determine the annual incidence of MTC in the US and to identify any possible increase related to 
the introduction of long-acting GLP-1 RAs, including dulaglutide, into the US market. This 
study addresses the important potential risk of MTC observed in rodents across all 
GLP-1 agonists. 
Study short name: Dulaglutide Retrospective Study (H9X-MC-B013) 
Purpose of the study: This study will estimate the incidence rates of events of interest among 
patients with T2DM treated with dulaglutide compared to other second-line anti-diabetes 
medications and long-acting GLP-1 RAs compared to other second-line anti-diabetes 
medications. It will address the safety concerns of pancreatic and thyroid cancers. 
 
 
