Summary of risk management plan for Trumenba (bivalent rLP2086) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Trumenba.  The RMP details 
important risks of Trumenba, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Trumenba’ s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Trumenba’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Trumenba should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Trumenba should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Trumenba’s RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It Is Used For 
Trumenba is a vaccine to prevent invasive meningococcal disease, caused by Neisseria 
meningitidis serogroup B, for use in people 10 years and older (See SmPC for the full 
indication).  It contains Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B fHbp subfamily A (60 
micrograms) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B fHbp subfamily B (60 micrograms) as 
active substances and it is a white suspension for injection, provided in a pre-filled syringe. 
Further information about the evaluation of Trumenba’s benefits can be found in Trumenba’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trumenba  
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Trumenba, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Trumenba’ s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Trumenba is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Trumenba are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Trumenba.  Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1.  List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
Use in co-administration with MMR and pneumococcal vaccines 
Use in immunocompromised individuals (eg, individuals with terminal 
complement deficiency or asplenia) 
Vaccine effectiveness 
MMR = measles, mumps, and rubella. 
II.B. Summary of Important Risks and Missing Information 
There are no identified or potential risks that are considered important for Trumenba. 
Table 2. 
 Missing Information: Use in Co-Administration with MMR and 
Pneumococcal Vaccines 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
The risk is communicated through the label (SmPC Section 4.5) 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None. 
A PASS protocol (C3511006) to assess the safety, tolerability and 
immunogenicity of MenABCWY in healthy participants ≥ 12 to <24 months of 
age, and when administered concomitantly with MMR and Pneumococcal 
vaccines in healthy participants ≥12 to< 16 months of age. 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
MMR = Measles-Mumps-Rubella Vaccine; rLP2086 = Recombinant Lipoprotein 2086; SmPC = Summary of 
Product Charateristics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. 
 Missing Information: Use in Immunocompromised Individuals (eg, 
Individuals with Terminal Complement Deficiency or Asplenia) 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
The risk is communicated through the label (SmPC Section 4.4) 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None. 
A PASS protocol (B1971060) to investigate the safety, tolerability and 
immunogenicity of 2 doses of bivalent rLP2086 in immunocompromised 
individuals (including individuals with complement deficiency or asplenia) ≥10 
years of age. See section II. C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan.  
rLP2086 = Recombinant Lipoprotein 2086 ; PASS =  Post Authorization Safety Study. 
Table 4. 
 Missing Information: Vaccine Effectiveness 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
The risk is communicated through the label (SmPC Sections 4.4 and 5.1) 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Investigation of bivalent rLP2086 effectiveness 
•  Provide detailed meningococcal epidemiological reports in the PSURs. 
•  Feasibility assessments of the ability to determine the effectiveness of 
bivalent rLP2086 in the US and Italy, plus any country that introduces 
bivalent rLP2086 into a national or regional immunization program (to 
be provided in the PSURs). 
For a Country that may be planning to introduce bivalent rLP2086 in the future 
the MAH proposed the following, if deemed feasible: 
A phase 4 observational study based on the active laboratory surveillance for 
IMD in all ages in a specific region or country where bivalent rLP2086 vaccine 
is part of the routine immunization program. The study will aim to evaluate the 
impact and effectiveness of bivalent rLP2086 on confirmed MenB cases. This 
will be dependent upon the availability of the necessary data on MenB cases 
and vaccine coverage through the existing surveillance systems 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
IMD = invasive meningococcal disease; rLP2086= Recombinant Lipoprotein 2086; SmPC = Summary of 
Product Charateristics; 
II.C. Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no planned or ongoing post-authorisation efficacy studies which are specific 
obligations and/or conditions of the MAA.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other efficacy/effectiveness studies 
B1971057: 
Study title: A Phase 3, randomised, active-controlled, observer-blinded study to assess the 
immunogenicity, safety, and tolerability of bivalent rLP2086 when administered as a 2-dose 
regimen and a first-in-human study to describe the immunogenicity, safety, and tolerability 
of a bivalent rLP2086-containing pentavalent vaccine (MenABCWY) in healthy subjects 10 
to <26 years of age. 
Purpose of the study: To assess the immune response induced by bivalent rLP2086 measured 
1 month after the second vaccination in the bivalent rLP2086 arms combined.  To describe 
the safety profile of bivalent rLP2086 following Vaccinations 1 and 2 in the bivalent 
rLP2086 arms combined (Stage 1) and to assess persistence of immunity through 4 years 
after completing the primary series of MenABCWY and bivalent rLP2086+MenACWY-
CRM group subjects (Stage 2). 
II.C.2. Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
The category 3 studies listed below are additional planned, or ongoing pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
C3511006: A Phase 3, randomized, controlled, open-label trial to assess the safety, 
tolerability and immunogenicity of MenABCWY in healthy participants ≥ 12 to <24 
months of age, and when administered concomitantly with MMR and Pneumococcal 
vaccines in healthy participants ≥12 to< 16 months of age. (Planned) 
The study is designed to: 
Assess the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of MenABCWY when administered 
concomitantly with MMR and 13vPnC pneumococcal vaccine in participants ≥12 to <16 
months of age. The study is designed to demonstrate in this population responses to 
MenABCWY MMR and 13vPnC pneumococcal vaccine when administered concomitantly 
to be non-inferior to responses to MenABCWY, MMR and 13vPnC pneumococcal vaccine 
when MenABCWY is administered a month apart from MMR + pneumococcal 
vaccine13vPnC.  
To demonstrate that the ACWY immune response following MenABCWY is noninferior to 
that following EU licensed quadrivalent meningococcal vaccine Nimenrix (MenACYW-TT) 
in participants ≥12 to <24 months of age.  
B1971060: Phase 4, open-label, single-arm trial to describe the safety, tolerability, and 
immunogenicity of bivalent rLP2086 when administered to immunocompromised 
participants ≥10 years of age. (Ongoing) 
Purpose of the study: to describe the safety and immunogenicity of 2 doses of bivalent 
rLP2086 administered on a 0- and 6-month schedule in immunocompromised participants 
≥10 years of age.     
 
 
Investigation of bivalent rLP2086 effectiveness. (Planned) 
Purpose of the PV activity: to incorporate in the Periodic Safety Update Reports, in order 
to provide an update of progress towards executing a study to evaluate effectiveness of 
bivalent rLP2086: 
o  Detailed meningococcal epidemiological reports; 
o  Feasibility assessments of the ability to determine the effectiveness of bivalent 
rLP2086 in the US and Italy, plus any country that introduces bivalent 
rLP2086 into a national or regional immunization program. 
For a Country that may be planning to introduce bivalent rLP2086 in the future the MAH 
proposed the following, if deemed feasible: 
o  A phase 4 observational study will be conducted based on the active 
laboratory surveillance for IMD in all ages in a specific region or country 
where bivalent rLP2086 vaccine is part of the routine immunization program. 
The study will aim to evaluate the impact and effectiveness of bivalent 
rLP2086 on confirmed MenB cases. This will be dependent upon the 
availability of the necessary data on MenB cases and vaccine coverage 
through the existing surveillance systems. 
 
 
 
