SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR TRUVADA 
(EMTRICITABINE/TENOFOVIR DF)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Truvada. The RMP details important 
risks of Truvada, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Truvada’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Truvada’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Truvada should be used.
This summary of the RMP for Truvada should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the 
Truvada RMP.
I. 
The Medicine and What is it Used for
Truvada is authorized in antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infected adults, and for the treatment of HIV-1 infected 
adolescents with nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) resistance or toxicities 
precluding the use of first line agents. Truvada is also indicated in combination with safer sex 
practices for pre-exposure prophylaxis to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in 
adults and adolescents at high risk (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains emtricitabine 
(FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) as the active substance and it is given orally.
Further information about the evaluation of Truvada’s benefits can be found in Truvada’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000594/huma 
n_med_001113.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124
II.
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further
Characterize the Risks
Important risks of Truvada, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Truvada’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the
medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimizes its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In the case of Truvada, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimization 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Truvada is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of Truvada are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Truvada. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
Table Part VI.1.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks
HIV-1 acquisition, including infection resulting from non-adherence (pre-
exposure prophylaxis [PrEP] indication) (TVD)
Development of resistance in patients with unrecognized or acute HIV-1 
infection (PrEP indication) (TVD)
Important Potential Risks
None
Missing Information
Safety in pregnancy and lactation (TDF)
II.B.
Summary of Important Risks
Table Part VI.2.
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information
Important Identified 
Risk
HIV-1 Acquisition, Including Infection Resulting From Non-adherence (PrEP 
Indication)
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
HIV-1 acquisition has been reported infrequently with the use of Truvada for the PrEP 
indication in clinical trials, in the postmarketing setting and in the literature, and has 
been associated with poor adherence.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s)
Subjects with poor treatment compliance.
Routine risk minimization measure:
SmPC Section 4.4
PL Sections: 2 and 3
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific clinical measures to 
address the risk:
SmPC Section 4.4: Warning that HIV-1 uninfected individuals should be counselled at 
frequent intervals to strictly adhere to the recommended Truvada daily dosing 
schedule.
Additional risk minimization measures:
Truvada for PrEP indication education program for prescribers.
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities
None.
Important Identified 
Risk
Development of Resistance in Patients with Unrecognized or Acute HIV-1 
Infection (PrEP Indication)
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Development of resistance in patients with unrecognized or acute HIV-1 infection has 
been reported infrequently during the use of Truvada for the PrEP indication in 
clinical trials, in the postmarketing setting and in the literature.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s)
Subjects with undiagnosed HIV-1 on Truvada for PrEP.
Routine risk minimization measure:
SmPC Sections 4.3 and 4.4
PL Section 2
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific clinical measures to 
address the risk:
SmPC Section 4.4: Warning on confirming individuals to be HIV-negative prior to 
initiating Truvada and at frequent intervals (e.g., at least every 3 months) while taking 
Truvada for PrEP.
Additional risk minimization measures:
Truvada for PrEP indication education program for prescribers.
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities
None.
Missing information
Safety in Pregnancy and Lactation
Important Identified 
Risk
HIV-1 Acquisition, Including Infection Resulting From Non-adherence (PrEP 
Indication)
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s)
Routine risk minimization measure:
SmPC Section 4.6
PL Section: 2
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorization plan.
II.C.
Post-authorization Development Plan
II.C.1.
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Truvada.
II.C.2.
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan
Table Part VI.3.
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan
Short Study Name
Purpose of the Study
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
(Non-interventional study)
Objectives:
To collect information on the risk of birth defects in patients exposed to 
FTC and TDF during pregnancy.
Safety concern(s) addressed:
Missing information: Safety in pregnancy and lactation
