1. 
Introduction 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Truvada, which contains 200 mg emtricitabine and 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil (equivalent to 300 mg 
tenofovir  disoproxil fumarate  or 136  mg  of tenofovir) in  each  film-coated tablet, is intended  for the 
treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection in adults.  
Truvada  is  a  new  fixed  dose  combination  of  previously  known  active  substances:  emtricitabine,  a 
nucleoside  reverse transcriptase inhibitor  and tenofovir  disoproxil (as  fumarate), the  oral prodrug  of 
tenofovir, a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor.  
Medicinal  products  containing  emtricitabine  (200 mg  hard  capsule)  and  tenofovir  disoproxil  (as 
fumarate) (245 mg film-coated tablet)  have already been approved through the centralised procedure 
for the treatment of HIV infection.  
Truvada has been developed using the same doses and regimens as for the individual compounds. 
In  the  context  of  a  chronic  disease  where  non-adherence  is  a  critical  problem  with  potential 
consequence  in  terms  of  risk  of  emergence  of  resistance,  the  development  of  a  fixed  combination 
together with a once daily regimen could be a way of alleviating the constraints of patients.  
The approved indication is: 
“Truvada is a fixed dose combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.  It is 
indicated in antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults. 
The  demonstration  of  the  benefit  of  the  combination  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  disoproxil 
fumarate  in  antiretroviral  therapy  is  based  solely  on  studies  performed  in  treatment-naïve 
patients.” 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Composition 
Truvada is presented as film-coated tablets containing a fixed combination of 200 mg of emtricitabine 
and 245 mg of tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate), equivalent to 136 mg of tenofovir. 
The  other  ingredients  include  croscarmellose  sodium,  lactose  monohydrate,  magnesium  stearate, 
microcrystalline  cellulose,  pregelatinised  starch,  glycerol  triacetate,  hypromellose,  indigo  carmine 
aluminium lake (E132) and titanium dioxide (E171). 
The  tablets  are  packed  in  HDPE  bottle  containing  silica  gel  desiccant  with  a  child  resistant  cap 
containing an aluminium foil inner seal. 
Active Substances  
Emtricitabine 
Emtricitabine  is  a  nucleoside  analogue  of  cytidine  and  is  also  the  active  substance  of  a  centrally 
authorised  medicinal  product  (EU/1/03/261/01-03).  Changes  to  the  Quality  documentation  for 
emtricitabine  included  in  the  MAA  for  Truvada  have  recently  been  implemented  to  the  already 
authorised product via a type II variation (EMEA/H/C/533/II/12). 
Manufacture 
• 
An  additional  manufacturer is introduced along  with  an additional synthesis route. Compared to the 
current  process  involving  a  chiral  resolution  catalysed  by  an  enzyme  of  porcine  origin,  the  new 
1/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
process is purely synthetic. The specifications proposed  for starting  materials, reagents  and solvents 
are acceptable. In addition, satisfactory in process controls and controls on the isolated intermediates 
have been established in order to ensure production of an active substance of consistent quality. 
The  potential  virus  safety  risk  associated  with  the  enzyme  of  porcine  origin  used  in  the  current 
synthesis has been satisfactorily addressed. 
Comparative  batch  analysis  data  for  emtricitabine  produced  by  the  2  processes  by  the  different 
manufacturers show that the physical properties of the active remain unchanged. 
The  impurity  profile  of  emtricitabine  synthesised  by  the  new  process  has  been  fully  characterised. 
Two potential impurities appear to be specific to it, although one of them has not been observed in any 
of the batches produced so far.  
Specification 
• 
The  active  substance  specification  include  tests  for  appearance,  identity  (IR  and  HPLC),  assay, 
impurities, enantiomeric purity, residual solvents (GC), heavy metals (PhEur), sulphated ash (PhEur), 
water content (PhEur), particle size and clarity of solution (PhEur). 
As  a  consequence  of  the  introduction  of  the  new  process,  changes  have  been  made  to  the  active 
substance specifications including introduction of a limit for the new impurity and for a new residual 
solvent. The limit  for the  new impurity  observed at levels above the  ICH identification threshold  of 
0.1% has been justified in relation to intake in toxicological studies. Control for residual solvents are 
in  line  with  ICH  recommendations.  Minor  changes  have  been  made  as  well  to  the  analytical 
procedures and are supported by satisfactory validation data. 
Batch  analysis data provided  for 6 development and  clinical batches  of  emtricitabine synthesised by 
the new process at the two synthesis sites together with 10 batches synthesised by the current synthesis 
comply with the specifications. 
Stability 
• 
Stability data have been provided for 4 stability batches synthesised using the new process. 1-year data 
under long-term conditions (25°C/60% RH – commercial packaging) is available for 2 batches. Under 
accelerated conditions up to 9-month data is available.  
The  physicochemical  stability  of  emtricitabine  synthesised  by  the  2  processes  is  comparable  and 
support the currently authorised packaging material, retest period and storage conditions. 
The  applicant  committed  to  include  the  first  3  commercial  batches  of  the  new  process  from  each 
manufacturer into the accelerated and long-term studies. 
Tenofovir 
Tenofovir is a nucleotide analogue of adenosine and it is the active substance of an already centrally 
authorised medicinal product (EU/1/01/200/001).  The Truvada MAA included only a few changes to 
the quality documentation compared to the one approved for the centrally authorised product referred 
above.  
Manufacture 
• 
A new synthesis site is introduced together with a batch size increase. Batch analysis data provided for 
3  batches  manufactured  at  the  new  site  are  within  specification  and  support  the  new  batch  size. 
Confirmation has been given that there is no change to the synthesis process other than the scale of the 
equipment used. This will be the case as well during scale-up at the other authorised synthesis sites.    
2/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specification 
• 
No change has been made to the currently approved specification for tenofovir, which include tests for 
appearance,  identity  (IR,  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  enantiomeric  purity  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC), 
residual solvents (GC), heavy metals (PhEur), clarity of solution, water content (PhEur), particle size, 
and differential scanning calorimetry. 
Batch  analysis  data  provided  for  3  commercial  batches  from  each  of  the  currently  authorised 
manufacturer and for 3 pilot scale batches for the new manufacturer show no significant differences in 
quality of the active substance. 
Stability 
• 
Stability  data  are  available  for  commercial  batches  synthesised  at  each  already  authorised  synthesis 
site  under  accelerated  conditions  (25°C/60%  RH  –  commercial  packaging)  for  6  months  and  under 
long-term conditions (5°C – commercial packaging) for 2 years. The applicant committed to enter the 
first 3 commercial batches synthesised at the new site into accelerated and long-term studies using the 
current approved stability protocol. The photostability of tenofovir has been previously demonstrated.  
On  this  basis,  the  currently  approved  packaging  material,  retest  period  and  storage  conditions  for 
tenofovir remain acceptable. 
Medicinal Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
• 
The  proposed  medicinal  product  combining  the  currently  approved  doses  of  emtricitabine  and 
tenofovir  into  a  single  tablet  to  be  administered  once  daily  intends  to  support  patient  adherence  to 
treatment. 
Emtricitabine is a high solubility/high permeability substance, while tenofovir is a high solubility/low 
permeability substance. The  fumarate salt  of the  diester prodrug  of tenofovir  has  consequently  been 
selected so as to increase intestinal permeability and to improve the bioavailability of this active. 
Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate are both susceptible to hydrolysis in aqueous solution 
and  to  a  smaller  extent,  they  degrade  in  high  moisture/temperature  conditions  with  a  possibility  of 
incompatibility  between  the  2  actives  and  associated  degradation  products.  All  the  potential 
degradants are adequately controlled as part of the specification of the finished product. 
A  wet  granulation  has  been  chosen  over  a  dry  granulation  in  order  to  minimise  the  effect  of  the 
physico-chemical properties of the active substances on processing and blend uniformity. Control  of 
the amount  of  unbound  water during  manufacture and in  the  finished product  enhances to  minimise 
any potential degradation. In addition, the amount of moisture in the bottle headspace is minimised by 
using a HPDE bottle with a low permeability in term of water vapour transmission rate, by using a cap 
with an aluminium foil inner seal and by including a silica gel desiccant in the packaging. The HPDE 
bottle and the polypropylene cap meet the general Ph. Eur. requirements for plastic primary packaging 
material. Confirmation has been given that the silica gel desiccant is suitable for contact with food. 
The disintegration of the tablets has been satisfactorily investigated in 100 ml of water, grape juice and 
orange  juice  as  an  alternative  mean  of  administration  for  patients  who  are  unable  to  swallow  the 
tablets. The preparation should be taken immediately. 
All  the  excipients  are  commonly  used  for  this  kind  of  formulation  and  are  of  PhEur  quality  except 
indigo  carmine  blue  lake,  which  is  adequately  controlled  according  to  another  standard  and  is  an 
authorised colorant in the EU. 
Regarding the TSE risk, the lactose monohydrate from milk of bovine origin has been  considered in 
compliance  with  the  current  TSE  requirements.  The  magnesium  stearate  and  the  glycerol  triacetate 
used in the film coat are from vegetable origin. 
3/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bioequivalence 
• 
A bioequivalence study (GS-US-104-172) has been performed to investigate the bioequivalence of the 
proposed  combination tablet  versus the 2 separate  marketed products administered  concomitantly  in 
the fasted state and to investigate the food effect. The clinical formulation used in the bioequivalence 
study is identical to the commercial formulation. 
Bioequivalence has been demonstrated between the two formulations when administered in the fasting 
state. Tenofovir plasma concentration-time profiles appeared to be lower in the fasted state than in the 
fed  state  (high-fat  meal  or  light  meal).  Emtricitabine  pharmacokinetic  parameters  after  ingestion  of 
food  (high-fat  or  light  meal)  were  essentially  the  same  as  those  for  the  fasting  state.  The  CHMP 
considered  that  in  order  to  optimise  the  absorption  of  tenofovir,  it  is  recommended  to  take  Truvada 
with food (see clinical section). 
Manufacture of the Product 
• 
The manufacturing process involves the following operations: mixing, aqueous wet granulation, fluid 
bed drying, milling and blending, tabletting, film coating and packaging. Adequate in-process controls 
have been specified.  
Validation  data  provided  for  batches  up  to  commercial  scale  confirm  the  robustness  and 
reproducibility of the manufacturing process. 
Product Specification 
• 
The product specification includes tests controlled by validated methods for appearance, identity (UV 
and  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  impurity  content  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  content  (PhEur),  water  content 
(PhEur), dissolution (PhEur) and microbial limits (PhEur). 
Batch  analysis  data  provided  for  7  clinical  batches  manufactured  at  the  proposed  commercial 
manufacturing  site  comply  with  the  specifications  and  indicate  consistent  and  reproducible 
manufacture.  
Stability of the Product 
• 
Stability data are provided for 4 primary stability batches. Under long-term conditions (25°C/60%RH 
– commercial packaging) and intermediate conditions (30°C/60% RH - commercial packaging), 1 year 
data is available for 1 lot, 9-month data is available for 2 lots at 9 months and 6-month data is 
available for 1 lot. Accelerated data (40ºC/75%RH – commercial packaging) are available up to 6 
months. 
Photostability studies have shown that the medicinal product is non-light sensitive.  
The results presented support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  have  been  shown  to  have  antiviral  activity  against  HIV  and  have  been 
investigated individually in a comprehensive programme. The applicant has provided an overview of 
the comprehensive information on each active substance. No additional studies were conducted with 
the fixed dose combination except for a 14-day repeat dose rodent toxicity study with the fixed dose 
combination.  Previous  findings  with  the  individual  components  in  relation  to  pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and toxicology are summarised in the sections below. 
4/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Emtricitabine is a  nucleoside analogue  of  cytidine.  Tenofovir  disoproxil  fumarate  (tenofovir DF) is 
converted  in vivo  to  tenofovir,  a  nucleoside  monophosphate  (nucleotide)  analogue  of  adenosine 
monophosphate.  Both  substances  act  as  inhibitors  of  the  HIV  reverse  transcriptase  and  have  been 
shown  to  be  active  against  laboratory  and  clinical  isolates  of  HIV-1  (EC50  values  for  emtricitabine 
ranged from 0.0013 to 0.5 µ M and IC50 for tenofovir was 2.3 µM). 
Emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  are  phosphorylated  by  cellular  enzymes  through  non-overlapping 
pathways  to  form  emtricitabine  triphosphate  and  tenofovir  diphosphate,  respectively.    When  both 
substances  are  incubated  together  in  vitro  at  concentrations  higher  than  achieved  in  the  plasma  
(10  µ M  each),  complete  conversion  to  the  fully  activated  forms  of  each  substance  is  observed.    As 
tenofovir  diphosphate  and  emtricitabine  triphosphate  are  alternative  substrates  for  different  natural 
substrates (dATP and dCTP, respectively), there should be no competition for incorporation by HIV 
reverse transcriptase and subsequent DNA chain termination. In support of this, the antiviral activity 
of the combination of tenofovir and emtricitabine has been found to be synergistic in multiple in-vitro 
assay  systems.  Using  the  LAI  strain  of  HIV-1  at  a  multiplicity  of  infection  (MOI)  of  0.03  in  MT-2 
cells, there was demonstrable synergy between tenofovir and emtricitabine in an isobologram analysis. 
More  recently,  a  study  was  performed  using  the  LAI  strain  and  a  clinical  HIV-1  recombinant 
containing a wild-type RT and protease gene (MM-317) each at MOIs of 0.03 and 0.1. Analyses by 
MacSynergy and by isobolograms showed that the combination was synergistic and the isobologram 
analysis gave p-values ≤ 0.0017 for all infections.   
Tenofovir diphosphate has a prolonged intracellular half-life ranging from 12 to 50 hours inactivated 
and  resting  blood  mononuclear  cells  (PMBCs).  The  intracellular  half-life  of  emtricitabine 
triphosphates in PMBCs in vivo is approximately 39 hours. These long intracellular half-lives support 
a once daily dose regimen. 
The antiviral activity of the combination of tenofovir and emtricitabine was demonstrated in vivo.  In a 
32  week  study  in  the  SIV  macaque  model,  the  combination  of  tenofovir  and  emtricitabine 
administered  once  daily  by  subcutaneous  injection  resulted  in  full  suppression  of  plasma  SIV  in 
treated  animals. The  response  lasted  throughout  the  study  with  no  detectable  development  of 
resistance. 
Resistance 
On serial passage of virus, resistance to emtricitabine developed rapidly (2-6 passages) as the result of 
a met to val or to isoleucine change at codon 184 (M184V and M184I). Emtricitabine-resistant viruses 
were  cross-resistant  to  lamivudine  but  generally  retained  sensitivity  to  other  nucleoside  reverse 
transcriptase  inhibitors  (NRTIs)  and  non  nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  (NNRTIs). 
Moderate  resistance  to  lamivudine  (mediated  by  E44D  or  V118I)  gave  moderate  resistance  to 
emtricitabine. Cross-resistance of a moderate degree was also observed in association with the K65R 
mutation  or the  MDR genotype  containing the T69S (SS) insertion. In a  cell  culture system,  viruses 
with  the  K65R  mutation  were  8-12-fold  less  susceptible  to  emtricitabine  than  wild  types  and  an 
enzymatic  study  indicated  a  5-fold  reduced  incorporation  of  emtricitabine  when  this  mutation  was 
present.   
The  K65R  mutation  was  obtained  with successive passage  of HIV-1 in increasing  concentrations  of 
tenofovir. The IC50 tenofovir was increased 3.4-fold for isolates with the K65R mutation and 1.5-fold 
for  isolates  with  M184V.  The  K65R  mutation  confers  cross-resistance  to  abacavir,  didanosine  and 
lamivudine. Passage  of  wild type  virus (HXB2) with  lamivudine and tenofovir  or  with  abacavir  and 
tenofovir did not select for M184V or M184I but did select for K65R and then later Y115F (associated 
with  reduced  susceptibility  to  abacavir).  HIV-1  isolates  with  resistance  to  zidovudine/lamivudine,  
+/- abacavir  with  2  to  4  thymidine  analogue  mutations  (TAMs)  were  inhibited  by  tenofovir  at 
concentrations within 2.2-fold the inhibitory concentration for wild-type virus. 
5/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  in-vitro  evaluation  of  the  potential  for  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  to  select  for  resistance  when 
used  together  has  been  performed  in  MT-2  cells.  Concentrations  began  at  half  the  EC50  values  for 
each. Results so far have shown viral replication at 16-fold the EC50 values and development of the 
M184I mutation from the 4th passage. No changes  at K65 have been observed. These results suggest 
that  the  use  of  Truvada  in  the  clinic  will  first  select  the  M184  V/I  mutation  and  later  the  K65R 
mutation. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Emtricitabine, inhibited HBV production in vitro, in HepG2 2.2.15 cells, with EC50 values that ranged 
from  0.01  to  0.04  µ M.  HBV  resistance  to  emtricitabine  has  been  observed  and  is  associated  with 
mutations in the YMDD motif of the HBV polymerase. 
Tenofovir is a potent and selective inhibitor  of HBV. It inhibited HBV production  in HepG2  2.2.15 
and HB611 cells with EC50 values of 1.1 and 2.5 µM respectively. 
The results of in vitro investigations suggest that emtricitabine and tenofovir have limited capacity to 
inhibit human DNA polymerases or to mediate cytotoxicity or mitochondrial damage. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
No  safety  pharmacology  studies  have  been  conducted  with  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  DF  in 
combination.  However,  neither  emtricitabine  nor  tenofovir  DF  alone  had  significant  unwanted 
pharmacological  activity  as  determined  in  different  studies  carried  out,  investigating  the  effects  on 
central nervous system, cardiovascular/respiratory, gastro-intestinal and renal systems. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Additive to synergistic effects were observed in combination studies with protease inhibitors and with 
nucleoside and non-nucleoside analogue inhibitors of HIV reverse transcriptase. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics profile of tenofovir DF and emtricitabine were evaluated in a variety of animal 
models using validated analytical methods. 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Emtricitabine 
Emtricitabine was rapidly and extensively absorbed in mice, rats and cynomolgus monkeys with oral 
bioavailability ranging from 58% to 97% and Tmax values of 0.5 to 2.5 hours over the dose range of 10 
to 600 mg/kg. Following single dose administration of emtricitabine, half-life values ranged from 1.02 
to  3.17  hours  in  the  species.  No  differences  were  noted  between  single  and  repeat  dose 
pharmacokinetic studies.  
Tenofovir DF 
Following  oral absorption  of the prodrug, tenofovir DF,  absorption and  conversion to tenofovir  was 
rapid,  with  maximal  concentrations  of  tenofovir  in  plasma  reached  between  0.25  to  1.5  hours  post-
dose in all species (mice, rats, woodchucks, dogs and monkeys). The oral bioavailability ranged from 
20%  to  46%  in  the  species.    Terminal  half-life  values  were  respectively  7  hours  in  rats,  9  hours  in 
monkeys  and  60  hours  in  dogs.  No  gender  differences  were  observed.  In  rats  and  monkeys, 
pharmacokinetics parameters were similar after single or repeated administration. On the contrary, in 
dogs at the highest doses tested (10 or 30 mg/kg) systemic exposure (Cmax and AUC) was increased 2 
to  3  fold  after  28  days  of  treatment.  The  values  then  remain  constant  up  to  end  of  the  study  (42 
weeks). This could suggest an accumulation.  
6/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Distribution 
Both  substances  widely  distributed.  Both  substances  crossed the  placenta  but  did  not  concentrate  in 
foetal tissues. Tenofovir was excreted in milk  from lactating rats (milk/plasma concentration ratio of 
11-23.5  %).  In vitro,  the  protein  binding  of  both  substances  was  very  negligible  and  therefore 
interaction due to protein binding displacement would be unlikely.  
• 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) and excretion 
There  was  limited  metabolism  of  emtricitabine.  Biotransformation  included  oxidation  of  the  thiol 
moiety  to  form  the  3’-sulfoxide  diastereomer  and  conjugation  with  glucuronic  acid  to  form  the  
2’-0-glucuronide. The 3’-sulfoxide  diastereomer  was the principal  metabolite, which represented 2% 
of dose in mice, 2.7% in rats and from 6% to 11% of dose in monkeys.  Other metabolites collectively 
represented less than 2% of dose.  
In  vitro,  tenofovir  DF  was  rapidly  converted  to  monoester  (tenofovir  soproxil)  which  is  the  major 
intracellular metabolite and tenofovir. Tenofovir DF metabolism was studied in vivo in male rats, with 
14C-labeled  tenofovir  DF  by  oral  and  intravenous  route.  Tenofovir  was  the  principal  metabolite. 
Tenofovir soproxil formation was transitional. 
In vitro studies determined that neither tenofovir disoproxil fumarate nor tenofovir were substrates for 
the CYP450 enzymes. Neither emtricitabine nor tenofovir inhibited in vitro metabolism mediated by 
any of the major human CYP450 isoforms involved in biotransformation of compounds.  Also, 
′
emtricitabine did not inhibit uridine-5
glucuronidation. 
-diphosphoglucuronyl transferase, the enzyme responsible for 
Tenofovir was excreted unchanged in the urine in rats and dogs and renal excretion was identified as 
the primary  route of  elimination. For  emtricitabine,  renal  excretion  of  unchanged substance  was the 
principal route of elimination in mice, rats and dogs. Data suggested that the substance was eliminated 
by  active  tubular  secretion.    It  was  considered  unlikely  that  there  would  be  an  interaction  affecting 
elimination. 
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
Emtricitabine 
Single doses up to 4000 mg/kg orally or 200 mg/kg i.v. in mice and rats were well tolerated without 
signs of target organ toxicity. 
Tenofovir DF 
There  were no signs  of toxicity in rats given  oral  doses  up to 1500  mg/kg. In  dogs, the NOEL  was 
30 mg/kg since treatment-related lesions in the  kidneys characterised by tubular karyomegaly  and/or 
basophilia were observed with oral doses equivalent to 90 and 270 mg/kg.  
• 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Tenofovir DF 
Studies  were  performed  in  mice  with  doses  up  to  1000/600  mg/kg/day  for  13  weeks,  in  rats for  28 
days, 13 and 42 weeks with doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day, in dogs with doses up to 30 mg/kg/day for 
28 days, 13 and 42  weeks and in  monkeys  with  doses up to 600  mg/kg/day  for  56  days. The target 
organs of toxicity were the gastrointestinal tract (primary in rodents), the renal tubular epithelium and 
bone.  In  rodents,  gastro-intestinal  alterations  typically  included  inflammation  of  the  stomach  and 
intestines, epithelial hypertrophy or hyperplasia in the duodenum and jejunum, and villous atrophy of 
the 
than 
ileum.  These  gastro-intestinal effects  occurred  at  high  doses,  generally  greater 
300 mg/kg/day,  and  are  thought  to  be  due  to  high  local  concentrations  of  tenofovir  DF  or  its 
hydrolysis products.  
7/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tubular  epithelial  karyomegaly  and 
With respect to renal toxicity, the dog was the most sensitive species. The karyomegaly observed in 
the renal tubular  epithelium  of all species  was  considered a  morphologic  change  without pathologic 
consequence.  Microscopic alterations in dogs treated for 42 weeks at doses ≥ 10 mg/kg/day included 
renal 
tubular  dilatation, 
degeneration/regeneration, pigment  accumulation,  and  interstitial  nephritis.    The  incidence,  severity, 
and reversibility of renal histopathological changes were related to the dose and duration of treatment. 
Bone  effects,  characterised  as  reduced  bone  mineral  density  and  content  with  accompanying 
biochemical changes, were noted in rats (≥ 300 mg/kg/day) and dogs (30 mg/kg/day).  The NOEL for 
bone  effects  was  100 mg/kg/day  in  rats  and  10 mg/kg/day  in  dogs.  Findings  in  the  rat  and  monkey 
studies indicated that there was a substance-related decrease in intestinal absorption of phosphate with 
potential  secondary  reduction  in  bone  mineral  density.  The  mechanisms  of  these  toxicities  are  not 
completely understood. 
individual  cell  necrosis, 
Emtricitabine 
Treatment related effects were confined to the high-dose groups and included: 
- mild, reversible anaemia (mice 1 and 6 months, rats 3 months and monkeys 1 year) 
- changes in various organ weight without any associated adverse histopathological effects in rodents 
(mice 1 and 6 months, rats 3 months) 
- increased urine output (mice 6 months) and soft faeces (monkeys 1 and 3 months).  
Doses produced systemic exposure much greater than those anticipated in clinic.  
Emtricitabine/tenofovir DF combination 
A  14-day  study  was  conducted  in  male  CD-rats  administered  by  gavage  emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF 
combination product with doses up to 200/300 mg/kg/day. The ratio between the two substances was 
similar as the one to be used in clinics. Administration of the emtricitabine/tenofovir DF tablet did not 
exacerbate  the  known  toxicities  of  the  individual  agents.  The  NOAEL  was  estimated  to  be  
67  /100 mg/kg/day.  At  the  highest  dose  tested  (200/300mg/kg/day),  an  hyperplasia  of  the  anterior 
duodenal  mucosa  was  noted  but  this  was  considered  to  be  due  to  the  formaldehyde  release  from 
tenofovir DF formulation as previously observed with the individual compound.  
To  examine  the  potential  for  an  exacerbation  of  renal  effects  in  the  more  sensitive  species,  the 
applicant undertook to conduct a one month study of emtricitabine and tenofovir DF in combination in 
the dog, the results of which will be submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-
authorisation.   
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
Emtricitabine was not mutagenic in a battery of tests. Tenofovir DF was positive for inducing forward 
mutations  in  the  in-vitro  mouse  lymphoma  cell  assay  in  the  presence  or  absence  of  S9  metabolic 
activation.  Tenofovir  DF  was  also  positive  in  the  Ames  test  (strain  TA  1535)  in  2  out  of  3  studies, 
once in the presence of S9 (6.2 to 6.98 fold-increase) and once without S9. It was also weakly positive 
in  an  in-vivo  /  in-vitro  UDS  test  in  primary  rat  hepatocytes.  There  was  no  clastogenic  effect  in  the 
mouse bone marrow micronucleus test. 
A  concern  was  raised  for potential increased  genotoxicity  with  combination  antiretroviral treatment.  
Indeed combination of zidovudine and didanosine has been reported to potentiate genetic damage in 
human cells in vitro [Meng, 2000] and in CD-1 mice in vivo [Bishop, 2004]. The applicant undertook 
therefore to investigate in vitro whether co-administration of emtricitabine with tenofovir DF has the 
potential to enhance the genotoxic potential of tenofovir DF, the results of which will be submitted as 
part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
References: 
-  Meng Q, Walker DM, Olivero OA, Shi X, Antiochos BB, Poirier MC, and Walker VE (2000). Zidovudine–didanosine 
coexposure potentiates DNA incorporation of zidovudine and mutagenesis in human cells. Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences, 97, 12667-12671. 
8/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Bishop  JB,  Witt  KL,  Tice  RR,  and  Wolfe  GW  (2004).  Genetic  damage  detected  in  CD-1  mouse  pups  exposed 
perinatally  to  3’-azido-3’-deoxythymidine  and  dideoxyinosine  via  maternal  dosing,  nursing,  and  direct  gavage. 
Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis, 43, 3-9. 
• 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Emtricitabine 
The studies  did  not show any  carcinogenic potential in  mice  with doses up to 750  mg/kg/day  nor in 
rats with doses up to 600 mg/kg/day. Although in these studies the highest dose of emtricitabine did 
not  reach  the  maximum  tolerable  dose,  this  was  considered  acceptable  given  that  animals  were 
exposed to approximately 25 fold of human exposure. 
Tenofovir DF 
The rat carcinogenicity study with doses up to 300 mg/kg/day by gavage for 2 years was negative. In 
mice,  there  was  a  low  incidence  of  duodenal  neoplasms  occurring  only  at  the  high  dose  of 
600 mg/kg/day. At this dose, the systemic AUCss was 15 times the human one at the therapeutic dose.  
These findings were considered likely related to high local concentrations in the gastrointestinal tract. 
While the mechanism of tumour formation is uncertain, the findings are unlikely to be of relevance to 
humans. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Emtricitabine 
Emtricitabine had no effects on fertility at dose of 1000 mg/kg/day for the mice and 3000 mg/kg/day 
for the rats.  
Emtricitabine  was  neither  embryotoxic  nor  teratogenic  in  mice  and  rabbits  (doses  up  to 
1000 mg/kg/day). 
In peri- and post natal toxicity study in mice in which emtricitabine was administered at doses up to 
1000 mg/kg/day, no treatment-related effects were observed.  
Overall, emtricitabine did not produce adverse effects on reproduction at dose up to 1000 mg/kg/day, a 
dose level at which plasma AUC exposure were about 60 fold in mice and 120 fold in rabbits higher 
than in humans given emtricitabine at the therapeutic dose. 
Tenofovir DF 
Tenofovir  DF 
rats. 
fertility 
Tenofovir DF was neither embryotoxic in rats (doses up to 450 mg/kg/day) nor in rabbits (doses up to 
300 mg/kg/day). 
performed 
studies 
impact 
had 
the 
no 
on 
in 
in 
In peri- and  post natal toxicity study in rats, administered  doses  up to 600 mg/kg/day, tenofovir DF 
significantly  reduced  pups  survival  and  animal  weights.  The  viability  index  was  reduced  in  the 
450 mg/kg/day group and significantly reduced in 600 mg/kg/day. A slight delay in sexual maturation 
  450  mg/kg/day  and  slightly  longer  oestrous  cycles  that  did  not  affect  reproductive 
was  noted  at 
performance.  The  maternal  NOEL  was  50  mg/kg/day  and  the  F1  no  adverse  effect  dose  was 
150 mg/kg/day. 
≥
• 
Local tolerance  
Tenofovir DF was a severe irritant to the ocular tissue of the rabbit, a slight irritant to the skin of the 
rabbit and was not a contact sensitizer in guinea pigs. No studies were conducted with emtricitabine 
neither with the combination. 
9/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Emtricitabine did not produce any immunotoxic effects in CD-rats with doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day 
during 28 days. Given that the long-term toxicity studies with emtricitabine or tenofovir DF alone in 
several species, at multiples of human exposure, have  not demonstrated any  changes in haematology 
parameters  or  lymphoid  organs  that  were  considered  to  be  signs  of  immunotoxicity,  and  clinical 
experience  with  emtricitabine  and 
in  combination,  no 
immunotoxicological  effects with the  combination  of  emtricitabine/tenofovir DF would be  expected.  
The applicant undertook  however to include  characterisation  of the lymphocyte subsets and NK  cell 
activity in the one month study of the combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir DF in the dog.  
tenofovir  DF,  either  alone  or 
The potential for mitochondrial toxicity of emtricitabine was assessed as part of repeat dose toxicity 
studies performed in mice and cynomolgus monkeys. No treatment related mitochondrial toxicity was 
noted.  In vitro studies in HepG2 cells are ongoing. 
The potential for mitochondrial toxicity of tenofovir DF was investigated in a 28 day study in rats and 
in  a  90  day  study  in  woodchucks.  In  these  studies,  several  parameters  were  assessed,  including: 
cytochrome c oxidase, citrate synthase and mitochondrial DNA content of liver, kidney, skeletal and 
cardiac muscle. No evidence of mitochondrial injury was noted, based on these parameters. Moreover, 
in the  56 days repeat-dose toxicity study performed in  monkeys, there  was  no sign of  mitochondrial 
dysfunction.   
The identified metabolites of either emtricitabine or tenofovir DF were assessed as part of the routine 
toxicology and qualification of impurities studies. The fixed dose combination tablet of emtricitabine/ 
tenofovir DF is not anticipated to produce any new metabolites. 
The impurities and degradation products present in the fixed-dose combination tablets were qualified 
through  the  14-day  duration  study  in  rats  with  crushed  tablets  both  experimentally  degraded  and 
undegraded (high heat and humidity). 
In  a  study  assessing 
(20-30 mg/kg/day subcutaneous) and emtricitabine (50 mg/kg/day subcutaneous) to SIV-infected pig-
tailed monkeys for up to 6 months caused no obvious adverse effects at dose levels many times higher 
than the intended clinical dosages. 
infection,  co-administration  of 
the  efficacy  against  SIV 
tenofovir  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Based  on  an  analysis  of  the  environmental  risk  posed  by  the  use  of  emtricitabine,  tenofovir  DF, 
individually and in the fixed combination, no significant risk to the environment related to the use of 
Truvada is anticipated. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  DF  have  already  been  approved  as  separate  medicinal  products  for  the 
treatment  of  HIV  in  the  EU.  Truvada  combines  the  two  substances  with  the  same  dose  as  the  ones 
approved  for  the  individual  compounds.  Consequently  the  clinical  development  programme  focused 
on  the  demonstration  of  the  absence  of  interaction  between  the  two  substances  and  of  the 
bioequivalence  between  the  fixed  combination  of  tenofovir  DF/emtricitabine  and  the  individual 
compounds  administered  concurrently.  At  the  time  of  the  submission  of  the  application,  very 
preliminary  data  were provided on two  clinical studies in antiretroviral  naïve patients to support the 
clinical  efficacy  and  safety  of  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  when  used  together  within  antiretroviral 
therapies. Further data on these studies were subsequently submitted at the time of the responses to the 
list of questions. 
10/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant claimed that all studies were performed according to Good Clinical Practices. 
An overall of the clinical studies are displayed in table 1. 
Table 1: Overview of the clinical studies  
Study No 
FTC-114 
(interaction 
study) 
Design 
Open-label  
single centre 
3 way cross-over of 
tenofovir DF and 
emtricitabine 
Population 
Healthy Volunteers  
Enrolled :  19 (15M, 
4 F)– Completed : 17 
subjects 
GS-US-104-172 
(bioequivalence 
study) 
Randomised, open label 
4 treatment single 
centre, 4 way cross 
over. 
Healthy volunteers 
Enrolled: 44 
(26 M / 18 F) 
Completed: 39  
Main clinical studies 
GS-01-934 
Phase 3, 48 weeks 
Randomised, open-
label parallel active 
control 
24 weeks data available 
Antiretroviral naïve, 
HIV-1 infected adult 
patients 
Planned 500 (250 in 
each arm) 
 M02-418 
(GS-02-982) 
Randomised, open-
label, multicentre, 
active controlled study 
48 weeks data available 
Antiretroviral-naive, 
HIV-1 
infected 
patients  with  plasma 
HIV-1 RNA levels > 
1 000 copies/ml.  
Planned: 200 (120 in 
QD and 80 in BID) 
Randomised: 196 
patients 118 in the 
QD group and 78 in 
the BID group 
Enrolled: 190 
patients 115 in the 
QD group and 75 in 
the BID group. 
Treatment 
Treatment A: 200 mg emtricitabine, 
administered once daily (QD) in the morning for 
7 consecutive days (with breakfast) 
Treatment B: 300 mg tenofovir DF, 
administered QD in the morning for 
7 consecutive days (with breakfast) 
Treatment C: 200 mg emtricitabine and 300 mg 
tenofovir DF co-administered QD for 
7 consecutive days (with breakfast) 
There was no washout interval between 
successive treatments.  
Treatment A: Tenofovir DF 300mg (single 
tablet) + emtricitabine 200mg (single capsule), 
fasting conditions 
Treatment B: Tenofovir DF 300mg/ 
emtricitabine 200mg (combined tablet), fasting 
conditions 
Treatment C: Tenofovir DF 300mg/ 
emtricitabine 200mg (combined tablet), high-fat 
meal conditions 
Treatment D: Tenofovir DF 300mg/ 
emtricitabine 200mg (combined tablet), light 
meal conditions 
Group  1:  Tenofovir  DF  300mg  QD  + 
emtricitabine  200mg  QD  +  efavirenz  600mg 
QD* 
Group  2:  lamivudine  150  mg  /  zidovudine 
300mg BID + efavirenz 600mg OD* 
*If  efavirenz-associated  central  nervous 
system 
toxicity  occurred,  nevirapine  200mg  BID  could  be 
substituted for EFV 
Group  1:  Lopinavir  800mg  /  ritonavir  200mg 
QD  +  tenofovir  DF  300mg  +  emtricitabine 
200mg 
Group  2:  Lopinavir  400mg  /  ritonavir  100mg 
BID  +  tenofovir  DF  300mg  +  emtricitabine 
200mg 
11/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics profile of tenofovir DF and emtricitabine as individual compounds have already 
been assessed. The pharmacokinetic programme for the fixed dose combination consisted therefore of: 
- one pharmacokinetic interaction study (study FTC-114) aiming at evaluating the potential interaction 
between tenofovir DF and emtricitabine 
- one study evaluating the bioequivalence and the food influence between the fixed dose combination 
versus the commercially available individual medicinal products (study GS-US-104-172). 
A brief summary of the major pharmacokinetic parameters for each individual compound is presented 
below for reference. 
•  Emtricitabine 
Emtricitabine  was  rapidly  and  extensively  absorbed  following  oral  administration  with  peak  plasma 
concentrations  occurring  at  1 to 2 hours  post-dose.  Under  fasting  conditions, 
the  absolute 
bioavailability  of  emtricitabine  from  the  hard  capsules  (200 mg)  was  estimated  to  be  93 %. 
Administration  of  emtricitabine  with  a  high-fat  meal  did  not  affect  systemic  exposure  (AUC0-inf)  of 
emtricitabine.  Emtricitabine  is  therefore  recommended  as  a  once  daily  regimen  to  be  administered 
with or without food. 
Following  intravenous  administration  the  steady-state  volume  of  distribution  of  emtricitabine  was 
approximately  1.4  l/kg.  After  oral  administration,  emtricitabine  widely  distributed  throughout  the 
body.  In  vitro  binding  of  emtricitabine  to  human  plasma  proteins  was  <  4%  and  independent  of 
concentration over the range of 0.02 to 200 µg/ml. 
There  was  limited  metabolism  of  emtricitabine.    The  biotransformation  of  emtricitabine  includes 
oxidation of the thiol moiety to form the 3'-sulphoxide diastereomers (approximately 9% of dose) and 
conjugation with glucuronic acid to form 2'-O-glucuronide (approximately 4% of dose). 
Emtricitabine  did  not  inhibit  in vitro  metabolism  mediated  by  the  following  human  CYP450 
isoenzymes:  1A2,  2A6,  2B6,  2C9,  2C19,  2D6  and  3A4.  Also,  emtricitabine  did  not  inhibit 
uridine-5
′
-diphosphoglucuronyl transferase, the enzyme responsible for glucuronidation. 
Emtricitabine was primarily excreted by the  kidneys with complete recovery of the dose achieved in 
urine  (approximately  86%)  and  faeces  (approximately  14%).  Thirteen  percent  of  the  emtricitabine 
dose  was  recovered  in  urine  as  three  metabolites.  The  systemic  clearance  of  emtricitabine  averaged 
307  ml/min.  Following  oral  administration, 
the  elimination  half-life  of  emtricitabine  was 
approximately 10 hours. 
•  Tenofovir DF 
After single oral administration in fasted state, tenofovir DF was rapidly absorbed, with time to peak 
concentration (Tmax) of approximately 1 hour, and was converted to tenofovir. After a high fat meal, 
Tmax was delayed by approximately 1 hour. Cmax and AUC were enhanced by a high-fat meal (AUC0-t 
∞
and AUC0-
 were 40% higher following administration with food). Tenofovir DF is recommended as a 
once-daily regimen to be taken with food.  
Following  intravenous  administration,  the  steady-state  volume  of  distribution  of  tenofovir  was 
approximately  0.8  l/kg.  After  oral  administration,  tenofovir  DF  widely  distributed  throughout  the 
body.  In  vitro  protein  binding  of  tenofovir to  plasma  or  serum  protein  was  less  than  0.7  and  7.2%, 
respectively, over the tenofovir concentration range 0.01 to 25 µg/ml.  
In  vitro  studies  determined  that  neither  tenofovir  DF  nor  tenofovir  were  substrates  for the  CYP450 
enzymes. Tenofovir did not inhibit in vitro metabolism mediated by any of the major human CYP450 
isoforms involved in biotransformation of compounds.  
12/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenofovir was primarily excreted renally with approximately 70-80% of the dose excreted unchanged 
in  urine  following  intravenous  administration.  The  systemic  clearance  of  tenofovir  averaged 
approximately  300  ml/min.  Renal  clearance  was  estimated  to  be  approximately  210  ml/min,  which 
was  in  excess  of  the  glomerular  filtration  rate.  This  indicated  that  active  tubular  secretion  is  an 
important part of the elimination of tenofovir. Following oral administration the elimination half-life 
of tenofovir was approximately 12 to 18 hours. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction between tenofovir and emtricitabine 
In-vitro phosphorylation  
The intracellular phosphorylation of tenofovir and emtricitabine to their active anabolites (tenofovir-
DP and FTC-TP) was investigated in vitro for potential antagonism. Free tenofovir and the mono- and 
di-phosphorylated  forms  (PMPA, PMPAp and PMPApp) were quantified as  well as FTC-TP. When 
M  each),  similar  levels  of  PMPApp  and 
tenofovir  and  emtricitabine  were  incubated  together  (10 
FTC-TP were observed at 2 and 24 hours as compared to the incubation of each alone.  
µ
Experiments  were  also  carried  out  using  a  pro-drug  of  tenofovir  (GS-7340)  that  more  efficiently 
delivered PMPA, PMPAp and PMPApp to cells to determine if higher levels of tenofovir metabolites 
could  affect  the  metabolism  of  emtricitabine  to  FTC-TP.  There  was  no  significant  effect  on  the 
anabolism  of  emtricitabine  compared  with  testing  alone  and  no  effects  were  seen  on  GS-7340 
anabolism with and without emtricitabine. 
In-vitro studies relevant to renal excretion  
Both emtricitabine and tenofovir are excreted mainly unchanged in the urine with active secretion into 
the  renal tubule.  In an in  vitro study,  a Xenopus  oocyte  expression system  was  used to  evaluate the 
interaction  of  adefovir,  cidofovir,  and  tenofovir  with  another  major  human  renal  organic  anion 
transporter  hOAT3  and  two  cation  transporters  hOCT1  and  hOCT2.  The  two  latter  were  unable  to 
transport any  of the tested nucleoside phosphonates but hOAT3  was  found to transport adefovir and 
tenofovir. At 100 µM, adefovir and tenofovir did not inhibit hOAT3 whereas 1,000 µM concentrations 
gave  23%  and  38%  inhibition,  respectively.  The  maximum  plasma  concentrations  of  adefovir  and 
tenofovir and their affinities towards hOAT1 and hOAT3 indicated that they had a low potential for 
interactions due to the inhibition of major renal transporters.   
Co-administration in vivo 
the  combination 
To  support 
the  steady  state 
pharmacokinetics  of  these  agents  when  administered  alone  and  together  were  evaluated  in  study 
FTC-114 in healthy volunteers. An outline of the study is presented in table 1. 
tablet  of  emtricitabine  and 
tenofovir  DF, 
A summary of the pharmacokinetic parameters following administration alone and then combined is 
presented in table 2. 
Table 2:  Emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir PK parameters 
Pharmacokinetic Parameter 
Geometric Mean 
FTC 
FTC + Tenofovir DF 
Geometric Least Square 
Means Ratio (90% CI) 
Emtricitabine PK Parameters 
AUCtau (hr•ug/ml) 
Cmax, ss (ug/ml) 
Cmin, ss (ug/ml) 
Tenofovir PK Parameters 
AUCtau (hr•ng/ml) 
Cmax, ss (ng/ml) 
Cmin, ss (ng/ml) 
10.00 
1.73 
0.06 
Tenofovir DF 
2768 
273 
52 
10.62 
1.67 
0.07 
Tenofovir DF + FTC 
2757 
281 
53 
1.065 
0.962 
1.201 
1.000 
1.026 
1.020 
(0.997, 1.137) 
(0.872, 1.061) 
(1.117, 1.291) 
(0.922, 1.086) 
(0.951, 1.106) 
(0.922, 1.128) 
13/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on ANOVA analysis, Cmax and AUC emtricitabine at steady state were not affected by tenofovir 
co-administration while Cmin,ss increased by approximately 20%. A similar analysis showed no notable 
effect of emtricitabine on the pharmacokinetics of tenofovir. 
The  data  support  the  lack  of  effect  on  the  steady  state  pharmacokinetics  of  either  substance  when 
emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  DF  are  co-administered  after  standard  breakfast  that  contained  a 
substantial amount of calories and fat. 
•  Bioequivalence 
Study  GS-104-172  was  an  open-label,  randomised,  four-way  crossover  study  in  healthy  volunteers. 
Subjects  were  assigned  to  a  treatment  sequence  according  to  a  computer-generated  randomisation 
scheme. The four treatments administered to subjects on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 were: 
A: 
emtricitabine  200 mg  (single  capsule)  +  tenofovir  DF  300 mg  (single  tablet),  fasting 
conditions 
emtricitabine 200 mg/Tenofovir  DF 300 mg 
conditions 
emtricitabine 200 mg/Tenofovir DF 300 mg (combined tablet), fed (high-fat meal) conditions 
emtricitabine 200 mg/Tenofovir DF 300 mg (combined tablet), fed (light meal) conditions 
(combined 
B: 
C: 
D: 
tablet), 
fasting 
The  high-fat  meal  contained  approximately  784 kcal,  comprising  approximately  58% fat, 
26% carbohydrates, and 16% protein.  The light  meal  contained approximately 373 kcal, comprising 
approximately 20% fat, 68% carbohydrates, and 12% protein.  
The  results  displayed  in  table  3  demonstrated  that  in  a  fasted  state,  the  fixed-dose  combination 
provides  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  DF  exposures  equivalent  to  those  provided  with  the  individual 
formulation given concurrently (90 % CI for treatment B/A of AUC and Cmax compatible with the pre-
defined hypothesis of bioequivalence (80 to 125 %). 
Table 3: 90% CI for GM Ratios of Emtricitabine and Tenofovir for Treatment B versus A 
Geometric Least Squares Means 
Treatment B 
(N = 39) 
Treatment A 
(N = 39) 
Geometric 
Mean Ratio 
(%) 
90% Confidence 
Interval 
Pharmacokinetic 
Parameter 
Emtricitabine PK 
Parameters 
Cmax 
AUC0−t 
AUC0−∞ 
Tenofovir DF PK 
Parameterss 
Cmax 
AUC0−t 
AUC0−∞ 
2.03
10.11 
10.42 
240.90 
1505.30 
1854.08 
2.11
10.10 
10.40 
256.20 
1505.00 
1848.43 
96.5 
100.1 
100.2 
94.0 
100.0 
100.3 
89.5−104.0 
95.9−104.5 
96.2−104.4 
85.8−103.0 
94.0−106.5 
94.6−106.3 
a 
b 
c 
Geometric least squares means are obtained by the back-transformation of least squares means of the parameters based on the natural 
logarithm scale. 
Treatment B = Tenofovir DF/emtricitabine combination tablet administered to fasted subject. 
Treatment A = co-administration of Tenofovir DF and emtricitabine to fasted subject. 
This  study  also  assessed  the  food  effect  either  as  a  high  fat  meal  or  a  light  fat  meal  on  the  PK 
parameter  of tenofovir DF and  emtricitabine  following administration  of the  fixed-dose  combination 
tablet. 
As shown in table 4, plasma tenofovir concentration-time profiles differed between treatment B (fixed 
dose  combination  under  fasted  conditions)  and  treatments C  (high-fat  meal)  and  D  (light  meal) 
although profiles  for treatments C and D were  very similar.  Concentrations  were lower in the  fasted 
state, as reported previously with tenofovir DF alone. 
14/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Tenofovir PK after Administration of fixed dose combination tablet to Fasted and Fed Subjects 
Tenofovir PK Parameter 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
Tmax (hr)d 
AUC0−t (ng(cid:127)hr/ml) 
AUC0−∞ (ng(cid:127)hr/ml) 
Treatment Ba 
(N = 39) 
Mean ± SD 
253.63 ± 83.46 
0.75 (0.50, 2.50) 
1605.84  ± 534.36 
1961.07  ± 594.47 
Treatment Cb 
(N = 39) 
Mean ± SD 
293.62 ± 87.77 
1.50 (0.50, 4.00) 
2246.78 ± 603.59 
2581.82 ± 643.86 
Treatment Dc 
(N = 39) 
Mean ± SD 
290.17 ± 96.34 
1.50 (0.50, 4.00) 
2207.18 ± 575.06 
2561.12 ± 628.86 
Treatment B = Tenofovir DF/emtricitabine combination tablet administered to fasted subject. 
Treatment C = Tenofovir DF/emtricitabine combination tablet administered with a high-fat meal. 
Treatment D = Tenofovir DF/emtricitabinecombination tablet administered with a light meal. 
a 
b 
c 
d  Median (min, max). 
Administration  of  the  combination  tablet  after  either  a  high-fat  or  light  meal  was  associated  with  a 
delay  in  the  tenofovir  Tmax  relative  to  the  fasted  state.  Both  high-fat  and  light  meals  increased  Cmax 
tenofovir (by approximately 16% and 13.5%, respectively) and there were corresponding increases of 
35%  and  34%  in  AUC0−∞.  On  comparing  the  two  fed  state  results  with  fasting  results,  the  90% 
confidence intervals  for the ratios  of geometric means  for Cmax  and  AUC0−∞  fell  outside the 80% to 
125% limits except for the comparison of Cmax between B and D (see table 5). 
Table 5: Effect of food on PK of tenofovir administered as fixed dose combination tablet 
Treatment C: 
Treatment B 
Treatment D: 
Treatment B 
Geometric Least Squares Means 
Treatment 
Cc 
(N = 39) 
Treatment 
Bb 
(N = 39) 
Treatment 
Dd 
(N = 39) 
Tenofovir PK 
Parameter 
279.52 
Cmax 
2162.02 
AUC0−t 
2499.27 
AUC0−∞ 
Treatment B = Tenofovir DF/FTC combination tablet administered to fasted subject. 
Treatment C = Tenofovir DF/FTC combination tablet administered with a high-fat meal. 
Treatment D = Tenofovir DF/FTC combination tablet administered with a light meal. 
240.90 
1505.30 
1854.08 
273.36 
2115.57 
2481.29 
116.0 
143.6 
134.8 
b 
c 
d 
Geometric 
Mean Ratio 
(%) 
90% 
Confidence 
Interval 
105.9−127.1 
134.9−152.9 
127.2−142.9 
Geometric 
Mean Ratio 
(%) 
113.5 
140.5 
133.8 
90% 
Confidence 
Interval 
103.6−124.3 
132.0−149.6 
126.2−141.9 
Emtricitabine  pharmacokinetic  parameters  after  ingestion  of  food  (high-fat  or  light  meal)  were 
essentially  the  same  as  those  for  the  fasting  state.  The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  the  ratios  of 
geometric means for Cmax and AUC0−∞ after either a high-fat or light meal were contained within 80% 
to 120%, indicating that the rate and extent of absorption of emtricitabine after ingestion of a meal or 
after  an  overnight  fast  were  similar. These  results indicate that  food intake  has  no  notable  effect  on 
emtricitabine pharmacokinetics (see table 6). 
Table 6: Food effect on PK Emtricitabine administered as the fixed dose combination tablet 
Emtricitabine 
PK Parameter 
Cmax 
AUC0−t 
AUC0−∞ 
Geometric Least Squares Means 
Treatment 
Cc 
(N = 39) 
Treatment 
Bb 
(N = 39) 
Treatment 
Dd 
(N = 39) 
Geometric 
Mean Ratio 
(%) 
2.03 
10.11 
10.42 
1.93 
9.77 
10.12 
1.96 
9.79 
10.15 
94.7 
96.7 
97.1 
90% 
Confidence 
Interval 
87.9−102.0 
92.7−100.9 
93.3−101.2 
Geometric 
Mean Ratio 
(%) 
96.6 
96.8 
97.4 
90% 
Confidence 
Interval 
89.6−104.0 
92.8−101.0 
93.5−101.5 
Treatment C: 
Treatment B 
Treatment D: 
Treatment B 
b 
c 
d  
Treatment B = Tenofovir DF/FTC combination tablet administered to fasted subject. 
Treatment C = Tenofovir DF/FTC combination tablet administered with a high-fat meal. 
Treatment D = Tenofovir DF/FTC combination tablet administered with a light meal. 
A  concern  was  raised  related  to  the  applicant’s  initially  proposed  dose  recommendation  to  be  taken 
with food or without food. In view of these data and the results from the clinical studies, the CHMP 
considered that in order to optimise the absorption of tenofovir, it was recommended to take Truvada 
with food. This has been included in the Summary Product Characteristics. 
A concern was also raised on the fact that the bioequivalence was tested in the fasted conditions. The 
applicant  has  adequately  addressed  this  point  showing  that  Truvada  tablets  would  provide  similar 
plasma  levels  of  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  to  those  obtained  after  administration  of  the  individual 
formulations of emtricitabine and tenofovir (alone or concomitantly) in the fed or fasted state. 
15/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction studies 
No  specific  study  has  been  performed  with  the  fixed-dose  combination  tablet,  however,  no  new 
interactions compared to the ones already known with each substance are expected. 
The information on the individual compounds relevant for the fixed combination has been mentioned 
in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Interaction between emtricitabine and tenofovir DF with lopinavir/ritonavir 
In study M02-418 (presented in table 1), the interaction between emtricitabine and tenofovir DF with 
lopinavir/ritonavir  (LPV/RTV)  was  assessed.  Emtricitabine  has  not  been  evaluated  previously  for 
effects on LPV/RTV pharmacokinetics. Co-administration of tenofovir and LPV/RTV twice daily for 
14  days  in  a  previous  study  gave  15%  decreases  in  Cmax  and  AUC  lopinavir  with  30%  increases  in 
these  parameters  for  tenofovir.  Similar  findings  for  tenofovir  but  not  for  lopinavir  were  obtained  in 
another  study  in  which  co-administration  was  in  the  fed  state.  These  results  were  unexpected  and 
remain unexplained.  
Overall, the  comparisons between previous  findings and the pharmacokinetic results from this  study 
do not allow for further comment on whether tenofovir exerts a consistent effect on plasma levels of 
lopinavir/ritonavir. Also, it is not possible to make a definitive statement regarding any possible effect 
of  emtricitabine  on  lopinavir/ritonavir.  However,  it  can  be  assumed  any  additional  effect  of 
emtricitabine that might exist is unlikely to be clinically relevant. 
•  Special populations 
Renal  impairment:  The  pharmacokinetics  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  have  not  been  studied  in 
patients  with  renal  impairment.  Since  no pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  emtricitabine  and 
Tenofovir DF was observed in FTC-114, it could be considered that the data obtained previously with 
the  individual  compounds  could  be  extrapolated  to  emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF as  a  fixed  dose 
combination.  
In  patients  with  creatinine  clearance  [CLCr]  50-80  ml/min,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  tenofovir  and 
emtricitabine were similar to data from healthy subjects and HIV-infected patients with normal renal 
function (supported by modelling data). No dose adjustment is therefore required.  
In patients with CLCr 30-49 ml/min, there was a marked reduction in the renal elimination of tenofovir 
and  higher systemic  exposure. Pharmacokinetic simulations predicted that  dosing  with tenofovir DF 
300 mg every 48 hours would limit accumulation and achieve Cmin values similar to those observed in 
patients  with  normal  renal  function.  Similarly,  there  was  an  increase  in  emtricitabine  AUC  and 
corresponding  decrease  in  CL/F  in  such  patients.  Pharmacokinetic  simulations  predicted  that  dosing 
emtricitabine once every 48 h would achieve exposures that were within 20% of those in subjects with 
normal renal  function. Since the  interval in  moderate  renal impairment is the same  for tenofovir DF 
and  emtricitabine,  i.e.  48  hours,  the  same  recommendation  for  dosing  interval  is  considered 
appropriate for the fixed dose combination. 
In contrast, dose interval recommendations for tenofovir DF and emtricitabine in patients with severe 
renal  impairment  are  different,  therefore  Truvada  is  not  recommended  in  patients  with  CLCr  below 
30 ml/min nor in haemodialysis patients. 
Because safety and efficacy of these dose interval recommendations have not been clinically evaluated 
in  HIV-1  infected  patients,  a  new  clinical  study  (GS-104-0235)  has  been  initiated  to  evaluate  the 
safety,  antiviral  activity  and  pharmacokinetics  of  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  after  administration  as 
Truvada to HIV-1 infected patients with mild, moderate and severe renal impairment. The results of 
this study will be provided as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
16/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic  impairment:  The  pharmacokinetics  of  the  fixed-dose  combination  have  not  been  studied  in 
patients  with  hepatic  impairment.  No  dose  adjustment  is  required  for  tenofovir  DF  in  patients  with 
hepatic  impairment.  Based  on  minimal  hepatic  metabolism  and  the  renal  route  of  elimination  for 
emtricitabine,  it  is  unlikely  that  a  dose  adjustment  would  be  required  for  Truvada  in  patients  with 
hepatic impairment. 
Children:  the  fixed  combination  of  emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF  is  not  recommended  in  children  and 
adolescents below 18 years.  The safety and efficacy of Truvada have not been established in patients 
under the age of 18 years.   
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Primary pharmacology 
No data pertaining to the pharmacodynamics of the fixed-dose combination of emtricitabine/tenofovir 
DF has been provided. 
The  data  on  the  individual  substances  showed  a  correlation  between  the  dose  and  the  baseline 
susceptibility  and  anti-viral  efficacy.  Further  data  on  resistance  are  presented  under  each  clinical 
study.  
Clinical efficacy  
Main studies 
The  demonstration  of the  antiviral activity  of the  fixed-dose  combination  emtricitabine/tenofovir DF 
as  once  daily  regimen  is  based  on  the  results  of  two  studies  (GS-01-934  andM02-418)  in  which 
emtricitabine was co-administered with tenofovir as part of an antiretroviral regimen in antiretroviral 
naïve patients.  
Study GS-01-934 
This is an ongoing open label study aiming to compare tenofovir DF + emtricitabine to a fixed dose 
combination of lamivudine/zidovudine (LAM/ZDV) when each was administered in combination with 
efavirenz over 48 weeks.  
•  Study Participants 
Antiretroviral naïve patients  with HIV-1 RNA levels > 10,000 copies/ml were eligible. Patients were 
stratified on the basis of screening CD4 cell count (< or 
≥
 200 cells/mm3).  
•  Treatments 
Patients were randomised (1:1) to receive either: 
- 
- 
tenofovir DF, emtricitabine and efavirenz together without regard to meals (preferably at bedtime)  
or  the  fixed  dose  tablet  of  LAM/ZDV  in  the  morning  with  or  without  food  and  one  fixed  dose 
tablet of LAM/ZDV with efavirenz without regards to meals (preferably at bedtime).  
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable is the proportion of patients in each group who achieved and maintained 
HIV RNA  < 400 copies/ml  through  week 48  defined  by  the  FDA’s Time  to  Loss  of  Virological 
Response (TLOVR) algorithm.   
Missing  values  and  treatment  discontinuations  are  considered  as  failures.  The  secondary  efficacy 
variable  is  the  proportion  of  patients  in  each  group  who  achieved  and  maintained  HIV RNA 
< 50 copies/ml  through  week 48  defined  by  the  FDA’s Time  to  Loss  of  Virological  Response 
(TLOVR) algorithm.   
17/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Sample size and Statistical methods 
Non-inferiority for emtricitabine + tenofovir DF compared with LAM/ZDV arm will be concluded if 
the lower confidence bound 95% confidence interval (CI) is greater than – 13% (“delta” of 0.13). The 
sample size of 500 (250 in each arm) has been determined with the hypothesis of 70% response rate 
for each regimen at week 48, with 85 % of power to establish non-inferiority between the two arms. 
Results 
•  Patients disposition 
In the initial application, results from the interim analysis (182 patients included) had been provided. 
These  data  have been subsequently substantiated  with the  results  from the planned 24-week interim 
analysis. 
At the  cut-off  for the planned 24-week interim analysis, all patients treated (n = 511) had completed 
the week 24 study visit (median: 32 weeks; maximum: 50 weeks).  
Demographics were similar between treatment groups as shown in table 7. 
Table 7: Patient demographics (mITT) 
Characteristic 
FTC + Tenofovir DF + EFV 
(N = 244) 
LAM/ZDV + EFV 
(N = 243) 
  Male 
  Female 
  Caucasian 
  Black 
  Hispanic 
  Asian 
  Other 
  Mean Age ± SD 
Plasma HIV-1 RNA (log10 copies/ml) 
  Mean ± SD 
  Median 
  Min, Max 
CD4 Cell Count (cells/mm3) 
  Mean ± SD 
  Median 
  Min, Max 
HIV Status, n (%) 
  Asymptomatic 
210 
34 
138 
61 
36 
3 
6 
86% 
14% 
57% 
25% 
15% 
1% 
2% 
210 
33 
148 
50 
38 
3 
3 
37.4 ± 9.72 
5.03 ± 0.54 
5.02 
3.56, 6.48 
245 ± 164 
233 
3, 803 
35 
14% 
26 
86% 
14% 
61% 
21% 
16% 
1% 
1% 
37.6 ± 9.07 
5.00 ± 0.51 
4.99 
3.84, 6.54 
241 ± 154 
237 
2, 1191 
11% 
49% 
40% 
  Symptomatic HIV Infection 
  AIDS 
113 
96 
FTC = emtricitabine; EFV = efavirenz; LAM/ZDV = lamivudine/zidovudine as fixed dose combination tablet 
46% 
39% 
119 
98 
Overall 85/511 patients discontinued treatment by week 24. The rate of discontinuation was 21% for 
LAM/ZDV (54/254) and 12% for emtricitabine + tenofovir DF (31/257) and adverse events were the 
commonest reason (9% and 3% respectively) for discontinuation. 
There  were  24/511 patients  (4.7%)  with  detectable  primary  resistance  mutations  to  NNRTIs  at 
baseline (see below), of which 5 and 2 per group were discontinued because of sub-optimal virological 
responses.  Because  of  the  potential  for  early  virological  failure  and  the  development  of  additional 
resistance  mutations  in  these  24 patients,  the  applicant  was  advised  to  notify  the  investigators 
responsible and they were excluded from the primary efficacy analysis. Therefore, a mITT population 
was derived and efficacy analysis sets for the 24-week interim analysis were as follows: 
- Primary: Modified Intent-to-Treat (mITT): All patients (a) randomised into the study (b) received at 
least one dose of study medication (c) had no major protocol eligibility violations and (d) no baseline 
NNRTI resistance.  
- Secondary: Intent-to-Treat (ITT): As for mITT except for (d). 
18/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Table 8: Patient disposition 
No. of Patients Randomised and Treated 
No. of Patients with Major Protocol Violationsa 
No. of Intent-To-Treat Patients 
No. of Patients with Baseline Primary NNRTI Resistance 
Mutations 
No. of Modified Intent-To-Treat Patients 
FTC + Tenofovir 
DF + EFV 
(N) 
LAM/ZDV + EFV 
(N) 
257 
2b 
255 
13b 
244 
254 
0
254 
11 
243 
Prior antiretroviral therapy 
a 
b  Both patients with major protocol violations also had baseline NNRTI resistance 
FTC = emtricitabine; EFV = efavirenz; LAM/ZDV = lamivudine/zidovudine as fixed dose combination tablet 
Efficacy results 
The results at 24 weeks are presented in table 9. 
Table 9: Responders (mITT) at Week 24 by FDA TLOVR Algorithm  
Response Rate 
HIV RNA < 400 copies/ml, n/N % 
All Patients 
HIV RNA > 100,000 copies/ml 
HIV RNA ≤ 100,000 copies/ml 
CD4 < 200 cells/mm3 
CD4 ≥ 200 cells/mm3 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/ml, n/N % 
All Patients 
HIV RNA > 100,000 copies/ml 
HIV RNA ≤ 100,000 copies/ml 
CD4 < 200 cells/mm3 
CD4 ≥ 200 cells/mm3 
FTC + Tenofovir 
DF + EFV 
LAM/ZDV + EFV 
Difference 
FTC/Tenofovir DF  
− LAM/ZDV (95% CI)a 
215/244 
112/128 
103/116 
86/101 
129/143 
180/244 
86/128 
94/116 
65/101 
115/143 
88% 
88% 
89% 
85% 
90% 
74% 
67% 
81% 
64% 
80% 
195/243 
92/119 
103/124 
76/104 
119/139 
161/243 
66/119 
95/124 
58/104 
103/139 
80% 
77% 
83% 
73% 
86% 
66% 
56% 
77% 
56% 
74% 
7% (+1%, 13%) 
7% (−1%, 16%) 
6% (−3%, 15%) 
12% (+1%, 23%) 
5%, (−3%, 12%) 
7% (−1%, 15%) 
12% (+1%, 24%) 
5% (−6%, 15%) 
9% (−5%, 22%) 
6% (−3%, 16%) 
a 
The confidence interval was stratified on baseline CD4 stratum and computed under normal 
approximation to the binomial distribution. 
Although there was a significant imbalance in the rate of premature discontinuation between the two 
treatment  arms,  mainly  due  to  withdrawals  for  adverse  events,  the  efficacy  results  in  the  various 
defined  populations  were  consistent  and  reassuring  with  regard  to  likely  comparability  between  the 
two treatment arms. 
There  was a concern over the  choice of the 400 copies/ml cut-off, rather than 50 copies/ml which is 
the  goal  to  achieve  and  maintain  in  a  previously  antiretroviral-naïve  population.  However,  the 
applicant  pointed  out  that  defining  sub-optimal  responses  as  not  achieving  HIV  RNA  levels  below 
400 copies/ml at week 32 was consistent with advice on intervention from the British HIV Association 
and the US Department of Health and Human Services treatment guidelines.  
Regarding the choice of the delta, which was also questioned, the applicant based it on consideration 
that  the  study  compares  two  study  compounds  (tenofovir  DF  +emtricitabine)  versus  two  active 
controls (LAM/ZDV) on a background of a single medicinal product (EFV). Conventionally, the delta 
would be justified by the contribution of the active control drugs over EFV alone. However, there are 
no guidelines or data on EFV monotherapy over 48 weeks. The current standard for equivalence trials 
based on FDA guidance is to use a delta of 10% − 12% for comparing triple antiretroviral regimens 
where a single agent is compared with an active control. In GS-01-934, a delta that is slightly larger 
than this was specified because the contribution of two substances over EFV was assumed to be larger 
than that of a single substance. The comparisons with LAM/ZDV at 24 weeks show a lower 95% CI 
that does not exceed –6 %. Therefore, it was considered that the applicant’s pre-determined choice of 
delta at week 48 was not an issue for week 24 results.  
19/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within the subgroups defined by viral loads and CD4 cell counts as above, proportions reaching and 
maintaining  viral loads at the two  cut-offs  were  consistently  numerically  higher  for the FTC + TDF 
group. 
Mean  changes  from  baseline  to  week 24  in  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  levels  were  −3.29  and  −3.21 log10 
copies/ml per group with mean changes in CD4 cell counts of 129 and 111 cells/mm3. 
Provision  of  the  final  report  at  48  weeks  will  be  provided  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be 
fulfilled post-authorisation. 
•  Resistance 
Samples  for  resistance  testing  were  obtained  at  baseline,  weeks 8,  16,  24  and  early  study  treatment 
discontinuation visits. There  were 24/511 with  genotypic resistance to NNRTIs at baseline  excluded 
from the mITT population. Of these, 7 met resistance analysis criteria by week 24 (3 and 4 per group) 
and  6/7  had  the  K103N  mutation  at  baseline  while  one  had  the  K101E  and  G190A  mutations. 
Phenotypic resistance to efavirenz was detected in all seven patients at baseline (range: 17-fold to 188-
fold  reduced  susceptibility).  The  M184V  mutation  developed  in  6/7 patients  and  additional  NNRTI 
mutations (L100I, V108I, Y188L and P225H) developed in 4/7.  
In the mITT population, 32 patients met the resistance analysis criteria by week 24 (FTC+ TDF = 17; 
LAM/ZDV = 15). Post-baseline  genotypes  were  obtained  for  18 patients,  of  which  5/10  and  3/8  per 
group failed virologically but had virus that remained wild type or identical to the baseline sequence. 
M184V/I developed in 3 of 18 patients in the resistance analysis but no patient had this at baseline and 
M184V/I did not develop without efavirenz resistance. No patient in either arm developed the K65R 
mutation or had this at baseline or developed classical TAMs.  
Resistance  to  the  NNRTI  class  was  the  most  common  form  of  genotypic  resistance  that  emerged 
(10/487 = 2% of the mITT population). The frequency of development of resistance to efavirenz was 
similar  between  the  two  treatment  arms  at  2%  and  the  K103N  mutation  was  the  most  common 
efavirenz resistance mutation that developed.  
Study M02-418 (GS-02-982) 
is  an  open-label  study  primarily  designed 
This 
twice-daily 
lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/RTV) when administered in combination with tenofovir and emtricitabine in 
the  treatment  of  antiretroviral-naïve  patients.  Emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  DF  were  to  be  taken  once 
daily with food in the morning along with the lopinavir/ritonavir dose. 
to  compare  once-daily  and 
•  Study participants 
Adults  HIV-infected  patients  with  HIV  RNA  >1000  copies/ml  and  no prior  antiretroviral  treatment 
were eligible. There was no CD4 cell count restriction.  
•  Treatment 
Patients  were  randomised  (3:2)  to  receive  either  800  mg  lopinavir/200  mg  ritonavir  once  daily  or 
400 mg  lopinavir/100  mg  ritonavir  twice daily,  each  in  combination  with  300  mg  tenofovir  DF  and 
200 mg emtricitabine once daily.  
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary  efficacy  variable  was the proportion  of  patients  with HIV RNA below 50  copies/ml  at 
week 48. This was measured using an intent-to-treat analysis in which missing values were considered 
failure (ITT M=F) unless the immediately preceding and following values were below 50 copies/ml.  
•  Sample size and statistical methods 
The  once  daily  LPV/RTV  group  was  to  be  considered  non-inferior  to  the  twice  daily  group  if  the 
lower 95% CI around the difference at the < 50 copies/ml level (based on the normal approximation to 
the binomial distribution) was above −20%.  
20/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
•  Patients disposition 
Of  196 patients  randomised,  three  per  group  were  not  treated.  Of  the  190  remaining,  45  (24%) 
discontinued  from  the  study  before  week  48,  mostly  due  to  adverse  events  or  HIV-related  events. 
Approximately 45% of patients had baseline CD4 cell counts < 200 cells/mm3 and 38% had baseline 
plasma HIV-1 RNA > 100,000 copies/ml. The mean time since HIV diagnosis was 2.3 years.  
•  Efficacy results 
The results at 48 weeks are presented in table 10. 
Table 10: Proportion with Plasma HIV-1 RNA Levels < 50 Copies/ml at Week 48 – GS-02-982 
LPV/RTV QD 
+ Tenofovir DF + FTC 
LPV/RTV BID 
+ Tenofovir DF + FTC 
ITT (NC = F)a 
ITT (M = F)b 
Observed datac 
70% 
70% 
90% 
Intent-to-treat (ITT) non-completer equals failure (NC = F) analysis 
ITT missing equals failure (M = F) analysis:  Any patient with a missing value for any reason at a given visit was considered 
> 50 copies/ml. 
Observed data:  Missing values were excluded from the analysis. 
81/115 
80/115 
80/89 
48/75 
47/75 
47/54 
64% 
63% 
87% 
a 
b 
c 
Difference 
QD − BID 
(95% CI) 
6% (−7%, 20%) 
7% (−7%, 21%) 
3% (−8%, 14%) 
The ITT  (N=F) 48-week response  rates  were  consistent  with the 67% previously  reported in  Abbott 
study M98-863 for a twice-daily regimen of LPV/RTV and two NRTIs. 
Using  the  TLOVR  algorithm,  71%  and  65%  in  the  once  and  twice  daily  groups  achieved  and 
maintained  confirmed  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  levels  < 50 copies/ml  through  48 weeks  (95%  CI:  −8%, 
20%). In subgroups defined by viral load and CD4 cell count at baseline proportions of patients with 
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 48 on once daily LPV/RTV were numerically higher in patients 
with ≥ 100,000 copies/ml and < 200 cells/mm3. 
The mean decrease in viral load from baseline to week 48 was −3.14 log10 copies/ml in the once daily 
and  −3.00 log10  copies/ml  in  the  twice  daily  group.  Mean  changes  in  CD4  cell  counts  were 
185 cells/mm3 and 196 cells/mm3, respectively.  
•  Resistance 
Genotypic  resistance  testing  was  conducted  for  all  available  samples  in  which  HIV-1  RNA  was 
> 500 copies/ml  from  weeks 12  to 48.    Of  the  15 patients  with  available  genotypic  resistance  data, 
3 patients demonstrated an M184V/I mutation in reverse transcriptase, indicating the development of 
emtricitabine resistance. The K65R mutation did not occur and no other RT mutations suggestive of 
NRTI resistance emerged. 
With  respect  to  a  potential  impact  of  gender  in  term  of  efficacy,  very  limited  data  from  these  two 
studies (only 14 % of patients were female) did not suggest any difference. 
Regarding the possible use of emtricitabine/tenofovir DF fixed dose combination with other NRTIs 
There  have been  reports  of a  high  rate  of  virological failure  and of  emergence  of resistance  at  early 
stage when tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was combined with lamivudine and abacavir as well as with 
lamivudine  and  didanosine  as  a  once  daily  regimen.  The  issue  of  possible  sub-optimal  efficacy  of 
tenofovir plus lamivudine with either abacavir or didanosine remains unresolved at present, but this is 
still  under  investigation.  There  is  as  yet  no  indication  of  a  pharmacokinetic  or  pharmacodynamic 
interaction that might explain the findings. Currently, there are no data on the efficacy of emtricitabine 
and  tenofovir  DF  when  administered  with  a  third  NRTI.  Since  there  is  a  close  structural  similarity 
the  pharmacokinetics  and 
between 
emtricitabine  and 
lamivudine 
similarities 
and 
in 
21/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacodynamics  of these two  agents, the same problems  may be seen if Truvada is  administered 
with  a  third  nucleoside  analogue.  A  warning  has  been  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. 
Antiretroviral experienced patients 
There  are  currently  no  data  on  the  use  of  emtricitabine  plus  tenofovir  DF  for  the  treatment  of 
antiretroviral-experienced  subjects.  The  applicant  undertook  to  conduct  a  new  study  (GS-US-164-
0107) in these patients using emtricitabine/tenofovir DF fixed dose combination, the results of which 
will be submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
HIV/hepatitis co-infection 
Limited  data  from  study  GS-01-934  suggested  as  expected  that  Truvada  might  exert  a  significant 
effect on HBV viral loads. Only 13/511 (3%) patients were HBsAg positive at baseline. Of these, nine 
were  randomised  to  tenofovir  DF  +  emtricitabine  and  four  to  LAM/ZDV.  One  patient  discontinued 
tenofovir DF + emtricitabine DF prior to week 24 because of non-compliance. 
There  were  4/13 patients  with  baseline  plasma  HBV  DNA  ≥ 1 × 106  copies/ml  (three  in  the 
emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF  group).  All  patients  with  plasma  HBV  DNA  < 1 × 106 copies/ml  were 
HBeAg negative at baseline. In the tenofovir DF + emtricitabine group, the reduction in HBV DNA 
ranged from 0.9 to 7.5 log10 copies/ml at week 24 and one seroconverted to HBeAg negative. Plasma 
HBV DNA for one LAM/ZDV group patient had decreased by 4.3 log10 copies/ml at week 24.  
The  mean  baseline  serum  ALT  for  these  patients  was  67 mg/dl  in  the  tenofovir  DF  +  emtricitabine 
group  and  38 mg/dl  in  the  LAM/ZDV  group.  The  mean  changes  from  baseline  to  week 24  were 
−46 mg/dl and 0 mg/dl, respectively. 
In addition, 26/511 patients were HCV antibody positive at baseline (10 tenofovir DF + emtricitabine). 
Two  discontinued  LAM/ZDV  prior  to  week 24  (due  to  anaemia  or  lost  to  follow-up).  The  mean 
baseline  serum  ALT  was  40 mg/dl  in  the  FTC/TFV  and  58 mg/dl  in  the  LAM/ZDV  group.    Mean 
changes from baseline to week 24 were +25 mg/dl and +17 mg/dl, respectively.  
Clinical safety 
The safety of both emtricitabine and tenofovir DF has been established in adults in multiple controlled 
clinical  trials  and  corroborated  by  several  years  of  post-marketing  experience  (for  tenofovir, 
approximately 200,000 patient-years of exposure to 31 December 2003 as calculated from sales data).  
The evaluation of the safety profile of emtricitabine/tenofovir DF as fixed dose combination focused 
therefore on data relevant to the co-administration of emtricitabine and tenofovir.  
•  Patient exposure 
Forty-four  healthy  volunteers  received  single  doses  of  emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF  as  fixed  dose 
combination  tablets  in  the  bioequivalence  study  GS-US-104-172  and  19  subjects  received  single 
concomitant  doses  of  the  current  formulations  of  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  DF  in  the  interaction 
study FTC-114.  
Interim 24-week safety  data  for the study GS-01-934  safety  dataset (n = 511) are  presented  (last 24 
week  visit  2  July  2004).  The  median  time  on  study  regimen  was  approximately  32  weeks  for  both 
treatment  groups.  For  deaths,  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  and  discontinuations  due  to  adverse 
events, all data received and entered into the database as of 16 July 2004 are provided.  
As of the cut-off for the 48 weeks analysis of studyM02-418, data on 190 patients are available. The 
overall median time on study regimen was 378 days (range 4-378 days).  
22/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adverse events 
Study FTC-114 
The total and treatment-related adverse events reporting rates were slightly higher (total 6/18 subjects; 
33%)  with  the  combination  compared  with  each  substance  alone  (4/18  and  5/18)  due  to  reports  of 
gastrointestinal symptoms and headache.  
Study GS-104-172 
There  were too few adverse events reported during this bioequivalence study for any comment to be 
made on rates or types of events. 
Study GS-01-934 24-Week Safety Data  
At the cut-off for the 24-week interim analysis, the difference in discontinuation rates prior to week 24 
(12% and 21%)  was  mainly  attributed to the  higher  rate  of  withdrawal  due to adverse  events in the 
LAM/ZDV  group  (3% (8/257)  in  tenofovir  DF  +  emtricitabine  versus  9% (22/254)  in  LAM/ZDV). 
The most frequent AE implicated was anaemia in 13 patients of the LAM/ZDV group.   
The most frequent adverse events (reported in ≥ 5% of each treatment group) were dizziness, nausea 
and  diarrhoea  for  tenofovir  DF  +  emtricitabine  compared  to  nausea,  dizziness  and  insomnia  for 
LAM/ZDV.  
Adverse events considered possibly or probably related to treatment (see table 11) were reported more 
frequently for the LAM/ZDV group (45%) than for tenofovir DF + emtricitabine (30%). Incidences of 
the possibly/probably related events of nausea (11% vs 25%), vomiting (2% vs 7%) and anaemia (0% 
vs 6%) were at least 5% higher in the LAM/ZDV group. Two patients (< 1%) in the tenofovir DF + 
emtricitabine group compared with 16 patients (6%) in the LAM/ZDV group had grade 3 / 4 adverse 
events that were considered to be possibly or probably related to study treatment. The difference was 
mainly due to occurrences of anaemia and fatigue. 
Table 11:  Adverse Events Possibly or Probably Related to Study Treatment - GS-01-934  
Adverse Event  
(Preferred Term) 
Number of Patients Experiencing any Related 
Adverse Event 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Fatigue 
Headache 
Rash 
Vomiting 
Abdominal Distension 
Skin Hyperpigmentation 
Dizziness 
Flatulence 
Loose Stools 
Abdominal Pain 
Abdominal Pain Upper 
Decreased Appetite 
Dysgeusia 
Dyspepsia 
Anaemia 
Tenofovir DF + FTC + EFV 
(N = 257) 
N 
% 
76 
28 
14 
8 
7 
5 
5 
4 
5 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
1 
2 
0 
30% 
11% 
5% 
3% 
3% 
2% 
2% 
2% 
2% 
1% 
1% 
1% 
<1% 
<1% 
<1% 
<1% 
<1% 
0% 
LAM/ZDV + EFV 
(N = 254) 
n 
115 
% 
63 
14 
13 
13 
0 
19 
3 
1 
9 
4 
5 
4 
4 
5 
5 
4 
14 
45% 
25% 
6% 
5% 
5% 
0% 
7% 
1% 
< 1% 
4% 
2% 
2% 
2% 
2% 
2% 
2% 
2% 
6% 
There  was  one  death  reported  up  to  the  cut-off  for  the  24-week  interim  analysis  –  a  patient  in  the 
LAM/ZDV  group  died  due  to  progressive  multifocal  leukoencephalopathy  considered  to  be  a 
consequence of AIDS. Twelve tenofovir DF + emtricitabine patients (5%) and 18 LAM/ZDV patients 
(7%)  experienced  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs).  While  seven  LAM/ZDV  patients  had  anaemia 
reported as a SAE,  no  other  event  was  reported by  more than  one patient and these seven  were the 
only SAEs considered related to study drugs. 
23/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no evidence of clinically significant renal events in the tenofovir DF + emtricitabine group 
and  similar  numbers  (2%)  per  treatment  group  had  events  classified  within  the  Renal  and  Urinary 
Disorder Order Class. The incidence of serum creatinine and phosphorus abnormalities was low  and 
comparable between the two treatment groups. 
Up to the cut-off, three tenofovir DF + emtricitabine and one LAM/ZDV patient had fractures but all 
were trauma-related and none were considered by the investigator to be related to study drugs. 
There  was one report of metabolic acidosis in the LAM/ZDV group and no reports of pancreatitis in 
either  group.  There  were  also  single  reports  of  abdominal  obesity,  hypercholesterolaemia  and 
hypertriglyceridaemia  in  the  LAM/ZDV  group.  Peripheral  neuritis/neuropathy  was  reported  for  four 
tenofovir  DF  +  emtricitabine  patients  but  the  patient’s  medical  history  and  concurrent  medications 
provided  an  alternative  explanation  for  the  events  and  none  was  serious  or  led  to  treatment 
discontinuation. 
Skin  hyperpigmentation  was  reported  for  five  tenofovir  DF  +  emtricitabine  patients  and  three 
LAM/ZDV  patients,  of  which  all  and  one  per  group  was  considered  to  be  related  to  the  NRTI 
components of the regimen. However, all were of grade 1 severity and no intervention was required. 
The overall incidence and severity of abnormal renal and hepatic parameters were similar between the 
two  treatment  groups.  Two  patients  per  group  had  a  grade  1  serum  creatinine  elevation  and  one 
LAM/ZDV patient had a  grade 2  creatinine  elevation. A patient  in the tenofovir DF +  emtricitabine 
group  had a  grade 4 serum  creatinine  abnormality reported and treatment  was interrupted but repeat 
testing  6  days  later  demonstrated  a  serum  creatinine  0.8  mg/dl.  Therefore,  it  was  thought  that  there 
might have been a laboratory error and treatment was resumed without problems. The mean change in 
calculated creatinine clearance at week 24 was – 0.9 ml/min for the tenofovir DF/emtricitabine group 
and 8.03 ml/min for the LAM/ZDV group. 
Study M02-418 
At  the  cut-off  48-week  analysis,  45  patients  (24%)  had  prematurely  discontinued  from  the  study, 
mostly  (20  patients)  for  AEs/HIV-related  events.  These  were  mostly  gastrointestinal,  particularly 
diarrhoea and nausea (six patients for each). 
The  most  common  AEs  considered  possibly  or  probably  related  to  treatment  were  diarrhoea  and 
nausea.  Two deaths  occurred  during  the  first  48 weeks  of  the  study  (lymphoma-like  syndrome  and 
AIDS) but were not considered to be treatment-related. SAEs were reported for 18 patients, of which 
11  were  in  the  twice-daily  LPV/r  group.  In  three  patients,  these  SAEs  (one  case  of  worsening 
diarrhoea, one  hepatitis and  one  nephritis) were assessed by the investigator as possibly  or probably 
related to lopinavir/ritonavir, tenofovir DF and/or emtricitabine.   
The  incidence  of  renal  laboratory  abnormalities  in  M02-418  was  similar  to  the  48-week  findings  of 
study GS 99-903, in which tenofovir DF was administered in combination with efavirenz which  had 
no effect on serum tenofovir levels, and lamivudine. However, nephritis was reported for one patient 
and abnormal renal function was reported for another during the first 48 weeks of the study.  
No bone  fractures  were  reported  during the 48-week  phase  of the study. Four patients reported skin 
discoloration, of which one was a case of hypopigmentation and was considered by the investigator to 
be unrelated to therapy and one was considered possibly related. 
Overall the data from the studies did not show new patterns of adverse reactions compared to 
experience with each agent. Very limited do not indicate any difference in the safety profile depending 
of the gender. 
24/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
•  Specific adverse reactions 
Renal excretion by a combination of glomerular filtration and tubular secretion is the primary route of 
elimination of tenofovir and emtricitabine. In preclinical studies with tenofovir, at exposure similar or 
higher  than  that  achieved  following  the  recommended  daily  dose  in  humans,  some  evidence  of 
nephrotoxicity  was  observed  in  all  species  (dog,  rat  and  monkey).  The  clinical  safety  data  did  not 
indicate  a  causal  association  between  tenofovir  DF  and  renal  events.  Post-marketing  spontaneous 
adverse  reaction  data  indicated  that  tenofovir  DF  may  in  rare  circumstances  lead  to  renal  events 
including renal failure, Fanconi Syndrome and  other  proximal tubulopathies. As  for tenofovir DF as 
individual, monitoring of renal function is recommended before taking tenofovir DF/emtricitabine as 
the fixed dose combination tablet and every 4 weeks during therapy.  
In  the  toxicology  studies  of  tenofovir,  bone  abnormalities  were  reported.  The  clinical  safety  data 
demonstrated  bone  toxicity,  including  a  reduction  in  bone  mineral  density  with  prolonged  use  of 
tenofovir  DF.  Post-marketing  safety  data  support  the  conclusions  from  clinical  trials.  The  effects  of 
long term administration on bone metabolism and their clinical relevance are currently unknown. As 
for  tenofovir  DF  as  individual,  a  warning  has  therefore  been  added  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics of the fixed dose combination tablet.  
Clinical safety data and post-marketing surveillance demonstrate a low risk of mitochondrial toxicity 
and  metabolic  effects  with  tenofovir  DF  and  emtricitabine.  However,  class  labelling  warnings 
regarding  mitochondrial  toxicity,  lactic  acidosis,  metabolic  abnormalities  and  lipodystrophy  are 
included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  tablet  of  emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF  was  considered 
acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  defined  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. Only a  few  changes  were  made to  emtricitabine and tenofovir DF active substances 
already  authorised  via  the  centralised  procedure.  The  pharmaceutical  form  selected  was  adequate 
taken  into  account  the  properties  and  the  stability  of  the  active  substances  and it  is  a  well-accepted 
pharmaceutical  form  for  oral  administration.  The  excipients  were  commonly  used  for  this  kind  of 
formulation and the packaging material is well documented. The manufacturing process enhanced to 
obtain  reproducible  finished  product  batches.  Stability  tests  under  ICH  conditions  indicated  that  the 
product was stable for the proposed shelf life. At the time of the CHMP there were some outstanding 
issues  which  had  no  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the 
necessary information as follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Emtricitabine  is  a  nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  and  tenofovir  disoproxil  fumarate  is  the 
salt  of  the  prodrug  of  tenofovir,  a  nucleotide  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor.  Both  compounds  have 
been shown potent antiretroviral activity against HIV-1 in vitro and are active in vivo in several animal 
retrovirus models.   
The  combination  of  tenofovir  and  emtricitabine  consistently  showed  synergistic  anti-HIV-1  activity 
in vitro. The antiviral activity of the combination of tenofovir and emtricitabine  was demonstrated in 
vivo  in  SIV-infected  macaques.  In-vitro  resistance  selection  experiments  with  the  combination 
demonstrated the initial development of the M184I mutation and high-level resistance to emtricitabine, 
but preserved susceptibility to tenofovir.   
Neither  tenofovir  DF  nor  emtricitabine  had  significant  unwanted  pharmacological  activity  as 
determined in a variety of in-vitro and in-vivo safety pharmacology studies.  
25/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  have  not  been  evaluated  in  preclinical  studies. 
This  was  considered  acceptable  in  view  of  the  clinical  data  which  showed  that  absorption 
characteristics of each active substance were not affected by co-administration or combination into a 
single dosing form.  
Tenofovir was not a substrate or inhibitor of any CYP450 enzymes. Only a small fraction of the dose 
eliminated  in  urine  was  metabolised.  Emtricitabine  was  subject  to  phase  I  metabolism  and  to  some 
direct  conjugation,  both  to  a  limited  extent.  Therefore,  it  is  unlikely  when  the  drugs  are  co-
administered  that  there  would  be  any  metabolism-mediated  interaction.  Tenofovir  and  emtricitabine 
are  primarily  excreted  by  the  kidney  and  clearance  is  by  glomerular  filtration  with  active  tubular 
secretion.  It is considered unlikely that there would be an interaction affecting elimination. 
The  two  substances  exhibited  different  patterns  of  target  organ  toxicity.  Specifically,  the  only 
significant  effect of  emtricitabine identified at dose levels  constituting large  clinical  multiples  was  a 
minor  anaemia.  In  contrast,  extensive  non-clinical  investigations  of  the  toxicity  of  tenofovir  DF 
showed that the target organs were gastrointestinal, bone and kidney.  
Administration of the emtricitabine/tenofovir DF tablet did not exacerbate the known toxicities of the 
individual  agents,  as  demonstrated  in  the  14-Day  rat  toxicology  study.  The  applicant  undertook  to 
investigate  the  toxicity  of  the  combination  of  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  DF  in  the  dog,  a  species 
considered  “more  sensitive”  to  the  renal  effects  of  tenofovir  DF,  in  a  study  of  longer  duration.  The 
results will be presented as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation.   
Given that there are no signs of immunotoxicity with the individual agents and that there is no known 
pharmacokinetic  interaction  or  overlapping  toxicities,  no  immunotoxicological  effects  of  the 
combination  would be  expected,  however, the applicant  will further look at this aspect in the  future 
dog study. 
Emtricitabine was not mutagenic, meanwhile tenofovir DF was positive in 2 out of 3 in vitro studies 
but  was  negative  in  an  in  vivo  micronucleus  test.  Because  the  combination  of  zidovudine  and 
didanosine have been reported to potentiate genetic damage in human cells in vitro, the applicant will 
conduct further studies to assess whether co-administration of emtricitabine with tenofovir DF has the 
potential to synergistically  enhance the  genotoxic potential of tenofovir, the results of  which  will be 
submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation.   
Efficacy 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics profile of the fixed dose combination has not been assessed, however the 
pharmacokinetics profile of tenofovir DF and emtricitabine have already been assessed as individual 
compounds. In addition, there was no pharmacokinetic interaction between tenofovir DF and 
emtricitabine identified in in-vitro and in vivo studies.   
As  a  pre-requisite  to  support  this  fixed  dose  combination,  study  GS-104-172  established 
bioequivalence between the fixed dose combination tablet of emtricitabine/tenofovir DF and the same 
dose  of  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  DF  administered  separately  in  a  fasted  state.  This  study  also 
assessed  the  effect  of  food  and  based  on  the  available  data,  in  order  to  optimise  the  absorption  of 
tenofovir, the fixed dose combination tablet of emtricitabine/tenofovir DF should be taken with food 
as recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
With  respect  to  patients  with  renal  insufficiency,  based  on  the  recommendations  for  the  individual 
compounds, dosing interval adjustment of fixed dose combination tablet of emtricitabine/tenofovir DF 
is  required  in  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance  between  30  and 
49 ml/min).  It  is  not  recommended  however  for  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine 
clearance  < 30 ml/min)  and  in  patients  who  require  haemodialysis.  A  new  clinical  study  has  been 
26/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
initiated to evaluate the safety, antiviral activity and pharmacokinetics of emtricitabine and tenofovir 
after administration as fixed dose combination tablet to HIV-1 infected patients with mild, moderate 
and severe renal impairment, the results of which will be submitted as part of the follow-up measures 
to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation.  The  pharmacokinetics  information  on  the  individual  components 
which  are  relevant  for  the  fixed  dose  combination  has  been  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. 
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of emtricitabine and tenofovir DF as individual compounds has already been assessed in 
antiretroviral  naïve  and  experienced  patients.  There  are  no  clinical  data  obtained  with  the 
emtricitabine/tenofovir DF as fixed dose combination. 
To support the fixed combination, the applicant provided the results from two studies in antiretroviral 
naïve patients where tenofovir DF was co-administered with emtricitabine. 
Preliminary  24-week  data  from  an  ongoing,  open  label  clinical  study  (GS-01-934)  in  antiretroviral 
naïve patients treated  with tenofovir DF  plus  emtricitabine and efavirenz  once  daily showed similar 
antiviral  effect  to  the  fixed  dose  combination  of  lamivudine/zidovudine  twice  daily  with  efavirenz 
once daily. The percentage of patients who achieved and maintained a viral load < 400 copies/ml was 
88%  (215/244)  in  the  tenofovir  DF  plus  emtricitabine  group  and  80%  (195/243)  in  the 
zidovudine/lamivudine  group  (p-value = 0.019); 
for  a  viral 
load < 50 copies/ml  were  74%  (180/244)  in  the  tenofovir  DF  plus  emtricitabine  group  and  66% 
(161/243)  in  the  zidovudine/lamivudine  group  (p-value = 0.075).  The applicant  undertook  to  submit 
the final results at 48 weeks as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
the  corresponding  percentages 
In the second open label study, patients were treated once daily with emtricitabine and tenofovir DF in 
combination with lopinavir/ritonavir given once or twice daily.  At 48 weeks, 70% (81/115) and 64% 
(48/75) of patients demonstrated HIV RNA < 50 copies/ml with the once and twice daily regimens of 
lopinavir/ritonavir, respectively.   
There are currently no data on the use of emtricitabine plus tenofovir DF in antiretroviral-experienced 
patients.  The  applicant  undertook  to  submit  the  results  of  a  planed  study  in  this  population  using 
emtricitabine/tenofovir DF as fixed dose combination. 
In  term  of  resistance,  it  has  been  seen  in vitro  and  in  some  HIV-1  infected  patients  due  to  the 
development of the M184V/I mutation with emtricitabine and the K65R mutation with tenofovir.  No 
other pathways of resistance to emtricitabine or tenofovir have been identified.  Emtricitabine-resistant 
viruses  with  the  M184V/I  mutation  were  cross-resistant  to  lamivudine  but  retained  sensitivity  to 
didanosine, stavudine, tenofovir, zalcitabine and zidovudine. The K65R mutation can also be selected 
by  abacavir,  didanosine  or  zalcitabine  and  results  in  reduced  susceptibility  to  these  agents  plus 
tenofovir  and  emtricitabine.  Patients  with  HIV-1  expressing  three  or  more  thymidine  analogue 
associated mutations (TAMs) that included either the M41L or L210W reverse transcriptase mutation 
showed reduced susceptibility to tenofovir DF. 
There  have been  reports  of a  high  rate  of  virological failure  and of  emergence  of resistance  at  early 
stage when tenofovir DF was combined with lamivudine and abacavir as well as with lamivudine and 
didanosine  as  a  once  daily  regimen.  At  present  the  reason  for  this  finding  is  unknown.  Since 
emtricitabine has a close structural similarity with lamivudine the CHMP agreed to add a warning in 
the Summary of Product Characteristics as the same problems may be seen if Truvada is administered 
with a third nucleoside analogue.  
Limited  clinical  experience  in  patients  co-infected  with  HIV  and  HBV  suggests  that  treatment  with 
emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  DF  in  antiretroviral  combination  therapy  to  control  HIV infection  also 
results in a reduction in HBV DNA. 
27/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although  it  has  been  demonstrated  with  the  published  scientific  literature  accumulated  so  far  that  a 
reduction  of  the  pill  burden  and/or  frequency  of  the  pill  burden  could  be  translated  into  improved 
adherence,  no  data  have  been  provided  in  term  of  adherence.  The  applicant  undertook  therefore  to 
substantiate  the  potential  benefit  in  term  of  adherence  of  this  fixed  dose  combination  in 
ongoing/planned studies, as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Clinical Safety 
The safety profile of tenofovir DF and emtricitabine as individual components have already been well 
defined. The adverse reactions reported with Truvada were consistent with the known safety profiles 
of  the  substances  given  separately.    Thus  far,  the  data  from  concomitant  administration  of  the  two 
actives do not seem to point to additional problems.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Given  the  prior  approval  of  the  two  active  substances  and  the  fact  that  there  is  no  evidence  of  a 
pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic interaction that might impact on patients safety or efficacy, the 
combination table of emtricitibine/tenofovir DF might represent a benefit in terms of convenience for 
selected patients.  
Overall considering that: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
there  are  no  major  concern  raised  on  the  quality  and  non-clinical  aspects  of  the  dossier 
submitted to support the approval of this fixed combination, 
as a mandatory pre-requisite to support this fixed dose combination of emtricitabine/ tenofovir 
DF,  the  bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated  between  the  fixed  combination  and  both 
substances administered individually at the same dose.  
preliminary  24  weeks  data  of  study  GS-01-934  and  48  weeks  data  of  study  M02-418  has 
provided  efficacy  data  in  antiretroviral  naïve  patients  for  tenofovir  DF  associated  with 
emtricitabine once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen  
there is no evidence of deterioration of the safety profile of the fixed dose combination over 
the individual compounds. 
simplified schedule regimens are  especially  critical  when  considering that HIV infection has 
become  a  chronic  disease  and  that  non-adherence  negatively  impacts  on  the  response  to 
treatment.  Emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF  encompassing  not  only  the  advantage  of  a  fixed  dose 
combination  but  also  of  a  once  daily  regimen  has  the  potential  to  simplify  the  daily  life  of 
patients. 
the CHMP considered that the benefit/risk ratio of the fixed dose combination emtricitabine/tenofovir 
DF as a one daily regimen to be taken in combination with other antiretroviral agents was favourable. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of Truvada in the treatment of in the treatment of HIV infection 
was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  in  the 
following indication: 
“Truvada is a fixed dose combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.  It is 
indicated in antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults. 
The  demonstration  of  the  benefit  of  the  combination  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  disoproxil 
fumarate  in  antiretroviral  therapy  is  based  solely  on  studies  performed  in  treatment-naïve 
patients.” 
28/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
