EMA/188673/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004702 
Trydonis (beclometasone / formoterol / glycopyrronium 
bromide) 
An overview of Trydonis and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Trydonis and what is it used for? 
Trydonis is a medicine used in adults to relieve the symptoms of moderate to severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD is a long-term disease in which the airways and air sacs 
inside the lungs become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing.  
Trydonis is used for maintenance (continuing) treatment in patients whose disease is not adequately 
controlled despite treatment with a combination of two COPD medicines consisting of a long-acting 
beta-2 agonist plus either an inhaled corticosteroid or a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist. 
Beta-2 agonists and muscarinic receptor antagonists help to widen the airways; corticosteroids reduce 
inflammation in the airways and lungs.. 
This medicine is the same as Trimbow, which is already authorised in the EU. The company that makes 
Trimbow has agreed that its scientific data can be used for Trydonis (‘informed consent’). 
Trydonis contains the active substances beclometasone, formoterol and glycopyrronium bromide. 
How is Trydonis used? 
Trydonis is available as a liquid in a portable inhaler device. The recommended dose is two inhalations 
twice a day.  
Patients should be shown how to use the inhaler correctly by a doctor or another healthcare 
professional, who should also regularly check that the patient’s inhalation technique is correct.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Trydonis, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Trydonis work? 
The three active substances in Trydonis work in different ways to reduce inflammation and keep the 
airways open, allowing the patient to breathe more easily. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beclometasone belongs to anti-inflammatory medicines known as corticosteroids. It works in a similar 
way to naturally occurring corticosteroid hormones, reducing the activity of the immune system. This 
leads to a reduction in the release of substances involved in the inflammation process, such as 
histamine, thereby helping to keep the airways clear and allowing the patient to breathe more easily. 
Formoterol is a long-acting beta-2 agonist. It attaches to receptors (targets) known as beta-2 
receptors in the muscles of the airways. By attaching to these receptors, it causes the muscles to 
relax, which keeps the airways open and helps with the patient’s breathing. 
Glycopyrronium bromide is a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist. It opens the airways by 
blocking muscarinic receptors in muscle cells in the lungs. Because these receptors help control the 
contraction of the airway muscles,  blocking them causes the muscles to relax, helping to keep the 
airways open and allowing the patient to breathe more easily. 
What benefits of Trydonis have been shown in studies? 
Trydonis has been shown to be effective at relieving symptoms of COPD in three main studies involving 
over 5,500 patients whose symptoms were not controlled well enough either by combinations of two 
other COPD medicines or by a muscarinic receptor antagonist alone.  
In the first study lasting a year, after 26 weeks of treatment, Trydonis improved patients’ FEV1 (the 
maximum volume of air a person can breathe out in one second) by 82 ml before a dose and 261 ml 
after a dose. By comparison, the FEV1 increased by 1 and 145 ml before and after dosing in patients 
treated with a medicine containing only 2 of the active substances found in Trydonis (beclometasone 
plus formoterol).  
In the second study lasting a year, patients treated with Trydonis had 20% fewer exacerbations (flare-
ups of symptoms) per year than patients treated with tiotropium (a long-acting muscarinic receptor 
antagonist). In this study, Trydonis was as effective as tiotropium plus a combination of beclometasone 
and formoterol at reducing the number of exacerbations. 
In the third study lasting a year, patients treated with Trydonis had 15% fewer exacerbations a year 
than patients treated with a combination of indacaterol (a long-acting beta-2 agonist) and 
glycopyrronium bromide. 
What are the risks associated with Trydonis? 
Side effects with Trydonis include oral candidiasis (a fungal infection of the mouth caused by a yeast 
called Candida), muscle spasms and dry mouth. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Trydonis, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Trydonis authorised in the EU? 
Trydonis is effective at reducing the frequency of exacerbations and improving lung function of patients 
with COPD. No major safety concerns have been reported with Trydonis, with side effects being 
manageable and similar to other COPD medicines. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided 
that Trydonis’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Trydonis (beclometasone / formoterol / glycopyrronium bromide)  
EMA/188673/2019 
Page 2/3
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Trydonis? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Trydonis have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Trydonis is continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Trydonis are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Trydonis 
Trydonis received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 April 2018. 
Further information on Trydonis can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trydonis.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2019. 
Trydonis (beclometasone / formoterol / glycopyrronium bromide)  
EMA/188673/2019 
Page 3/3
 
 
 
