SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  TWINRIX  Adult.  This 
scientific discussion has been updated until 01 February 2004.  For information on changes after 
this date please refer to module 8B 
1. 
Introduction 
Hepatitis A and hepatitis B virus infections represent the most frequent forms of viral disease of the 
liver. It is widely accepted that prophylaxis against hepatitis A and hepatitis B in the form of vaccines, 
is the most efficacious way of offering long-term protection. 
In regions of low endemicity such as Europe and North America, population-based studies and disease 
surveillance  have  shown  that  infection  by  either  the  hepatitis  A  or  B  viruses  is  more  prevalent  in 
specific  population  groups  (although  not  exclusively  restricted  to)  where  high  risk  is  defined  by 
lifestyle or  occupation; for e.g. persons who travel or  move from  regions of  low  endemicity  to high 
endemicity,  persons  who  receive  blood  or  blood-derived  products.  These  groups  who  have  been 
shown to be at high risk would thus derive considerable benefit from the combination of prophylaxis. 
Thus the rationale for such a combined vaccine was derived primarily from epidemiological studies of 
hepatitis  A  in  several  of  the  European  states.  Furthermore  the  combined  vaccine  is  seen  to  be  more 
advantageous  in  that  it  reduces  the  number  of  injections,  offers  greater  convenience  and  logistical 
advantages with respect to immunisation with the two monovalent vaccines. 
The  formulation  of  TWINRIX  Adult  is  a  combination  of  two  different  previously  authorised  active 
ingredients, which are the same ingredients as in the vaccines: HAVRIX Adult and ENGERIX-B for 
Hepatitis  A  and  Hepatitis  B  prophylaxis  respectively,  in  adults.  Twinrix  Adult  is  formulated  by 
pooling  bulk  preparations  of  the  purified  inactivated  hepatitis  A  virus  (HA)  and  purified  hepatitis  B 
surface  antigen  (HBsAg),  separately  adsorbed  onto  aluminium  salts.  2-Phenoxyethanol  is  used  as 
preservative. A 1.0ml dose of vaccine contains not less than 720 ELISA units of inactivated HA virus 
and 20 µg of recombinant HBsAg protein. 
2. 
Chemical, biological and pharmaceutical, aspects 
The  Twinrix  Adult  combined  vaccine  is  formulated  by  pooling  bulk  preparations  of  the  purified 
inactivated hepatitis A virus and purified recombinant hepatitis B surface antigen.  
Composition of the medicinal product 
The  formulation  is  to  a  large  extent  a  blend  of  the  bulk  antigen  concentrates,  which  are  already 
marketed as monovalent vaccines (Havrix and Energix B). The total amount of aluminium (adjuvant) 
is 0.45 mg per dose. The specification for Aluminium content in the finished product is between 0.35 
and 0.65 mg/ml. The amount of aluminium per dose is well below the Ph.Eur limit. 
The preservative used for the combined vaccine is 2-Phenoxyethanol, which is also used in Havrix.  
Method of preparation 
The manufacture of the vaccine consists of : 
- 
- 
- 
- 
preparation of adsorbed HBsAg concentrate 
preparation of adsorbed HAV antigen concentrate 
pooling of the adsorbed antigens and addition of the excipients 
filling into vials or syringes and packaging 
The  process  is  carried  out  under  aseptic  conditions  using  sterile  equipment  and  sterile  solutions. 
Methods of sterilisation of the vials and syringes have been adequately provided. The filled containers 
      1/7                                                                               EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are  stored  at  2-8°C  waiting  labelling  and  packaging.  Final  bulks  and  lots  of  filled  final  containers 
(vials and syringes) were tested and shown to comply with the release specifications. 
Control of the starting materials 
HA  Ag:  HA  Ag  is  produced  on  human  diploid  MRC-5  cells.  After  virus  propagation,  the  cells  are 
washed  and  following  cell  disruption  the  virus  is  harvested.  Virus  inactivation  is  based  on  the 
principles  used in the production of inactivated polio vaccine. This inactivation  has been adequately 
validated. 
HBsAg: is produced by culture, in a selective medium of genetically engineered yeast cells. 
The details were the subject of a recent renewal application for Engerix B which received a positive 
CPMP opinion 
Reagents and other ingredients:  Calf serum: The company has documented that appropriate measures 
are in place to ensure the safety of the material 
Specifications have been provided for other reagents/excipients and, where relevant are in accordance 
with Ph. Eur. (European Pharmacopoeia) requirements. 
Control of the intermediate and finished products 
Appropriate  tests  are  carried  out  on  both  the  intermediate  products  and  the  final  product  where 
relevant,  Ph.  Eur.  and  WHO  requirements  are  met.  A  test  for  inactivation  is  described  in  the 
monograph for hepatitis A vaccine currently under preparation by the European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. 
Eur.). At such time as the Ph. Eur. Monograph becomes official, the company agrees to reconfirm that 
the  test  has  been  installed  as  established  therein.  The  specification  for  potency  of  the  HBsAg 
component in Twinrix Adult as well as Engerix B will conform to future requirements of the Ph. Eur.  
Commission. 
HAV:  Potency  of  the  adsorbed  vaccine  is  evaluated  by  an  ELISA  method.  The  method  has  been 
adequately validated. 
HBsAg:  The  potency  of  the  adsorbed  antigen  is  evaluated  by  a  direct  quantitative  determination  of 
adsorbed  HBsAg  using  an  in  vitro  immunological  method  (Enzyme  Immunoassay  “Auszyme 
monoclonal” - Abbott Laboratories). The assay method has been satisfactorily validated. 
Stability 
Adsorbed HA Ag and adsorbed HBsAg concentrates can be prepared in advance and stored at 2°C to 
8°C for a given period of time before pooling to form the final vaccine. 
The stability data provided in support of a shelf-life of 24 months was clarified by the company and 
considered to be acceptable. 
The  CPMP  on  22  May  1996  considered  that  the  additional  information  provided  as  well  as  the 
commitments agreed to by the company were acceptable. 
Manufacturing authorisations/inspection status 
This point has been addressed in section II.1 of this assessment report. 
3. 
Toxicological and pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
No pharmacodynamic data was submitted. In vivo potency tests were carried out in mice, however the 
commercial lots of HAB will be released following in vitro potency tests rather than in vivo potency 
tests. 
2/7
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
Neither the active ingredients nor the excipients used in this combination vaccine (HAB) are novel and 
their respective concentrations are within the ranges currently used in other vaccines. 
No  other  toxicity  studies  were  performed.  The  general  safety  tests  in  mice  and  guinea  pigs  were 
performed on a total of 8 lots of HAB vaccine. No abnormality was observed and the lots comply with 
the specifications laid down in Ph.Eur 
No other data was submitted or considered necessary. 
4. 
Overview of the Part IV of the dossier: clinical aspects 
Efficacy 
Data have been provided for 998 subjects aged 17-60 years all of whom received Twinrix Adult in the 
recommended  dose  schedule  (the  majority  were  under  40  years  of  age).  One  pilot  lot  and  three 
production lots were used. 
A  pilot  study  used  a  pilot  lot  and  compared  Twinrix  Adult  with  Havrix  and  Engerix  B  given  at 
different  sites  or  mixed  in  the  same  syringe.  It  was  an  open  randomized  study  in  which  healthy 
subjects received 3 doses at 0, 1 and 6 months.  
The three groups were: 
- 
- 
- 
Group 1; received Twinrix Adult (1 ml)  
Group 2; received Havrix (1 ml) in one arm and Engerix B (1ml) in the other arm 
Group 3; received Havrix and Engerix B in the same syringe (2 ml) 
Blood  samples  were  taken  at  time  0,  1,  2,  6  and  7  months.  The  results  showed  satisfactory 
immunological  responses.  Administering  the  vaccines  together  did  not  compromise  the  Geometric 
Mean antibody Titre (GMT) for HAV - in fact it was seen to be significantly higher than when they 
were given separately at different sites. All vaccines were shown to achieve protective levels of anti-
HBs.  
The adverse reaction profile was observed to be greater in terms of local effects for the vaccines mixed 
in a single syringe (Group 3: 2ml dose) compared with the single injection of 1ml vaccine doses. 
The remaining clinical studies included a total of 843 individuals and compared lots of Twinrix Adult. 
All  studies  were  carried  out  to  the  same  protocol.  The  subjects  included  were  healthy  males  and 
females in the age range of 18-60 years. Pregnant females and patients with liver enzymes twice the 
upper limit of normal were excluded. Only subjects seronegative for hepatitis A and hepatitis B were 
to be included in the studies. Immune response was measured by rate of seroconversion and GMT.  
Immunogenicity data were available for 784 of the 843 subjects enrolled. With regard to the hepatitis 
A component, a titre above cut-off was seen in 94%  of subjects after the first  dose, 99.5%  after the 
second  dose  and  100%  after  the  third  dose.  For  hepatitis  B,  71%  of  the  subjects  had  seroconverted 
after dose 1, 97% after dose 2 and 99.7% after dose 3. 
Since  the  Marketing  Authorisation  was  granted,  a  new  vaccination  schedule  0,7,  21  days  with  a 
fourth    dose  at  12  months  has  been  approved  when,  for  exceptional  circumstances,  a  travel  is 
anticipated. An update regarding the need for a booster dose of hepatitis B vaccine and regarding the 
persistence of anti-HAV and anti HBs antibodies has also been approved.  
Data are provided hereafter: 
Twinrix Adult given at new schedule (days 0, 7, 21 and month 12) 
HAB-049: This  open study of 1997-99 in adults (18-48 years; 50% each gender) compared Twinrix 
Adult given at days 0, 7, 21 plus month 12 with a combination regimen of Havrix at day 0, Engerix B 
at days 0, 7 and 21 and both mono-component vaccines at month 12. Of the 479 subjects immunised at 
3/7
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
baseline,  239  received  Twinrix.  There  were  430  subjects  boosted  at  12  months  (210  Twinrix)  and 
immunological data were available for 362 (183 Twinrix) evaluable subjects.  
The primary efficacy variable was the rate of seropositivity re HAV and seroprotection re HBsAg at 
day 28 (one week after the third injection).  
Day 28 immune responses 
• 
For  antibody  to  HAV  in  the  403  evaluable  subjects  at  this  timepoint,  all  subjects  were 
seropositive  after  three  doses  of  Twinrix  and  190/192  (99%)  were  seropositive  after  a  single 
dose  of  Havrix at day  0. Although Havrix contains twice the viral antigen  content of Twinrix 
(1440  vs  720  ELISA  IU),  the  GMC  after  Twinrix  was  significantly  higher  at  845  mIU/mL, 
compared  with  512  mIU/mL  after  Havrix.  At  three  months  from  baseline,  seropositivity  rates 
were 100% for Twinrix and 98% for Havrix, with GMCs at 628 and 219 mIU/mL, respectively. 
At  months  1,  2  and  3,  the  lower  95%  CIs  around  the  differences  in  seropositive  rates  were 
within -4%. In the ITT cohort, the findings at months 1, 2 and 3 were entirely consistent with 
the results from the evaluable patient subset. 
For  antibody  to  HBsAg  at  day  28,  82%  in  the  Twinrix  group  were  seroprotected  after  three 
doses within 21 days, compared with 84% after three doses of Engerix B at the same timepoints. 
The GMCs were not significantly different at 65 and 98 mIU/mL, respectively. At three months 
from  baseline,  based  on  390  subjects,  95%  in  the  Twinrix  group  and  91%  in  the  Engerix  B 
group were seroprotected; GMCs were 183 and 131 mIU/mL, respectively. At months 1, 2 and 
3,  the  95%  CIs  around  the  differences  in  seroprotection  rates  were  within  -10%.  In  the  ITT 
cohort,  the  findings  at  months  1,  2  and  3  were  entirely  consistent  with  the  results  from  the 
evaluable patient subset. 
• 
At day 28, 82% in the Twinrix group and 83% in the comparative group were both seropositive with 
regard to HAV and seroprotected with regard to HBsAg. 
Responses to the booster dose at month 12 
• 
For  antibody  to  HAV,  96%  in  the  Twinrix  group  and  95%  in  the  Havrix  group  were  still 
seropositive before boosting and all subjects were seropositive at month 13. The pre-dose and 
post-dose GMCs were significantly higher in the Twinrix group at 373 and 170 mIU/mL and at 
9571 and 5205 mIU/mL, respectively. Results for the ITT cohort reflected these findings. 
• 
For  antibody  to  HBsAg,  94%  in  the  Twinrix  group  and  92%  in  the  Engerix  B  group  were 
seroprotected  pre-boosting  and  all  met  this  criterion  at  month  13.  The  pre-dose  GMCs  were 
significantly higher in the Twinrix group (209 and 106 mIU/mL) but the post-dose GMCs were 
comparable at 26,000 and 29,200 mIU/mL. Results for the ITT cohort reflected these findings. 
At  month  13,  90%  in  the  Twinrix  group  and  88%  in  the  comparative  group  were  both  seropositive 
with regard to HAV and seroprotected with regard to HBsAg. 
Long-term antibody persistence 
Since the data on long-term antibody levels are compared with trials with Havrix and Engerix B, these 
early trials are summarised below. 
Study with Havrix:  
• 
HAV-058:  The  study  commenced  in  1990,  this  was  a  two-lot  consistency  study  of  HAV  720 
EL.U vaccine in adults of 18-29 years. The report describes additional long-term follow up from 
month 60 to month 96; 45 subjects returned at the last timepoint and 40 of these were evaluable. 
Study with Engerix B: 
• 
HBV-006: The study commenced in 1985 and initially randomised 300 adults (mean 24 years) 
to receive: 
4/7
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
(cid:131)  three doses of recombinant HBsAg at one of 10, 20 or 40 µg per dose at 0, 1 and 6 
months (all Lot L) or  
(cid:131)  three doses at one of 10 or 20 µg per dose (all Lot N) or  
(cid:131)  three doses of the licensed plasma-derived HBsAg vaccine (20 µg per dose)  
Of  these  300,  269  were  initially  seronegative  and  remained  evaluable  in  the  initial  analysis;  168  of 
these had not received a booster and were available for follow-up at month 60. Data from months 7 
and 60 were available for 165 subjects. 
Study with Twinrix Adult 
• 
HAB-028: This study commenced in 1993 as a three-lot consistency study with Twinrix Adult. 
Of  the  150  subjects  of  17-39  years  initially  vaccinated,  58  returned  at  month  60.  Serological 
data are presented for 44 of these who met the protocol requirements for evaluability and also 
for all the 58 subjects.  
HAB-032:  This  study  also  commenced  in  1993  as  a  three-lot  consistency  study  with 
Twinrix Adult. Of the 157 subjects of 17-43 years initially vaccinated, 92 returned at month 
60.  Serological  data  are  presented  for  69  of  these  who  met  the  protocol  requirements  for 
evaluability and also for all the 92 subjects. 
Study with Twinrix Paediatric 
• 
HAB-039:  This  study  commenced  in  1994  as  a  single  lot,  open  study  of  Twinrix  Paediatric 
administration in children of 1-6 years. The study proposed follow-up for up to 48 months. Of 
the 60 children immunised at baseline, 43 returned at month 48 and 40 of these children met the 
evaluability criteria for assessment of immune responses. 
The conclusions from these studies were the following: 
HAV:  
• 
The GMT at one month after the second dose of Havrix (total 2880 ELISA IU) in study 058 was 
less than observed at one month after the third dose of Twinrix in the two studies in adults (028, 
032) and one study in children (039). In the latter studies, three doses of 720 ELISA IU were 
given to adults and three doses of 360 ELISA IU were given to children. At 36 and 48 months, 
GMCs in the Twinrix studies ranged from approximately 50-110% of that reported in 058.  
All  adults  and  children  followed  to  60  and  48  months,  respectively,  in  the  Twinrix  studies 
remained seropositive, as did all those followed in study 058 after Havrix. 
HbsAg: 
• 
In study 006, the GMTs at month 7 were very similar for the two groups given 20 µg antigen 
(2067  and  2106  mIU/mL),  falling  to  120  and  218  mIU/mL,  respectively,  at  month  60.  In  the 
Twinrix studies in adults (028 and 032), GMCs at month 60 were 320 and 115 mIU/mL. In the 
study in children (039), the GMC for those followed to month 48 was 308 mIU/mL. 
In study 006 at month 60, all subjects who were seronegative at baseline, received recombinant 
HBsAg  at  months  0,  1  and  6,  and  returned  for  evaluation  were  still  seropositive.  The 
seroprotection rates at month 60 were 96% and 100% in the 20 µg dose groups. In the Twinrix 
studies  in  adults  (028  and  032),  93-96%  were  seroprotected  at  month  60  and  98-100%  were 
seropositive. In the study in children (039), all children followed to month 48 were seropositive 
and 98% were seroprotected.  
Safety 
The  most  common  local  reaction  was  soreness  at  the  site  of  injection  (43%).  Other  main  local  side 
effects included redness (17%) and swelling (11%). These reactions were defined as severe in 1-2% of 
the  subjects.  There  were  no  clinically  significant  differences  between  lots  except  for  one  lot  which 
showed significantly less redness (p<0.03). 
Systemic side effects were observed in approximately 17% of subjects. The most common side effects 
were  headache  (9%),  fatigue  (10%),  malaise  (5%)  and  nausea  (3%).  Fever  was  rarely  reported. 
Systemic  side  effects  were  judged  to  be  severe  in  approximately  1%  of  the  cases.  There  were  no 
5/7
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
differences in the incidence of systemic side effects between groups in the pilot study or between lots 
in the main studies. 
No deaths were reported. Administration of the vaccine to previously seropositive individuals was not 
found to be hazardous. 
Post marketing data 
The  following  reactions  have  been  reported  very  rarely  in  temporal  association  with  Twinrix 
vaccination:  
• 
Body  as  a  whole:  flu-like  symptoms  (fever,  chills,  headache,  myalgia,  arthralgia),  fatigue, 
allergic  reactions  including  anaphylactic  and  anaphylactoid  reactions  and  serum  sickness  like 
disease 
Cardiovascular general: syncope, hypotension 
Central and peripheral nervous system: dizziness, paraesthesia 
Gastro-intestinal system: nausea, vomiting, decreased appetite, diarrhoea, abdominal pain 
Liver and Biliary system: abnormal liver function tests 
Neurological disorders: convulsions 
Platelet, bleeding and clotting: thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura 
Skin and appendages: rash, pruritis, urticaria 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  White cell and reticuloendothelial system: lymphadenopathy 
All these changes have been included in the product information. 
In  addition,  the  following  reactions  have  been  included  in  the  product  information  within  a  section 
relating specifically to post-marketing experience with the monovalent vaccines: 
• 
Central and peripheral nervous system: cases of peripheral and/or central neurological disorders, 
and  may  include  multiple  sclerosis,  optic  neuritis,  myelitis,  Bell’s  palsy,  polyneuritis  such  as 
Guillain-Barre syndrome (with ascending paralysis), meningitis, encephalitis, encephalopathy 
Skin and Appendage: erythema exsudativum multiforme 
Vascular extracardiac: vasculitis 
• 
• 
Other studies 
A study involving the measurement of liver enzymes from subjects was carried out. Two participants 
were  noted  to  have  an  increase  in  either  AST  or  ALT  greater  than  two-fold.  These  were  withdrawn 
from the study and follow-up blood samples showed that the levels returned to normal. No symptoms 
were recorded in association with the elevated enzymes. 
The  clinical  programme  also  included  testing  for  both  anti-HAV  antibodies  and  neutralising 
antibodies. The results showed that the antibodies elicited by vaccination had neutralising activity. 
An additional study was also performed on healthy seronegative subjects over the age of 40 years. The 
reactogenicity profile was found to be similar to that found in young adults. Although the GMT was 
observed to be lower than in the young, seroconversion rate was found to be the same. No additional 
safety  hazards  were  observed  in  this  age  group.  These  results  have  been  seen  before  with  the 
component vaccines.  
Long  term  immunogenicity  and  safety  profile  of  this  combination  vaccine  has  been  studied  in  the 
follow-up of 2 studies, over a period of 18 months. The kinetics of decline of both anti-HAV and anti-
HAB  after  administration  of  Twinrix  Adult  are  observed  to  be  similar  to  those  observed  for  the 
monovalent vaccines. 
6/7
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Conclusions 
The  formulation  of  Twinrix  Adult  is  a  combination  of  two  different  previously  authorised  active 
ingredients,  which  are  the  same  active  ingredients  in  the  vaccines:  Havrix  Adult  and  Engerix-B,  for 
the prevention of Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B prophylaxis respectively. 
The clinical data submitted with this application for the combined hepatitis vaccine Twinrix Adult was 
considered  to  be  sufficient  for  the  approved  indication  of:  “TWINRIX  Adult  is  indicated  for  use  in 
non immune adults and adolescents of 16 years of age and above who are at risk of both  hepatitis A 
and hepatitis B infection.”.  
A  number  of  outstanding  pharmaceutical  points  were  identified  during  the  evaluation  procedure. 
Additional  information  was  submitted  by  the  company  and  further  addressed  by  way  of  oral 
explanations  during  the  CPMP  break-out  session  on  20  May  1996.  These  outstanding  points  were 
considered  by  the  CPMP  to  be  sufficiently  addressed.  The  company  also  committed  itself  to  submit 
additional information on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects as requested by the CPMP. 
Thus  the  CPMP  concluded  that  the  overall  benefit/risk  analysis  was  favourable  and  granted  two 
positive opinions for Twinrix Adult to accommodate for the monodose syringe and vial presentations.  
Since the Marketing Authorisation was granted, a new vaccination schedule 0,7, 21 days with a fourth  
dose at 12 months has been approved when, for exceptional circumstances, a travel is anticipated. An 
update regarding the need for a booster dose of hepatitis B vaccine and regarding the persistence of 
anti-HAV and anti HBs antibodies has also been approved. 
In  addition,  at  the  time  of  the  5-year  renewal,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of 
Twinrix adult continued to be favourable and therefore, recommended the renewal of the Marketing 
Authorisation. Since then, new safety data have been received which led to amendments in the product 
information. 
At the request of the CPMP, following the results of a retrospective analysis conducted in Germany of 
immunogenicity in 104 subjects who had received a full course of Twinrix Adult between 1997-2000, 
the  Twinrix  adult  product  information  was  updated  in  order  to  reflect  the  factors  that  may lead  to  a 
sub-optimal immune response to the HbsAg component of the vaccine. 
7/7
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
