SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  TWINRIX  Paediatric. 
This scientific discussion has been updated until 01 February 2004.  For information on changes 
after this date please refer to module 8B 
1 
Introduction 
Hepatitis A and hepatitis B virus infections represent the most frequent forms of viral disease of the 
liver. It is widely accepted that prophylaxis against hepatitis A and hepatitis B in the form of vaccines, 
is the most efficacious way of offering long-term protection. 
A combined Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B vaccine for use in adults and adolescents aged 16 years and 
over, Twinrix Adult was granted a positive opinion by the CPMP on 22 May 1996 and the European 
Commission  granted  a  marketing  authorisation  on  20  September  1996.  The  Company  subsequently 
submitted an application for a marketing authorization for Twinrix Paediatric, a combined hepatitis A, 
hepatitis B vaccine for use in the paediatric population. 
The Adult and Paediatric Twinrix vaccines differ only in fill volume (1.0 and 0.5 ml respectively) and 
in product literature particulars. All agreements made by the Company with the Members States with 
respect to Twinrix Adult were applied for Twinrix Paediatric.  
The indication for Twinrix Paediatric is as follows: 
“Twinrix Paediatric is indicated for use in non immune infants, children and adolescents from 1 year 
up to and including 15 years who are at risk of both Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B infection.” 
2 
Chemical, biological and pharmaceutical, aspects 
Composition of the medicinal product 
A 0.5  ml dose of  Twinrix  Paediatric  contains not less than  360 ELISA Units  of purified inactivated 
HA virus and 10 µg of purified recombinant HBsAg protein. 
The  total  amount  of  aluminium  (Al)  is  0.225mg  per  dose.  (specification  0.35  –  0.65  mg/ml).  The 
amount of aluminium per dose is well below the Ph. Eur. limit. 
2-phenoxyethanol  is  used  as  preservative.  This  preservative  is  also  used  in  Havrix,  the  Company’s 
Hepatitis A monovalent vaccine. 
The composition of Twinrix Paediatric is quantitatively one half, for all ingredients, that of the adult 
vaccine. The dose volume of the paediatric vaccine is 0.5 ml that of the adult vaccine, 1.0 ml.  
Since  Twinrix  Paediatric  and  Twinrix  Adult  are  identical  in  every  respect  except  the  quantitative 
composition, the pharmaceutical report of Twinrix Paediatric differed from that of Twinrix Adult only 
in respect of changes requested as a result of the company responding to the CPMP Consolidated List 
of Questions for the adult vaccine.. 
Method of preparation 
The manufacture of the vaccine consists of : 
• 
• 
• 
• 
preparation of adsorbed HBsAg concentrate 
preparation of adsorbed HAV antigen concentrate 
pooling of the adsorbed antigens and addition of the excipients 
filling into sterile vials or syringes and packaging 
Information on manufacture of the active ingredients (HBsAg and HAV antigen) is given below. With 
respect to manufacture of the finished product, the vaccine is formulated by pooling bulk preparations 
of  purified  inactivated  hepatitis  A  virus  (HA)  and  purified  recombinant  hepatitis  B  surface  antigen 
(HBs Ag) separately adsorbed onto aluminium salts, resulting in the final bulk which is filled in final 
1/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
containers.  The  formulation  is,  to  a  large  extent,  a  blend  of  the  bulk  antigen  concentrates  which  are 
used for the monovalent vaccines Havrix and Engerix B  
Formulation  and  filling  are  carried  out  under  aseptic  conditions  using  sterile  equipment  and  sterile 
solutions. 
The filled containers are stored at 2-8° C waiting labelling and packaging. Final bulks and lots of filled 
final  containers  (vials  and  syringes)  are  tested  for  compliance  with  the  release  specifications. 
Consistency of production is shown by the consecutive production lots meeting the release control test 
specifications (see below). 
Manufacture and control of the starting materials 
HA  Ag:  HA  Ag  is  produced  on  human  diploid  MRC-5  cells.  After  virus  propagation  the  cells  are 
washed  and  following  cell  disruption  the  virus  is  harvested.  Virus  inactivation  is  based  on  the 
principles  used  in  the  production  of  inactivated  polio  vaccine.  Inactivation  has  been  adequately 
validated.  
HBsAg: HBsAg is produced by culture, in a selective medium, of genetically engineered yeast cells 
Reagents and other ingredients: The company has documented that appropriate measures are in place 
to ensure the safety of the calf serum used in production of the HAV antigen. Specifications have been 
provided  for  all  other  reagents/excipients  used  in  production  of  the  vaccine  and  these  are,  where 
relevant, in accordance with Ph.Eur monographs.  
Control of the intermediate and finished product 
Appropriate  tests  are  carried  out  on  both  the  intermediate  products  and  the  final  product.  Where 
relevant, Ph. Eur. and WHO requirements are met.  
HAV assay: Potency of the adsorbed vaccine is evaluated by an ELISA method. The method has been 
adequately validated. 
HBsAg assay: The potency of the adsorbed antigen is evaluated by a direct quantitative determination 
of adsorbed HBsAg using an in vitro immunological method.. 
The general safety test in mice and guinea pigs was performed on a total of 8 lots of HAB vaccine. No 
abnormality was observed and the lots complied with the specifications laid down in Ph. Eur. In line 
with the trend to reduce the use of animals in testing of  medicinal products and in line with the Ph. 
Eur. recommendations, the general safety test is no longer conducted for routine QC release. 
The product is subject to EC Batch Release Protocols in accordance with EC Guidelines III/5861/93 
and  III/3382/93:  ‘Control  Authority  Batch  Release  of  Hepatitis  A  Vaccine  and  Hepatitis  B  Vaccine 
(rDNA)’ respectively. 
Stability 
Adsorbed HA Ag and adsorbed HBsAg concentrates can be prepared in advance and stored at 2° C to 
8° C for a given period of time before pooling to form the final vaccine.  
Stability data supporting a shelf life of 24 months for the final filled product was provided. at the time 
of  approval.  Additional  data  supporting  the  extension  of  the  shelf-life  to  36  months  at  +2  –  +8  ˚C  
were submitted later on and approved. 
3 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
No formal toxicology studies were presented or considered necessary at the time of approval, by the 
CPMP. 
2/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Clinical aspects 
A  pilot  study  compared  the  combined  vaccine  Twinrix  Adult  (pilot  lot)  with  Havrix  (hepatitis  A 
vaccine) and Engerix-B (hepatitis B vaccine) given at different sites or mixed in the same syringe. It 
was an open randomised study in which healthy adults received 3 doses at 0, 1 and 6 months. The 3 
groups were: 
• 
• 
• 
Group 1 received Twinrix (1 ml) 
Group 2 received Havrix (1 ml) in one arm and Engerix B (1 ml) in the other arm 
Group 3 received Havrix and Engerix B in the same syringe (2 ml) 
Blood  samples  were  taken  at  time  0,  1,  2,  6  and  7  months.  The  results  showed  satisfactory 
immunological  response.  Administering  the  vaccines  together  did  not  compromise  the  Geometric 
Mean antibody Titre (GMT) for HAV. All vaccinees were also shown to achieve protective levels of 
anti-HBs. 
The  incidence  of  adverse  reactions  were  observed  to  be  lower  for  Twinrix  Adult  than  for  the  two 
monovalent  vaccines  mixed  in  a  single  syringe,  and  not  significantly  different  from  the  incidence 
observed when the two monovalent vaccines were administered simultaneously. 
The clinical evaluation of the lot-to-lot consistency of the production methods was performed on data 
from 6 clinical trials carried out using the adult presentation of the combined Hepatitis A and Hepatitis 
B vaccine. These data had previously been provided with the Twinrix Adult application.  
As identical methods were used for the production of the paediatric presentation, the results from the 
studies in adults were considered to be applicable also to the paediatric presentation they demonstrated 
that  production  lots  are  consistent  with  respect  to  both  the  reactogenicity  profile  and  the  immune 
response, which they induce. 
Efficacy 
Two  studies  were  carried  out  in  children  and  adolescents  to  evaluate  the  reactogenicity  and 
immunogenicity of the combined Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B vaccine at the paediatric dosage level. 
The same lots as for adults were assessed; one lot in children aged 1-6 years and two lots in children 
aged 6-15 years A total of 180 subjects were vaccinated and analysed for reactogenicity; 168 (93.3%) 
of these were included in the analysis of immunogenicity.  The reasons for exclusion  of the  subjects 
have been documented in the individual study reports. 
Results  show  an  immune  response  at  least  as  good  as  that  seen  during  the  adult  studies  for  both 
components.  All  children  had  satisfactory  anti-HAV  antibody  levels  by  month  2.  Almost  100% 
showed  an  anti-HBs    titre  ≥10  mIU/ml  (=seroprotection)  at  the  sixth  month  timepoint,  just  prior  to 
administration of the third vaccine dose. In both cases substantial increases in antibody titre response 
occurred after the third dose. 
Although  no  long  term  follow-up  data  were  submitted  in  the  original  application.,  The  applicant 
contended  that  since  the  immunogenicity  results  seen  in  these  two  studies  were  at  least  as  good  as 
those  seen  in  the  adult  studies,  the  persistence  of  protection  which  was  shown  in  adult  studies  (18 
month  follow-up  in  adult  volunteers  for  Twinrix  Adult)    could  be  extrapolated  to  the  childhood 
setting.. 
The  lack  of  long-term  immunogenicity  data  was  considered  and  discussed  by  the  CPMP  and  it  was 
agreed  that  long-term  immunogenicity  data  in  relation  to  the  persistence  of  immune  response  in  the 
relevant patient group should be provided as a follow-up measure. Data which have subsequently been 
submitted in fulfillment of this follow-up measure support the application of similar recommendations 
for  boosting  after  a  standard  primary  course  of  Twinrix  Paediatric  as  are  adopted  after  standard 
courses of Twinrix Adult or of age appropriate Havrix and Engerix B. 
The data submitted were derived from five studies in which the immunization schedule was 0,1 and 6 
months.  Three  of  the  trials  were  follow-up  reports  on  trials  submitted  in  the  original  dossier  for 
approval  of  Twinrix  Adult  (two  studies)  and  Twinrix  Paediatric  (one  study).  The  remaining  two 
reports contained long-term data on antibody titres in adults following Havrix or Engerix B.  
3/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since the Marketing Authorisation was granted, an update regarding the need for a booster dose of 
hepatitis  B  vaccine  and  regarding  the  persistence  of  anti-HAV  and  anti  HBs  antibodies  has  been 
approved. 
Since the data on long-term antibody levels are compared with trials with Havrix and Engerix B, these 
early trials are summarised below. 
Study with Havrix:  
• 
HAV-058:  The  study  commenced  in  1990,  this  was  a  two-lot  consistency  study  of  HAV  720 
EL.U vaccine in adults of 18-29 years. The report describes additional long-term follow up from 
month 60 to month 96; 45 subjects returned at the last timepoint and 40 of these were evaluable. 
Study with Engerix B: 
• 
HBV-006: The study commenced in 1985 and initially randomised 300 adults (mean 24 years) 
to receive: 
(cid:131)  three doses of recombinant HBsAg at one of 10, 20 or 40 µg per dose at 0, 1 and 6 
months (all Lot L) or  
(cid:131)  three doses at one of 10 or 20 µg per dose (all Lot N) or  
(cid:131)  three doses of the licensed plasma-derived HBsAg vaccine (20 µg per dose)  
Of these 300, 269 were initially seronegative and remained evaluable in the initial analysis; 168 of 
these had not received a booster and were available for follow-up at month 60. Data from months 7 
and 60 were available for 165 subjects. 
Study with Twinrix Adult 
• 
HAB-028: This study commenced in 1993 as a three-lot consistency study with Twinrix Adult. 
Of  the  150  subjects  of  17-39  years  initially  vaccinated,  58  returned  at  month  60.  Serological 
data are presented for 44 of these who met the protocol requirements for evaluability and also 
for all the 58 subjects.  
HAB-032:  This  study  also  commenced  in  1993  as  a  three-lot  consistency  study  with  Twinrix 
Adult.  Of  the  157  subjects  of  17-43  years  initially  vaccinated,  92  returned  at  month  60. 
Serological  data  are  presented  for  69  of  these  who  met  the  protocol  requirements  for 
evaluability and also for all the 92 subjects. 
Study with Twinrix Paediatric 
• 
HAB-039:  This  study  commenced  in  1994  as  a  single  lot,  open  study  of  Twinrix  Paediatric 
administration in children of 1-6 years. The study proposed follow-up for up to 48 months. Of 
the 60 children immunised at baseline, 43 returned at month 48 and 40 of these children met the 
evaluability criteria for assessment of immune responses. 
The conclusions from these studies were the following 
HAV:  
• 
The GMT at one month after the second dose of Havrix (total 2880 ELISA IU) in study 058 was 
less than observed at one month after the third dose of Twinrix in the two studies in adults (028, 
032)  and  one  study  in  children  (039).  In  the  latter  studies,  three  doses  of  720  ELISA  IU  was 
given to adults and three doses of 360 ELISA IU were given to children. At 36 and 48 months, 
GMCs in the Twinrix studies ranged from approximately 50-110% of that reported in 058.  
All  adults  and  children  followed  to  60  and  48  months,  respectively,  in  the  Twinrix  studies 
remained seropositive, as did all those followed in study 058 after Havrix. 
HbsAg: 
• 
In study 006, the GMTs at month 7 were very similar for the two groups given 20 µg antigen 
(2067  and  2106  mIU/mL),  falling  to  120  and  218  mIU/mL,  respectively,  at  month  60.  In  the 
4/6 
EMEA 2005 
• 
• 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Twinrix studies in adults (028 and 032), GMCs at month 60 were 320 and 115 mIU/mL. In the 
study in children (039), the GMC for those followed to month 48 was 308 mIU/mL. 
In study 006 at month 60, all subjects who were seronegative at baseline, received recombinant 
HBsAg  at  months  0,  1  and  6,  and  returned  for  evaluation  were  still  seropositive.  The 
seroprotection rates at month 60 were 96% and 100% in the 20 µg dose groups. In the Twinrix 
studies  in  adults  (028  and  032),  93-96%  were  seroprotected  at  month  60  and  98-100%  were 
seropositive. In the study in children (039), all children followed to month 48 were seropositive 
and 98% were seroprotected.  
Safety 
In  summary,  in  the  original  application,  a  total  of  538  doses  of  vaccine  were  administered  to  180 
subjects  and  data  were  available  for  all  doses  administered.  Adverse  events  were  reported  in 
approximately 45% of administrations in all subject groups. There was no increased incidence of ADR 
reports  with  successive  vaccine  injections.  Although  there  was  a  slight  trend  towards  decreased 
frequency, particularly of local reactions, with increasing age; the number were small. 
Local  adverse  reactions  were  reported  after  approximately  30%  of  injections  whereas  systemic 
reactions  were  reported  after  approximately  21%  of  doses.  The  majority  of  these  were  reported  as 
mild.  The  most  common  local  side  effect  was  soreness.  This  usually  resolved  within  24  hours. 
Virtually all reported cases of soreness resolved spontaneously by day 3. Other local side effects were 
redness and swelling. 
In  terms  of  systemic  effects,  the  most  commonly  reported  was  fatigue  (11%)  followed  by  headache 
(8%), then malaise (7%). Fever was reported following less than 4% of all doses; temperature > 39°C 
was reported with an overall incidence of <0.5%. 
Only one serious adverse event was reported amongst the 180 subjects participating in the paediatric 
studies.  An  8-year-old  child  experienced  headache,  fever,  photophobia,  conjunctivitis  and 
lymphadenopathy, two days after the first vaccine dose. The symptoms resolved within four days. The 
child was withdrawn from the study. 
Unsolicited symptoms were mostly mild and no patterns were evident. Intercurrent infections (upper 
respiratory tract infection, otitis media, chicken pox) were the most common reported. 
There were no deaths reported in any of the studies. 
Post marketing data 
The  following  reactions  have  been  reported  very  rarely  in  temporal  association  with  Twinrix 
vaccination:  
• 
Body  as  a  whole:  flu-like  symptoms  (fever,  chills,  headache,  myalgia,  arthralgia),  fatigue, 
allergic  reactions  including  anaphylactic  and  anaphylactoid  reactions  and  serum  sickness  like 
disease 
Cardiovascular general: syncope, hypotension 
Central and peripheral nervous system: dizziness, paraesthesia 
Gastro-intestinal system: nausea, vomiting, decreased appetite, diarrhoea, abdominal pain 
Liver and Biliary system: abnormal liver function tests 
Neurological disorders: convulsions 
Platelet, bleeding and clotting: thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura 
Skin and appendages: rash, pruritis, urticaria 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  White cell and reticuloendothelial system: lymphadenopathy 
All these changes have been included in the product information. 
In addition, the following very rarely reported reactions have been included in the product information 
within a section relating specifically to post-marketing experience with the monovalent vaccines: 
5/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Central and peripheral nervous system: cases of peripheral and/or central neurological disorders, 
and  may  include  multiple  sclerosis,  optic  neuritis,  myelitis,  Bell’s  palsy,  polyneuritis  such  as 
Guillain-Barre syndrome (with ascending paralysis), meningitis, encephalitis, encephalopathy 
Skin and Appendage: erythema exsudativum multiforme 
Vascular extracardiac: vasculitis 
Other studies 
The applicant resubmitted summary reports of all six studies submitted in support of Twinrix Adult. 
The  results  from  these  studies  were  similar  to  those  seen  in  children  and  supported  the  applicants 
contention that the immune response seen following vaccination of adults could be extrapolated to the 
childhood setting. 
Postmarketing Surveillance 
GSK Biologicals has taken the appropriate steps to ensure that the SPC text will reflect information on 
the Company’s database. 
5  Conclusions 
Twinrix  Paediatric  is  a  combined  Hepatitis  A  and  Hepatitis  B  vaccine.  The  formulation  of  Twinrix 
Paediatric is a combination of two active substances used in different previously authorised vaccines: 
Havrix and Engerix-B, for the prevention of Hepatitis A and Hepatits B infections respectively.  A few 
outstanding  pharmaceutical  issues  were  identified  during  the  evaluation  procedure.  Following  a 
company response on these points, the CPMP during their meeting on 15-17 October 1996 concluded 
that the company had satisfactorily resolved these issues.  
The clinical data submitted with this application for the combined hepatitis A and B vaccine Twinrix 
Paediatric  was  considered  to  be  sufficient  for  approval  of  the  indication  “Twinrix  Paediatric  is 
indicated for use in non immune infants, children and adolescents from 1 year up to and including 15 
years who are at risk of both hepatitis A and hepatitis B infection.” The proposed amendments of the 
SPC text were also considered to be satisfactory and were adopted by the CPMP during this meeting. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Twinrix  Paediatric  “for  use  in  non  immune  infants,  children  and 
adolescents from 1 year up to and including 15 years who are at risk of both hepatitis A and hepatitis 
B infection.” was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Nevertheless the lack of long-term immunogenicity was considered and discussed by the CPMP and it 
was agreed that long-term immunogenicity data in relation to the persistence of immune response in 
the relevant patient group should be provided as a follow-up measure. This information has meanwhile 
been provided as summarised above and these data submitted by the Company are considered by the 
CPMP, to adequately support the current SPC text. 
Additional  information  requested  by  the  CPMP  on  pharmaceutical  and  clinical  aspects  has  been 
provided.  Where  information  is  in  the  course  of  being  generated,  the  Company  has  committed  to 
provide this to the CPMP within the specified time frame.  
The overall benefit/risk analysis remains favourable following the renewal of the Marketing 
Authorisation in November 2001.  
Since  the  Marketing  Authorisation  was  granted,  an  update  regarding  the  need  for  a  booster  dose  of 
hepatitis  B  vaccine  and  regarding  the  persistence  of  anti-HAV  and  anti  HBs  antibodies  has  been 
approved. 
In  addition,  at  the  time  of  the  5-year  renewal,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of 
Twinrix  paediatric  continued  to  be  favourable  and  therefore,  recommended  the  renewal  of  the 
Marketing Authorisation. Since then, new safety data have been received which led to amendments in 
the product information. 
6/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
