ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Twinrix Adult, suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Hepatitis A (inactivated) and hepatitis B (rDNA) (HAB) vaccine (adsorbed). 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
1 dose (1 ml) contains: 
Hepatitis A virus (inactivated)1,2 
Hepatitis B surface antigen3,4 
720 ELISA Units 
20 micrograms 
1Produced on human diploid (MRC-5) cells 
2Adsorbed on aluminium hydroxide, hydrated 
3Produced in yeast cells (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) by recombinant DNA technology 
4Adsorbed on aluminium phosphate 
0.05 milligrams Al3+ 
0.4 milligrams Al3+ 
The vaccine may contain traces of neomycin which is used during the manufacturing process (see 
section 4.3). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Suspension for injection. 
Turbid white suspension. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Twinrix Adult is indicated for use in non immune adults and adolescents 16 years of age and above 
who are at risk of both hepatitis A and hepatitis B infection. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Posology  
- Dosage 
A dose of 1.0 ml is recommended for adults and adolescents 16 years of age and above. 
- Primary vaccination schedule 
The standard primary course of vaccination with Twinrix Adult consists of three doses, the first 
administered at the elected date, the second one month later and the third six months after the first 
dose. 
In exceptional circumstances in adults, when travel is anticipated within one month or more after 
initiating the vaccination course, but where insufficient time is available to allow the standard 0, 1, 6 
month schedule to be completed, a schedule of three intramuscular injections given at 0, 7 and 21 days 
may be used. When this schedule is applied, a fourth dose is recommended 12 months after the first 
dose. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended schedule should be adhered to. Once initiated, the primary course of vaccination 
should be completed with the same vaccine. 
- Booster dose 
Long-term antibody persistence data following vaccination with Twinrix Adult are available up to 20 
years after vaccination (see section 5.1). The anti-HBs and anti-HAV antibody titres observed 
following a primary vaccination course with the combined vaccine are in the range of what is seen 
following vaccination with the monovalent vaccines. General guidelines for booster vaccination can 
therefore be drawn from experience with the monovalent vaccines.  
Hepatitis B 
The need for a booster dose of hepatitis B vaccine in healthy individuals who have received a full 
primary vaccination course has not been established; however some official vaccination programmes 
currently include a recommendation for a booster dose of hepatitis B vaccine and these should be 
respected. 
For some categories of subjects or patients exposed to HBV (e.g; haemodialysis or 
immunocompromised patients) a precautionary attitude should be considered to ensure a protective 
antibody level ≥ 10IU/l. 
Hepatitis A 
It is not yet fully established whether immunocompetent individuals who have responded to hepatitis 
A vaccination will require booster doses as protection in the absence of detectable antibodies may be 
ensured by immunological memory. Guidelines for boosting are based on the assumption that 
antibodies are required for protection. 
In situations where a booster dose of both hepatitis A and hepatitis B are desired, Twinrix Adult can 
be given. Alternatively, subjects primed with Twinrix Adult may be administered a booster dose of 
either of the monovalent vaccines. 
Method of administration  
Twinrix Adult is for intramuscular injection, preferably in the deltoid region. 
Exceptionally the vaccine may be administered subcutaneously in patients with thrombocytopenia or 
bleeding disorders. However, this route of administration may result in suboptimal immune response 
to the vaccine (see section 4.4). 
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 or neomycin. 
Hypersensitivity after previous administration of hepatitis A and/or hepatitis B vaccines. 
The administration of Twinrix Adult should be postponed in subjects suffering from acute severe 
febrile illness. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Syncope (fainting) can occur following, or even before, any vaccination especially in adolescents as a 
psychogenic response to the needle injection. This can be accompanied by several neurological signs 
such as transient visual disturbance, paraesthesia and tonic-clonic limb movements during recovery. It 
is important that procedures are in place to avoid injury from faints. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is possible that subjects may be in the incubation period of a hepatitis A or hepatitis B infection at 
the time of vaccination. It is not known whether Twinrix Adult will prevent hepatitis A and hepatitis B 
in such cases. 
The vaccine will not prevent infection caused by other agents such as hepatitis C and hepatitis E and 
other pathogens known to infect the liver. 
Twinrix Adult is not recommended for postexposure prophylaxis (e.g. needle stick injury). 
The vaccine has not been tested in patients with impaired immunity. In haemodialysis patients and 
persons with an impaired immune system, adequate anti-HAV and anti-HBs antibody titres may not be 
obtained after the primary immunisation course and such patients may therefore require administration 
of additional doses of vaccine. 
Obesity (defined as BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2) has been observed to reduce the immune response to hepatitis A 
vaccines. A number of factors have been observed to reduce the immune response to hepatitis B 
vaccines. These factors include older age, male gender, obesity, smoking, route of administration, and 
some chronic underlying diseases. Consideration should be given to serological testing of those 
subjects who may be at risk of not achieving seroprotection following a complete course of Twinrix 
Adult. Additional doses may need to be considered for persons who do not respond or have a sub-
optimal response to a course of vaccinations. 
As with all injectable vaccines, appropriate medical treatment and supervision should always be 
readily available in case of a rare anaphylactic event following the administration of the vaccine. 
Since intradermal injection or intramuscular administration into the gluteal muscle could lead to a 
suboptimal response to the vaccine, these routes should be avoided. However, exceptionally Twinrix 
Adult can be administered subcutaneously to subjects with thrombocytopenia or bleeding disorders 
since bleeding may occur following an intramuscular administration to these subjects (see section 4.2). 
Twinrix Adult should under no circumstances be administered intravascularly. 
As with any vaccine, a protective immune response may not be elicited in all vaccinees. 
This vaccine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No data on concomitant administration of Twinrix Adult with specific hepatitis A immunoglobulin or 
hepatitis B immunoglobulin have been generated. However, when the monovalent hepatitis A and 
hepatitis B vaccines were administered concomitantly with specific immunoglobulins, no influence on 
seroconversion was observed although it may result in lower antibody titres. 
Although the concomitant administration of Twinrix Adult and other vaccines has not specifically 
been studied, it is anticipated that, if different syringes and other injection sites are used, no interaction 
will be observed. 
It may be expected that in patients receiving immunosuppressive treatment or patients with 
immunodeficiency, an adequate response may not be achieved. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy  
The effect of Twinrix Adult on embryo-fetal, peri-natal and post-natal survival and development has 
been assessed in rats. This study did not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to 
fertility, pregnancy, embryonal/fetal development, parturition or post-natal development. 
The effect of Twinrix Adult on embryo-fetal, peri-natal and post-natal survival and development has 
not been prospectively evaluated in clinical trials. 
Data on outcomes of a limited number of pregnancies in vaccinated women do not indicate any 
adverse effects of Twinrix Adult on pregnancy or on the health of the fetus/newborn child. While it is 
not expected that recombinant hepatitis B virus surface antigen would have adverse effects on 
pregnancies or the fetus it is recommended that vaccination should be delayed until after delivery 
unless there is an urgent need to protect the mother against hepatitis B infection. 
Breast-feeding  
It is unknown whether Twinrix Adult is excreted in human breast milk. The excretion of Twinrix 
Adult in milk has not been studied in animals. A decision on whether to continue/discontinue breast-
feeding or to continue/discontinue therapy with Twinrix Adult should be made taking into account the 
benefit of breast-feeding to the child and the benefit of Twinrix Adult therapy to the woman. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Twinrix Adult has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety profile presented below is based on a pooled analysis of events per dose from more than 
6,000 subjects who received either the standard 0, 1, 6 month schedule (n=5,683) or the accelerated 0, 
7, 21 days schedule (n=320). The most commonly reported adverse reactions following Twinrix Adult 
administration with the standard 0, 1, 6 month schedule are pain and redness occurring in a per dose 
frequency of 37.6% and 17.0% respectively. 
In the two clinical trials in which Twinrix Adult was administered at 0, 7, 21 days, overall solicited 
general and local symptoms were reported with the same categories of frequency as defined below. 
After a fourth dose given at month 12, the incidence of systemic and local adverse reactions was 
comparable to that seen after vaccination at 0, 7, 21 days. 
In comparative studies, it was noted that the frequency of solicited adverse events following the 
administration of Twinrix Adult is not different from the frequency of solicited adverse events 
following the administration of the monovalent vaccines. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Frequencies are reported as: 
Very common:  ≥ 1/10 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Very rare: 
≥ 1/100 to < 1/10 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000 
< 1/10,000 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Clinical trials 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Frequency 
Adverse reactions 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Lymphadenopathy 
Decreased appetite 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Rare 
Very common  Headache 
Dizziness 
Uncommon 
Hypoaesthesia, paraesthesia 
Rare 
Hypotension 
Rare 
Gastrointestinal symptoms, diarrhoea, 
Common 
nausea 
Vomiting, abdominal pain* 
Rash, pruritus 
Urticaria 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very common  Pain and redness at the injection site, 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
fatigue 
Swelling at the injection site, injection 
site reactions (such as haematoma, 
pruritus and bruising), malaise 
Fever (≥ 37.5°C) 
Influenza like illness, chills 
Post-marketing surveillance 
The following adverse reactions have been reported with either Twinrix or with GlaxoSmithKline 
monovalent hepatitis A or B vaccines: 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Meningitis 
Thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura 
Anaphylaxis, allergic reactions including anaphylactoid 
reactions and mimicking serum sickness 
Encephalitis, encephalopathy, neuritis, neuropathy, 
paralysis, convulsions 
Vasculitis 
Angioneurotic oedema, lichen planus, erythema 
multiforme 
Arthritis, muscular weakness 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Following widespread use of the monovalent hepatitis A and/or hepatitis B vaccines, the following 
undesirable events have additionally been reported in temporal association with vaccination:   
Nervous system disorders 
Immediate injection site pain 
Multiple sclerosis, myelitis, facial palsy, polyneuritis 
such as Guillain-Barré syndrome (with ascending 
paralysis), optic neuritis 
Stinging and burning sensation 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Abnormal liver function tests 
* refers to adverse reactions observed in clinical trials performed with the paediatric formulation 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
6 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose  
Cases of overdose have been reported during post-marketing surveillance. Adverse events reported 
following overdosage were similar to those reported with normal vaccine administration. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmaco therapeutic group: Hepatitis vaccines, ATC code: J07BC20. 
Twinrix Adult is a combined vaccine formulated by pooling bulk preparations of the purified, 
inactivated hepatitis A (HA) virus and purified hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), separately 
adsorbed onto aluminium hydroxide and aluminium phosphate. The HA virus is propagated in MRC5 
human diploid cells. HBsAg is produced by culture, in a selective medium, of genetically engineered 
yeast cells. 
Twinrix Adult confers immunity against HAV and HBV infection by inducing specific anti-HAV and 
anti-HBs antibodies. 
Protection against hepatitis A and hepatitis B develops within 2-4 weeks. In the clinical studies, 
specific humoral antibodies against hepatitis A were observed in approximately 94% of the adults one 
month after the first dose and in 100% one month after the third dose (i.e. month 7). Specific humoral 
antibodies against hepatitis B were observed in 70% of the adults after the first dose and 
approximately 99% after the third dose. 
The 0, 7 and 21 day primary schedule plus a fourth dose at month 12 is for use in exceptional 
circumstances in adults. In a clinical trial where Twinrix Adult was administered according to this 
schedule, 82% and 85% of vaccinees had seroprotective levels of anti-HBV antibodies at 1 and 5 
weeks respectively following the third dose (i.e. at months 1 and 2 after the initial dose). The 
seroprotection rate against hepatitis B increased to 95.1% by three months after the first dose. 
Seropositivity rates for anti-HAV antibodies were 100%, 99.5% and 100% at months 1, 2 and 3 after 
the initial dose. One month after the fourth dose, all vaccinees demonstrated seroprotective levels of 
anti-HBs antibodies and were seropositive for anti-HAV antibodies. 
In a clinical study conducted in subjects over 40 years of age, the seropositivity rate for anti-HAV 
antibodies and seroprotection rate against hepatitis B of Twinrix Adult following a 0, 1, 6 months 
schedule were compared with the seropositivity and seroprotection rates of monovalent hepatitis A 
and B vaccines when administered in opposite arms. 
The seroprotection rate against hepatitis B after the administration of Twinrix Adult was 92% and 
56% at 7 and 48 months respectively, versus 80% and 43% after the GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals 
monovalent 20µg hepatitis B vaccine, and 71% and 31% after another licensed monovalent 10µg 
hepatitis B vaccine. Anti-HBs antibody concentrations decreased as age and body mass index 
increased; they were also lower in male than in female subjects. 
The seropositivity rate for anti-HAV antibodies after Twinrix Adult was 97% at both 7 and 48 months 
versus 99% and 93% after the GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals monovalent hepatitis A vaccine and 99% 
and 97% after another licensed monovalent hepatitis A vaccine. 
Subjects received an additional dose of the same vaccine(s) 48 months after the first dose of the 
primary vaccination course. One month after this dose, 95% of the subjects vaccinated with Twinrix 
Adult achieved seroprotective levels of anti-HBV antibodies (≥ 10 mIU/ml). 
In two long-term clinical studies conducted in adults aged 17 years to 43 years, respectively 18 and 25 
subjects had evaluable tests 20 years after the primary vaccination with Twinrix Adult; the anti-HAV 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
seropositivity rates were 100% and 96% respectively and the anti-HBs seroprotection rates were 94% 
and 92%, respectively.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Evaluation of pharmacokinetic properties is not required for vaccines. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on general safety studies. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1  List of excipients  
Sodium chloride 
Water for injections 
For adjuvants, see section 2. 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life  
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package, in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
1 ml of suspension in a pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a plunger stopper (butyl rubber) and with 
a rubber tip cap.  
The tip cap and rubber plunger stopper of the pre-filled syringe are made with synthetic rubber. 
Pack sizes of 1, 10 and 25, with or without needles. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Upon storage, a fine white deposit with a clear colourless layer above may be observed.  
The vaccine should be re-suspended before use. When re-suspended, the vaccine will have a uniform 
hazy white appearance. 
Re-suspension of the vaccine to obtain a uniform hazy white suspension 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The vaccine should be re-suspended following the steps below. 
1.  Hold the syringe upright in a closed hand. 
2.  Shake the syringe by tipping it upside down and back again. 
3.  Repeat this action vigorously for at least 15 seconds. 
4.  Inspect the vaccine again: 
a. If the vaccine appears as a uniform hazy white suspension, it is ready to use – the 
appearance should not be clear. 
b. If the vaccine still does not appear as a uniform hazy white suspension - tip upside 
down and back again for at least another 15 seconds - then inspect again. 
The vaccine should be inspected visually for any foreign particulate matter and/or abnormal physical 
appearance prior to administration. In the event of either being observed, do not administer the 
vaccine. 
Instructions for the pre-filled syringe after re-suspension 
Luer Lock Adaptor 
Plunger 
Barrel 
Cap 
Needle hub 
Hold the syringe by the barrel, not by the 
plunger. 
Unscrew the syringe cap by twisting it 
anticlockwise. 
To attach the needle, connect the hub to the Luer 
Lock Adaptor and rotate a quarter turn 
clockwise until you feel it lock. 
Do not pull the syringe plunger out of the barrel. 
If it happens, do not administer the vaccine. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals s.a. 
rue de l'Institut 89 
B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium 
8. 
 MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/96/020/001 
EU/1/96/020/002 
EU/1/96/020/003 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/96/020/007 
EU/1/96/020/008 
EU/1/96/020/009 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 20 September 1996 
Date of latest renewal: 28 August 2006 
10.  Date of Revision of the Text  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II  
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCES 
AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF 
THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCES AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substances  
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals s.a. 
Parc de la Noire Epine  
Avenue Fleming 20  
1300 Wavre 
Belgium 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release  
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals s.a. 
Rue de l’Institut 89,  
1330 Rixensart 
Belgium  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
• 
Official batch release 
In accordance with Article 114 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken 
by a state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
Not applicable. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
1 PRE-FILLED SYRINGE WITHOUT NEEDLE 
10 PRE-FILLED SYRINGES WITHOUT NEEDLE 
25 PRE-FILLED SYRINGES WITHOUT NEEDLE 
1 PRE-FILLED SYRINGE WITH 1 NEEDLE 
10 PRE-FILLED SYRINGES WITH 10 NEEDLES 
25 PRE-FILLED SYRINGES WITH 25 NEEDLES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Twinrix Adult – Suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Hepatitis A (inactivated) and hepatitis B (rDNA) (HAB) vaccine (adsorbed) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 dose (1 ml): 
Hepatitis A virus (inactivated)1,2 
Hepatitis B surface antigen3,4 
720 ELISA Units 
20 micrograms 
1Produced on human diploid (MRC-5) cells 
2Adsorbed on aluminium hydroxide, hydrated 
3Produced in yeast cells (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) by recombinant DNA technology 
4Adsorbed on aluminium phosphate 
0.05 milligrams Al3+ 
0.4 milligrams Al3+ 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Sodium chloride 
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe 
1 pre-filled syringe 
1 dose (1 ml) 
10 pre-filled syringes 
10 x 1 dose (1 ml) 
25 pre-filled syringes 
25 x 1 dose (1 ml) 
1 pre-filled syringe + 1 needle 
1 dose (1 ml) 
10 pre-filled syringes + 10 needles 
10 x 1 dose (1 ml) 
25 pre-filled syringes + 25 needles 
25 x 1 dose (1 ml) 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Intramuscular use 
Shake before use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: MM/YYYY 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator 
Do not freeze 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals s.a. 
Rue de l’Institut 89 
B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/96/020/001 - pack of 1 without needle 
EU/1/96/020/002 - pack of 10 without needle 
EU/1/96/020/003 - pack of 25 without needle 
EU/1/96/020/007 - pack of 1 with 1 needle 
EU/1/96/020/008 - pack of 10 with 10 needles 
EU/1/96/020/009 - pack of 25 with 25 needles 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Twinrix Adult, suspension for injection 
HAB vaccine 
I.M. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot:  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1 dose (1 ml) 
6. 
OTHER 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Twinrix Adult, Suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Hepatitis A (inactivated) and hepatitis B (rDNA) (HAB) vaccine (adsorbed) 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start receiving this vaccine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet.  You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or your pharmacist. 
This vaccine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Twinrix Adult is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you receive Twinrix Adult 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Twinrix Adult is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Twinrix Adult 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.    What Twinrix Adult is and what it is used for   
Twinrix Adult is a vaccine used in adults and adolescents 16 years of age and above to prevent two 
diseases: hepatitis A and hepatitis B. The vaccine works by causing the body to produce its own 
protection (antibodies) against these diseases. 
•  Hepatitis A: Hepatitis A is an infectious disease, which can affect the liver.  This disease is caused 
by the hepatitis A virus.  The hepatitis A virus can be passed from person to person in food and 
drink, or by swimming in water contaminated by sewage.  Symptoms of hepatitis A begin 3 to 6 
weeks after coming into contact with the virus.  These consist of nausea (feeling sick), fever and 
aches and pains.  After a few days the whites of eyes and skin may become yellowish (jaundice).  
The severity and type of symptoms can vary.  Young children may not develop jaundice.  Most 
people recover completely but the illness is usually severe enough to keep people ill for about a 
month. 
•  Hepatitis B: Hepatitis B is caused by the hepatitis B virus.  It causes the liver to become swollen 
(inflamed).  The virus is found in body fluids such as blood, semen, vaginal secretions, or saliva 
(spit) of infected people. 
Vaccination is the best way to protect against these diseases. None of the components in the vaccine 
are infectious.  
2.   What you need to know before you receive Twinrix Adult  
Twinrix Adult should not be given if 
• 
the active substances or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6).  
you are allergic to: 
- 
-  neomycin. 
Signs of an allergic reaction may include itchy skin rash, shortness of breath and swelling of the 
face or tongue. 
you have previously had an allergic reaction to any vaccine against hepatitis A and hepatitis B 
diseases. 
you have a severe infection with a high temperature (over 38°C).  A minor infection such as a 
cold should not be a problem, but talk to your doctor first. 
• 
• 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before receiving Twinrix Adult if 
• 
• 
• 
you have experienced any health problems after previous administration of a vaccine. 
you have a poor immune system due to illness or drug treatment. 
you have a bleeding problem or bruise easily. 
Fainting can occur (mostly in adolescents) following, or even before, any needle injection. Therefore 
tell the doctor or nurse if you fainted with a previous injection. 
A poor response to the vaccine, possibly without achieving protection against hepatitis A, has been 
observed in obese people. A poor response to the vaccine, possibly without achieving protection 
against hepatitis B, has also been observed in older people, men rather than women, smokers, obese 
people, and people with long standing illnesses, or people on some type of drug treatments. Your 
doctor may advise you to have a blood test after you have completed the course of vaccinations to 
check if you have made a satisfactory response. If not, your doctor will advise you on the possible 
need to have extra doses. 
Other medicines and Twinrix Adult  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think that you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, 
ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before you are given this vaccine. It is not known if Twinrix 
Adult passes into breast milk, however the vaccine is not expected to cause problems in breast-fed 
babies. 
Twinrix Adult contains neomycin and sodium 
Please tell your doctor if you have had an allergic reaction to neomycin (antibiotic). 
This vaccine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How Twinrix Adult is given   
You will receive a total of three injections over 6 months. Each injection is given on a separate visit. 
The first dose will be given on an elected date.  The remaining two doses will be given one month, and 
six months after the first dose.  
• 
• 
• 
First dose: 
Second dose: 
Third dose: 
at an elected date 
1 month later 
6 months after the first dose 
Twinrix Adult can also be given as a total of three doses over 1 month.  This schedule may be given to 
adults only needing a rapid protection (e.g. overseas travellers). The first dose will be given on an 
elected date.  The remaining 2 doses will be given 7 days and 21 days after the first dose.  A fourth 
dose is recommended at 12 months. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
First dose: 
Second dose: 
Third dose: 
Fourth dose: 
at an elected date 
7 days later 
21 days after the first dose 
12 months after the first dose 
Your doctor will advise on the possible need for extra doses, and future booster dosing. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As indicated in section 2, a poor response to the vaccine, possibly without achieving protection against 
hepatitis B, is more common in older people, men rather than women, smokers, obese people, and 
people with long standing illnesses, or people on some type of drug treatments. Your doctor may 
advise you to have a blood test after you have completed the course of vaccinations to check if you 
have made a satisfactory response. If not, your doctor will advise you on the possible need to have 
extra doses. 
If you miss a scheduled injection, talk to your doctor and arrange another visit. 
Make sure you finish the complete vaccination course of three injections.  If not, you may not be fully 
protected against the diseases. 
The doctor will give Twinrix Adult as an injection into your upper arm muscle.   
The vaccine should not be given (deep) into the skin or intramuscularly into the buttock because 
protection may be less. 
The vaccine should never be given into a vein. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this vaccine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.  
4.  
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Side effects that may occur are the following: 
Very common (These may occur in 1 in 10 doses or more of the vaccine): headache, pain and redness 
at the injection site, tiredness. 
Common (These may occur in up to 1 in 10 doses of the vaccine): diarrhoea, nausea, swelling, 
bruising or itching at the injection site, generally feeling unwell. 
Uncommon (These may occur in up to 1 in 100 doses of the vaccine): dizziness, vomiting, stomach 
pain, aching muscles, upper respiratory tract infection, fever equal to or greater than 37.5°C. 
Rare (These may occur in up to 1 in 1,000 doses of the vaccine): swollen glands in the neck armpit or 
groin (lymphadenopathy), loss of skin sensitivity to pain or touch (hypoaesthesia), feeling of pins and 
needles (paraesthesia), rash, itching, joint pain, loss of appetite, low blood pressure, flu-like symptoms 
such as high temperature, sore throat, runny nose, cough and chills. 
Very rare (These may occur in up to 1 in 10,000 doses of the vaccine):  
Side effects occurred very rarely during clinical studies or routine use of the vaccine or with individual 
hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccines include: reduction in blood platelets, which increases risk of 
bleeding or bruising (thrombocytopenia), purple or red brown spots visible through the skin 
(thrombocytopenic purpura), swelling or infection of the brain (encephalitis), degenerative disease of 
the brain (encephalopathy), inflammation of nerves (neuritis), numbness or weakness of the arms and 
legs (neuropathy), paralysis, fits or seizures, swelling of the face, mouth or throat (angioneurotic 
oedema), purple or reddish-purple bumps on the skin (lichen planus), serious skin rashes (erythema 
multiforme), hives, joint swelling, muscular weakness, infection around the brain which may give 
severe headache with stiff neck and sensitivity to light (meningitis), inflammation of some blood 
vessels (vasculitis), abnormal laboratory liver test results, multiple sclerosis, swelling of the spinal 
cord (myelitis), drooping eyelid and sagging muscles on one side of the face (facial palsy), a 
temporary inflammation of the nerves, causing pain, weakness and paralysis in the extremities and 
often progressing to the chest and face (Guillain-Barré syndrome), a disease of the nerves of the eye 
(optic neuritis), immediate injection site pain, stinging and burning feeling.  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious allergic reactions (anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions and mimicking serum sickness) may 
also occur very rarely (with up to 1 in 10,000 doses of the vaccine). 
Signs of serious allergic reactions may be rashes that may be itchy or blistering, swelling of the eyes 
and face, difficulty in breathing or swallowing, a sudden drop in blood pressure and loss of 
consciousness. Such reactions may occur before leaving the doctor’s surgery. However, if you get any 
of these symptoms you should contact a doctor urgently. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.  
5.   How to store Twinrix Adult  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton.  The expiry date refers to 
the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).  
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze.  Freezing destroys the vaccine. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information   
What Twinrix Adult contains 
- 
The active substances are:  
Hepatitis A virus (inactivated)1,2 
Hepatitis B surface antigen3,4 
720 ELISA Units 
20 micrograms 
1Produced on human diploid (MRC-5) cells 
2Adsorbed on aluminium hydroxide, hydrated 
0.05 milligrams Al3+ 
3Produced in yeast cells (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) by recombinant DNA technology 
0.4 milligrams Al3+ 
4Adsorbed on aluminium phosphate 
- 
The other ingredients in Twinrix Adult are: sodium chloride, water for injections. 
What Twinrix Adult looks like and contents of the pack 
Suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe. 
Twinrix Adult is a white, slightly milky liquid.  
Twinrix Adult is available in 1-dose pre-filled syringe with or without separate needles, pack sizes of 
1, 10 and 25. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals s.a. 
Rue de l’Institut 89 
B-1330 Rixensart 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA/NV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 10 85 52 00 
Lietuva 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel. +370 80000334 
България 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Тел.: +359 80018205 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA/NV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 10 85 52 00 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 2 22 00 11 11 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Deutschland 
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel: + 49 (0)89 360448701 
produkt.info@gsk.com 
Eesti 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +372 8002640 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Tηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
España 
GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. 
Tel: + 34 900 202 700 
es-ci@gsk.com  
France 
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline 
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 39 17 84 44 
diam@gsk.com 
Magyarország 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel.: +36 80088309 
Malta 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA  
Tel: +356 80065004 
Nederland 
GlaxoSmithKline BV 
Tel: + 31 (0)33 2081100 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 970750 
at.info@gsk.com  
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (22) 576 9000 
Portugal 
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa - Produtos 
Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 412 95 00 
FI.PT@gsk.com 
Hrvatska 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel.: +385 800787089 
România 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +40 800672524 
Ireland 
Slovenija 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Ltd 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 495 5000 
Ísland 
Vistor hf.  
Sími: +354 535 7000  
Italia 
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741 111 
Κύπρος 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Τηλ: +357 80070017 
Latvija 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +371 80205045 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information  
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +386 80688869 
Slovenská republika 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel.: +421 800500589 
Suomi/Finland 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 10 30 30 30 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +44(0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Upon storage, a fine white deposit with a clear colourless layer above may be observed.  
The vaccine should be re-suspended before use. When re-suspended, the vaccine will have a uniform 
hazy white appearance. 
Re-suspension of the vaccine to obtain a uniform hazy white suspension 
The vaccine should be re-suspended following the steps below. 
1. Hold the syringe upright in a closed hand. 
2.  Shake the syringe by tipping it upside down and back again. 
3.  Repeat this action vigorously for at least 15 seconds. 
4.  Inspect the vaccine again: 
a. If the vaccine appears as a uniform hazy white suspension, it is ready to use – the 
appearance should not be clear. 
b. If the vaccine still does not appear as a uniform hazy white suspension - tip upside 
down and back again for at least another 15 seconds - then inspect again. 
The vaccine should be inspected visually for any foreign particulate matter and/or abnormal physical 
appearance prior to administration. In the event of either being observed, do not administer the 
vaccine. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for the pre-filled syringe after re-suspension 
Luer Lock Adaptor 
Plunger 
Barrel 
Cap 
Needle hub 
Hold the syringe by the barrel, not by the 
plunger. 
Unscrew the syringe cap by twisting it 
anticlockwise. 
To attach the needle, connect the hub to the Luer 
Lock Adaptor and rotate a quarter turn 
clockwise until you feel it lock. 
Do not pull the syringe plunger out of the barrel. 
If it happens, do not administer the vaccine. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
