22 July 2010 
EMA/576613/2010  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
TWYNSTA 
International Nonproprietary Name: telmisartan / amlodipine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001224 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents  
Page 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 5 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 8 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 18 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 27 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 44 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 49 
2.8. Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation .......................... 50 
2.9. Benefit-risk balance.......................................................................................... 51 
2.10. Recommendation ........................................................................................... 52 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 2/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Boehringer  Ingelheim  International  GmbH  submitted  on  3  September  2009  an 
application  for  Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  for  TWYNSTA,  through  the 
centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  Article  3(2)(a)  and  point  of  Annex  of  Regulation  (EC)  No 
726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised  procedure  was  agreed  upon  by  the  EMA/CHMP  on  20 
November 2008. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Treatment of essential hypertension in adults. 
Replacement therapy 
Patients receiving telmisartan and amlodipine from separate tablets can instead receive tablets of 
TWYNSTA containing the same component doses. 
Add on therapy 
TWYNSTA is indicated in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on amlodipine. 
Initial therapy 
TWYNSTA  may  also  be  used  as  initial  therapy  in  patients  who  are  likely  to  need  multiple  drugs  to 
achieve their blood pressure goals. The choice of TWYNSTA as initial therapy for hypertension should 
be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks. 
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  10(b)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  – 
relating to applications for new fixed combination products. 
The application submitted is a new fixed combination medicinal product. 
1.1.1.  Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  7  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006  the  application  included  an  Agency  Decision 
P/13/09 for the following condition:  
Arterial hypertension 
on the granting of a product-specific waiver  
1.1.2.  Scientific advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 26 January 2006. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier. 
1.1.3.  Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries: USA. 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 3/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur: Harald Enzmann Co-Rapporteur: Alar Irs 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the Agency on 3 September 2009. 
The procedure started on 23 September 2009.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  11  December 
2009.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  18 
December 2009.   
•  During  the  meeting  on  18  –  21  January  2010,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions  to  be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the 
applicant on  26 January 2010. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  17  March 
2010. 
The summary report of the GMP inspection carried out at the site Cipla Ltd, Manufacturing Division, 
Plot No L-139 to L-146, Goa, India between 16 and 20 November 2009 was issued on 03 February 
2010. 
The summary report of the GCP inspection carried out at two sites in Manila,Philippines between 13 
– 18 January 2010 and in Alkmaar, The Netherlands between 1 – 5 February 2010  was issued on 
6 April 2010. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 30 April 2010. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 17-20 May 2010, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 28 June 2010. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Oustanding Issues to all CHMP members on 06 July 2010. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 19-22 July 2010, outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant 
during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
•  During the meeting on 19 – 22 July 2010, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorisation to TWYNSTA on 22 July 2010. The applicant provided the letter of undertaking on the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 21 July 2010. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 4/52
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Twynsta  is  a  fixed  combination  product  consisting  of  two  well  known  active  substances:  amlodipine 
besilate and telmisartan.  
Telmisartan  is  an  orally  active  angiotensin  II  antagonist  acting  on  the  AT1  receptor  subtype  thus 
blocking  the  effect  of  angiotensin  II  in  the  renin  angiotensin  system  (RAS)  cascade.  Telmisartan 
induces both an increase in plasma renin activity and in plasma angiotensin II concentrations.  
The  therapeutic  indication  for  telmisartan  is  for  the  treatment  of  hypertension.  and  the 
prevention of CV events  
Adverse  experiences  have  generally  been  mild  and  transient  in  nature  and  only  infrequently  require 
discontinuation of therapy. The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with telmisartan 
are headache and dizziness. The proposed therapeutic dose is 20-80 mg total daily. 
Amlodipine is an orally active long lasting dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (CCB) approved for 
the  treatment  of  hypertension,  angina,  and  in  some  countries  angiographically  documented  coronary 
artery  disease  and  is  available  in  doses  of  5  and  10  mg  and  in  some  countries  in  a  2.5  mg  dose  for 
once daily administration. 
Amlodipine administered as mono-therapy is generally well tolerated at doses up to 10 mg daily. Some 
of  the  more  common  side  effects  of  dihydropyridine  CCBs,  including  amlodipine,  based  on  their 
pharmacologic  site  of  action,  include  headache,  and  other  dose  dependent  effects  such  as  oedema, 
dizziness, flushing, and palpitations. 
It  has  been  recognized  in  the  European  Society  of  Hypertension-European  Society  of  Cardiology 
guidelines  for  the  management  of  arterial  hypertension  that  one  of  the  rational  combinations  is  the 
combination of a renin-angiotensin aldosterone system antagonist, such as an angiotensinII antagonist, 
with a CCB. 
Both AT II- antagonists and CCBs lower blood pressure by reducing peripheral resistance, but calcium 
influx  blockade  and  reduction  of  angiotensin  II  vasoconstriction  are  complimentary  mechanisms.  The 
edema induced by dihydropyridine CCBs results from the increased capillary hydrostatic pressure from 
pre-capillary vasodilatation. AT II antagonists produce postcapillary vasodilatation thereby normalizing 
transcapillary pressure and reducing oedema. 
The  objectives  of  formulation  development  were  to  generate  an  immediate  release  tablet  containing 
this two widely used active ingredients amlodipine and telmisartan. As the drug substances could not 
be combined in a common blend to obtain a stable product, therefore a bilayer approach was selected. 
The tablets were formulated in four strengths for oral administration with a combination of amlodipine 
besylate equivalent to 5 mg or 10 mg of amlodipine free base with 40 mg or 80 mg of telmisartan. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Twynsta  is  a  fixed  combination  containing  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  (as  besilate)  as  active 
substances.  four  strengths  are  proposed  containing  40  mg/  5  mg,  40  mg  /10  mg,  80  mg/  5  mg  and  
80 mg / 10 mg. They are presented as tablets. 
Apart  from  this  difference  in  strength,  the  formulations  are  identical,  the  excipients  are  colloidal 
anhydrous  silica,  brilliant  blue  FCF  (E  133),  ferric  oxide  black  (E172),  ferric  oxide  yellow  (E172), 
magnesium  stearate,  maize  starch,  meglumine,  microcrystalline  cellulose,  povidone  K25, 
pregelatinized starch, sodium hydroxide and sorbitol (E420). 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 5/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  tablets  are  supplied  in  aluminium/aluminium  blisters  (PA/Al/PVC/Al)  and    aluminium/aluminium 
perforated unit dose blisters (PA/Al/PVC/Al) 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
Telmisartan 
This active substance has been authorised as a result of an earlier centralised procedure for the same 
applicant for telmisartan tablets. 
Telmisartan is a white or yellowish solid substance. The solubility of Telmisartan is strongly pH 
dependent. It is very slightly soluble in 0.1 M HCl, practically insoluble in water, and freely soluble in 1 
M NaOH. The telmisartan molecule possesses no asymmetric center and thus does not rotate plane 
polarised light.  
Telmisartan  is  manufactured  by  chemical  synthesis,  in  four  steps.  Adequate  in-process  controls  are 
applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting 
materials  and  reagents,  have  been  presented.  The  batch  synthesis  data  for  each  manufacturing  site 
presented show a reproducible manufacturing process leading to homogeneous batches. 
Temisartan specifications includes tests for appearance, identification (IR, UV, HPLC), solubility, colour 
of  solution,  purity  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  heavy  metals,  water  content,  loss  on  drying, 
sulphated ash, assay (HClO4 titration).  
Batch  analysis  data  of  9  batches  of  active  substance  are  provided.  The  tests  and  limits  in  the 
specifications are considered appropriates for controlling the quality of this active substance. 
Stability data are presented for three production-scale batches of telmisartan, stored for 60 months 
under long-term conditions and for 6 months under accelerated ICH conditions. 
The following tests were conducted at each time point: appearance, chromatographic purity, water 
content and assay (titration). All acceptance criteria and analytical procedures were identical to those 
used for release testing of the drug substance 
The active substance remained unchanged at all time points and under all conditions tested. No trends 
have been observed for any test parameter under any conditions.  
The results justify a retest period proposed. In accordance with EU GMP guidelines1, any confirmed out 
of specification result, or significant negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
Amlodipine besilate 
Amlodipine besilate is a white or almost white powder slightly soluble in water, freely soluble in 
methanol, sparingly soluble in ethanol, slightly soluble in 2-propanol. 
Amlodipine besilate is known to exist in three polymorphic forms. The amlodipine in the drug product 
exists exclusively as the anhydrate. It could be shown that no conversion of the different hydrates 
occurs under long term storage conditions. The active substance is used as a racemic mixture (R and S 
isomers). 
Amlodipine  besilate  complies  with  the  monograph  of  the  Ph  Eur.  and  the  certificate  of  suitability  has 
been provided. 
Amlodipine besilate is tested according to specifications, limits and methods set in the respective Ph 
Eur monograph. The following parameters are additionally tested: heavy metals (Ph Eur), benzene 
sulphonic acid (potentiometric titration), isopropanol, methanol, and particle size (laser diffraction 
Stability data for production 5 batches stored at long term conditions for 60 months (3 batches) and 
36 months (2 batches) and for 3 production batches stored at accelerated conditions for 6 months are 
presented. No significant change has been observed. Based on the presented stability data the 
proposed re-test period is considered acceptable. 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 6/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
2.2.3.   Finished Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Twynsta  is  a  combination  of  two  existing  oral  antihypertensives.  The  product  was  developed  to  be 
bioequivalent to the commercial products containing the individual active substances and showing the 
same dissolution characteristics. 
A compatibility study was conducted in order to investigate whether the active substances could be 
combined in one blend. The results demonstrated that a bilayer tablet would be necessary.  
The development of the final formulation of the amlodipine layer, i.e. the telmisartan/amlodipine 
tablets has been described and justified. The proposed final formulation was used from lab scale 
batches on and has not been changed during scale up. 
Bioequivalence  was  performed  in  using  the  lowest  strength  and  highest  strength  80/10  mg  of  the 
finished  product.  Bioequivalence  studies  were  performed  between  the  fixed  combination  and  the 
corresponding  dosage  forms  of  the  monocomponents.    Equivalency  of  the  remaining  strengths  was 
demonstrated by comparative dissolution. Development of the dissolution methods and comparison of 
dissolution  profiles  are  described  sufficiently,  the  discriminatory  power  of  the  dissolution  method  has 
been proven. 
Excipients are used at unexceptional concentrations and have been show compatible with the active 
substances.   
The excipients used are colloidal anhydrous silica, brilliant blue FCF (E 133), ferric oxide black (E172), 
ferric oxide yellow (E172), magnesium stearate, maize starch, meglumine, microcrystalline cellulose, 
povidone K25, pregelatinized starch, sodium hydroxide and sorbitol. The selection and function of the 
excipients has been described. Except for the pigment blend, all excipients are compendial excipients, 
which are tested and released according to Ph Eur. 
 The container closure system consists on aluminium/aluminium blisters (PA/Al/PVC/Al). Specifications 
and certificates of analysis for the two aluminium foils are provided. IR spectrum of the primary 
packaging material is provided. The suitability of this container is justified by stability data.   
Compatibility of telmisartan / amlodipine layered tablets and the blisters have been established by 
stability testing of the drug product under long term and accelerated testing conditions. The suppliers 
have confirmed that all materials of construction that are in contact with the drug product comply with 
applicable food additive regulations. 
•  Adventitious agents 
Twynsta does not contain any substance of animal origin. 
•  Manufacture of the product 
The manufacture of the final product involves standard manufacturing processes such as blending and 
compression. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing  process  and  is  satisfactory.  The  in  process  controls  are  adequate  for  this  tablet 
preparation.  
The  batch  analysis  data  on  three  consecutive  batches  shows  that  the  tablets  can  be  manufactured 
reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this 
oral preparation. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 7/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Product specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identification  of  the 
active  substances  (HPLC,  TLC),  hardness,  water  content,  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (HPLC), 
dissolution,  assay  of  the  active  substance  (HPLC),  active  ingredient  degradation  (HPLC),  and 
microbiological quality. 
 Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch analysis data confirm satisfactory uniformity of the product at release. 
•  Stability of the product 
Three  primary  pilot  scale  batches  of  each  strength  packed  in  the  proposed  commercial  primary 
packaging were stored for up to 24 months at 25°C/60%RH and up to 6 months at 40°C/75%RH. The 
parameters  tested  during  stability  study  are  appearance,  resistance  of  crushing,  water  content, 
dissolution, active substance degradation, assay and microbiological quality. 
One  commercial  size  batch  of  each  strength  packed  in  the  proposed  primary  packaging  under  ICH 
stress  conditions  to  assess  the  influence  of  heat,  humidity,  and  light.  The  parameters  tested  were 
appearance,  water  content,  average  weight,  resistance  to  crushing,  dissolution  of  the  active 
substances, active substance degradation and assay. 
Based  on  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the  SPC 
are acceptable.  
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines2, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMEA. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substances and finished product 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Twynsta is a Fixed Dose Combination (FDC) of telmisartan and amlodipine besilate in the strengths of 
40mg/5 mg, 40 mg/10mg, 80mg/5 mg, 80mg/10mg respectively. 
The nonclinical part of the dossier consists of bibliographic data on amlodipine and data for telmisartan 
which were already part of the original Marketing Authorisation Application.  
Additional non clinical studies have been provided to supplement data for the FDC in this application as 
follows : 
• 
• 
• 
a single oral dose pharmacokinetic study in hypertensive rats,  
a protein binding study,  
and  a  13  week  toxicity  study  in  normotensive  rats  comparing  the  effects  of  both  compounds 
individually and in combination. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 8/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
The pharmacodynamics of Telmisartan and Amlodipine are both well characterised and no specific 
study is provided in this application, which is acceptable. 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Telmisartan 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  telmisartan  have  been  investigated  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  in  rodents,  guinea 
pigs,  rabbits  and  dogs.  Data  from  in  vitro  studies  support  that  Telmisartan  is  a  potent  specific 
antagonist  of  the  angiotensinII  subtype  1  (AT1)  receptor.  Telmisartan  has  no  affinity  to  the  AT2 
receptor.  
Ang  II  is  a  potent  regulator  of  renal  function  which  includes  control  of  the  transglomerular  pressure 
gradient and proximal fluid and Na+ reabsorption.  
Telmisartan induces an increase of both plasma renin activity and plasma angiotensin II concentrations. 
Telmisartan is an antihypertensive agent in various models of hypertension. The effects of telmisartan 
on  blood  pressure  in  the  species  studied  last  for  about  24  hours,  no  major  effects  on  heart  rate  are 
observed and no evidence of tachyphylaxis is observed.  
Amlodipine 
The  pharmacodynamic  actions  of  amlodipine  -  reduction  of  total  peripheral  resistance  and 
improvement  of  myocardial  ischemia,  in  animals,  which  are  of  importance  in  explaining  its  usual 
clinical  uses  in  treating  cardiovascular  diseases  -  hypertension  and  angina  -  have  been  extensively 
reviewed by several different authors.  
The  pharmacological  profile  of  amlodipine  has  been  extensively  evaluated  both  in  laboratory  species 
and  in  humans.  The  compound  is  a  potent,  long-acting  calcium  channel  blocker  which  interacts  with 
both dihydropyridine and benzothiazepine receptor sites.   
Amlodipine is an effective antihypertensive agent in laboratory models of hypertension accompanied by 
diuretic  and  natriuretic  effects  and  the  compound  does  not  appear  to  produce  tolerance  when 
administered over prolonged periods. 
Amlodipine inhibits cardiac slow action potentials with no effect on the fast sodium channel and induces 
marked dilatation of coronary and peripheral blood vessels at dosage levels which cause only minimal 
depression of either cardiac contraction or electrical conduction.  
Amlodipine  has  also  been  demonstrated  to  possess  significant  anti-ischaemic  activity  when  tested  in 
several  animal  test  species.  Newer  results  extended  the  knowledge  regarding  the  mode  of  action  of 
amlodipine.  Nitric  Oxide  production,  inhibition  of  Angiotensin  Converting  Enzyme  (ACE),  reduction  of 
ventricular  hypertrophy  as  well  as  of  vascular  remodelling,  reduction  of  O2-consumption  in  the 
myocardium,  reduction  of  vascular  inflammation  and  anti-atherosclerotic  properties  support  the  well 
known beneficial vasodilator and anti-ischemic efficacy. 
FDC  
Due  to  their  distinct  mechanism  of  action  of  the  two  classes  of  drugs,  the  FDC  of  telmisartan  and 
amlodipine is anticipated to be more effective than telmisartan monotherapy for treating hypertensive 
patients to achive the target goal of blood pressure. 
Using  equivalent,  submaximal  blood  pressure  lowering  doses  in  combination  (1mg/kg  Telmisartan  + 
5mg/kg  Amlodipine),  the  combination  dosing  resulted  in  a  profile  exhibiting  a  more  rapid  onset  of 
blood  pressure  lowering  than  observed  with  the  monotherapy  treatments,  and  a  significantly  greater 
decrease in blood pressure compared to either single treatment alone. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Telmisartan 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 9/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Telmisartan is a very lipophilic compound.  Together with its high volume of distribution it penetrates 
into tissue and cells better than other compounds in its class (ARBs).   
Telmisartan  has  demonstrated  multiple  beneficial  properties  on  cardiovascular  parameters  beyond 
blood pressure lowering.  It has shown benefits in vascular dysfunction and reducing oxidative stress 
by  the  prevention  of  Ang  II  stimulation  of  smooth  muscle  and  endothelial  cells  as  well  as  reversing 
eNOS  uncoupling.    In  addition,  telmisartan  inhibits  ROS  generation  and  decreases  mitochondrial  and 
xanthine oxidase derived ROS.   
Telmisartan also has strong anti-atherosclerotic effects.  In various animal models it has been shown 
to significantly decrease lesion size and plaque burden as well as influence plaque composition towards 
a more stable plaque phenotype with less necrotic lipid core and thicker fibrous cap. 
Based  on  these  mechanistic  considerations  preclinical  studies  have  been  initiated  to  analyze  the 
potential  synergistic  and/or  additive  effects  of  the  combination  of  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  in 
preclinical models. Particularly, effects in vascular dysfunction (ROS, eNOS) models of atherosclerosis 
and models of diabetes and diabetes-related diseases (diabetic nephropathy) have been implemented 
for these studies.  
Amlodipine 
Amlodipine  has  strong  lipophilic  properties.  It  not  only  easily  penetrates  the  plasma  membrane  to 
interact with the L-type calcium channel, but also has additional biologic activity, independent of the L-
type calcium channel.  
 Amlodipine has effects on cell types other than vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC), specifically also 
on  cells  in  which  L-type  calcium  channels  are  non-existent  or  play  only  minor  roles.    For  example 
amlodipine  has  been  shown  to  beneficially  affect  both  nitrite  release  and  the  nitric  oxide  (NO)-
dependent regulation of cardiac oxygen consumption.  
Amlodipine had no effect on oxygen consumption in the heart from B2-kinin receptor–knockout mice, 
which links amlodipine directly to bradykinin-mediated eNOS activation.  
In  addition,  amlodipine  has  been  shown  to  inhibit  NADPH  oxidase  in  neutrophils  as  well  as  in 
endothelial cells.  
Amlodipine  has  also  demonstrated  potent  inhibition  of  VSMC  proliferation  and  migration.  Similarly, 
experiments  with  rat  aortic  VSMCs  suggested  that  in  contrast  to  nifedipine,  amlodipine  elicited 
inhibition of serum-, thrombin-, and basic fibroblast growth factor–triggered VSMC proliferation.   
Taken  together,  these  data  suggest  that  amlodipine could  positively influence  vascular  dysfunction  of 
various  origins  by  the  reduction  of  reactive  oxygen  species  (ROS).  Its  additional  effect  on  VSMC 
proliferation and migration might be of specific value in atherosclerosis. 
FDC 
Two well-known compounds are proposed in combination. 
Currently  ongoing  experimental  studies  are  aimed  to  investigate  the  potential  additive  or  synergistic 
effects due to compound specific properties that have been described for telmisartan and amlodipine in 
the preclinical/clinical literature on top of their blood pressure lowering effect.  
During  the  assessment,  it  was  agreed  that  the  results  of  these  studies  would  be  submitted  in  the 
second half of 2010 or in 2011 as a follow up measure. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Nonclinical  studies  investigating  the  effects  of  Telmisartan  or  Amlodipine  alone  on  cardiovascular 
function,  respiratory  function,  CNS  testing,  gastrointestinal  effects  and  renal  function  have  been 
reviewed.  
The  combination  of  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  is  not  expected  to  display  concerns  in  safety 
pharmacology studies, therefore nonclinical safety pharmacology studies with the combination are not 
needed. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 10/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
• 
Pharmacokinetic studies 
The pharmacokinetics of Telmisartan and Amlodipine are both well characterised. Additionally, a single 
oral dose pharmacokinetic study in SHR and SD rats and a protein binding study have been performed 
comparing the effects of both compounds individually and in combination. 
3.3.3.1 Summary of literature data  
All preclinical studies combining telmisartan and amlodipine were performed with free combinations of 
both  drugs,  and  the  plasma  concentrations  of  both  drugs  were  analysed  separately.  Therefore,  an 
analytical method for the FDC in animal matrix was not developed. Original data on validated analytical 
methods for amlodipine in animal matrix are not available. However, measurement of amlodipine and 
telmisartan concentrations in rat plasma have been performed according to validated methods. 
The pharmacokinetics of the FDC has not been specifically investigated in animal studies but has been 
characterised and compared to single drug treatment in a 13-week toxicity study in rats. No further 
non clinical investigations are requested. A brief summary of the properties of individual components is 
provided 
Absorption  
Telmisartan 
Telmisartan  is  rapidly  absorbed  after  oral  administration  in  all  species,  and  the  bioavailability  is  56-
75% in mice, 66% in rats and 14-22% in dogs.  
Amlodipine 
Amlodipine  was  well  and  completely  absorbed  following  oral  administration  to  each  of  mouse,  rat, 
rabbit,  dog  and  man.  The  oral  bioavailability  of  unchanged  amlodipine  ranged  from  about  30%  in 
rabbits to approximately 100% in rats with the value for humans being about 64%. 
Distribution 
Telmisartan 
In vitro binding to plasma proteins is high (about 99.6% in mice, rats and humans and 98.7% in dogs).  
Tissue distribution studies showed that telmisartan-related radioactivity is mainly located in the liver, 
and only small amounts were detected in the CNS. In pregnant rats, telmisartan crossed the placenta 
and was excreted into breast milk of lactating rats. 
Amlodipine 
As for other dihydropyridine-derived calcium channel blockers, amlodipine was highly bound to plasma 
protein  with  values  of  94%,  97%  and  97%  for  rat,  dog  and  man,  respectively.  Tissue  distribution 
studies  were  performed  in  rats,  rabbits  and  dogs.  In  each  species  the  volume  of  distribution  for 
unchanged  amlodipine  was  large  and  only  low  levels  of  the  drug  were  detected  in  blood,  brain  and 
amniotic fluid. Highest concentrations of the drug were found in liver, lung, kidneys and adrenal glands. 
Metabolism 
Telmisartan 
The metabolism of telmisartan is similar in all species (mice, rats, dogs, humans) and consisted mainly 
in  glucuronidation  to  a  1-O-acylglucuronide  without  antagonist  activity.  Telmisartan  circulates 
preferentially as parent compound in the plasma of most species. 
Amlodipine 
Amlodipine is extensively metabolised in all species tested although small amounts of unchanged drug 
(up to about 5% of the dose) are found in urine. 
Amlodipine is extensively metabolized in all animal species investigated. The primary and predominant 
metabolic  step  is  the  oxidation  of  the  dihydropyridine  (DHP)  moiety  to  the  pyridine  catalyzed  by 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 11/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cytochrome  P450  (CYP3A4  isoenzyme),  which  also  terminates  the  pharmacological  activity  of 
amlodipine.  
In  man,  following  oxidation  to  its  pyridine  derivative,  subsequent  metabolism  involves  both  of  the 
routes  observed  in  the  rat  and  dog.  None  of  the  metabolites  identified  and  then  synthesized  were 
found to have significant calcium antagonist activity relative to amlodipine.  
Excretion 
Telmisartan 
The major route of elimination of telmisartan is via biliary elimination of the 1-O-acylglucuronide. 
Amlodipine 
About half of drug-related radioactivity was recovered in faeces, with the remainder recovered in urine. 
3.3.3.2 Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Single oral dose pharmacokinetic study in rats  
In  spontaneously  hypertensive  rats  (SHR)  and  Sprague  Dawley  (SD)  rats,  the  pharmacodynamic 
effects  of  1 mg/kg  telmisartan,  5 mg/kg  amlodipine  and  both  drugs  in  combination  were  compared. 
Additionally, the respective plasma concentration-time profiles were measured and pharmacokinetically 
evaluated  in  separate  animals  of  both  strains.  Telmisartan  exposure  in  SHR  and  SD  rats  were 
unaffected by amlodipine co-medication. Similarly, amlodipine exposure in SD rats was unaffected by 
telmisartan. In SHR, amlodipine exposure was higher when given in combination with telmisartan, but 
due to the small sample size, the associated variability, and the absence of similar observations in the 
control (SD) animals, this observation in SHR was considered incidental and not an unequivocal effect 
of co-medication. 
Due to the high extent of plasma protein binding of telmisartan and amlodipine, the pharmacokinetics 
of  both  drugs  could  potentially  be  affected  by  mutual  interaction  or  interaction  with  other  drugs  in 
terms  of  displacement  from  plasma  protein  binding.  However,  as  the  volume  of  distribution  was  high 
for  both  telmisartan  and  amlodipine,  a  relevant  drug-drug  interaction  based  on  plasma  protein 
displacement  was  considered  unlikely,  and  no  mutual  displacement  from  plasma  protein  binding  was 
observed in an in vitro study investigating interaction of telmisartan and amlodipine in human plasma, 
probably due to their moderate and large volume of distribution, respectively.  
Protein binding study 
As  multiple  UGTs  participate  in  the  glucuronidation  of  telmisartan,  it  is  considered  unlikely  that 
amlodipine, which is not known as an inhibitor of UGTs, will cause changes of the metabolic clearance 
of  telmisartan.  Similarly,  it  is  considered  unlikely  that  amlodipine,  as  a  cationic  compound  at 
physiological  pH,  would  interact  with  these  anion  uptake  carriers.  Similarly,  the  extensive  oxidative 
metabolism  of  amlodipine  catalysed  by  the  3A4  isoform  of  cytochrome  P450  would  not  interact  with 
telmisartan  which  inhibits  the  CYP3A4  catalysed  nifedipine  oxidation  even  at  a  telmisartan 
concentration of 10 µM (more than 7-fold above the average C(max) value) to less than 10%. 
Due to the high extent of plasma protein binding of telmisartan and amlodipine, the pharmacokinetics 
of  both  drugs  could  potentially  be  affected  by  mutual  interaction  or  interaction  with  other  drugs  in 
terms  of  displacement  from  plasma  protein  binding.  However,  as  the  volume  of  distribution  was  high 
for  both  telmisartan  and  amlodipine,  a  relevant  drug-drug  interaction  based  on  plasma  protein 
displacement  was  considered  unlikely,  and  no  mutual  displacement  from  plasma  protein  binding  was 
observed in an in vitro study investigating interaction of telmisartan and amlodipine in human plasma, 
probably due to their moderate and large volume of distribution, respectively. 
As  multiple  uridine  diphosphate  glucuronyl  transferase  (UGTs)  participate  in  the  glucuronidation  of 
telmisartan, it is considered unlikely that amlodipine, which is not known as an inhibitor of UGTs, will 
cause  changes  of  the  metabolic  clearance  of  telmisartan.  Similarly,  it  is  considered  unlikely  that 
amlodipine,  as  a  cationic  compound  at  physiological  pH,  would  interact  with  these  anion  uptake 
carriers. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 12/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion,  telmisartan  does  not  inhibit  CYP450  activities  to  any  significant  extent  and  is  mainly 
eliminated  by  biliary  excretion  of  glucuronide,  whereas  amlodipine  is  cleared  metabolically.  Thus,  the 
pharmacokinetic  drug  interaction  potential  between  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  is  considered  low. 
Relevant pharmacokinetic interactions of T/A may occur only with strong inhibitors of CYP3A enzymes 
given concomitantly. No specific study was conducted. 
Overall conclusions on pharmacokinetics 
Telmisartan 
Telmisartan is rapidly absorbed after oral administration in all species, and bioavailability is 6-75% in 
mice,  66%  in  rats  and  14-22%  in  dogs.  In  vitro  binding  to  plasma  proteins  is  high  (about  99.6%  in 
mice, rats and humans and 98.7% in dogs).  
The  volume  of  distribution  of  telmisartan  is  3-5-fold  higher  when  compared  to  total  body  water, 
indicating  a  preferential  distribution  of  telmisartan  into  the  tissue.  Half-life  of  elimination  of 
telmisartan  from  plasma  after  oral  administration  is  between  4  and  20  hours  in  all  species.  Tissue 
distribution  studies  showed  that  telmisartan-related  radioactivity  is  mainly  located  in  the  liver,  and 
only small amounts were detected in the CNS. In pregnant rats, telmisartan crossed the placenta and 
was excreted into breast milk of lactating rats.  
The  metabolism  of  telmisartan  is  similar  in  all  species  (mice,  rats,  dogs  and  humans)  and  consisted 
mainly  in  glucuronidation  to  a  1-O-acylglucuronide.  (inactive  metabolite).  The  major  route  of 
elimination of telmisartan is via biliary elimination of the 1-O-acylglucuronide. 
Amlodipine 
The most important pharmacokinetic properties of amlopidine - late occurence of plasma peak, linear 
kinetics, prolonged terminal elimination half-life - result in a slowly developing and long lasting efficacy. 
This  may  be  important  not  only  for  providing  protection  over  a  full  24-h  period,  but  possibly  for 
reducing end-organ damage which has been linked to variability in blood pressure.  
Telmisartan  does  not  inhibit  CYP450  activities  to  any  significant  extent  and  is  mainly  eliminated  by 
the 
biliary  excretion  of  glucuronide,  whereas  amlodipine 
pharmacokinetic  drug  interaction  potential  between  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  is  considered  low. 
Relevant pharmacokinetic interactions of Telmisartan/Amlodipine may occur only with strong inhibitors 
of CYP3A enzymes given concomitantly. No specific study was conducted. 
is  cleared  metabolically.  Thus, 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
The  toxicological  properties  of  Telmisartan  and  Amlodipine  are  both  well  characterised.  Additionally, 
one  3-month  repeat  dose  toxicity  study  in  rats  has  been  performed  comparing  the  effects  of  both 
compounds  individually  and  in  combination.  Concomitant  toxicokinetic  studies  were  conducted  to 
demonstrate  adequate  exposure  of  the  toxicity  test  animals,  as  well  as  to  characterise  the 
pharmacokinetics of the two drugs in combination treatment. 
Single dose toxicity 
In accordance with the guideline CHMP/SWP/302413/08 single dose toxicity studies are not included in 
this application documentation. 
Repeat dose toxicity  
Summary of literature data  
Telmisartan 
The  effects  of  telmisartan  in  chronic  toxicity  studies  were  similar  to  those  reported  for  other  AT1 
antagonists and ACE inhibitors. The toxicologic target organs are the kidney and the gastrointestinum. 
It  is  assumed  that  the  principal  side  effects  (on  the  kidney  and  on  the  gastrointestinum)  after  oral 
administration of telmisartan are directly or indirectly linked to specific blockade of AT1 receptors. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 13/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  rat  and  rabbit  seemed  to  be  the  most  sensitive  species  towards  telmisartan-induced 
gastrointestinal  toxicity,  whereas  the  dog  seemed  to  be  less  susceptible  and  no  gastrointestinal 
adverse effects were observed in mice. Gastrointestinal damage was not due to local irritation because 
they  were  observed  after  both  oral  and  i.v.  administration  of  telmisartan.  Therefore,  ulcerogenicity 
seems  to  be  a  pharmacologically-mediated  class  effect  of  drugs  blocking  the  angiotensin  converting 
enzyme or the AT1 receptor. 
Furthermore,  telmisartan  induced  reductions  in  red  cell  parameters.  These  effects  are  well  known 
effects  of  ACE  inhibitors  and  AT1  antagonists  in  chronic  toxicity  studies,  since  the  renin  angiotensin 
system seems to be involved in the regulation of erythropoietin production in the kidneys. 
Amlodipine 
Amlodipine  has  been  tolerated  well  in  experimental  animals.  Signs  of  toxicity  are  related  to  the 
cardiovascular  efficacy  of  this  drug.  Amlodipine  did  not  show  any  evidence  of  genotoxicity  and 
carcinogenicity.  All  parts  of  the  reproductive  cycle  have  been  evaluated.  The  results  indicated  that 
amlodipine  at  dosage  levels  up  to  10  mg/kg/day  did  not  adversely  affect  fertility  in  either  male  or 
female  rats.  However,  at  10  mg/kg/day,  the  compound  did  cause  difficult  labour  which  significantly 
prolonged  the  gestation  period  and  reduced  the  mean  litter  size.  Surviving  pups  (F1  generation) 
showed  no  evidence  for  external  visceral  or  skeletal  abnormalities  and  their  reproductive  ability,  at 3 
months  of  age,  was  unimpaired.  Amlodipine  was  neither  foetotoxic  nor  teratogenic  in  standard 
teratology tests in rats and rabbits and the compound had no significant adverse effects on lactation or 
foetal development when administered to maternal rats throughout the lactation period until weaning. 
Overall, these results suggest that amlodipine is unlikely to exert significant adverse effects in human 
females if administered during pregnancy or lactation. 
FDC  
13-week toxicity study in normotensive rats 
Study Methods 
An  oral  13-week  toxicology  study  has  been  conducted  with  the  fixed  combination  of 
telmisartan and amlodipine in Sprague-Dawley Crl:CD (SD) rats.   
Dose  levels  of  the  co-medication  groups  were  3.2/0.8,  10/2.5  and  40/10  mg/kg/day 
telmisartan/amlodipine, respectively (Table 1). In additional mono-administration groups, 40 
mg/kg/day  telmisartan  or  10  mg/kg/day  amlodipine  were  administered.  Additional  animals 
given 0/0 (Control), 40/10 (High dose combination), 40/0 (High dose telmisartan mono) or 
0/10  (High  dose  amlodipine  mono)  mg/kg/day  telmisartan/amlodipine  were  used  for  a  4-
week recovery period without dosing. 
Table 1 
Study ID 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Dose/Route 
mg/kg T/A 
p.o. 
Duration 
U09-1802 
GLP 
SD-rat 
10M+10F 
0 
40/0 
0/10 
3.2/0.8 
10.0/2.5 
40/10 
13 weeks 
with 
recovery of 5/sex 
control and 5/sex 
highest dosed rats 
after 4 weeks 
NOAEL 
(mg/kg/
day) 
T/A 
3.2/0.8 
Major findings 
Consistent with 
pharmacological 
mechanisms of 
action, see below 
In  the  study,  plasma  exposure  to  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  following  mono-administration  and  co-
medication of the highest dose levels (40mg/kg and 10mg/kg, respectively) was compared on Days 1 
and 86.  
Neither  on  Day  1  nor  on  Day  86,  significant  differences  of  AUC  0-24h  of  amlodipine  were  observed 
after  co-medication  in  comparison  to  mono-administration.  On  Day  1,  AUC  0-24h  of  telmisartan  was 
slightly  lower  after  co-medication  with  amlodipine  (8.84  µg⋅h/mL)  than  after  mono-administration 
(12.8  µg⋅h/mL).  On  Day  86,  it  was  significantly  higher  after  co-medication  (80.3µg⋅h/mL)  than  after 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 14/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mono-administration  (17.1  µg⋅h/mL).  Because  on  Day  1  the  plasma  levels  of  telmisartan  after  co-
medication were lower than after mono-administration and because there was no effect on telmisartan 
plasma  concentrations  in  the  pharmacological  study,  the  high  plasma  levels  of  telmisartan  were 
considered the result of inter-animal variation and the composite design of the toxicokinetic analyses in 
the 13-week toxicology study rather than a consistent effect of co-medication.  
In  13-week  repeated  toxicity  study  (U09-1802),  combinations  were  comparable  with  the 
proposed clinical ratio  of 4:1, telmisartan/amlodipine, respectively. Data indicating that the 
the kidney and heart are the principal targets for telmisartan/amlodipine repeated treatment. 
In  rats,  telmisartan/amlodipine  co-treatment  also  resulted  with  some  clinical  chemistry 
parameters  (BUN,  APTT,  creatinine,  phosphorus,  magnesium)  and  RBC  parameters  (RBC 
counts, haemoglobin, haematocrit) changes. These changes regressed or were not apparent 
during the 4-week recovery period. 
All  changes  noted  in  treated  animals  were  well-known  class  effects  of  these  kinds  of  drug 
and  have  already  been  described  in  the  respective  preclinical  studies  with  telmisartan  and 
amlodipine  alone.  Exaggerated  pharmacological  effects  of  angiotensin  receptor  or  calcium 
channel  blockade  may  explain  these  changes.  New  toxicities  and  additive  adverse  effects 
were not observed in the 13-week toxicology study in rats.  
In conclusion, no new target organ toxicity has been identified with the combination of telmisartan and 
amlodipine. 
Exposure  to  telmisartan  and  amlodipine,  respectively  to  NOAEL  in  rat  toxicity  studies  were 
up  to  2.8  and  5.6  times  higher  than  those  at  the  highest  doses  in  human,  indicating  a 
moderate safety margin for humans.  
Exposure to telmisartan increased almost proportionally to dose, whereas that to amlodipine 
increased slightly more than proportionally to dose.  Co-administration had no impact on the 
toxicokinetics  of  amlodipine  while  an  effect  on  the  toxicokinetics  of  telmisartan  cannot  be 
excluded completely as the exposure to telmisartan seemed to be higher in the combination 
as compared to telmisartan administrated alone.  
Gender-differences were apparent for amlodipine as the exposure in females had a tendency 
to be higher than that in males. No gender-difference was observed for telmisartan.  
Genotoxicity 
In  accordance  with  the  guideline  CHMP/ICH/126642/08  genotoxicity  studies  are  not  included  in  this 
application documentation. There is no concern from studies with single components. 
Telmisartan  has  been  tested  according  to  standard  protocols  for  evaluating  the  mutagenic  and 
clastogenic potential. In summary, standard genotoxicity testing with telmisartan did not indicate any 
mutagenic or relevant clastogenic effects. 
Amlodipine did not show any evidence of genotoxicity  
Carcinogenicity 
In  accordance  with  CHMP/ICH/140/95  (ICH  S1A)  carcinogenicity  studies  are  not  included  in  this 
application  documentation.  There  is  no  concern  from  studies  with  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  single 
components where no evidence of carcinogenicity was shown. 
Because  no  direct  interactions  of  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  with  respect  to  their  target  sites,  their 
pharmacokinetics  and  their  toxicity  were  shown,  it  was  considered  adequate  not  to  conduct 
carcinogenicity  studies  in  mice  and  rats  with  the  combined  administration  of  telmisartan  and 
amlodipine. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Telmisartan 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 15/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The reprotoxicity of telmisartan has been fully evaluated.  
Angiotensin receptor antagonists are known to decrease placental perfusion and to cause renal damage 
to  the  rat  fetus  during  late  gestation  and  early  lactation.  In  the  rat,  Telmisartan-concentrations 
increased  in  the  fetal  compartment  during  late  pregnancy  from  about  27%  on  day  12  p.  c.  to  about 
60%  on  day  18  p.  c.  Moreover  Telmisartan  is  excreted  in  rat's  milk  at  concentrations  of  1.5  –  2-fold 
the maternal plasma concentration 4 -8 hours post dosing and remained detectable for more than 48 
hours.  
There is a possible association between ACE inhibitor treatment and adverse fetal outcome which may 
indicate  that  effects  on  the  renin-angiotensin-aldosterone  system  during  pregnancy  may  negatively 
influence  the  fetal  development.  Accordingly,  there  is  a  possible  association  between  AT1  receptor 
antagonists  (like  telmisartan)  and  adverse  fetal  development,  and,  therefore,  telmisartan  -  like  other 
AT1  receptor  antagonists  -  should  be  avoided  especially  in  the  second  and  third  trimesters  of 
pregnancy.  
Several  case  reports  describe  oligohydramnios,  fetal  growth  retardation,  pulmonary  hypoplasia,  limb 
contractures,  calvarial  hypoplasia  and  neonatal  death  in  association  with  maternal  losartan, 
candesartan, valsartan or telmisartan treatment during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy. 
Surviving  infants  may  exhibit  renal  damage.  The  fetal  abnormalities  are  probably  related  to  extreme 
sensitivity  of  the  fetus  to  the  hypotensive  effect  of  these  drugs,  and  both  ACE  inhibition  and  AT1 
receptor blockade seem to disrupt fetal vascular perfusion and renal function. Oligohydramnios seems 
to result from decreased foetal renal function (reviews in Alwan et al. 2005, Bois et al. 2005). 
Chung et al. (The Lancet 2001, 357: 1620) believe that AT1 receptor antagonists should never be used 
during  pregnancy  or  in  women  who  are  likely  to  become  pregnant,  particularly  since  AT1  receptor 
antagonists may lead to activation of the angiotensin II AT2 receptor, which is thought to be involved 
in vascular development and growth. In early embryos, AT2 receptors are involved in multiple aspects 
of  the  morphogenesis  of  the  kidney  and  urinary  tract  (Miyazaki  and  Ichikawa  2001,  Comparative 
Biochemistry and Physiology 128: 89-97). 
Cooper  et  al.  (N  Engl  J  Med  2006,  354:  2443-2451)  studied  a  cohort  of  29,507  infants  enrolled  in 
Tennessee Medicaid and found that infants with only first-trimester exposure to ACE inhibitors had an 
increased  risk  of  major  congenital  malformations  of  the  cardiovascular  system  and  of  the  central 
nervous  system,  and  the authors  concluded  that  exposure  to  ACE  inhibitors  during  the  first  trimester 
cannot  be  considered  safe  and  should  be  avoided  (Editorial  by  Friedman,  N  Engl  J  Med  2006,  354: 
2498-2500). 
Following  a  review  of  the  data,  the  PHvWP/CHMP  concluded  that  a  contraindication  during  the  first 
trimester of pregnancy is not justified and that no data exist to support the contraindication for use of 
ACE  inhibitors  or  AT1  receptor  antagonists  in  breast-feeding  recommending  therefore,  A  wording 
concerning lactation to be included in Section 4.6 of the SPC for AIIRAs and in PLs.  
Therefore, the wording concerning pregnancy and lactation in the SPC (sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.6) and 
in the PIL is adopted to the actual wording recommended by the PhVWP/CHMP. The issue of usage of 
antihypertensive drugs during pregnancy and breastfeeding is still under discussion at PhVWP and final 
outcome still pending. 
Amlodipine 
Fertility and peri- and postnatal studies (Segments I and III)  
All  parts  of  the  reproductive  cycle  have  been  evaluated.  The  results  indicated  that  amlodipine  at 
dosage  levels  up  to  10  mg/kg/day  did  not  adversely  affect  fertility  in  either  male  or  female  rats. 
However, at 10 mg/kg/day, the compound did cause difficult labour which significantly prolonged the 
gestation period and reduced the mean litter size. Surviving pups (F1 generation) showed no evidence 
for  external  visceral  or  skeletal  abnormalities  and  their  reproductive  ability,  at  3  months  of  age,  was 
unimpaired. Amlodipine was neither foetotoxic nor teratogenic in standard teratology tests in rats and 
rabbits and the compound had no significant adverse effects on lactation or foetal development when 
administered  to  maternal  rats  throughout  the  lactation  period  until  weaning.  Overall,  these  results 
suggest  that  amlodipine  is  unlikely  to  exert  significant  adverse  effects  in  human  females  if 
administered during pregnancy or lactation. However, it is not known, whether amlodipine crosses the 
placenta or is excreted in milk. 
FDC  
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 16/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No studies were conducted with T/A, which is acceptable. 
Local Tolerance  
In  the  local  tolerance  studies  conducted  with  either  telmisartan  or  amlodipine,  both  compounds  were 
well  tolerated.  Because  no  direct  chemical  interactions  between  the  two  compounds  do  occur,  it  was 
considered adequate not to conduct additional local tolerance studies with the combined administration 
of telmisartan and amlodipine. 
Other toxicity studies 
The applicant has adequately elaborated on the impurity levels of Twynsta. Further qualification is not 
needed in accordance with the current guidelines ICH Q3A/B and CHMP guideline on limits of genotoxic 
impurities.  
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant provided a revised environmental risk assessment for the active ingredients telmisartan 
and  amlodipine.  Some  minor  corrective  changes  in  the  Phase  II  assessment  of  telmisartan  were 
included.  The  changes  made  for  telmisartan  have  no  influence  on  the  overall  conclusion  of  the  risk 
assessment of telmisartan. 
For  the  active  ingredient  amlodipine  besilate  a  detailed  environmental  risk  assessment  was  provided. 
Based  on  the  study  results  no  environmental  risk  for  the  aquatic  environment  can  be  expected. 
However, a study on sediment dwelling organisms is missing and is requested as a Follow Up Measure. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Two well-known compounds are proposed in combination.  
Amlodipine has been tolerated well in experimental animals. The signs toxicity observed are related to 
the  cardiovascular  efficacy  of  this  drug.  Amlodipine  did  not  show  any  evidence  of  genotoxicity  and 
carcinogenicity. All parts of the reproductive cycle have been evaluated. Overall, these results suggest 
that amlodipine is unlikely to exert significant adverse effects in human females if administered during 
pregnancy or lactation. 
Using  equivalent,  submaximal  blood  pressure  lowering  doses  in  the  spontan  hypertensive  rat  model, 
the combination (1mg/kg Telmisartan + 5mg/kg Amlodipine), dosing resulted in a profile exhibiting a 
more  rapid  onset  of  blood  pressure  lowering  than  observed  with  the  monotherapy  treatments,  and  a 
significantly greater decrease in blood pressure compared to either single treatment alone. 
The  combination  of  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  is  not  expected  to  display  concerns  in  safety 
pharmacology studies, therefore nonclinical safety pharmacology studies with the combination are not 
needed. This was acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  Applicant  has  performed  an  abridged  toxicological  evaluation  of  the  fixed  combination  of 
telmisartan and amlodipine, comprising 13-week repeat dose toxicity study in the rat. This in line with 
the  guideline  on  the  non-clinical  development  of  fixed  combinations  of  medicinal  products 
(CHMP/SWP/258498/2005).An assessment of the ecotoxicity/environmental risk was also made.  
The  principal  findings  of  13-week  rat  repeated  dose  toxicity  study  were  changes  in  some  clinical 
chemistry  parameters  (BUN,  creatinine,  phosphorus,  magnesium)  and  RBC  parameters  (RBC  counts, 
haemoglobin, haematocrit). Data indicated also that the kidney and heart were the principal targets for 
telmisartan/amlodipine repeated treatment. These changes regressed or were not apparent during the 
4-week recovery period. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 17/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  changes  noted  in  treated  animals  were  well-known  class  effects  of  these  kinds  of  drug  and  have 
already  been  described  in  the  respective  preclinical  studies  with  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  alone. 
Exaggerated pharmacological effects of angiotensin receptor or calcium channel blockade may explain 
these  changes.  New  toxicities  and  additive  adverse  effects  were  not  observed  in  the  13-week 
toxicology study in rats. 
Exposure  to  telmisartan  and  amlodipine,  respectively  to  NOAEL  in  rat  toxicity  studies  were  up  to  2.8 
and 5.6 times higher than those at the highest doses in human, indicating a moderate safety margin 
for humans.  
Co-administration  had  no  impact  on  the  toxicokinetics  of  amlodipine  while  an  effect  on  the 
toxicokinetics of telmisartan cannot be excluded completely as the exposure to telmisartan seemed to 
be higher in the combination as compared to telmisartan administrated alone. Gender-differences were 
apparent for amlodipine as the exposure in females had a tendency to be higher than that in males. No 
gender-difference was observed for telmisartan.  
No  genotoxicity,  carcinogenicity,  reproductive  toxicity,  local  tolerance  and  other  toxicity  studies  have 
been conducted which is in line with applicable guidelines.  
The impurity limits for both substances are well below the ICH qualification limits for DS and DP. 
The applicant provided a revised environmental risk assessment for the active ingredients telmisartan 
and  amlodipine.  However,  a  study  on  sediment  dwelling  organisms  is  missing  and  is  requested  as  a 
Follow Up Measure. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This  is  an  application  for  Twynsta,  a  fixed  dose  combnation  product  containing  telmisartan  and 
amlodipine  besilate  for  4  strengths  40/5  mg,  40/10  mg,  80/5  mg,  80/10  mg  tablets,  in  the  frame  of 
the centralised procedure, according to article 3(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and article 10 b of 
directive 2001/83/EC as amended.  
Article  7  of  the  Paediatric  Regulation  applies  to  this  application  since  the  medicinal  product  is  not 
authorised  in  the  community  on  26  July  2008.  The  application  includes  a  Product-Specific  Waiver 
Waiver  Decision  Number:  EMEA/26624/2009  P/13/2009  (Procedure  EMEA-000337-PIP01-08)  granted 
on the grounds that the specific medicinal product does not represent a significant therapeutic benefit 
over existing treatments for paediatric patients. 
Scientific  advice  was  given  by  the  CHMP  on  2006-01-26  concerning  quality,  preclinical  and  clinical 
development. The advice was followed in most points with the exception of the change of formulation 
in the long term follow up trial. 
Overview of clinical studies 
The objective of the clinical program was to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of the combination of 
telmisartan and amlodipine for 4 strengths in the treatment of hypertension.  
The clinical program consisted of : 
Five phase I pharmacokinetic (PK) and bioavailability (BA) studies: 
•  Two  studies  to  demonstrate  the  bioequivalence  of  the  single  components  telmisartan  40  mg  and 
amlodipine 5 mg with the respective FDC tablets. 
•  Two  drug-drug  interaction  studies  to  determine  the  effect  of  concomitant  administration  of 
amlodipine on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of telmisartan and vice versa  
• A food effect study on the fixed-dose combination, 
A  Bioequivalence  approach  was  used  to  bridge  the  clinical  data  obtained  with  a  combination  of  the 
mono components for the strengths containing 40/5 and 80/10 mg T/A to the final FDC formulation.  
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 18/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five Phase III trials studies have been performed to establish efficacy and safety: 
• An 8-week placebo-controlled, 4x4 factorial design trial to evaluate telmisartan 20, 40 and 80 mg in 
combination with amlodipine 2.5, 5 and 10 mg in patients with hypertension, (1235.1).  
•  Two  8-week  active-controlled,  double-blind,  non-responder  studies  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  and 
safety of the fixed dose combinations in patients with hypertension who tolerated but failed to respond 
adequately to treatment with amlodipine 5mg (1235.5) or amlodipine 10mg monotherapy (1235.6) 
•  Two  open-label  long-term  follow-up  trials  over  34  weeks  to  determine  the  efficacy  and  safety  of 
chronic  administration  of  the  fixed  dose  combinations  alone  or  in  combination  with  other 
antihypertensive medications in patients who did not adequately respond to treatment with amlodipine 
5mg (1235.7) or amlodipine 10mg monotherapy (1235.8). 
GCP 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Following  the  request  of  the  CHMP,  an  inspection  of  the  conduct  of  the  clinical  trial  No.  1235.5  was 
conducted at the investigator sites in Manila, Philippines and at the sponsor site in the Netherlands.  
The  report  revealed  several  major  and  critical  GCP  issues  for  the  evaluation  of  the  primary  efficacy 
endpoint  of  study  1235.5.  These  issues  were  also  relevant  for  studies  1235.1,  1235.6  and  the 
associated extension studies. 
The main issue relates to the precision with which the Blood Pressure measurements were made.  The 
impact of these deficiencies was analysed. There was no evidence of a systematic bias. The expected 
impact might be a reduction of the sensitivity to detect a difference.  
On  request  the  applicant  provided  additional  sensitivity  analyses  to  further  determine  the  possible 
impact  of  the  two  quantifiable  parameters  of  concern  (terminal  digit  bias  and  close  time  of  blood 
pressure measurements) that were indicators of lack of reliability of the data. All centres where 35% or 
more of the terminal digits were rounded to “0” were excluded as well as all data from patients where 
the  time  interval  of  measurements  was  less  than  5  minutes  of  another  patient  measurements  at  the 
same site.  
Even after exclusion of up to 34-47% of patients assuming imprecise measurements and/or recording 
in  a  worst  case  scenario  for  each  study,  there  was  still  a  statistically  significant  superiority  of  the 
combination therapy group versus the monotherapy group, supporting the original efficacy conclusion 
of the studies. Given that the study was a superiority study which achieved significance, the impact of 
these deficiencies was not thought to change the conclusions of the study.  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Introduction 
Since the pharmacokinetic properties of telmisartan and amlodipin are well known, no new studies for 
the individual substances are provided. A summary of the pharmacokinetic of single components is 
described below : 
Absorption 
Absorption  of  telmisartan  is  rapid  although  the  amount  absorbed  varies.  The  mean  absolute 
bioavailability for telmisartan is about 50 %. When telmisartan is taken with food, the reduction in the 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC0-∞) of telmisartan varies from approximately 6 
%  (40  mg  dose)  to  approximately  19  %  (160  mg  dose).  By  3  hours  after  administration,  plasma 
concentrations are similar whether telmisartan is taken fasting or with food.  
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 19/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After  oral  administration  of  therapeutic  doses,  amlodipine  is  well  absorbed  with  peak  blood  levels 
between 6-12 hours post dose. Absolute bioavailability has been estimated to be between 64 and 80%. 
Amlodipine bioavailability is not affected by food ingestion. 
Linearity/non-linearity: 
The small reduction in AUC is not expected to cause a reduction in the therapeutic efficacy. There is no 
linear  relationship  between  doses  and  plasma  levels.  Cmax  and  to  a  lesser  extent  AUC  increase 
disproportionately at doses above 40 mg. Amlodipine exhibits linear pharmacokinetics. 
Distribution 
Telmisartan  is  largely  bound  to  plasma  protein  (>99.5  %),  mainly  albumin  and  alpha-1  acid 
glycoprotein.  The  mean  steady  state  apparent  volume  of  distribution  (Vdss)  is  approximately  500  l. 
The  volume  of  distribution  of  amlodipine  is  approximately  21  l/kg.  In  vitro  studies  have  shown  that 
approximately 97.5% of circulating amlodipine is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients. 
Metabolism 
Telmisartan  is  metabolised  by  conjugation  to  the  glucuronide  of  the  parent  compound.  No 
pharmacological activity has been shown for the conjugate. 
Amlodipine is extensively (90%) metabolised by the liver to inactive metabolites. 
Elimination 
Telmisartan is characterised by biexponential decay pharmacokinetics with a terminal elimination half-
life of >20 hours. The Cmax and, to a smaller extent, the AUC, increase disproportionately with dose. 
There is no evidence of clinically relevant accumulation of telmisartan taken at the recommended dose. 
Telmisartan is nearly exclusively excreted with the faeces, mainly as unchanged compound. 
Amlodipine  elimination  from  plasma  is  biphasic,  with  a  terminal  elimination  half-life  of  approximately 
30  to  50  hours  consistent  with  once  daily  dosing.  Steady-state  plasma  levels  are  reached  after 
continuous  administration  for  7–8  days.  Ten  per  cent  of  original  amlodipine  and  60%  of  amlodipine 
metabolites are excreted in urine. 
Special Populations 
No pharmacokinetic data are available in the paediatric population. (age below 18 years). 
Gender effects: 
Differences in plasma concentrations of telmisartan were observed, with Cmax and AUC being 
approximately 3- and 2-fold higher, respectively, in females compared to males. 
Elderly patients: 
The pharmacokinetics of telmisartan do not differ in young and elderly patients. 
The time to reach peak plasma concentrations of amlodipine is similar in elderly and younger subjects. 
In elderly patients, amlodipine clearance tends to decline with resulting increases in AUC and 
elimination half-life. 
Patients with renal impairment: 
In patients with mild to moderate and severe renal impairment, doubling of plasma concentrations of 
telmisartan  was  observed.  However,  in  patients  with  renal  insufficiency  undergoing  dialysis  lower 
plasma  concentrations  were  observed.  The  elimination  half-life  is  not  changed  in  patients  with  renal 
impairment. The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly influenced by renal impairment. 
Patients with hepatic impairment: 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  showed  an  increase  in  absolute 
bioavailability of telmisartan up to nearly 100 %. The elimination half-life of telmisartan is not changed 
in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment.  Patients  with  hepatic  insufficiency  have  decreased  clearance  of 
amlodipine with resulting increase of approximately 40–60% in AUC. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 20/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bioequivalence  
The following PK studies were submitted. 
•  Two  open-label,  randomised,  two-sequence,  two-period  crossover  trials  to  demonstrate  the 
bioequivalence  of  the  single  entity  tablets  of  telmisartan  40  mg  and  amlodipine  5  mg  (1235.3)  and 
telmisartan 80 mg and amlodipine 10 mg (1235.4) with the respective FDC tablets. 
•  An  open-label,  randomised,  two-sequence,  two-period  crossover  study  to  investigate  the  effect  of 
food  intake  on  the  bioavailability  of  the  fixed-dose  combination  of  telmisartan  80  mg  and  amlodipine 
10 mg following a high fat breakfast (1235.12) 
•  Two  open-label,  randomised,  two-way  crossover  drug-drug  interaction  studies  were  performed  to 
determine the effect of concomitant administration of amlodipine on the steady-state pharmacokinetics 
of telmisartan (1235.2) and vice versa (502.126). 
In  addition,  dissolution  testing  was  conducted  to  investigate  in  vitro  equivalence  of  the  intermediate 
FDC dose strengths T40/A10 or T80/A5. 
Study 1235.3 
Methods/design 
Bioequivalence of 40 mg telmisartan/5 mg amlodipine fixed dose combination compared with its mono 
components  in  healthy  male  and  female  volunteers.  An  open-label,  randomised,  single-dose,  two-
period crossover study 
The time points and sampling periods are appropriate for both compounds. Methods were validated 
appropriately. 
Pharmacokinetic parameters: 
primary endpoints: AUC0-∞ and Cmax 
secondary endpoints : AUC0-tz:, tmax, λz, t1/2, MRTpo, CL/F, Vz/F 
Upon request of the CHMP clarification on the choice of AUC0-∞ as primary endpoint was provided by 
the MAH  for both studies 1235.3 and 1235.4. In addition,  statistical analysis of AUC0-t as required in 
the  NfG  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  Rev.1  was  provided.  The  data  for  both  AUC0-∞    and  AUC0-t  were 
consistent with the assumption of bioequivalence. 
Results 
Altogether 84 subjects (42 male, 42 female) participated in the treatment phase of the study.None of 
the subjects discontinued the study. No important protocol violations occurred. 
One  subject  after  the  individual  tablet  treatment  exhibited  unexpected  plasma  concentration-time 
profiles  for  both  telmisartan  and  amlodipine,  with  a  large  delay  in  tmax.  This  subject  had  reported 
nausea  throughout  the  dosing  period,  which  was  considered  to  be  a  likely  cause  of  the  abnormal 
pharmacokinetics.  This  data  set  was  therefore  not  used  for  descriptive  pharmacokinetic  statistics  or 
bioequivalence analysis. 
For  telmisartan,  the  plasma  samples  of  one  subject  exhibited  interference  in  the  bioanalytical  assay 
and both treatments of this subject were excluded from pharmacokinetic data analysis. 
Upon request from the CHMP, the applicant clarified the reasons for excludig the patient. Considering 
that it was an outlier and that repeat measurements did not reveal consistent results, the exclusion 
from the analysis can be accepted. 
For both telmisartan and amlodipine, geometric mean plasma concentration-time profiles were closely 
similar between the FDC and individual tablet treatments. The ratios are shown in table 12. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 21/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 
For both telmisartan and amlodipine, the 90% CIs for both AUC0-inf and Cmax were contained in the 
bioequivalence  acceptance  range  of  80-125%.  The  intrasubject  variability  of  telmisartan  Cmax  was 
high  (40.9%),  whereas  the  intrasubject  variabilities  of  telmisartan  AUC0-inf  (23.1%),  and  of 
amlodipine AUC0-inf and Cmax (8.9 and 10.4% respectively) were much lower. 
Effect of gender  
AUC0-inf  was  5%  lower  for  women  than  men  with  the  FDC,  and  1.7%  higher  for  women  with  the 
individual tablets. The female Cmax was 41% higher than for the males with the FDC and 37% for the 
individual tablets. Intersubject variability was comparable for both genders.  
AUC0-∞  was  12%  higher  for  the  women  than  the  men  with  the  FDC,  and  16%  higher  with  the 
individual  tablets.  The  corresponding  female-to-male  increases  for  Cmax  were  27  %  for  the  FDC  and 
28% for the individual tablets.  
The  study  provides  information  on  the  gender  specificity  of  PK,  however.  Cmax  of  telmisartan  was 
higher in females as compared to males and overall exposure (cmax and AUC) was higher in females 
for amlodipin. The clinical relevance is further assessed in the light of the efficacy studies. 
Study 1235.4  
Methods/design 
Bioequivalence  of  80  mg  telmisartan/10  mg  amlodipine  fixed  dose  combination  compared  with  its 
monocomponents  in  healthy  male  and  female  volunteers.  An  open-label,  randomised,  single-dose, 
two-sequence crossover study 
Pharmacokinetic parameters: 
• 
• 
primary endpoints: AUC0-∞ and Cmax 
secondary endpoints : AUC0-tz:, tmax, λz, t1/2, MRTpo, CL/F, Vz/F 
Results 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 22/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forty-four  male  40  and  female  subjects  participated  in  the  treatment  phase  of  the  study.  Three 
subjects discontinued the study due to adverse events. No important protocol violations occurred 
Eighty-two  pharmacokinetic  data  sets  were  analyzed  for  the  fixed  dose  combination  (44  male,  38 
female)  and  83  for  the  individual  tablets  (44  male,  39  female).  For  both  telmisartan  and  amlodipine, 
geometric  mean  plasma  concentration-time  profiles  were  closely  similar  between  the  FDC  and 
individual  tablet  treatments.  Table  13  and  14  summarise  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of 
telmisartan and amlodipin after administration of 80 mg and 10 mg respectively as FDC and individual 
tablets.  
For  telmisartan,  the  point  estimate  of  the  geometric  mean  ratio  (FDC/individual  tablets)  of  AUC0-inf 
was  103.3%  within  the  confidence  limits  were  98.6%.  For  Cmax,  the  geometric  mean  ratio  was 
108.2% and within the 90% confidence limits. The intrasubject coefficient of variation was higher for 
Cmax (40.3%) than for AUC0-inf (18.0%). 
For amlodipine, the point estimate of the geometric mean ratio (FDC/individual tablets) of AUC0-∞ was 
within  the  90%  confidence  limits  were  103.3%.  For  Cmax,  the  geometric  mean  ratio  was  102.9% 
within the confidence limits. 
Table 13 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 23/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14 
Effect of gender 
Overall exposure (AUC but not Cmax) of telmisartan was higher in females as compared to males. For 
amlodipine  overall  exposure  (Cmax  and  AUC)  was  higher  in  females.  The  gender  specific  differences 
were  similar  in  both  BE  studies  with  the  exception  of  study  1235.3  and  1235.4.  Taken  both  studies 
together, the data are consistent with a moderately higher exposure in females. 
Influence of food 
A food study was submitted in this application.  
Trial 1235.12 
Methods/design 
Influence of food on the bioavailability of 80 mg telmisartan/10 mg amlodipine fixed dose combination 
in healthy male and female volunteers. An open-label, randomised, single-dose, two period, crossover 
study 
Criteria for evaluation: Pharmacokinetics of telmisartan and amlodipine 
• 
• 
primary endpoints: AUC0-∞, and Cmax 
secondary endpoints : AUC0-tz, tmax, λz, t1/2, MRTpo, CL/F, Vz/F 
Statistical methods: 
Pharmacokinetic parameters of telmisartan and amlodipine were evaluated separately. Two-sided 90% 
confidence  intervals  (CIs)  for  the  intrasubject  fed-to-fasted  ratio  (as  estimated  by  the  ratio  of  the 
geometric  means)  of  each  of  AUC0-∞  and  Cmax  were  calculated.  Absence  of  food  effect  on 
bioavailability was to be concluded if the 90% CIs of the ratios were contained within the acceptance 
limits of 80-125%. 
Results 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 24/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forty  subjects  participated  in  the  treatment  phase  of  the  study.  One  subject  discontinued  the  study 
due to private reasons. No important protocol violations occurred. 
Thirty-nine  pharmacokinetic  data  sets  (20  male,  19  female)  were  evaluable  for  each  treatment.  One 
female subject was excluded from the statistical analysis of relative bioavailability because this subject 
did not finish the meal. Therefore 39 data values were available each for the fasted and the fed state. 
With food a moderate reduction in AUC was observed in both gender (male 21% and women 29%). 
The  food  effect  study  suggests  a  clinically  relevant  decrease  by  25%  of  exposure  to  telmisartan  as 
estimated by AUC0-inf and a more pronounced decrease of cmax. This food effect is more pronounced 
in females and may be of clinical relevance. These datat are consistent with previous results observed 
with telmisartan. Further discussion about the relevance of this finding and whether the intake of the 
tablet  is  to  be  restricted  to  the  fasting  state  was  provided  by  the  applicant  upon  request  from  the 
CHMP.  
In summary it can be accepted that the SPC is consistent with the SPC of the originator for Telmisartan 
in monotherapy. There is no reason to assume that the issue is different in the FDC as compared to the 
monotherapy. 
The posology proposes that TWYNSTA can be taken with or without food.  
Interactions 
TRIAL 1235.2 
Methods 
Title : Pharmacokinetics of repeated oral doses of 80 mg telmisartan (Micardis®) at steady state alone 
and in combination with repeated oral doses of amlodipine 10 mg (Norvasc®) at steady state. A two-
way crossover, open, randomised design study 
Treatment sequence A was 80 mg telmisartan, followed after a washout period of at least 15 days by 
80 mg telmisartan+10 mg amlodipine. Sequence B was 80 mg telmisartan+10 mg amlodipine, then 80 
mg  telmisartan  (20  entered,  20 treated,  20  analysed  for  primary  endpoint).  Medication  was  taken  in 
the fasted state.  
Primary  endpoint:  Comparison  of  AUC,ss,and  Cmax,ss  of  telmisartan  in  combination  with  amlodipin 
(T80+A10), with the reference treatment, telmisartan alone (T80). 
The secondary endpoints were AUCτ,ss and Cmax,ss of amlodipine, and the following pharmacokinetic 
parameters of both telmisartan and amlodipine: Cmax, tmax, AUCτ,1, Cpre,N, tmax,ss, Cmin,ss, (cid:31)z,ss, 
t1/2,ss, MRTpo,ss, CL/F,ss, Vz/F,ss, RA, AUC, RA, Cmax. 
Statistics:  Point  estimates  (geometric  means)  of  the  median  intrasubject  ratios  of  AUCτ,ss  and 
Cmax,ss and their two-sided 90% confidence intervals were calculated. 
The  design  of  the  trial  is  acceptable.  PK  of  Telmisartan  is  nonlinear  due  to  a  saturable  first-pass 
metabolism. In this case investigation of interactions at the highest applied dose should represent the 
most sensitive approach. The chosen dose was appropriate. 
Results 
Thirty-eight  healthy  caucasian  volunteers,  20  women  and  18  men,  were  entered  in  this  study  and 
began treatment with 80 mg telmisartan and 10 mg amlodipine.  
Treatment was discontinued in two subjects. No deviations from protocol are noted that can be 
considered relevant for the PK results. 
Geometric  mean  AUCτ,  ss  of  telmisartan  for  the  36  subjects  who  received  the  entire  dosage  regimen 
(18 men  and  18  women)  was  1020  ng.h/mL  when  administered  alone  and  999 ng.h/mLwith 
amlodipine. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 25/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Geometric  mean  Cmax,ss  was  272  ng/mL  for  telmisartan  alone  and  242  ng/mL    for  telmisartan  with 
amlodipine. A higher systemic exposure to telmisartan was observed in the female subjects The gender 
difference seen on Cmax,ss of telmisartan on coadministration is not considered clinically relevant. 
compared to the males. This is consistent with previously reported results. 
The  total  and  peak  systemic  exposure  achieved  for  amlodipine  was  comparable  with  previously 
published  data  and  was  therefore  adequate  to  ensure  a  valid  assessment  of  its  interaction  potential 
towards telmisartan. 
 In summary, the values for Cmax,ss and AUC(cid:31),ss are whithin the acceptance limits. Therefore, the study 
does not indicate a clinically relevant influence of amlodipin 10 mg on PK of telmisartan.  
TRIAL 502.126  
Methods 
Title : Pharnacokinetics of repeated oral doses of 10 mg amlodipine daily and of 10 mg amlodipine and 
120 mg telmisartan daily in a cross-over randomised open study in healthy subjects. 
Open,  randomised,  two  way  cross-over  trial  with  a  wash  out  period  of  13  days  between  the  two 
treatments, in 12 healthy male volunteers. The two treatments were 9 days of amlodipine 10 mg/day 
alone and 9 days of amlodipine 10 mg plus telmisartan 120 mg/day concomitantly.  
The  pharmacokinetic  evaluation  included  plasma  levels  of  telmisartan  and  amlodipine,  AUCss, 
AUCday1, Cmax, Cmax,ss, tmax, tmax,ss,  tl/2, MRTss, Cltot/f, Vz/f, RA, Ae. CLren was determined for 
amlodipine. 
Results 
Table 24  (geometric mean values except tmax, for which the median is given) 
Amlodipine  without 
telmisartan 
5.4 
17.7 
7 
parameter  units 
Cmax  
Cmax,ss 
tmax 
AUC0.24h 
AUCss 
tl/2 
Ae 
ng/ml 
ng/ml 
h 
ng⋅h/ml  90.5 
ng.h/ml  331 
h 
% 
56 
8 
amlodipine  with 
telmisartan 
5.55 
18.7 
8 
95.8 
352 
52 
9.4 
telmisartan  (with 
amlodipine) 
311 
494 
1.25 
1000 
1590 
19 
-- 
The values for Cmax,ss and AU,ss are whithin the acceptance limits. The data do not indicate a clinically 
relevant influence of telmisartan on the PK of amlodipin at the fasting state. 
Considering the knowledge of the the PK of Telmisartan and Amlodipin and the two interactions studies, 
there are no indications that there may be a clinically relevant PK interaction in healthy volunteers. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The  Pharmacodynamic  properties  of  Telmisartan  and Amlodipin  are  well known.  No  new studies  were 
submitted. The pivotal clinical studies sufficiently characterise the interaction on the main clinical and 
pharmacodynamic endpoint, blood pressure.  
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 26/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
A  Bioequivalence  approach  was  used  to  bridge  the  clinical  data  obtained  with  a  combination  of  the 
mono  components  for  the  strengths  containing  40/5  and  80/10  mg  T/A  to  the  final  FDC  formulation. 
Four FDCs strengths containing T40/A5, T40/A10, T80/A5, and T80/A10 are proposed. Only for two of 
these FDCs (T40/A5 and T80/A10) BE studies were conducted.  
In  addition,  in  vitro  dissolution  is  to  be  used  to  bridge  the  bioequivalence  studies  conducted  with 
T40/A5 and T80/A10 strengths to the other strengths (T80/A5 and T40/A10 mg). 
strengths 
intermediate 
The 
the  NfG 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98,  a  waiver  of  BE  studies  is  considered  when  the  relative  amount  of  active 
substances  to  excipients  is  the  same.  However,  considering  that  the  amlodipin  component  makes  up 
for  les  than  5%  and  the  similarity  of  the  in  vitro  dissolution,  the  transferability  of  the  bioequivalence 
data to the immediate strengths is acknowledged.  
ratios.  According 
contain  different 
relative 
to 
The  food  effect  study  suggests  a  clinically  relevant  decrease  by  25%  of  exposure  to  telmisartan  as 
estimated by AUC0-inf and a more pronounced decrease of cmax. This food effect is more pronounced 
in  females.  These  datat  are  consistent  with  previous  results  observed  with  telmisartan.  There  is  no 
reason to assume that the issue is different in the FDC as compared to the monotherapy, and the SPC 
proposal is identical to Telmisartan in monotherapy. 
The posology proposes that TWYNSTA can be taken with or without food.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
Pivotal studies 
Five Phase III trials studies have been performed to establish efficacy and safety: 
•  An  8-week  placebo-controlled,  4x4  factorial  design  trial  to  evaluate  telmisartan  20,  40  and  80  mg 
tablets  in  combination  with  amlodipine  2.5,  5  and  10  mg  capsules  in  patients  with  hypertension, 
including an ABPM sub-study (1235.1).  
•  Two  8-week  active-controlled,  double-blind,  non-responder  studies  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  and 
safety of the fixed dose combinations in patients with hypertension who tolerated but failed to respond 
adequately to treatment with amlodipine 5mg (1235.5) or amlodipine 10mg monotherapy (1235.6) 
Supportive studies 
•  Two  open-label  long-term  follow-up  trials  over  34  weeks  to  determine  the  efficacy  and  safety  of 
chronic  administration  of  the  fixed  dose  combinations  alone  or  in  combination  with  other 
antihypertensive  medications  in  patients  with  hypertension  who  did  not  adequately  respond  to 
treatment with amlodipine 5mg (1235.7) or amlodipine 10mg monotherapy (1235.8, interim report). 
2.5.1.  Dose response study(ies) 
See below (study 1235.1) 
2.5.2.  Main study(ies)    
Trial 1235.1 
This study is the key study for dose finding and is also the pivotal study for the first line indication. 
Methods 
• 
Study Participants  
Main  inclusion  criteria:  Male  and  female  patients  ≥18  years  of  age  with  Stage  I  or  II  hypertension 
defined as a mean seated cuff DBP (DBP) ≥95 and ≤119 mmHg at visit 3.  
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 27/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inclusion of both stage I and stage IIhypertension patients was planned in order to use this study as 
the pivotal study for the first line indication for patients with severe hypertension. 
• 
Treatments 
Patients  assigned  to  treatment  with  amlodipine  10  mg  were  dosed  with  amlodipine  5  mg  for  the  first 
two weeks and up-titrated to target dose for the remaining six weeks of treatment Patients randomized 
to combination therapy received one of nine treatment combinations: 
Duration of treatment: Eight weeks 
Figure 9.1.1  below summarises the study design. 
• 
Objectives 
To  demonstrate  that  for  both  active  therapies  of  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  there  exists  an  overall 
dose response, thereby showing that combinations of telmisartan and amlodipine are more effective in 
reducing DBP than each of the respective monotherapies in patients with Stage I or II hypertension. 
• 
Primary: Change from baseline in the in-clinic seated trough cuff DBP after eight weeks of treatment 
Outcomes/endpoints 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 28/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary:  Change  from  baseline  in  the  in-clinic  seated  trough  cuff  systolic  blood  pressure  (SBP); 
Percentage  of  patients  responding  to  treatment  based  on  in-clinic  mean  seated  trough  cuff  BP 
measurements; Changes from baseline in the in-clinic standing trough cuff DBP and SBP. 
ABPM  Sub-study:  Changes  from  baseline  in  DBP  and  SBP  hourly  means  over  the  24-hour  dosing 
interval  as  measured  by  ABPM;  Changes  from  baseline  in  the  24-hour  ABPM  mean  (relative  to 
dosetime) for DBP and SBP. 
The  primary  focus  on  DBP  acceptable  albeit  systolic  blood  pressure  may  clinically  more  relevant. 
However, since usually effects on systolic blood pressure are more pronounced than on DBP it can be 
expected that in case of significant changes on DBP these will translate to significant changes in SBP. 
Blinding (masking) 
• 
Telmisartan  20,  40,  and  80  mg  tablet  doses  were  provided  by  using  respective  active  or  placebo 
tablets in a double-dummy technique.  
Statistical methods 
• 
The  primary  analysis  involved  an  Analysis  of  Covariance  (ANCOVA)  including  the  main  effects  of 
treatment  with  telmisartan  and  treatment  with  amlodipine  to  show  that  treatment  with  either  active 
therapy  resulted  in  a  significant  (α=0.05)  dose  response  in  the  reduction  in  the  in-clinic  trough  cuff 
DBP after eight weeks of treatment. Baseline DBP was included as a covariate. 
All  secondary  analyses  of  the  primary  and  secondary  endpoints  were  evaluated  using  the  FAS  and 
using  α  =  0.05  (2-sided)  to  evaluate  significance  of  effects  and  treatment  comparisons.  Subgroup 
analyses were performed on the primary endpoint of change from baseline in in-clinic trough cuff DBP 
using the same statistical models as described for the primary endpoint were used.  
Responder rates were evaluated using Mantel-Haenszel test statistics. 
For the ABPM sub-study results, the hourly means over the 24-hour dosing interval for both DBP and 
SBP were summarised for each treatment. As well, in order to evaluate any possible peak effects, the 
24-hour profiles of the changes from baseline were graphically presented.  
Analysis of the changes from baseline in the 24-hour ABPM mean DBP and SBP followed that described 
for the secondary analysis of in-clinic BPs to evaluate treatment effects. 
In  addition,  following  database  lock  a  second  definition  identifying  patients  with  moderate  or  severe 
hypertension at baseline based on SBP was defined. This subgroup was defined as patients with a SBP 
≥160 mmHg at baseline. 
Results  
• 
Disposition of patients 
Two  thousand  six  hundred  seven  (2607)  patients  were  enrolled  into  this  trial  of  which  1461  were 
randomised to receive either placebo: 46 patients, Telmisartan mono (20, 40 or 80 mg): 307 patients, 
Amlodipine  mono  (2.5,  5  or  10  mg):  319  patients  or  combination  therapy:  789  patients.  A  total  of 
1344 (92.0%) patients completed the eight week trial. 
Of  1461  patients  randomised/treated  with  study  drug,  1078  were  identified  as  having  moderate  or 
severe  hypertension  (defined  as:  DBP  ≥100mmHg)  at  baseline.  Of  the  1078  patients,  997  (92.5%) 
patients completed the eight week trial and 81 (7.5%) patients were prematurely discontinued.  
Conduct of the study 
• 
321 Important Protocol Violations (IPVs) related to efficacy were identified and the most prevalent IPVs 
were  Concomitant  Medication,  Entrance  Criteria  Not  Met,  Incorrect  Timing. For  the  subset  of  patients 
with  moderate  or  severe  hypertension  at  baseline,  a  total  of  188  IPVs  related  to  efficacy  were 
identified. 
A total of 36 IPVs related to patient safety were identified of which the most prevalent were Incorrect 
Timing, Missing data. 
Baseline data 
• 
• 
Baseline characteristics of patients is presented in Table 28. 
Table 28 Patient analysis sets – overall  
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 29/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  an  equal  representation  of  both  sexes,  most  patients  were  caucasians  (79.4%),  elderly 
patients were sufficiently represented. 
The  overall  mean  age  was  53.1  years  with  14.0%  ≥65  years  old.  The  majority  of  patients  had  a 
duration  of  hypertension  >5  years  [<1  year:    14.1%,  1-5  years:  30.5%,  >5  years:  55.2%,  missing: 
0.2%]  
Among  them,  21.0%  were  not  being  previously  prescribed  antihypertensive  medication,  36.3% 
previously treated with antihypertensive monotherapy, and 42.6% previously treated with combination 
therapy of two or more antihypertensive medications.  
The  overall mean  body  mass  index  (BMI)  was  31.3  kg/m2  with  16.3%  of patients  being  diabetic  and 
0.8% with renal impairment.  
Among  the  individual  treatment  groups,  there  were  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics 
differences but none were considered to have an effect the safety or efficacy evaluations. 
The  overall  mean  seated  trough  cuff  SBP/DBP  at  baseline  was  153.2/101.7  mmHg  for  all  treated 
patients  (TS)  and  154.7/103.5  mmHg  for  treated  patients  with  moderate  or  severe  hypertension  at 
baseline (TS-MS), with no appreciable differences found among the 16 treatment groups in the mean 
in-clinic seated trough cuff DBPs at baseline for either of these two analysis sets. 
Outcomes and estimation 
• 
Primary  measure  of  efficacy: change from baseline in the in-clinic mean seated trough cuff DBP at 
the end-of-study visit.  
The data for the overall population and the patients with moderate to severe hypertension at baseline 
are summarized in table 29 and 30 below, 
Table 29 Mean (SD) observed changes from baseline in in-clinic seated trough cuff DBP (mmHg) (FAS-
TC)( Stage I or II hypertensives at baseline) 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 30/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 30 Mean (SD) observed changes from baseline in in-clinic seated trough cuff DBP (mmHg) (FAS-
TC-MS)( Moderate or severe hypertension  at baseline) 
There  is  a  flat  dose  response  relation  between  Telmisartan  40  and  80  mg  in  all  kinds  of  combination 
with  or  whithout  amlodipin.  Based  on  these  results  the  justification  of  FDCs  containing  80  mg  of 
telmisartan  could  be  questionable.  The  data  indicate  a  possible  difference  with  respect  to  stage  of 
Hypertension.  The  issue  will  be  further  adressed  in  the  filter  study  (ABPM).  Dose  response  may  be 
different  in  non-responders  to  amlodipin.  These  studies  have  to  be  taken  into  consideration  for  the 
overall assessment of dose response. 
In  the  group  of  patients  with  more  severe  hypertension  similarly  only  a  small  effect  is  observed. 
Especially  in  combination  with  amlodipin  10  mg  the  difference  between  T20  and  T80  is  less  than  1 
mmHg. 
When evaluating the changes from baseline for the FAS-TC (Final Analysis Set- Trough Cuff) there was 
a  significant  difference  among  the  four  dosage  levels  of  telmisartan  irrespective  of  amlodipine  dose 
(see table 31) 
Table 31 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 31/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When  evaluating  the  changes  from  baseline  for  patients  with  moderate  or  severe  hypertension  at 
baseline(Final  Analysis  Set-  Moderate  Severe)  (FAS-TC-MS)  there  was  a  significant  difference  among 
the four dosage levels of telmisartan (see table 32) 
Table 32 
Similar  results  were  obtained  for  those  patients  presenting  with  moderate  or  severe  hypertension  at 
baseline identified as SBP ≥160 mmHg. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 32/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion,  the  primary  analysis  showed  significant  overall  results  among  the  four  dose  levels  for 
telmisartan  and  amlodipin.  The  results  demonstrated 
individual  contribution  of  each 
monosubstance in the combination. 
the 
The effects of treatment with each of the four key treatment combinations T40+A5, T40+A10, T80+A5 
and T80+A10 on the changes from baseline in in-clinic seated trough cuff DBP were compared to the 
effects  of  the  respective  individual  monotherapies  using  the  full  ANCOVA  that  included  all  sixteen 
treatment  groups  and  involved  the  FAS-TC.  For  the  four  key  combination  therapies  statistical 
significance as compared to the respective monotherapies was demonstrated in the FAS-TC and in the 
FAS-TC-MS group. 
The  subgroup  analysis  of  the  data  did  not  indicate  a  significant  influence  of  gender,  race,  and  age. 
Albeit  numerically  the  effect  was  more  pronounced  with  telmisartan    in  females  than  in  males  the 
difference  was  not  statistically  significant.  Therefore,  the  higher  drug  exposure  seen  in  the  PK  study 
does not translate into statistically significant differences in efficacy in this study. 
Secondary endpoints : In-clinic seated trough cuff SBP 
A  significant  difference  among  the  mean  changes  of  the  four  dosage  levels  of  telmisartan  and  of  the 
four dosage levels of amlodipine was observed in the FAS-TC population and FAS-TC-MS populations.  
Significant  response  rates  was  demonstrated  for  the  four  key  combination  therapies  compared  to  the 
respective  individual  monotherapies,  with  the  exception  of  T40+A10  vs  A10  for  DBP  control  and  DBP 
response, and T80+A10 vs A10 for DBP response and SBP response. 
The  analysis  of  the  responder  rate  shows  that  in 32.7  –  51.8  %  of  patients  with  moderate  to  severe 
HTN  can  be  sufficiently  treated  with  a  monotherapy.  When  starting  a  FDC  in  a  first  line  approach  to 
this  considerably  large  group  of  patients  will  unnecessarily  receive  a  combination  therapy  albeit 
monotherapy is appropriate and sufficient. 
•  ABPM sub-study 
Approximately  50%  of  randomised  patients  had  ABPMs  performed  at  their  baseline  and  end-of-study 
visits.  
Table 35 Peak changes from baseline (mmHg) in DBP ABPM hourly means (FAS-ABPM) 
The  magnitude  of  overall  reductions  increased  with  increasing  dosage  of  both  telmisartan  and 
amlodipine. This increasing overall reduction was also found for the changes from baseline in the 24-
hour  mean  SBP.  Similar  results  were  seen  in  the  group  of  patients  with  moderate  to  severe 
hypertension. 
In summary the study is appropriate to  provide information on the dose response of the combination 
of telimsartan and amlodipine. The dose response appears to be flat when comparing doses of  40 and 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 33/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
80  mg  telmisartan  in  the  presence  or  absence  of  amlodipin.  This  seems  to  be  mainly  due  to  the 
patients with mild (stage I) HTN and may be different in a population of non responders. 
A multifactorial design as provided is the preferred type of study to establish dose response relation for 
a FDC according to the NfG CPMP/EWP/238/95 Rev. 1.  
The  study  is  an  appropriate  basis  for  an  application  for  a  substitution  indication  but  when  aiming  for 
further indications (first line, second line), this cannot be considered sufficient on its own to establish 
an indication. For a second line indication add on studies (as provided) are required. 
For a first line indication the studies should be carried out in a population that is unlikely to show BP 
control  with  monotherapy.  This  is  not  the  case  for  the  patients  investigated  with  moderae  to  severe 
HTN. The analysis of the responder rate shows that 32.7 – 51.8 % % of those patients with moderate 
to  severe  HTN  can  be  sufficiently  treated  with  a  monotherapy.  When  starting  a  FDC  in  a  first  line 
approach  32.7  –  51.8  %  %  of  the  patients  will  unnecessarily  receive  a  combination  therapy  albeit 
monotherapy is appropriate and sufficient. The study therefore strongly indicates that in this group of 
patients a second line approach is preferable to a first line treatment in order to avoid overtreatment in 
36  –  41%  of  patients.  This  was  raised  as  a  Major  Objection  during  the  procedure.  Subsequently  the 
MAH informed the CHMP in their reply to the D120 List of questions of their intention to withdraw this 
indication. 
In  addition  for  a  first  line  indication  efficacy  and  safety  in  comparison  to  an  add-on  is  the  preferred 
approach. It could be acceptable if such a study either shows a benefit with respect to efficacy on the 
grounds of acceptable safety or that with equal efficacy there is a benefit with respect to time when BP 
goals are achieved without additional safety concerns especially during the initiation of treatment. Such 
information cannot be derived from this study.  
Study 1235.5 Telmisartan plus Amlodipine Study in Amlodipine 5 mg Non-
Responders in Hypertension: TEAMSTA-5 
Methods 
This  was  a  randomised,  controlled,  double-blind,  multi-centre  study  using  a  non-responder  design  in 
patients with uncontrolled hypertension.  
Uncontrolled hypertension was defined as seated DBP ≥95 mmHg if patients were on antihypertensive 
treatment or seated DBP ≥100 mmHg if they were not treatment with antihypertensives. 
Fig. 7 Trial design 
• 
Treatments 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 34/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The investigational products were FDCs of 40 mg telmisartan + 5 mg amlodipine (T40/A5) and 80 mg 
telmisartan + 5 mg amlodipine (T80/A5) and 10 mg amlodipine. 
Objectives 
• 
The  primary  objectives  of  this  trial were  (a)  to demonstrate  that  the  FDC  T40/A5  or  the  FDC  T80/A5 
was superior over A5 in reducing BP at 8 weeks, (b) to demonstrate that the FDC T40/A5 or the FDC 
T80/A5 was not inferior vs. A10 in reducing BP at 8 weeks, and (c) to demonstrate that the incidence 
of oedema was lower for the pooled treatment groups T40/A5 and T80/A5 than for the A10 treatment 
group.  These  objectives  were  assessed  in  hypertensive  patients  who  failed  to  respond  adequately  to 
A5, i.e. who had a trough seated DBP ≥90 mmHg after a 6-week treatment with A5. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
• 
There were 2 co-primary endpoints, the change from baseline to the last visit during the double-blind 
treatment phase in trough seated DBP and the incidence of oedema during the double-blind treatment 
phase. 
Sample size 
• 
Using  an  estimate  of  6.6  mmHg,  a  sample  size  of  240  evaluable  patients  per  treatment  group  would 
have approximately 90% power to detect a 2.0 mmHg difference between treatments in the reduction 
from baseline in trough seated DBP (2-sided, alpha=0.05).  
The oedema incidence for treatment with A10 was expected to be 10.3% and 2.1% for the 
combination therapies. Using these estimates and the treatment group size of 240, the power would be 
approximately 96%. 
Statistical methods 
• 
Table 41 summarises the sequence of the 7 pre-specified tests and indicates whether the respective 
null hypothesis could be rejected. 
Table 41  Qualitative summary of primary endpoint results according to the hierarchy of testing / FAS, 
TS 
Some changes or extensions of analyses were introduced before DBL. After DBL and unblinding, post-
hoc subgroup analyses for mean trough seated DBP and SBP were added based on diabetes status at 
baseline. 
Results  
A summary of results for key efficacy endpoints is provided in table 37. 
Table 37 Summary of results for efficacy endpoints / FAS, TS 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 35/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The disposition of patients is described in table 39. 
Table 39 Disposition of patients during the double-blind phase / randomised set 
•  Conduct of the study 
Treatment compliance was above 97% at all time points evaluated. 
The proportion of patients with any important protocol violation (PV) was 14.0% which is in the 
expected range. The influence can be controlled by the comparison of the ITT with the PP analysis. 
Further to GCP inspection requested by the CHMP, several major and critical GCP issues were identified 
for the evaluation of the primary efficacy endpoint of study 1235.5. The GCP deviations are expected 
to  decrease  the  precision  of  the  measurements  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  (diastolic  blood 
pressure). Although the deviations did not introduce a systematic bias the high number of patients that 
may  have  been  concerned  clearly  questioned  the  overall  conduct  of  study  1235.5  and  it’s  ability  to 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 36/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
support  the  application.  Additional  sensitivity  analyses  were  requested  to  address  this  concern  (for 
details see section 3.4 GCP and below).  
•  Baseline data 
Demographic and baseline characteristics were reasonably comparable across the 4 treatment groups.  
•  Outcomes and estimation 
• 
Comparison of T40/A5 and of T80/A5 with A5 for trough seated : see table 42 
Table 42 Analysis of change from baseline to the end of study in trough seated DBP for T40/A5 and 
T80/A5 vs. A5 / FAS 
There  was  a  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  difference  on  sDBP  for  both  combination 
therapies as compared to A5.  
Table 43 Analysis of change from baseline to the end of study in trough seated DBP for T40/A5 and 
T80/A5 vs. A10 / FAS 
The  results  of  the  supportive  PP  analysis  were  consistent  with  those  from  the  FAS  analysis.  The 
adjusted mean changes from baseline were −5.8 (A5), −7.7 (A10), −9.2 (T40/A5), and −10.4 mmHg 
(T80/A5). 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 37/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the study indicates a dose dependency of the response in the nonresponder population. There 
was a 1.2 mmHg difference between T40/A5 and T80/A5. This is sufficient to overcome the questions 
on dose response raised by the multifactorial trial in a more general group of hypertensive patients. 
The maximal treatment effect is not achieved before week 8 in all treatment groups. The data do not 
indicate, however, that longer treatment periods were required. 
Sensitivity analyses provided upon CHMP request following GCP inspections 
At  a  number  of  centers  there  were  deviations  from  the  protocol  specified  requirements  for  the 
measurement  of  blood  pressure  that  could  reduce  the  precision  of  the  measurement  for  the  primary 
endpoint.  These  deviations  occurred  despite  the  sponsor’s  communication  of  the  requirements  for 
blood  pressure  measurement  during  investigator  meetings,  at  individual  meetings  for  investigators 
unable to attend a formal investigators meeting and during routine monitoring visits. 
It was considered that up to 34 % of blood pressure data from patients may not have been recorded 
with  the  degree  of  precision  that  was  required  in  the  protocol.  However,  the  sensitivity  analyses 
indicate that the overall results are not changed, when sites with >35% of BP measurements having 0 
as final digit and/or patients with any close in time BP measurements were excluded. The data seem to 
be robust irrespectively of the high number of patients and sites that have to be excluded (34%). The 
sensitivity analysis provides also reassurance that the possible influence of the terminal digit problem 
on inclusion of patients may not be relevant for the overall result. 
•  Subgroup analyses 
There was no statistical significant difference of the effect in females and males. However numerically 
the treatment effect was more pronounced in females. 
For patients ≥65 years, the treatment group differences of both T40/A5 and T80/A5 against A5 and 
A10 were reduced. This was mainly due to larger effects of A5 and A10 in patients ≥65 years. Similar 
results were observed for SBP. 
In the pooled T/A group, 4.3% of patients experienced new or worsening events included in the pre-
defined category ‘general oedema’, while in the A10 group, the incidence was substantially higher with 
27.2%. This resulted in an odds ratio of T/A vs. A10 of 0.12 with an accompanying CI of 0.07 to 0.19 
and a p-value of <0.0001. Similar results were observed for SBP. 
Corresponding results were seen on trough seated BP. Significant results were also seen on responder 
rates  for  DBP,  SBP  and  control  rates  for  SBP  and  DBP  as  well  as  for  the  categorial  analysis  of  BP 
response. 
In summary, the responder analyses support the clinical relevance of the additional treatment effect. 
Overall conclusion on the study  
Although the GCP deviations did not introduce a systematic bias the high number of patients that may 
have been concerned clearly questioned the overall conduct of the study 1235.5.  
Following additional sensitivity analyses conducted by the applicant, excluding of up to 34% of patients 
there was still a statistically significant superiority of the combination therapy group versus the 
monotherapy group, supporting the original efficacy conclusion of the study. 
In  conclusion,  the  design  of  the  trial  is  considered  appropriate  for  a  second  line  claim  in  non 
responders to amlodipin. 
The  study  demonstrated  that  Telmisartan/amlodipin  40/5  mg  and  80/5  mg  exerts  a  statistically 
significant  and  clinically  relevant  dose  dependent  effect  in  patients  not  adequately  responding  to 
Amlodipin  5  mg.  The  treatment  effect  more  pronounced  in  females  seems  to  be  a  consistent  finding 
across the studies and correlates to a higher drug exposure to Telmisartan in females. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 38/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  lower  incidence  of  oedema  in  T/A  group  is  not  unexpected  result  since  oedema  is  a  well  known 
dose related AE of amlodipin. This not sufficient for a safety claim as such a claim is to be based on the 
totality of AEs and not on a single AE. 
Study 1235.6 Telmisartan plus Amlodipine Study in Amlodipine 10 mg Non-
Responders in Hypertension: TEAMSTA-10 
Methods  
This  was  a  randomised,  controlled,  double-blind,  double-dummy,  multi-centre  study  using  a  non-
responder design in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Uncontrolled hypertension was defined as 
seated DBP  ≥95 mmHg if patients were on antihypertensive treatment or seated DBP ≥100 mmHg if 
they were not receiving antihypertensive medication. 
The design is appropriate to address a claim for a second line indication. 
Objectives 
• 
The primary objective of this trial was to demonstrate that the FDC T40/A10 or the FDC T80/A10 was 
superior  in  reducing  BP  at  8  weeks  compared  with  A10  monotherapy.  This  objective  was  assessed  in 
hypertensive  patients  who  failed  to  respond  adequately  to  A10,  i.e.  who  had  a  trough  seated  DBP 
(DBP) ≥90 mmHg after a 6-week treatment with A10. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
• 
The primary endpoint was the change  in trough seated DBP from baseline to the last visit during the 
double-blind treatment phase.  
Several BP related secondary endpoints were predefined. The preferred method for measuring BP was 
by traditional manual cuff sphygmomanometry. The results obtained with auscultatory or oscillometric 
semiautomatic devices may deviate if not appropriately validated. Therefore, upon request rom the 
CHMP, the applicant provided sensitivity analisys to evaluate the impact of the method used on BP 
measurement. No interaction on the use of different devices was observed. 
Sample size 
• 
Using  an  estimate  of  6.6  mmHg,  a  sample  size  of  240  evaluable  patients  per  treatment  group  would 
have approximately 90% power to detect a 2.0 mmHg difference between treatments in the reduction 
from baseline in trough seated DBP (2-sided, alpha=0.05). 
• 
Statistical methods 
The primary efficacy endpoint was trough seated DBP. The secondary efficacy endpoints were analysed 
using ANCOVA or Mantel-Haenszel statistics. 
The hypotheses were tested in the following pre-specified sequence, to address issues of multiplicity. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 39/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Firstly,  to  test  if  the  high  strength  FDC  T80/A10  was  superior  to  the  monotherapy  A10  at  lowering 
seated trough DBP 
- The next stage was to test if the low strength FDC T40/A10 was superior to the monotherapy A10 at 
lowering seated trough DBP. 
Some changes or extensions of analyses were introduced before DBL and unblinding of the study. 
Among these were: 
- 
SBP control (defined as SBP <140 mmHg) was added as an additional secondary endpoint to 
further characterise the effect of the treatments on BP. 
-  DBP control (defined as DBP < 80 mmHg) was added as an additional secondary endpoint A 
subgroup analysis comparing patients diagnosed with diabetes as a concomitant condition 
versus those without diabetes was added to the TSAP 
The statistical analysis plan and the hierarchical testing procedure are acceptable. 
Both doses of combination treatments, T40/A10 and T80/A10 were compared with A10 for superiority. 
Results  
Table 47 Summary of results for efficacy endponts FAS/TS 
Table 49  Disposition of patients for the randomised phase 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 40/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Conduct of the study 
The number of protocol violations was 13.1%and whithin the expected range. The influence can be 
controlled by the comparison of the ITT with the PP analysis 
•  Baseline data 
Demographic baseline characteristics were reasonably comparable across the 3 treatment groups. 
•  Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint: change from baseline to the end of the study in trough seated DBP.  
Table 51 Analysis of change from baseline to the end of study in trough seated DBP for T40/A10 and 
T80/A10 vs. A10 / FAS 
The results of the supportive PPS analysis were consistent with those from the FAS analysis. 
The adjusted mean differences and CIs for both treatment comparisons of interest (T80/A10 
and  T40/A10  vs.  A10)  confirmed  the  superiority  results  seen  for  the  FAS.  Similar  results 
were obtained for SBP. 
Table 53 Analysis of change from baseline to the end of study in trough seated SBP / FAS 
The effect on systolic blood pressure was similar as the effect on DBP. There was no clinically relevant 
higher efficacy of T40/A10 as compared to T80/A10 
Table 54 Analysis of trough seated DBP and SBP control at the end of study/FAS 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 41/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Similar results were obtained for trough seated DBP and SBP response. The BP response was 
significantly better for the two combinations as compared to A10 with no difference between T40/A10 
and T80/A10.  
Incidence of oedema was similar between A10 and T40/A10 and T80/A10 ((A10: 7.0%; 
T40/A10:6.7%, T80/A10: 8.5%;). 
In  summary,  both  combinations  T80/A10  and  T40/A10  exerted  a  significant  additional  effect.  There 
were no clinically relevant differences between the two strengths T40/A10 and T80/A10 with respect to 
efficacy in the whole group. This is consistent with the results of the multifactorial study in treatment 
naive patients where T80 was not more effective than T40 when given concomitantly to Amlodipin 10 
mg. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies were conducted in special patient groups. No data are provided for the very elderly patients 
(above 70 years). 
Supportive study(ies) 
Study 1235.7 
This  is  an  open  label  follow  up  trial  (following  patients  from  1235.5)  of  the  efficacy  and  safety  of 
chronic administration of the combination of telmisartan 40 mg + amlodipine 5 mg or the combination 
of  telmisartan  80  mg  +  amlodipine  5  mg  tablets  alone  or  in  combination  with  other  antihypertensive 
medications in patients with hypertension. 
Methods 
Patients  who  showed inadequate  BP  control  (defined  as  DBP ≥90  mmHg)  at  Week  4  or Week  8  were 
uptitrated to the higher strength FDC of T80/A5. At subsequent visits (Weeks 8, 14 and 22) additional 
antihypertensive medications were added, if there was inadequate DBP control. Trough seated BP was 
measured 24 h post-dose at each visit. 
• 
Treatments 
This  open-label  follow-up  trial  did  not  have  any  randomisation.  All  patients  who  completed  the 
preceding  trial  1235.5  and  provided  informed  consent  for  participation  in  the  follow-up  trial  were 
eligible to receive the open-label treatment of T40/A5 for 4 weeks.  
Objectives 
• 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  fixed-dose 
combinations  (FDC)  of  telmisartan  40  mg/amlodipine  5  mg  (T40/A5),  and  telmisartan  80 
mg/amlodipine  5  mg  (T80/A5)  alone  or  in  addition  to  other  antihypertensive  therapies  during  open-
label treatment for at least 6 months. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 42/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The trial was unblinded 
Blinding (masking) 
Statistical methods 
• 
Only descriptive statistics were used for all analyses; no inferential statistics were used. No hypothesis 
was tested in this trial. 
Results  
• 
Disposition of patients 
Out of 976 patients, 930 (95.3%) completed the study, whereas 46 (4.7%) patients discontinued the 
study prematurely.  
• 
The proportion of patients with important protocol violations (PV) was 15.1%. 
Conduct of the study 
• 
Key Outcomes and estimation 
Long-term (at least 6 months), open-label treatment with the FDCs T40/A5 and T80/A5 was effective 
for  the  majority  of  patients  (79.5%)  in  achieving  trough  DBP  <90  mmHg.  The  proportion  of  patients 
who received additional antihypertensive therapy was low (21.3%). Clinically relevant mean reductions 
in SBP/DBP were achieved in all treatment groups when analysed by dose received prior to EOT visit.  
Due to the uncontrolled design it is difficult to draw conslusions on efficacy. However, the data suggest 
that  in  a  real  life  setting  almost  80%  of  the  patients  included  can  be  successfully  treated  with  the 
combination  of  tlemisartan/amlodipin  40/5  and  80/5.  There  is  no  indication  of  a  decrease  in  efficacy 
over time. 
 Study 1235.8 (interim analysis) 
It is an open-label follow-up trial (of study 1235.6) of the efficacy and safety of chronic administration 
of the combination of telmisartan 40 mg + amlodipine 10 mg or the combination of telmisartan 80 mg 
+  amlodipine  10  mg  tablets  alone  or  in  combination  with  other  antihypertensive  medications  in 
patients with hypertension.  
The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  fixed-dose  combination  (FDC)  of 
telmisartan 40mg + amlodipine 10mg (T40/A10) and the FDC of telmisartan 80mg + amlodipine 10mg 
(T80/A10)  alone  or in  addition  to  other  antihypertensive  therapies  during  open-label  treatment  for  at 
least 6 months. 
In  this  an  interim  analyis,  the  results  are  consistent  with  the  assumption  that  the  treatment  effect  is 
preserved over at least 6 months. The study meets the requirement for long term data on safety and 
efficacy. Due to the uncontrolled design the study cannot contribute to the question whether there is 
an additional effect of T80/10 mg as compared to T40/10mg. 
2.5.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Efficacy  of  the  individual  components  is  well  established.  Five  Phase  III  trials  were  conducted  to 
establish efficacy and safety in a substitution indication, an add-on indication and a first line indication. 
Studies 1235.5 and 1235.6 demonstrated that in patients not adequately treated by amlodipin 5 mg or 
10 mg the addition of telmisartan 40 or 80 mg was associated with an additional statistically significant 
and clinically relevant effect with respect to systolic and DBP and responder rate.  
The  GCP  deviations  on  the  precision  of  the  measurement  and  recording  of  blood  pressure  values 
introduced considerable concerns concerning the conduct of study 1235.5 and it’s ability to support the 
application.    The  impact  of  these  deficiencies  was  analysed.    There  was  no  evidence  of  a  systematic 
bias. The expected impact might be a reduction of the sensitivity to detect a difference.   
Given  that  the  study  was  a  superiority  study  which  achieved  significance,  the  impact  of  these 
deficiencies  was  not  thought  to  change  the  conclusions  of  the  study.  In  spite  of  the  high  number  of 
patients  that  may  have  been  concerned,  additional  sensitivity  analyses  excluding  up  to  34-47%  of 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 43/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients in a worst case scenario still confirmed a statistically significant superiority of the combination 
therapy group versus the monotherapy group. 
There  were  no  significant  differences  in  efficacy  in  the  individual  studies  in  most  subgroups 
investigated.  There  was  a  consistent  and  clinically  relevant  higher  efficacy  in  females  in  all  three 
pivotal  studies  in  parallel  with  a  higher  drug  exposure  in  females  for  telmisartan  shown  in  the  PK 
studies.  This  raises  a  more  general  question  whether  there  are  any  differences  between  male  and 
female. It is however considered that overall these data do not support a different posology for male 
and females. 
These  studies  were  sufficient  to  demonstrate  efficacy  of  the  proposed  combinations  in  a  second  line 
add-on  indication in  non-responders.  The  data  package  is  also considered  sufficient  for a  substitution 
indication.  
However, the data do not support a first line indication since the claim is based on a subgroup analysis 
in patients with moderate to severe hypertension. More importantly, for a first line indication an add-
on study is the preferred approach and the studies should be carried out in a population that is unlikely 
to show BP control with monotherapy which is not the case for patients with moderate to severe HTN.  
Consequently, the applicant further withdrew the first line indication during the assessment. 
The  number  of  very  elderly  patients  (above  70  years) is very limited  in  this  age  group,  consequently 
the SPC is adapted to mention that very little information is available in this subgroup of patients. 
There was no difference in efficacy between the strengths containing amlodipin 10 mg and either 40 or 
80 mg of telmisartan in office seated trough cuff measurement. This lack of an additional effect of the 
highest strength was also demonstrated in the filter study 1235.6, where either telmisartan 40 mg or 
80  mg  was  administered  to  patients  not  adequately  responding  to  amlodipin  10  mg.  However, 
considering  the  additional  justification  provided  by  the  applicant  upon  CHMP  request,  it  can  be 
accepted  that  there  may  be  a  subgroup  of  patents  with  an  additional  benefit  in  clinical  practice  as 
indicated in the ABPM substudy in patients with at least moderate hypertension. This is an acceptable 
justification for the highest strength containing T80/A10 mg. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
Overall 3505 patients with essential hypertension were included in the analysis of safety as they were 
treated with at least 1 dose of the FDC dose of telmisartan/amlodipine (T/A), the free combination of 
telmisartan  plus  amlodipine  (T+A),  telmisartan  monotherapy,  amlodipine  monotherapy,  or  placebo  in 
the randomised treatment periods of all phase III trials. In addition, 258 healthy subjects were treated 
in pooled phase I trials. See below 
Trial 
Placebo 
Amlodipine 
Telmisartan 
T/A  
Total 
Phase III 
1235.1 
1235.5 
1235.6 
1235.7  
1235.8  
Phase I  
Patient exposure 
46 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
319 
543 
315 
0 
0 
12 
307 
0 
0 
0 
0 
36 
789 
554 
632 
976 
437 
258 
1461 
1097 
947 
976 
437 
258 
Mean  exposure  to  randomised  treatment  ranged  in  studies  1235.5  and  1235.6  from  55.8-57.6  days, 
the total exposure to the T/A FDCs ranged from 43.0-50.0 patient years. In trial 1235 the duration of 
exposure to T+A was 120.3 patient years. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 44/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  trials  1235.7  and  1235.8  mean  exposure  to  T/A  FDC  ranged  from  91.8  days  in  the  T40/A10 
treatment  group  to  202.2 days  in  the  T80/A10  treatment  group.  The  total  exposure  to  the  T/A  FDC 
ranged  from  109.9-403.3  patient  years.  The  majority  of  patients  treated  with  T40/A5,  T80/A5,  and 
T80/A10 were treated for >180 days. 
In the 5 pooled phase I trials 258 healthy subjects were exposed to T+A for 849 patient-days; of these 
36 were also exposed to telmisartan for 324 patient-days and 12 were also exposed to amlodipine for 
108 patient-days. 
Long  term  safety  data  of  at  least  6  months  are  provided  for  a  sufficient  number  of  patients.  Upon 
request  of  the  CHMP,  the  applicant  referred  in  hits  reply  to  longer  term  safety  data  from  the 
ONTARGET trial in more than 3000 patients had an exposure of more than one year with telmisartan 
and amlodipine. 
Adverse events  
Trials 1235.5 and 1235.6  
The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  according  to  SOC  were  general  disorders  and  administration  site 
conditions.  This  was  due  to  the  high  incidence  of  peripheral  oedema  generally  more  common  in 
patients treated with amlodipine compared with combination therapies that included A10 or A5.  
Table 63 : AEs reported by at least 1% of patients during the randomised treatment period of trials 
1235.5 and 1235.6 (treated set) 
System organ class 
Number (%) of patients 
Preferred term 
A5 
A10 
T40/A5 
T40/A10  T80/A5  T80/A10 
N 
Total with AEs 
267 
99 (37.1) 
591 
195 
(33.0) 
6 (1.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.2) 
277 
98 (35.4) 
5 (1.8) 
2 (0.7) 
1 (0.4) 
5 (1.8) 
315 
55 
(17.5) 
4 (1.3) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
277 
93 
(33.6) 
7 (2.5) 
4 (1.4) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (0.7) 
317 
68 
(21.5) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
5 (1.9) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (1.1) 
4 (1.5) 
3 (1.1) 
10 (3.7) 
1 (0.2) 
8 (1.4) 
4 (1.4) 
11 (4.0) 
0 (0.0) 
5 (1.6) 
2 (0.7) 
12 (4.3) 
0 (0.0) 
4 (1.3) 
4 (1.5) 
30 (11.2) 
1 (0.2) 
102 
(17.3) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
22 (8.2) 
16 (6.0) 
2 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
96 
(16.2) 
22 (3.7) 
0 (0.0) 
19 (6.9) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.4) 
22 (7.0)  21 (7.6)  29 (9.1) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
14 (5.1) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (1.1) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
4 (1.4) 
21 (6.7)  10 (3.6)  27 (8.5) 
25 (9.0) 
7 (2.2) 
22 (7.9)  11(3.5) 
3 (1.1) 
2 (0.7) 
1 (0.4) 
3 (1.1) 
1 (0.4) 
4 (0.7) 
7 (1.2) 
2 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
4 (1.4) 
2 (0.7) 
3 (1.1) 
3 (1.1) 
1 (0.4) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (0.7) 
3 (1.1) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (1.1) 
2 (0.6) 
1 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (0.7) 
3 (0.5) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.3) 
4 (1.4) 
2 (0.6) 
6 (2.2) 
5 (0.8) 
4 (1.4) 
1 (0.3) 
4 (1.4) 
2 (0.6) 
3 (1.1) 
9 (3.4) 
0 (0.0) 
20 (3.4) 
1 (0.4) 
10 (3.6) 
0 (0.0) 
10 (3.2) 
0 (0.0) 
8 (2.9) 
0 (0.0) 
10 (3.2) 
Cardiac disorders 
  Palpitations 
  Tachycardia 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
  Vertigo 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
  Nausea 
Gen. dis. and 
administration site 
conditions 
   Chest pain 
   Fatigue 
   Oedema peripheral 
Infections and 
infestations 
   Bronchitis 
   Influenza 
   Nasopharyngitis 
   Pharyngitis 
   Respiratory tract 
infection 
   Upper resp. tract 
infection 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
   Epicondylitis 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 45/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypercholesterolaemia 
Hypertriglyceridaemia 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
   Arthralgia 
   Back pain 
   Muscle spasms 
   Neck pain 
   Pain in extremity 
Nervous system 
disorders 
   Dizziness 
   Headache 
Resp, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
   Cough 
4 (1.5) 
10 (1.7) 
3 (1.1) 
7 (2.2) 
2 (0.7) 
5 (1.6) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (1.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0  (0.0) 
16 (6.0) 
26 (4.4) 
8 (2.9) 
4 (1.3) 
20 (7.2)  10 (3.2) 
1 (0.4) 
4 (1.5) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
3 (1.1) 
15 (5.6) 
5 (0.8) 
5 (0.8) 
3 (0.5) 
1 (0.2) 
3 (0.5) 
24 (4.1) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (1.1) 
1 (0.4) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
12 (4.3) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (0.6) 
1 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
5 (1.6) 
1 (0.4) 
6 (2.2) 
4 (1.4) 
3 (1.1) 
0 (0.0) 
20 (7.2) 
5 (1.6) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
6 (1.9) 
4 (1.5) 
9 (3.4) 
7 (2.6) 
9 (1.5) 
9 (1.5) 
5 (0.8) 
5 (1.8) 
5 (1.8) 
6 (2.2) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.3) 
6 (2.2) 
6 (2.2) 
9 (3.2) 
2 (0.6) 
1 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.4) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (1.1) 
1 (0.3) 
4 (1.4) 
0 (0.0) 
Table 64 : Incidence of any AE and of peripheral oedema by worst intensity during the randomised 
treatment period of trials 1235.5 and 1235.6 (treated set) 
AE 
Number (%) of patients 
Worst intensity 
A5 
A10 
T40/A5 
T40/A10 
T80/A5 
T80/A10 
N 
Any AE 
Mild 
267 
99 
(37.1) 
65 (24.3) 
591 
195 
(33.0) 
113 
(19.1) 
277 
98 
(35.4) 
315 
55 
(17.5) 
69 (24.9)  39 (12.4) 
Moderate 
29 (10.9)  69 (11.7) 
26 (9.4) 
12 (3.8) 
Severe 
Oedema 
peripheral 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
5 (1.9) 
22 (8.2) 
13 (2.2) 
96 
(16.2) 
3 (1.1) 
4 (1.3) 
14 (5.1)  21 (6.7) 
18 (6.7) 
57 (9.6) 
9 (3.2) 
18 (5.7) 
6 (2.2) 
21 (6.6) 
2 (0.7) 
32 (5.4) 
5 (1.8) 
2 (0.6) 
4 (1.4) 
6 (1.9) 
2 (0.7) 
7 (1.2) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
277 
93 
(33.6) 
61 
(22.0) 
31 
(11.2) 
1 (0.4) 
10 
(3.6) 
317 
68 
(21.5) 
48 (15.1) 
17 (5.4) 
3 (0.9) 
27 (8.5) 
Trials 1235.7 and 1235.8 
In the follow-up trials in which patients were administered the combination therapy of T/A for up to 34 
weeks,  according  to  SOC  infections  and  infestations  were  the  most  common  AEs.  The  incidence  of 
common  Prefered  Terms  (PTs)  other  than  peripheral  oedema  was  generally  comparable  across  all 
treatment  groups.  Back  pain,  dizziness  and  hypercholesterolaemia  were  the  only  other  PTs  with  an 
incidence >5/100 PY in at least 1 treatment group.  
Trial 1235.1 
In trial 1235.1 in which T+A was administered as initial antihypertensive therapy, the most frequently 
reported AEs were general disorders and administration site conditions, with the highest incidence for 
the  A mono  group  (11.9%)  and  lower  incidences  for  pooled  combination  therapy  (8.5%)  and  T mono 
groups  (4.2%).  Musculoskeletal  and  connective  tissue  disorders  and  nervous  system  disorders  were 
each  reported  by  ≥5%  of  patients  in  both  pooled  monotherapy  groups  and  the  incidences  were 
comparable across all pooled groups.  
The  most  common  PTs  for  the  pooled  combination  therapy  group  were  peripheral  oedema  (4.8%), 
headache (4.7%), dizziness (3.0%), and back pain (2.2%). The lower incidence of peripheral oedema 
observed  in  the  pooled  combination  therapy  group  and  the  A mono  group  compared  with  the  higher 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 46/52
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
dose  key  combination  treatment  group  reflected  that  the  pooled  therapies  analysis  included  groups 
with lowest doses of amlodipine (A2.5) and combination therapies including this low dose.  
The  incidence  of  dizziness  was  higher  in  the  pooled  combination  therapy  group  than  in  either  of  the 
pooled monotherapy groups.  However, there did not appear to be a dose dependency with regard to 
incidences across individual combination therapy groups. The incidence of back pain was similar in the 
pooled combination and amlodipine monotherapy groups.   
There  were  few  cases  of  syncope  or  hypotension.  On  combination  therapy,  syncope  was  reported  by 
0.3%  of  patients  compared  with  none  on  either  telmisartan  or  amlodipine  monotherapy.  There  were 
0.6% patients with hypotension and orthostatic hypotension reported in 0.1% on pooled combination 
therapy and 0.3% on pooled amlodipine monotherapy (A10). Only one case of hypotension (T20+A5) 
was  reported  during  the  initial  treatment  period.  There  were  no  cases  of  orthostatic  hypotension  or 
syncope during the initial treatment period. 
When  comparing  T40+A10  with  T80+10  the  rate  of  AEs  was  slightly  higher  with  the  higher 
combination.  
Summary of adverse events in phase III trials 
The  overall  incidences  of  AEs  in  the  AE  profiles  of  any  of  the  doses  of  T/A  FDC  (T40/A5,  T40/A10, 
T80/A5,  and  T80/A10)  were  similar.  During  double-blind  treatment,  the  overall  incidences  of  AEs  on 
the T/A FDCs were comparable with those of amlodipine (A5 and A10), with the exception of peripheral 
oedema, which was more common on amlodipine monotherapy. There were few severe AEs and SAEs 
reported in any treatment group.  
During  the  long  term  open-label  follow-up  trials,  the  incidence  of  AEs  or  drug-related  AEs  across  the 
4 doses  of  T/A  FDC  was  similar.  Overall,  the  pattern  and  incidences  of  AEs  were  found  to  be  in 
accordance with the known safety profiles for telmisartan and amlodipine.  
Drug-related AEs  
Trials 1235.5 and 1235.6  
The lowest incidence of drug-related AEs were in the pooled telmisartan monotherapy while the highest 
incidence  was  in  the  pooled  combination  therapy  patients.  The most  frequently  reported  drug-related 
AEs  (≥1%),  for  the  pooled  combination  therapy  group  were  peripheral  oedema,  dizziness  and 
headache; however, the incidences for dizziness and headache were lower than with placebo. With the 
exception of peripheral oedema, the incidence of drug-related AEs was low and comparable across all 
monotherapy  and  combination  therapy  groups.  There  were  no  cases  of  drug-related  syncope  or 
orthostatic  hypotension  in  any  treatment  group;  there  was  one  case  of  drug-related  hypotension 
(T40/A10).  
Trials 1235.7 and 1235.8  
In the follow-up trials, the incidence of drug-related AEs was similar across all doses of FDC. The most 
frequently reported drug-related AEs according to SOC were general disorders and administration site 
conditions. The only drug-related AEs reported by ≥1% of patients in any dose group were peripheral 
oedema and dizziness.  
In conclusion, the pattern and incidences of drug-related AEs were found to be in accordance with the 
existing SPCs for telmisartan and amlodipine. 
AEs of special interest 
The overall incidences of AEs potentially related to BP lowering were generally low, but slightly higher 
in  the  pooled  combination  therapy  group  (4.1%)  than  in  the  pooled  monotherapy  groups  (1.6% 
T mono;  1.6%  A mono),  compared  with  2.2%  on  placebo.  The  most  commonly  reported  of  such  AEs 
was  dizziness,  corresponding  to  3.0%  of  patients  on  pooled  combination  therapy,  1.3%  on  pooled 
telmisartan  monotherapy,  1.3%  on  pooled  amlodipine  monotherapy,  and  2.2%  on  placebo.  Dizziness 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 47/52
 
 
 
 
 
was  reported  more  frequently  in  female  than  male  patients.  Besides  that,  no  specific  pattern  for  AEs 
potentially related to BP lowering is evident. 
Overall the AEs of special interest (dizziness, hypotension, syncope) were reported more frequently in 
the group with combination therapy. In this trial it is not possible to differentiate between AEs that are 
associated  with  a  first  line  use  of  the  combination  and  those  that  are  inheritant  to  a  combination 
therapy  itself.  The  data  are  not  sufficient  to  exclude  a  risk  for  patients  at  special  risk  (e.g.  the  very 
elderly above 70 or 75 years or patients with diabetes). 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
There were 4 deaths reported across all clinical trials. 
Serious adverse events 
The  incidence  of  SAEs  was  low  and  comparable  across  all  treatment  groups.  Only  2 SAEs  were 
considered related to trial medication (chest pain and hypotonia). 
Laboratory findings 
Changes  in  laboratory  parameters  were  usually  small  and  consistent  with  the  expected  profile  of  the 
two active substances across all trials. 
Safety in special populations 
The  higher  incidence  of  AEs  in  females  in  studies  1235.5  and  1235.6  in  the  T40/A5  and  T80/A5 
treatment groups is consistent with a higher drug exposure seen in PK studies and a higher efficacy in 
females. Overall the finding does not change the benefit risk balance for females.  
Beyond this there was no consistent pattern of concern for special populations over the studies. 
There  was  no  consistent  or  clinically  meaningful  pattern  of  differences  in  safety  profile  across 
subgroups of extrinsic factors for the T/A FDC. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
There are no specific interactions expected beyond those expected with the interections seen with the 
monosubstances. 
The  BP  lowering  effect  of  T/A  FDC  may  be  increased  with  concomitant  use  of  other  antihypertensive 
medicinal  products.  In  addition,  medicinal  products  with  BP-lowering  effects  (e.g.  barbiturates, 
narcotics, antidepressants, baclofen, amifostine) and alcohol may potentiate the hypotensive effects of 
antihypertensive  agents  including  T/A  FDC.  Corticosteroid  containing  medicinal  products  for  systemic 
use may reduce the antihypertensive effect of T/A FDC.  
Post marketing experience 
There is no direct experience with the use of the combination of telmisartan and amlodipine. However, 
telmisartan  and  amlodipine  are  frequently  co-prescribed  with  up  to  30%  in  Japan  and  up  to  10%  in 
North America and in EU.   
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety database includes 3 controlled studies, 2 long term extension studies and a pool of phase I 
clinical trials.  
The  safety  exposure  data  consisted  of  3505  patients  from  the  phase  III  trials,  of  these  2590  were 
treated  with  T/A  FDC  or  T+A  combination  therapy  and  258  healthy  subjects  from  phase  I  trials.  The 
safety  database  is  largely  consistent  with  the  requirements  of  the  NfG  for  hypertension  and  ICH  E1. 
There are however very limited data presented for the very elderly patients above 70 years 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 48/52
 
 
 
 
 
The rate of SAEs and deaths was in the expected range and none of the deaths were associated with a 
drug related event.  
There is no clear dose related effect of AEs observed. The overall incidences of AEs in the AE profiles of 
any  of  the  doses  of  T/A  FDC  (T40/A5,  T40/A10,  T80/A5,  and  T80/A10)  were  similar.  The  overall 
incidences of AEs on the T/A FDCs were comparable with those of amlodipine (A5 and A10), with the 
exception of peripheral oedema, which was more common on amlodipine monotherapy. 
In all 3 phase III trial groupings, incidences of AEs (serious and non-serious) leading to discontinuation 
were  generally  low  in  patients  treated  with  T/A  combinations  and  peripheral  oedema  was  the  most 
frequent observed AE.  
In females, there was an indication of a higher rate of AEs in parallel with a higher drug exposure seen 
in the PK studies and a higher efficacy in the clinical studies in females. 
However,  there  was  no  consistent  or  clinically  meaningful  pattern  of  differences  in  the  safety  profile 
across subgroups of intrinsic factors as well as for extrinsic factors. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
There are no specific interactions expected beyond those expected with the interections seen with the 
monosubstances. 
The  BP  lowering  effect  of  T/A  FDC  may  be  increased  with  concomitant  use  of  other  antihypertensive 
medicinal  products.  In  addition,  medicinal  products  with  BP-lowering  effects  (e.g.  barbiturates, 
narcotics, antidepressants, baclofen, amifostine) and alcohol may potentiate the hypotensive effects of 
antihypertensive  agents  including  T/A  FDC.  Corticosteroid  containing  medicinal  products  for  systemic 
use may reduce the antihypertensive effect of T/A FDC.  
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety  
Overall the clinical safety is consistent with the known safety profile of the monosubstances and 
there are no safety concerns that preclude a positive benefit risk balance. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The applicant has provided documents that set out a detailed description of the Boehringer Ingelheim 
system  of  pharmacovigilance  (Version  5.4  dated  25  February  2010).  A  statement  signed  by  the 
applicant and the qualified person for pharmacovigilance, indicating that the applicant has the services 
of a qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance and the necessary means for the notification of 
any adverse reaction occurring either in the Community or in a third country has been provided. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative  requirements  as  described  in  Volume  9A  of  the  Rules  Governing  Medicinal  Products  in  the 
European  Union  and  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  applicant  has  the  services  of  a  qualified 
person  responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any 
adverse reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk management plan 
The CHMP did not require the Marketing Authorisation Application to submit a risk management plan 
for the fixed combination of telmisartan/amlodipine given the wide use of the components. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 49/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.8.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Non clinical aspects   
The non clinical part of the dossier consists of bibliographic data on amlodipine and on telmisartan as 
single components and additionally 3 non clinical studies: one single dose oral pharmacokinetic study, 
a  protein  binding  study  and  a  13  week  toxicity  study  comparing  the  effects  of  both  compounds 
individually and in combination. 
The  toxicological  properties  of  telmisartan  and  amlodipine  are  both  well  characterised.  The  additional 
studies  confirmed  the  known  properties  of  each  component  and  demonstrated  a  similar  profile  when 
used in combination.  
Overall, the non clinical safety studies have not identified any important safety concerns which affect 
the benefit risk assessment. 
Efficacy  
Twynsta  is  a  fixed  combination  product  consisting  of  two  well  known  active  substances:  amlodipine 
besilate and telmisartan. Four strengths are proposed containing 40 mg/ 5 mg, 40 mg /10 mg, 80 mg/ 
5 mg and 80 mg / 10 mg. 
A  bioequivalence  approach  was  used  to  bridge  the  clinical  data  obtained  with  a  combination  of  the 
mono components for the strengths containing 40/5 and 80/10 mg T/A to the final FDC formulation.  
Five Phase III trials were conducted to establish efficacy and safety in a substitution indication, an add-
on indication and a first line indication. 
There  were  no  significant  differences  in  efficacy  in  the  phase  III    studies  in  most  subgroups 
investigated  for  moderate  or  severe  hypertension  among  the  four  dose  levels  for  telmisartan  and 
amlodipin.  The  results  demonstrated  the  individual  contribution  of  each  monosubstance  in  the 
combination. 
The phase III studies demonstrated also that in patients not adequately treated by amlodipin 5 mg or 
10 mg the addition of telmisartan 40 or 80 mg was associated with an additional statistically significant 
and clinically relevant effect with respect to systolic and diastolic blood pressure and responder rate.  
The studies were not carried out in a population that is unlikely to show BP control with monotherapy, 
therefore,  the  clinical  efficacy  package  was  considered  insufficient  to  support  a  first  line  indication, 
which was subsequently withdrawn during the procedure. 
These  studies  were  sufficient  to  demonstrate  efficacy  of  the  proposed  combinations  in  a  second  line 
add-on  indication in  non-responders.  The  data  package  is  also considered  sufficient  for a  substitution 
indication.  
There was no difference in efficacy between the strengths containing amlodipin 10 mg and either 40 or 
80 mg of telmisartan in office seated trough cuff measurement. However, based on the ABPM data it 
was  accepted  that  there  may  be  a  subgroup  of  patients  with  at  least  moderate  hypertension  with  an 
additional benefit in clinical practice.  
Safety  
The safety database includes 3 controlled studies, 2 long term extension studies and a pool of phase I 
clinical trials.  
The  safety  exposure  data  consisted  of  3505  patients  from  the  phase  III  trials,  of  these  2590  were 
treated with telmisartan and amlodipine FDC or telmisartan plus amlodipine combination therapy and 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 50/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
258  healthy  subjects  from  phase  I  trials.  The  database  is  largely  consistent  with  the  requirements  of 
the NfG for hypertension and ICH E1 guideline. There are however very limited data presented for the 
very elderly patients above 70 years. 
There is no clear dose related effect of AEs observed. The overall incidences of AEs in the AE profiles of 
any  of  the  doses  of  T/A  FDC  (T40/A5,  T40/A10,  T80/A5,  and  T80/A10)  were  similar.  The  overall 
incidences of AEs on the T/A FDCs were comparable with those of amlodipine (A5 and A10), with the 
exception of peripheral oedema, which was more common on amlodipine monotherapy. 
However,  there  was  no  consistent  or  clinically  meaningful  pattern  of  differences  in  the  safety  profile 
across subgroups of intrinsic factors as well as for extrinsic factors. 
The  most  frequent  reported  drug-related  AEs  for  the  FDC  were  peripheral  oedema,  dizziness  and 
headache, in line with what is observed with the single components.  
Overall the clinical safety is consistent with the known safety profile of the monosubstances and there 
are no safety concerns that preclude a positive benefit risk balance. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability if the label and package leaflet of medicinal product for human use. 
2.9.  Benefit-risk balance  
Phase  III  studies  demonstrated  that  telmisartan/amlodipine  40/5  mg  and  80/5  mg  and 
telmisartan/amlodipine  40/10  mg  and  80/10  mg  exert  a  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant 
effect  on  BP  parameters  in  patients  not  adequately  responding  to  Amlodipine  5  mg  or  10  mg 
respectively.  
The package of these studies was appropriate to justify an indication in non-responders to amlodipine 
as well as a substitution indication but not a first line indication. 
The  two  supportive  open  label  studies  1235.7  and  1235.8  (interim  analysis)  provided  sufficient 
reassurance that the effect of telmisartan in combination with amlodipine is preserved during long term 
treatment. 
The  main  benefit  of  the  FDC  is  to  assume  better  compliance  with  antihypertensive  therapy  when  the 
pill  burden  is  reduced  in  patients  who  are  using  double  combination  therapy  with  telmisartan  and 
amlodipine free combination.  
The main risk relates to the very limited data available in very elderly patients (>70years).  
Overall the clinical efficacy and safety of the single components is well known and the data for the FDC 
are consistent with the known efficacy and safety profile of the individual substances.  
In conclusion, there are no efficacy and safety concerns that preclude a positive benefit risk balance. 
2.9.1.  Risk management plan 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that:  
• 
routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
•  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 51/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.10.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by majority 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of TWYNSTA in the treatment of essential hypertension in adults: 
Add on therapy 
TWYNSTA is indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on amlodipine. 
Replacement therapy 
Adult patients receiving telmisartan and amlodipine from separate tablets can instead receive tablets of 
TWYNSTA containing the same component doses. 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
CHMP assessment report  
 EMA/576613/2010 
Page 52/52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
