SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR TYBOST 
(COBICISTAT) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tybost. The RMP details important 
risks of Tybost, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Tybost’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Tybost’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Tybost should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Tybost should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Tybost’s 
RMP. 
1. 
The Medicine and What is it Used for 
Tybost is authorized as a pharmacokinetic enhancer of the human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)-1 protease inhibitors atazanavir (ATV) or darunavir (DRV) in adults and adolescents aged 
12 years and older, weighing at least 35 kg co-administered with ATV or weighing at least 40 kg 
co-administered with DRV (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains cobicistat (COBI) as 
the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Tybost’s benefits can be found in Tybost’s EPAR, 
including its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-
_Summary_for_the_public/human/002572/WC500153017.pdf 
2. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about the risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
Information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly analyzed including 
periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Tybost is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
2A. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Tybost. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with 
the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the 
long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks  None 
Important Potential Risks 
Concurrent use of drugs whose coadministration with COBI is contraindicated 
Missing Information 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Safety in patients with cardiac conduction disorders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Table 2. 
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information 
Important Potential 
Risk 
Concurrent use of drugs whose coadministration with COBI is contraindicated 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to medicine 
A small number of postmarketing cases of concurrent use of COBI with a 
contraindicated drug have been reported. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Not known 
Risk minimization 
measure(s) 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC section 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 
PL Section 2 
Missing Information 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s) 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.6 
PL Section 2 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
See section 0 of this summary for an overview of the post-authorization development 
plan. 
Missing Information 
Safety in Patients with Cardiac Conduction Disorders 
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s) 
No routine risk minimization measures are considered necessary for this population at 
this time. 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
2C. 
2C.1 
Post-authorization Development Plan 
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Tybost. 
2C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Table 3. 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Short Study Name 
Purpose of the Study 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
To collect information on the risk of birth defects in patients exposed 
to COBI during pregnancy 
 
 
 
