EMA/78905/2020  
EMEA/H/C/002572 
Tybost (cobicistat) 
An overview of Tybost and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Tybost and what is it used for? 
Tybost is a medicine for treating adults and adolescents from 12 years of age (and over a certain 
weight) who are infected with HIV-1, a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
(AIDS). 
Tybost does not treat HIV directly but is given to boost the effects of atazanavir or darunavir, which 
are used with other standard medicines to treat HIV-1. 
It contains the active substance cobicistat. 
How is Tybost used? 
Tybost is available as tablets (150 mg). The recommended dose is one tablet per day, taken with food. 
Tybost is given together with 300 mg atazanavir once per day (in patients weighing at least 35 kg) or 
with 800 mg darunavir once per day (in patients weighing at least 40 kg).  
Tybost can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be started by a doctor who is 
experienced in managing HIV infection. For more information about using Tybost, see the package 
leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Tybost work? 
The active substance in Tybost, cobicistat, blocks the action of a group of liver enzymes called CYP3A, 
which are involved in breaking down medicines in the body. By blocking CYP3A, Tybost slows down the 
rate at which atazanavir and darunavir are broken down, allowing them to work for longer.  
Tybost is taken with atazanavir or darunavir, both of which are protease inhibitors: they block an 
enzyme called protease that is involved in the reproduction of the HIV-1 virus. When the enzyme is 
blocked, the virus cannot reproduce normally, which slows down the spread of infection. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment with Tybost and atazanavir or darunavir does not cure HIV-1 infection or AIDS, but it can 
hold off damage to the immune system and the development of infections and diseases associated with 
AIDS, when combined with other standard HIV-1 medicines. 
What benefits of Tybost have been shown in studies? 
A main study in patients infected with HIV-1 showed that Tybost was as effective as another booster 
medicine, ritonavir.   
In this study, both medicines were used to boost the effects of atazanavir, in combination with another 
standard HIV-1 medicine containing emtricitabine and tenofovir. After 48 weeks, around 85% of 
patients given Tybost had very low levels of HIV-1 (< 50 RNA copies/ml), compared with around 87% 
of patients given ritonavir.  
Further data indicated that Tybost was effective as a booster medicine with atazanavir or darunavir in 
adolescents between 12 and 17 years of age. 
What are the risks associated with Tybost? 
The most common side effects with Tybost (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) when given 
with atazanavir are ocular icterus (yellowing of the whites of the eyes), nausea (feeling sick) and 
jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes). For the full list of side effects of Tybost, see the package 
leaflet. 
Tybost must not be taken together with a number of other medicines that affect the way Tybost is 
broken down or whose action is affected by Tybost. For the full list of restrictions, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Tybost authorised in the EU? 
Studies showed that Tybost was as effective as ritonavir as a booster for atazanavir, and a similar 
effect is expected for darunavir based on data on the impact of Tybost on the darunavir levels in the 
body. Furthermore, there were no safety concerns preventing Tybost from being used together with 
atazanavir or darunavir.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Tybost’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tybost? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tybost have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Tybost are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Tybost are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Tybost 
Tybost received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 September 2013. 
Further information on Tybost can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/tybost.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2020.  
