EMA/358138/2023  
EMEA/H/C/005781 
Tyenne (tocilizumab) 
An overview of Tyenne and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Tyenne and what is it used for? 
Tyenne is a medicine used to treat: 
• 
adults with severe rheumatoid arthritis that is getting worse, who have not been previously treated 
with a medicine called methotrexate;  
• 
adults with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis whose previous treatments with disease 
modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), such as methotrexate or medicines known as tumour 
necrosis factor (TNF) blockers, have not worked well enough or were not tolerated; 
• 
children from 1 year of age with active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis in whom other 
treatments (anti-inflammatory medicines called NSAIDs and corticosteroids medicines by mouth or 
injection) have not worked well enough; 
• 
children from 2 years of age with juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis in whom treatment with 
methotrexate has not worked well enough.  
Tyenne is used in combination with methotrexate for these conditions but it can be used on its own in 
patients for whom methotrexate is inappropriate.  
Tyenne is also used to treat: 
• 
• 
adults with giant cell arteritis, a disease in which arteries, usually of the head, are swollen; 
adults and children from 2 years of age with severe or life-threatening cytokine release syndrome 
(CRS, a condition that can cause nausea, vomiting, pain and low blood pressure). CRS is a side 
effect of certain cancer treatments and Tyenne is used for CRS caused by medicines known as 
chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) T-cell medicines. 
Tyenne can also be used in adults with COVID-19 who are receiving treatment with corticosteroid 
medicines by mouth or injection and require extra oxygen or mechanical ventilation (breathing assisted 
by a machine). 
Tyenne contains the active substance tocilizumab and is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that 
Tyenne is highly similar to another biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for Tyenne is RoActemra. For more information on 
biosimilar medicines, see here. 
How is Tyenne used? 
Tyenne can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who has 
experience in the diagnosis and treatment of the relevant condition.  
Tyenne is available as a solution to be injected under the skin and as a concentrate for making a 
solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. How Tyenne is given, its dose and how often it is given depends 
on the condition it is used to treat. For COVID-19 and CRS, Tyenne must only be given as an infusion. 
For more information about using Tyenne, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Tyenne work? 
The active substance in Tyenne, tocilizumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a type of protein that has been 
designed to recognise and attach to a specific target (called an antigen) in the body. Tocilizumab 
attaches to the receptor for a messenger molecule or ‘cytokine’ called interleukin-6. This messenger is 
involved in inflammation and is found at high levels in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, systemic 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis, giant cell arteritis, CRS and COVID-19. By 
preventing interleukin-6 from attaching to its receptors, tocilizumab reduces the inflammation and 
other symptoms of these diseases. 
What benefits of Tyenne have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Tyenne with RoActemra have shown that the active substance in Tyenne 
is highly similar to that in RoActemra in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have 
also shown that giving Tyenne produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving 
RoActemra. 
In addition, Tyenne was as effective as RoActemra in reducing disease in a study involving 604 adults 
with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis for whom previous treatment with at least one 
DMARD had not worked well enough. After 24 weeks of treatment, the DAS28 score (a measure of 
disease activity in rheumatoid arthritis) had decreased by an average of 3.5 both in patients receiving 
Tyenne and in those receiving RoActemra.  
Because Tyenne is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of tocilizumab carried 
out with RoActemra do not all need to be repeated for Tyenne. 
What are the risks associated with Tyenne? 
The safety of Tyenne has been evaluated and, based on all the studies carried out, the side effects of 
the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine RoActemra. 
For the complete list of side effects and restrictions of Tyenne, see the package leaflet.  
The most common side effects with tocilizumab include upper respiratory tract infections (nose and 
throat infection) and nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), which may affect more 
than in 1 in 10 people, and headache, hypertension (high blood pressure) and abnormal liver function 
tests, which may affect up to in 1 in 10 people. The most serious side effects are serious infections, 
complications of diverticulitis (a disease affecting the gut) and hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions. 
Tyenne (tocilizumab)  
EMA/358138/2023  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
In patients with COVID-19, the most common side effects with tocilizumab (which may affect up to in 
1 in 10 people) include abnormal liver function tests, constipation, and urinary tract infections 
(infections of the parts of the body that collect and pass out urine the structures that carry urine). 
Tyenne must not be used in patients who have an active, severe infection (except COVID-19). Doctors 
should monitor patients carefully for signs of infection during treatment, and should prescribe Tyenne 
with caution in patients who have had recurring or long-term infections, or diseases that could increase 
the risk of infections, such as diverticulitis or diabetes. 
Why is Tyenne authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Tyenne has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to RoActemra and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, a study involving patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis has shown that the safety and effectiveness of Tyenne is equivalent to that of RoActemra in 
the treatment of this disease. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Tyenne will behave in the same way as 
RoActemra in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view 
was that, as for RoActemra, the benefits of Tyenne outweigh the identified risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tyenne? 
The company that markets Tyenne must supply all doctors expected to prescribe the medicine for 
rheumatoid arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis and giant cell 
arteritis with an educational pack containing important information on the safety and correct use of 
Tyenne. The pack will also include a patient alert card with key safety information for patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tyenne have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Tyenne a are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Tyenne are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Tyenne 
Tyenne received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 September 2023. 
Further information on Tyenne can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/tyenne.  
This overview was last updated in 09-2023.  
Tyenne (tocilizumab)  
EMA/358138/2023  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
