ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification 
of new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse 
reactions. See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyenne 20 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each mL concentrate contains 20 mg tocilizumab*. 
Each vial contains 80 mg of tocilizumab* in 4 mL (20 mg/mL).  
Each vial contains 200 mg of tocilizumab* in 10 mL (20 mg/mL).  
Each vial contains 400 mg of tocilizumab* in 20 mL (20 mg/mL). 
*humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody against the human interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor produced 
in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
Clear and colourless to pale yellow solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
Tyenne, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for: 
• 
• 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults not 
previously treated with MTX. 
the treatment of moderate to severe active RA in adult patients who have either responded 
inadequately to, or who were intolerant to, previous therapy with one or more disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists. 
In these patients, Tyenne can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where 
continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
Tocilizumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-
ray and to improve physical function when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Tyenne is indicated for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adults who are 
receiving systemic corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen or mechanical ventilation. 
Tyenne is indicated for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) in 
patients 2 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with 
NSAIDs and systemic corticosteroids. Tyenne can be given as monotherapy (in case of intolerance 
to MTX or where treatment with MTX is inappropriate) or in combination with MTX. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tyenne in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of juvenile 
idiopathic polyarthritis (pJIA; rheumatoid factor positive or negative and extended oligoarthritis) in 
patients 2 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with MTX. 
Tyenne can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment 
with MTX is inappropriate. 
Tyenne is indicated for the treatment of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell-induced severe or 
life-threatening cytokine release syndrome (CRS) in adults and paediatric patients 2 years of age 
and older. 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated by healthcare professionals experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of RA, COVID-19, sJIA, pJIA or CRS. 
All patients treated with Tyenne should be given the Patient Alert Card. 
Posology 
RA Patients 
The recommended posology is 8 mg/kg body weight (BW), given once every four weeks. 
For individuals whose body weight is more than 100 kg, doses exceeding 800 mg per infusion are 
not recommended (see section 5.2). 
Doses above 1.2 g have not been evaluated in clinical studies (see section 5.1). 
Dose adjustments due to laboratory abnormalities (see section 4.4).  
•  Liver enzyme abnormalities 
Laboratory Value 
Action 
 > 1 to 3 x Upper 
Limit of Normal 
(ULN) 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
For persistent increases in this range, reduce Tyenne dose to 4 mg/kg or 
interrupt Tyenne until alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST) have normalized 
Restart with 4 mg/kg or 8 mg/kg, as clinically appropriate 
 > 3 to 5 x ULN 
(confirmed by 
repeat testing, see 
section 4.4). 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing until < 3 x ULN and follow recommendations above 
for > 1 to 3 x ULN 
For persistent increases > 3 x ULN, discontinue Tyenne 
 > 5 x ULN 
Discontinue Tyenne 
•  Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
In patients not previously treated with tocilizumab, initiation is not recommended in patients with 
an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) below 2 x 109/L. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory Value  
(cells x 109/L) 
ANC > 1 
ANC 0.5 to 1 
Action 
Maintain dose 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
When ANC increases > 1 x 109/L resume Tyenne at 4 mg/kg and increase to 
8 mg/kg as clinically appropriate 
ANC < 0.5 
Discontinue Tyenne 
•  Low platelet count 
Laboratory Value  
(cells x 103/ μL) 
50 to 100 
Action 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
When platelet count > 100 x 103/ μL resume Tyenne at 4 mg/kg and 
increase to 8 mg/kg as clinically appropriate 
< 50 
Discontinue Tyenne 
COVID-19 Patients 
The recommended posology for treatment of COVID-19 is a single 60-minute intravenous infusion 
of 8 mg/kg in patients who are receiving systemic corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen 
or mechanical ventilation, see section 5.1. If clinical signs or symptoms worsen or do not improve 
after the first dose, one additional infusion of Tyenne 8 mg/kg may be administered. The interval 
between the two infusions should be at least 8 hours. 
For individuals whose body weight is more than 100 kg, doses exceeding 800 mg per infusion are 
not recommended (see section 5.2). 
Administration of Tyenne is not recommended in patients with COVID-19 who have any of the 
following laboratory abnormalities: 
Laboratory test type 
Liver enzyme 
Absolute neutrophil count 
Platelet count 
Laboratory value 
> 10x ULN 
< 1 x 109 /L 
< 50 x 103 /μL 
Action 
Administration of Tyenne  is 
not recommended 
Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) (adults and paediatrics)  
The recommended posology for treatment of CRS given as a 60-minute intravenous infusion is 
8 mg/kg in patients weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg or 12 mg/kg in patients weighing less 
than 30 kg. Tyenne can be given alone or in combination with corticosteroids. 
If no clinical improvement in the signs and symptoms of CRS occurs after the first dose, up to 3 
additional doses of Tyenne may be administered. The interval between consecutive doses should be 
at least 8 hours. Doses exceeding 800 mg per infusion are not recommended in CRS patients. 
Patients with severe or life-threatening CRS frequently have cytopenias or elevated ALT or AST 
due to the underlying malignancy, preceding lymphodepleting chemotherapy or the CRS.
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Paediatric patients  
sJIA Patients 
The recommended posology in patients above 2 years of age is 8 mg/kg once every 2 weeks in 
patients weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg or 12 mg/kg once every 2 weeks in patients 
weighing less than 30 kg. The dose should be calculated based on the patient’s body weight at each 
administration. A change in dose should only be based on a consistent change in the patient’s body 
weight over time. 
The safety and efficacy of intravenous tocilizumab in children below 2 years of age has not been 
established. 
Dose interruptions of tocilizumab for the following laboratory abnormalities are recommended in 
sJIA patients in the tables below. If appropriate, the dose of concomitant MTX and/or other 
medicines should be modified or dosing stopped and tocilizumab dosing interrupted until the clinical 
situation has been evaluated. As there are many co-morbid conditions that may affect laboratory 
values in sJIA, the decision to discontinue Tyenne for a laboratory abnormality should be based 
upon the medical assessment of the individual patient. 
•  Liver enzyme abnormalities 
Laboratory 
Value 
Action 
> 1 to 3 x ULN  Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate. 
> 3 x ULN to 5x 
ULN 
> 5x ULN 
For persistent increases in this range, interrupt Tyenne until ALT/AST have 
normalized. 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate. 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing until < 3x ULN and follow recommendations above for 
> 1 to 3x ULN. 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in sJIA for a laboratory abnormality should 
be based on the medical assessment of the individual patient. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
Laboratory Value 
(cells x 109/ L) 
Action 
ANC > 1 
Maintain dose 
ANC 0.5 to 1 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
When ANC increases to > 1 x 109/ L resume Tyenne 
ANC < 0.5 
Discontinue Tyenne 
•  Low platelet count 
Laboratory Value 
(cells x 103/µL) 
50 to 100 
< 50 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in sJIA for a laboratory abnormality 
should be based on the medical assessment of the individual patient. 
Action 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
When platelet count is > 100 x 103/μL resume Tyenne 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in sJIA for a laboratory abnormality 
should be based on the medical assessment of the individual patient. 
There are insufficient clinical data to assess the impact of a tocilizumab dose reduction in sJIA 
patients who have experienced laboratory abnormalities. 
Available data suggest that clinical improvement is observed within 6 weeks of initiation of 
treatment with tocilizumab. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient 
exhibiting no improvement within this timeframe. 
pJIA Patients 
The recommended posology in patients above 2 years of age is 8 mg/kg once every 4 weeks in 
patients weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg or 10 mg/kg once every 4 weeks in patients 
weighing less than 30 kg. The dose should be calculated based on the patient’s body weight at each 
administration. A change in dose should only be based on a consistent change in the patient’s body 
weight over time. 
The safety and efficacy of intravenous tocilizumab in children below 2 years of age has not been 
established. 
Dose interruptions of tocilizumab for the following laboratory abnormalities are recommended in 
pJIA patients in the tables below. If appropriate, the dose of concomitant MTX and/or other 
medicines should be modified or dosing stopped and tocilizumab dosing interrupted until the 
clinical situation has been evaluated. As there are many co-morbid conditions that may affect 
laboratory values in pJIA, the decision to discontinue Tyenne for a laboratory abnormality should 
be based upon the medical assessment of the individual patient. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Liver enzyme abnormalities 
Laboratory  
Value 
> 1 to 3 x ULN 
Action 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
For persistent increases in this range, interrupt Tyenne until ALT/AST have 
normalized. 
> 3 x ULN to 5x 
ULN 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing until < 3x ULN and follow recommendations above 
for >1 to 3x ULN 
> 5x ULN 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in pJIA for a laboratory abnormality 
should be based on the medical assessment of the individual patient. 
•  Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
Laboratory Value 
(cells x 109/ L ) 
Action 
ANC > 1 
Maintain dose 
ANC 0.5 to 1 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
When ANC increases to > 1 x 109/ L resume Tyenne 
ANC < 0.5 
Discontinue Tyenne 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in pJIA for a laboratory abnormality 
should be based on the medical assessment of the individual patient. 
•  Low platelet count 
Laboratory  
Value 
(cells x 103/μL) 
50 to 100 
Action 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
When platelet count is > 100 x 103/μL resume Tyenne 
< 50 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in pJIA for a laboratory abnormality 
should be based on the medical assessment of the individual patient. 
Reduction of tocilizumab dose due to laboratory abnormalities has not been studied in pJIA 
patients. 
Available data suggest that clinical improvement is observed within 12 weeks of initiation of 
treatment with tocilizumab. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient 
exhibiting no improvement within this timeframe. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients > 65 years of age. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild renal impairment. Tocilizumab has not been 
studied in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (see section 5.2). Renal function 
should be monitored closely in these patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
Tocilizumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Therefore, no dose 
recommendations can be made. 
Method of administration 
After dilution, Tyenne for RA, sJIA, pJIA, CRS and COVID-19 patients should be administered as 
an intravenous infusion over 1 hour. 
RA, sJIA, pJIA, CRS and COVID-19 Patients ≥ 30 kg 
Tyenne should be diluted to a final volume of 100 mL with sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL (0.45%) solution for injection using aseptic technique. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
sJIA, pJIA and CRS Patients < 30 kg 
Tyenne should be diluted to a final volume of 50 mL with sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL (0.45%) solution for injection using aseptic technique. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
If signs and symptoms of an infusion related reaction occur, slow or stop the infusion and 
administer appropriate medicine / supportive care immediately, see section 4.4. 
4.3  
Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active, severe infections with the exception of COVID-19 (see section 4.4). 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
RA, pJIA and sJIA Patients 
Infections 
Serious and sometimes fatal infections have been reported in patients receiving immunosuppressive 
agents including tocilizumab (see section 4.8, undesirable effects). Tocilizumab treatment must not 
be initiated in patients with active infections (see section 4.3). Administration of tocilizumab 
should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious infection until the infection is controlled (see 
section 4.8). Healthcare professionals should exercise caution when considering the use of 
tocilizumab in patients with a history of recurring or chronic infections or with underlying 
conditions (e.g. diverticulitis, diabetes and interstitial lung disease which may predispose patients 
to infections. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vigilance for the timely detection of serious infection is recommended for patients receiving 
biological treatments as signs and symptoms of acute inflammation may be lessened, associated 
with suppression of the acute phase reaction. The effects of tocilizumab on C-reactive protein 
(CRP), neutrophils and signs and symptoms of infection should be considered when evaluating a 
patient for a potential infection. Patients (which includes younger children with sJIA or pJIA who 
may be less able to communicate their symptoms) and parents/guardians of sJIA or pJIA patients, 
should be instructed to contact their healthcare professional immediately when any symptoms 
suggesting infection appear, in order to assure rapid evaluation and appropriate treatment. 
Tuberculosis 
As recommended for other biological treatments, RA, sJIA and pJIA patients should be screened 
for latent tuberculosis (TB) infection prior to starting tocilizumab therapy. Patients with latent TB 
should be treated with standard anti-mycobacterial therapy before initiating tocilizumab. 
Prescribers are reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin and interferon-gamma TB 
blood test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms (e.g., persistent cough, 
wasting/weight loss, low grade fever) suggestive of a tuberculosis infection occur during or after 
therapy with tocilizumab. 
Viral reactivation 
Viral reactivation (e.g. hepatitis B virus) has been reported with biologic therapies for RA. In 
clinical studies with tocilizumab, patients who screened positive for hepatitis were excluded. 
Complications of diverticulitis 
Events of diverticular perforations as complications of diverticulitis have been reported 
uncommonly with tocilizumab in RA patients (see section 4.8). Tocilizumab should be used with 
caution in patients with previous history of intestinal ulceration or diverticulitis. Patients presenting 
with symptoms potentially indicative of complicated diverticulitis, such as abdominal pain, 
haemorrhage and/or unexplained change in bowel habits with fever should be evaluated promptly 
for early identification of diverticulitis which can be associated with gastrointestinal perforation. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Serious hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in association with infusion of tocilizumab 
(see section 4.8). Such reactions may be more severe, and potentially fatal in patients who have 
experienced hypersensitivity reactions during previous infusions even if they have received 
pretreatment with steroids and antihistamines. Appropriate treatment should be available for 
immediate use in the event of an anaphylactic reaction during treatment with tocilizumab. If an 
anaphylactic reaction or other serious hypersensitivity / serious infusion related reaction occurs, 
administration of tocilizumab should be stopped immediately and tocilizumab should be 
permanently discontinued. 
Active hepatic disease and hepatic impairment 
Treatment with tocilizumab, particularly when administered concomitantly with MTX, may be 
associated with elevations in hepatic transaminases, therefore, caution should be exercised when 
considering treatment of patients with active hepatic disease or hepatic impairment (see sections 
4.2 and 4.8). 
Hepatotoxicity 
Transient or intermittent mild and moderate elevations of hepatic transaminases have been reported 
commonly with tocilizumab treatment (see section 4.8). An increased frequency of these elevations 
was observed when potentially hepatotoxic medicines (e.g. MTX) were used in combination with 
tocilizumab. When clinically indicated, other liver function tests including bilirubin should be 
considered. 
Serious treatment-induced liver injury, including acute liver failure, hepatitis and jaundice, have 
been observed with tocilizumab (see section 4.8). Serious hepatic injury occurred between 2 weeks 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to more than 5 years after initiation of tocilizumab. Cases of liver failure resulting in liver 
transplantation have been reported. Patients should be advised to immediately seek medical help if 
they experience signs and symptoms of hepatic injury. 
Caution should be exercised when considering initiation of tocilizumab treatment in patients with 
elevated ALT or AST > 1.5 x ULN. In RA, pJIA and sJIA patients with baseline ALT or AST > 5 
x ULN, treatment is not recommended. 
In RA, pJIA and sJIA patients, ALT/AST should be monitored every 4 to 8 weeks for the first 
6 months of treatment followed by every 12 weeks thereafter. For recommended modifications, 
including tocilizumab discontinuation, based on transaminases levels see section 4.2. For ALT or 
AST elevations > 3–5 x ULN, confirmed by repeat testing, tocilizumab treatment should be 
interrupted. 
Haematological abnormalities 
Decreases in neutrophil and platelet counts have occurred following treatment with tocilizumab 
8 mg/kg in combination with MTX (see section 4.8). There may be an increased risk of neutropenia 
in patients who have previously been treated with a TNF antagonist. 
In patients not previously treated with tocilizumab, initiation is not recommended in patients with 
an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) below 2 x 109/L. Caution should be exercised when 
considering initiation of tocilizumab treatment in patients with a low platelet count (i.e. platelet 
count below 100 x 103/ μL). In RA, sJIA and pJIA patients who develop an ANC < 0.5 x 109/L or a 
platelet count < 50 x 103/μL, continued treatment is not recommended. 
Severe neutropenia may be associated with an increased risk of serious infections, although there 
has been no clear association between decreases in neutrophils and the occurrence of serious 
infections in clinical studies with tocilizumab to date. 
In RA patients, neutrophils and platelets should be monitored 4 to 8 weeks after start of therapy 
and thereafter according to standard clinical practice. For recommended dose modifications based 
on ANC and platelet counts, see section 4.2. 
In sJIA and pJIA patients, neutrophils and platelets should be monitored at the time of second 
infusion and thereafter according to good clinical practice, see section 4.2. 
Lipid parameters 
Elevations in lipid parameters including total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-
density lipoprotein (HDL) and triglycerides were observed in patients treated with tocilizumab (see 
section 4.8). In the majority of patients, there was no increase in atherogenic indices, and elevations 
in total cholesterol responded to treatment with lipid lowering agents. 
In sJIA, pJIA and RA patients, assessment of lipid parameters should be performed 4 to 8 weeks 
following initiation of tocilizumab therapy. Patients should be managed according to local clinical 
guidelines for management of hyperlipidaemia. 
Neurological disorders 
Physicians should be vigilant for symptoms potentially indicative of new-onset central 
demyelinating disorders. The potential for central demyelination with tocilizumab is currently 
unknown. 
Malignancy 
The risk of malignancy is increased in patients with RA. Immunomodulatory medicinal products 
may increase the risk of malignancy. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaccinations 
Live and live attenuated vaccines should not be given concurrently with tocilizumab as clinical 
safety has not been established. In a randomized open-label study, adult RA patients treated with 
tocilizumab and MTX were able to mount an effective response to both the 23-valent 
pneumococcal polysaccharide and tetanus toxoid vaccines which was comparable to the response 
seen in patients on MTX only. It is recommended that all patients, particularly sJIA and pJIA 
patients, be brought up to date with all immunisations in agreement with current immunisation 
guidelines prior to initiating tocilizumab therapy. The interval between live vaccinations and 
initiation of tocilizumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines 
regarding immunosuppressive agents. 
Cardiovascular risk 
RA patients have an increased risk for cardiovascular disorders and should have risk factors (e.g. 
hypertension, hyperlipidaemia) managed as part of usual standard of care. 
Combination with TNF antagonists 
There is no experience with the use of tocilizumab with TNF antagonists or other biological 
treatments for RA, sJIA or pJIA patients. Tocilizumab is not recommended for use with other 
biological agents. 
Sodium 
This medicine contains 0.24 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each mL. This is 
equivalent to 0.012% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
Tyenne is however, diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%)  or 4.5 mg/mL (0.45%) solution for 
infusion. This should be taken into consideration for patients on a controlled sodium diet (see section 
6.6). 
COVID-19 Patients 
• 
• 
The efficacy of tocilizumab has not been established in the treatment of COVID-19 patients 
who do not have elevated CRP levels, see section 5.1 
Tocilizumab should not be administered to COVID-19 patients who are not receiving 
systemic corticosteroids as an increase in mortality cannot be excluded in this subgroup, see 
section 5.1. 
Infections 
In COVID-19 patients, tocilizumab should not be administered if they have any other concurrent 
severe active infection. Healthcare professionals should exercise caution when considering the use 
of Tyenne in patients with a history of recurring or chronic infections or with underlying conditions 
(e.g. diverticulitis, diabetes, and interstitial lung disease) which may predispose patients to 
infections. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Patients hospitalized with COVID-19 may have elevated ALT or AST levels. Multi-organ failure 
with involvement of the liver is recognized as a complication of severe COVID-19. The decision to 
administer tocilizumab should balance the potential benefit of treating COVID-19 against the 
potential risks of acute treatment with tocilizumab. In COVID-19 patients with elevated ALT or 
AST above 10 x ULN, administration of tocilizumab treatment is not recommended. In COVID-19 
patients, ALT/AST should be monitored according to current standard clinical practices. 
Haematological abnormalities  
In COVID-19 patients who develop an ANC < 1 x 109 /L or a platelet count < 50 x 103 /μL, 
administration of tocilizumab is not recommended. Neutrophil and platelet counts should be 
monitored according to current standard clinical practices, see section 4.2. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
sJIA Patients 
Macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) is a serious life-threatening disorder that may develop in 
sJIA patients. In clinical studies, tocilizumab has not been studied in patients during an episode of 
active MAS. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Concomitant administration of a single dose of 10 mg/kg tocilizumab with 10-25 mg MTX once 
weekly had no clinically significant effect on MTX exposure. 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses did not detect any effect of MTX, non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or corticosteroids on tocilizumab clearance. 
The expression of hepatic CYP450 enzymes is suppressed by cytokines, such as IL-6, that 
stimulate chronic inflammation. Thus, CYP450 expression may be reversed when potent cytokine 
inhibitory therapy, such as tocilizumab, is introduced. 
In vitro studies with cultured human hepatocytes demonstrated that IL-6 caused a reduction in 
CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 enzyme expression. Tocilizumab normalises 
expression of these enzymes. 
In a study in RA patients, levels of simvastatin (CYP3A4) were decreased by 57% one week 
following a single dose of tocilizumab, to the level similar to, or slightly higher than, those 
observed in healthy subjects. 
When starting or stopping therapy with tocilizumab, patients taking medicinal products which are 
individually adjusted and are metabolised via CYP450 3A4, 1A2 or 2C9 (e.g. methylprednisolone, 
dexamethasone, (with the possibility for oral glucocorticoid withdrawal syndrome), atorvastatin, 
calcium channel blockers, theophylline, warfarin, phenprocoumon, phenytoin, ciclosporin, or 
benzodiazepines) should be monitored as doses may need to be increased to maintain therapeutic 
effect. Given its long elimination half-life (t1/2), the effect of tocilizumab on CYP450 enzyme 
activity may persist for several weeks after stopping therapy. 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential  
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during and up to 3 months after 
treatment. 
Pregnancy  
There are no adequate data from the use of tocilizumab in pregnant women. A study in animals has 
shown an increased risk of spontaneous abortion/embryo-foetal death at a high dose (see section 
5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Tocilizumab should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
Breast-feeding  
It is unknown whether tocilizumab is excreted in human breast milk. The excretion of tocilizumab 
in milk has not been studied in animals. A decision on whether to continue/discontinue breast-
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
feeding or to continue/discontinue therapy with tocilizumab should be made taking into account the 
benefit of breast-feeding to the child and the benefit of tocilizumab therapy to the woman. 
Fertility  
Available non-clinical data do not suggest an effect on fertility under tocilizumab treatment. 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tocilizumab has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines (see section 4.8, 
dizziness). 
4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile  
The most commonly reported ADRs (occurring in ≥ 5% of patients treated with tocilizumab 
monotherapy or in combination with DMARDs for RA, sJIA, pJIA and CRS) were upper 
respiratory tract infections, nasopharyngitis, headache, hypertension and increased ALT. The most 
serious ADRs were serious infections, complications of diverticulitis, and hypersensitivity 
reactions. 
The most commonly reported ADRs (occurring in ≥ 5% of patients treated with tocilizumab for 
COVID-19) were hepatic transaminases increased, constipation, and urinary tract infection. 
ADRs from clinical studies and/or post marketing experience with tocilizumab based on 
spontaneous case reports, literature cases and cases from non-interventional study programs are 
listed in Table 1 and in Table 2 by MedDRA system organ class. The corresponding frequency 
category for each ADR is based on the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common 
 (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (> 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) or very rare 
(< 1/10 000). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
RA Patients  
The safety profile of tocilizumab has been studied in 4 placebo-controlled studies (studies II, III, IV 
and V), 1 mTX-controlled study (study I) and their extension periods (see section 5.1). 
The double-blind controlled period was 6 months in four studies (studies I, III, IV and V) and was 
up to 2 years in one study (study II). In the double-blind controlled studies, 774 patients received 
tocilizumab 4 mg/kg in combination with MTX, 1 870 patients received tocilizumab 8 mg/kg in 
combination with MTX or other DMARDs and 288 patients received tocilizumab 8 mg/kg 
monotherapy. 
The long-term exposure population includes all patients who received at least one dose of 
tocilizumab either in the double-blind control period or open label extension phase in the studies. 
Of the 4 009 patients in this population, 3 577 received treatment for at least 6 months, 3 296 for at 
least one year, 2 806 received treatment for at least 2 years and 1 222 for 3 years. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: List of ADRs occurring in patients with RA receiving tocilizumab as monotherapy 
or in combination with MTX or other DMARDs in the double-blind controlled period or 
during postmarketing experience 
MedDRA  
System Organ  
Class 
Frequency categories with preferred terms 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Infections and 
infestations 
Upper respiratory 
tract infections 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Hypercholesterolaemia
* 
Diverticulitis 
Cellulitis,  
Pneumonia, 
Oral herpes simplex,  
Herpes zoster 
Leukopenia, 
Neutropenia, 
Hypofibrinogenaemia 
Anaphylaxis  
(fatal)1, 2 ,3 
Hypothyroidism 
Hypertriglyceridaemia 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Vascular  
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Headache,  
Dizziness 
Conjunctivitis 
Hypertension 
Cough, Dyspnoea 
Abdominal pain, 
Mouth ulceration, 
Gastritis 
Stomatitis, 
 Gastric ulcer 
Rash, Pruritus, 
Urticaria 
14 
Nephrolithiasis 
Treatment-
induced liver 
injury, 
Hepatitis, 
Jaundice, 
Very rare: 
Hepatic failure 
Stevens-
Johnson-
Syndrome3  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
MedDRA  
System Organ  
Class 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Frequency categories with preferred terms 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Peripheral 
oedema, 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Hepatic 
transaminases 
increased, 
Weight 
increased, Total 
bilirubin 
increased* 
* Includes elevations collected as part of routine laboratory monitoring (see text below) 
1 See section 4.3 
2 See section 4.4 
3 This adverse reaction was identified through post marketing surveillance but not observed in controlled clinical studies. 
The frequency category was estimated as the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval calculated on the basis of the 
total number of patients exposed to TCZ in clinical studies. 
Infections 
In the 6-month controlled studies the rate of all infections reported with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus 
DMARD treatment was 127 events per 100 patient years compared to 112 events per 100 patient 
years in the placebo plus DMARD group. In the long-term exposure population, the overall rate of 
infections with tocilizumab was 108 events per 100 patient years exposure. 
In 6-month controlled clinical studies, the rate of serious infections with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus 
DMARDs was 5.3 events per 100 patient years exposure compared to 3.9 events per 100 patient 
years exposure in the placebo plus DMARD group. In the monotherapy study the rate of serious 
infections was 3.6 events per 100 patient years of exposure in the tocilizumab group and 1.5 events 
per 100 patient years of exposure in the MTX group. 
In the long-term exposure population, the overall rate of serious infections (bacterial, viral and 
fungal) was 4.7 events per 100 patient years. Reported serious infections, some with fatal outcome, 
included active tuberculosis, which may present with intrapulmonary or extrapulmonary disease, 
invasive pulmonary infections, including candidiasis, aspergillosis, coccidioidomycosis and 
pneumocystis jirovecii, pneumonia, cellulitis, herpes zoster, gastroenteritis, diverticulitis, sepsis 
and bacterial arthritis. Cases of opportunistic infections have been reported. 
Interstitial Lung Disease 
Impaired lung function may increase the risk for developing infections. There have been post-
marketing reports of interstitial lung disease (including pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis), some 
of which had fatal outcomes. 
Gastrointestinal Perforation 
During the 6-month controlled clinical studies, the overall rate of gastrointestinal perforation was 
0.26 events per 100 patient years with tocilizumab therapy. In the long-term exposure population the 
overall rate of gastrointestinal perforation was 0.28 events per 100 patient years. Reports of 
gastrointestinal perforation on tocilizumab were primarily reported as complications of diverticulitis 
including generalised purulent peritonitis, lower gastrointestinal perforation, fistulae and abscess. 
15 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infusion Related reactions 
In the 6-month controlled studies adverse events associated with infusion (selected events occurring 
during or within 24 hours of infusion) were reported by 6.9% of patients in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg 
plus DMARD group and 5.1% of patients in the placebo plus DMARD group. Events reported 
during the infusion were primarily episodes of hypertension; events reported within 24 hours of 
finishing an infusion were headache and skin reactions (rash, urticaria). These events were not 
treatment limiting. 
The rate of anaphylactic reactions (occurring in a total of 8/4 009 patients, 0.2%) was several fold 
higher with the 4 mg/kg dose, compared to the 8 mg/kg dose. Clinically significant hypersensitivity 
reactions associated with tocilizumab and requiring treatment discontinuation were reported in a 
total of 56 out of 4 009 patients (1.4%) treated with tocilizumab during the controlled and open 
label clinical studies. These reactions were generally observed during the second to fifth infusions 
of tocilizumab (see section 4.4). Fatal anaphylaxis has been reported after marketing authorisation 
during treatment with tocilizumab (see section 4.4). 
Haematological abnormalities 
Neutrophils 
In the 6-month controlled studies decreases in neutrophil counts below 1 x 109/L occurred in 3.4% 
of patients on tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARDs compared to < 0.1% of patients on placebo plus 
DMARDs. Approximately half of the patients who developed an ANC < 1 x 109/L did so within 
8 weeks after starting therapy. Decreases below 0.5 x 109/L were reported in 0.3% patients 
receiving tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARDs. Infections with neutropenia have been reported. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence 
of decreases in neutrophil counts remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
clinical studies. 
Platelets 
In the 6-month controlled studies decreases in platelet counts below 100 x 103/μL occurred in 1.7% 
of patients on tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARDs compared to < 1% on placebo plus DMARDs. 
These decreases occurred without associated bleeding events. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence 
of decreases in platelet counts remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
clinical studies. 
Very rare reports of pancytopenia have occurred in the post marketing setting. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
During the 6-month controlled studies transient elevations in ALT/AST > 3 x ULN were observed 
in 2.1% of patients on tocilizumab 8 mg/kg compared to 4.9% of patients on MTX and in 6.5% of 
patients who received 8 mg/kg tocilizumab plus DMARDs compared to 1.5% of patients on 
placebo plus DMARDs. 
The addition of potentially hepatotoxic medicines (e.g. MTX) to tocilizumab monotherapy resulted 
in increased frequency of these elevations. Elevations of ALT/AST > 5 x ULN were observed in 
0.7% of tocilizumab monotherapy patients and 1.4% of tocilizumab plus DMARD patients, the 
majority of whom were discontinued permanently from tocilizumab treatment. During the double-
blind controlled period, the incidence of indirect bilirubin greater than the upper limit of normal, 
collected as a routine laboratory parameter, is 6.2% in patients treated with 8 mg/kg tocilizumab + 
DMARD. A total of 5.8% of patients experienced an elevation of indirect bilirubin of > 1 to 
2 x ULN and 0.4% had an elevation of > 2 x ULN. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence 
of elevation in ALT/AST remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
clinical studies. 
Lipid parameters 
During the 6-month controlled studies, increases of lipid parameters such as total cholesterol, 
triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, and/or HDL cholesterol have been reported commonly. With 
routine laboratory monitoring it was seen that approximately 24% of patients receiving tocilizumab 
in clinical studies experienced sustained elevations in total cholesterol ≥ 6.2 mmol/L, with 15% 
experiencing a sustained increase in LDL to ≥ 4.1 mmol/L. Elevations in lipid parameters 
responded to treatment with lipid-lowering agents. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence of 
elevations in lipid parameters remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
studies. 
Malignancies 
The clinical data are insufficient to assess the potential incidence of malignancy following exposure 
to tocilizumab. Long-term safety evaluations are ongoing. 
Skin Reactions 
Rare reports of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome have occurred in the post marketing setting. 
Patients with COVID-19  
The safety evaluation of tocilizumab in COVID-19 was based on 3 randomized, double-blind, 
placebo controlled studies (studies ML42528, WA42380, and WA42511). A total of 974 patients 
were exposed to tocilizumab in these studies. Collection of safety data from RECOVERY was 
limited and is not presented here.  
The following adverse reactions, listed by MedDRA system organ class in Table 2, have been 
adjudicated from events which occurred in at least 3% of tocilizumab treated patients and more 
commonly than that in patients on placebo in the pooled safety-evaluable population from clinical 
studies ML42528, WA42380, and WA42511. 
Table 2: List of adverse reactions1 identified from the pooled safety-evaluable population 
from tocilizumab clinical studies in COVID-19 patients2 
MedDRA System Organ 
Class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Urinary tract infection 
Hypokalaemia 
Anxiety, Insomnia 
Hypertension 
Constipation, Diarrhoea, Nausea 
Hepatic transaminases increased 
1 Patients are counted once for each category regardless of the number of reactions 
2 Includes adjudicated reactions reported in studies WA42511, WA42380 and ML42528 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse drug reactions  
Infections  
In the pooled safety-evaluable population from studies ML42528, WA42380, and WA42511, the 
rates of infection/serious infection events were balanced between COVID-19 patients receiving 
tocilizumab (30.3%/18.6%, n=974) versus placebo (32.1%/22.8%, n=483).  
The safety profile observed in the baseline systemic corticosteroids treatment group was consistent 
with the safety profile of tocilizumab from the overall population presented in Table 2. In this 
subgroup, infections and serious infections occurred in 27.8% and 18.1% of patients treated with 
intravenous tocilizumab and in 30.5% and 22.9% of patients treated with placebo, respectively.  
Laboratory Abnormalities  
The incidence of laboratory abnormalities was generally similar between patients with COVID-19 
who received one or two doses of tocilizumab-IV compared with those who received placebo in the 
randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled studies with few exceptions. Decreases in platelets 
and neutrophils and elevations of ALT and AST were more frequent among patients receiving 
tocilizumab-IV versus placebo (see section 4.2 and 4.4). 
sJIA and pJIA Patients 
The safety profile of tocilizumab in the pediatric population is summarized in the sections on pJIA 
and sJIA below. In general, the ADRs in pJIA and sJIA patients were similar in type to those seen 
in RA patients, see section 4.8. 
ADRs in the pJIA and sJIA patients treated with tocilizumab are listed in the Table 3 and presented 
by MedDRA system organ class. The corresponding frequency category for each ADR is based on 
the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) or uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pJIA 
pJIA, sJIA 
pJIA1, sJIA2 
pJIA 
pJIA 
sJIA 
sJIA 
Table 3: List of ADRs occurring in clinical study patients with sJIA or pJIA receiving 
tocilizumab as monotherapy or in combination with MTX. 
MedDRA SOC 
Preferred term (PT) 
Frequency 
Infections and Infestations 
Very common  Common 
Uncommon 
Upper Respiratory  
Tract Infections 
Nasopharyngitis 
pJIA, sJIA 
pJIA, sJIA 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
pJIA 
sJIA 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
Nausea 
Diarrhea 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Infusion related reactions 
Investigations 
Hepatic transaminases 
increased 
Decrease in neutrophil count 
Platelet count decreased 
Cholesterol increased 
sJIA 
pJIA 
pJIA 
1.  Infusion related reaction events in pJIA patients included but were not limited to headache, nausea and hypotension 
2.  Infusion related reaction events in sJIA patients included but were not limited to rash, urticaria, diarrhoea, 
epigastric discomfort, arthralgia and headache 
pJIA Patients 
The safety profile of intravenous tocilizumab in pJIA has been studied in 188 patients from 2 to 
17 years of age. The total patient exposure was 184.4 patient years. The frequency of ADRs in 
pJIA patients can be found in Table 3. The types of ADRs in pJIA patients were similar to those 
seen in RA and sJIA patients, see section 4.8. When compared to the adult RA population, events 
of nasopharyngitis, headache, nausea, and decreased neutrophil count were more frequently 
reported in the pJIA population. Events of cholesterol increased were less frequently reported in the 
pJIA population than in the adult RA population. 
Infections 
The rate of infections in the tocilizumab all exposure population was 163.7 per 100 patient years. The 
most common events observed were nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infections. The rate of 
serious infections was numerically higher in patients weighing < 30 kg treated with 10 mg/kg 
tocilizumab (12.2 per 100 patient years) compared to patients weighing ≥ 30 kg, treated with 8 mg/kg 
tocilizumab (4.0 per 100 patient years). The incidence of infections leading to dose interruptions was 
also numerically higher in patients weighing < 30 kg treated with 10 mg/kg tocilizumab (21.4%) 
compared to patients weighing ≥ 30 kg, treated with 8 mg/kg tocilizumab (7.6%). 
Infusion Related Reactions 
In pJIA patients, infusion related reactions are defined as all events occurring during or within 
24 hours of an infusion. In the tocilizumab all exposure population, 11 patients (5.9%) experienced 
infusion related reactions during the infusion and 38 patients (20.2%) experienced an event within 
24 hours of an infusion. The most common events occurring during infusion were headache, 
nausea and hypotension and within 24 hours of infusion were dizziness and hypotension. In 
general, the adverse drug reactions observed during or within 24 hours of an infusion were similar 
in nature to those seen in RA and sJIA patients, see section 4.8. 
No clinically significant hypersensitivity reactions associated with tocilizumab and requiring 
treatment discontinuation were reported. 
19 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neutrophils 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab all exposure population, a decrease in 
neutrophil count below 1 × 109/L occurred in 3.7% of patients. 
Platelets 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab all exposure population, 1% of patients 
had a decrease in platelet count to ≤ 50 × 103/µL without associated bleeding events. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab all exposure population, elevation in ALT 
or AST ≥ 3xULN occurred in 3.7% and < 1% of patients, respectively. 
Lipid parameters 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the intravenous tocilizumab study WA19977 3.4% and 
10.4% of patients experienced a post-baseline elevation of their LDL-cholesterol value to 
≥ 130 mg/dL and total cholesterol value to ≥ 200 mg/dL at any time during the study treatment, 
respectively. 
sJIA Patients 
The safety profile of intravenous tocilizumab in sJIA has been studied in 112 patients from 2 to 
17 years of age. In the 12 week double-blind, controlled phase, 75 patients received treatment with 
tocilizumab (8 mg/kg or 12 mg/kg based upon body weight). After 12 weeks or at the time of 
switching to tocilizumab, due to disease worsening, patients were treated in the open label 
extension phase. 
In general, the ADRs in sJIA patients were similar in type to those seen in RA patients, see section 
4.8. The frequency of ADRs in sJIA patients can be found in Table 3. When compared to the adult 
RA population, patients with sJIA experienced a higher frequency of nasopharyngitis, decrease in 
neutrophil counts, hepatic transaminases increased, and diarrhea. Events of cholesterol increased 
were less frequently reported in the sJIA population than in the adult RA population. 
Infections 
In the 12 week controlled phase, the rate of all infections in the intravenous tocilizumab group was 
344.7 per 100 patient years and 287.0 per 100 patient years in the placebo group. In the open label 
extension phase (Part II), the overall rate of infections remained similar at 306.6 per 100 patient 
years. 
In the 12 week controlled phase, the rate of serious infections in the intravenous tocilizumab group 
was 11.5 per 100 patient years. At one year in the open label extension phase the overall rate of 
serious infections remained stable at 11.3 per 100 patient years. Reported serious infections were 
similar to those seen in RA patients with the addition of varicella and otitis media. 
Infusion Related Reactions 
Infusion related reactions are defined as all events occurring during or within 24 hours of an 
infusion. In the 12 week controlled phase, 4% of patients from the tocilizumab group experienced 
events occurring during infusion. One event (angioedema) was considered serious and life-
threatening, and the patient was discontinued from study treatment. 
In the 12 week controlled phase, 16% of patients in the tocilizumab group and 5.4% of patients in 
the placebo group experienced an event within 24 hours of infusion. In the tocilizumab group, the 
events included, but were not limited to rash, urticaria, diarrhea, epigastric discomfort, arthralgia 
and headache. One of these events, urticaria, was considered serious. 
Clinically significant hypersensitivity reactions associated with tocilizumab and requiring treatment 
discontinuation, were reported in 1 out of 112 patients (< 1%) treated with tocilizumab during the 
controlled and up to and including the open label clinical study. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neutrophils 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the 12 week controlled phase, a decrease in neutrophil 
counts below 1 x 109/L occurred in 7% of patients in the tocilizumab group, and no decreases in the 
placebo group. 
In the open label extension phase, decreases in neutrophil counts below 1 x 109/L, occurred in 15% 
of the tocilizumab group. 
Platelets 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the 12 week controlled phase, 3% of patients in the 
placebo group and 1% in the tocilizumab group had a decrease in platelet count to ≤ 100 x 103/μL. 
In the open label extension phase, decreases in platelet counts below 100 x 103/μL, occurred in 3% 
of patients in the tocilizumab group, without associated bleeding events. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the 12 week controlled phase, elevation in ALT or AST 
≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 5% and 3% of patients, respectively, in the tocilizumab group, and 0% in 
the placebo group. 
In the open label extension phase, elevation in ALT or AST ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 12% and 4% of 
patients, respectively, in the tocilizumab group. 
Immunoglobulin G 
IgG levels decrease during therapy. A decrease to the lower limit of normal occurred in 15 patients 
at some point in the study. 
Lipid parameters 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the 12 week controlled phase (study WA18221), 13.4% 
and 33.3% of patients experienced a post-baseline elevation of their LDL-cholesterol value to 
≥ 130 mg/dL and total cholesterol value to ≥ 200 mg/dL at any time during study treatment, 
respectively. 
In the open label extension phase (study WA18221), 13.2% and 27.7% of patients experienced a 
post- baseline elevation of their LDL-cholesterol value to ≥ 130 mg/dL and total cholesterol value 
to ≥ 200 mg/dL at any time during study treatment, respectively. 
CRS Patients  
The safety of tocilizumab in CRS has been evaluated in a retrospective analysis of data from 
clinical studies, where 51 patients were treated with intravenous tocilizumab 8 mg/kg (12 mg/kg 
for patients less than 30 kg) with or without additional high-dose corticosteroids for severe or life-
threatening CAR T-cell-induced CRS. A median of 1 dose of tocilizumab (range, 1-4 doses) was 
administered. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-tocilizumab antibodies may develop during tocilizumab treatment. Correlation of antibody 
development to clinical response or adverse events may be observed. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorization of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9 Overdose 
There are limited data available on overdose with tocilizumab. One case of accidental overdose 
was reported in which a patient with multiple myeloma received a single dose of 40 mg/kg. No 
adverse reactions were observed. 
No serious adverse reactions were observed in healthy volunteers who received a single dose of 
tocilizumab up to 28 mg/kg, although dose limiting neutropenia was observed. 
Paediatric population  
No case of an overdose in the paediatric population has been observed. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Interleukin inhibitors; ATC code: L04AC07. 
Tyenne is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the European 
Medicines Agency website; http://www.ema.europa.eu 
Mechanism of action 
Tocilizumab binds specifically to both soluble and membrane-bound IL-6 receptors (sIL-6R and 
mIL-6R). Tocilizumab has been shown to inhibit sIL-6R and mIL-6R-mediated signalling. IL-6 is a 
pleiotropic pro-inflammatory cytokine produced by a variety of cell types including T- and B-cells, 
monocytes and fibroblasts. IL-6 is involved in diverse physiological processes such as T-cell 
activation, induction of immunoglobulin secretion, induction of hepatic acute phase protein 
synthesis and stimulation of haemopoiesis. IL-6 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diseases 
including inflammatory diseases, osteoporosis and neoplasia. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
In clinical studies with RA patients treated with tocilizumab, rapid decreases in CRP, erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate (ESR), serum amyloid A (SAA) and fibrinogen were observed. Consistent with 
the effect on acute phase reactants, treatment with tocilizumab was associated with reduction in 
platelet count within the normal range. Increases in haemoglobin levels were observed, through 
tocilizumab decreasing the IL-6 driven effects on hepcidin production to increase iron availability. 
In tocilizumab-treated patients, decreases in the levels of CRP to within normal ranges were seen 
as early as week 2, with decreases maintained while on treatment. 
In healthy subjects administered tocilizumab in doses from 2 to 28 mg/kg, absolute neutrophil 
counts decreased to their lowest 3 to 5 days following administration. Thereafter, neutrophils 
recovered towards baseline in a dose dependent manner. Rheumatoid arthritis patients demonstrated 
a similar pattern of absolute neutrophil counts following tocilizumab administration (see section 
4.8). 
In COVID-19 patients with one dose of tocilizumab 8 mg/kg administered intravenously, decreases 
in the levels of CRP to within normal ranges were seen as early as Day 7. 
RA Patients 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of tocilizumab in alleviating the signs and symptoms of RA was assessed in five 
randomised, double-blind, multi-centre studies. Studies I-V enrolled patients ≥ 18 years of age with 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
active RA diagnosed according to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria and who 
had at least eight tender and six swollen joints at baseline. 
In Study I, tocilizumab was administered intravenously every four weeks as monotherapy. In 
Studies II, III and V, tocilizumab was administered intravenously every four weeks in combination 
with MTX vs. placebo and MTX. In Study IV, tocilizumab was administered intravenously every 
4 weeks in combination with other DMARDs vs. placebo and other DMARDs. The primary 
endpoint for each of the five studies was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR 20 
response at week 24. 
Study I evaluated 673 patients who had not been treated with MTX within six months prior to 
randomisation and who had not discontinued previous MTX treatment as a result of clinically 
important toxic effects or lack of response. The majority (67%) of patients were MTX-naïve. Doses 
of 8 mg/kg of tocilizumab were given every four weeks as monotherapy. The comparator group 
was weekly MTX (dose titrated from 7.5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg weekly over an eight week 
period). 
Study II, a two year study with planned analyses at week 24, week 52 and week 104, evaluated 1196 
patients who had an inadequate clinical response to MTX. Doses of 4 or 8 mg/kg of tocilizumab or 
placebo were given every four weeks as blinded therapy for 52 weeks in combination with stable 
MTX (10 mg to 25 mg weekly). After week 52, all patients could receive open-label treatment with 
tocilizumab 8 mg/kg. Of the patients who completed the study who were originally randomised to 
placebo + MTX, 86% received open-label tocilizumab 8 mg/kg in year 2. The primary endpoint at 
week 24 was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response. At week 52 and 
week 104 the co-primary endpoints were prevention of joint damage and improvement in physical 
function. 
Study III evaluated 623 patients who had an inadequate clinical response to MTX. Doses of 4 or 
8 mg/kg tocilizumab or placebo were given every four weeks, in combination with stable MTX 
(10 mg to 25 mg weekly). 
Study IV evaluated 1 220 patients who had an inadequate response to their existing rheumatologic 
therapy, including one or more DMARDs. Doses of 8 mg/kg tocilizumab or placebo were given 
every four weeks in combination with stable DMARDs. 
Study V evaluated 499 patients who had an inadequate clinical response or were intolerant to one 
or more TNF antagonist therapies. The TNF antagonist therapy was discontinued prior to 
randomisation. Doses of 4 or 8 mg/kg tocilizumab or placebo were given every four weeks in 
combination with stable MTX (10 mg to 25 mg weekly). 
Clinical response 
In all studies, patients treated with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg had statistically significant higher ACR 20, 
50, 70 response rates at 6 months compared to control (Table 4). In study I, superiority of 
tocilizumab 8 mg/kg was demonstrated against the active comparator MTX. 
The treatment effect was similar in patients independent of rheumatoid factor status, age, gender, 
race, number of prior treatments or disease status. Time to onset was rapid (as early as week 2) and 
the magnitude of response continued to improve with duration of treatment. Continued durable 
responses were seen for over 3 years in the open label extension studies I-V. 
In patients treated with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg, significant improvements were noted on all individual 
components of the ACR response including: tender and swollen joint counts; patients and physician 
global assessment; disability index scores; pain assessment and CRP compared to patients 
receiving placebo plus MTX or other DMARDs in all studies. 
Patients in studies I – V had a mean Disease Activity Score (DAS28) of 6.5–6.8 at baseline. 
Significant reduction in DAS28 from baseline (mean improvement) of 3.1–3.4 were observed in 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tocilizumab-treated patients compared to control patients (1.3-2.1). The proportion of patients 
achieving a DAS28 clinical remission (DAS28 < 2.6) was significantly higher in patients receiving 
tocilizumab (28–34%) compared to 1–12% of control patients at 24 weeks. In study II, 65% of 
patients achieved a DAS28 < 2.6 at week 104 compared to 48% at 52 weeks and 33% of patients at 
week 24. 
In a pooled analysis of studies II, III and IV, the proportion of patients achieving an ACR 20, 50 
and 70 response was significantly higher (59% vs. 50%, 37% vs. 27%, 18% vs. 11%, respectively) 
in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARD vs. the tocilizumab 4 mg/kg plus DMARD group 
(p< 0.03). Similarly the proportion of patients achieving a DAS28 remission (DAS28 < 2.6) was 
significantly higher (31% vs. 16% respectively) in patients receiving tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus 
DMARD than in patients receiving tocilizumab 4 mg/kg plus DMARD (p<0.0001). 
Table 4: ACR responses in placebo-/MTX-/DMARDs-controlled studies (% patients) 
Study I  
AMBITION 
Study II  
LITHE 
Week  TCZ 
MTX  TCZ 
8 mg/kg 
8 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
PBO 
+ MTX 
Study III  
OPTION 
TCZ 
8 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
PBO 
+ MTX 
Study IV  
TOWARD 
TCZ  
8 mg/kg  
+ 
DMARD 
PBO + 
DMARD 
Study V  
RADIATE 
TCZ 
8 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
PBO +  
MTX 
N =398  N =393  N =205  N =204  N =803  N =413  N =170  N =158 
N=286 
N 
=284 
ACR 20 
70%***  52%  56%***  27%  59%***  26% 
56%***  25% 
61%*** 
24% 
50%***  10% 
44%**  33%  32%***  10%  44%***  11% 
36%***  10% 
38%*** 
9% 
29%*** 
4% 
ACR 50 
28%**  15%  13%*** 
20%*** 
2% 
4% 
ACR 70 
22%*** 
2% 
21%*** 
3% 
12%** 
1% 
- Tocilizumab 
- Methotrexate 
- Placebo 
- Disease modifying anti-rheumatic drug 
- p< 0.01, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX/DMARD 
- p< 0.0001, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX/DMARD 
24 
52 
24 
52 
24 
52 
TCZ 
MTX 
PBO 
DMARD 
** 
*** 
Major Clinical Response 
After 2 years of treatment with tocilizumab plus MTX, 14% of patients achieved a major clinical 
response (maintenance of an ACR70 response for 24 weeks or more). 
Radiographic response 
In Study II, in patients with an inadequate response to MTX, inhibition of structural joint damage 
was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in modified Sharp score and its 
components, the erosion score and joint space narrowing score. Inhibition of joint structural 
damage was shown with significantly less radiographic progression in patients receiving 
tocilizumab compared to control (Table 5). 
In the open-label extension of Study II the inhibition of progression of structural joint damage in 
tocilizumab plus MTX-treated patients was maintained in the second year of treatment. The mean 
change from baseline at week 104 in total Sharp-Genant score was significantly lower for patients 
randomised to tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus MTX (p < 0.0001) compared with patients who were 
randomised to placebo plus MTX. 
24 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Radiographic mean changes over 52 weeks in Study II 
PBO + MTX 
(+ TCZ from week 24) 
N = 393 
1.13 
0.71 
0.42 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX  
N = 398 
0.29* 
0.17* 
0.12** 
Total Sharp-Genant score 
Erosion score 
JSN score 
PBO 
MTX 
TCZ 
JSN 
* 
** 
- Placebo 
- Methotrexate 
- Tocilizumab 
- Joint space narrowing 
- p≤ 0.0001, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX 
- p< 0.005, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX 
Following 1 year of treatment with tocilizumab plus MTX, 85% of patients (n=348) had no 
progression of structural joint damage, as defined by a change in the Total Sharp Score of zero or 
less, compared with 67% of placebo plus MTX-treated patients (n=290) (p ≤ 0.001). This remained 
consistent following 2 years of treatment (83%; n=353). Ninety three percent (93%; n=271) of 
patients had no progression between week 52 and week 104. 
Health-related and quality of life outcomes 
Tocilizumab-treated patients reported an improvement in all patient-reported outcomes (Health 
Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index - HAQ-DI), Short Form-36 and Functional Assessment 
of Chronic Illness Therapy questionnaires. Statistically significant improvements in HAQ-DI 
scores were observed in patients treated with tocilizumab compared with patients treated with 
DMARDs. During the open-label period of Study II, the improvement in physical function has 
been maintained for up to 2 years. At Week 52, the mean change in HAQ-DI was -0.58 in the 
tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus MTX group compared with -0.39 in the placebo + MTX group. The 
mean change in HAQ-DI was maintained at Week 104 in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus MTX group 
(- 0.61). 
Haemoglobin levels 
Statistically significant improvements in haemoglobin levels were observed with tocilizumab 
compared with DMARDs (p < 0.0001) at week 24. Mean haemoglobin levels increased by week 2 
and remained within normal range through to week 24. 
Tocilizumab versus adalimumab in monotherapy 
Study VI (WA19924), a 24 week double-blinded study that compared tocilizumab monotherapy 
with adalimumab monotherapy, evaluated 326 patients with RA who were intolerant of MTX or 
where continued treatment with MTX was considered inappropriate (including MTX inadequate 
responders). Patients in the tocilizumab arm received an intravenous infusion of tocilizumab 
(8 mg/kg) every 4 weeks (q4w) and a subcutaneous placebo injection every 2 weeks (q2w). 
Patients in the adalimumab arm received an adalimumab subcutaneous injection (40 mg) q2w plus 
an intravenous placebo infusion q4w. A statistically significant superior treatment effect was seen 
in favour of tocilizumab over adalimumab in control of disease activity from baseline to week 24 
for the primary endpoint of change in DAS28 and for all secondary endpoints (Table 6). 
25 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Efficacy results for study VI (WA19924) 
ADA + 
Placebo(IV) N = 
TCZ + Placebo (SC)  
N = 163 
p-value(a) 
Primary Endpoint - Mean Change from baseline at Week 24 
DAS28 (adjusted mean) 
  -1.8 
-3.3 
Difference in adjusted mean (95% CI) 
-1.5 (-1.8, -1.1) 
<0.0001 
Secondary Endpoints - Percentage of Responders at Week 24 (b) 
DAS28 < 2.6, n (%) 
DAS28 ≤ 3.2, n (%) 
ACR20 response, n (%) 
ACR50 response, n (%) 
17 (10.5) 
32 (19.8) 
80 (49.4) 
45 (27.8) 
65 (39.9) 
84 (51.5) 
106 (65.0) 
77 (47.2) 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
0.0038 
0.0002 
ACR70 response, n (%) 
0.0023 
a p value is adjusted for region and duration of RA for all endpoints and additionally baseline value for all continuous 
endpoints. 
b Non-responder Imputation used for missing data. Multiplicity controlled using Bonferroni-Holm Procedure 
29 (17.9) 
53 (32.5) 
The overall clinical adverse event profile was similar between tocilizumab and adalimumab. The 
proportion of patients with serious adverse events was balanced between the treatment groups 
(tocilizumab 11.7% vs. adalimumab 9.9%). The types of adverse drug reactions in the tocilizumab 
arm were consistent with the known safety profile of tocilizumab and adverse drug reactions were 
reported at a similar frequency compared with Table 1. A higher incidence of infections and 
infestations was reported in the tocilizumab arm (48% vs. 42%), with no difference in the incidence 
of serious infections (3.1%). Both study treatments induced the same pattern of changes in 
laboratory safety parameters (decreases in neutrophil and platelet counts, increases in ALT, AST 
and lipids), however, the magnitude of change and the frequency of marked abnormalities was 
higher with tocilizumab compared with adalimumab. Four (2.5%) patients in the tocilizumab arm 
and two (1.2%) patients in the adalimumab arm experienced CTC grade 3 or 4 neutrophil count 
decreases. Eleven (6.8%) patients in the tocilizumab arm and five (3.1%) patients in the 
adalimumab arm experienced ALT increases of CTC grade 2 or higher. The mean LDL increase 
from baseline was 0.64 mmol/L (25 mg/dL) for patients in the tocilizumab arm and 0.19 mmol/L 
(7 mg/dL) for patients in the adalimumab arm. The safety observed in the tocilizumab arm was 
consistent with the known safety profile of tocilizumab and no new or unexpected adverse drug 
reactions were observed (see Table 1). 
MTX naïve, Early RA 
Study VII (WA19926), a 2 year study with the planned primary analysis at week 52 evaluated 1162 
MTX-naïve adult patients with moderate to severe, active early RA (mean disease duration 
≤ 6 months). Approximately 20% of patients had received prior treatment with DMARDs other 
than MTX. This study evaluated the efficacy of intravenous tocilizumab 4 or 8 mg/kg every 
4 weeks/MTX combination therapy, intravenous tocilizumab 8 mg/kg monotherapy and MTX 
monotherapy in reducing the signs and symptoms and rate of progression of joint damage for 
104 weeks. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients achieving DAS28 remission 
(DAS28 < 2.6) at week 24. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg 
+ MTX and tocilizumab monotherapy groups met the primary endpoint compared with MTX 
alone. The tocilizumab 8 mg/kg + MTX group also showed statistically significant results across 
the key secondary endpoints. Numerically greater responses compared with MTX alone were 
observed in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg monotherapy group in all secondary endpoints, including 
radiographic endpoints. In this study, ACR/EULAR remission (Boolean and Index) were also 
analysed as pre-specified exploratory endpoints, with higher responses observed in the tocilizumab 
groups. The results from study VII are shown in Table 7. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Efficacy results for study VII (WA19926) on MTX-naïve, early RA patients 
TCZ 8 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
N=290 
TCZ 8 mg/kg 
+ placebo 
N=292 
TCZ 
4 mg/kg + 
MTX 
N=288 
Placebo + 
MTX 
N=287 
Primary Endpoint 
n (%) 
130 (44.8)*** 
113 (38.7)*** 
92 (31.9) 
43 (15.0) 
Key Secondary Endpoints 
DAS28 Remission 
Week 24 
DAS 28 remission 
Week 52 
n (%) 
 142 (49.0)*** 
115 (39.4) 
98 (34.0) 
56 (19.5) 
ACR 
Week 24 
ACR20, n (%) 
216 (74.5)* 
205 (70.2) 
212 (73.6) 
187 (65.2) 
ACR50, n (%) 
165 (56.9)** 
139 (47.6) 
138 (47.9) 
124 (43.2) 
ACR70, n (%) 
112 (38.6)** 
88 (30.1) 
100 (34.7) 
73 (25.4) 
Week 52 
ACR20, n (%) 
195 (67.2)* 
184 (63.0) 
181 (62.8) 
164 (57.1) 
ACR50, n (%) 
162 (55.9)** 
144 (49.3) 
151 (52.4) 
117 (40.8) 
ACR70, n (%) 
125 (43.1)** 
105 (36.0) 
107 (37.2) 
83 (28.9) 
HAQ-DI (adjusted mean change from baseline) 
          Week 52 
- 0.81*  
-0.67 
-0.75 
-0.64 
Radiographic Endpoints (mean change from baseline) 
              Week 52 
0.08*** 
Erosion Score 
0.05**   
JSN 
0.03 
0.26 
0.15 
0.11 
0.42 
0.25 
0.17 
1.14 
0.63 
0.51 
Radiographic Non-Progression n (%) 
(change from baseline in mTSS of ≤0) 
226 (83)‡ 
226 (82)‡ 
211 (79) 
194 (73) 
Exploratory Endpoints 
Week 24:   ACR/EULAR Boolean 
Remission, n (%) 
47 (18.4) ‡ 
38 (14.2) 
43 (16.7) ‡ 
25 (10.0) 
ACR/EULAR Index Remission, n (%) 
73 (28.5) ‡ 
60 (22.6) 
58 (22.6) 
41 (16.4) 
Week 52: ACR/EULAR Boolean 
Remission, n (%) 
59 (25.7) ‡ 
43 (18.7) 
48 (21.1) 
34 (15.5) 
ACR/EULAR Index Remission, n (%) 
mTSS- modified Total Sharp Score 
JSN- Joint space narrowing 
All efficacy comparisons vs Placebo + MTX. ***p≤0.0001; **p<0.001; *p<0.05; 
‡p-value < 0.05 vs. Placebo + MTX, but endpoint was exploratory (not included in the hierarchy of statistical testing and has 
therefore not been controlled for multiplicity) 
83 (36.1) ‡ 
49 (22.4) 
66 (29.3) 
69 (30.0) 
27 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
COVID-19  
Clinical Efficacy  
RECOVERY (Randomised Evaluation of COVID-19 Therapy) Collaborative Group Study in 
Hospitalized Adults Diagnosed with COVID-19  
RECOVERY was a large, randomized, controlled, open-label, multi-center platform study conducted 
in the United Kingdom to evaluate the efficacy and safety of potential treatments in hospitalized adult 
patients with severe COVID-19. All eligible patients received usual care and underwent an initial  
(main) randomization. Eligible patients for the study had clinically suspected or laboratory-confirmed 
SARS-CoV-2 infection and no medical contraindications to any of the treatments. Patients with 
clinical evidence of progressive COVID-19 (defined as oxygen saturation  < 92% on room air or 
receiving oxygen therapy, and CRP  ≥ 75 mg/L) qualified for a second randomization to receive either 
intravenous tocilizumab or usual care alone.  
Efficacy analyses were performed in the intent-to-treat (ITT) population comprising 4116 patients who 
were randomized with 2 022 patients in the tocilizumab + usual care arm and 2 094 patients in the 
usual care alone arm. The baseline demographic and disease characteristics of the ITT population were 
well balanced across treatment arms. The mean age of participants was 63.6 years (standard deviation 
[SD] 13.6 years). The majority of patients were male (67%) and White (76%). The median (range) 
level of CRP was 143 mg/L (75-982).  
At baseline, 0.2% (n=9) of patients were not on supplemental oxygen, 45% of patients required low 
flow oxygen, 41% of patients required non-invasive ventilation or high-flow oxygen and 14% of 
patients required invasive mechanical ventilation; 82% were reported receiving systemic 
corticosteroids (defined as patients who initiated treatment with systemic corticosteroids either prior to 
or at the time of randomization). The most common comorbidities were diabetes (28.4%), heart 
disease (22.6%) and chronic lung disease (23.3%).  
The primary outcome was time to death through Day 28. The hazard ratio comparing the tocilizumab 
+ usual care arm to the usual care alone arm was 0.85 (95% CI: 0.76 to 0.94), a statistically significant 
result (p=0.0028). The probabilities of dying by Day 28 were estimated to be 30.7% and 34.9% in the 
tocilizumab and usual care arms, respectively. The risk difference was estimated to be -4.1% (95% CI: 
-7.0% to -1.3%), consistent with the primary analysis. The hazard ratio among the pre-specified 
subgroup of patients receiving systemic corticosteroids at baseline was 0.79 (95% CI: 0.70 to 0.89), 
and for the pre-specified subgroup not receiving systemic corticosteroids at baseline was 1.16 (95% 
CI: 0.91 to 1.48).  
The median time to hospital discharge was 19 days in the tocilizumab + usual care arm and > 28 days 
in the usual care arm (hazard ratio [95% CI] = 1.22 [1.12 to 1.33]).  
Among patients not requiring invasive mechanical ventilation at baseline, the proportion of patients 
who required mechanical ventilation or died by Day 28 was 35% (619/1754) in the tocilizumab + 
usual care arm and 42% (754/1800) in the usual care alone arm (risk ratio [95% CI] = 0.84, [0.77 to 
0.92] p<0.0001). 
Paediatric population 
sJIA Patients 
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of tocilizumab for the treatment of active sJIA was assessed in a 12 week randomised, 
double blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group, two arm study. Patients included in the study had 
a total disease duration of at least 6 months and active disease but were not experiencing an acute 
flare requiring corticosteroid doses of more than 0.5 mg/kg prednisone equivalent. Efficacy for the 
treatment of macrophage activation syndrome has not been investigated. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients (treated with or without MTX) were randomised (tocilizumab:placebo = 2:1) to one of two 
treatment groups, 75 patients received tocilizumab infusions every two weeks, either 8 mg/kg for 
patients ≥  30 kg or 12 mg/kg for patients <  30 kg and 37 patients were assigned to receiving 
placebo infusions every two weeks. Corticosteroid tapering was permitted from week six for 
patients who achieved a JIA ACR70 response. After 12 weeks or at the time of escape, due to 
disease worsening, patients were treated in the open label phase at weight appropriate dosing. 
Clinical response 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with at least 30% improvement in the JIA 
ACR core set (JIA ACR30 response) at week 12 and absence of fever (no temperature recording 
≥ 37.5°C in the preceding 7 days). Eighty five percent (64/75) of tocilizumab treated patients and 
24.3% (9/37) of placebo treated patients achieved this endpoint. These proportions were highly 
significantly different (p<0.0001). 
The percent of patients achieving JIA ACR 30, 50, 70 and 90 responses are shown in Table 8.  
Table 8: JIA ACR response rates at week 12 (% patients) 
Response Rate 
JIA ACR 30 
JIA ACR 50 
JIA ACR 70 
JIA ACR 90 
1p<0.0001, tocilizumab vs. placebo 
Tocilizumab  
N = 75 
90.7%1 
85.3%1 
70.7%1 
37.3%1 
Placebo  
N = 37 
24.3% 
10.8% 
8.1% 
5.4% 
Systemic Effects 
In the tocilizumab treated patients, 85% who had fever due to sJIA at baseline were free of fever 
(no temperature recording ≥ 37.5°C in the preceding 14 days) at week 12 versus 21% of placebo 
patients (p<0.0001). 
The adjusted mean change in the pain VAS after 12 weeks of tocilizumab treatment was a 
reduction of 41 points on a scale of 0 - 100 compared to a reduction of 1 for placebo patients 
(p<0.0001). 
Corticosteroid Tapering 
Patients achieving a JIA ACR70 response were permitted corticosteroid dose reduction. Seventeen 
(24%) tocilizumab treated patients versus 1 (3%) placebo patient were able to reduce their dose of 
corticosteroid by at least 20% without experiencing a subsequent JIA ACR30 flare or occurrence of 
systemic symptoms to week 12 (p=0.028). Reductions in corticosteroids continued, with 
44 patients off oral corticosteroids at week 44, while maintaining JIA ACR responses. 
Health related and quality of life outcomes 
At week 12, the proportion of tocilizumab treated patients showing a minimally clinically 
important improvement in the Childhood Health Assessment Questionnaire – Disability Index 
(defined as an individual total score decrease of ≥ 0.13) was significantly higher than in placebo 
treated patients, 77% versus 19% (p<0.0001). 
Laboratory Parameters 
Fifty out of seventy five (67%) tocilizumab treated patients had a haemoglobin < LLN at baseline. 
Forty (80%) of these patients had an increase in their haemoglobin to within the normal range at 
week 12, in comparison to 2 out of 29 (7%) of placebo treated patients with haemoglobin < LLN at 
baseline (p<0.0001). 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pJIA Patients 
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of tocilizumab was assessed in a three-part study WA19977 including an open-label 
extension in children with active pJIA. Part I consisted of a 16-week active tocilizumab treatment 
lead-in period (n=188) followed by Part II, a 24-week randomized double-blind placebo-controlled 
withdrawal period (n=163), followed by Part III, a 64-week open-label period. In Part 1, eligible 
patients ≥ 30 kg received tocilizumab at 8 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks for 4 doses. Patients 
< 30 kg were randomized 1:1 to receive either tocilizumab 8 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg intravenously 
every 4 weeks for 4 doses. Patients who completed Part I of the study and achieved at least a JIA 
ACR30 response at week 16 compared to baseline were eligible to enter the blinded withdrawal 
period (Part II) of the study. In Part II, patients were randomized to tocilizumab (same dose 
received in Part I) or placebo in a 1:1 ratio, stratified by concurrent MTX use and concurrent 
corticosteroid use. Each patient continued in Part II of the study until Week 40 or until the patient 
satisfied JIA ACR30 flare criteria (relative to Week 16) and qualified for escape to tocilizumab 
therapy (same dose received in Part I). 
Clinical response 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with a JIA ACR30 flare at week 40 relative to 
week 16. Forty eight percent (48.1%, 39/81) of the patients treated with placebo flared compared 
with 25.6% (21/82) of tocilizumab treated patients. These proportions were statistically 
significantly different (p=0.0024). 
At the conclusion of Part I, JIA ACR 30/50/70/90 responses were 89.4%, 83.0%, 62.2%, and 
26.1%, respectively. 
During the withdrawal phase (Part II), the percentage of patients achieving JIA ACR 30, 50, and 70 
responses at Week 40 relative to baseline are shown in Table 9. In this statistical analysis, patients 
who flared (and escaped to TCZ) during Part II or who withdrew, were classified as non-
responders. An additional analyses of JIA ACR responses, considering observed data at Week 40, 
regardless of flare status, showed that by Week 40, 95.1% of patients who had received continuous 
TCZ therapy, had achieved JIA ACR30 or higher. 
Table 9: JIA ACR response rates at Week 40 relative to baseline (percentage of patients) 
Response Rate 
ACR 30 
ACR 50 
ACR 70 
* p<0.01, tocilizumab vs. placebo 
Tocilizumab  
N=82 
74.4%* 
73.2%* 
64.6%* 
Placebo  
N=81 
54.3%* 
51.9%* 
42.0%* 
The number of active joints was significantly reduced compared to baseline in patients receiving 
tocilizumab compared to placebo (adjusted mean changes of -14.3 vs -11.4, p=0.0435). The 
physician’s global assessment of disease activity, as measured on a 0-100 mm scale, showed a 
greater reduction in disease activity for tocilizumab compared to placebo (adjusted mean changes 
of -45.2 mm vs -35.2 mm, p=0.0031). 
The adjusted mean change in the pain VAS after 40 weeks of tocilizumab treatment was 32.4 mm 
on a 0-100 mm scale compared to a reduction of 22.3 mm for placebo patients (highly statistically 
significant; p=0.0076). 
The ACR response rates were numerically lower for patients with prior biologic treatment as 
shown in Table 10 below. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Number and proportion of patients with a JIA ACR30 flare and proportion of 
patients with JIA ACR30/50/70/90 responses at Week 40, by previous biologic use 
(ITT population - study part II) 
Biologic Use 
JIA ACR30 Flare 
JIA ACR30 Response 
JIA ACR50 Response 
JIA ACR70 Response 
JIA ACR90 Response 
Placebo 
All TCZ 
Yes (N = 23) 
No (N = 58) 
Yes (N = 27) 
No (N = 55) 
18 (78.3) 
6 (26.1) 
5 (21.7) 
2 (8.7) 
2 (8.7) 
21 (36.2) 
38 (65.5) 
37 (63.8) 
32 (55.2) 
17 (29.3) 
12 (44.4) 
15 (55.6) 
14 (51.9) 
13 (48.1) 
5 (18.5) 
9 (16.4) 
46 (83.6) 
46 (83.6) 
40 (72.7) 
32 (58.2) 
Patients randomized to tocilizumab had fewer ACR30 flares and higher overall ACR responses 
than patients receiving placebo regardless of a history of prior biologic use. 
CRS 
The efficacy of tocilizumab for the treatment of CRS was assessed in a retrospective analysis of 
data from clinical studies of CAR T-cell therapies (tisagenlecleucel and axicabtagene ciloleucel) 
for haematological malignancies. Evaluable patients had been treated with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg 
(12 mg/kg for patients < 30 kg) with or without additional high-dose corticosteroids for severe or 
life-threatening CRS; only the first episode of CRS was included in the analysis. The efficacy 
population for the tisagenlecleucel cohort included 28 males and 23 females (total 51 patients) of 
median age 17 years (range, 3–68 years). The median time from start of CRS to first dose of 
tocilizumab was 3 days (range, 0–18 days). Resolution of CRS was defined as lack of fever and off 
vasopressors for at least 24 hours. Patients were considered responders if CRS resolved within 
14 days of the first dose of tocilizumab, if no more than 2 doses of tocilizumab were needed, and 
no medicines other than tocilizumab and corticosteroids were used for treatment. Thirty-nine 
patients (76.5%; 95% CI: 62.5%–87.2%) achieved a response. In an independent cohort of 
15 patients (range: 9–75 years old) with axicabtagene ciloleucel-induced CRS, 53% responded. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
tocilizumab in all subsets of the paediatric population in treatment of cytokine release syndrome 
associated with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy. 
COVID-19  
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with  
tocilizumab in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of COVID-19. 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties  
Intravenous use  
RA Patients 
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab were determined using a population pharmacokinetic analysis 
on a database composed of 3 552 RA patients treated with a one-hour infusion of 4 or 8 mg/kg 
tocilizumab every 4 weeks for 24 weeks or with 162 mg tocilizumab given subcutaneously either 
once a week or every other week for 24 weeks. 
The following parameters (predicted mean ± SD) were estimated for a dose of 8 mg/kg tocilizumab 
given every 4 weeks: steady-state area under curve (AUC) = 38 000 ± 13 000 h μg/mL, trough 
concentration (Cmin) = 15.9 ± 13.1 μg/mL and maximum concentration (Cmax) = 182 ± 50.4 μg/mL, 
31 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the accumulation ratios for AUC and Cmax were small, 1.32 and 1.09, respectively. The 
accumulation ratio was higher for Cmin (2.49), which was expected based on the non-linear clearance 
contribution at lower concentrations. Steady-state was reached following the first administration for 
Cmax and after 8 and 20 weeks for AUC and Cmin, respectively. Tocilizumab AUC, Cmin and 
Cmax increased with increase of body weight. At body weight ≥ 100 kg, the predicted mean (± SD) 
 and Cmax of tocilizumab were 50 000 ± 16 800 μg•h/mL, 24.4 ± 17.5 μg/mL, 
steady-state AUC, Cmin
and 226 ± 50.3 μg/mL, respectively, which are higher than mean exposure values for the patient 
population (i.e. all body weights) reported above. The dose-response curve for tocilizumab flattens at 
higher exposure, resulting in smaller efficacy gains for each incremental increase in tocilizumab 
concentration such that clinically meaningful increases in efficacy were not demonstrated in 
patients treated with > 800 mg of tocilizumab. Therefore, tocilizumab doses exceeding 800 mg per 
infusion are not recommended (see section 4.2). 
COVID-19 Patients  
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab was characterized using a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis of a database composed of 380 adult COVID-19 patients in Study WA42380 
(COVACTA) and Study CA42481 (MARIPOSA) that treated with a single infusion of 8 mg/kg 
tocilizumab or two infusions separated by at least 8 hours. The following parameters (predicted 
mean + SD) were estimated for a dose of 8 mg/kg tocilizumab: area under curve over 28 days 
(AUC0-28) = 18 312 (5 184) hour•μg/mL, concentration at Day 28 (Cday28) = 0.934 (1.93) μg/mL 
and maximum concentration (Cmax) = 154 (34.9) μg/mL. The AUC0-28, Cday28 and Cmax, following 
two doses of 8 mg/kg tocilizumab separated by 8 hours, were also estimated (predicted mean + 
SD): 42 240 (11 520) hour μg/mL and 8.94 (8.5) μg/mL, and 296 (64.7) μg/mL respectively. 
Distribution  
In RA patients the central volume of distribution was 3.72 L, the peripheral volume of distribution 
was 3.35 L resulting in a volume of distribution at steady state of 7.07 L. 
In COVID-19 adult patients, the central volume of distribution was 4.52 L, the peripheral volume 
of distribution was 4.23 L, resulting in a volume of distribution of 8.75 L. 
Elimination  
Following intravenous administration, tocilizumab undergoes a dual elimination from the 
circulation, one following a linear clearance and one following a concentration-dependent non-
linear clearance. In RA patients, the linear clearance was 9.5 mL/h. In COVID-19 adult patients, 
the linear clearance was 17.6 mL/h in patients with baseline ordinal scale category 3 (OS 3, 
patients requiring supplemental oxygen), 22.5 mL/h in patients with baseline OS 4 (patients 
requiring high-flow oxygen or non-invasive ventilation), 29 mL/h in patients with baseline OS 5 
(patients requiring mechanical ventilation), and 35.4 mL/h in patients with baseline OS 6 (patients 
requiring extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) or mechanical ventilation and additional 
organ support). The concentration-dependent non-linear clearance plays a major role at low 
tocilizumab concentrations. Once the non-linear clearance pathway is saturated, at higher 
tocilizumab concentrations, clearance is mainly determined by the linear clearance. 
In RA patients, the t1/2 of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent. At steady-state following a 
dose of 8 mg/kg every 4 weeks, the effective t1/2 decreased with decreasing concentrations within 
a dosing interval from 18 days to 6 days. 
In COVID-19 patients, serum concentrations were below the limit of quantification after 35 days 
on average following one infusion of tocilizumab intravenous 8 mg/kg. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linearity  
Pharmacokinetic parameters of tocilizumab did not change with time. A more than dose-
proportional increase in the AUC and Cmin was observed for doses of 4 and 8 mg/kg every 
4 weeks. Cmax increased dose-proportionally. At steady-state, predicted AUC and Cmin were 3.2 
and 30 fold higher at 8 mg/kg as compared to 4 mg/kg, respectively. 
Special populations  
Renal impairment  
No formal study of the effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab has been 
conducted. Most of the patients in the population pharmacokinetic analysis had normal renal 
function or mild renal impairment. Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance based on Cockcroft-
Gault < 80 mL/min and ≥ 50 mL/min) did not impact the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab. 
Hepatic impairment  
No formal study of the effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab has 
been conducted. 
Age, gender and ethnicity  
Population pharmacokinetic analyses in RA and COVID-19 patients, showed that age, gender and 
ethnic origin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab. 
Results of the population PK analysis for COVID-19 patients confirmed that body weight and 
disease severity are both covariates which have an appreciable impact on the linear clearance of 
tocilizumab. 
sJIA Patients 
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab were determined using a population pharmacokinetic analysis 
on a database composed of 140 sJIA patients treated with 8 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks 
(patients with a body weight ≥ 30 kg ) 12 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks (patients with a body 
weight < 30 kg), 162 mg subcutaneously every week (patients weighing ≥ 30 kg), 162 mg 
subcutaneously every 10 days or every 2 weeks (patients weighing below 30 kg). 
Table 11: Predicted mean ± SD PK parameters at steady-state after intravenous dosing in sJIA 
Tocilizumab PK Parameter 
8 mg/kg Q2W ≥ 30 kg 
12 mg/kg Q2W below 30 kg 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Ctrough (µg/mL) 
Cmean (µg/mL) 
Accumulation Cmax 
Accumulation Ctrough 
Accumulation Cmean or AUCτ* 
*τ = 2 weeks for intravenous regimens 
256 ± 60.8 
69.7 ± 29.1 
119 ± 36.0 
1.42 
3.20 
2.01 
274 ± 63.8 
68.4 ± 30.0 
123 ± 36.0 
1.37 
3.41 
1.95 
After intravenous dosing, approximately 90% of the steady-state was reached by week 8 for both 
the 12 mg/kg (BW < 30 kg) and 8 mg/kg Q2W (BW ≥ 30 kg) regimens. 
In sJIA patients, the central volume of distribution was 1.87 L and the peripheral volume of 
distribution was 2.14 L resulting in a volume of distribution at a steady state of 4.01 L. The linear 
clearance estimated as a parameter in the population pharmacokinetic analysis, was 5.7 mL/h. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The half life of tocilizumab in sJIA patients is up to 16 days for the two body weight categories 
(8 mg/kg for body weight ≥ 30 kg or 12 mg/kg for body weight < 30 kg) at week 12. 
pJIA Patients 
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab in pJIA patients was characterized by a population 
pharmacokinetic analysis which included 237 patients who were treated with 8 mg/kg 
intravenously every 4 weeks (patients weighing ≥ 30 kg ), 10 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks 
(patients weighing below 30 kg), 162 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks (patients weighing ≥ 
30 kg), or 162 mg subcutaneously every 3 weeks (patients weighing below 30 kg). 
Table 12: Predicted mean ± SD PK parameters at steady-state after intravenous dosing in pJIA 
Tocilizumab PK Parameter 
8 mg/kg Q4W ≥ 30 kg 
10 mg/kg Q4W below 30 kg 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Ctrough (µg/mL) 
Cmean (µg/mL) 
Accumulation Cmax 
Accumulation Ctrough 
Accumulation Cmean or AUCτ* 
*τ = 4 weeks for intravenous regimens 
183 ± 42.3 
6.55 ± 7.93 
42.2 ± 13.4 
1.04 
2.22 
1.16 
168 ± 24.8 
1.47 ± 2.44 
31.6 ± 7.84 
1.01 
1.43 
1.05 
After intravenous dosing, approximately 90% of the steady-state was reached by week 12 for the 
10 mg/kg (BW < 30 kg), and by week 16 for the 8 mg/kg (BW ≥ 30 kg) dose. 
The half life of tocilizumab in pJIA patients is up to 16 days for the two body weight categories 
(8 mg/kg for body weight ≥ 30 kg or 10 mg/kg for body weight < 30 kg) during a dosing interval at 
steady state. 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. 
Carcinogenicity studies were not performed because IgG1 monoclonal antibodies are not deemed to 
have intrinsic carcinogenic potential. 
Available non-clinical data demonstrated the effect of IL-6 on malignant progression and apoptosis 
resistance to various cancer types. This data does not suggest a relevant risk for cancer initiation and 
progression under tocilizumab treatment. Additionally, proliferative lesions were not observed in a 6-
month chronic toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys or in IL-6 deficient mice. 
Available non-clinical data do not suggest an effect on fertility under tocilizumab treatment. Effects on 
endocrine active and reproductive system organs were not observed in a chronic cynomolgus monkey 
toxicity study and reproductive performance was not affected in IL-6 deficient mice. Tocilizumab 
administered to cynomolgus monkeys during early gestation, was observed to have no direct or 
indirect harmful effect on pregnancy or embryonal-foetal development. However, a slight increase in 
abortion/embryonal-foetal death was observed with high systemic exposure (> 100 x human exposure) 
in the 50 mg/kg/day high-dose group compared to placebo and other low-dose groups. Although IL-6 
does not seem to be a critical cytokine for foetal growth or the immunological control of the 
maternal/foetal interface, a relation of this finding to tocilizumab cannot be excluded. 
Treatment with a murine analogue did not exert toxicity in juvenile mice. In particular, there was 
no impairment of skeletal growth, immune function and sexual maturation. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
L-arginine 
L-histidine 
L-lactic acid 
Sodium chloride 
Polysorbate 80 
Hydrochloric acid (E507) and/or sodium hydroxide (E524) (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2  
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3 
Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
 3 years  
The vial may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25 °C for a single period of up to 
4 weeks. The vial must be protected from light and discarded if not used within the 4 week period. 
Diluted medicinal product  
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours up to 30 ºC in sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL (0.45%) solution for injection. 
From a microbiological point of view, the prepared solution for infusion should be used 
immediately. If not used immediately, in use storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2–8 °C and up to 
8 hours at 30 °C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
Store vials in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial(s) in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions of the diluted medicinal product see section 6.3. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
Tyenne is supplied in a vial (type I glass) with a stopper (bromobutyl rubber) containing 4 mL, 
10 mL or 20 mL concentrate. Each pack contains 1 vial and multipacks contain 4 (4 packs of 1) 
vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for dilution prior to administration  
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulate matter or discolouration 
prior to administration. Only solutions which are clear and colourless to pale yellow and practically 
free of visible particles should be diluted.  
RA,CRS Patients (≥ 30 kg) and COVID-19 
Withdraw a volume of sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL 
(0.45%) solution for injection from a 100 mL infusion bag, equal to the volume of Tyenne 
concentrate required for the patients dose, under aseptic conditions. The required amount of 
Tyenne concentrate (0.4 mL/kg) should be withdrawn from the vial and placed in the 100 mL 
infusion bag. This should be a final volume of 100 mL. To mix the solution, gently invert the 
infusion bag to avoid foaming. 
Use in the paediatric population 
sJIA, pJIA and CRS Patients ≥ 30 kg  
Withdraw a volume of sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL 
(0.45%) solution for injection from a 100 mL infusion bag, equal to the volume of Tyenne 
concentrate required for the patients dose, under aseptic conditions. The required amount of 
Tyenne concentrate (0.4 mL/kg) should be withdrawn from the vial and placed in the 100 mL 
infusion bag. This should be a final volume of 100 mL. To mix the solution, gently invert the 
infusion bag to avoid foaming. 
sJIA and CRS Patients < 30 kg  
Withdraw a volume of sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL 
(0.45%) solution for injection from a 50 mL infusion bag, equal to the volume of Tyenne 
concentrate required for the patients dose, under aseptic conditions. The required amount of 
Tyenne concentrate (0.6 mL/kg) should be withdrawn from the vial and placed in the 50 mL 
infusion bag. This should be a final volume of 50 mL. To mix the solution, gently invert the 
infusion bag to avoid foaming. 
pJIA Patients < 30 kg  
Withdraw a volume of sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL 
(0.45%) solution for injection from a 50 mL infusion bag, equal to the volume of Tyenne 
concentrate required for the patients dose, under aseptic conditions. The required amount of 
Tyenne concentrate (0.5 mL/kg) should be withdrawn from the vial and placed in the 50 mL 
infusion bag. This should be a final volume of 50 mL. To mix the solution, gently invert the 
infusion bag to avoid foaming. 
Tyenne is for single-use only. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1754/001 
EU/1/23/1754/002 
EU/1/23/1754/003 
EU/1/23/1754/004 
EU/1/23/1754/005 
EU/1/23/1754/006 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/DATE OF LATEST RENEWAL 
Date of first authorisation: 15 September 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/.  
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification 
of new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse 
reactions. See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Tyenne 162 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each pre-filled syringe contains 162 mg of tocilizumab in 0.9 mL. 
Tocilizumab is a recombinant humanized, anti-human monoclonal antibody of the 
immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) sub-class directed against soluble and membrane-bound interleukin 6 
receptors. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe (injection).  
Clear and colourless to pale yellow solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
Tyenne, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for 
• 
• 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults not 
previously treated with MTX. 
the treatment of moderate to severe active RA in adult patients who have either responded 
inadequately to, or who were intolerant to, previous therapy with one or more disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists. 
In these patients, Tyenne can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where 
continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
Tocilizumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-
ray and to improve physical function when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Tyenne is indicated for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) in 
patients 1 year of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with 
NSAIDs and systemic corticosteroids. Tyenne can be given as monotherapy (in case of intolerance 
to MTX or where treatment with MTX is inappropriate) or in combination with MTX. 
Tyenne in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of juvenile 
idiopathic polyarthritis (pJIA; rheumatoid factor positive or negative and extended oligoarthritis) in 
patients 2 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with MTX.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tyenne can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment 
with MTX is inappropriate. 
Tyenne is indicated for the treatment of Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) in adult patients. 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Tyenne subcutaneous formulation is administered with a single-use PFS with a safety device. 
Treatment should be initiated by healthcare professionals experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of RA, sJIA, pJIA and / or GCA. The first injection should be performed under the 
supervision of a qualified health care professional. A patient or parent/guardian can self-inject 
Tyenne only if the physician determines that it is appropriate and the patient or parent/guardian 
agrees to medical follow-up as necessary and has been trained in proper injection technique. 
Patients who transition from tocilizumab intravenous therapy to subcutaneous administration 
should administer the first subcutaneous dose at the time of the next scheduled intravenous dose 
under the supervision of a qualified health care professional. 
All patients treated with Tyenne should be given the Patient Alert Card. 
Suitability of the patient or parent/guardian for subcutaneous home use should be assessed and 
patients or parent/guardian instructed to inform a healthcare professional before administering the 
next dose if they experience symptoms of an allergic reaction. Patients should seek immediate 
medical attention if developing symptoms of serious allergic reactions (see section 4.4). 
Posology 
RA 
The recommended posology is subcutaneous 162 mg once every week. 
Limited information is available regarding switching patients from tocilizumab intravenous 
formulation to tocilizumab subcutaneous fixed dose formulation. The once every week dosing 
interval should be followed. 
Patients transitioning from intravenous to subcutaneous formulation should administer their first 
subcutaneous dose instead of the next scheduled intravenous dose under the supervision of a 
qualified healthcare professional. 
GCA 
The recommended posology is subcutaneous 162 mg once every week in combination with a 
tapering course of glucocorticoids. Tyenne can be used alone following discontinuation of 
glucocorticoids. Tyenne monotherapy should not be used for the treatment of acute relapses (see 
4.4). 
Based upon the chronic nature of GCA, treatment beyond 52 weeks should be guided by disease 
activity, physician discretion, and patient choice. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RA and GCA 
Dose adjustments due to laboratory abnormalities (see section 4.4). 
•  Liver enzyme abnormalities 
Laboratory Value  Action 
> 1 to 3 x Upper 
Limit of Normal 
(ULN) 
Dose modify concomitant DMARDs (RA) or immunomodulatory agents 
(GCA) if appropriate. 
For persistent increases in this range, reduce Tyenne dose frequency to every 
other week injection or interrupt Tyenne until alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or 
aspartate aminotransferase (AST) have normalised. 
Restart with weekly or every other week injection, as clinically appropriate. 
> 3 to 5 x ULN 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing until < 3 x ULN and follow recommendations above 
for > 1 to 3 x ULN. 
For persistent increases > 3 x ULN (confirmed by repeat testing, see 4.4.), 
discontinue Tyenne. 
> 5 x ULN 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
•  Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
In patients not previously treated with tocilizumab, initiation is not recommended in patients with 
an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) below 2 x 109/L 
Laboratory Value  
(cells x 109/ L ) 
Action 
ANC > 1 
Maintain dose. 
ANC 0.5 to 1 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing. 
When ANC increases > 1 x 109/ L resume Tyenne dosing every other week 
and increase to every week injection, as clinically appropriate. 
ANC < 0.5 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
•  Low platelet count 
Laboratory Value  
(cells x 103/ μL) 
Action 
50 to 100 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing. 
When platelet count > 100 x 103/ μL resume Tyenne dosing every other week 
and increase to every week injection as clinically appropriate. 
< 50 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RA and GCA 
Missed dose 
If a patient misses a subcutaneous weekly injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled dose, 
he/she should be instructed to take the missed dose on the next scheduled day. If a patient misses a 
subcutaneous once every other week injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled dose, 
he/she should be instructed to take the missed dose immediately and the next dose on the next 
scheduled day. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients > 65 years of age. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Tocilizumab 
has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (see section 5.2). Renal function 
should be monitored closely in these patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
Tocilizumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Therefore, no dose 
recommendations can be made. 
Paediatric patients 
The safety and efficacy of tocilizumab subcutaneous formulation in children from birth to less than 
1 year have not been established. No data are available. 
A change in dose should only be based on a consistent change in the patient’s body weight over 
time. Tocilizumab can be used alone or in combination with MTX. 
sJIA Patients 
The recommended posology in patients above 1 year of age is subcutaneous 162 mg once every 
week in patients weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg or subcutaneous 162 mg once every 
2 weeks in patients weighing less than 30 kg. 
Patients must have a minimum body weight of 10 kg when receiving Tyenne subcutaneously. 
pJIA Patients 
The recommended posology in patients above 2 years of age is subcutaneous 162 mg once every 
2 weeks in patients weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg or subcutaneous 162 mg once every 
3 weeks in patients weighing less than 30 kg. 
Dose adjustments due to laboratory abnormalities (sJIA and pJIA) 
If appropriate, the dose of concomitant MTX and/or other medicines should be modified or dosing 
stopped and tocilizumab dosing interrupted until the clinical situation has been evaluated. As there 
are many co-morbid conditions that may affect laboratory values in sJIA or pJIA, the decision to 
discontinue Tyenne for a laboratory abnormality should be based upon the medical assessment of 
the individual patient. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Liver enzyme abnormalities 
Laboratory  
Value 
> 1 to 3 x ULN 
> 3 x ULN to 5x 
ULN 
> 5x ULN 
Action 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
For persistent increases in this range, interrupt Tyenne until ALT/AST have 
normalized. 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing until < 3x ULN and follow recommendations above 
for > 1 to 3x ULN 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in sJIA or pJIA for a laboratory 
abnormality should be based on the medical assessment of the individual 
patient. 
•  Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
Laboratory Value  
(cells x 109/ L ) 
Action 
ANC > 1 
Maintain dose 
ANC 0.5 to 1 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
When ANC increases to > 1 x 109/ L resume Tyenne 
ANC < 0.5 
Discontinue Tyenne 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in sJIA or pJIA for a laboratory 
abnormality should be based on the medical assessment of the individual 
patient. 
•  Low platelet count 
Laboratory  
Value 
(cells x 103/µL) 
50 to 100 
Action 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
< 50 
When platelet count is > 100 x 103/µL resume Tyenne 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in sJIA or pJIA for a laboratory 
abnormality should be based on the medical assessment of the individual 
patient. 
Reduction of tocilizumab dosing frequency due to laboratory abnormalities has not been studied in 
sJIA or pJIA patients. 
The safety and efficacy of tocilizumab subcutaneous formulation in children with conditions other 
than sJIA or pJIA have not been established. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Available data with the intravenous formulation suggest that clinical improvement is observed 
within 12 weeks of initiation of treatment with tocilizumab. Continued therapy should be carefully 
reconsidered in a patient exhibiting no improvement within this timeframe. 
Missed dose  
If a sJIA patient misses a subcutaneous weekly injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled 
dose, he/she should be instructed to take the missed dose on the next scheduled day. If a patient 
misses a subcutaneous once every 2 week injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled dose, 
he/she should be instructed to take the missed dose immediately and the next dose on the next 
scheduled day. 
If a pJIA patient misses a subcutaneous injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled dose, 
he/she should take the missed dose as soon as they remember and take the next dose at the regular 
scheduled time. If a patient misses a subcutaneous injection of Tyenne by more than 7 days of the 
scheduled dose or is unsure when to inject Tyenne, call the doctor or pharmacist. 
Method of administration  
Tyenne is for subcutaneous use. 
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Tyenne if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate. The total content (0.9 mL) of the pre-filled syringe should be 
administered as a subcutaneous injection. The recommended injection sites (abdomen, thigh and 
upper arm) should be rotated and injections should never be given into moles, scars, or areas where 
the skin is tender, bruised, red, hard, or not intact. 
The pre-filled syringe should not be shaken. 
Comprehensive instructions for the administration of Tyenne in a pre-filled syringe are given in the 
package leaflet, see section 6.6. 
4.3 
 Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active, severe infections (see section 4.4). 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use 
Tocilizumab subcutaneous formulation is not intended for intravenous administration. 
Tocilizumab subcutaneous formulation is not intended to be given to children with sJIA weighing 
less than 10 kg. 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infections 
Serious and sometimes fatal infections have been reported in patients receiving immunosuppressive 
agents including tocilizumab (see section 4.8, Undesirable effects). Tocilizumab treatment must not 
be initiated in patients with active infections (see section 4.3). Administration of tocilizumab should 
be interrupted if a patient develops a serious infection until the infection is controlled (see section 
4.8). Healthcare professionals should exercise caution when considering the use of tocilizumab in 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
patients with a history of recurring or chronic infections or with underlying conditions (e.g.) 
diverticulitis, diabetes and interstitial lung disease which may predispose patients to infections. 
Vigilance for the timely detection of serious infection is recommended for patients receiving 
immunosuppressive agents such as tocilizumab as signs and symptoms of acute inflammation may 
be lessened, due to suppression of the acute phase reactants. The effects of tocilizumab on C-
reactive protein (CRP), neutrophils and signs and symptoms of infection should be considered 
when evaluating a patient for a potential infection. Patients (which includes younger children with 
sJIA or pJIA who may be less able to communicate their symptoms) and parents/guardians of sJIA 
or pJIA patients, should be instructed to contact their healthcare professional immediately when 
any symptoms suggesting infection appear, in order to assure rapid evaluation and appropriate 
treatment. 
Tuberculosis 
As recommended for other biological treatments, all patients should be screened for latent 
tuberculosis (TB) infection prior to starting tocilizumab therapy. Patients with latent TB should be 
treated with standard anti-mycobacterial therapy before initiating tocilizumab. Prescribers are 
reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin and interferon-gamma TB blood test results, 
especially in patients who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
Patients and parents/guardians of sJIA or pJIA patients should be advised to seek medical advice if 
signs/symptoms (e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade (fever) suggestive of a 
tuberculosis infection occur during or after therapy with tocilizumab. 
Viral reactivation 
Viral reactivation (e.g. hepatitis B virus) has been reported with biologic therapies for RA. In 
clinical studies with tocilizumab, patients who screened positive for hepatitis were excluded. 
Complications of diverticulitis 
Events of diverticular perforations as complications of diverticulitis have been reported 
uncommonly in patients treated with tocilizumab (see section 4.8). Tocilizumab should be used 
with caution in patients with previous history of intestinal ulceration or diverticulitis. Patients 
presenting with symptoms potentially indicative of complicated diverticulitis, such as abdominal 
pain, haemorrhage and/or unexplained change in bowel habits with fever should be evaluated 
promptly for early identification of diverticulitis which can be associated with gastrointestinal 
perforation. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis have been reported in association with 
tocilizumab (see section 4.8). Such reactions may be more severe, and potentially fatal in patients 
who have experienced hypersensitivity reactions during previous treatment with tocilizumab even 
if they have received pretreatment with steroids and antihistamines. If an anaphylactic reaction or 
other serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs, administration of tocilizumab should be stopped 
immediately, appropriate therapy initiated and tocilizumab should be permanently discontinued. 
Active hepatic disease and hepatic impairment 
Treatment with tocilizumab, particularly when administered concomitantly with MTX, may be 
associated with elevations in hepatic transaminases, therefore, caution should be exercised when 
considering treatment of patients with active hepatic disease or hepatic impairment (see sections 
4.2 and 4.8). 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatotoxicity 
Transient or intermittent mild and moderate elevations of hepatic transaminases have been reported 
commonly with tocilizumab treatment (see section 4.8). An increased frequency of these elevations 
was observed when potentially hepatotoxic medicines (e.g. MTX) were used in combination with 
tocilizumab. When clinically indicated, other liver function tests including bilirubin should be 
considered. 
Serious treatment-induced liver injury, including acute liver failure, hepatitis and jaundice, have 
been observed with tocilizumab (see section 4.8). Serious hepatic injury occurred between 2 weeks 
to more than 5 years after initiation of tocilizumab. Cases of liver failure resulting in liver 
transplantation have been reported. Patients should be advised to immediately seek medical help if 
they experience signs and symptoms of hepatic injury. 
Caution should be exercised when considering initiation of tocilizumab treatment in patients with 
elevated ALT or AST > 1.5 x ULN. In patients with baseline ALT or AST > 5 x ULN, treatment is 
not recommended. 
In RA, GCA, pJIA and sJIA patients, ALT/AST should be monitored every 4 to 8 weeks for the 
first 6 months of treatment followed by every 12 weeks thereafter. For recommended 
modifications, including tocilizumab discontinuation, based on transaminases levels see section 
4.2. For ALT or AST elevations > 3–5 x ULN, tocilizumab treatment should be interrupted. 
Haematological abnormalities 
Decreases in neutrophil and platelet counts have occurred following treatment with tocilizumab 
8 mg/kg in combination with MTX (see section 4.8). There may be an increased risk of neutropenia 
in patients who have previously been treated with a TNF antagonist. 
In patients not previously treated with tocilizumab, initiation is not recommended in patients with 
an ANC below 2 x 109/L. Caution should be exercised when considering initiation of tocilizumab 
treatment in patients with a low platelet count (i.e. platelet count below 100 x 103/μL). In patients 
who develop an ANC < 0.5 x 109/ L or a platelet count < 50 x 103/μL, continued treatment is not 
recommended. 
Severe neutropenia may be associated with an increased risk of serious infections, although there 
has been no clear association between decreases in neutrophils and the occurrence of serious 
infections in clinical studies with tocilizumab to date. 
In RA and GCA patients, neutrophils and platelets should be monitored 4 to 8 weeks after start of 
therapy and thereafter according to standard clinical practice. For recommended dose modifications 
based on ANC and platelet counts, see section 4.2. 
In sJIA and pJIA patients, neutrophils and platelets should be monitored at the time of the second 
administration and thereafter according to good clinical practice (see section 4.2). 
Lipid parameters 
Elevations in lipid parameters including total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-
density lipoprotein (HDL) and triglycerides were observed in patients treated with tocilizumab (see 
section 4.8). In the majority of patients, there was no increase in atherogenic indices, and elevations 
in total cholesterol responded to treatment with lipid lowering agents. 
In all patients, assessment of lipid parameters should be performed 4 to 8 weeks following 
initiation of tocilizumab therapy. Patients should be managed according to local clinical guidelines 
for management of hyperlipidaemia. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neurological disorders 
Physicians should be vigilant for symptoms potentially indicative of new-onset central 
demyelinating disorders. The potential for central demyelination with tocilizumab is currently 
unknown. 
Malignancy 
The risk of malignancy is increased in patients with RA. Immunomodulatory medicinal products 
may increase the risk of malignancy. 
Vaccinations 
Live and live attenuated vaccines should not be given concurrently with tocilizumab as clinical 
safety has not been established. In a randomized open-label study, adult RA patients treated with 
tocilizumab and MTX were able to mount an effective response to both the 23-valent pneumococcal 
polysaccharide and tetanus toxoid vaccines which was comparable to the response seen in patients 
on MTX only. It is recommended that all patients particularly paediatric or elderly patients, be 
brought up to date with all immunisations in agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior 
to initiating tocilizumab therapy. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of  
tocilizumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding 
immunosuppressive agents. 
Cardiovascular risk 
RA patients have an increased risk for cardiovascular disorders and should have risk factors (e.g. 
hypertension, hyperlipidaemia) managed as part of usual standard of care. 
Combination with TNF antagonists 
There is no experience with the use of tocilizumab with TNF antagonists or other biological 
treatments for RA patients. Tocilizumab is not recommended for use with other biological agents. 
GCA 
Tocilizumab monotherapy should not be used for the treatment of acute relapses as efficacy in this 
setting has not been established. Glucocorticoids should be given according to medical judgement 
and practice guidelines. 
sJIA 
Macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) is a serious life-threatening disorder that may develop in 
sJIA patients. In clinical studies, tocilizumab has not been studied in patients during an episode of 
active MAS. 
Excipients with known effects  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.9 mL dose, i.e. 
essentially 'sodium-free' 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Concomitant administration of a single dose of 10 mg/kg tocilizumab with 10-25 mg MTX once 
weekly had no clinically significant effect on MTX exposure. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses did not detect any effect of MTX, non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or corticosteroids on tocilizumab clearance in RA patients. In GCA 
patients, no effect of cumulative corticosteroid dose on tocilizumab exposure was observed. 
The expression of hepatic CYP450 enzymes is suppressed by cytokines, such as IL-6, that 
stimulate chronic inflammation. Thus, CYP450 expression may be reversed when potent cytokine 
inhibitory therapy, such as tocilizumab, is introduced. 
In vitro studies with cultured human hepatocytes demonstrated that IL-6 caused a reduction in 
CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 enzyme expression. Tocilizumab normalises 
expression of these enzymes. 
In a study in RA patients, levels of simvastatin (CYP3A4) were decreased by 57% one week 
following a single dose of tocilizumab, to the level similar to, or slightly higher than, those observed 
in healthy subjects. 
When starting or stopping therapy with tocilizumab, patients taking medicinal products which are 
individually adjusted and are metabolised via CYP450 3A4, 1A2 or 2C9 (e.g. methylprednisolone, 
dexamethasone, (with the possibility for oral glucocorticoid withdrawal syndrome), atorvastatin, 
calcium channel blockers, theophylline, warfarin, phenprocoumon, phenytoin, ciclosporin, or 
benzodiazepines) should be monitored as doses may need to be increased to maintain therapeutic 
effect. Given its long elimination half-life (t1/2), the effect of tocilizumab on CYP450 enzyme activity 
may persist for several weeks after stopping therapy. 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential  
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during and up to 3 months after 
treatment. 
Pregnancy  
There are no adequate data from the use of tocilizumab in pregnant women. A study in animals has 
shown an increased risk of spontaneous abortion/embryo-foetal death at a high dose (see section 
5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Tocilizumab should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary.  
Breast-feeding  
It is unknown whether tocilizumab is excreted in human breast milk. The excretion of tocilizumab 
in milk has not been studied in animals. A decision on whether to continue/discontinue breast-
feeding or to continue/discontinue therapy with tocilizumab should be made taking into account the 
benefit of breast-feeding to the child and the benefit of tocilizumab therapy to the woman. 
Fertility  
Available non-clinical data do not suggest an effect on fertility under tocilizumab treatment. 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tocilizumab has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines (see section 4.8, 
dizziness). 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8 
Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety profile comes from 4 510 patients exposed to tocilizumab in clinical studies; the 
majority of these patients were participating in adult RA studies (n=4 009), while the remaining 
experience comes from GCA (n=149), pJIA (n=240) and sJIA (n=112) studies. The safety profile 
of tocilizumab across these indications remains similar and undifferentiated. 
The most commonly reported Adverse Drug Reactions (ADRs) were upper respiratory tract 
infections, nasopharyngitis, headache, hypertension and increased ALT. 
The most serious ADRs were serious infections, complications of diverticulitis, and 
hypersensitivity reactions. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions  
ADRs from clinical studies and/or post marketing experience with tocilizumab based on spontaneous 
case reports, literature cases and cases from non-interventional study programs are listed in Table 1 
and are presented by MedDRA system organ class. The corresponding frequency category for each 
AR is based on the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) rare, (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) or very rare (< 1/10 000). Within 
each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1: List of ADRs occurring in patients treated with tocilizumab 
MedDRA  
System Organ  
Class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
Immune 
system 
di
d
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous 
system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Vascular  
disorders 
Frequency categories with preferred terms 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Upper respiratory tract 
infections 
Diverticulitis 
Cellulitis, 
Pneumonia, Oral 
herpes simplex, 
Herpes zoster 
Leukopenia, 
Neutropenia, 
Hypofibrinogenaemia 
Anaphylaxis  
(fatal)1, 2 ,3 
Hypothyroidism 
Hypercholesterolemia* 
Hypertriglyceridemia 
Headache,  
Dizziness 
Conjunctivitis 
Hypertension 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
MedDRA  
System Organ  
Class 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Frequency categories with preferred terms 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Cough, 
Dyspnoea 
Abdominal pain, 
Mouth ulceration, 
Gastritis 
Stomatitis, 
Gastric ulcer 
Treatment-
induced liver 
injury, 
Hepatitis, 
Jaundice, 
Very rare: 
Hepatic failure 
Stevens-
Johnson-
Syndrome3  
Nephrolithiasis 
Injection site reaction 
Rash, Pruritus, 
Urticaria 
Peripheral oedema, 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Hepatic 
transaminases 
increased, Weight 
increased, Total 
bilirubin increased* 
* Includes elevations collected as part of routine laboratory monitoring (see text below) 
1 See section 4.3 
2 See section 4.4 
3 This adverse reaction was identified through post marketing surveillance but not observed in controlled clinical studies. 
The frequency category was estimated as the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval calculated on the basis of the 
total number of patients exposed to TCZ in clinical studies. 
Subcutaneous use  
RA  
The safety of subcutaneous tocilizumab in RA includes a double-blind, controlled, multicenter 
study, SC-I. SC-I was a non-inferiority study that compared the efficacy and safety of tocilizumab 
162 mg administered every week versus 8 mg/kg intravenous in 1 262 patients with RA. All 
patients received background non-biologic DMARD(s). The safety and immunogenicity observed 
for tocilizumab administered subcutaneous was consistent with the known safety profile of 
intravenous tocilizumab and no new or unexpected adverse drug reactions were observed (see 
Table 1). A higher frequency of injection site reactions was observed in the subcutaneous arms 
compared with placebo subcutaneous injections in the intravenous arms.  
49 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
Injection site reactions 
During the 6-month controlled period, in SC-I, the frequency of injection site reactions was 10.1% 
(64/631) and 2.4% (15/631) for the subcutaneous tocilizumab and the subcutaneous placebo 
(intravenous group) weekly injections, respectively. These injection site reactions (including 
erythema, pruritus, pain and haematoma) were mild to moderate in severity. The majority was 
resolved without any treatment and none necessitated treatment discontinuation. 
Haematological abnormalities 
Neutrophils 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 6 month controlled clinical study SC-I, a 
decrease in neutrophil count below 1 × 109/L occurred in 2.9% of patients on the subcutaneous 
weekly dose. 
There was no clear relationship between decreases in neutrophils below 1 x 109/L and the 
occurrence of serious infections. 
Platelets 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 6 month clinical study SC-I, none of the 
patients on the subcutaneous weekly dose had a decrease in platelet count to ≤ 50 × 103 /μL. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 6-month controlled clinical study SC-I, 
elevation in ALT or AST ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 6.5% and 1.4% of patients, respectively on the 
subcutaneous weekly dose. 
Lipid parameters 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 6 month controlled clinical study SC-I, 
19% of patients experienced sustained elevations in total cholesterol > 6.2 mmol/L (240 mg/dL), 
with 9% experiencing a sustained increase in LDL to ≥ 4.1 mmol/L(160 mg/dL) on the 
subcutaneous weekly dose. 
sJIA (subcutaneous)  
The safety profile of subcutaneous tocilizumab was evaluated in 51 paediatric patients (1 to 
17 years of age) with sJIA. In general, the adverse drug reactions in patients with sJIA were similar 
in type to those seen in RA patients (see Undesirable Effects section above). 
Infections 
The rate of infection in sJIA patients treated with subcutaneous tocilizumab was comparable to 
sJIA patients treated with intravenous tocilizumab. 
Injection Site Reactions (ISRs) 
In the subcutaneous Study (WA28118), a total of 41.2% (21/51) sJIA patients experienced ISRs to 
tocilizumab subcutaneous. The most common ISRs were erythema, pruritus, pain, and swelling at 
the injection site. The majority of ISRs reported were Grade 1 events and all ISRs reported were 
non-serious and none required patient withdrawal from treatment or dose interruption. 
Laboratory Abnormalities 
In the 52-week open-label subcutaneous Study (WA28118), neutrophil count decrease to below 1 × 
109/L occurred in 23.5% of patients treated with tocilizumab subcutaneous. Decreases in platelet 
counts to below 100 × 103/μL occurred in 2% of the patients treated with tocilizumab 
subcutaneous. An elevation in ALT or AST to ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 9.8% and 4.0% patients 
treated with tocilizumab subcutaneous, respectively. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lipid parameters 
In the 52-week open-label subcutaneous Study (WA28118), 23.4% and 35.4% of patients 
experienced a post-baseline elevation of their LDL-cholesterol value to ≥ 130 mg/dL and total 
cholesterol value to ≥ 200 mg/dL at any time during study treatment, respectively. 
pJIA (subcutaneous)  
The safety profile of subcutaneous tocilizumab was also evaluated in 52 paediatric patients with 
pJIA. The total patient exposure to tocilizumab in the pJIA all exposure population was 
184.4 patient years for intravenous and 50.4 patient years for subcutaneous tocilizumab. In general, 
the safety profile observed in patients with pJIA was consistent with the known safety profile of 
tocilizumab with the exception of ISRs (see Table 1). A higher frequency of pJIA patients 
experienced ISRs following subcutaneous tocilizumab injections compared to adult RA. 
Infections 
In the subcutaneous tocilizumab study, the rate of infection in pJIA patients treated with 
subcutaneous tocilizumab was comparable with pJIA patients treated with intravenous tocilizumab. 
Injection Site Reactions 
A total of 28.8% (15/52) pJIA patients experienced ISRs to tocilizumab subcutaneous. These ISRs 
occurred in a 44% of patients ≥ 30 kg compared to 14.8% of patients below 30 kg. The most 
common ISRs were injection site erythema, swelling, hematoma, pain and pruritis. All ISRs 
reported were non-serious Grade 1 events, and none of the ISRs required patient withdrawal from 
treatment or dose interruption. 
Laboratory Abnormalities 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab all exposure population, a decrease in 
neutrophil count below 1 × 109/L occurred in 15.4% of patients treated with subcutaneous 
tocilizumab. An elevation in ALT or AST ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 9.6% and 3.8% patients treated 
with tocilizumab subcutaneous, respectively. No patients treated with subcutaneous tocilizumab 
experienced a decrease in platelet count to ≤ 50 × 103 / μL. 
Lipid parameters 
In the subcutaneous Study, 14.3% and 12.8% of patients experienced a post-baseline elevation of 
their LDL-cholesterol value to ≥ 130 mg/dL and total cholesterol value to ≥ 200 mg/dL at any time 
during study treatment, respectively. 
GCA (subcutaneous)  
The safety of subcutaneous tocilizumab has been studied in one Phase III study (WA28119) with 
251 GCA patients. The total patient years duration in the tocilizumab all exposure population was 
138.5 patient years during the 12 month double blind, placebo controlled phase of the study. The 
overall safety profile observed in the tocilizumab treatment groups was consistent with the known 
safety profile of tocilizumab (see Table 1). 
Infections 
The rate of infection/serious infection events was balanced between the tocilizumab weekly group 
(200.2/9.7 events per 100 patient years) vs. placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone taper 
(156.0/4.2 events per 100 patient years) and placebo plus 52 weeks taper (210.2/12.5 events per 
100 patient years) groups. 
Injection site reactions 
In the tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly group, a total of 6% (6/100) patients reported an adverse 
reaction occurring at the site of a subcutaneous injection. No injection site reaction was reported as 
a serious adverse event or required treatment discontinuation. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haematological abnormalities 
Neutrophils 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 12 month controlled clinical study, a 
decrease in neutrophil count below 1 × 109/L occurred in 4% of patients in the tocilizumab 
subcutaneous weekly group. This was not observed in either of the placebo plus prednisone taper 
groups. 
Platelets 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 12 month controlled clinical study, one 
patient (1%, 1/100) in the tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly group had a single transient occurence 
of decrease in platelet count to < 100 × 103/μL without associated bleeding events. A decrease in 
platelet count below 100 × 103/μL was not observed in either of the placebo plus prednisone taper 
groups. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 12 month controlled clinical study, 
elevation in ALT ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 3% of patients in the tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly 
group compared to 2% in the placebo plus 52 week prednisone taper group and none in the placebo 
plus 26 week prednisone taper group. An elevation in AST > 3 ULN occurred in 1% of patients in 
the tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly group, compared to no patients in either of the placebo plus 
prednisone taper groups. 
Lipid parameters 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 12 month controlled clinical study, 34% of 
patients experienced sustained elevations in total cholesterol > 6.2 mmol/L (240 mg/dL), with 15% 
experiencing a sustained increase in LDL to ≥ 4.1 mmol/L (160 mg/dL) in the tocilizumab 
subcutaneous weekly group. 
Intravenous use 
RA 
The safety of tocilizumab has been studied in 5 Phase III, double-blind controlled studies and their 
extension periods. 
The all control population includes all patients from the double-blind phases of each core study 
from randomization until either the first change in the treatment regimen, or two years is reached. 
The control period in 4 of the studies was 6 months and in 1 study was up to 2 years. In the double-
blind controlled studies 774 patients received tocilizumab 4 mg/kg in combination with MTX, 
1 870 patients received tocilizumab 8 mg/kg in combination with MTX/other DMARDs and 
288 patients received tocilizumab 8 mg/kg monotherapy. 
The all exposure population includes all patients who received at least one dose of tocilizumab 
either in the double-blind control period or open label extension phase in studies. Of the 
4 009 patients in this population, 3 577 received treatment for at least 6 months, 3 296 for at least 
one year; 2 806 received treatment for at least 2 years and 1 222 for 3 years. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infections 
In the 6-month controlled studies the rate of all infections reported with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus 
DMARD treatment was 127 events per 100 patient years compared to 112 events per 100 patient 
years in the placebo plus DMARD group. In the long-term exposure population, the overall rate of 
infections with tocilizumab was 108 events per 100 patient years exposure. 
In 6-month controlled clinical studies, the rate of serious infections with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus 
DMARDs was 5.3 events per 100 patient years exposure compared to 3.9 events per 100 patient 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
years exposure in the placebo plus DMARD group. In the monotherapy study the rate of serious 
infections was 3.6 events per 100 patient years of exposure in the tocilizumab group and 1.5 events 
per100 patient years of exposure in the MTX group. 
In the all exposure population the overall rate of serious infections was 4.7 events per 100 patient 
years. Reported serious infections, some with fatal outcome, included pneumonia, cellulitis, herpes 
zoster, gastroenteritis, diverticulitis, sepsis, bacterial arthritis. Cases of opportunistic infections 
have also been reported. 
Interstitial lung disease 
Impaired lung function may increase the risk for developing infections. There have been post-
marketing reports of interstitial lung disease (including pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis), some 
of which had fatal outcomes. 
Gastrointestinal perforation 
During the 6-month controlled clinical studies, the overall rate of gastrointestinal perforation was 
0.26 events per 100 patient years with tocilizumab therapy. In the long-term exposure population 
the overall rate of gastrointestinal perforation was 0.28 events per 100 patient years. Reports of 
gastrointestinal perforation on tocilizumab were primarily reported as complications of 
diverticulitis including generalised purulent peritonitis, lower gastrointestinal perforation, fistulae 
and abscess. 
Infusion Related reactions 
In the 6-month controlled studies adverse events associated with infusion (selected events occurring 
during or within 24 hours of infusion) were reported by 6.9% of patients in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg 
plus DMARD group and 5.1% of patients in the placebo plus DMARD group. Events reported 
during the infusion were primarily episodes of hypertension; events reported within 24 hours of 
finishing an infusion were headache and skin reactions (rash, urticaria). These events were not 
treatment limiting. 
The rate of anaphylactic reactions (occurring in a total of 6/3 778patients, 0.2%) was several fold 
higher with the 4 mg/kg dose, compared to the 8 mg/kg dose. Clinically significant hypersensitivity 
reactions associated with tocilizumab and requiring treatment discontinuation were reported in a 
total of 13 out of 3 778 patients (0.3%) treated with tocilizumab during the controlled and open 
label clinical studies. These reactions were generally observed during the second to fifth infusions 
of tocilizumab (see section 4.4). Fatal anaphylaxis has been reported after marketing authorisation 
during treatment with intravenous tocilizumab (see section 4.4). 
Haematological abnormalities 
Neutrophils 
In the 6-month controlled studies decreases in neutrophil counts below 1 x 109/ L occurred in 3.4% 
of patients on tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARDs compared to < 0.1% of patients on placebo plus 
DMARDs. Approximately half of the patients who developed an ANC < 1 x 109/ L did so within 
8 weeks after starting therapy. Decreases below 0.5 x 109/ L were reported in 0.3% patients 
receiving tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARDs. Infections with neutropenia have been reported. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence 
of decreases in neutrophil counts remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
clinical studies. 
Platelets 
In the 6-month controlled studies decreases in platelet counts below 100 x 103/μL occurred in 1.7% 
of patients on tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARDs compared to < 1% on placebo plus DMARDs. 
These decreases occurred without associated bleeding events. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence 
of decreases in platelet counts remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
clinical studies. 
Very rare reports of pancytopenia have occurred in the post marketing setting. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
During the 6-month controlled studies transient elevations in ALT/AST > 3 x ULN were observed 
in 2.1% of patients on tocilizumab 8 mg/kg compared to 4.9% of patients on MTX and in 6.5% of 
patients who received 8 mg/kg tocilizumab plus DMARDs compared to 1.5% of patients on 
placebo plus DMARDs. 
The addition of potentially hepatotoxic medicines (e.g. MTX) to tocilizumab monotherapy resulted 
in increased frequency of these elevations. Elevations of ALT/AST > 5 x ULN were observed in 
0.7% of tocilizumab monotherapy patients and 1.4% of tocilizumab plus DMARD patients, the 
majority of whom were discontinued permanently from tocilizumab treatment. During the double-
blind controlled period, the incidence of indirect bilirubin greater than the upper limit of normal, 
collected as a routine laboratory parameter, is 6.2% in patients treated with 8 mg/kg tocilizumab + 
DMARD. A total of 5.8% of patients experienced an elevation of indirect bilirubin of > 1 to 2 x 
ULN and 0.4% had an elevation of > 2 x ULN. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence 
of elevation in ALT/AST remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
clinical studies. 
Lipid parameters 
During the 6-month controlled studies, increases of lipid parameters such as total cholesterol, 
triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, and/or HDL cholesterol have been reported commonly. With 
routine laboratory monitoring it was seen that approximately 24% of patients receiving tocilizumab 
in clinical studies experienced sustained elevations in total cholesterol ≥ 6.2 mmol/ L, with 15% 
experiencing a sustained increase in LDL to ≥ 4.1 mmol/ L. Elevations in lipid parameters 
responded to treatment with lipid-lowering agents. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence of 
elevations in lipid parameters remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
studies. 
Malignancies 
The clinical data are insufficient to assess the potential incidence of malignancy following exposure 
to tocilizumab. Long-term safety evaluations are ongoing. 
Skin Reactions 
Rare reports of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome have occurred in the post marketing setting. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-tocilizumab antibodies may develop during tocilizumab treatment. Correlation of antibody 
development to clinical response or adverse events may be observed. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorization of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9 Overdose 
There are limited data available on overdose with tocilizumab. One case of accidental overdose 
was reported in which a patient with multiple myeloma received a single dose of 40 mg/kg 
administered intravenously. No adverse reactions were observed. 
No serious adverse reactions were observed in healthy volunteers who received a single dose of 
tocilizumab up to 28 mg/kg, although dose limiting neutropenia was observed. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Interleukin inhibitors; ATC code: L04AC07. 
Tyenne is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the European 
Medicines Agency website; http://www.ema.europa.eu 
Mechanism of action 
Tocilizumab binds specifically to both soluble and membrane-bound IL-6 receptors (sIL-6R and 
mIL-6R). Tocilizumab has been shown to inhibit sIL-6R and mIL-6R-mediated signalling. IL-6 is a 
pleiotropic pro-inflammatory cytokine produced by a variety of cell types including T- and B-cells, 
monocytes and fibroblasts. IL-6 is involved in diverse physiological processes such as T-cell 
activation, induction of immunoglobulin secretion, induction of hepatic acute phase protein 
synthesis and stimulation of haemopoiesis. IL-6 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diseases 
including inflammatory diseases, osteoporosis and neoplasia. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
In clinical studies with tocilizumab, rapid decreases in CRP, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), 
serum amyloid A (SAA) and fibrinogen were observed. Consistent with the effect on acute phase 
reactants, treatment with tocilizumab was associated with reduction in platelet count within the 
normal range. Increases in haemoglobin levels were observed, through tocilizumab decreasing the 
IL-6 driven effects on hepcidin production to increase iron availability. In tocilizumab-treated 
patients, decreases in the levels of CRP to within normal ranges were seen as early as week 2, with 
decreases maintained while on treatment. 
In GCA clinical study WA28119, similar rapid decreases in CRP and ESR were observed along 
with slight increases in mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration. In healthy subjects 
administered tocilizumab in doses from 2 to 28 mg/kg intravenously and 81 to 162 mg 
subcutaneously, absolute neutrophil counts decreased to their lowest 2 to 5 days following 
administration. Thereafter, neutrophils recovered towards baseline in a dose dependent manner. 
Patients demonstrate a comparable (to healthy subjects) decrease of absolute neutrophil counts 
following tocilizumab administration (see section 4.8). 
RA (Subcutaneous) 
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of subcutaneous administered tocilizumab in alleviating the signs and symptoms of 
RA and radiographic response, was assessed in two randomised, double-blind, controlled, multi-
center studies. For study I (SC-I), patients were required to be > 18 years of age with moderate to 
severe active RA diagnosed according to ACR criteria who had at least 4 tender and 4 swollen 
joints at baseline. All patients received background non-biologic DMARD(s). For study II (SC-II), 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients were required to be > 18 years of age with moderate to severe active RA diagnosed 
according to ACR criteria who had at least 8 tender and 6 swollen joints at baseline. 
Switching from 8 mg/kg intravenous once every 4 weeks to 162 mg subcutaneous once every 
week, will alter exposure in the patient. The extent varies with the patient’s body weight (increased 
in light body weight patients and decreased in heavy body weight patients) but clinical outcome is 
consistent with that observed in intravenous treated patients. 
Clinical response  
Study SC-I evaluated patients with moderate to severe active RA who had an inadequate clinical 
response to their existing rheumatologic therapy, including one or more DMARD(s) where 
approximately 20% had a history of inadequate response to at least one TNF inhibitor. In SC-I, 
1 262 patients were randomized 1:1 to receive tocilizumab subcutaneous 162 mg every week or 
tocilizumab intravenous 8 mg/kg every four weeks in combination with non-biologic DMARD(s). 
The primary endpoint in the study was the difference in the proportion of patients who achieved an 
ACR20 response at week 24. The results from study SC-I is shown in Table 2. 
Table 2: ACR responses in study SC-I (% patients) at Week 24 
TCZ SC 162 mg  
every week + DMARD  
N=558 
SC-Ia 
TCZ IV 8 mg/kg + DMARD 
N=537 
69.4% 
47.0% 
24.0% 
73.4% 
48.6% 
27.9% 
-4.0 (-9.2, 1.2) 
-1.8 (-7.5, 4.0) 
-3.8 (-9.0, 1.3) 
ACR20 Week 24 
Weighted difference (95% CI) 
ACR50 Week 24 
Weighted difference (95% CI) 
ACR70 Week 24 
Weighted difference (95% CI) 
TCZ = tocilizumab 
a = Per Protocol Population 
Patients in study SC-I had a mean Disease Activity Score (DAS28) at baseline of 6.6 and 6.7 on the 
subcutaneous and intravenous arms, respectively. At week 24, a significant reduction in DAS28 
from baseline (mean improvement) of 3.5 was observed on both treatment arms, and a comparable 
proportion of patients had achieved DAS28 clinical remission (DAS28 < 2.6) on the subcutaneous 
(38.4%) and intravenous (36.9%) arms. 
Radiographic response 
The radiographic response of subcutaneous administered tocilizumab was assessed in a double-
blind, controlled, multicenter study in patients with active RA (SC-II). Study SC-II evaluated 
patients with moderate to severe active RA who had an inadequate clinical response to their 
existing rheumatologic therapy, including one or more DMARD(s) where approximately 20% had 
a history of inadequate response to at least one TNF inhibitor. Patients were required to be 
>18 years of age with active RA diagnosed according to ACR criteria who had at least 8 tender and 
6 swollen joints at baseline. In SC-II, 656 patients were randomized 2:1 to tocilizumab 
subcutaneous 162 mg every other week or placebo, in combination with non-biologic DMARD(s). 
In study SC-II, inhibition of structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as 
a change from baseline in the van der Heijde modified mean total Sharp score (mTSS). At week 24, 
inhibition of structural damage was shown, with significantly less radiographic progression in 
patients receiving tocilizumab subcutaneous compared to placebo (mean mTSS of 0.62 vs. 1.23, 
p=0.0149 (van Elteren). These results are consistent with those observed in patients treated with 
intravenous tocilizumab.  
56 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
In study SC-II, at week 24 there was ACR20 of 60.9%, ACR50 of 39.8% and ACR70 of 19.7% for 
patients treated with tocilizumab subcutaneous every other week versus placebo ACR20 of 31.5%, 
ACR50 of 12.3% and ACR70 of 5.0%. Patients had mean DAS28 at baseline of 6.7 on 
subcutaneous and 6.6 on placebo arms. At week 24, a significant reduction in DAS28 from 
baseline of 3.1 was observed on subcutaneous and 1.7 on placebo arm, and for DAS28 < 2.6, 
32.0% was observed on subcutaneous and 4.0% on placebo arm. 
Health-related and quality of life outcomes 
In study SC-I, the mean decrease in HAQ-DI from baseline to week 24 was 0.6 on both the 
subcutaneous and intravenous arms. The proportion of patients achieving a clinically relevant 
improvement in HAQ-DI at week 24 (change from baseline of ≥ 0.3 units) was also comparable on 
the subcutaneous (65.2%) versus intravenous (67.4%) arms, with a weighted difference in 
proportions of - 2.3% (95% CI - 8.1, 3.4). For SF-36, the mean change from baseline at week 24 in 
the mental component score was 6.22 for the subcutaneous arm and 6.54 for the intravenous arm, 
and for the physical component score was also similar with 9.49 for the subcutaneous arm and 9.65 
for the intravenous arm. 
In study SC-II, mean decrease in HAQ-DI from baseline to week 24 was significantly greater for 
patients treated with tocilizumab subcutaneous every other week (0.4) versus placebo (0.3). 
Proportion of patients achieving a clinically relevant improvement in HAQ-DI at week 24 (change 
from baseline of ≥ 0.3 units) was higher for tocilizumab subcutaneous every other week (58%) 
versus placebo (46.8%). SF-36 (mean change in mental and physical component scores) was 
significantly greater with tocilizumab subcutaneous group (6.5 and 5.3) versus placebo (3.8 and 
2.9). 
sJIA (subcutaneous) 
Clinical Efficacy 
A 52-week, open-label, multi-centre, PK/PD and safety study (WA28118) was conducted in 
paediatric patients with sJIA, aged 1 to 17 years, to determine the appropriate subcutaneous dose of 
tocilizumab that achieved comparable PK/PD and safety profiles to the intravenous regimen. 
Eligible patients received tocilizumab dosed according to body weight (BW), with patients 
weighing ≥ 30 kg (n=26) dosed with 162 mg of tocilizumab every week (QW) and patients 
weighing below 30 kg (n=25) dosed with 162 mg of tocilizumab every 10 days (Q10D; n=8) or 
every 2 weeks (Q2W; n=17) for 52 weeks. Of these 51 patients, 26 (51%) were naive to 
tocilizumab and 25 (49%) had been receiving tocilizumab intravenous and switched to tocilizumab 
subcutaneous at baseline. 
Exploratory efficacy results showed that tocilizumab subcutaneous improved all exploratory 
efficacy parameters including Juvenile Arthritis Disease Activity Score (JADAS)-71, for 
tocilizumab naïve patients and maintained all exploratory efficacy parameters for patients who 
switched from tocilizumab IV to tocilizumab subcutaneous treatment over the entire course of the 
study for patients in both body weight groups (below 30 kg and ≥ 30 kg). 
pJIA (subcutaneous) 
A 52-week, open-label, multicenter, PK-PD and safety study was conducted in paediatric patients 
with pJIA, aged 1 to 17 years old, to determine the appropriate subcutaneous dose of tocilizumab 
that achieved comparable PK/PD and safety profiles to the intravenous regimen. 
Eligible patients received tocilizumab dosed according to body weight (BW), with patients 
weighing ≥ 30 kg (n = 25) dosed with 162 mg of tocilizumab every 2 weeks (Q2W) and patients 
weighing below 30 kg (n = 27) dosed with 162 mg of tocilizumab every 3 weeks (Q3W) for 
52 weeks. Of these 52 patients, 37 (71%) were naive to tocilizumab and 15 (29%) had been 
receiving tocilizumab intravenous and switched to tocilizumab subcutaneous at baseline. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The tocilizumab subcutaneous regimens of 162 mg Q3W for patients weighing below 30 kg and of 
162 mg Q2W for patients weighing ≥ 30 kg respectively provide PK exposure and PD responses to 
support efficacy and safety outcomes similar to those achieved with the approved tocilizumab 
intravenous regimens for pJIA. 
Exploratory efficacy results showed that tocilizumab subcutaneous improved median Juvenile 
Arthritis Disease Activity Score (JADAS)-71 for tocilizumab naïve patients and maintained the 
median JADAS-71 for patients who switched from intravenous to subcutaneous tocilizumab 
treatment over the entire course of the study for patients in both body weight groups (below 30 kg 
and ≥ 30 kg). 
GCA (subcutaneous) 
Clinical efficacy 
Study WA28119 was a randomized, multi-center, double-blind placebo-controlled Phase III 
superiority study conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of tocilizumab in patients with GCA. 
Two hundred and fifty one (251) patients with new-onset or relapsing GCA were enrolled and 
assigned to one of four treatment arms. The study consisted of a 52-week blinded period (Part 1), 
followed by a 104-week open-label extension (Part 2). The purpose of Part 2 was to describe the 
long-term safety and maintenance of efficacy after 52 weeks of tocilizumab therapy, to explore the 
rate of relapse and the requirement for tocilizumab therapy beyond 52 weeks, and to gain insight 
into the potential long-term steroid-sparing effect of tocilizumab. 
Two subcutaneous doses of tocilizumab (162 mg every week and 162 mg every other week) were 
compared to two different placebo control groups randomised 2:1:1:1. 
All patients received background glucocorticoid (prednisone) therapy. Each of the tocilizumab-
treated groups and one of the placebo-treated groups followed a pre-specified prednisone-taper 
regimen over 26 weeks, while the second placebo-treated group followed a pre-specified 
prednisone-taper regimen over 52 weeks, designed to be more in keeping with standard practice. 
The duration of glucocorticoid therapy during screening and before tocilizumab (or placebo) was 
initiated, was similar in all 4 treatment groups (see Table 3). 
Table 3: Duration of corticosteroid therapy during screening in study WA28119 
Placebo  
+ 26 weeks 
prednisone 
taper 
N=50 
Placebo  
+ 52 weeks 
prednisone 
taper 
N=51 
Tocilizumab 
162 mg SC 
weekly  
+ 26 weeks 
prednisone taper 
N=100 
Tocilizumab 
162 mg SC every 
other weekly + 
26 weeks 
prednisone taper 
N=49 
Duration (days) 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min-Max 
35.7 (11.5) 
42.0 
6 - 63 
36.3 
(12.5) 
41.0 
12 – 82 
35.6 (13.2) 
37.4 (14.4) 
41.0 
1 - 87 
42.0 
9 – 87 
The primary efficacy endpoint assessed by the proportion of patients achieving steroid free 
sustained remission at week 52 on tocilizumab plus 26 weeks prednisone taper compared with 
placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone taper, was met (Table 4). 
The key secondary efficacy endpoint also based on the proportion of patients achieving sustained 
remission at week 52, comparing tocilizumab plus 26 weeks prednisone taper with placebo plus 
52 weeks prednisone taper, was also met (Table 4). 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
A statistically significant superior treatment effect was seen in favour of tocilizumab over placebo 
in achieving steroid-free sustained remission at week 52 on tocilizumab plus 26 weeks prednisone 
taper compared with placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone taper and with placebo plus 52 weeks 
prednisone taper. 
The percentage of patients achieving sustained remission at week 52, are shown in the Table 4. 
Secondary Endpoints 
The assessment of the time to first GCA flare showed a significantly lower risk of flare for the 
tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly group compared to placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone and 
placebo plus 52 weeks prednisone taper groups and for the tocilizumab subcutaneous every other 
weekly group compared to placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone (when compared at a 0.01 
significance level). Tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly dose also showed a clinically meaningful 
decrease in the risk for flare compared to placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone in patients who entered 
the study with relapsing GCA as well as those with new-onset disease (Table 4). 
Cumulative glucocorticoid dose 
The cumulative prednisone dose at week 52 was significantly lower in the two tocilizumab dose 
groups compared to the two placebo groups (Table 4). In a separate analysis of the patients who 
received escape prednisone to treat GCA flare during the first 52 weeks, the cumulative prednisone 
dose varied greatly. The median doses for escape patients in the tocilizumab weekly and every 
other weekly groups were 3 129.75 mg and 3 847 mg, respectively. Both considerably lower than 
in the placebo plus 26 weeks and the placebo plus 52 weeks prednisone taper groups, 4 023.5 mg 
and 5 389.5 mg respectively. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Efficacy results from study WA28119 
Placebo + 26 
weeks 
prednisone 
taper 
N=50 
Placebo + 
52 weeks 
prednisone 
taper 
N=51 
Tocilizumab  
162 mg SC 
weekly + 
26 weeks 
prednisone  
taper 
N=100 
Tocilizumab  
162 mg SC 
every other 
week + 
26 weeks 
prednisone taper 
N=49 
N/A 
N/A 
7 (14%) 
7 (14%) 
N/A 
Primary Endpoint 
****Sustained remission (Tocilizumab groups vs Placebo+
Responders at Week 52, n (%) 
Unadjusted difference in proportions 
 (99.5% CI) 
Key Secondary Endpoint 
Sustained remission (Tocilizumab groups vs Placebo+52)  
Responders at Week 52, n (%) 
Unadjusted difference in proportions 
(99.5% CI) 
Other Secondary Endpoints 
Time  to  first  GCA  flare1  (Tocilizumab 
groups vs Placebo+26) 
                   HR (99% CI)  
Time to first GCA flare1 (Tocilizumab 
groups vs Placebo+52) 
                  HR (99% CI)   
Time to first GCA flare1 (Relapsing 
patients; Tocilizumab groups vs 
Placebo +26) HR (99% CI) 
Time to first GCA flare1 (Relapsing 
patients; Tocilizumab groups vs 
Placebo + 52) HR (99% CI) 
Time to first GCA flare1 (New-onset 
patients; Tocilizumab groups vs 
Placebo +26) HR (99% CI) 
Time to first GCA flare1 (New-onset 
patients; Tocilizumab groups vs 
Placebo + 52) HR (99% CI) 
Cumulative glucocorticoid dose (mg) 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
 +26 
9 (17.6%)  56 (56%) 
N/A 
42%* 
(18.00, 66.00) 
9 (17.6%)  56 (56%) 
38.35%* 
N/A 
(17.89, 58.81) 
26 (53.1%) 
39.06%* 
(12.46, 65.66) 
26 (53.1%) 
35.41%** 
(10.41 ,60.41) 
0.23* 
(0.11, 0.46) 
0.28** 
(0.12, 0.66) 
0.39** 
(0.18, 0.82)  
0.48 
(0.20, 1.16)  
0.23*** 
(0.09,0.61) 
0.42 
(0.14, 1.28) 
0.36 
(0.13, 1.00) 
0.67 
(0.21,2.10) 
0.25*** 
(0.09, 0.70) 
0.20*** 
(0.05, 0.76) 
0.44 
(0.14, 1.32) 
0.35 
(0.09, 1.42) 
median at Week 52 (Tocilizumab 
groups vs Placebo+262) 
3296.00 
N/A 
1862.00* 
1862.00* 
median 
(Tocilizumab 
Placebo +522) 
at  Week 
groups 
52 
vs 
N/A 
3817.50 
1862.00* 
1862.00* 
1.30 
(1.84) 
0.41 
(0.78) 
1.74 
(2.18) 
Exploratory Endpoints 
Annualized relapse rate, Week 52§ 
Mean (SD) 
* p<0.0001 
** p<0.005 (threshold for significance for primary and key secondary tests of superiority) 
***Descriptive p value <0.005  
****Flare: recurrence of GCA signs or symptoms and/or ESR ≥ 30 mm/h – Increase in the prednisone dose required 
Remission: absence of flare and normalization of the CRP 
Sustained remission: remission from week 12 to week 52 –Patients must adhere to the protocol-defined prednisone taper 
1 analysis of the time (in days) between clinical remission and first disease flare 
2 p-values are determined using a Van Elteren analysis for non-parametric data 
§ statistical analyses has not been performed 
N/A= Not applicable 
HR = Hazard Ratio 
CI = Confidence Interval 
0.67 
(1.10) 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quality of Life Outcomes 
In study WA28119, the SF-36 results were separated into the physical and mental component 
summary scores (PCS and MCS, respectively). The PCS mean change from baseline to week 52 was 
higher (showing more improvement) in the tocilizumab weekly and every other weekly dose groups 
[4.10, 2.76, respectively] than in the two placebo groups [placebo plus 26 weeks; -0.28, placebo plus 
52 weeks; -1.49], although only the comparison between tocilizumab weekly plus 26 weeks 
prednisone taper group and placebo plus 52 weeks prednisone taper group (5.59, 99% CI: 8.6, 
10.32) showed a statistically significant difference (p=0.0024). For MCS, the mean change from 
baseline to week 52 for both tocilizumab weekly and every other weekly dose groups [7.28, 6.12, 
respectively] were higher than the placebo plus 52 weeks prednisone taper group [2.84] (although 
the differences were not statistically significant [weekly p=0.0252 for weekly, p=0.1468 for every 
other weekly]) and similar to the placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone taper group [6.67]. 
The Patient’s Global Assessment of disease activity was assessed on a 0-100 mm Visual Analogue 
Scale (VAS). The mean change in Patient’s global VAS from baseline at week 52 was lower 
(showing greater improvement) in the tocilizumab weekly and every other weekly dose groups  
[-19.0, -25.3, respectively] than in both placebo groups [placebo plus 26 weeks -3.4, placebo plus 
52 weeks -7.2], although only the tocilizumab every other weekly plus 26 weeks prednisone taper 
group showed a statistically significant difference compared to placebo [placebo plus 26 weeks 
taper p=0.0059, and placebo plus 52 weeks taper p=0.0081]. 
FACIT-Fatigue change from baseline to week 52 scores were calculated for all groups. The mean 
[SD] change scores were as follows: tocilizumab weekly plus 26 weeks 5.61 [10.115], tocilizumab 
every other weekly plus 26 weeks 1.81 [8.836], placebo plus 26 weeks 0.26 [10.702], and placebo 
plus 52 weeks -1.63 [6.753]. 
Change in EQ5D scores from baseline to week 52 were tocilizumab weekly plus 26 weeks 0.10 
[0.198], tocilizumab every other weekly plus 26 weeks 0.05 [0.215], placebo plus 26 weeks 0.07 
[0.293], and placebo plus 52 weeks -0.02 [0.159]. 
Higher scores signal improvement in both FACIT-Fatigue and EQ5D. 
Intravenous use  
RA  
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of tocilizumab in alleviating the signs and symptoms of RA was assessed in five 
randomised, double-blind, multi-centre studies. Studies I-V enrolled patients ≥ 18 years of age with 
active RA diagnosed according to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria and who 
had at least eight tender and six swollen joints at baseline. 
In Study I, tocilizumab was administered intravenously every four weeks as monotherapy. In 
Studies II, III and V, tocilizumab was administered intravenously every four weeks in combination 
with MTX vs. placebo and MTX. In Study IV, tocilizumab was administered intravenously every 
4 weeks in combination with other DMARDs vs. placebo and other DMARDs. The primary 
endpoint for each of the five studies was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR 20 
response at week 24. 
Study I evaluated 673 patients who had not been treated with MTX within six months prior to 
randomisation and who had not discontinued previous MTX treatment as a result of clinically 
important toxic effects or lack of response. The majority (67%) of patients were MTX-naïve. Doses 
of 8 mg/kg of tocilizumab were given every four weeks as monotherapy. The comparator group 
was weekly MTX (dose titrated from 7.5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg weekly over an eight week 
period). 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study II, a two year study with planned analyses at week 24, week 52 and week 104, evaluated 
1 196 patients who had an inadequate clinical response to MTX. Doses of 4 or 8 mg/kg of 
tocilizumab or placebo were given every four weeks as blinded therapy for 52 weeks in 
combination with stable MTX (10 mg to 25 mg weekly). After week 52, all patients could 
receive open-label treatment with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg. Of the patients who completed the study 
who were originally randomised to placebo + MTX, 86% received open-label tocilizumab 
8 mg/kg in year 2. The primary endpoint at week 24 was the proportion of patients who achieved 
an ACR 20 response. At week 52 and week 104 the co-primary endpoints were prevention of 
joint damage and improvement in physical function. 
Study III evaluated 623 patients who had an inadequate clinical response to MTX. Doses of 4 or 
8 mg/kg tocilizumab or placebo were given every four weeks, in combination with stable MTX 
(10 mg to 25 mg weekly). 
Study IV evaluated 1 220 patients who had an inadequate response to their existing rheumatologic 
therapy, including one or more DMARDs. Doses of 8 mg/kg tocilizumab or placebo were given 
every four weeks in combination with stable DMARDs. 
Study V evaluated 499 patients who had an inadequate clinical response or were intolerant to one 
or more TNF antagonist therapies. The TNF antagonist therapy was discontinued prior to 
randomisation. Doses of 4 or 8 mg/kg tocilizumab or placebo were given every four weeks in 
combination with stable MTX (10 mg to 25 mg weekly). 
Clinical response  
In all studies, patients treated with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg had statistically significant higher ACR 20, 
50, 70 response rates at 6 months compared to control (Table 5). In study I, superiority of 
tocilizumab 8 mg/kg was demonstrated against the active comparator MTX. 
The treatment effect was similar in patients independent of rheumatoid factor status, age, gender, 
race, number of prior treatments or disease status. Time to onset was rapid (as early as week 2) and 
the magnitude of response continued to improve with duration of treatment. Continued durable 
responses were seen for over 3 years in the open label extension studies I-V. 
In patients treated with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg, significant improvements were noted on all individual 
components of the ACR response including: tender and swollen joint counts; patients and physician 
global assessment; disability index scores; pain assessment and CRP compared to patients 
receiving placebo plus MTX or other DMARDs in all studies. 
Patients in studies I – V had a mean Disease Activity Score (DAS28) of 6.5–6.8 at baseline. 
Significant reduction in DAS28 from baseline (mean improvement) of 3.1–3.4 was observed in 
tocilizumab-treated patients compared to control patients (1.3-2.1). The proportion of patients 
achieving a DAS28 clinical remission (DAS28 < 2.6) was significantly higher in patients receiving 
tocilizumab (28–34%) compared to 1–12% of control patients at 24 weeks. In study II, 65% of 
patients achieved a DAS28 < 2.6 at week 104 compared to 48% at 52 weeks and 33% of patients at 
week 24. 
In a pooled analysis of studies II, III and IV, the proportion of patients achieving an ACR 20, 50 
and 70 response was significantly higher (59% vs. 50%, 37% vs. 27%, 18% vs. 11%, respectively) 
in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARD vs. the tocilizumab 4 mg/kg plus DMARD group 
(p<0.03). Similarly the proportion of patients achieving a DAS 28 remission (DAS28 < 2.6) was 
significantly higher (31% vs. 16% respectively) in patients receiving tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus 
DMARD than in patients receiving tocilizumab 4 mg/kg plus DMARD (p<0.0001). 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: ACR responses in placebo-/MTX-/DMARDs-controlled studies (% patients) 
Study I  
AMBITION 
Study II  
LITHE 
Study III  
OPTION 
Study IV  
TOWARD 
Study V  
RADIATE 
Week  TCZ  MTX  TCZ 
PBO  TCZ 
PBO  TCZ 
PBO +  TCZ 
PBO + 
8 mg/kg   
8 mg/kg  + MTX  8 mg/kg  + MTX  8 mg/kg  DMARD  8 mg/kg  MTX 
+ 
+ MTX 
DMARD   
+ MTX   
+ MTX   
N=286  N=284  N=398  N=393  N=205  N=204  N=803  N=413  N=170  N=158 
ACR 20 
24 
70%***  52% 
56%***  27% 
59%***  26% 
61%***  24% 
50%***  10% 
52 
56%***  25% 
ACR 50 
24 
44%**  33% 
32%***  10% 
44%***  11% 
38%***  9% 
29%***  4% 
52 
36%***  10% 
ACR 70 
24 
28%**  15% 
13%***  2% 
22%***  2% 
21%***  3% 
12%**  1% 
52 
20%***  4% 
- Tocilizumab 
TCZ 
- Methotrexate 
MTX 
PBO 
- Placebo 
DMARD  - Disease modifying anti-rheumatic drug 
** 
*** 
- p< 0.01, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX/DMARD 
- p< 0.0001, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX/DMARD 
Major clinical response 
After 2 years of treatment with tocilizumab plus MTX, 14% of patients achieved a major clinical 
response (maintenance of an ACR70 response for 24 weeks or more). 
Radiographic response 
In Study II, in patients with an inadequate response to MTX, inhibition of structural joint damage 
was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in modified Sharp score and its 
components, the erosion score and joint space narrowing score. Inhibition of joint structural 
damage was shown with significantly less radiographic progression in patients receiving 
tocilizumab compared to control (Table 6). 
In the open-label extension of Study II the inhibition of progression of structural joint damage in 
tocilizumab plus MTX-treated patients was maintained in the second year of treatment. The mean 
change from baseline at week 104 in total Sharp-Genant score was significantly lower for patients 
randomised to tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus MTX (p<0.0001) compared with patients who were 
randomised to placebo plus MTX. 
Table 6: Radiographic mean changes over 52 weeks in study II 
PBO + MTX(+ TCZ from week 24) 
N = 393 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX  
N = 398 
1.13 
0.71 
0.42 
0.29* 
0.17* 
0.12** 
Total Sharp-Genant score 
Erosion score 
JSN score 
PBO 
MTX 
TCZ 
JSN 
* 
** 
- Placebo 
- Methotrexate 
- Tocilizumab 
- Joint space narrowing 
- p≤ 0.0001, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX 
- p< 0.005, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Following 1 year of treatment with tocilizumab plus MTX, 85% of patients(n=348) had no 
progression of structural joint damage, as defined by a change in the Total Sharp Score of zero or 
less, compared with 67% of placebo plus MTX-treated patients(n=290) (p ≤0.001). This remained 
consistent following 2 years of treatment (83%; n=353). Ninety three percent (93%; n=271) of 
patients had no progression between week 52 and week 104. 
Health-related and quality of life outcomes 
Tocilizumab-treated patients reported an improvement in all patient-reported outcomes (Health 
Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index - HAQ-DI), Short Form-36 and Functional Assessment 
of Chronic Illness Therapy questionnaires. Statistically significant improvements in HAQ-DI 
scores were observed in patients treated with tocilizumab compared with patients treated with 
DMARDs. During the open-label period of Study II, the improvement in physical function has 
been maintained for up to 2 years. At Week 52, the mean change in HAQ-DI was -0.58 in the 
tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus MTX group compared with -0.39 in the placebo + MTX group. The 
mean change in HAQ-DI was maintained at Week 104 in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus MTX group 
(-0.61). 
Haemoglobin levels 
Statistically significant improvements in haemoglobin levels were observed with tocilizumab 
compared with DMARDs (p< 0.0001) at week 24. Mean haemoglobin levels increased by week 2 
and remained within normal range through to week 24. 
Tocilizumab versus adalimumab in monotherapy 
Study VI (WA19924), a 24 week double-blinded study that compared tocilizumab monotherapy 
with adalimumab monotherapy, evaluated 326 patients with RA who were intolerant of MTX or 
where continued treatment with MTX was considered inappropriate (including MTX inadequate 
responders). Patients in the tocilizumab arm received an intravenous  infusion of tocilizumab 
(8 mg/kg) every 4 weeks (q4w) and a subcutaneous placebo injection every 2 weeks (q2w). Patients 
in the adalimumab arm received an adalimumab subcutaneous injection (40 mg) q2w plus an 
intravenous placebo infusion q4w. 
A statistically significant superior treatment effect was seen in favour of tocilizumab over 
adalimumab in control of disease activity from baseline to week 24 for the primary endpoint of 
change in DAS28 and for all secondary endpoints (Table 7). 
Table 7: Efficacy results for study VI (WA19924) 
ADA + Placebo 
(IV) 
N = 162 
TCZ + Placebo 
(SC) 
N = 163 
p-value(a) 
Primary Endpoint - Mean Change from baseline at Week 24 
DAS28 (adjusted mean) 
-1.8 
-3.3 
Difference in adjusted mean (95% CI) 
Secondary Endpoints - Percentage of Responders at Week 24 (b)
-1.5 (-1.8, -1.1) 
DAS28 < 2.6, n (%) 
DAS28 ≤ 3.2, n (%) 
ACR20 response, n (%) 
ACR50 response, n (%) 
ACR70 response, n (%) 
17 (10.5) 
32 (19.8) 
80 (49.4) 
45 (27.8) 
29 (17.9) 
65 (39.9) 
84 (51.5) 
106 (65.0) 
77 (47.2) 
53 (32.5) 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
0.0038 
0.0002 
0.0023 
ap value is adjusted for region and duration of RA for all endpoints and additionally baseline value for all continuous 
endpoints. 
b
 Non-responder Imputation used for missing data. Multiplicity controlled using Bonferroni-Holm Procedure 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
The overall clinical adverse event profile was similar between tocilizumab and adalimumab. The 
proportion of patients with serious adverse events was balanced between the treatment groups 
(tocilizumab 11.7% vs. adalimumab 9.9%). The types of adverse drug reactions in the tocilizumab 
arm were consistent with the known safety profile of tocilizumab and adverse drug reactions were 
reported at a similar frequency compared with Table 1. A higher incidence of infections and 
infestations was reported in the tocilizumab arm (48% vs. 42%), with no difference in the incidence 
of serious infections (3.1%). Both study treatments induced the same pattern of changes in 
laboratory safety parameters (decreases in neutrophil and platelet counts, increases in ALT, AST 
and lipids), however, the magnitude of change and the frequency of marked abnormalities was 
higher with tocilizumab compared with adalimumab. Four (2.5%) patients in the tocilizumab arm 
and two (1.2%) patients in the adalimumab arm experienced CTC grade 3 or 4 neutrophil count 
decreases. Eleven (6.8%) patients in the tocilizumab arm and five (3.1%) patients in the 
adalimumab arm experienced ALT increases of CTC grade 2 or higher. The mean LDL increase 
from baseline was 0.64 mmol/L (25 mg/dL) for patients in the tocilizumab arm and 0.19 mmol/L 
(7 mg/dL) for patients in the adalimumab arm. The safety observed in the tocilizumab arm was 
consistent with the known safety profile of tocilizumab and no new or unexpected adverse drug 
reactions were observed (see Table 1). 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab is characterized by nonlinear elimination which is a 
combination of linear clearance and Michaelis-Menten elimination. The nonlinear part of 
tocilizumab elimination leads to an increase in exposure that is more than dose-proportional. The 
pharmacokinetic parameters of tocilizumab do not change with time. Due to the dependence of total 
clearance on tocilizumab serum concentrations, the half-life of tocilizumab is also concentration-
dependent and varies depending on the serum concentration level. Population pharmacokinetic 
analyses in any patient population tested so far indicate no relationship between apparent clearance 
and the presence of anti-drug antibodies. 
RA  
Intravenous use  
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab were determined using a population pharmacokinetic analysis 
on a database composed of 3 552 RA patients treated with a one-hour infusion of 4 or 8 mg/kg 
tocilizumab every 4 weeks for 24 weeks or with 162 mg tocilizumab given subcutaneously either 
once a week or every other week for 24 weeks. 
The following parameters (predicted mean ± SD) were estimated for a dose of 8 mg/kg tocilizumab 
given every 4 weeks: steady-state area under curve (AUC) = 38 000 ± 13000 h µg/mL, trough 
concentration (Cmin) = 15.9 ± 13.1 µg/mL and maximum concentration (Cmax) = 182 ± 50.4 µg/mL, 
and the accumulation ratios for AUC and Cmax were small, 1.32 and 1.09, respectively. The 
accumulation ratio was higher for Cmin (2.49), which was expected based on the non-linear 
clearance contribution at lower concentrations. Steady-state was reached following the first 
administration for Cmax and after 8 and 20 weeks for AUC and Cmin, respectively. Tocilizumab 
AUC, Cmin and Cmax increased with increase of body weight. At body weight ≥ 100 kg, the 
predicted mean (± SD) steady-state AUC, Cmin and Cmax of tocilizumab were 
50 000 ± 16 800 μg.h/mL, 24.4 ± 17.5 μg/mL, and 226 ± 50.3 μg/mL, respectively, which are 
higher than mean exposure values for the patient population (i.e. all body weights) reported above. 
The dose-response curve for tocilizumab flattens at higher exposure, resulting in smaller efficacy 
gains for each incremental increase in tocilizumab concentration such that clinically meaningful 
increases in efficacy were not demonstrated in patients treated with > 800 mg of tocilizumab. 
Therefore, tocilizumab doses exceeding 800 mg per infusion are not recommended (see section 
4.2). 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution  
In RA patients the central volume of distribution was 3.72 L, the peripheral volume of distribution 
was 3.35 L resulting in a volume of distribution at steady state of 7.07 L. 
Elimination  
Following intravenous administration, tocilizumab undergoes biphasic elimination from the 
circulation. The total clearance of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent and is the sum of the 
linear and non-linear clearance. The linear clearance was estimated as a parameter in the population 
pharmacokinetic analysis and was 9.5 mL/h. The concentration-dependent non-linear clearance 
plays a major role at low tocilizumab concentrations. Once the non-linear clearance pathway is 
saturated, at higher tocilizumab concentrations, clearance is mainly determined by the linear 
clearance. 
The t1/2 of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent. At steady-state following a dose of 8 mg/kg 
every 4 weeks, the effective t1/2 decreased with decreasing concentrations within a dosing interval 
from 18 days to 6 days. 
Linearity  
Pharmacokinetic parameters of tocilizumab did not change with time. A more than dose-
proportional increase in the AUC and Cmin was observed for doses of 4 and 8 mg/kg every 4 weeks. 
Cmax increased dose-proportionally. At steady-state, predicted AUC and Cmin were 3.2 and 30 fold 
higher at 8 mg/kg as compared to 4 mg/kg, respectively. 
Subcutaneous use  
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab were determined using a population pharmacokinetic analysis 
on a database composed of 3 552 RA patients treated with 162 mg subcutaneous every week, 
162 mg subcutaneous every other week, and or 4 or 8 mg/kg intravenous every 4 weeks for 
24 weeks. 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of tocilizumab did not change with time. For the 162 mg every 
week dose, the predicted mean (±SD) steady-state AUC1week, Cmin and Cmax of tocilizumab were 
7970 ± 3432 µg.h/mL, 43.0 ± 19.8 µg/mL, and 49.8 ± 21.0 µg/mL, respectively. The accumulation 
ratios for AUC, Cmin,
after 12 weeks for AUC, Cmin, and Cmax. 
 and Cmax were 6.32, 6.30, and 5.27, respectively. Steady state was reached 
For the 162 mg every other week dose, the predicted mean (±SD) steady-state AUC2week, Cmin, and 
Cmax of tocilizumab were 3 430 ± 2 660 µg.h/mL, 5.7 ± 6.8 µg/mL, and 13.2 ± 8.8 µg/mL, 
respectively. The accumulation ratios for AUC, Cmin, and Cmax were 2.67, 6.02, and 2.12, 
respectively. Steady state was reached after 12 weeks for AUC and Cmin, and after 10 weeks for 
Cmax. 
Absorption  
Following subcutaneous dosing in RA patients, the time to peak serum tocilizumab concentrations 
tmax was 2.8 days. The bioavailability for the subcutaneous formulation was 79%. 
Elimination  
For subcutaneous administration, the effective t1/2 is up to 13 days for 162 mg every week and 
5 days for 162 mg every other week in patients with RA at steady-state. 
sJIA  
Subcutaneous Use  
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab in sJIA patients was characterized by a population 
pharmacokinetic analysis which included 140 patients who were treated with 8 mg/kg 
intravenously every 2 weeks (patients weighing ≥ 30 kg), 12 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(patients weighing below 30 kg), 162 mg subcutaneously every week (patients weighing ≥ 30 kg), 
162 mg subcutaneously every 10 days or every 2 weeks (patients weighing below 30 kg). 
Limited data are available regarding exposures following subcutaneous administration of 
tocilizumab in sJIA patients below 2 years of age with a body weight less than 10 kg. 
Patients with sJIA must have a minimum body weight of 10 kg when receiving tocilizumab 
subcutaneously (see section 4.2). 
Table 8: Predicted mean ± SD PK parameters at steady-state after subcutaneous dosing in sJIA 
Tocilizumab PK Parameter 
162 mg QW ≥ 30 kg 
162 mg Q2W below 30 kg 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Cmin (µg/mL) 
Cmean (µg/mL) 
Accumulation Cmax 
Accumulation Cmin 
99.8 ± 46.2 
79.2 ± 35.6 
91.3 ± 40.4 
3.66 
4.39 
Accumulation Cmean or AUCτ*  4.28 
*τ = 1 week or 2 weeks for the two subcutaneous regimens 
134 ± 58.6 
65.9 ± 31.3 
101 ± 43.2 
1.88 
3.21 
2.27 
After subcutaneous dosing, approximately 90% of the steady-state was reached by week 12 for 
both the 162 mg QW and Q2W regimens. 
Absorption  
Following subcutaneous dosing in sJIA patients, the absorption half-life was around 2 days, and the 
bioavailability for the subcutaneous formulation in sJIA patients was 95%. 
Distribution  
In paediatric patients with sJIA, the central volume of distribution was 1.87 L, the peripheral 
volume of distribution was 2.14 L resulting in a volume of distribution at steady state of 4.01 L. 
Elimination  
The total clearance of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent and is the sum of the linear 
clearance and the nonlinear clearance. The linear clearance was estimated as a parameter in the 
population pharmacokinetic analysis and was 5.7 mL/h in paediatric patients with systemic juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis. Following subcutaneous administration, the effective t1/2 of tocilizumab in sJIA 
patients is up to 14 days for both the 162 mg QW and Q2W regimens during a dosing interval at 
steady state. 
pJIA  
Subcutaneous use  
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab in pJIA patients was characterized by a population 
pharmacokinetic analysis which included 237 patients who were treated with 8 mg/kg 
intravenously every 4 weeks (patients weighing ≥ 30 kg), 10 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks 
(patients weighing below 30 kg), 162 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks (patients weighing 
≥ 30 kg), or 162 mg subcutaneously every 3 weeks (patients weighing below 30 kg). 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Predicted mean ± SD PK parameters at steady-state after subcutaneous dosing in pJIA 
Tocilizumab PK Parameter 
162 mg Q2W ≥ 30 kg 
162 mg Q3W below 30 kg 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Cmin (µg/mL) 
Cavg (µg/mL) 
Accumulation Cmax 
Accumulation Cmin 
29.4 ± 13.5 
11.8 ± 7.08 
21.7 ± 10.4 
1.72 
3.58 
Accumulation Cmean or AUCτ * 2.04 
*τ = 2 week or 3 week for the two subcutaneous regimens 
75.5 ± 24.1 
18.4 ± 12.9 
45.5 ± 19.8 
1.32 
2.08 
1.46 
After intravenous dosing, approximately 90% of the steady-state was reached by Week 12 for the 
10 mg/kg (BW < 30 kg), and by Week 16 for the 8 mg/kg (BW ≥ 30 kg) dose. After subcutaneous 
dosing, approximately 90% of the steady-state was reached by Week 12 for both the 162 mg 
subcutaneous Q2W and Q3W regimens. 
Absorption  
Following subcutaneous dosing in pJIA patients, the absorption half-life was around 2 days, and 
the bioavailability for the subcutaneous formulation in pJIA patients was 96%. 
Distribution  
In paediatric patients with pJIA, the central volume of distribution was 1.97 L, the peripheral 
volume of distribution was 2.03 L, resulting in a volume of distribution at steady state of 4.0 L. 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis for pJIA patients showed body size related impact on linear 
clearance so that body-weight based dosing should be taken into consideration (see Table 9). 
After subcutaneous administration, the effective t1/2 of tocilizumab in pJIA patients is up to 
10 days for patients < 30 kg (162 mg subcutaneous Q3W) and up to 7 days for patients ≥ 30 kg 
(162 mg subcutaneous Q2W) during a dosing interval at steady state. Following intravenous 
administration, tocilizumab undergoes biphasic elimination from the circulation. The total 
clearance of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent and is the sum of the linear and non-linear 
clearance. The linear clearance was estimated as a parameter in the population pharmacokinetic 
analysis and was 6.25 mL/h. The concentration-dependent non-linear clearance plays a major role 
at low tocilizumab concentrations. Once the nonlinear clearance pathway is saturated, at higher 
tocilizumab concentrations, clearance is mainly determined by the linear clearance. 
GCA  
Subcutaneous use  
The PK of tocilizumab in GCA patients were determined using a population PK model from an 
analysis dataset composed of 149 GCA patients treated with 162 mg subcutaneous every week or 
162 mg subcutaneous every other week. The developed model had the same structure as the 
population PK model developed earlier based on data from RA patients (see Table 10). 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Predicted mean ± SD PK parameters at steady-state after subcutaneous dosing in GCA 
Tocilizumab PK Parameter 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Cmin (µg/mL) 
Cmean (µg/mL) 
Accumulation Cmax 
Accumulation Cmin 
Accumulation Cmean or AUCτ * 
*τ = 2 week or 1 week for the two subcutaneous regimens 
Subcutaneous 
162 mg every  
other weekly 
162 mg weekly 
19.3 ± 12.8 
73 ± 30.4 
11.1 ± 10.3 
68.1 ± 29.5 
16.2 ± 11.8 
71.3 ± 30.1 
2.18 
5.61 
2.81 
8.88 
9.59 
10.91 
The steady-state profile following the tocilizumab weekly dose was almost flat, with very little 
fluctuations between trough and peak values, while there were substantial fluctuations for the 
tocilizumab every other weekly dose. Approximately 90% of the steady-state (AUCτ) was reached 
by week 14 in the every other weekly and week 17 in the weekly dose groups. 
Based on the current characterization of PK, tocilizumab trough concentration at steady state are 
50% higher in this population relative to average concentrations in a large dataset from the RA 
population. These differences occur due to unknown reasons. PK differences are not accompanied 
by marked differences in PD parameters and so the clinical relevance is unknown. 
In GCA patients, higher exposure was observed in patients with lower body weight. For the 
162 mg every week dosing regimen, the steady-state Cavg was 51% higher in patients with body 
weight less than 60 kg compared to patients weighing between 60 to 100 kg. For the 162 mg every 
other week regimen, the steady-state Cavg was 129% higher in patients with body weight less than 
60 kg compared to patients weighing between 60 to 100 kg. There is limited data for patients above 
100 kg (n=7). 
Absorption 
Following subcutaneous dosing in GCA patients, the absorption t1/2 was around 4 days. The 
bioavailability for the subcutaneous formulation was 0.8. The median values of Tmax were 3 days 
after the tocilizumab weekly dose and 4.5 days after the tocilizumab every other week dose. 
Distribution  
In GCA patients, the central volume of distribution was 4.09 L, the peripheral volume of 
distribution was 3.37 L, resulting in a volume of distribution at steady state of 7.46 L. 
Elimination  
The total clearance of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent and is the sum of the linear 
clearance and the nonlinear clearance. The linear clearance was estimated as a parameter in the 
population pharmacokinetic analysis and was 6.7 mL/h in GCA patients. 
In GCA patients, at steady state, the effective t1/2 of tocilizumab varied between 18.3 and 18.9 days 
for 162 mg weekly regimen, and between 4.2 and 7.9 days for 162 mg every other weekly regimen. 
At high serum concentrations, when total clearance of tocilizumab is dominated by linear 
clearance, an effective t1/2 of approximately 32 days was derived from the population parameter 
estimates. 
69 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations  
Renal impairment  
No formal study of the effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab has been 
conducted. Most of the patients in the RA and GCA studies population pharmacokinetic analysis had 
normal renal function or mild renal impairment. Mild renal impairment (estimated creatinine 
clearance based on Cockcroft-Gault formula ) did not impact the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab. 
Approximately one-third of the patients in the GCA study had moderate renal impairment at 
baseline (estimated creatinine clearance of 30-59 mL/min). No impact on tocilizumab exposure 
was noted in these patients. 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
No formal study of the effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab has 
been conducted. 
Age, gender and ethnicity 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses in RA and GCA patients, showed that age, gender and ethnic 
origin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab. 
Results of the population PK analysis for sJIA and pJIA patients confirmed that body size is the 
only covariate which has an appreciable impact on the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab including 
elimination and absorption so that body-weight based dosing should be taken into consideration 
(see Tables 8 and 9). 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity and toxicity to reproduction and development. 
Carcinogenicity studies were not performed because IgG1 monoclonal antibodies are not deemed 
to have intrinsic carcinogenic potential. 
Available non-clinical data demonstrated the effect of IL-6 on malignant progression and apoptosis 
resistance to various cancer types. This data does not suggest a relevant risk for cancer initiation 
and progression under tocilizumab treatment. Additionally, proliferative lesions were not observed 
in a 6-month chronic toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys or in IL-6 deficient mice. 
Available non-clinical data do not suggest an effect on fertility under tocilizumab treatment. 
Effects on endocrine active and reproductive system organs were not observed in a chronic 
cynomolgus monkey toxicity study and reproductive performance was not affected in IL-6 
deficient mice. Tocilizumab administered to cynomolgus monkeys during early gestation, was 
observed to have no direct or indirect harmful effect on pregnancy or embryonal-foetal 
development. However, a slight increase in abortion/embryonal-foetal death was observed with 
high systemic exposure (> 100 x human exposure) in the 50 mg/kg/day high-dose group compared 
to placebo and other low-dose groups. Although IL-6 does not seem to be a critical cytokine for 
foetal growth or the immunological control of the maternal/foetal interface, a relation of this 
finding to tocilizumab cannot be excluded. 
Treatment with a murine analogue did not exert toxicity in juvenile mice. In particular, there was 
no impairment of skeletal growth, immune function and sexual maturation. 
The non-clinical safety profile of tocilizumab in the cynomolgus monkey does not suggest a 
difference between intravenous and subcutaneous routes of administration. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
L-arginine  
L-histidine  
L-lactic acid  
Sodium chloride  
Polysorbate 80  
Hydrochloric acid (E507) and/or sodium hydroxide (E524) (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2  
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other 
medicinal products. 
6.3 
Shelf life  
3 years 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
A single pre-filled syringe may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25 °C for a single 
period of up to 14 days. The pre-filled syringe must be protected from light, and discarded if not 
used within the 14 day period. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
0.9 mL solution in a pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a staked stainless steel needle with a 
latex-free needle cap, a plunger stopper (bromobutyl rubber), extended finger flanges and a passive 
needle shield. 
Pack sizes of 1, 4 and 12 pre-filled syringes.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Tyenne is supplied in a single use pre-filled syringe fitted into a needle safety device with extended 
finger flanges. After removing the pre-filled syringe from the refrigerator the pre-filled syringe 
should be allowed to reach room temperature by waiting for at least 30 minutes, before injecting 
Tyenne. The syringe should not be shaken.  
After removing the cap the injection must be started right away, to prevent the medicine from 
drying out and blocking the needle. If the pre-filled syringe is not used right away after removing 
the cap, you must dispose of it in a puncture resistant container and use a new pre-filled syringe. 
If following insertion of the needle you cannot depress the plunger, you must dispose of the pre-
filled syringe in a puncture resistant container and use a new pre-filled syringe. 
Do not use if the medicine is cloudy or contains particles, is any colour besides colourless to pale 
yellow, or any part of the pre-filled syringe appears to be damaged.  
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comprehensive instructions for the administration of Tyenne in a pre-filled syringe are given in the 
package leaflet. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1754/007 
EU/1/23/1754/008 
EU/1/23/1754/009 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/DATE OF LATEST RENEWAL 
Date of first authorisation: 15 September 2023 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/.  
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Tyenne 162 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each pre-filled pen contains 162 mg of tocilizumab in 0.9 mL. 
Tocilizumab is a recombinant humanized, anti-human monoclonal antibody of the 
immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) sub-class directed against soluble and membrane-bound interleukin 6 
receptors. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen (injection). 
Clear and colourless to pale yellow solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
Tyenne, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for 
• 
• 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults not 
previously treated with MTX. 
the treatment of moderate to severe active RA in adult patients who have either responded 
inadequately to, or who were intolerant to, previous therapy with one or more disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists. 
In these patients, Tyenne can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where 
continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
Tocilizumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-
ray and to improve physical function when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Tyenne is indicated for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) in 
patients 12 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with 
NSAIDs and systemic corticosteroids (see Section 4.2). Tyenne can be given as monotherapy (in 
case of intolerance to MTX or where treatment with MTX is inappropriate) or in combination with 
MTX. 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tyenne in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of juvenile 
idiopathic polyarthritis (pJIA; rheumatoid factor positive or negative and extended oligoarthritis) in 
patients 12 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with 
MTX (see Section 4.2). 
Tyenne can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment 
with MTX is inappropriate. 
Tyenne is indicated for the treatment of Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) in adult patients. 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Tyenne subcutaneous formulation is administered with a single-use pre-filled pen. Treatment 
should be initiated by healthcare professionals experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of RA, 
sJIA, pJIA and/or GCA. 
The pre-filled pen should not be used to treat paediatric patients < 12 years of age since there is a 
potential risk of intramuscular injection due to thinner subcutaneous tissue layer. 
The first injection should be performed under the supervision of a qualified healthcare professional. 
A patient or parent/guardian can inject Tyenne only if the physician determines that it is 
appropriate and the patient or parent/guardian agrees to medical follow-up as necessary and has 
been trained in proper injection technique. 
Patients who transition from tocilizumab intravenous therapy to subcutaneous administration 
should administer the first subcutaneous dose at the time of the next scheduled intravenous dose 
under the supervision of a qualified health care professional. 
All patients treated with Tyenne should be given the Patient Alert Card. 
Suitability of the patient or parent/guardian for subcutaneous home use should be assessed and 
patients or their parent/guardian should be instructed to inform a healthcare professional before 
administering the next dose if they experience symptoms of an allergic reaction. Patients should 
seek immediate medical attention if developing symptoms of serious allergic reactions (see section 
4.4). 
Posology 
RA 
The recommended posology is subcutaneous 162 mg once every week. 
Limited information is available regarding switching patients from tocilizumab intravenous 
formulation to tocilizumab subcutaneous fixed dose formulation. The once every week dosing 
interval should be followed. 
Patients transitioning from intravenous to subcutaneous formulation should administer their first 
subcutaneous dose instead of the next scheduled intravenous dose under the supervision of a 
qualified healthcare professional. 
GCA 
The recommended posology is subcutaneous 162 mg once every week in combination with a 
tapering course of glucocorticoids. Tyenne can be used alone following discontinuation of 
glucocorticoids. Tyenne monotherapy should not be used for the treatment of acute relapses (see 
4.4). 
Based upon the chronic nature of GCA, treatment beyond 52 weeks should be guided by disease 
activity, physician discretion, and patient choice. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RA and GCA  
Dose adjustments due to laboratory abnormalities (see section 4.4). 
•  Liver enzyme abnormalities 
Laboratory Value 
> 1 to 3 x Upper 
Limit of Normal 
(ULN) 
Action 
Dose modify concomitant DMARDs (RA) or immunomodulatory agents 
(GCA) if appropriate. 
For persistent increases in this range, reduce Tyenne dose frequency to every 
other week injection or interrupt Tyenne until alanine  aminotransferase (ALT) 
or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) have normalised. 
Restart with weekly or every other week injection, as clinically appropriate. 
> 3 to 5 x ULN 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing until <3 x ULN and follow recommendations above 
for > 1 to 3 x ULN. 
For persistent increases > 3 x ULN (confirmed by repeat testing, see 4.4.), 
discontinue Tyenne. 
> 5 x ULN 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
•  Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
In patients not previously treated with tocilizumab, initiation is not recommended in patients with 
an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) below 2 x 109/L. 
Laboratory Value  
(cells x 109/ L ) 
Action 
ANC > 1 
Maintain dose. 
ANC 0.5 to 1 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing. 
When ANC increases > 1 x 109/ L resume Tyenne dosing every other week 
and increase to every week injection, as clinically appropriate. 
ANC < 0.5 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
•  Low platelet count 
Laboratory Value  
(cells x 103/ μL) 
50 to 100 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing. 
Action 
When platelet count > 100 x 103/ μL resume Tyenne dosing every other week 
and increase to every week injection as clinically appropriate. 
< 50 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RA and GCA  
Missed dose 
If a patient misses a subcutaneous weekly injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled dose, 
he/she should be instructed to take the missed dose on the next scheduled day. If a patient misses a 
subcutaneous once every other week injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled dose, 
he/she should be instructed to take the missed dose immediately and the next dose on the next 
scheduled day. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients > 65 years of age. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Tocilizumab 
has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (see section 5.2). Renal function 
should be monitored closely in these patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
Tocilizumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Therefore, no dose 
recommendations can be made. 
Paediatric patients 
The safety and efficacy of tocilizumab subcutaneous formulation in children from birth to less than 
1 year have not been established. No data are available. 
A change in dose should only be based on a consistent change in the patient’s body weight over 
time. Tocilizumab can be used alone or in combination with MTX. 
sJIA Patients 
The recommended posology in patients above 12 years of age is 162 mg subcutaneously once 
every week in patients weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg or 162 mg subcutaneously once 
every 2 weeks in patients weighing less than 30 kg. 
The pre-filled pen should not be used to treat paediatric patients < 12 years of age. 
Patients must have a minimum body weight of 10 kg when receiving Tyenne subcutaneously. 
pJIA Patients 
The recommended posology in patients above 12 years of age is 162 mg subcutaneously once 
every 2 weeks in patients weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg or 162 mg subcutaneously once 
every 3 weeks in patients weighing less than 30 kg. 
The pre-filled pen should not be used to treat paediatric patients < 12 years of age.  
Dose adjustments due to laboratory abnormalities (sJIA and pJIA) 
If appropriate, the dose of concomitant MTX and/or other medicines should be modified or dosing 
stopped and tocilizumab dosing interrupted until the clinical situation has been evaluated. As there 
are many co-morbid conditions that may affect laboratory values in sJIA or pJIA, the decision to 
discontinue Tyenne for a laboratory abnormality should be based upon the medical assessment of 
the individual patient. 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Liver enzyme abnormalities 
Laboratory  
Value 
Action 
> 1 to 3 x ULN 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
For persistent increases in this range, interrupt Tyenne until ALT/AST have 
normalized. 
> 3 x ULN to 5x 
ULN 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing until < 3x ULN and follow recommendations above 
for > 1 to 3x ULN 
> 5x ULN 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in sJIA or pJIA for a laboratory 
abnormality should be based on the medical assessment of the individual 
patient. 
•  Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
Laboratory Value  
(cells x 109/ L ) 
Action 
ANC > 1 
Maintain dose 
ANC 0.5 to 1 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
When ANC increases to > 1 x 109/L resume Tyenne 
ANC < 0.5 
Discontinue Tyenne 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in sJIA or pJIA for a laboratory 
abnormality should be based on the medical assessment of the individual 
patient. 
•  Low platelet count 
Laboratory 
Value  
(cells x 103/μL) 
Action 
50 to 100 
Modify the dose of the concomitant MTX if appropriate 
Interrupt Tyenne dosing 
When platelet count is > 100 x 103/μL resume Tyenne 
< 50 
Discontinue Tyenne. 
The decision to discontinue Tyenne in sJIA or pJIA for a laboratory 
abnormality should be based on the medical assessment of the individual 
patient. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reduction of tocilizumab dosing frequency due to laboratory abnormalities has not been studied in 
sJIA or pJIA patients. 
The safety and efficacy of tocilizumab subcutaneous formulation in children with conditions other 
than sJIA or pJIA have not been established. 
Available data with the intravenous formulation suggest that clinical improvement is observed 
within 12 weeks of initiation of treatment with tocilizumab. Continued therapy should be carefully 
reconsidered in a patient exhibiting no improvement within this timeframe. 
Missed dose  
If a sJIA patient misses a subcutaneous weekly injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled 
dose, he/she should be instructed to take the missed dose on the next scheduled day. If a patient 
misses a subcutaneous once every 2 week injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled dose, 
he/she should be instructed to take the missed dose immediately and the next dose on the next 
scheduled day. 
If a pJIA patient misses a subcutaneous injection of Tyenne within 7 days of the scheduled dose, 
he/she should take the missed dose as soon as they remember and take the next dose at the regular 
scheduled time. If a patient misses a subcutaneous injection of Tyenne by more than 7 days of the 
scheduled dose or is unsure when to inject Tyenne, call the doctor or pharmacist. 
Method of administration 
Tyenne is for subcutaneous use. 
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Tyenne if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate. The total content (0.9 mL) of the pre-filled pen should be 
administered as a subcutaneous injection. The recommended injection sites (abdomen, thigh and 
upper arm) should be rotated and injections should never be given into moles, scars, or areas where 
the skin is tender, bruised, red, hard, or not intact. 
The pre-filled pen should not be shaken. 
Comprehensive instructions for the administration of Tyenne in a pre-filled pen are given in the 
package leaflet, see section 6.6. 
4.3 Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active, severe infections (see section 4.4). 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use 
Tocilizumab subcutaneous formulation is not intended for intravenous administration. 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
Serious and sometimes fatal infections have been reported in patients receiving immunosuppressive 
agents including tocilizumab (see section 4.8, Undesirable effects). Tocilizumab treatment must not 
be initiated in patients with active infections (see section 4.3). Administration of tocilizumab 
should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious infection until the infection is controlled (see 
section 4.8). Healthcare professionals should exercise caution when considering the use of 
tocilizumab in patients with a history of recurring or chronic infections or with underlying 
conditions (e.g. diverticulitis, diabetes and interstitial lung disease which may predispose patients 
to infections. 
Vigilance for the timely detection of serious infection is recommended for patients receiving 
immunosuppressive agents such as tocilizumab as signs and symptoms of acute inflammation may 
be lessened, due to suppression of the acute phase reactants. The effects of tocilizumab on C-
reactive protein (CRP), neutrophils and signs and symptoms of infection should be considered 
when evaluating a patient for a potential infection. Patients, and parents/guardians of sJIA or pJIA 
patients, should be instructed to contact their healthcare professional immediately when any 
symptoms suggesting infection appear, in order to assure rapid evaluation and appropriate 
treatment. 
Tuberculosis 
As recommended for other biological treatments, all patients should be screened for latent 
tuberculosis (TB) infection prior to starting tocilizumab therapy. Patients with latent TB should be 
treated with standard anti-mycobacterial therapy before initiating tocilizumab. Prescribers are 
reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin and interferon-gamma TB blood test results, 
especially in patients who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
Patients, and parents/guardians of sJIA or pJIA patients should be advised to seek medical advice if 
signs/symptoms (e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade (fever) suggestive of a 
tuberculosis infection occur during or after therapy with tocilizumab. 
Viral reactivation 
Viral reactivation (e.g. hepatitis B virus) has been reported with biologic therapies for RA. In 
clinical studies with tocilizumab, patients who screened positive for hepatitis were excluded. 
Complications of diverticulitis 
Events of diverticular perforations as complications of diverticulitis have been reported 
uncommonly in patients treated with tocilizumab (see section 4.8). Tocilizumab should be used 
with caution in patients with previous history of intestinal ulceration or diverticulitis. Patients 
presenting with symptoms potentially indicative of complicated diverticulitis, such as abdominal 
pain, haemorrhage and/or unexplained change in bowel habits with fever should be evaluated 
promptly for early identification of diverticulitis which can be associated with gastrointestinal 
perforation. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis have been reported in association with 
tocilizumab (see section 4.8). Such reactions may be more severe, and potentially fatal in patients 
who have experienced hypersensitivity reactions during previous treatment with tocilizumab even 
if they have received pretreatment with steroids and antihistamines. If an anaphylactic reaction or 
other serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs, administration of  tocilizumab should be stopped 
immediately, appropriate therapy initiated and tocilizumab should be permanently discontinued. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active hepatic disease and hepatic impairment 
Treatment with tocilizumab, particularly when administered concomitantly with MTX, may be 
associated with elevations in hepatic transaminases, therefore, caution should be exercised when 
considering treatment of patients with active hepatic disease or hepatic impairment (see sections 
4.2 and 4.8). 
Hepatotoxicity 
Transient or intermittent mild and moderate elevations of hepatic transaminases have been reported 
commonly with tocilizumab treatment (see section 4.8). An increased frequency of these elevations 
was observed when potentially hepatotoxic medicines (e.g. MTX) were used in combination with 
tocilizumab. When clinically indicated, other liver function tests including bilirubin should be 
considered. 
Serious treatment-induced liver injury, including acute liver failure, hepatitis and jaundice, have 
been observed with tocilizumab (see section 4.8). Serious hepatic injury occurred between 2 weeks 
to more than 5 years after initiation of tocilizumab. Cases of liver failure resulting in liver 
transplantation have been reported. Patients should be advised to immediately seek medical help if 
they experience signs and symptoms of hepatic injury. 
Caution should be exercised when considering initiation of tocilizumab treatment in patients with 
elevated ALT or AST > 1.5 x ULN. In patients with baseline ALT or AST > 5 x ULN, treatment is 
not recommended. 
In RA, GCA, pJIA and sJIA patients, ALT/AST should be monitored every 4 to 8 weeks for the 
first 6 months of treatment followed by every 12 weeks thereafter. For recommended 
modifications, including tocilizumab discontinuation, based on transaminases levels see section 
4.2. For ALT or AST elevations > 3–5 x ULN, tocilizumab treatment should be interrupted. 
Haematological abnormalities 
Decreases in neutrophil and platelet counts have occurred following treatment with tocilizumab 
8 mg/kg in combination with MTX (see section 4.8). There may be an increased risk of neutropenia 
in patients who have previously been treated with a TNF antagonist. 
In patients not previously treated with tocilizumab, initiation is not recommended in patients with 
an ANC below 2 x 109/L. Caution should be exercised when considering initiation of tocilizumab 
Tyennetreatment in patients with a low platelet count (i.e. platelet count below 100 x 103/ μL). In 
patients who develop an ANC < 0.5 x 109/L or a platelet count < 50 x 103/μL, continued treatment 
is not recommended. 
Severe neutropenia may be associated with an increased risk of serious infections, although there 
has been no clear association between decreases in neutrophils and the occurrence of serious 
infections in clinical studies with tocilizumab to date. 
In RA and GCA patients, neutrophils and platelets should be monitored 4 to 8 weeks after start of 
therapy and thereafter according to standard clinical practice. For recommended dose modifications 
based on ANC and platelet counts, see section 4.2. 
In sJIA and pJIA patients, neutrophils and platelets should be monitored at the time of the second 
administration and thereafter according to good clinical practice (see section 4.2). 
Lipid parameters 
Elevations in lipid parameters including total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-
density lipoprotein (HDL) and triglycerides were observed in patients treated with tocilizumab (see 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
section 4.8). In the majority of patients, there was no increase in atherogenic indices, and elevations 
in total cholesterol responded to treatment with lipid lowering agents. 
In RA and GCA patients, assessment of lipid parameters should be performed 4 to 8 weeks 
following initiation of tocilizumab therapy. Patients should be managed according to local clinical 
guidelines for management of hyperlipidaemia. 
Neurological disorders 
Physicians should be vigilant for symptoms potentially indicative of new-onset central 
demyelinating disorders. The potential for central demyelination with tocilizumab is currently 
unknown. 
Malignancy 
The risk of malignancy is increased in patients with RA. Immunomodulatory medicinal products 
may increase the risk of malignancy. 
Vaccinations 
Live and live attenuated vaccines should not be given concurrently with tocilizumab as clinical 
safety has not been established. In a randomized open-label study, adult RA patients treated with 
tocilizumab and MTX were able to mount an effective response to both the 23-valent 
pneumococcal polysaccharide and tetanus toxoid vaccines which was comparable to the response 
seen in patients on MTX only. It is recommended that all patients particularly elderly patients, be 
brought up to date with all immunisations in agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior 
to initiating tocilizumab therapy. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of 
tocilizumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding 
immunosuppressive agents. 
Cardiovascular risk 
RA patients have an increased risk for cardiovascular disorders and should have risk factors (e.g. 
hypertension, hyperlipidaemia) managed as part of usual standard of care. 
Combination with TNF antagonists 
There is no experience with the use of tocilizumab with TNF antagonists or other biological 
treatments for RA patients. Tocilizumab is not recommended for use with other biological agents. 
GCA 
Tocilizumab monotherapy should not be used for the treatment of acute relapses as efficacy in this 
setting has not been established. Glucocorticoids should be given according to medical judgement 
and practice guidelines. 
sJIA 
Macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) is a serious life-threatening disorder that may develop in 
sJIA patients. In clinical studies, tocilizumab has not been studied in patients during an episode of 
active MAS. 
Excipients with known effects 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.9 mL dose, i.e. 
essentially 'sodium-free'. 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Concomitant administration of a single dose of 10 mg/kg tocilizumab  with 10-25 mg MTX once 
weekly had no clinically significant effect on MTX exposure. 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses did not detect any effect of MTX, non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or corticosteroids on tocilizumab  clearance in RA patients. In GCA 
patients, no effect of cumulative corticosteroid dose on tocilizumab exposure was observed. 
The expression of hepatic CYP450 enzymes is suppressed by cytokines, such as IL-6, that 
stimulate chronic inflammation. Thus, CYP450 expression may be reversed when potent cytokine 
inhibitory therapy, such as tocilizumab, is introduced. 
In vitro studies with cultured human hepatocytes demonstrated that IL-6 caused a reduction in 
CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 enzyme expression. Tocilizumab normalises 
expression of these enzymes. 
In a study in RA patients, levels of simvastatin (CYP3A4) were decreased by 57% one week 
following a single dose of tocilizumab, to the level similar to, or slightly higher than, those 
observed in healthy subjects. 
When starting or stopping therapy with tocilizumab, patients taking medicinal products which are 
individually adjusted and are metabolised via CYP450 3A4, 1A2 or 2C9 (e.g. methylprednisolone, 
dexamethasone, (with the possibility for oral glucocorticoid withdrawal syndrome), atorvastatin, 
calcium channel blockers, theophylline, warfarin, phenprocoumon, phenytoin, ciclosporin, or 
benzodiazepines) should be monitored as doses may need to be increased to maintain therapeutic 
effect. Given its long elimination half-life (t1/2), the effect of tocilizumab on CYP450 enzyme 
activity may persist for several weeks after stopping therapy. 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential  
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during and up to 3 months after 
treatment. 
Pregnancy  
There are no adequate data from the use of tocilizumab in pregnant women. A study in animals has 
shown an increased risk of spontaneous abortion/embryo-foetal death at a high dose (see section 
5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Tocilizumab should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary.  
Breast-feeding  
It is unknown whether tocilizumab is excreted in human breast milk. The excretion of tocilizumab 
in milk has not been studied in animals. A decision on whether to continue/discontinue breast-
feeding or to continue/discontinue therapy with tocilizumab should be made taking into account the 
benefit of breast-feeding to the child and the benefit of tocilizumab therapy to the woman. 
Fertility  
Available non-clinical data do not suggest an effect on fertility under tocilizumab treatment. 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tocilizumab has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines (see section 4.8, 
dizziness). 
4.8 
Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile  
The safety profile comes from 4 510 patients exposed to tocilizumab in clinical studies; the 
majority of these patients were participating in RA studies (n=4 009), while the remaining 
experience comes from GCA (n=149), pJIA (n=240) and sJIA (n=112) studies. The safety profile 
of tocilizumab across these indications remains similar and undifferentiated. 
The most commonly reported Adverse Drug Reactions (ADRs) were upper respiratory tract 
infections, nasopharyngitis, headache, hypertension and increased ALT. 
The most serious ADRs were serious infections, complications of diverticulitis, and 
hypersensitivity reactions. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions  
ADRs from clinical studies and/or post marketing experience with tocilizumab based on spontaneous 
case reports, literature cases and cases from non-interventional study programs are listed in Table 1 
and are presented by MedDRA system organ class. The corresponding frequency category is based 
on the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) or very rare (< 1/10 000). Within each 
frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1: List of ADRs occurring in patients treated with tocilizumab 
MedDRA  
System Organ  
Class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Frequency categories with preferred terms 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Upper respiratory 
 tract infections 
Diverticulitis 
Cellulitis, Pneumonia, 
Oral herpes simplex, 
Herpes zoster 
Leukopenia, 
Neutropenia, 
Hypofibrinogenaemia 
Anaphylaxis  
(fatal)1, 2 ,3 
Endocrine disorders   
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Hypercholesterolemia
* 
Hypothyroidism 
Hypertriglyceridemia 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Vascular  
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
Headache,  
Dizziness 
Conjunctivitis 
Hypertension 
Cough, Dyspnoea 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
MedDRA  
System Organ  
Class 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Frequency categories with preferred terms 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Abdominal pain, 
Mouth ulceration, 
Gastritis 
Stomatitis, 
Gastric ulcer 
Treatment-
induced liver 
injury, 
Hepatitis, 
Jaundice, 
Very rare: 
Hepatic failure 
Stevens-
Johnson-
Syndrome3  
Rash, Pruritus, 
Urticaria 
Injection site reaction  Peripheral oedema, 
Nephrolithiasis 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Hepatic 
transaminases 
increased, Weight 
increased, Total 
bilirubin increased* 
* Includes elevations collected as part of routine laboratory monitoring (see text below) 
1 See section 4.3 
2 See section 4.4 
3 This adverse reaction was identified through post marketing surveillance but not observed in controlled clinical studies. 
The frequency category was estimated as the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval calculated on the basis of the 
total number of patients exposed to TCZ in clinical studies. 
RA (Subcutaneous use) 
The safety of subcutaneous tocilizumab in RA includes a double-blind, controlled, multicenter 
study, SC-I. SC-I was a non-inferiority study that compared the efficacy and safety of tocilizumab 
162 mg administered every week versus 8 mg/kg intravenous in 1 262 patients with RA. All 
patients received background non-biologic DMARD(s). The safety and immunogenicity observed 
for tocilizumab administered subcutaneous was consistent with the known safety profile of 
intravenous tocilizumab and no new or unexpected adverse drug reactions were observed (see 
Table 1). A higher frequency of injection site reactions was observed in the subcutaneous arms 
compared with placebo subcutaneous injections in the intravenous arms. 
Injection site reactions 
During the 6-month controlled period, in SC-I, the frequency of injection site reactions was 10.1% 
(64/631) and 2.4% (15/631) for the subcutaneous tocilizumab and the subcutaneous placebo 
(intravenous group) weekly injections, respectively. These injection site reactions (including 
erythema, pruritus, pain and haematoma) were mild to moderate in severity. The majority was 
resolved without any treatment and none necessitated treatment discontinuation. 
84 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Haematological abnormalities 
Neutrophils 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 6 month controlled clinical study SC-I, a 
decrease in neutrophil count below 1 × 109/L occurred in 2.9% of patients on the subcutaneous 
weekly dose. 
There was no clear relationship between decreases in neutrophils below 1 x 109/L and the 
occurrence of serious infections. 
Platelets 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 6 month clinical study SC-I, none of the 
patients on the subcutaneous weekly dose had a decrease in platelet count to ≤ 50 × 103 / μL. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 6-month controlled clinical study SC-I, 
elevation in ALT or AST ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 6.5% and 1.4% of patients, respectively on the 
subcutaneous weekly dose. 
Lipid parameters 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 6 month controlled clinical study SC-I, 
19% of patients experienced sustained elevations in total cholesterol > 6.2 mmol/L (240 mg/dL), 
with 9% experiencing a sustained increase in LDL to ≥ 4.1 mmol/L (160 mg/dL) on the 
subcutaneous weekly dose. 
sJIA (Subcutaneous Use) 
The safety profile of subcutaneous tocilizumab was evaluated in 51 paediatric patients (1 to 
17 years of age) with sJIA. In general, the adverse drug reactions in patients with sJIA were similar 
in type to those seen in RA patients (see Undesirable Effects section above). 
Infections 
The rate of infection in sJIA patients treated with subcutaneous tocilizumab was comparable to 
sJIA patients treated with intravenous tocilizumab. 
Injection Site Reactions (ISRs) 
In the subcutaneous Study (WA28118), a total of 41.2% (21/51) sJIA patients experienced ISRs to 
tocilizumab subcutaneous. The most common ISRs were erythema, pruritus, pain, and swelling at 
the injection site. The majority of ISRs reported were Grade 1 events and all ISRs reported were 
non-serious and none required patient withdrawal from treatment or dose interruption. 
Laboratory Abnormalities 
In the 52-week open-label subcutaneous Study (WA28118), neutrophil count decrease to below 1 × 
109/L occurred in 23.5% of patients treated with tocilizumab subcutaneous. Decreases in platelet 
counts to below 100 × 103/μL occurred in 2% of the patients treated with tocilizumab 
subcutaneous. An elevation in ALT or AST to ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 9.8% and 4.0% patients 
treated with tocilizumab subcutaneous, respectively. 
Lipid parameters 
In the 52-week open-label subcutaneous Study (WA28118), 23.4% and 35.4% of patients 
experienced a post-baseline elevation of their LDL-cholesterol value to ≥ 130 mg/dL and total 
cholesterol value to ≥ 200 mg/dL at any time during study treatment, respectively. 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pJIA (Subcutaneous Use) 
The safety profile of subcutaneous tocilizumab was also evaluated in 52 paediatric patients with 
pJIA. The total patient exposure to tocilizumab in the pJIA all exposure population was 
184.4 patient years for intravenous and 50.4 patient years for subcutaneous tocilizumab. In general, 
the safety profile observed in patients with pJIA was consistent with the known safety profile of 
tocilizumab with the exception of ISRs (see Table 1). A higher frequency of pJIA patients 
experienced ISRs following subcutaneous tocilizumab injections compared to adult RA. 
Infections 
In the subcutaneous tocilizumab study, the rate of infection in pJIA patients treated with 
subcutaneous tocilizumab was comparable with pJIA patients treated with intravenous tocilizumab. 
Injection Site Reactions 
A total of 28.8% (15/52) pJIA patients experienced ISRs to tocilizumab subcutaneous. These ISRs 
occurred in a 44% of patients ≥ 30 kg compared to 14.8% of patients below 30 kg. The most 
common ISRs were injection site erythema, swelling, hematoma, pain and pruritis. All ISRs 
reported were non-serious Grade 1 events, and none of the ISRs required patient withdrawal from 
treatment or dose interruption. 
Laboratory Abnormalities 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab all exposure population, a decrease in 
neutrophil count below 1 × 109/L occurred in 15.4% of patients treated with subcutaneous 
tocilizumab. An elevation in ALT or AST ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 9.6% and 3.8% patients treated 
with tocilizumab subcutaneous, respectively. No patients treated with subcutaneous tocilizumab 
experienced a decrease in platelet count to ≤ 50 × 103 / μL. 
Lipid parameters 
In the subcutaneous Study, 14.3% and 12.8% of patients experienced a post-baseline elevation of 
their LDL-cholesterol value to ≥ 130 mg/dL and total cholesterol value to ≥ 200 mg/dL at any time 
during study treatment, respectively. 
GCA (Subcutaneous Use) 
The safety of subcutaneous tocilizumab has been studied in one Phase III study (WA28119) with 
251 GCA patients. The total patient years duration in the tocilizumab all exposure population was 
138.5 patient years during the 12 month double blind, placebo controlled phase of the study. The 
overall safety profile observed in the tocilizumab treatment groups was consistent with the known 
safety profile of tocilizumab (see Table 1). 
Infections 
The rate of infection/serious infection events was balanced between the tocilizumab weekly group 
(200.2/9.7 events per 100 patient years) vs. placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone taper 
(156.0/4.2 events per 100 patient years) and placebo plus 52 weeks taper (210.2/12.5 events per 
100 patient years) groups. 
Injection site reactions 
In the tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly group, a total of 6% (6/100) patients reported an adverse 
reaction occurring at the site of a subcutaneous injection. No injection site reaction was reported as 
a serious adverse event or required treatment discontinuation. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haematological abnormalities 
Neutrophils 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 12 month controlled clinical study, a 
decrease in neutrophil count below 1 × 109/L occurred in 4% of patients in the tocilizumab 
subcutaneous weekly group. This was not observed in either of the placebo plus prednisone taper 
groups. 
Platelets 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 12 month controlled clinical study, one 
patient (1%, 1/100) in the tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly group had a single transient occurrence 
of decrease in platelet count to <100 × 103/μL without associated bleeding events. A decrease in 
platelet count below 100 × 103/μL was not observed in either of the placebo plus prednisone taper 
groups. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 12 month controlled clinical study, 
elevation in ALT ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 3% of patients in the tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly 
group compared to 2% in the placebo plus 52 week prednisone taper group and none in the placebo 
plus 26 week prednisone taper group. An elevation in AST > 3 ULN occurred in 1% of patients in 
the tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly group, compared to no patients in either of the placebo plus 
prednisone taper groups. 
Lipid parameters 
During routine laboratory monitoring in the tocilizumab 12 month controlled clinical study, 34% of 
patients experienced sustained elevations in total cholesterol > 6.2 mmol/L (240 mg/dL), with 15% 
experiencing a sustained increase in LDL to ≥ 4.1 mmol/L (160 mg/dL) in the tocilizumab 
subcutaneous weekly group. 
RA (Intravenous use) 
The safety of tocilizumab has been studied in 4 placebo-controlled studies (studies II, III, IV and 
V), 1 mTX-controlled study (study I) and their extension periods (see section 5.1). 
The double-blind controlled period was 6 months in four studies (studies I, III, IV and V) and was 
up to 2 years in one study (study II). In the double-blind controlled studies, 774 patients received 
tocilizumab 4 mg/kg in combination with MTX, 1 870 patients received tocilizumab 8 mg/kg in 
combination with MTX or other DMARDs and 288 patients received tocilizumab 8 mg/kg 
monotherapy. 
The long-term exposure population includes all patients who received at least one dose of 
tocilizumab either in the double-blind control period or open label extension phase in the studies. 
Of the 4 009 patients in this population, 3 577 received treatment for at least 6 months, 3 296 for at 
least one year, 2806 received treatment for at least 2 years and 1 222 for 3 years. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infections 
In the 6-month controlled studies the rate of all infections reported with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus 
DMARD treatment was 127 events per 100 patient years compared to 112 events per 100 patient 
years in the placebo plus DMARD group. In the long-term exposure population, the overall rate of 
infections with tocilizumab was 108 events per 100 patient years exposure. 
In 6-month controlled clinical studies, the rate of serious infections with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus 
DMARDs was 5.3 events per 100 patient years exposure compared to 3.9 events per 100 patient 
years exposure in the placebo plus DMARD group. In the monotherapy study the rate of serious 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections was 3.6 events per 100 patient years of exposure in the tocilizumab group and 1.5 events 
per 100 patient years of exposure in the MTX group. 
In the long-term exposure population, the overall rate of serious infections (bacterial, viral and 
fungal) was 4.7 events per 100 patient years. Reported serious infections, some with fatal outcome, 
included active tuberculosis, which may present with intrapulmonary or extrapulmonary disease, 
invasive pulmonary infections, including candidiasis, aspergillosis, coccidioidomycosis and 
pneumocystis jirovecii, pneumonia, cellulitis, herpes zoster, gastroenteritis, diverticulitis, sepsis 
and bacterial arthritis. Cases of opportunistic infections have been reported. 
Interstitial lung disease 
Impaired lung function may increase the risk for developing infections. There have been post-
marketing reports of interstitial lung disease (including pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis), some 
of which had fatal outcomes. 
Gastrointestinal perforation 
During the 6-month controlled clinical studies, the overall rate of gastrointestinal perforation was 
0.26 events per 100 patient years with tocilizumab therapy. In the long-term exposure population 
the overall rate of gastrointestinal perforation was 0.28 events per 100 patient years. Reports of 
gastrointestinal perforation on tocilizumab were primarily reported as complications of 
diverticulitis including generalised purulent peritonitis, lower gastrointestinal perforation, fistulae 
and abscess. 
Infusion Related reactions 
In the 6-month controlled studies adverse events associated with infusion (selected events occurring 
during or within 24 hours of infusion) were reported by 6.9% of patients in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg 
plus DMARD group and 5.1% of patients in the placebo plus DMARD group. Events reported 
during the infusion were primarily episodes of hypertension; events reported within 24 hours of 
finishing an infusion were headache and skin reactions (rash, urticaria). These events were not 
treatment limiting. 
The rate of anaphylactic reactions (occurring in a total of 8/4 009 patients, 0.2%) was several fold 
higher with the 4 mg/kg dose, compared to the 8 mg/kg dose. Clinically significant hypersensitivity 
reactions associated with tocilizumab and requiring treatment discontinuation were reported in a 
total of 56 out of 4 009 patients (1.4%) treated with tocilizumab during the controlled and open 
label clinical studies. These reactions were generally observed during the second to fifth infusions 
of tocilizumab (see section 4.4). Fatal anaphylaxis has been reported after marketing authorisation 
during treatment with intravenous tocilizumab (see section 4.4). 
Haematological abnormalities 
Neutrophils 
In the 6-month controlled studies decreases in neutrophil counts below 1 x 109/ L occurred in 3.4% 
of patients on tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARDs compared to < 0.1% of patients on placebo plus 
DMARDs. Approximately half of the patients who developed an ANC < 1 x 109/ L did so within 
8 weeks after starting therapy. Decreases below 0.5 x 109/ L were reported in 0.3% patients 
receiving tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARDs. Infections with neutropenia have been reported. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence 
of decreases in neutrophil counts remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
clinical studies. 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Platelets 
In the 6-month controlled studies decreases in platelet counts below 100 x 103/μL occurred in 1.7% 
of patients on tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARDs compared to < 1% on placebo plus DMARDs. 
These decreases occurred without associated bleeding events. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence 
of decreases in platelet counts remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
clinical studies. 
Very rare reports of pancytopenia have occurred in the post marketing setting. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
During the 6-month controlled studies transient elevations in ALT/AST > 3 x ULN were observed 
in 2.1% of patients on tocilizumab 8 mg/kg compared to 4.9% of patients on MTX and in 6.5% of 
patients who received 8 mg/kg tocilizumab plus DMARDs compared to 1.5% of patients on 
placebo plus DMARDs. 
The addition of potentially hepatotoxic medicines (e.g. MTX) to tocilizumab monotherapy resulted 
in increased frequency of these elevations. Elevations of ALT/AST > 5 x ULN were observed in 
0.7% of tocilizumab monotherapy patients and 1.4% of tocilizumab plus DMARD patients, the 
majority of whom were discontinued permanently from tocilizumab treatment. During the double-
blind controlled period, the incidence of indirect bilirubin greater than the upper limit of normal, 
collected as a routine laboratory parameter, is 6.2% in patients treated with 8 mg/kg tocilizumab + 
DMARD. A total of 5.8% of patients experienced an elevation of indirect bilirubin of > 1 to 
2 x ULN and 0.4% had an elevation of > 2 x ULN. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence 
of elevation in ALT/AST remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
clinical studies. 
Lipid parameters 
During the 6-month controlled studies, increases of lipid parameters such as total cholesterol, 
triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, and/or HDL cholesterol have been reported commonly. With 
routine laboratory monitoring it was seen that approximately 24% of patients receiving tocilizumab 
in clinical studies experienced sustained elevations in total cholesterol ≥ 6.2 mmol/ l, with 15% 
experiencing a sustained increase in LDL to ≥ 4.1 mmol/ L. Elevations in lipid parameters 
responded to treatment with lipid-lowering agents. 
During the double-blind controlled period and with long-term exposure, the pattern and incidence of 
elevations in lipid parameters remained consistent with what was seen in the 6-month controlled 
studies. 
Malignancies 
The clinical data are insufficient to assess the potential incidence of malignancy following exposure 
to tocilizumab. Long-term safety evaluations are ongoing. 
Skin Reactions 
Rare reports of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome have occurred in the post marketing setting. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-tocilizumab antibodies may develop during tocilizumab treatment. Correlation of antibody 
development to clinical response or adverse events may be observed. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorization of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
4.9 Overdose 
There are limited data available on overdose with tocilizumab. One case of accidental overdose 
was reported in which a patient with multiple myeloma received a single dose of 40 mg/kg 
administered intravenously. No adverse reactions were observed. 
No serious adverse reactions were observed in healthy volunteers who received a single dose of 
tocilizumab up to 28 mg/kg, although dose limiting neutropenia was observed. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosupressants, Interleukin inhibitors; ATC code: L04AC07. 
Tyenne is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the European 
Medicines Agency website; http.//www.ema.europa.eu 
Mechanism of action  
Tocilizumab binds specifically to both soluble and membrane-bound IL-6 receptors (sIL-6R and 
mIL-6R). Tocilizumab has been shown to inhibit sIL-6R and mIL-6R-mediated signaling. IL-6 is a 
pleiotropic pro-inflammatory cytokine produced by a variety of cell types including T- and B-cells, 
monocytes and fibroblasts. IL-6 is involved in diverse physiological processes such as T-cell 
activation, induction of immunoglobulin secretion, induction of hepatic acute phase protein 
synthesis and stimulation of haemopoiesis. IL-6 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diseases 
including inflammatory diseases, osteoporosis and neoplasia. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
In RA clinical studies with tocilizumab, rapid decreases in CRP, erythrocyte sedimentation rate 
(ESR), serum amyloid A (SAA) and fibrinogen were observed. Consistent with the effect on acute 
phase reactants, treatment with tocilizumab was associated with reduction in platelet count within 
the normal range. Increases in haemoglobin levels were observed, through tocilizumab decreasing 
the IL-6 driven effects on hepcidin production to increase iron availability. In tocilizumab-treated 
patients, decreases in the levels of CRP to within normal ranges were seen as early as week 2, with 
decreases maintained while on treatment. 
In GCA clinical study WA28119, similar rapid decreases in CRP and ESR were observed along 
with slight increases in mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration. In healthy subjects 
administered tocilizumab in doses from 2 to 28 mg/kg intravenously and 81 to 162 mg 
subcutaneously, absolute neutrophil counts decreased to their lowest 2 to 5 days following 
administration. Thereafter, neutrophils recovered towards baseline in a dose dependent manner.  
RA and GCA patients demonstrate a comparable (to healthy subjects) decrease of absolute 
neutrophil counts following tocilizumab administration (see section 4.8). 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RA (Subcutaneous use) 
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of subcutaneous administered tocilizumab in alleviating the signs and symptoms of 
RA and radiographic response, was assessed in two randomised, double-blind, controlled, multi-
center studies. For study I (SC-I), patients were required to be >18 years of age with moderate to 
severe active RA diagnosed according to ACR criteria who had at least 4 tender and 4 swollen 
joints at baseline. All patients received background non-biologic DMARD(s). For study II (SC-II), 
patients were required to be > 18 years of age with moderate to severe active RA diagnosed 
according to ACR criteria who had at least 8 tender and 6 swollen joints at baseline. 
Switching from 8 mg/kg intravenous once every 4 weeks to 162 mg subcutaneous once every 
week, will alter exposure in the patient. The extent varies with the patient’s body weight (increased 
in light body weight patients and decreased in heavy body weight patients) but clinical outcome is 
consistent with that observed in intravenous treated patients. 
Clinical response  
Study SC-I evaluated patients with moderate to severe active RA who had an inadequate clinical 
response to their existing rheumatologic therapy, including one or more DMARD(s) where 
approximately 20% had a history of inadequate response to at least one TNF inhibitor. In SC-I, 
1 262 patients were randomized 1:1 to receive tocilizumab subcutaneous 162 mg every week or 
tocilizumab intravenous 8 mg/kg every four weeks in combination with non-biologic DMARD(s). 
The primary endpoint in the study was the difference in the proportion of patients who achieved an 
ACR20 response at week 24. The results from study SC-I is shown in Table 2. 
Table 2: ACR responses in study SC-I (% patients) at Week 24 
SC-
TCZ SC 162 mg  
every week  
+ DMARD  
N=558 
TCZ IV 8 mg/kg  
+ DMARD 
N=537 
69.4% 
47.0% 
24.0% 
-4.0 (-9.2, 1.2) 
-1.8 (-7.5, 4.0) 
-3.8 (-9.0, 1.3) 
73.4% 
48.6% 
27.9% 
ACR20 Week 24 
Weighted difference (95% 
CI) 
ACR50 Week 24 
Weighted difference (95% 
CI) 
ACR70 Week 24 
Weighted difference (95% 
CI) 
TCZ = tocilizumab 
a = Per Protocol Population 
Patients in study SC-I had a mean Disease Activity Score (DAS28) at baseline of 6.6 and 6.7 on the 
subcutaneous and intravenous arms, respectively. At week 24, a significant reduction in DAS28 
from baseline (mean improvement) of 3.5 was observed on both treatment arms, and a comparable 
proportion of patients had achieved DAS28 clinical remission (DAS28 < 2.6) on the subcutaneous 
(38.4%) and intravenous (36.9%) arms. 
91 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
Radiographic response 
The radiographic response of subcutaneous administered tocilizumab was assessed in a double-
blind, controlled, multicenter study in patients with active RA (SC-II). Study SC-II evaluated 
patients with moderate to severe active RA who had an inadequate clinical response to their 
existing rheumatologic therapy, including one or more DMARD(s) where approximately 20% had 
a history of inadequate response to at least one TNF inhibitor. Patients were required to be 
>18 years of age with active RA diagnosed according to ACR criteria who had at least 8 tender and 
6 swollen joints at baseline. In SC-II, 656 patients were randomized 2:1 to tocilizumab 
subcutaneous 162 mg every other week or placebo, in combination with non-biologic DMARD(s). 
In study SC-II, inhibition of structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as 
a change from baseline in the van der Heijde modified mean total Sharp score (mTSS). At week 24, 
inhibition of structural damage was shown, with significantly less radiographic progression in 
patients receiving tocilizumab subcutaneous compared to placebo (mean mTSS of 0.62 vs. 1.23, 
p=0.0149 (van Elteren). These results are consistent with those observed in patients treated with 
intravenous tocilizumab. 
In study SC-II, at week 24 there was ACR20 of 60.9%, ACR50 of 39.8% and ACR70 of 19.7% for 
patients treated with tocilizumab subcutaneous every other week versus placebo ACR20 of 31.5%, 
ACR50 of 12.3% and ACR70 of 5.0%. Patients had mean DAS28 at baseline of 6.7 on 
subcutaneous and 6.6 on placebo arms. At week 24, a significant reduction in DAS28 from 
baseline of 3.1 was observed on subcutaneous and 1.7 on placebo arm, and for DAS28 < 2.6, 
32.0% was observed on subcutaneous and 4.0% on placebo arm. 
Health-related and quality of life outcomes 
In study SC-I, the mean decrease in HAQ-DI from baseline to week 24 was 0.6 on both the 
subcutaneous and intravenous arms. The proportion of patients achieving a clinically relevant 
improvement in HAQ-DI at week 24 (change from baseline of ≥ 0.3 units) was also comparable on 
the subcutaneous (65.2%) versus intravenous (67.4%) arms, with a weighted difference in 
proportions of - 2.3% (95% CI - 8.1, 3.4). For SF-36, the mean change from baseline at week 24 in 
the mental component score was 6.22 for the subcutaneous arm and 6.54 for the intravenous arm, 
and for the physical component score was also similar with 9.49 for the subcutaneous arm and 9.65 
for the intravenous arm. 
In study SC-II, mean decrease in HAQ-DI from baseline to week 24 was significantly greater for 
patients treated with tocilizumab subcutaneous every other week (0.4) versus placebo (0.3). 
Proportion of patients achieving a clinically relevant improvement in HAQ-DI at week 24 (change 
from baseline of ≥ 0.3 units) was higher for tocilizumab subcutaneous every other week (58%) 
versus placebo (46.8%). SF-36 (mean change in mental and physical component scores) was 
significantly greater with tocilizumab subcutaneous group (6.5 and 5.3) versus placebo (3.8 and 
2.9). 
sJIA (Subcutaneous use) 
Clinical Efficacy 
A 52-week, open-label, multi-centre, PK/PD and safety study (WA28118) was conducted in 
paediatric patients with sJIA, aged 1 to 17 years, to determine the appropriate subcutaneous dose of 
tocilizumab that achieved comparable PK/PD and safety profiles to the intravenous regimen. 
Eligible patients received tocilizumab dosed according to body weight (BW), with patients 
weighing ≥ 30 kg (n=26) dosed with 162 mg of tocilizumab every week (QW) and patients 
weighing below 30 kg (n=25) dosed with 162 mg of tocilizumab every 10 days (Q10D; n=8) or 
every 2 weeks (Q2W; n=17) for 52 weeks. Of these 51 patients, 26 (51%) were naive to 
tocilizumab and 25 (49%) had been receiving tocilizumab intravenous and switched to tocilizumab 
subcutaneous at baseline. 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exploratory efficacy results showed that tocilizumab subcutaneous improved all exploratory 
efficacy parameters including Juvenile Arthritis Disease Activity Score (JADAS)-71, for 
tocilizumab naïve patients and maintained all exploratory efficacy parameters for patients who 
switched from tocilizumab intravenous to tocilizumab subcutaneous treatment over the entire 
course of the study for patients in both body weight groups (below 30 kg and ≥ 30 kg). 
pJIA (Subcutaneous use) 
Clinical Efficacy 
A 52-week, open-label, multicenter, PK-PD and safety study was conducted in paediatric patients 
with pJIA, aged 1 to 17 years old, to determine the appropriate subcutaneous dose of 
tocilizumab that achieved comparable PK/PD and safety profiles to the intravenous regimen. 
Eligible patients received tocilizumab dosed according to body weight (BW), with patients 
weighing ≥ 30 kg (n = 25) dosed with 162 mg of tocilizumab every 2 weeks (Q2W) and patients 
weighing below 30 kg (n = 27) dosed with 162 mg of tocilizumab every 3 weeks (Q3W) for 
52 weeks. Of these 52 patients, 37 (71%) were naive to tocilizumab and 15 (29%) had been 
receiving tocilizumab intravenous and switched to tocilizumab subcutaneous at baseline. 
The tocilizumab subcutaneous regimens of 162 mg Q3W for patients weighing below 30 kg and of 
162 mg Q2W for patients weighing ≥ 30 kg respectively provide PK exposure and PD responses to 
support efficacy and safety outcomes similar to those achieved with the approved tocilizumab 
intravenous regimens for pJIA. 
Exploratory efficacy results showed that tocilizumab subcutaneous improved median Juvenile 
Arthritis Disease Activity Score (JADAS)-71 for tocilizumab naïve patients and maintained the 
median JADAS-71 for patients who switched from intravenous to subcutaneous tocilizumab 
treatment over the entire course of the study for patients in both body weight groups (below 30 kg 
and  ≥ 30 kg). 
GCA (Subcutaneous use) 
Clinical efficacy 
Study WA28119 was a randomized, multi-center, double-blind placebo-controlled Phase III 
superiority study conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of tocilizumab in patients with GCA. 
Two hundred and fifty one (251) patients with new-onset or relapsing GCA were enrolled and 
assigned to one of four treatment arms. The study consisted of a 52-week blinded period (Part 1), 
followed by a 104-week open-label extension (Part 2). The purpose of Part 2 was to describe the 
long-term safety and maintenance of efficacy after 52 weeks of tocilizumab therapy, to explore the 
rate of relapse and the requirement for tocilizumab therapy beyond 52 weeks, and to gain insight 
into the potential long-term steroid-sparing effect of tocilizumab. 
Two subcutaneous doses of tocilizumab (162 mg every week and 162 mg every other week) were 
compared to two different placebo control groups randomised 2:1:1:1. 
All patients received background glucocorticoid (prednisone) therapy. Each of the tocilizumab-
treated groups and one of the placebo-treated groups followed a pre-specified prednisone-taper 
regimen over 26 weeks, while the second placebo-treated group followed a pre-specified 
prednisone-taper regimen over 52 weeks, designed to be more in keeping with standard practice.  
The duration of glucocorticoid therapy during screening and before tocilizumab (or placebo) was 
initiated, was similar in all 4 treatment groups (see Table 3). 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Duration of corticosteroid therapy during screening in study WA28119 
Placebo  
+ 26 weeks 
prednisone 
taper 
N=50 
Placebo  
+ 52 weeks 
prednisone 
taper 
N=51 
Tocilizumab 
162mg SC weekly 
+ 26 weeks 
prednisone taper 
N=100 
Tocilizumab 
162 mg SC every other 
week + 26 weeks 
prednisone taper 
N=49 
Duration (days)    
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min – Max 
35.7 (11.5) 
42.0 
6 - 63 
36.3 (12.5) 
41.0 
12 – 82 
35.6 (13.2) 
41.0 
1 - 87 
37.4 (14.4) 
42.0 
9 - 87 
The primary efficacy endpoint assessed by the proportion of patients achieving steroid free 
sustained remission at week 52 on tocilizumab plus 26 weeks prednisone taper compared with 
placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone taper, was met (Table 4). 
The key secondary efficacy endpoint also based on the proportion of patients achieving sustained 
remission at week 52, comparing tocilizumab plus 26 weeks prednisone taper with placebo plus 
52 weeks prednisone taper, was also met (Table 4). 
A statistically significant superior treatment effect was seen in favour of tocilizumab over placebo 
in achieving steroid-free sustained remission at week 52 on tocilizumab plus 26 weeks prednisone 
taper compared with placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone taper and with placebo plus 52 weeks 
prednisone taper. 
The percentage of patients achieving sustained remission at week 52, are shown in the Table 4. 
Secondary Endpoints 
The assessment of the time to first GCA flare showed a significantly lower risk of flare for the 
tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly group compared to placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone and 
placebo plus 52 weeks prednisone taper groups and for the tocilizumab subcutaneous every other 
weekly group compared to placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone (when compared at a 0.01 
significance level). Tocilizumab subcutaneous weekly dose also showed a clinically meaningful 
decrease in the risk for flare compared to placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone in patients who entered 
the study with relapsing GCA as well as those with new-onset disease (Table 4). 
Cumulative glucocorticoid dose 
The cumulative prednisone dose at week 52 was significantly lower in the two tocilizumab dose 
groups compared to the two placebo groups (Table 4). In a separate analysis of the patients who 
received escape prednisone to treat GCA flare during the first 52 weeks, the cumulative prednisone 
dose varied greatly. The median doses for escape patients in the tocilizumab weekly and every 
other weekly groups were 3 129.75 mg and 3 847 mg, respectively. Both considerably lower than 
in the placebo plus 26 weeks and the placebo plus 52 weeks prednisone taper groups, 4 023.5 mg 
and 5 389.5 mg respectively.  
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Efficacy results from study WA28119 
Placebo + 26 
weeks 
prednisone 
taper 
N=50 
Placebo + 
52 weeks 
prednisone 
taper 
N=51 
Tocilizumab  
162 mg SC 
weekly + 
26 weeks 
prednisone  
taper 
N=100 
Tocilizumab  
162 mg SC 
every other 
week + 
26 weeks 
prednisone taper 
N=49 
N/A 
N/A 
7 (14%) 
7 (14%) 
N/A 
Primary Endpoint 
****Sustained remission (Tocilizumab groups vs Placebo+
Responders at Week 52, n (%) 
Unadjusted difference in proportions 
 (99.5% CI) 
Key Secondary Endpoint 
Sustained remission (Tocilizumab groups vs Placebo+52)  
Responders at Week 52, n (%) 
Unadjusted difference in proportions 
(99.5% CI) 
Other Secondary Endpoints 
Time  to  first  GCA  flare1  (Tocilizumab 
groups vs Placebo+26) 
                   HR (99% CI)  
Time to first GCA flare1 (Tocilizumab 
groups vs Placebo+52) 
                  HR (99% CI)   
Time to first GCA flare1 (Relapsing 
patients; Tocilizumab groups vs 
Placebo +26) HR (99% CI) 
Time to first GCA flare1 (Relapsing 
patients; Tocilizumab groups vs 
Placebo + 52) HR (99% CI) 
Time to first GCA flare1 (New-onset 
patients; Tocilizumab groups vs 
Placebo +26) HR (99% CI) 
Time to first GCA flare1 (New-onset 
patients; Tocilizumab groups vs 
Placebo + 52) HR (99% CI) 
Cumulative glucocorticoid dose (mg) 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
 +26 
9 (17.6%)  56 (56%) 
N/A 
42%* 
(18.00, 66.00) 
9 (17.6%)  56 (56%) 
38.35%* 
N/A 
(17.89, 58.81) 
26 (53.1%) 
39.06%* 
(12.46, 65.66) 
26 (53.1%) 
35.41%** 
(10.41 ,60.41) 
0.23* 
(0.11, 0.46) 
0.28** 
(0.12, 0.66) 
0.39** 
(0.18, 0.82)  
0.48 
(0.20, 1.16)  
0.23*** 
(0.09,0.61) 
0.42 
(0.14, 1.28) 
0.36 
(0.13, 1.00) 
0.67 
(0.21,2.10) 
0.25*** 
(0.09, 0.70) 
0.20*** 
(0.05, 0.76) 
0.44 
(0.14, 1.32) 
0.35 
(0.09, 1.42) 
median at Week 52 (Tocilizumab 
groups vs Placebo+262) 
3296.00 
N/A 
1862.00* 
1862.00* 
median at Week 52 
(Tocilizumab groups vs 
Placebo +522) 
N/A 
3817.50 
1862.00* 
1862.00* 
0.41 
(0.78) 
1.30 
(1.84) 
1.74 
(2.18) 
Exploratory Endpoints 
Annualized relapse rate, Week 52§ 
Mean (SD) 
* p<0.0001 
** p<0.005 (threshold for significance for primary and key secondary tests of superiority) 
***Descriptive p value <0.005  
****Flare: recurrence of GCA signs or symptoms and/or ESR ≥ 30 mm/h – Increase in the prednisone dose required 
Remission: absence of flare and normalization of the CRP 
Sustained remission: remission from week 12 to week 52 –Patients must adhere to the protocol-defined prednisone taper 
1 analysis of the time (in days) between clinical remission and first disease flare 
2 p-values are determined using a Van Elteren analysis for non-parametric data 
§ statistical analyses has not been performed 
N/A= Not applicable 
HR = Hazard Ratio 
CI = Confidence Interval 
0.67 
(1.10) 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quality of Life Outcomes 
In study WA28119, the SF-36 results were separated into the physical and mental component 
summary scores (PCS and MCS, respectively). The PCS mean change from baseline to week 52 
was higher (showing more improvement) in the tocilizumab weekly and every other weekly dose 
groups [4.10, 2.76, respectively] than in the two placebo groups [placebo plus 26 weeks; -0.28, 
placebo plus 52 weeks; -1.49], although only the comparison between tocilizumab weekly plus 
26 weeks prednisone taper group and placebo plus 52 weeks prednisone taper group (5.59, 99% CI: 
8.6, 10.32) showed a statistically significant difference (p=0.0024). For MCS, the mean change 
from baseline to week 52 for both tocilizumab weekly and every other weekly dose groups [7.28, 
6.12, respectively] were higher than the placebo plus 52 weeks prednisone taper group [2.84] 
(although the differences were not statistically significant [weekly p=0.0252 for weekly, p=0.1468 
for every other weekly]) and similar to the placebo plus 26 weeks prednisone taper group [6.67]. 
The Patient’s Global Assessment of disease activity was assessed on a 0-100 mm Visual Analogue 
Scale (VAS). The mean change in Patient’s global VAS from baseline at week 52 was lower 
(showing greater improvement) in the tocilizumab weekly and every other weekly dose groups [-
19.0, -25.3, respectively] than in both placebo groups [placebo plus 26 weeks -3.4, placebo plus 
52 weeks -7.2], although only the tocilizumab every other weekly plus 26 weeks prednisone taper 
group showed a statistically significant difference compared to placebo [placebo plus 26 weeks 
taper p=0.0059, and placebo plus 52 weeks taper p=0.0081]. 
FACIT-Fatigue change from baseline to week 52 scores were calculated for all groups. The mean 
[SD] change scores were as follows: tocilizumab weekly plus 26 weeks 5.61 [10.115], tocilizumab 
every other weekly plus 26 weeks 1.81 [8.836], placebo plus 26 weeks 0.26 [10.702], and placebo 
plus 52 weeks -1.63 [6.753]. 
Change in EQ5D scores from baseline to week 52 were tocilizumab weekly plus 26 weeks 0.10 
[0.198], tocilizumab every other weekly plus 26 weeks 0.05 [0.215], placebo plus 26 weeks 0.07 
[0.293], and placebo plus 52 weeks -0.02 [0.159]. 
Higher scores signal improvement in both FACIT-Fatigue and EQ5D. 
RA (Intravenous use) 
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of tocilizumab in alleviating the signs and symptoms of RA was assessed in five 
randomised, double-blind, multi-centre studies. Studies I-V enrolled patients  ≥ 18 years of age 
with active RA diagnosed according to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria and 
who had at least eight tender and six swollen joints at baseline. 
In Study I, tocilizumab was administered intravenously every four weeks as monotherapy. In 
Studies II, III and V, tocilizumab was administered intravenously every four weeks in combination 
with MTX vs. placebo and MTX. In Study IV, tocilizumab was administered intravenously every 
4 weeks in combination with other DMARDs vs. placebo and other DMARDs. The primary 
endpoint for each of the five studies was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR 20 
response at week 24. 
Study I evaluated 673 patients who had not been treated with MTX within six months prior to 
randomisation and who had not discontinued previous MTX treatment as a result of clinically 
important toxic effects or lack of response. The majority (67%) of patients were MTX-naïve. Doses 
of 8 mg/kg of tocilizumab were given every four weeks as monotherapy. The comparator group 
was weekly MTX (dose titrated from 7.5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg weekly over an eight week 
period). 
Study II, a two year study with planned analyses at week 24, week 52 and week 104, evaluated 1196 
patients who had an inadequate clinical response to MTX. Doses of 4 or 8 mg/kg of tocilizumab or 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo were given every four weeks as blinded therapy for 52 weeks in combination with stable 
MTX (10 mg to 25 mg weekly). After week 52, all patients could receive open-label treatment with 
tocilizumab 8 mg/kg. Of the patients who completed the study who were originally randomised to 
placebo + MTX, 86% received open-label tocilizumab 8 mg/kg in year 2. The primary endpoint at 
week 24 was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response. At week 52 and 
week 104 the co-primary endpoints were prevention of joint damage and improvement in physical 
function. 
Study III evaluated 623 patients who had an inadequate clinical response to MTX. Doses of 4 or 
8 mg/kg tocilizumab or placebo were given every four weeks, in combination with stable MTX 
(10 mg to 25 mg weekly). 
Study IV evaluated 1 220 patients who had an inadequate response to their existing rheumatologic 
therapy, including one or more DMARDs. Doses of 8 mg/kg tocilizumab or placebo were given 
every four weeks in combination with stable DMARDs. 
Study V evaluated 499 patients who had an inadequate clinical response or were intolerant to one 
or more TNF antagonist therapies. The TNF antagonist therapy was discontinued prior to 
randomisation. Doses of 4 or 8 mg/kg tocilizumab or placebo were given every four weeks in 
combination with stable MTX (10 mg to 25 mg weekly). 
Clinical response  
In all studies, patients treated with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg had statistically significant higher ACR 20, 
50, 70 response rates at 6 months compared to control (Table 5). In study I, superiority of 
tocilizumab 8 mg/kg was demonstrated against the active comparator MTX. 
The treatment effect was similar in patients independent of rheumatoid factor status, age, gender, 
race, number of prior treatments or disease status. Time to onset was rapid (as early as week 2) and 
the magnitude of response continued to improve with duration of treatment. Continued durable 
responses were seen for over 3 years in the ongoing open label extension studies I-V. 
In patients treated with tocilizumab 8 mg/kg, significant improvements were noted on all individual 
components of the ACR response including: tender and swollen joint counts; patients and physician 
global assessment; disability index scores; pain assessment and CRP compared to patients 
receiving placebo plus MTX or other DMARDs in all studies. 
Patients in studies I – V had a mean Disease Activity Score (DAS28) of 6.5–6.8 at baseline. 
Significant reduction in DAS28 from baseline (mean improvement) of 3.1–3.4 were observed in 
tocilizumab-treated patients compared to control patients (1.3-2.1). The proportion of patients 
achieving a DAS28 clinical remission (DAS28 < 2.6) was significantly higher in patients receiving 
tocilizumab (28–34%) compared to 1–12% of control patients at 24 weeks. In study II, 65% of 
patients achieved a DAS28 < 2.6 at week 104 compared to 48% at 52 weeks and 33% of patients at 
week 24. 
In a pooled analysis of studies II, III and IV, the proportion of patients achieving an ACR 20, 50 
and 70 response was significantly higher (59% vs. 50%, 37% vs. 27%, 18% vs. 11%, respectively) 
in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus DMARD vs. the tocilizumab 4 mg/kg plus DMARD group 
(p< 0.03). Similarly, the proportion of patients achieving a DAS 28 remission (DAS28 < 2.6) was 
significantly higher (31% vs. 16% respectively) in patients receiving tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus 
DMARD than in patients receiving tocilizumab 4 mg/kg plus DMARD (p<0.0001). 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: ACR responses in placebo-/MTX-/DMARDs-controlled studies (% patients) 
Study II  
LITHE 
Study I  
AMBITION 
Study III  
OPTION 
Week  TCZ  MTX  TCZ  PBO  TCZ  PBO  TCZ  PBO +  TCZ  PBO + 
8 mg/kg + MTX 8 mg/kg + MTX 8 mg/kg DMARD 8 mg/kg MTX 
+ MTX 
Study IV  
TOWARD 
Study V  
RADIATE 
  8 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
+ MTX 
+ 
  N=286  N=284  N=398  N=393  N=205  N=204  N=803  N=413  N=170  N=158 
  DMARD 
70%*** 52% 
ACR 20 
56%***  27%  59%***  26%  61%*** 
24%  50%***  10% 
56%***  25% 
ACR 50 
44%**  33%  32%***  10%  44%***  11%  38%*** 
9% 
29%***  4% 
36%***  10% 
ACR 70 
28%**  15%  13%***  2%  22%***  2%  21%*** 
3% 
12%**  1% 
20%***  4% 
24 
52 
24 
52 
24 
52 
- Tocilizumab 
TCZ 
- Methotrexate 
MTX 
PBO 
- Placebo 
DMARD  - Disease modifying anti-rheumatic drug 
** 
*** 
- p< 0.01, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX/DMARD 
- p< 0.0001, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX/DMARD 
Major clinical response 
After 2 years of treatment with tocilizumab plus MTX, 14% of patients achieved a major clinical 
response (maintenance of an ACR70 response for 24 weeks or more). 
Radiographic response 
In Study II, in patients with an inadequate response to MTX, inhibition of structural joint damage 
was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in modified Sharp score and its 
components, the erosion score and joint space narrowing score. Inhibition of joint structural 
damage was shown with significantly less radiographic progression in patients receiving 
tocilizumab compared to control (Table 6). 
In the open-label extension of Study II the inhibition of progression of structural joint damage in 
tocilizumab plus MTX-treated patients was maintained in the second year of treatment. The mean 
change from baseline at week 104 in total Sharp-Genant score was significantly lower for patients 
randomised to tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus MTX (p<0.0001) compared with patients who were 
randomised to placebo plus MTX. 
Table 6: Radiographic mean changes over 52 weeks in study II 
PBO + MTX(+ TCZ from week 24) 
N = 393 
1.13 
0.71 
0.42 
Total Sharp-Genant score 
Erosion score 
JSN score 
PBO 
MTX 
TCZ 
JSN 
* 
** 
Following 1 year of treatment with tocilizumab plus MTX, 85% of patients(n=348) had no progression 
of structural joint damage, as defined by a change in the Total Sharp Score of zero or less, compared 
- Placebo 
- Methotrexate 
- Tocilizumab 
- Joint space narrowing 
- p≤ 0.0001, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX 
- p< 0.005, TCZ vs. PBO + MTX 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX  
N = 398 
0.29* 
0.17* 
0.12** 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
with 67% of placebo plus MTX-treated patients(n=290) (p ≤0.001). This remained consistent 
following 2 years of treatment (83%; n=353). Ninety three percent (93%; n=271) of patients had no 
progression between week 52 and week 104. 
Health-related and quality of life outcomes 
Tocilizumab-treated patients reported an improvement in all patient-reported outcomes (Health 
Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index - HAQ-DI), Short Form-36 and Functional Assessment 
of Chronic Illness Therapy questionnaires. Statistically significant improvements in HAQ-DI scores 
were observed in patients treated with tocilizumab compared with patients treated with DMARDs. 
During the open-label period of Study II, the improvement in physical function has been maintained 
for up to 2 years. At Week 52, the mean change in HAQ-DI was -0.58 in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg 
plus MTX group compared with -0.39 in the placebo + MTX group. The mean change in HAQ-DI 
was maintained at Week 104 in the tocilizumab 8 mg/kg plus MTX group (-0.61). 
Haemoglobin levels 
Statistically significant improvements in haemoglobin levels were observed with tocilizumab 
compared with DMARDs (p<0.0001) at week 24. Mean haemoglobin levels increased by week 2 and 
remained within normal range through to week 24. 
Tocilizumab versus adalimumab in monotherapy 
Study VI (WA19924), a 24 week double-blinded study that compared tocilizumab monotherapy 
with adalimumab monotherapy, evaluated 326 patients with RA who were intolerant of MTX or 
where continued treatment with MTX was considered inappropriate (including MTX inadequate 
responders). Patients in the tocilizumab arm received an intravenous infusion of tocilizumab 
(8 mg/kg) every 4 weeks (q4w) and a subcutaneous placebo injection every 2 weeks (q2w). 
Patients in the adalimumab arm received an adalimumab subcutaneous injection (40 mg) q2w plus 
an intravenous placebo infusion q4w.  
A statistically significant superior treatment effect was seen in favour of tocilizumab over adalimumab 
in control of disease activity from baseline to week 24 for the primary endpoint of change in DAS28 
and for all secondary endpoints (Table 7). 
Table 7: Efficacy results for study VI (WA19924) 
Primary Endpoint - Mean Change from baseline at Week 24 
ADA + Placebo(IV) 
N = 162 
TCZ + Placebo(SC) 
N = 163 
p-value(a) 
DAS28 (adjusted mean) 
Difference in adjusted mean (95% CI) 
Secondary Endpoints - Percentage of Responders at Week 24 (b)
-1.5 (-1.8, -1.1) 
-1.8 
DAS28 < 2.6, n (%) 
DAS28 ≤ 3.2, n (%) 
ACR20 response, n (%) 
ACR50 response, n (%) 
ACR70 response, n (%) 
17 (10.5) 
32 (19.8) 
80 (49.4) 
45 (27.8) 
29 (17.9) 
-3.3 
65 (39.9) 
84 (51.5) 
106 (65.0) 
77 (47.2) 
53 (32.5) 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
0.0038 
0.0002 
0.0023 
a p value is adjusted for region and duration of RA for all endpoints and additionally baseline value for all continuous 
endpoints. 
b Non-responder Imputation used for missing data. Multiplicity controlled using Bonferroni-Holm Procedure 
The overall clinical adverse event profile was similar between tocilizumab and adalimumab. The 
proportion of patients with serious adverse events was balanced between the treatment groups 
(tocilizumab 11.7% vs. adalimumab 9.9%). The types of adverse drug reactions in the tocilizumab 
arm were consistent with the known safety profile of tocilizumab and adverse drug reactions were 
reported at a similar frequency compared with Table 1. A higher incidence of infections and 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
infestations was reported in the tocilizumab arm (48% vs. 42%), with no difference in the incidence 
of serious infections (3.1%). Both study treatments induced the same pattern of changes in 
laboratory safety parameters (decreases in neutrophil and platelet counts, increases in ALT, AST 
and lipids), however, the magnitude of change and the frequency of marked abnormalities was 
higher with tocilizumab compared with adalimumab. Four (2.5%) patients in the Tocilizumab arm 
and two (1.2%) patients in the adalimumab arm experienced CTC grade 3 or 4 neutrophil count 
decreases. Eleven (6.8%) patients in the tocilizumab arm and five (3.1%) patients in the 
adalimumab arm experienced ALT increases of CTC grade 2 or higher. The mean LDL increase 
from baseline was 0.64 mmol/L (25 mg/dL) for patients in the tocilizumab arm and 0.19 mmol/L 
(7 mg/dL) for patients in the adalimumab arm. The safety observed in the tocilizumab arm was 
consistent with the known safety profile of tocilizumab and no new or unexpected adverse drug 
reactions were observed (see Table 1). 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab is characterized by nonlinear elimination which is a 
combination of linear clearance and Michaelis-Menten elimination. The nonlinear part of 
tocilizumab elimination leads to an increase in exposure that is more than dose-proportional. The 
pharmacokinetic parameters of tocilizumab do not change with time. Due to the dependence of total 
clearance on tocilizumab serum concentrations, the half-life of tocilizumab is also concentration-
dependent and varies depending on the serum concentration level. Population pharmacokinetic 
analyses in any patient population tested so far indicate no relationship between apparent clearance 
and the presence of anti-drug antibodies. 
RA  
Intravenous use  
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab were determined using a population pharmacokinetic analysis 
on a database composed of 3552 RA patients treated with a one-hour infusion of 4 or 8 mg/kg 
tocilizumab every 4 weeks for 24 weeks or with 162 mg tocilizumab given subcutaneously either 
once a week or every other week for 24 weeks. 
The following parameters (predicted mean ± SD) were estimated for a dose of 8 mg/kg tocilizumab 
given every 4 weeks: steady-state area under curve (AUC) = 38 000 ± 13 000 h µg/mL, trough 
concentration (Cmin) = 15 9 ± 13 1 µg/mL and maximum concentration (Cmax) = 182 ± 50.4 µg/mL, 
and the accumulation ratios for AUC and Cmax were small, 1.32 and 1.09, respectively. The 
accumulation ratio was higher for Cmin (2.49), which was expected based on the non-linear 
clearance contribution at lower concentrations. Steady-state was reached following the first 
administration for Cmax and after 8 and 20 weeks for AUC and Cmin, respectively. Tocilizumab 
AUC, Cmin and Cmax increased with increase of body weight. At body weight ≥ 100 kg, the 
predicted mean (± SD) steady-state AUC, Cmin and Cmax of tocilizumab were 
50 000 ± 16 800 μg•h/mL, 24.4 ± 17.5 μg/mL, and 226 ± 50.3 μg/mL, respectively, which are 
higher than mean exposure values for the patient population (i.e. all body weights) reported above. 
The dose-response curve for tocilizumab flattens at higher exposure, resulting in smaller efficacy 
gains for each incremental increase in tocilizumab concentration such that clinically meaningful 
increases in efficacy were not demonstrated in patients treated with > 800 mg of tocilizumab.  
Therefore, tocilizumab doses exceeding 800 mg per infusion are not recommended (see section 
4.2). 
Distribution  
In RA patients the central volume of distribution was 3.72 L, the peripheral volume of distribution 
was 3.35 L resulting in a volume of distribution at steady state of 7.07 L. 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination  
Following intravenous administration, tocilizumab undergoes biphasic elimination from the 
circulation. The total clearance of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent and is the sum of the 
linear and non-linear clearance. The linear clearance was estimated as a parameter in the population 
pharmacokinetic analysis and was 9.5 mL/h. The concentration-dependent non-linear clearance 
plays a major role at low tocilizumab concentrations. Once the non-linear clearance pathway is 
saturated, at higher tocilizumab concentrations, clearance is mainly determined by the linear 
clearance. 
The t1/2 of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent. At steady-state following a dose of 8 mg/kg 
every 4 weeks, the effective t1/2 decreased with decreasing concentrations within a dosing interval 
from 18 days to 6 days. 
Linearity  
Pharmacokinetic parameters of tocilizumab did not change with time. A more than dose-
proportional increase in the AUC and Cmin was observed for doses of 4 and 8 mg/kg every 4 weeks. 
Cmax increased dose-proportionally. At steady-state, predicted AUC and Cmin were 3.2 and 30 fold 
higher at 8 mg/kg as compared to 4 mg/kg, respectively. 
Subcutaneous use  
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab were determined using a population pharmacokinetic analysis 
on a database composed of 3 552 RA patients treated with 162 mg subcutaneous every week, 
162 mg subcutaneous every other week, and or 4 or 8 mg/kg intravenous every 4 weeks for 
24 weeks. 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of tocilizumab did not change with time. For the 162 mg every 
week dose, the predicted mean (±SD) steady-state AUC1week, Cmin and Cmax of tocilizumab were 
7 970 ± 3 432 µg•h/mL, 43.0 ± 19.8 µg/mL, and 49.8 ± 21.0 µg/mL, respectively. The 
accumulation ratios for AUC, Cmin,
was reached after 12 weeks for AUC, Cmin, and Cmax. 
For the 162 mg every other week dose, the predicted mean (±SD) steady-state AUC2week, Cmin, and 
Cmax of tocilizumab were 3 430 ± 2 660 µg.h/mL, 5.7 ± 6.8 µg/mL, and 13.2 ± 8.8 µg/mL, 
respectively. The accumulation ratios for AUC, Cmin, and Cmax were 2.67, 6.02, and 2.12, 
respectively. Steady state was reached after 12 weeks for AUC and Cmin, and after 10 weeks for 
Cmax. 
 and Cmax were 6.32, 6.30, and 5.27, respectively. Steady state 
Absorption  
Following subcutaneous dosing in RA patients, the time to peak serum tocilizumab concentrations 
tmax was 2.8 days. The bioavailability for the subcutaneous formulation was 79%. 
Elimination  
For subcutaneous administration, the concentration-dependent apparent t 1/2 is up to 12 days for 
162 mg every week and 5 days for 162 mg every other week in patients with RA at steady-state. 
sJIA  
Subcutaneous Use  
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab in sJIA patients was characterized by a population 
pharmacokinetic analysis which included 140 patients who were treated with 8 mg/kg 
intravenously every 2 weeks (patients weighing ≥ 30 kg), 12 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks 
(patients weighing below 30 kg), 162 mg subcutaneously every week (patients weighing ≥ 30 kg), 
162 mg subcutaneously every 10 days or every 2 weeks (patients weighing below 30 kg). 
Limited data are available regarding exposures following subcutaneous administration of 
tocilizumab in sJIA patients below 2 years of age with a body weight less than 10 kg. 
Patients with sJIA must have a minimum body weight of 10 kg when receiving tocilizumab 
subcutaneously (see section 4.2). 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Predicted mean ± SD PK parameters at steady-state after subcutaneous dosing in 
sJIA 
Tocilizumab PK Parameter 
162 mg QW ≥ 30 kg 
162 mg Q2W below 30 kg 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Cmin (µg/mL) 
Cmean (µg/mL) 
Accumulation Cmax 
Accumulation Cmin 
Accumulation Cmean or AUCτ* 
99.8 ± 46.2 
79.2 ± 35.6 
91.3 ± 40.4 
3.66 
4.39 
4.28 
*τ = 1 week or 2 weeks for the two subcutaneous regimens 
134 ± 58.6 
65.9 ± 31.3 
101 ± 43.2 
1.88 
3.21 
2.27 
After subcutaneous dosing, approximately 90% of the steady-state was reached by week 12 for 
both the 162 mg QW and Q2W regimens. 
Absorption  
Following subcutaneous dosing in sJIA patients, the absorption half-life was around 2 days, and the 
bioavailability for the subcutaneous formulation in sJIA patients was 95%. 
Distribution  
In paediatric patients with sJIA, the central volume of distribution was 1.87 L, the peripheral 
volume of distribution was 2.14 L resulting in a volume of distribution at steady state of 4.01 L 
Elimination  
The total clearance of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent and is the sum of the linear 
clearance and the nonlinear clearance. The linear clearance was estimated as a parameter in the 
population pharmacokinetic analysis and was 5.7 mL/h in paediatric patients with systemic juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis. Following subcutaneous administration, the effective t1/2 of tocilizumab in sJIA 
patients is up to 14 days for both the 162 mg QW and Q2W regimens during a dosing interval at 
steady state. 
pJIA  
Subcutaneous use  
The pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab in pJIA patients was characterized by a population 
pharmacokinetic analysis which included 237 patients who were treated with 8 mg/kg 
intravenously every 4 weeks (patients weighing ≥ 30 kg), 10 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks 
(patients weighing below 30 kg), 162 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks (patients weighing 
≥ 30 kg), or 162 mg subcutaneously every 3 weeks (patients weighing below 30 kg). 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  9:  Predicted  mean  ±  SD  PK  parameters  at  steady-state  after  subcutaneous  dosing  in 
pJIA 
Tocilizumab PK Parameter 
162 mg Q2W ≥ 30 kg 
162 mg Q3W below 30 kg 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Cmin (µg/mL) 
Cavg (µg/mL) 
Accumulation Cmax 
Accumulation Cmin 
Accumulation Cmean or AUCτ * 
29.4 ± 13.5 
11.8 ± 7.08 
21.7 ± 10.4 
1.72 
3.58 
2.04 
*τ = 2 week or 3 week for the two subcutaneous regimens 
75.5 ± 24.1 
18.4 ± 12.9 
45.5 ± 19.8 
1.32 
2.08 
1.46 
After intravenous dosing, approximately 90% of the steady-state was reached by Week 12 for the 
10 mg/kg (BW < 30 kg), and by Week 16 for the 8 mg/kg (BW ≥ 30 kg) dose. After subcutaneous 
dosing, approximately 90% of the steady-state was reached by Week 12 for both the 162 mg 
subcutaneous Q2W and Q3W regimens. 
Absorption  
Following subcutaneous dosing in pJIA patients, the absorption half-life was around 2 days, and 
the bioavailability for the subcutaneous formulation in pJIA patients was 96%. 
Distribution  
In paediatric patients with pJIA, the central volume of distribution was 1.97 L, the peripheral 
volume of distribution was 2.03 L, resulting in a volume of distribution at steady state of 4.0 L. 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis for pJIA patients showed body size related impact on linear 
clearance so that body-weight based dosing should be taken into consideration (see Table 9). 
After subcutaneous administration, the effective t1/2 of tocilizumab in pJIA patients is up to 
10 days for patients < 30 kg (162 mg subcutaneous Q3W) and up to 7 days for patients ≥ 30 kg 
(162 mg subcutaneous Q2W) during a dosing interval at steady state. Following intravenous 
administration, tocilizumab undergoes biphasic elimination from the circulation. The total 
clearance of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent and is the sum of the linear and non-linear 
clearance. The linear clearance was estimated as a parameter in the population pharmacokinetic 
analysis and was 6.25 mL/h. The concentration-dependent non-linear clearance plays a major role 
at low tocilizumab concentrations. Once the nonlinear clearance pathway is saturated, at higher 
tocilizumab concentrations, clearance is mainly determined by the linear clearance. 
GCA  
Subcutaneous use  
The PK of tocilizumab in GCA patients were determined using a population PK model from an 
analysis dataset composed of 149 GCA patients treated with 162 mg subcutaneous every week or 
162 mg subcutaneous every other week. The developed model had the same structure as the 
population PK model developed earlier based on data from RA patients (see Table 10). 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Predicted mean ± SD PK parameters at steady-state after subcutaneous dosing in 
GCA 
Tocilizumab PK Parameter 
162 mg every other weekly 
162 mg weekly 
Subcutaneous 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Ctrough (µg/mL) 
Cmean (µg/mL) 
Accumulation Cmax 
Accumulation Ctrough 
Accumulation Cmean or AUCτ * 
*τ = 2 week or 1 week for the two subcutaneous regimens 
19.3 ± 12.8 
11.1 ± 10.3 
16.2 ± 11.8 
2.18 
5.61 
2.81 
73 ± 30.4 
68.1 ± 29.5 
71.3 ± 30.1 
8.88 
9.59 
10.91 
The steady-state profile following the tocilizumab weekly dose was almost flat, with very little 
fluctuations between trough and peak values, while there were substantial fluctuations for the 
tocilizumab every other weekly dose. Approximately 90% of the steady-state (AUCτ) was reached 
by week 14 in the every other weekly and week 17 in the weekly dose groups. 
Based on the current characterization of PK, tocilizumab trough concentration at steady state are 
50% higher in this population relative to average concentrations in a large dataset from the RA 
population. These differences occur due to unknown reasons. PK differences are not accompanied 
by marked differences in PD parameters and so the clinical relevance is unknown. 
In GCA patients, higher exposure was observed in patients with lower body weight. For the 
162 mg every week dosing regimen, the steady-state Cavg was 51% higher in patients with body 
weight less than 60 kg compared to patients weighing between 60 to 100 kg. For the 162 mg every 
other week regimen, the steady-state Cavg was 129% higher in patients with body weight less than 
60 kg compared to patients weighing between 60 to 100 kg. There is limited data for patients above 
100 kg (n=7). 
Absorption  
Following subcutaneous dosing in GCA patients, the absorption t1/2 was around 4 days. The 
bioavailability for the subcutaneous formulation was 0.8. The median values of Tmax were 3 days 
after the tocilizumab weekly dose and 4.5 days after the tocilizumab every other week dose. 
Distribution  
In GCA patients, the central volume of distribution was 4.09 L, the peripheral volume of 
distribution was 3.37 L, resulting in a volume of distribution at steady state of 7.46 L. 
Elimination  
The total clearance of tocilizumab was concentration-dependent and is the sum of the linear 
clearance and the nonlinear clearance. The linear clearance was estimated as a parameter in the 
population pharmacokinetic analysis and was 6.7 mL/h in GCA patients. 
In GCA patients, at steady state, the effective t 1/2 of tocilizumab varied between 18.3 and 18.9 days 
for 162 mg weekly regimen, and between 4.2 and 7.9 days for 162 mg every other weekly regimen. 
At high serum concentrations, when total clearance of tocilizumab is dominated by linear 
clearance, an effective t 1/2 of approximately 32 days was derived from the population parameter 
estimates. 
104 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations  
Renal impairment 
No formal study of the effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab has been 
conducted. Most of the patients in the RA and GCA studies population pharmacokinetic analysis 
had normal renal function or mild renal impairment. Mild renal impairment (estimated creatinine 
clearance based on Cockcroft-Gault formula) did not impact the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab. 
Approximately one-third of the patients in the GCA study had moderate renal impairment at 
baseline (estimated creatinine clearance of 30-59 mL/min). No impact on tocilizumab exposure 
was noted in these patients. 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
No formal study of the effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab has 
been conducted. 
Age, gender and ethnicity 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses in RA and GCA patients, showed that age, gender and ethnic 
origin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab. 
Results of the population PK analysis for sJIA and pJIA patients confirmed that body size is the 
only covariate which has an appreciable impact on the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab including 
elimination and absorption so that body-weight based dosing should be taken into consideration 
(see Tables 8 and 9). 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity and toxicity to reproduction and development. 
Carcinogenicity studies were not performed because IgG1 monoclonal antibodies are not deemed 
to have intrinsic carcinogenic potential. 
Available non-clinical data demonstrated the effect of IL-6 on malignant progression and apoptosis 
resistance to various cancer types. This data does not suggest a relevant risk for cancer initiation 
and progression under tocilizumab treatment. Additionally, proliferative lesions were not observed 
in a 6-month chronic toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys or in IL-6 deficient mice. 
Available non-clinical data do not suggest an effect on fertility under tocilizumab treatment. 
Effects on endocrine active and reproductive system organs were not observed in a chronic 
cynomolgus monkey toxicity study and reproductive performance was not affected in IL-6 
deficient mice. Tocilizumab administered to cynomolgus monkeys during early gestation, was 
observed to have no direct or indirect harmful effect on pregnancy or embryonal-foetal 
development. However, a slight increase in abortion/embryonal-foetal death was observed with 
high systemic exposure (> 100 x human exposure) in the 50 mg/kg/day high-dose group compared 
to placebo and other low-dose groups. Although IL-6 does not seem to be a critical cytokine for 
foetal growth or the immunological control of the maternal/foetal interface, a relation of this 
finding to tocilizumab cannot be excluded. 
Treatment with a murine analogue did not exert toxicity in juvenile mice. In particular, there was 
no impairment of skeletal growth, immune function and sexual maturation. 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The non-clinical safety profile of tocilizumab in the cynomolgus monkey does not suggest a 
difference between intravenous and subcutaneous routes of administration. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
L-arginine  
L-histidine  
L-lactic acid  
Sodium chloride  
Polysorbate 80  
Hydrochloric acid (E507) and/or sodium hydroxide (E524) (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2 Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other 
medicinal products. 
6.3 
Shelf life  
3 years 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
A single pre-filled pen may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25 °C for a single period 
of up to 14 days. The pre-filled pen must be protected from light, and discarded if not used within 
the 14 day period. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
0.9 mL solution in a pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a staked stainless steel needle with a latex-
free needle cap, a plunger stopper (bromobutyl rubber), containing 162 mg Tyenne assembled into a 
pre-filled pen.  
Pack sizes of 1 and 4 pre-filled pens and multipacks containing 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Tyenne is supplied in a single use pre-filled pen. After removing the pre-filled pen from the 
refrigerator the pre-filled pen should be allowed to reach room temperature by waiting for 
45 minutes, before injecting Tyenne. The pen should not be shaken.  
After removing the cap the injection must be started right away, to prevent the medicine from 
drying out and blocking the needle. If the pre-filled pen is not used right away after removing the 
cap, you must dispose it of in a puncture resistant container and use a new pre-filled pen. 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If following pressing the activation button the orange plunger rod does not move, you must dispose 
of the pre-filled pen in a puncture resistant container. Do not try to re-use the pre-filled pen. Do not 
repeat the injection with another pre-filled pen. Call your healthcare provider for help. 
Do not use if the medicine is cloudy or contains particles, is any colour besides colourless to pale 
yellow, or any part of the pre-filled pen appears to be damaged. 
Comprehensive instructions for the administration of Tyenne in a pre-filled pen are given in the 
package leaflet. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1754/010 
EU/1/23/1754/011 
EU/1/23/1754/012 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/DATE OF LATEST RENEWAL 
Date of first authorisation: 15 September 2023 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
10. 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/.  
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND> MANUFACTURER(S) 
RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Merck Serono S.A.  
Chemin du Fenil, Zone Industrielle B 
1804 Corsier-sur-Vevey 
Switzerland 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Fresenius Kabi Austria GmbH 
Hafnerstrasse 36 
8055 Graz 
Austria 
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of 
Product Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C. 
• 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic safety update reports (PSUR) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The market authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall provide an educational pack covering the 
therapeutic indications RA, sJIA, pJIA and GCA, targeting all physicians who are expected to 
prescribe/use Tyenne containing the following: 
• 
 Physician Information Pack 
•  Nurse Information Pack 
• 
Patient Information Pack 
The MAH must agree the content and format of the educational material, together with a 
communication plan (including means of distribution), with the national competent authority prior 
to distribution of the educational material. 
The Physician Information pack should contain the following key elements: 
•  Reference to the Summary of Product Characteristics (e.g., link to EMA website) 
•  Dose calculation (RA, sJIA and pJIA patients), preparation of infusion and infusion rate 
•  Risk of serious infections 
•  The product must not be given to patients with active or suspected infection 
•  The product may lessen signs and symptoms of acute infection delaying the diagnosis 
•  Risk of Hepatotoxicity 
•  Caution should be exercised when considering initiation of tocilizumab treatment in 
patients with elevated transaminases ALT or AST above 1.5x ULN. In patients with 
elevated ALT or AST above 5x ULN treatment is not recommended. 
In RA, GCA, pJIA and sJIA, ALT/AST should be monitored every 4 to 8 weeks for 
the first 6 months of treatment followed by every 12 weeks thereafter. The 
recommended dose modifications, including tocilizumab discontinuation, based on 
transaminases levels, in line with SmPC section 4.2. 
• 
•  Risk of gastrointestinal perforations especially in patients with history of diverticulitis 
or intestinal ulcerations 
The Patient Information Packs (to be given to patients by healthcare professionals) 
•  Details on how to report serious adverse drug reactions 
• 
•  Guidance on how to diagnose Macrophage Activation Syndrome in sJIA patients 
•  Recommendations for dose interruptions in sJIA and pJIA patients 
The Nurse Information Pack should contain the following key elements: 
• 
Prevention of medical errors and injection/infusion related reactions 
•  Preparation of injection/infusion 
• 
Infusion rate 
•  Monitoring of the patient for injection/infusion related reactions 
•  Details on how to report serious adverse reactions 
The Patient Information Pack should contain the following key elements: 
• 
• 
- 
- 
- 
Package leaflet (with instructions for use for subcutaneous route of administration) (e.g., link 
to EMA website) 
Patient alert card 
to address the risk of getting infections which can become serious if not treated. In addition, 
some previous infections may reappear. 
to  address  the  risk  that  patients  using  Tyenne  may  develop  complications  of  diverticulitis 
which can become serious if not treated. 
to address the risk that patients using Tyenne may develop serious hepatic injury. Patients 
would be monitored for liver function tests. Patients should inform their doctor immediately 
if they experience signs and symptoms of liver toxicity including tiredness, abdominal pain 
and jaundice. 
110 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
VIAL CARTON (WITH BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyenne 20 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion  
tocilizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 vial contains 80 mg tocilizumab. 
1 vial contains 200 mg tocilizumab. 
1 vial contains 400 mg tocilizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 80, E507 and/or E524, water for 
injections.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
80 mg/4 mL 
1 vial of 4 mL 
200 mg/10 mL 
1 vial of 10 mL 
400 mg/20 mL 
1 vial of 20 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous infusion after dilution 
The diluted product should be used immediately 
Read the package leaflet before use 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator  
Do not freeze 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1754/001 
EU/1/23/1754/003 
EU/1/23/1754/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
VIAL CARTON (WITH BLUE BOX) - Multipack 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyenne 20 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion  
tocilizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 vial contains 80 mg tocilizumab. 
1 vial contains 200 mg tocilizumab 
1 vial contains 400 mg tocilizumab 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 80, E507 and/or E524, water for 
injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
80 mg/4 mL 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) vials of 4 mL 
200 mg/10 mL 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) vials of 10 mL  
400 mg/20 mL 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) vials of 20 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous infusion after dilution 
The diluted product should be used immediately. Read the package leaflet before use 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator  
Do not freeze 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1754/002 
EU/1/23/1754/004 
EU/1/23/1754/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
VIAL CARTON (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) – Multipack 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyenne 20 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion  
tocilizumab  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 vial contains 80 mg tocilizumab. 
1 vial contains 200 mg tocilizumab 
1 vial contains 400 mg tocilizumab 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 80, E507and/or E524, water for 
injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
80 mg/4 mL 
1 vial of 4 mL. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
200 mg/10 mL 
1 vial of 10 mL. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
400 mg/20mL 
1 vial of 20 mL. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous infusion after dilution 
The diluted product should be used immediately 
Read the package leaflet before use 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
6. 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator  
Do not freeze 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1754/002 
EU/1/23/1754/004 
EU/1/23/1754/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Tyenne 20 mg/mL sterile concentrate 
tocilizumab 
IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5.  CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
80 mg/4 mL 
200 mg/10 mL 
400 mg/20 mL 
6.  OTHER 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyenne 162 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
tocilizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 pre-filled syringe contains 162 mg tocilizumab 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 80, E507 and/or E524, water for 
injections.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
1 pre-filled syringe 
4 pre-filled syringes 
12 pre-filled syringes 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze.  
A pre-filled syringe can be stored for a single period of up to 14 days at or below 25 °C. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1754/007 
EU/1/23/1754/008 
EU/1/23/1754/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Tyenne 162 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Tyenne162 mg injection 
tocilizumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5.  CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
162 mg 
6.  OTHER 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
PRE-FILLED PEN CARTON (WITH BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyenne162 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
tocilizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 pre-filled pen contains 162 mg tocilizumab 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 80,  E507 and/or E524, water for 
injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
1 pre-filled pen 
4 pre-filled pens 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator  
Do not freeze 
A pre-filled pen can be stored for a single period of up to 14 days at or below 25 °C. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1754/010 
EU/1/23/1754/011 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Tyenne 162 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
PRE-FILLED PEN CARTON (WITH BLUE BOX) - Multipack 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyenne 162 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
tocilizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 pre-filled pen contains 162 mg tocilizumab 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 80, E507 and/or E524, water for 
injections.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Multipack: 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator  
Do not freeze. 
A pre-filled pen can be stored for a single period of up to 14 days at or below 25 °C. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1754/012 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Tyenne 162 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
PRE-FILLED PEN CARTON (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) - Multipack 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyenne 162 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
tocilizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 pre-filled pen contains 162 mg tocilizumab 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 80, E507 and/or E524, water for 
injections.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen,  
4 pre-filled pens. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator  
Do not freeze. 
A pre-filled pen can be stored for a single period of up to 14 days at or below 25 °C. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1754/012 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Tyenne162 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER PACK FOR PEN 
1. 
 NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyenne 162 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
tocilizumab  
2. 
 NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
SC 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN LABEL 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Tyenne162 mg injection 
tocilizumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5.  CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
162 mg 
6.  OTHER 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Tyenne 20 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
tocilizumab 
▼This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 
4 for how to report side effects.  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
In addition to this leaflet, you will be given a Patient Alert Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Tyenne. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Tyenne is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Tyenne 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Tyenne is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Tyenne 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Tyenne is and what it is used for 
Tyenne contains the active substance tocilizumab, which is a protein made from specific immune 
cells (monoclonal antibody), that blocks the action of a specific protein (cytokine) called 
interleukin-6. This protein is involved in inflammatory processes of the body, and blocking it can 
reduce the inflammation in your body. Tyenne helps to reduce symptoms such as pain and swelling 
in your joints and can also improve your performance of daily tasks. Tyenne has been shown to 
slow the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and to improve your 
ability to do normal daily activities. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tyenne is used to treat adults with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 
an autoimmune disease, if previous therapies did not work well enough. Tyenne is usually 
given in combination with methotrexate. However, Tyenne can be given alone if your doctor 
determines that methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Tyenne can also be used to treat adults who have not had previous methotrexate treatment if 
they have severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis. 
Tyenne is used to treat children with sJIA. Tyenne is used for children aged 2 years and 
over who have active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA), an inflammatory 
disease that causes pain and swelling in one or more joints as well as fever and rash. Tyenne 
is used to improve the symptoms of sJIA and can be given in combination with methotrexate 
or alone. 
Tyenne is used to treat children with pJIA. Tyenne is used for children aged 2 years and 
over with active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA), an inflammatory disease 
that causes pain and swelling in one or more joints. Tyenne is used to improve the symptoms 
of pJIA and can be given in combination with methotrexate or alone. 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Tyenne is used to treat adults and children aged 2 years and over with severe or life-
threatening cytokine release syndrome (CRS), a side-effect in patients treated with 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies used to treat certain types of cancer. 
Tyenne is used to treat adults with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), receiving 
systemic corticosteroids and requiring supplemental oxygen or mechanical ventilation. 
2. 
What you need to know before you are given Tyenne 
Tyenne must not be given 
• 
if you are allergic to tocilizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you have an active, severe infection. 
• 
If any of these applies to you, tell the doctor or nurse giving you the infusion. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Tyenne. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, wheezing, severe dizziness or 
light-headedness, swelling of the lips or skin rash during or after the infusion, then tell your 
doctor immediately. 
If you have any kind of infection, short- or long-term, or if you often get infections. Tell 
your doctor immediately if you feel unwell. Tyenne can reduce your body’s ability to 
respond to infections and may make an existing infection worse or increase the chance of 
getting a new infection. 
If you have had tuberculosis, tell your doctor. Your doctor will check for signs and 
symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Tyenne. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent 
cough, weight loss, listlessness, mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after 
therapy tell your doctor immediately. 
If you have had intestinal ulcers or diverticulitis, tell your doctor. Symptoms would 
include abdominal pain and unexplained changes in bowel habits with a fever. 
If you have liver disease, tell your doctor. Before you use Tyenne, your doctor may do a 
blood test to measure your liver function. 
If any patient has recently been vaccinated (either adult or child), or is planning a 
vaccination, tell your doctor. All patients, especially children, should be up-to-date with all 
their vaccinations before they start treatment with Tyenne, unless urgent treatment initiation 
is required Certain types of vaccines should not be used while receiving Tyenne. 
If you have cancer, tell your doctor. Your doctor will have to decide if you can still be given 
Tyenne. 
If you have risk factors for heart disease such as raised blood pressure and raised cholesterol 
levels, tell your doctor. These factors need to be monitored while receiving Tyenne. 
If you have moderate to severe kidney function problems, your doctor will monitor you. 
If you have persistent headaches. 
Your doctor will perform blood tests before you are given Tyenne, and during your treatment, to 
determine if you have a low white blood cell count, low platelet count or high liver enzymes. 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
Tyenne is not recommended for use in children under 2 years of age. 
If a child has a history of macrophage activation syndrome, (activation and uncontrolled 
proliferation of specific blood cells), tell your doctor. Your doctor will have to decide if they can 
still be given Tyenne. 
Other medicines and Tyenne 
Tell your doctor if you are taking any other medicines (or your child is, if they are the patient), or 
have recently taken any. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription. Tyenne can 
affect the way some medicines work, and the dose of these may require adjustment. If you are 
using medicines containing any of the following active substances, tell your doctor: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
methylprednisolone, dexamethasone, used to reduce inflammation 
simvastatin or atorvastatin, used to reduce cholesterol levels 
calcium channel blockers (such as amlodipine), used to treat  high blood pressure 
theophylline, used to treat asthma 
warfarin or phenprocoumon, used as a blood thinning agents 
phenytoin, used to treat convulsions 
ciclosporin, used to suppress your immune system during organ transplants 
benzodiazepines (such as temazepam), used to relieve anxiety. 
Regarding vaccinations, please see the section on warnings above. 
Due to lack of clinical experience, Tyenne is not recommended for use with other biological 
medicines for the treatment of RA, sJIA or pJIA. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Tyenne is not to be used in pregnancy unless clearly necessary. Talk to your doctor if you are 
pregnant, may be pregnant, or intend to become pregnant. 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during and up to 3 months after 
treatment. 
Stop breast-feeding if you are to be given Tyenne, and talk to your doctor. Leave a gap of at least 
3 months after your last treatment before you start breast-feeding. It is not known whether Tyenne 
passes into breast milk. 
The data available so far does not suggest any effect on fertility from this treatment. 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine can cause dizziness. If you feel dizzy, do not drive or use machines. 
Tyenne contains sodium 
This medicine contains 0.24 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each mL. This is 
equivalent to 0.012% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
Tyenne is however, diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%)  or 4.5 mg/mL (0.45%) solution for 
infusion. This should be taken into consideration for patients on a controlled sodium diet. 
3. 
How Tyenne is given 
This medicine is subject to restricted medical prescription by your doctor. 
Tyenne will be given to you as a drip into a vein, by a doctor or a nurse. They will dilute the 
solution, set up the intravenous infusion and monitor you during and after the treatment. 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adult patients with RA 
The usual dose of Tyenne is 8 mg per kg of body weight. Depending on your response, your doctor 
may decrease your dose to 4 mg/kg then increase back to 8 mg/kg when appropriate. 
Adults will be given Tyenne once every 4 weeks through a drip in the vein (intravenous infusion) 
over one hour. 
Children with sJIA (aged 2 and over)  
The usual dose of Tyenne depends on your weight. 
• 
• 
The dose is calculated based on your body weight at each administration. 
If you weigh less than 30 kg: the dose is 12 mg for every kilogram of body weight 
If you weigh 30 kg or more: the dose is 8 mg for every kilogram of body weight  
Children with sJIA will be given Tyenne once every 2 weeks through a drip in the vein 
(intravenous infusion) over one hour. 
Children with pJIA (aged 2 and over)  
The usual dose of Tyenne depends on your weight. 
• 
• 
The dose is calculated based on your body weight at each administration. 
If you weigh less than 30 kg: the dose is 10 mg for every kilogram of body weight 
If you weigh 30 kg or more: the dose is 8 mg for every kilogram of body weight  
Children with pJIA will be given Tyenne once every 4 weeks through a drip in the vein 
(intravenous infusion) over one hour. 
Patients with CRS 
The usual dose of Tyenne is 8 mg for every kg of body weight if you weigh 30 kg or more. 
The dose is 12 mg for every kg of body weight if you weigh less than 30 kg. 
Tyenne can be given alone or in combination with corticosteroids. 
Patients with COVID-19  
The usual dose of Tyenne is 8 mg for every kg of body weight. A second dose may be required. 
If you are given more Tyenne than you should 
Since Tyenne is given by a doctor or nurse, it is unlikely that you will be given too much. 
However, if you are worried, talk to your doctor. 
If you miss a dose of Tyenne 
Since Tyenne is given by a doctor or nurse, it is unlikely that you will miss a dose. However, if you 
are worried, talk to your doctor or nurse. 
If you stop receiving Tyenne 
You should not stop receiving Tyenne without discussing with your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Tyenne can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Side effects 
could occur at least up to 3 months after your last dose of Tyenne. 
Possible serious side effects: tell a doctor straight away.  
These are common: they may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Allergic reactions during or after infusion: 
• 
• 
difficulty with breathing, chest tightness or light-headedness 
rash, itching, hives, swelling of the lips, tongue or face  
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you notice any of these, tell your doctor immediately. 
Signs of serious infections 
• 
fever and chills 
• 
mouth or skin blisters 
• 
stomach ache 
Signs and symptoms of liver toxicity 
These may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people 
• 
• 
• 
tiredness, 
abdominal pain, 
jaundice (yellow discolouration of skin or eyes) 
If you notice any of these, tell your doctor as soon as possible. 
Very common side effects: 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
upper respiratory tract infections with typical symptoms such as cough, blocked nose, runny 
nose, sore throat and headache 
high blood fat (cholesterol) levels. 
• 
Common side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
lung infection (pneumonia) 
shingles (herpes zoster) 
cold sores (oral herpes simplex), blisters 
skin infection (cellulitis) sometimes with fever and chills 
rash and itching, hives 
allergic (hypersensitivity) reactions 
eye infection (conjunctivitis) 
headache, dizziness, high blood pressure 
mouth ulcers, stomach pain 
fluid retention (oedema) in the lower legs, weight increase 
cough, shortness of breath 
low white blood cell counts shown by blood tests (neutropenia, leucopenia) 
abnormal liver function tests (increased transaminases) 
increased bilirubin shown by blood tests 
low fibrinogen levels in the blood (a protein involved in blood clotting). 
Uncommon side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
diverticulitis (fever, nausea, diarrhoea, constipation, stomach pain) 
red swollen areas in the mouth 
high blood fat (triglycerides) 
stomach ulcer 
kidney stones 
underactive thyroid. 
Rare side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people 
• 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (skin rash, which may lead to severe blistering and peeling of the 
skin) 
fatal allergic reactions (anaphylaxis [fatal]) 
inflammation of the liver (hepatitis), jaundice 
• 
• 
Very rare side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
low counts for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelets in blood tests 
liver failure 
Children with sJIA 
In general, side effects in sJIA patients were of a similar type to those in adults with RA. Some side 
effects were seen more often: inflamed nose and throat, diarrhoea, lower white blood cell counts 
and higher liver enzymes. 
Children with pJIA 
In general, side effects in pJIA patients were of a similar type to those in adults with RA. Some 
side effects were seen more often: inflamed nose and throat, headache, feeling sick (nausea) and 
lower white blood cell counts. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on 
the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tyenne 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C - 8 °C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Tyenne contains 
• 
The active substance is tocilizumab. 
Each 4 mL vial contains 80 mg tocilizumab (20 mg/mL).  
Each 10 mL vial contains 200 mg tocilizumab (20 mg/mL).  
Each 20 mL vial contains 400 mg tocilizumab (20 mg/mL). 
• 
The other ingredients are L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 80, 
hydrochloric acid (E507) and/or sodium hydroxide (E524), water for injections. 
Regarding sodium, please see section 2 “Tyenne contains sodium” above. 
What Tyenne looks like and contents of the pack 
Tyenne is a concentrate for solution for infusion. The concentrate is a clear and colourless to pale 
yellow liquid. 
Tyenne is supplied as vials containing 4 mL, 10 mL and 20 mL concentrate for solution for 
infusion. Each pack contains 1 vial and multipacks contain 4 (4 packs of 1) vials. Not all pack sizes 
may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Fresenius Kabi Austria GmbH 
Hafnerstrasse 36 
8055 Graz 
Austria 
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/.  
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Instructions for dilution prior to administration 
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulate matter or discolouration 
prior to administration. Only solutions which are clear and colourless to pale yellow and free of 
visible particles should be diluted. Use a sterile needle and syringe to prepare Tyenne. 
RA, COVID-19 and CRS adult patients (≥ 30 kg) 
Withdraw a volume of sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL 
(0.45%) solution for injection from a 100 mL infusion bag, equal to the volume of Tyenne 
concentrate required for the patients dose, under aseptic conditions. The required amount of 
Tyenne concentrate (0.4 mL/kg) should be withdrawn from the vial and placed in the 100 mL 
infusion bag. This should be a final volume of 100 mL. To mix the solution, gently invert the 
infusion bag to avoid foaming. 
Use in the paediatric population 
sJIA, pJIA and CRS patients ≥ 30 kg 
Withdraw a volume of sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL 
(0.45%) solution for injection from a 100 mL infusion bag, equal to the volume of Tyenne 
concentrate required for the patients dose, under aseptic conditions. The required amount of 
Tyenne concentrate (0.4 mL/kg) should be withdrawn from the vial and placed in the 100 mL 
infusion bag. This should be a final volume of 100 mL. To mix the solution, gently invert the 
infusion bag to avoid foaming. 
sJIA and CRS patients < 30 kg 
Withdraw a volume of sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL 
(0.45%) solution for injection from a 50 mL infusion bag, equal to the volume of Tyenne 
concentrate required for the patients dose, under aseptic conditions. The required amount of 
Tyenne concentrate (0.6 mL/kg) should be withdrawn from the vial and placed in the 50 mL 
infusion bag. This should be a final volume of 50 mL. To mix the solution, gently invert the 
infusion bag to avoid foaming. 
pJIA patients < 30 kg 
Withdraw a volume of sterile, non-pyrogenic sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) or 4.5 mg/mL 
(0.45%) solution for injection from a 50 mL infusion bag, equal to the volume of Tyenne 
concentrate required for the patients dose, under aseptic conditions. The required amount of 
Tyenne concentrate (0.5 mL/kg) should be withdrawn from the vial and placed in the 50 mL 
infusion bag. This should be a final volume of 50 mL. To mix the solution, gently invert the 
infusion bag to avoid foaming. 
Tyenne is for single-use only. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.  
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Tyenne 162 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
tocilizumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 
4 for how to report side effects.  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it onto others. It may harm 
them even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
In addition to this leaflet, you will be given a Patient Alert Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Tyenne. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Tyenne is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Tyenne 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Tyenne 
Possible side effects 
How to store Tyenne 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Tyenne is and what it is used for 
Tyenne contains the active substance tocilizumab, which is a protein made from specific immune 
cells (monoclonal antibody), that blocks the action of a specific protein (cytokine) called 
interleukin-6. This protein is involved in inflammatory processes of the body, and blocking it can 
reduce the inflammation in your body. Tyenne is used to treat: 
• 
• 
• 
adults with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease, 
if previous therapies did not work well enough. 
adults with severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis (RA), who have not had 
previous treatment with methotrexate. 
Tyenne helps to reduce RA symptoms such as pain and swelling in your joints, and can also 
improve your performance of daily tasks. Tyenne has been shown to slow the damage to the 
cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and to improve your ability to do 
normal daily activities. 
Tyenne is usually given in combination with another medicine for RA called methotrexate. 
However, Tyenne can be given alone if your doctor determines that methotrexate is 
inappropriate. 
adults with a disease of the arteries called giant cell arteritis (GCA), caused by 
inflammation of the body’s largest arteries, especially those that supply blood to the head 
and neck. Symptoms include headache, fatigue (tiredness) and jaw pain. Effects can include 
strokes and blindness. 
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tyenne can reduce pain and swelling in the arteries and veins in your head, neck and arms. 
GCA is often treated with medicines called steroids. They are usually effective, but can have 
side effects if used at high doses for a long time. Reducing the steroid dose can also lead to a 
flare-up of the GCA. Adding Tyenne to the treatment means that steroids can be used for a 
shorter time, while still controlling the disease. 
children and adolescents, aged 1 year and over, with active systemic juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis (sJIA), an inflammatory disease that causes pain and swelling in one or more joints 
as well as fever and rash. 
Tyenne is used to improve the symptoms of sJIA. It can be given in combination with 
methotrexate or alone. 
children and adolescents, aged 2 years and over, with active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (pJIA). This is an inflammatory disease that causes pain and swelling in 
one or more joints. 
Tyenne is used to improve the symptoms of pJIA. It can be given in combination with 
methotrexate or alone. 
• 
• 
2. 
What you need to know before you use Tyenne 
Do not use Tyenne 
• 
if you or a child patient you look after are allergic to tocilizumab or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you or a child patient you look after have an active, severe infection. 
• 
If either of these applies to you, tell a doctor. Do not use Tyenne. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Tyenne. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, wheezing, severe dizziness or 
lightheadedness, swelling of the lips, tongue, face or skin itching, hives or rash during or 
after the injection, then tell your doctor immediately. 
Do not take the next dose until you have informed your doctor AND your doctor has told 
you to take the next dose if you have experienced any allergic reaction symptoms after 
Tyenne administration. 
If you have any kind of infection, short- or long-term, or if you often get infections. Tell 
your doctor immediately if you feel unwell. Tyenne can reduce your body’s ability to 
respond to infections and may make an existing infection worse or increase the chance of 
getting a new infection. 
If you have had tuberculosis, tell your doctor. Your doctor will check for signs and 
symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Tyenne. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent 
cough, weight loss, listlessness, mild fever) or any other infection appear during or after 
therapy tell your doctor immediately. 
If you have had intestinal ulcers or diverticulitis, tell your doctor. Symptoms would 
include abdominal pain and unexplained changes in bowel habits with a fever. 
If you have liver disease, tell your doctor. Before you use Tyenne, your doctor may do a 
blood test to measure your liver function. 
141 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any patient has recently been vaccinated, or is planning a vaccination, tell your doctor. 
All patients should be up-to-date with all their vaccinations before they start treatment with 
Tyenne. Certain types of vaccines should not be given while receiving Tyenne. 
If you have cancer, tell your doctor. Your doctor will have to decide if you can still be given 
Tyenne. 
If you have risk factors for heart disease such as raised blood pressure and raised 
cholesterol levels, tell your doctor. These factors need to be monitored while receiving 
Tyenne. 
If you have moderate to severe kidney function problems, your doctor will monitor you. 
If you have persistent headaches. 
Your doctor will perform a blood test before you receive Tyenne, to determine if you have a low 
white blood cell count, low platelet count or high liver enzymes. 
Children and adolescents 
Tyenne pre-filled syringe is not recommended for use in children under 1 year of age. 
Tyenne must not be given to children with sJIA (systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis)  weighing 
less than 10 kg. 
If a child has a history of macrophage activation syndrome (activation and uncontrolled 
proliferation of specific blood cells), tell your doctor. Your doctor will have to decide if they can 
still be given Tyenne. 
Other medicines and Tyenne 
Tell your doctor if you are taking any other medicines, or have recently taken any. Tyenne can 
affect the way some medicines work, and the dose of these may require adjustment. If you are 
using medicines containing any of the following active substances, tell your doctor: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
methylprednisolone, dexamethasone, used to reduce inflammation 
simvastatin or atorvastatin, used to reduce cholesterol levels 
calcium channel blockers (such as amlodipine), used to treat high blood pressure 
theophylline, used to treat asthma 
warfarin or phenprocoumon, used as a blood thinning agents 
phenytoin, used to treat convulsions 
ciclosporin, used to suppress your immune system during organ transplants 
benzodiazepines (such as temazepam), used to relieve anxiety 
Regarding vaccinations, please see the section on warnings above. 
Due to lack of clinical experience, Tyenne is not recommended for use with other biological 
medicines for the treatment of RA, sJIA, pJIA or GCA. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Tyenne is not to be used in pregnancy unless clearly necessary. Talk to your doctor if you are 
pregnant, may be pregnant, or intend to become pregnant. 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during and up to 3 months after 
treatment. 
Stop breast-feeding if you are to be given Tyenne, and talk to your doctor. Leave a gap of at least 
3 months after your last treatment before you start breast-feeding. It is not known whether Tyenne 
passes into breast milk. 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine can cause dizziness. If you feel dizzy, do not drive or use machines. 
Tyenne contains sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.9 mL dose, i.e. 
essentially 'sodium-free'. 
3. 
How to use Tyenne 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. You should 
check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
The treatment will be prescribed and started by healthcare professionals experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of RA, sJIA, pJIA or GCA. 
Adults with RA or GCA 
The recommended dose for RA (rheumatoid arthritis) and GCA (giant cell arteritis) for  adults is 
162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled syringe) given once a week. 
• 
• 
Children and adolescents with sJIA (aged 1 year and over)  
The usual dose of Tyenne depends on the patient’s weight. 
• 
If the patient weighs less than 30 kg: the dose is 162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled syringe) 
once every 2 weeks 
If the patient weighs 30 kg or more: the dose is 162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled syringe) 
once every week 
Children and adolescents with pJIA (aged 2 and over)  
The usual dose of Tyenne depends on the patient’s weight. 
• 
If the patient weighs less than 30 kg: the dose is 162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled syringe), 
once every 3 weeks 
If the patient weighs 30 kg or more: the dose is 162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled syringe), 
once every 2 weeks. 
Tyenne is given by injection under the skin (subcutaneously). At the start, your doctor or nurse 
may inject Tyenne. However, your doctor may decide that you may inject Tyenne yourself. In this 
case you will get training on how to inject Tyenne yourself. Parents and carers will get training on 
how to inject Tyenne for patients who cannot inject themselves, such as children. 
Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about giving yourself or a child patient you look after 
an injection. You will find detailed “Instructions for administration” at the end of this leaflet. 
If you use more Tyenne than you should 
Because Tyenne is given in one pre-filled syringe, it is unlikely that you will receive too much. 
However, if you are worried, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If an adult with RA or GCA or a child or adolescent with sJIA misses or forgets a dose, it is 
very important to use Tyenne exactly as prescribed by your doctor. Keep track of your next dose. 
• 
If you miss your weekly dose within 7 days, take your dose on the next scheduled day. 
• 
If you miss your once every 2 weeks dose within 7 days, inject a dose as soon as you 
remember and take your next dose at your regular scheduled time. 
If you miss your dose by more than 7 days, or you are not sure when to inject Tyenne, call 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
• 
If a child or adolescent with pJIA misses or forgets a dose 
It is very important to use Tyenne exactly as prescribed by the doctor. Keep track of the next 
dose. 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
If a dose is missed within 7 days, inject a dose as soon as you remember and give the next 
dose at the regular scheduled time. 
If a dose is missed by more than 7 days, or you are not sure when to inject Tyenne, call the 
doctor or pharmacist. 
If you stop using Tyenne 
You should not stop using Tyenne without discussing with your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Tyenne can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Side effects 
could occur 3 months or more after your last dose of Tyenne. 
Possible serious side effects: tell a doctor straight away.  
These are common: they may affect up to 1 in 10 people  
Allergic reactions during or after injection: 
• 
• 
If you notice any of these, tell your doctor immediately. 
difficulty with breathing, chest tightness or light-headedness 
rash, itching, hives, swelling of the lips, tongue or face  
Signs of serious infections: 
• 
fever and chills 
• 
mouth or skin blisters 
• 
stomach ache 
Signs and symptoms of liver toxicity 
These may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people 
• 
• 
• 
tiredness, 
abdominal pain, 
jaundice (yellow discolouration of skin or eyes) 
If you notice any of these, tell your doctor as soon as possible. 
Very common side effects: 
These may affect 1 in 10 people or more 
• 
upper respiratory tract infections with typical symptoms such as cough, blocked nose, runny 
nose, sore throat and headache, 
high blood fat (cholesterol) levels 
injection site reactions. 
• 
• 
Common side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
lung infection (pneumonia) 
shingles (herpes zoster) 
cold sores (oral herpes simplex), blisters 
skin infection (cellulitis) sometimes with fever and chills 
rash and itching, hives 
allergic (hypersensitivity) reactions 
eye infection (conjunctivitis) 
headache, dizziness, high blood pressure 
mouth ulceration, stomach pain 
fluid retention (oedema) in the lower legs, weight increase 
cough, shortness of breath 
low white blood cell counts shown by blood tests (neutropenia, leucopenia) 
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
abnormal liver function tests (increased transaminases) 
increased bilirubin shown by blood tests 
low fibrinogen levels in the blood (a protein involved in blood clotting). 
Uncommon side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
diverticulitis (fever, nausea, diarrhoea, constipation, stomach pain) 
red swollen areas in the mouth 
high blood fat (triglycerides) 
stomach ulcer 
kidney stones 
underactive thyroid. 
Rare side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people 
• 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (skin rash, which may lead to severe blistering and peeling of the 
skin) 
fatal allergic reactions (anaphylaxis [fatal]) 
inflammation of the liver (hepatitis), jaundice 
• 
• 
Very rare side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people 
• 
• 
low counts for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelets in blood tests. 
liver failure 
Additional side effects in children and adolescents with sJIA or pJIA 
Side effects in children and adolescents with sJIA or pJIA are generally similar to those in adults. 
Some side effects are seen more often in children and adolescents: inflamed nose and throat, 
headache, feeling sick (nausea) and lower white blood cell counts. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V .  By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on 
the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tyenne 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the pre-filled syringe label and 
carton (EXP). The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C - 8 °C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
A single pre-filled syringe may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25 °C for a single 
period of up to 14 days. The pre-filled syringe must be protected from light, and discarded if not 
used within the 14 day period. 
Do not use if the medicine is cloudy or contains particles, is any colour besides colourless to pale 
yellow, or any part of the pre-filled syringe appears to be damaged. 
The syringe should not be shaken.  
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After removing the cap the injection must be started right away to prevent the medicine from 
drying out and blocking the needle. If the pre-filled syringe is not used right away after cap 
removal, you must dispose of it in a puncture resistant container and use a new pre-filled syringe. 
If following insertion of the needle, you cannot depress the plunger, you must dispose of the pre-
filled syringe in a puncture resistant container and use a new pre-filled syringe. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Tyenne contains 
The active substance is tocilizumab 
•  Each pre-filled syringe contains 162 mg tocilizumab in 0.9 mL. 
The other ingredients are L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 80, 
hydrochloric acid (E507) and/or sodium hydroxide (E524), water for injections.  
What Tyenne looks like and contents of the pack 
Tyenne is a solution for injection. The solution is clear and colourless to pale yellow. 
Tyenne is supplied as a 0.9 mL pre-filled syringe containing 162 mg tocilizumab solution for 
injection. 
Each pack contains 1, 4 or 12 pre-filled syringes. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Fresenius Kabi Austria GmbH 
Hafnerstrasse 36 
8055 Graz 
Austria 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/.  
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
Instructions for use 
Read this Instruction for Use before using your Tyenne pre-filled syringe and each time you get a 
prescription refill. 
Important information 
• 
Read the Patient Information that comes with your Tyenne pre-filled syringe for important 
information you need to know before using it. 
Before you use Tyenne pre-filled syringe for the first time, make sure your doctor shows you or 
your caregiver the right way to use it. Note that the syringe comes in an opened plastic tray. 
People who are blind or have vision problems should not use the Tyenne pre-filled syringe 
without help from a person trained to use the Tyenne pre-filled syringe.   
Talk to your doctor if you have any questions or concerns.  
• 
• 
• 
Storing Tyenne pre-filled syringes 
• 
• 
• 
Store the pre-filled syringe in its original carton in a refrigerator between 2 °C and 8 °C.  
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the original carton to protect from light. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe out of the reach and sight of children.  
Do not freeze Tyenne.   
Do not use Tyenne pre-filled syringe that has been frozen or left in direct sunlight because it could 
lead to illness. 
Using Tyenne pre-filled syringe 
• 
• 
Always inject Tyenne using the technique your doctor taught you. 
Tyenne pre-filled syringe is for single-dose (one-time) use only.  
Do not share your Tyenne pre-filled syringe with another person. You may give another person an 
infection or get an infection from them. 
• 
Tyenne pre-filled syringe has a clear needle guard that covers the needle after the injection is 
complete. 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the carton is open or damaged. 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it has been dropped on a hard surface.  
The pre-filled syringe may be broken even if you cannot see the break. 
Do not remove the needle cap from the pre-filled syringe until you are ready to inject. 
Do not try to reuse the pre-filled syringe because it could lead to an infection. 
Travelling with Tyenne pre-filled syringe 
• 
• 
If needed, for example when traveling, Tyenne pre-filled syringe can be stored at room 
temperature between 20 °C and 25 °C for up to 14 days. 
Throw away (dispose of) Tyenne that has been kept at room temperature between 20 °C and 
25°C and not been used within 14 days. 
•  When travelling on an airplane, always check with your airline and your doctor about bringing 
injectable medicine with you. Always carry Tyenne in your carry-on luggage because the 
aircraft luggage area can be very cold and Tyenne could freeze. 
147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Tyenne pre-filled syringe 
Before use 
Clear Needle Guard 
Plunger 
Front view 
Back view 
After use 
Side view 
Needle Cap 
Liquid-filled syringe 
Barrel (inside) 
Finger flange 
Lot: 
EXP: 
Expiration date 
Clear Needle Guard 
Plunger 
Needle covered 
Needle Guard Spring 
extended 
Figure A 
Do not try to activate the clear needle guard before injecting. 
STEP 1: Prepare for your injection  
1.1  Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or counter top, in a well-lit 
area. 
1.2  Supplies needed (Figure B): 
• 
• 
• 
1 alcohol swab to clean the site before injection  
1 sterile cotton ball or gauze to use after the injection 
1 sharps disposal container for safe disposal of needle cap and used  
syringe (see Step 7 “Throw away your syringe”). 
1.3  Take the Tyenne carton out of the refrigerator  
and open it (Figure C). 
1.4  Remove Tyenne plastic tray out of the carton: 
 Put the plastic tray with the pre-filled syringe on a clean flat surface. 
1.5  Let the pre-filled syringe in its plastic tray sit at room temperature for at 
least 30 minutes before use to allow the medicine to reach room 
temperature (Figure D). Injecting cold medicine can cause your injection 
to feel uncomfortable and make it difficult to push the plunger in. 
Do not speed up the warming process in any way, such as in a microwave, or 
placing the syringe in hot water, or direct sunlight. 
Do not remove the needle cap while allowing your Tyenne pre-filled syringe 
to reach room temperature. 
30 
min 
Figure D 
148 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.6  Prepare and check your records of previous injection sites. This will help 
you choose the appropriate injection site for this injection (see Step 8 
“Record your injection”). 
STEP 2: Wash your hands 
2.1  Wash your hands well with soap and water and dry them with a clean 
towel (Figure E). 
STEP 3: Check the syringe 
Remove Tyenne pre-filled syringe from the plastic tray 
• 
• 
Place two fingers on either side, in the middle of the clear needle 
guard.  
Pull the pre-filled syringe straight up and out of the tray (Figure 
F). 
Do not pick up the pre-filled syringe by the plunger or the needle cap. 
Doing so could damage the pre-filled syringe or activate the clear needle 
guard. 
3.1  Check the pre-filled syringe to make sure that: 
• 
The pre-filled syringe, the clear needle guard, and the needle cap 
are not cracked or damaged (Figure G). 
• 
The needle cap is securely attached (Figure H). 
• 
The needle guard spring is not extended (Figure I) 
Do not use the syringe if it shows any sign of damage. If damaged, call your doctor or pharmacist right away 
and throw away the syringe in your sharps disposal container (see Step 7 “Throw away your syringe”).  
3.2  Check the liquid through the clear window of the syringe to make sure 
that: 
149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The liquid is clear and colorless to pale yellow, and free of particles 
and flakes (Figure J). 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the liquid is cloudy, discolored, contains 
particles or flakes, or shows any sign of damage. If the liquid is cloudy, 
discolored, contains particles or flakes, call your doctor or pharmacist right 
away and throw away the syringe in your sharps disposal container (see Step 7 
“Throw away your syringe”). 
3.3  Check the label on the pre-filled syringe to make sure that: 
• 
• 
The name on the pre-filled syringe says Tyenne (Figure K). 
The expiration date (EXP:) on the pre-filled syringe has not passed 
(Figure K). 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
Tyenne 
Lot:  
EXP:  
• 
• 
The name on the pre-filled syringe is not Tyenne. 
The expiration date on the pre-filled syringe has passed. 
EXP: MMM/YYYY 
If the label does not have Tyenne on it or the expiration date has passed contact 
your doctor or pharmacist right away and throw away the pre-filled syringe in 
your sharps disposal container (see Step 7 “Throw away your syringe”). 
Figure K 
STEP 4: Choose the injection site 
4.1 
Choose an injection site (Figure L):   
• 
• 
• 
The front of the thighs, or 
Stomach area (lower abdomen), except for 5 cm around the navel 
(belly button). 
If you are injecting someone else, you may use the back of the arm  
(Figure M). 
Do not attempt to use the upper arm area by yourself. Only inject into the sites 
shown. 
4.2  Choose a different injection site (at least 3 cm from the last area you 
injected) for each new injection to reduce redness, irritation or other skin 
problems. 
Do not inject into an area that is sore (tender), bruised, red, hard, scarred or 
where you have stretch marks, moles or tattoos. 
If you have psoriasis, do not inject into any lesions or red, thick, raised or 
scaly patches. 
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP 5: Clean the injection site 
5.1  Wipe the skin of your injection site with an alcohol swab in a circular 
motion to clean it (Figure N). Let the skin dry before injecting. 
Do not blow or touch the injection site after cleaning. 
STEP 6: Give your injection 
6.1  Remove the needle cap 
• 
• 
Hold the pre-filled syringe by the clear needle guard in one hand  
(Figure O). 
Use your other hand to remove the needle cap by pulling the cap 
straight off (Figure O). 
Do not hold the plunger while you remove the needle cap. 
If you cannot remove the needle cap, you should ask a caregiver for help or 
contact your doctor. 
• 
Throw away the needle cap in your sharps container.  
You may see drops of liquid at the needle tip. This is normal and will not 
affect your dose. 
Do not touch the needle or let it touch any surface after removing the  
needle cap, because this might cause an accidental needle stick.  
6.2  Pinch the skin 
•  With your free hand, gently pinch around the area where you plan to 
inject (without squeezing or touching the cleaned area) and hold it 
firmly to avoid injecting into muscle (Figure P). Injection into muscle 
could cause the injection to feel uncomfortable. 
6.3 
Insert the needle  
Hold the pre-filled syringe like a pencil.  
•  With a quick, short motion, insert the needle all the way into the 
pinched skin at an angle between 45° to 90° (Figure Q). Give the 
injection at the angle your doctor instructed you to use. 
It is important to use the correct angle to make sure the medicine is  
delivered under the skin (into fatty tissue), or the injection could be painful, 
and the medicine may not work. 
151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4 
Inject 
• 
Use your thumb to gently push the plunger all the way down 
(Figure R). 
•  Keep pressing down on the plunger to deliver the full dose  
until you cannot press any more (Figure S). 
Do not pull the needle out of the skin when the plunger is pushed all the 
way down. 
6.5  Finish Injection 
• 
• 
Hold the syringe firmly without moving it, at the same angle as 
inserted. 
Slowly release your thumb off the plunger. The plunger will move 
up.  
The safety system will remove the needle from the skin and cover 
the needle (Figure T). 
• 
Release the pinched skin 
Important: Call your doctor right away if: 
• 
The clear needle guard does not cover the needle after injecting. 
Injecting an incorrect amount of medicine could affect your treatment. 
Do not reuse a syringe even if all of the medicine was not injected. 
Do not try to recap the needle as it could lead to needle stick injury. 
6.6  After Injection 
If there is blood or liquid on the injection site, gently press a cotton ball or 
gauze on the skin (Figure U). You may use an adhesive bandage if needed. 
Do not rub the injection site. 
152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP 7: Throw away used pre-filled syringe 
7.1  Put your used syringe in a sharps disposal container right away after 
use (Figure V).  
If you do not have a sharps disposal container, you may use a household 
container that is: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Made of a heavy-duty plastic; 
Can be closed with a tight-fitting, puncture-resistant lid; that will keep 
sharps from coming out, 
Upright and stable during use, 
Leak-resistant and 
Properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container. 
When your sharps disposal container is almost full, you will need to  
follow your local guidelines to dispose of your sharps disposal container.  
Do not throw away (dispose of) used syringes in your household trash. 
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household 
trash unless your local guidelines permit this.  
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container. 
Keep Tyenne pre-filled syringes and disposal container out of the reach 
and sight of children. 
STEP 8: Record your injection 
8.1  To help you remember when and where to give your next 
injection, write the date, time, and specific part of your body where you 
injected yourself. (Figure W).  
It may also be helpful to write any questions or concerns about the 
injection, so you can ask your doctor. 
If you have questions or concerns about your Tyenne pre-filled 
syringe, please contact your doctor familiar with Tyenne. 
153 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the user 
Tyenne 162 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
tocilizumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 
4 for how to report side effects.  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it onto others. It may harm 
them even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
In addition to this leaflet, you will be given a Patient Alert Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Tyenne. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Tyenne is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Tyenne 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Tyenne 
Possible side effects 
How to store Tyenne 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Tyenne is and what it is used for 
Tyenne contains the active substance tocilizumab, which is a protein made from specific immune 
cells (monoclonal antibody), that blocks the action of a specific protein (cytokine) called 
interleukin-6. This protein is involved in inflammatory processes of the body, and blocking it can 
reduce the inflammation in your body. Tyenne is used to treat: 
• 
• 
• 
adults with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease, 
if previous therapies did not work well enough. 
adults with severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis (RA), who have not had 
previous treatment with methotrexate. 
Tyenne helps to reduce RA symptoms such as pain and swelling in your joints, and can also 
improve your performance of daily tasks. Tyenne has been shown to slow the damage to the 
cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and to improve your ability to do 
normal daily activities. 
Tyenne is usually given in combination with another medicine for RA called methotrexate. 
However, Tyenne can be given alone if your doctor determines that methotrexate is 
inappropriate. 
adults with a disease of the arteries called giant cell arteritis (GCA), caused by 
inflammation of the body’s largest arteries, especially those that supply blood to the head 
and neck. Symptoms include headache, fatigue (tiredness) and jaw pain. Effects can include 
strokes and blindness. 
154 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tyenne can reduce pain and swelling in the arteries and veins in your head, neck and arms. 
GCA is often treated with medicines called steroids. They are usually effective, but can have 
side effects if used at high doses for a long time. Reducing the steroid dose can also lead to a 
flare-up of the GCA. Adding Tyenne to the treatment means that steroids can be used for a 
shorter time, while still controlling the disease. 
children and adolescents, aged 12 years and over, with active systemic juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (sJIA), an inflammatory disease that causes pain and swelling in one or 
more joints as well as fever and rash. 
Tyenne is used to improve the symptoms of sJIA. It can be given in combination with 
methotrexate or alone. 
children and adolescents, aged 12 years and over, with active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (pJIA). This is an inflammatory disease that causes pain and swelling in 
one or more joints. 
Tyenne is used to improve the symptoms of pJIA. It can be given in combination with 
methotrexate or alone. 
• 
• 
2. 
What you need to know before you use Tyenne 
Do not use Tyenne 
• 
if you or a child patient you look after are allergic to tocilizumab or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you or a child patient you look after have an active, severe infection. 
• 
If either of these applies to you, tell a doctor. Do not use Tyenne. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Tyenne. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, wheezing, severe dizziness or 
lightheadedness, swelling of the lips, tongue, face or skin itching, hives or rash during or 
after the injection, then tell your doctor immediately. 
Do not take the next dose until you have informed your doctor AND your doctor has told 
you to take the next dose if you have experienced any allergic reaction symptoms after 
Tyenne administration. 
If you have any kind of infection, short- or long-term, or if you often get infections. Tell 
your doctor immediately if you feel unwell. Tyenne can reduce your body’s ability to 
respond to infections and may make an existing infection worse or increase the chance of 
getting a new infection. 
If you have had tuberculosis, tell your doctor. Your doctor will check for signs and 
symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Tyenne. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent 
cough, weight loss, listlessness, mild fever) or any other infection appear during or after 
therapy tell your doctor immediately. 
If you have had intestinal ulcers or diverticulitis, tell your doctor. Symptoms would 
include abdominal pain and unexplained changes in bowel habits with a fever. 
155 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you have liver disease, tell your doctor. Before you use Tyenne, your doctor may do a 
blood test to measure your liver function. 
If any patient has recently been vaccinated, or is planning a vaccination, tell your doctor. 
All patients should be up-to-date with all their vaccinations before they start treatment with 
Tyenne. Certain types of vaccines should not be given while receiving Tyenne. 
If you have cancer, tell your doctor. Your doctor will have to decide if you can still be given 
Tyenne. 
If you have risk factors for heart disease such as raised blood pressure and raised 
cholesterol levels, tell your doctor. These factors need to be monitored while receiving 
Tyenne. 
If you have moderate to severe kidney function problems, your doctor will monitor you. 
If you have persistent headaches. 
Your doctor will perform a blood test before you receive Tyenne, to determine if you have a low 
white blood cell count, low platelet count or high liver enzymes. 
Children and adolescents 
Tyenne pre-filled pen is not recommended for use in children under 12 years of age. 
Tyenne must not be given to children with sJIA (systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis) weighing 
less than 10 kg. 
If a child has a history of macrophage activation syndrome (activation and uncontrolled 
proliferation of specific blood cells), tell your doctor. Your doctor will have to decide if they can 
still be given Tyenne. 
Other medicines and Tyenne 
Tell your doctor if you are taking any other medicines, or have recently taken any. Tyenne can 
affect the way some medicines work, and the dose of these may require adjustment. If you are 
using medicines containing any of the following active substances, tell your doctor: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
methylprednisolone, dexamethasone, used to reduce inflammation 
simvastatin or atorvastatin, used to reduce cholesterol levels 
calcium channel blockers (such as amlodipine), used to treat high blood pressure 
theophylline, used to treat asthma 
warfarin or phenprocoumon, used as a blood thinning agents 
phenytoin, used to treat convulsions 
ciclosporin, used to suppress your immune system during organ transplants 
benzodiazepines (such as temazepam), used to relieve anxiety 
Regarding vaccinations, please see the section on warnings above. 
Due to lack of clinical experience, Tyenne is not recommended for use with other biological 
medicines for the treatment of RA, sJIA, pJIA or GCA. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Tyenne is not to be used in pregnancy unless clearly necessary. Talk to your doctor if you are 
pregnant, may be pregnant, or intend to become pregnant. 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during and up to 3 months after 
treatment. 
156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stop breast-feeding if you are to be given Tyenne, and talk to your doctor. Leave a gap of at least 
3 months after your last treatment before you start breast-feeding. It is not known whether Tyenne 
passes into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine can cause dizziness. If you feel dizzy, do not drive or use machines. 
Tyenne contains sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.9 mL dose, i.e. 
essentially 'sodium-free'. 
3. 
How to use Tyenne 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. You should 
check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
The treatment will be prescribed and started by healthcare professionals experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of RA, sJIA, pJIA or GCA. 
Adults with RA or GCA 
The recommended dose for RA (rheumatoid arthritis) or GCA (giant cell arteritis) for adults is 
162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled pen) given once a week. 
Adolescents with sJIA (aged 12 years and over) 
The usual dose of Tyenne depends on the patient’s weight. 
• 
• 
If the patient weighs less than 30 kg: the dose is 162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled pen) 
once every 2 weeks 
If the patient weighs 30 kg or more: the dose is 162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled pen) 
once every week 
Adolescents with pJIA (aged 12 years and over) 
The usual dose of Tyenne depends on the patient’s weight. 
• 
• 
If the patient weighs less than 30 kg: the dose is 162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled pen), 
once every 3 weeks 
If the patient weighs 30 kg or more: the dose is 162 mg (the content of 1 pre-filled pen), 
once every 2 weeks. 
Tyenne is given by injection under the skin (subcutaneously). At the start, your doctor or nurse 
may inject Tyenne. However, your doctor may decide that you may inject Tyenne yourself. In this 
case you will get training on how to inject Tyenne yourself. Parents and carers will get training on 
how to inject Tyenne for patients who cannot inject themselves. 
Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about giving yourself or an adolescent patient you 
look after an injection. You will find detailed “Instructions for administration” at the end of this 
leaflet. 
If you use more Tyenne than you should 
Because Tyenne is given in one pre-filled pen, it is unlikely that you will receive too much. 
However, if you are worried, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If an adult with RA or GCA or an adolescent with sJIA misses or forgets a dose 
It is very important to use Tyenne exactly as prescribed by your doctor. Keep track of your next 
dose. 
• 
• 
If you miss your weekly dose within 7 days, take your dose on the next scheduled day. 
If you miss your once every other week dose within 7 days, inject a dose as soon as you 
remember and take your next dose at your regular scheduled time. 
157 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you miss your weekly or once every other week dose by more than 7 days, or you are not 
sure when to inject Tyenne, call your doctor or pharmacist. 
If an adolescent with pJIA misses or forgets a dose 
It is very important to use Tyenne exactly as prescribed by the doctor. Keep track of the next dose. 
• 
If a dose is missed within 7 days, inject a dose as soon as you remember and give the next 
dose at the regular scheduled time. 
If a dose is missed by more than 7 days, or you are not sure when to inject Tyenne, call the 
doctor or pharmacist. 
• 
If you stop using Tyenne 
You should not stop using Tyenne without discussing with your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Tyenne can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Side effects 
could occur 3 months or more after your last dose of Tyenne. 
Possible serious side effects: tell a doctor straight away.  
These are common: they may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Allergic reactions during or after injection: 
• 
• 
If you notice any of these, tell your doctor immediately. 
difficulty with breathing, chest tightness or light-headedness 
rash, itching, hives, swelling of the lips, tongue or face  
Signs of serious infections: 
• 
fever and chills 
• 
mouth or skin blisters 
• 
stomach ache 
Signs and symptoms of liver toxicity 
These may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people 
• 
• 
• 
tiredness, 
abdominal pain, 
jaundice (yellow discoloration of skin or eyes) 
If you notice any of these, tell your doctor as soon as possible. 
Very common side effects: 
These may affect 1 in 10 people or more 
• 
upper respiratory tract infections with typical symptoms such as cough, blocked nose, runny 
nose, sore throat and headache, 
high blood fat (cholesterol) levels 
injection site reactions. 
• 
• 
Common side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
lung infection (pneumonia) 
shingles (herpes zoster) 
cold sores (oral herpes simplex), blisters 
skin infection (cellulitis) sometimes with fever and chills 
rash and itching, hives 
allergic (hypersensitivity) reactions 
158 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
eye infection (conjunctivitis) 
headache, dizziness, high blood pressure 
mouth ulceration, stomach pain 
fluid retention (oedema) in the lower legs, weight increase 
cough, shortness of breath 
low white blood cell counts shown by blood tests (neutropenia, leucopenia) 
abnormal liver function tests (increased transaminases) 
increased bilirubin shown by blood tests 
low fibrinogen levels in the blood (a protein involved in blood clotting). 
Uncommon side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
diverticulitis (fever, nausea, diarrhoea, constipation, stomach pain) 
red swollen areas in the mouth 
high blood fat (triglycerides) 
stomach ulcer 
kidney stones 
underactive thyroid. 
Rare side effects: 
These may affect up to1 in 1 000 people 
• 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (skin rash, which may lead to severe blistering and peeling of the 
skin) 
fatal allergic reactions (anaphylaxis [fatal]) 
inflammation of the liver (hepatitis), jaundice 
• 
• 
Very rare side effects: 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people 
• 
• 
low counts for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelets in blood tests. 
liver failure 
Additional side effects in children and adolescents with sJIA or pJIA 
Side effects in children and adolescents with sJIA or pJIA are generally similar to those in adults. 
Some side effects are seen more often in children and adolescents: inflamed nose and throat, 
headache, feeling sick (nausea) and lower white blood cell counts. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on 
the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tyenne 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the pre-filled pen label and carton 
(EXP). The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C - 8 °C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
A single or pre-filled pen may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25 °C for a single 
period of up to 14 days. The pre-filled pen must be protected from light, and discarded if not used 
within the 14 day period. 
159 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use if the medicine is cloudy or contains particles, is any colour besides colourless to pale 
yellow, or any part of the pre-filled pen appears to be damaged. 
The pen should not be shaken. After removing the cap the injection must be started right away to 
prevent the medicine from drying out and blocking the needle. If the pre-filled pen is not used right 
away after cap removal, you must dispose of it in a puncture resistant container and use a new pre-
filled pen. 
If following pressing the activation button the orange plunger rod does not move, you must dispose 
of the pre-filled pen in a puncture resistant container. Do not try to re-use the pre-filled pen. Do not 
repeat the injection with another pre-filled pen. Call your healthcare provider for help. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Tyenne contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is tocilizumab. 
Each pre-filled pen contains 162 mg tocilizumab in 0.9 mL. 
The other ingredients are L-arginine, L-histidine, L-lactic acid, sodium chloride, polysorbate 
80, hydrochloric acid (E507) and/or sodium hydroxide (E524), water for injections. 
What Tyenne looks like and contents of the pack 
Tyenne is a solution for injection. The solution is clear and colourless to pale yellow. 
Tyenne is supplied as a 0.9 mL pre-filled pen containing 162 mg tocilizumab solution for injection. 
Each pack contains 1 or 4 pre-filled pens with multipacks containing 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled 
pens. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Fresenius Kabi Austria GmbH 
Hafnerstrasse 36 
8055 Graz 
Austria 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
160 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
7. 
 Instruction for use 
Read these instructions carefully before using your Tyenne pre-filled pen. 
Read and follow the Instructions for Use that come with your Tyenne pre-filled pen before you start 
using it and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This information does not 
replace talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment. 
If you have any questions about using your Tyenne pre-filled pen, please call your doctor. 
Important information 
• 
Read the patient information that comes with your pre-filled pen for important information 
you need to know before using it. 
Before you use the pre-filled pen for the first time, make sure your doctor shows you the 
right way to use it. 
Do not try to take apart the Tyenne pre-filled pen at any time. 
Always inject Tyenne the way your doctor taught you to. 
Using the Tyenne pre-filled pen 
• 
The pre-filled pen is for self-injection or administration with the help of a caregiver. 
The pre-filled pen is for use at home. 
• 
•  When injecting Tyenne, children may self-inject if both the doctor and caregiver find it 
appropriate. 
Do not reuse the pre-filled pen. The pre-filled pen is for single-dose (1-time) use only. 
Do not share your pre-filled pen with another person. You may give another person an 
infection or get an infection from them. 
Do not remove the pre-filled pen clear cap until you are ready to inject. 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if it shows any signs of damage or if it has been dropped. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Storing Tyenne pre-filled pens 
• 
Store Tyenne in the refrigerator between 2 °C to 8 °C. 
Store unused pre-filled pens in the original carton to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. If Tyenne freezes, throw it away in a sharp disposal container. 
Keep Tyenne out of exposure to heat or direct sunlight.  
Keep the pre-filled pen out of reach and sight of children. 
Tyenne may be stored at room temperature between 20 °C to 25 °C in the carton it comes in for 
up to 14 days.  
Throw away (dispose of) Tyenne in a sharp disposal or puncture-resistant container if it has been 
out of the refrigerator more than 14 days. Once stored at room temperature, do not place back in 
the refrigerator. 
Travelling with Tyenne pre-filled pen 
•  When travelling on an airplane, always check with your airline and your doctor about bringing 
injectable medicine with you. Always carry Tyenne in your carry-on luggage because the 
aircraft luggage area can be very cold and Tyenne could freeze. 
161 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Tyenne pre-filled pen 
Before Use 
After Use 
STEP 1: Prepare for your injection for your injection 
1.1  Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or counter top, in a well-lit area. 
1.2  Gather the following supplies (not included) (see Figure A): 
• 
• 
• 
A sterile cotton ball or gauze 
An alcohol swab 
A sharps disposal container (see Step 8, “Throw away your pre-filled pen”). 
Figure A 
1.3  Remove the carton containing the pre-filled pen from the refrigerator.  
Do not keep your pre-filled pen out of the refrigerator for more than 14 days 
without use. 
1.4  Check the expiration date on the carton to make sure the date has not 
passed (see Figure B). 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if the expiration date has passed. 
1.5  Remove the sealed tray from the carton. Check the sealed tray for any signs 
of damage, and make sure the expiration date on the tray has not passed. 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if the expiration date has passed, because it may not 
be safe. 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if the tray looks damaged or like it has been 
opened. 
162 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.6  Let the sealed tray sit on the prepared surface for 45 minutes before use to 
allow the medicine in the pre-filled pen to reach room temperature (see Figure 
C). 
Note: Not doing so could cause your injection to feel uncomfortable and it could 
take longer to inject.  
Do not warm in any other way, such as in a microwave, hot water, or direct 
sunlight. 
Keep Tyenne out of the reach of children. 
Figure C 
45 
min 
EXP: XXXX.XX 
1.7  Peel the seal off of the tray (see Figure D) and invert the tray to remove the 
single-use pre-filled pen (see Figure E). 
Figure D 
Do not remove the clear cap of the pre-filled pen until you are ready to inject to 
avoid injury.  
Figure E 
STEP 2: Check your pre-filled pen 
2.1  Check the pre-filled pen to make sure it is not cracked or damaged (see 
Figure F). 
Figure F 
Do not use if the pre-filled pen shows signs of damage or if it has been dropped.  
2.2 
• 
• 
Check the pre-filled pen label to make sure that:  
The name on the pre-filled pen says Tyenne 
Figure G 
The expiration date (EXP) on the pre-filled pen has not passed (see Figure 
G). 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if the name on the label is not Tyenne or the 
expiration date on the label has passed. 
Look at the medicine in the viewing window. Make sure it is clear and 
2.3 
colorless to pale yellow and does not contain flakes or particles (see Figure H). 
Note: Air bubbles in the medicine are normal. 
Do not inject if the liquid is cloudy, discolored, or has lumps or particles in it 
because it may not be safe to use. 
163 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure I 
Figure J 
STEP 3: Wash your hands 
3.1  Wash your hands well with soap and water, then dry them with a clean 
towel (see Figure I). 
STEP 4: Choose the injection site 
4.1 
If you are giving yourself the injection, you can use: 
• 
• 
• 
The front of your upper thigh 
The abdomen, except within 5 cm around the belly button (navel) 
If a caregiver is giving the injection, they can use the outer area of the 
upper arm (see Figure J). 
Note: Choose a different site for each injection to reduce redness, irritation or 
other skin problems. 
Do not inject into skin that is sore (tender), bruised, red, hard, scaly, or has 
lesions, moles, scars, or stretch marks or tattoos. 
Do not use the pre-filled pen through clothing. 
STEP 5: Clean the injection site 
5.1  Wipe the skin where you want to inject with an alcohol swab to clean it 
(see Figure K). Let the skin dry. 
Figure K 
Do not blow on or touch the site after cleaning. 
STEP 6: Give your injection 
6.1  When you are ready to inject, hold the pre-filled pen in one hand with the 
clear cap on top, pointing straight up. 
Using your other hand, firmly pull the clear cap straight off without twisting (see 
Figure L). 
Figure L 
Note: Use the pre-filled pen right away after removing the cap to avoid 
contamination. 
Do not try to recap the needle at any time, even at the end of the injection. 
Do not touch the needle cover (the orange part located at the tip of the pre-filled 
pen) because this might cause an accidental needle stick. 
6.2  Throw away the clear cap. 
6.3  Rotate the pre-filled pen so that the orange needle cover points 
downwards. 
6.4  Position your hand on the pre-filled pen so that you can see the window. 
6.5  Place the pre-filled pen against your skin at a 90-degree (straight) angle (see 
Figure M). 
Figure M 
164 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: To make sure you inject under the skin (into fatty tissue), do not hold the 
pre-filled pen at an angle. 
Note: You do not need to pinch your skin. 
To make sure you inject the full dose, read all of the steps from 6.6 to 6.9 before you start: 
6.6 
In a single motion, push the pre-filled pen firmly against your skin until 
you hear a first click. The orange plunger rod will move through the window 
during the injection (this means the injection has started) (see Figure N). 
Figure N 
6.7  WAIT and hold the pre-filled pen in place until you hear a second click. 
This may take up to 10 seconds. Continue to HOLD (see Figure O). 
Figure O 
6.8  Wait and slowly count to 5 after you hear the second click. Continue to 
HOLD the pre-filled pen in place to make sure you inject a full dose (see Figure 
P).  
Do not lift the pre-filled pen until you are sure 5 seconds has passed, and the 
injection is complete. 
Figure P 
WAIT 
sec 
6.9  While holding the pre-filled pen in place, check the window to make sure 
the orange plunger rod has fully appeared in the viewing window, and has 
stopped moving (see Figure Q). 
Figure Q 
Note: If the orange plunger rod did not come all the way down or you believe you 
did not get a full injection, call your doctor. Do not try to repeat the injection with 
a new pre-filled pen. 
STEP 7: Remove and check the pre-filled pen 
7.1  When the injection is complete, lift the pre-filled pen straight away from 
your skin (see Figure R). 
Figure R 
Note: The needle cover will slide down and cover the needle. 
Do not recap the pre-filled pen. 
7.2  Check the window to make sure the orange plunger rod came all the way 
down (see Figure S). 
Figure S 
165 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: If the orange plunger rod did not come all the way down or you believe you 
did not get a full injection, call your doctor. Do not try to repeat the injection with 
a new pre-filled pen. 
If you see blood on the injection site, press gauze or a cotton ball against 
7.3 
the skin until the bleeding stops (see Figure T). 
Figure T 
Do not rub the injection site. 
STEP 8: Throw away your pre-filled pen 
8.1  Put your used pre-filled pen in a sharps disposal container right away after use (see Figure U).  
Do not put the clear cap back on the pre-filled pen. 
Do not throw away (dispose of) your pre-filled pen in your household trash. 
Do not reuse the pre-filled pen. 
If you do not have a sharps disposal container, you can use a  
household container that is: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
made of a heavy-duty plastic, 
can be closed with a tight-fitting, puncture-resistant lid, without sharps being able to come out, 
upright and stable during use, 
leak-resistant, and 
properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container. 
When your sharps disposal container is almost full, you will need to follow your local guidelines for the 
right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container.  
Do not throw away (dispose of) your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your 
local guidelines permit this. 
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container. 
Figure U 
Always keep the sharps disposal container out of reach of children. 
STEP 9: Record your injection 
9.1    Record your injection date and site (see Figure V). 
Figure V 
Note: This is to help you remember when and where to do your next injection. 
166 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
