ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Tygacil 50 mg powder for solution for infusion
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each 5 ml Tygacil vial contains 50 mg of tigecycline. After reconstitution, 1 ml contains 10 mg of 
tigecycline.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Powder for solution for infusion (powder for infusion).
Orange cake or powder.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Tygacil is indicated in adults and in children from the age of eight years for the treatment of the 
following infections (see sections 4.4 and 5.1):


Complicated skin and soft tissue infections (cSSTI), excluding diabetic foot infections (see 
section 4.4);
Complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAI).
Tygacil should be used only in situations where other alternative antibiotics are not suitable (see 
sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1).
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Posology
Adults
The recommended dose is an initial dose of 100 mg followed by 50 mg every 12 hours for 5 to 
14 days.
Children and adolescents (8 to 17 years of age)
Children aged 8 to <12 years: 1.2 mg/kg of tigecycline every 12 hours intravenously to a maximum 
dose of 50 mg every 12 hours for 5 to 14 days.
Adolescents aged 12 to <18 years: 50 mg of tigecycline every 12 hours for 5 to 14 days.
The duration of therapy should be guided by the severity, site of the infection, and the patient’s 
clinical response.
Elderly
No dosage adjustment is necessary in elderly patients (see section 5.2).
2
Hepatic impairment
No dosage adjustment is warranted in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh 
A and Child Pugh B).
In patients (including paediatrics) with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh C), the dose of 
tigecycline should be reduced by 50 %. Adult dose should be reduced to 25 mg every 12 hours 
following the 100 mg loading dose. Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh C) should be 
treated with caution and monitored for treatment response (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with renal impairment or in patients undergoing 
haemodialysis (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Tygacil in children under 8 years of age have not been established. No data 
are available. Tygacil should not be used in children aged under 8 years because of teeth 
discolouration (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
Method of administration
Tigecycline is administered only by intravenous infusion over 30 to 60 minutes (see sections 4.4 
and 6.6). Tigecycline should be preferably administered over a 60-minute length of infusion in 
paediatric patients (see section 4.4).
For instructions on reconstitution & dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see 
section 6.6.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Patients hypersensitive to tetracycline class antibiotics may be hypersensitive to tigecycline.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
In clinical studies in complicated skin and soft tissue infections (cSSTI), complicated intra-abdominal 
infections (cIAI), diabetic foot infections, nosocomial pneumonia and studies in resistant pathogens, a 
numerically higher mortality rate among tigecycline treated patients has been observed as compared to 
the comparator treatment. The causes of these findings remain unknown, but poorer efficacy and 
safety than the study comparators cannot be ruled out.
Superinfection
In clinical trials in cIAI patients, impaired healing of the surgical wound has been associated with 
superinfection. A patient developing impaired healing should be monitored for the detection of 
superinfection (see section 4.8).
Patients who develop superinfections, in particular nosocomial pneumonia, appear to be associated 
with poorer outcomes. Patients should be closely monitored for the development of superinfection. If a 
focus of infection other than cSSTI or cIAI is identified after initiation of tigecycline therapy 
consideration should be given to instituting alternative antibacterial therapy that has been 
demonstrated to be efficacious in the treatment of the specific type of infection(s) present.
Anaphylaxis
Anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, potentially life-threatening, have been reported with tigecycline 
(see sections 4.3 and 4.8).
3
Hepatic failure
Cases of liver injury with a predominantly cholestatic pattern have been reported in patients receiving 
tigecycline treatment, including some cases of hepatic failure with a fatal outcome. Although hepatic 
failure may occur in patients treated with tigecycline due to the underlying conditions or concomitant 
medicinal products, a possible contribution of tigecycline should be considered (see section 4.8).
Tetracycline class antibiotics
Glycylcycline class antibiotics are structurally similar to tetracycline class antibiotics. Tigecycline 
may have adverse reactions similar to tetracycline class antibiotics. Such reactions may include 
photosensitivity, pseudotumor cerebri, pancreatitis, and anti-anabolic action which has led to increased 
BUN, azotaemia, acidosis, and hyperphosphataemia (see section 4.8). 
Pancreatitis
Acute pancreatitis, which can be serious, has occurred (frequency: uncommon) in association with 
tigecycline treatment (see section 4.8). The diagnosis of acute pancreatitis should be considered in 
patients taking tigecycline who develop clinical symptoms, signs, or laboratory abnormalities 
suggestive of acute pancreatitis. Most of the reported cases developed after at least one week of 
treatment. Cases have been reported in patients without known risk factors for pancreatitis. Patients 
usually improve after tigecycline discontinuation. Consideration should be given to the cessation of 
the treatment with tigecycline in cases suspected of having developed pancreatitis.
Coagulopathy
Tigecycline may prolong both prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time 
(aPTT). Additionally, hypofibrinogenaemia has been reported with the use of tigecycline. Therefore, 
blood coagulation parameters such as PT or other suitable anticoagulation test, including blood 
fibrinogen, should be monitored prior to treatment initiation with tigecycline and regularly while on 
treatment. Special care is recommended in seriously ill patients and in patients also using 
anticoagulants (see section 4.5).
Underlying diseases
Experience in the use of tigecycline for treatment of infections in patients with severe underlying 
diseases is limited.
In clinical trials in cSSTI, the most common type of infection in tigecycline treated-patients was 
cellulitis (58.6 %), followed by major abscesses (24.9 %). Patients with severe underlying disease, 
such as those that were immunocompromised, patients with decubitus ulcer infections, or patients that 
had infections requiring longer than 14 days of treatment (for example, necrotizing fasciitis), were not 
enrolled. A limited number of patients were enrolled with co-morbid factors such as diabetes (25.8 %), 
peripheral vascular disease (10.4 %), intravenous substance abuse (4.0 %), and HIV-positive infection 
(1.2 %). Limited experience is also available in treating patients with concurrent bacteraemia (3.4 %). 
Therefore, caution is advised when treating such patients. The results in a large study in patients with 
diabetic foot infection, showed that tigecycline was less effective than comparator, therefore, 
tigecycline is not recommended for use in these patients (see section 4.1).
In clinical trials in cIAI, the most common type of infection in tigecycline-treated patients was 
complicated appendicitis (50.3 %), followed by other diagnoses less commonly reported such as 
complicated cholecystitis (9.6 %), perforation of intestine (9.6 %), intra-abdominal abscess (8.7 %), 
gastric or duodenal ulcer perforation (8.3 %), peritonitis (6.2 %) and complicated diverticulitis 
(6.0 %). Of these patients, 77.8 % had surgically-apparent peritonitis. There were a limited number of 
patients with severe underlying disease such as immunocompromised patients, patients with APACHE 
II scores  15 (3.3 %), or with surgically apparent multiple intra-abdominal abscesses (11.4 %). 
4
Limited experience is also available in treating patients with concurrent bacteraemia (5.6 %). 
Therefore, caution is advised when treating such patients.
Consideration should be given to the use of combination antibacterial therapy whenever tigecycline is 
to be administered to severely ill patients with cIAI secondary to clinically apparent intestinal 
perforation or patients with incipient sepsis or septic shock (see section 4.8).
The effect of cholestasis in the pharmacokinetics of tigecycline has not been properly established.
Biliary excretion accounts for approximately 50 % of the total tigecycline excretion. Therefore, 
patients presenting with cholestasis should be closely monitored.
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents and may range in 
severity from mild to life threatening. Therefore, it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients 
who present with diarrhoea during or subsequent to the administration of any antibacterial agent (see 
section 4.8).
The use of tigecycline may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms, including fungi. 
Patients should be carefully monitored during therapy (see section 4.8).
Results of studies in rats with tigecycline have shown bone discolouration. Tigecycline may be 
associated with permanent tooth discolouration in humans if used during tooth development (see 
section 4.8).
Paediatric population
Clinical experience in the use of tigecycline for the treatment of infections in paediatric patients aged 
8 years and older is very limited (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). Consequently, use in children should be 
restricted to those clinical situations where no alternative antibacterial therapy is available.
Nausea and vomiting are very common adverse reactions in children and adolescents (see section 4.8). 
Attention should be paid to possible dehydration. Tigecycline should be preferably administered over 
a 60-minute length of infusion in paediatric patients.
Abdominal pain is commonly reported in children as it is in adults. Abdominal pain may be indicative 
of pancreatitis. If pancreatitis develops, treatment with tigecycline should be discontinued.    
Liver function tests, coagulation parameters, haematology parameters, amylase and lipase should be 
monitored prior to treatment initiation with tigecycline and regularly while on treatment.
Tygacil should not be used in children under 8 years of age due to the lack of safety and efficacy data 
in this age group and because tigecycline may be associated with permanent teeth discolouration (see 
section 4.8).
Excipient information
Tygacil contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 5 ml of solution. Patients on low sodium diets 
can be informed that this medicinal product is essentially ‘sodium free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
Concomitant administration of tigecycline and warfarin (25 mg single-dose) to healthy subjects 
resulted in a decrease in clearance of R-warfarin and S-warfarin by 40 % and 23 %, and an increase in 
AUC by 68 % and 29 %, respectively. The mechanism of this interaction is still not elucidated. 
Available data does not suggest that this interaction may result in significant INR changes. However, 
since tigecycline may prolong both prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time 
5
(aPTT), the relevant coagulation tests should be closely monitored when tigecycline is 
co-administered with anticoagulants (see section 4.4). Warfarin did not affect the pharmacokinetic 
profile of tigecycline.
Tigecycline is not extensively metabolised. Therefore, clearance of tigecycline is not expected to be 
affected by active substances that inhibit or induce the activity of the CYP450 isoforms. In vitro, 
tigecycline is neither a competitive inhibitor nor an irreversible inhibitor of CYP450 enzymes (see 
section 5.2).
Tigecycline in recommended dosage did not affect the rate or extent of absorption, or clearance of 
digoxin (0.5 mg followed by 0.25 mg daily) when administered in healthy adults. Digoxin did not 
affect the pharmacokinetic profile of tigecycline. Therefore, no dosage adjustment is necessary when 
tigecycline is administered with digoxin.
Concurrent use of antibiotics with oral contraceptives may render oral contraceptives less effective.
Concomitant use of tigecycline and calcineurin inhibitors such as tacrolimus or cyclosporine may lead 
to an increase in serum trough concentrations of the calcineurin inhibitors. Therefore, serum 
concentrations of the calcineurin inhibitor should be monitored during treatment with tigecycline to 
avoid drug toxicity.
Based on an in vitro study tigecycline is a P-gp substrate. Co-administration of P-gp inhibitors (e.g., 
ketoconazole or cyclosporine) or P-gp inducers (e.g., rifampicin) could affect the pharmacokinetics of 
tigecycline (see section 5.2).
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of tigecycline in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
As it is known for tetracycline class antibiotics, tigecycline may also induce permanent dental defects 
(discolouration and enamel defects) and a delay in ossification processes in foetuses, exposed in utero
during the last half of gestation, and in children under eight years of age due to the enrichment in 
tissues with a high calcium turnover and formation of calcium chelate complexes (see section 4.4). 
Tigecycline should not be used during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of the woman requires 
treatment with tigecycline.
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether tigecycline/metabolites are excreted in human milk. Available data in animals 
have shown excretion of tigecycline/metabolites in milk (see section 5.3). A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding 
or to discontinue/abstain from tigecycline therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for 
the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.
Fertility
The effects of tigecycline on fertility in humans have not been studied. Nonclinical studies conducted 
with tigecycline in rats do not indicate harmful effects with respect to fertility or reproductive 
performance. In female rats, there were no compound-related effects on ovaries or oestrus cycles at 
exposures up to 4.7 times the human daily dose based on AUC (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Dizziness may occur and this may have an effect on driving and use of machines (see section 4.8).
6
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of safety profile
The total number of cSSTI and cIAI patients treated with tigecycline in Phase 3 and 4 clinical studies 
was 2,393.
In clinical trials, the most common medicinal product-related treatment emergent adverse reactions 
were reversible nausea (21 %) and vomiting (13 %), which usually occurred early (on treatment days 
1-2) and were generally mild or moderate in severity.
Adverse reactions reported with tigecycline, including clinical trials and post-marketing experience, 
are tabulated below.
Frequency
not known
(cannot be
estimated
from the 
available
data)
anaphylaxis/
anaphylactoid 
reactions* (see 
sections 4.3 
and 4.4)
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
System 
Organ Class
Very 
Common
≥ 1/10
Common
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10
Uncommon
≥ 1/1,000 to
< 1/100
Rare
≥ 1/10,000 to
< 1/1,000
Infections and 
infestations
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders
Immune 
system 
disorders
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders
Nervous 
system 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Gastrointestin
al disorders 
hypofibrinoge
naemia
thrombocytop
enia, 
increased 
international 
normalised 
ratio (INR)
sepsis/septic 
shock, 
pneumonia, 
abscess, 
infections
prolonged 
activated 
partial 
thromboplasti
n time 
(aPTT), 
prolonged 
prothrombin 
time (PT)
hypoglycaemi
a, 
hypoproteinae
mia
dizziness
nausea, 
vomiting, 
diarrhoea
phlebitis
abdominal 
pain, 
dyspepsia, 
anorexia
thrombophleb
itis
acute 
pancreatitis 
(see section 
4.4)
7
Frequency
not known
(cannot be
estimated
from the 
available
data)
hepatic 
failure* (see 
section 4.4)
severe skin 
reactions, 
including 
Stevens-
Johnson 
Syndrome*
System 
Organ Class
Very 
Common
≥ 1/10
Common
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10
Uncommon
≥ 1/1,000 to
< 1/100
Rare
≥ 1/10,000 to
< 1/1,000
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions
Investigations
jaundice, liver 
injury, mostly 
cholestatic
injection site 
inflammation, 
injection site 
pain, 
injection site 
oedema, 
injection site 
phlebitis
elevated 
aspartate 
aminotransfer
ase (AST) in 
serum, and 
elevated 
alanine 
aminotransfer
ase (ALT) in 
serum, 
hyperbilirubin
aemia
pruritus, rash
impaired 
healing, 
injection site 
reaction, 
headache
elevated 
amylase in 
serum, 
increased 
blood urea 
nitrogen 
(BUN)
*ADR identified post-marketing
Description of selected adverse reactions
Antibiotic class effects
Pseudomembranous colitis which may range in severity from mild to life threatening (see section 4.4).
Overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms, including fungi (see section 4.4).
Tetracycline class effects
Glycylcycline class antibiotics are structurally similar to tetracycline class antibiotics. Tetracycline 
class adverse reactions may include photosensitivity, pseudotumour cerebri, pancreatitis, and 
anti-anabolic action which has led to increased BUN, azotaemia, acidosis, and hyperphosphataemia 
(see section 4.4). 
8
Tigecycline may be associated with permanent tooth discolouration if used during tooth development 
(see section 4.4).
In Phase 3 and 4 cSSTI and cIAI clinical studies, infection-related serious adverse reactions were more 
frequently reported for subjects treated with tigecycline (7.1 %) vs comparators (5.3 %). Significant 
differences in sepsis/septic shock with tigecycline (2.2 %) vs comparators (1.1 %) were observed.
AST and ALT abnormalities in tigecycline-treated patients were reported more frequently in the post 
therapy period than in those in comparator-treated patients, which occurred more often on therapy.
In all Phase 3 and 4 (cSSTI and cIAI) studies, death occurred in 2.4 % (54/2216) of patients receiving 
tigecycline and 1.7 % (37/2206) of patients receiving active comparators.
Paediatric population
Very limited safety data were available from two PK studies (see section 5.2). No new or unexpected 
safety concerns were observed with tigecycline in these studies.
In an open-label, single ascending dose PK study, the safety of tigecycline was investigated in 
25 children aged 8 to 16 years who recently recovered from infections. The adverse reaction profile of 
tigecycline in these 25 subjects was generally consistent with that in adults.
The safety of tigecycline was also investigated in an open-label, ascending multi-dose PK study in 
58 children aged 8 to 11 years with cSSTI (n=15), cIAI (n=24) or community-acquired pneumonia 
(n=19). The adverse reaction profile of tigecycline in these 58 subjects was generally consistent with 
that in adults, with the exception of nausea (48.3 %), vomiting (46.6 %) and elevated lipase in serum
(6.9 %) which were seen at greater frequencies in children than in adults.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage. Intravenous administration of 
tigecycline at a single dose of 300 mg over 60 minutes in healthy volunteers resulted in an increased 
incidence of nausea and vomiting. Tigecycline is not removed in significant quantities by 
haemodialysis.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antibacterials for systemic use, tetracyclines, ATC code: J01AA12.
Mechanism of action
Tigecycline, a glycylcycline antibiotic, inhibits protein translation in bacteria by binding to the 30S 
ribosomal subunit and blocking entry of amino-acyl tRNA molecules into the A site of the ribosome. 
This prevents incorporation of amino acid residues into elongating peptide chains.
9
In general, tigecycline is considered bacteriostatic. At 4 times the minimum inhibitory concentration 
(MIC), a 2-log reduction in colony counts was observed with tigecycline against Enterococcus spp., 
Staphylococcus aureus, and Escherichia coli. 
Mechanism of resistance
Tigecycline is able to overcome the two major tetracycline resistance mechanisms, ribosomal 
protection and efflux. Cross-resistance between tigecycline and minocycline-resistant isolates among 
the Enterobacterales due to multi-drug resistance (MDR) efflux pumps has been shown. There is no 
target-based cross-resistance between tigecycline and most classes of antibiotics.
Tigecycline is vulnerable to chromosomally-encoded multi-drug efflux pumps of Proteeae and 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Pathogens of the family Proteeae (Proteus spp., Providencia spp., and 
Morganella spp.) are generally less susceptible to tigecycline than other members of the 
Enterobacterales. Decreased susceptibility in both groups has been attributed to the overexpression of 
the non-specific AcrAB multi-drug efflux pump. Decreased susceptibility in Acinetobacter baumannii
has been attributed to the overexpression of the AdeABC efflux pump.
Antibacterial activity in combination with other antibacterial agents
In in vitro studies, antagonism was rarely observed between tigecycline and other commonly used 
antibiotic classes.
Breakpoints
Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) breakpoints established by the European Committee on 
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) are as follows:
Pathogen
Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) breakpoint (mg/L)
EUCAST Breakpoints
Enterobacterales: 
Escherichia coli and 
Citrobacter koseri: (†)
Staphylococcus spp.
Enterococcus spp.
Streptococcus groups A, B, 
C and G
≤S (Susceptible)
 0.5
>R (Resistant)
 0.5
 0.5
 0.25
 0.125
 0.5
 0.25
 0.125
(†)For other Enterobacterales, the activity of tigecycline varies from insufficient in Proteus spp., 
Morganella morganii and Providencia spp. to variable in other species.
For anaerobic bacteria there is clinical evidence of efficacy in polymicrobial intra-abdominal 
infections, but no correlation between MIC values, PK/PD data and clinical outcome. Therefore, no 
breakpoint for susceptibility is given. It should be noted that the MIC distributions for organisms of 
the genera Bacteroides and Clostridium are wide and may include values in excess of 2 mg/L 
tigecycline.
There is limited evidence of the clinical efficacy of tigecycline against enterococci. However, 
polymicrobial intra-abdominal infections have shown to respond to treatment with tigecycline in 
clinical trials.
10
Susceptibility
The prevalence of acquired resistance may vary geographically and with time for selected species, and 
local information on resistance is desirable, particularly when treating severe infections. As necessary, 
expert advice should be sought when the local prevalence of resistance is such that the utility of the 
agent in at least some types of infections is questionable.
Pathogen
Commonly Susceptible Species
Gram-positive Aerobes
Enterococcus spp.†
Staphylococcus aureus*
Staphylococcus epidermidis
Staphylococcus haemolyticus
Streptococcus agalactiae*
Streptococcus anginosus group* (includes S. anginosus, S. intermedius and S. constellatus)
Streptococcus pyogenes*
Viridans group streptococci
Gram-negative Aerobes
Citrobacter freundii*
Citrobacter koseri
Escherichia coli*
Anaerobes
Clostridium perfringens†
Peptostreptococcus spp.†
Prevotella spp.
Species for which acquired resistance may be a problem
Gram-negative Aerobes
Acinetobacter baumannii
Burkholderia cepacia
Enterobacter cloacae*
Klebsiella aerogenes
Klebsiella oxytoca*
Klebsiella pneumoniae*
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia
Anaerobes
Bacteroides fragilis group†
Inherently resistant organisms
Gram-negative Aerobes
Morganella morganii
Proteus spp.
Providencia spp.
Serratia marcescens
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
*denotes species against which it is considered that activity has been satisfactorily demonstrated in 
clinical studies.
† see section 5.1, Breakpoints above.
11
Cardiac Electrophysiology 
No significant effect of a single intravenous dose of tigecycline 50 mg or 200 mg on QTc interval was 
detected in a randomized, placebo- and active-controlled four-arm crossover thorough QTc study of 
46 healthy subjects.
Paediatric population
In an open-label, ascending multiple-dose study, 39 children aged 8 to 11 years with cIAI or cSSTI 
were administered tigecycline (0.75, 1, or 1.25 mg/kg). All patients received IV tigecycline for a 
minimum of 3 consecutive days to a maximum of 14 consecutive days, with the option to be switched 
to an oral antibiotic on or after day 4. 
Clinical cure was assessed between 10 and 21 days after the administration of the last dose of 
treatment. The summary of clinical response in the modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population results 
is shown in the following table. 
Clinical Cure, mITT Population
0.75 mg/kg
n/N (%)
6/6 (100.0)
3/4 (75.0)
9/10 (90.0)
1 mg/kg
n/N (%)
3/6 (50.0)
5/7 (71.4)
8/13 (62.0 %)
1.25 mg/kg
n/N (%)
10/12 (83.3)
2/4 (50.0)
12/16 (75.0)
Indication
cIAI
cSSTI
Overall
Efficacy data above shown should be viewed with caution as concomitant antibiotics were allowed in 
this study. In addition, the small number of patients should also be taken into consideration. 
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption
Tigecycline is administered intravenously and therefore has 100 % bioavailability.
Distribution
The in vitro plasma protein binding of tigecycline ranges from approximately 71 % to 89 % at 
concentrations observed in clinical studies (0.1 to 1.0 mcg/ml). Animal and human pharmacokinetic 
studies have demonstrated that tigecycline readily distributes to tissues.
In rats receiving single or multiple doses of 14C-tigecycline, radioactivity was well distributed to most 
tissues, with the highest overall exposure observed in bone marrow, salivary glands, thyroid gland, 
spleen, and kidney. In humans, the steady-state volume of distribution of tigecycline averaged 500 to 
700 L (7 to 9 L/kg), indicating that tigecycline is extensively distributed beyond the plasma volume 
and concentrates into tissues.
No data are available on whether tigecycline can cross the blood-brain barrier in humans.
In clinical pharmacology studies using the therapeutic dosage regimen of 100 mg followed by 50 mg 
q12h, serum tigecycline steady-state Cmax was 866±233 ng/ml for 30-minute infusions and 634±97 
ng/ml for 60-minute infusions. The steady-state AUC0-12h was 2349±850 ng•h/ml.
Biotransformation
On average, it is estimated that less than 20 % of tigecycline is metabolised before excretion. In 
healthy male volunteers, following the administration of 14C-tigecycline, unchanged tigecycline was 
the primary 14C-labelled material recovered in urine and faeces, but a glucuronide, an N-acetyl 
metabolite and a tigecycline epimer were also present.
12
In vitro studies in human liver microsomes indicate that tigecycline does not inhibit metabolism 
mediated by any of the following 6 cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms: 1A2, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 
and 3A4 by competitive inhibition. In addition, tigecycline did not show NADPH-dependency in the 
inhibition of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A, suggesting the absence of mechanism-based 
inhibition of these CYP enzymes. 
Elimination
The recovery of the total radioactivity in faeces and urine following administration of 14C-tigecycline 
indicates that 59 % of the dose is eliminated by biliary/faecal excretion, and 33 % is excreted in urine. 
Overall, the primary route of elimination for tigecycline is biliary excretion of unchanged tigecycline. 
Glucuronidation and renal excretion of unchanged tigecycline are secondary routes.
The total clearance of tigecycline is 24 L/h after intravenous infusion. Renal clearance is 
approximately 13 % of total clearance. Tigecycline shows a polyexponential elimination from serum 
with a mean terminal elimination half-life after multiple doses of 42 hours although high 
interindividual variability exists.
In vitro studies using Caco-2 cells indicate that tigecycline does not inhibit digoxin flux, suggesting 
that tigecycline is not a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor. This in vitro information is consistent with the 
lack of effect of tigecycline on digoxin clearance noted in the in vivo drug interaction study described 
above (see section 4.5).
Tigecycline is a substrate of P-gp based on an in vitro study using a cell line overexpressing P-gp. The 
potential contribution of P-gp-mediated transport to the in vivo disposition of tigecycline is not 
known. Co-administration of P-gp inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole or cyclosporine) or P-gp inducers 
(e.g., rifampicin) could affect the pharmacokinetics of tigecycline.
Special populations
Hepatic impairment
The single-dose pharmacokinetic disposition of tigecycline was not altered in patients with mild 
hepatic impairment. However, systemic clearance of tigecycline was reduced by 25 % and 55 % and 
the half-life of tigecycline was prolonged by 23 % and 43 % in patients with moderate or severe 
hepatic impairment (Child Pugh B and C), respectively (see section 4.2).
Renal impairment
The single dose pharmacokinetic disposition of tigecycline was not altered in patients with renal 
insufficiency (creatinine clearance 30 ml/min, n=6). In severe renal impairment, AUC was 30 % 
higher than in subjects with normal renal function (see section 4.2).
Elderly
No overall differences in pharmacokinetics were observed between healthy elderly subjects and 
younger subjects (see section 4.2).
Paediatric population
Tigecycline pharmacokinetics was investigated in two studies. The first study enrolled children aged 
8-16 years (n=24) who received single doses of tigecycline (0.5, 1, or 2 mg/kg, up to a maximum dose 
of 50 mg, 100 mg, and 150 mg, respectively) administered intravenously over 30 minutes. The second 
study was performed in children aged 8 to 11 years who received multiple doses of tigecycline (0.75, 
1, or 1.25 mg/kg up to a maximum dose of 50 mg) every 12 hours administered intravenously over 
30 minutes. No loading dose was administered in these studies. Pharmacokinetic parameters are 
summarised in the table below.
Dose Normalized to 1 mg/kg Mean ± SD Tigecycline Cmax and AUC in Children
Age (yr)
Cmax (ng/mL)
AUC (ng•h/mL)*
N
Single dose
13
8 – 11
12 - 16
Multiple dose
8 - 11
8
16
42
3881 ± 6637
8508 ± 11433
4034 ± 2874
7026 ± 4088
1911 ± 3032
2404 ± 1000
* single dose AUC0-∞, multiple dose AUC0-12h
The target AUC0-12h in adults after the recommended dose of 100 mg loading and 50 mg every 
12 hours, was approximately 2500 ng•h/mL.
Population PK analysis of both studies identified body weight as a covariate of tigecycline clearance 
in children aged 8 years and older. A dosing regimen of 1.2 mg/kg of tigecycline every 12 hours (to a 
maximum dose of 50 mg every 12 hours) for children aged 8 to <12 years and of 50 mg every 
12 hours for adolescents aged 12 to <18 years would likely result in exposures comparable to those 
observed in adults treated with the approved dosing regimen.
Higher Cmax values than in adult patients were observed in several children in these studies. As a 
consequence, care should be paid to the rate of infusion of tigecycline in children and adolescents. 
Gender
There were no clinically relevant differences in the clearance of tigecycline between men and women. 
AUC was estimated to be 20 % higher in females than in males.
Race
There were no differences in the clearance of tigecycline based on race.
Weight
Clearance, weight-normalised clearance, and AUC were not appreciably different among patients with 
different body weights, including those weighing ≥125 kg. AUC was 24 % lower in patients weighing
≥125 kg. No data is available for patients weighing 140 kg and more.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
In repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs, lymphoid depletion/atrophy of lymph nodes, spleen 
and thymus, decreased erythrocytes, reticulocytes, leukocytes, and platelets, in association with bone 
marrow hypocellularity, and adverse renal and gastrointestinal effects have been seen with tigecycline 
at exposures of 8 and 10 times the human daily dose based on AUC in rats and dogs, respectively. 
These alterations were shown to be reversible after two weeks of dosing.
Bone discolouring was observed in rats which was not reversible after two weeks of dosing.
Results of animal studies indicate that tigecycline crosses the placenta and is found in foetal tissues. In 
reproduction toxicity studies, decreased foetal weights in rats and rabbits (with associated delays in 
ossification) have been observed with tigecycline. Tigecycline was not teratogenic in the rat or rabbit.
Tigecycline did not affect mating or fertility in rats at exposures up to 4.7 times the human daily dose 
based on AUC. In female rats, there were no compound-related effects on ovaries or oestrus cycles at 
exposures up to 4.7 times the human daily dose based on AUC.
Results from animal studies using 14C-labelled tigecycline indicate that tigecycline is excreted readily 
via the milk of lactating rats. Consistent with the limited oral bioavailability of tigecycline, there is 
little or no systemic exposure to tigecycline in the nursing pups as a result of exposure via maternal 
milk.
Lifetime studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of tigecycline have not been 
performed, but short-term genotoxicity studies of tigecycline were negative. 
14
Bolus intravenous administration of tigecycline has been associated with a histamine response in 
animal studies. These effects were observed at exposures of 14 and 3 times the human daily dose 
based on the AUC in rats and dogs respectively.
No evidence of photosensitivity was observed in rats following administration of tigecycline.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Lactose monohydrate
Hydrochloric acid
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment)
6.2
Incompatibilities
The following active substances should not be administered simultaneously through the same Y-site as 
tigecycline: Amphotericin B, amphotericin B lipid complex, diazepam, esomeprazole, omeprazole and 
intravenous solutions that could result in an increase of pH above 7.
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3
Shelf life
2 years.
Once reconstituted and diluted in the bag or other suitable infusion container (e.g. glass bottle), 
tigecycline should be used immediately.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store below 25C.
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
5 ml Type 1 clear glass vials fitted with grey butyl rubber stoppers and snap-off aluminium crimp 
seals. Tygacil is distributed in a ten vial tray pack.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
The powder should be reconstituted with 5.3 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for 
injection, dextrose 50 mg/ml (5 %) solution for injection, or Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection to 
achieve a concentration of 10 mg/ml of tigecycline. The vial should be gently swirled until the 
medicinal product is dissolved. Thereafter, 5 ml of the reconstituted solution should be immediately 
withdrawn from the vial and added to a 100 ml intravenous bag for infusion or other suitable infusion 
container (e.g., glass bottle).
For a 100 mg dose, reconstitute using two vials into a 100 ml intravenous bag or other suitable 
infusion container (e.g., glass bottle). Note: The vial contains a 6 % overage. Thus, 5 ml of 
reconstituted solution is equivalent to 50 mg of the active substance.
The reconstituted solution should be yellow to orange in colour; if not, the solution should be 
discarded. Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration 
(e.g., green or black) prior to administration.
15
Tigecycline should be administered intravenously through a dedicated line or through a Y-site. If the 
same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of several active substances, the line should be 
flushed before and after infusion of tigecycline with either sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution 
for injection or dextrose 50 mg/ml (5 %) solution for injection. Injection should be made with an 
infusion solution compatible with tigecycline and any other medicinal product(s) via this common line 
(see section 6.2)
This medicinal product is for single use only; any unused medicinal product or waste material should 
be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
Compatible intravenous solutions include: sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection,
dextrose 50 mg/ml (5 %) solution for injection, and Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection.
When administered through a Y-site, compatibility of tigecycline diluted in sodium chloride 0.9 % for 
injection is demonstrated with the following medicinal products or diluents: amikacin, dobutamine, 
dopamine HCl, gentamicin, haloperidol, Lactated Ringer’s, lidocaine HCl, metoclopramide, morphine, 
norepinephrine, piperacillin/tazobactam (EDTA formulation), potassium chloride, propofol, ranitidine 
HCl, theophylline, and tobramycin.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/336/001
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 24 April 2006.
Date of latest renewal: 22 February 2016.
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
16
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
17
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
Wyeth Lederle S.r.l.
Via Franco Gorgone Z.I.
95100 Catania (CT)
Italy
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
 Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
18
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
19
A. LABELLING
20
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Tygacil 50 mg powder for solution for infusion 
Tigecycline
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains 50 mg tigecycline.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Each vial contains lactose monohydrate. The pH is adjusted with hydrochloric acid, and if necessary 
sodium hydroxide.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Powder for solution for infusion
10 vials
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use for directions on reconstitution and dilution.
For intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store below 25C.
21
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/336/001
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
SN:
NN:
22
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Tygacil 50 mg powder for infusion 
Tigecycline
For IV use only
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.
OTHER
23
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
24
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Tygacil 50 mg powder for solution for infusion
tigecycline
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you or your child.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet:
1. What Tygacil is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you receive Tygacil
3.
4.
5.
6.
How Tygacil is given
Possible side effects
How to store Tygacil
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Tygacil is and what it is used for
Tygacil is an antibiotic of the glycylcycline group that works by stopping the growth of bacteria that 
cause infections.
Your doctor has prescribed Tygacil because you or your child at least 8 years old has one of the 
following types of serious infections:


Complicated infection of the skin and soft tissues (the tissue below the skin), excluding diabetic 
foot infections.
Complicated infection in the abdomen.
Tygacil is only used when your doctor thinks other antibiotics are not suitable.
2. What you need to know before you receive Tygacil
Do not use Tygacil

If you are allergic to tigecycline, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). If you are allergic to tetracycline class antibiotics (e.g., minocycline, doxycycline, 
etc.), you may be allergic to tigecycline.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or nurse before receiving Tygacil:


If you have poor or slow wound healing.
If you are suffering from diarrhoea before you are given Tygacil. If you develop diarrhoea 
during or after your treatment, tell your doctor at once. Do not take any diarrhoea medicine 
without first checking with your doctor. 
If you have or previously had any side effects due to antibiotics belonging to the tetracycline 
class (e.g., skin sensitization to sun light, staining on developing teeth, pancreas inflammation, 
and alteration of certain laboratory values aimed at measuring how well your blood clots).

25



If you have, or previously had liver problems. Depending on the condition of your liver, your 
doctor may reduce the dose to avoid potential side effects.
If you have blockage of the bile ducts (cholestasis).
If you suffer from a bleeding disorder or are in treatment with anticoagulant drugs, as this
medicine can interfere with blood coagulation.
During treatment with Tygacil:


Tell your doctor immediately if you develop symptoms of an allergic reaction.
Tell your doctor immediately if you develop severe abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. 
These may be symptoms of acute pancreatitis (inflamed pancreas which may result in severe 
abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting).
In certain serious infections, your doctor may consider to use Tygacil in combination with other 
antibiotics.
Your doctor will monitor you closely for the development of any other bacterial infections. If 
you develop another bacterial infection, your doctor may prescribe a different antibiotic specific 
for the type of infection present.
Although antibiotics including Tygacil fight certain bacteria, other bacteria and fungi may 
continue to grow. This is called overgrowth. Your doctor will monitor you closely for any 
potential infections and treat you if necessary.



Children
Tygacil is not to be used in children less than 8 years of age due to the lack of data on safety and 
efficacy in this age group and because it may induce permanent dental defects such as staining on the 
developing teeth.
Other medicines and Tygacil
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
Tygacil may prolong certain tests that measure how well your blood is clotting. It is important that you 
tell your doctor if you are taking medicines to avoid an excess of blood clotting (named 
anticoagulants). If this were the case, your doctor will monitor you closely.
Tygacil may interfere with the contraceptive pill (birth control pill). Talk to your doctor about the need 
for an additional method of contraception while receiving Tygacil.
Tygacil may increase the effect of medicines used to suppress the immune system (such as tacrolimus 
or cyclosporine). It is important that you tell your doctor if you are taking these medicines so you can 
be closely monitored.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tygacil may cause foetal harm. If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or 
are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for advice before receiving Tygacil.
It is not known if Tygacil passes into breast milk in humans. Ask your doctor for advice before 
breast-feeding your baby.
Driving and using machines
Tygacil may cause side effects such as dizziness. This may impair your ability to drive or operate 
machinery.
Tygacil contains sodium
Tygacil contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 5 ml of solution, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
26
3.
How Tygacil is given
Tygacil will be given to you by a doctor or a nurse.
The recommended dose in adults is 100 mg given initially, followed by 50 mg every 12 hours. This 
dose is given intravenously (directly into your blood stream) over a period of 30 to 60 minutes.
The recommended dose in children aged 8 to <12 years is 1.2 mg/kg given every 12 hours 
intravenously to a maximum dose of 50 mg every 12 hours.
The recommended dose in adolescents aged 12 to <18 years is 50 mg given every 12 hours.
A course of treatment usually lasts for 5 to 14 days. Your doctor will decide how long you should be 
treated.
If you receive more Tygacil than you should
If you are concerned that you may have been given too much Tygacil, talk to your doctor or nurse 
immediately.
If you miss a dose of Tygacil
If you are concerned that you may have missed a dose, talk to your doctor or nurse immediately.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Pseudomembranous colitis may occur with most antibiotics including Tygacil. This consists of severe, 
persistent or bloody diarrhoea associated with abdominal pain or fever, which can be a sign of serious 
bowel inflammation, which may occur during or after your treatment.
Very common side effects are (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):

Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea.
Common side effects are (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):










Abscess (collection of pus), infections
Laboratory measurements of decreased ability to form blood clots
Dizziness
Vein irritations from the injection, including pain, inflammation, swelling and clotting
Abdominal pain, dyspepsia (stomach ache and indigestion), anorexia (loss of appetite)
Increases in liver enzymes, hyperbilirubinaemia (excess of bile pigment in the blood)
Pruritus (itching), rash
Poor or slow wound healing
Headache
Increase in amylase, which is an enzyme found in the salivary glands and pancreas, increased 
blood urea nitrogen (BUN).
Pneumonia
Low blood sugar
Sepsis (severe infection in the body and blood stream)/septic shock (serious medical condition 
which can lead to multiple organ failure and death as a result of sepsis)
Injection site reaction (pain, redness, inflammation)
Low protein levels in the blood





Uncommon side effects are (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):

Acute pancreatitis (inflamed pancreas which may result in severe abdominal pain, nausea, and 
vomiting) 
27


Jaundice (yellow coloration of the skin), inflammation of the liver
Low platelet levels in the blood (which may lead to an increased bleeding tendency and 
bruising/haematoma)
Rare side effects are (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people):

Low fibrinogen levels in the blood (a protein involved in blood clotting)
Not known side effects are (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data):

Anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions (that may range from mild to severe, including a sudden, 
generalised allergic reaction that may lead to a life-threatening shock [e.g. difficulty in 
breathing, drop of blood pressure, fast pulse]).
Liver failure
Skin rash, which may lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin (Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome)


Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.
5.
How to store Tygacil 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Store below 25C. Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
Storage after preparation
Once the powder has been made into a solution and diluted ready for use, it should be given to you 
immediately.
The Tygacil solution should be yellow to orange in colour after dissolving; if it is not, the solution 
should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Tygacil contains
The active substance is tigecycline. Each vial contains 50 mg of tigecycline.
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, hydrochloric acid, and sodium hydroxide.
What Tygacil looks like and contents of the pack
Tygacil is supplied as a powder for solution for infusion in a vial and looks like an orange powder or 
cake before it is diluted. These vials are distributed to the hospital in a ten tray pack. The powder 
should be mixed in the vial with a small amount of solution. The vial should be gently swirled until the 
medicine is dissolved. Thereafter, the solution should be immediately withdrawn from the vial and 
added to a 100 ml intravenous bag or other suitable infusion container in the hospital. 
28
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
Manufacturer
Wyeth Lederle S.r.l.
Via Franco Gorgone Z.I.
95100 Catania (CT)
Italy
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Pfizer NV/SA
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Lietuva
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas 
Lietuvoje
Tel: + 370 5 251 4000
България
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон 
България
Teл:: +359 2 970 4333
Magyarország
Pfizer Kft.
Tel: +36 1 488 37 00
Česká republika
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111
Danmark
Pfizer ApS
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00
Malta
Vivian Corporation Ltd.
Tel: +356 21344610
Nederland
Pfizer BV
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636
Deutschland
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000
Norge
Pfizer AS
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00
Eesti
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 666 7500
Österreich
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0
Ελλάδα
Pfizer Ελλάς Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 6785800
España
Pfizer, S.L.
Tel:+34 91 490 99 00
France
Pfizer
Tél +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40
Hrvatska
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 3908 777
Polska
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.,
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00
Portugal
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.
Tel: (+351) 21 423 5500
România
Pfizer Romania S.R.L
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00
Slovenija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s 
področja
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400
29
Ireland
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free)
Tel:+44 (0) 1304 616161
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Simi: +354 540 8000
Italia
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21
Slovenská republika
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, 
organizačná zložka 
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500
Suomi/Finland
Pfizer Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040
Sverige 
Pfizer AB
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00
Κύπρος
Pfizer Ελλάς Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch)
Τηλ: +357 22817690
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Pfizer Limited,
Tel: +44 (0) 1304 616161
Latvijā
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā
Tel.: + 371 670 35 775
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
30
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
Instructions for use and handling (see also 3. How Tygacil is given in this leaflet)
The powder should be reconstituted with 5.3 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for 
injection, dextrose 50 mg/ml (5 %) solution for injection, or Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection to 
achieve a concentration of 10 mg/ml of tigecycline. The vial should be gently swirled until the active 
substance is dissolved. Thereafter, 5 ml of the reconstituted solution should be immediately withdrawn 
from the vial and added to a 100 ml intravenous bag for infusion or other suitable infusion container 
(e.g. glass bottle).
For a 100 mg dose, reconstitute using two vials into a 100 ml intravenous bag for infusion or other 
suitable infusion container (e.g. glass bottle).
Note: The vial contains a 6 % overage. Thus, 5 ml of reconstituted solution is equivalent to 50 mg of 
the active substance. The reconstituted solution should be yellow to orange in colour; if not, the 
solution should be discarded. Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter 
and discolouration (e.g. green or black) prior to administration.
Tigecycline should be administered intravenously through a dedicated line or through a Y-site. If the 
same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of several active substances, the line should be 
flushed before and after infusion of tigecycline with either sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution 
for injection or dextrose 50 mg/ml (5 %) solution for injection. Injection should be made with an 
infusion solution compatible with tigecycline and any other medicinal product(s) via this common 
line.
Compatible intravenous solutions include: sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection, 
dextrose 50 mg/ml (5 %) solution for injection, and Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection.
When administered through a Y-site, compatibility of tigecycline diluted in sodium chloride 0.9 % for 
injection is demonstrated with the following medicinal products or diluents: amikacin, dobutamine, 
dopamine HCl, gentamicin, haloperidol, Lactated Ringer’s, lidocaine HCl, metoclopramide, morphine, 
norepinephrine, piperacillin/tazobactam (EDTA formulation), potassium chloride, propofol, ranitidine 
HCl, theophylline, and tobramycin.
Tygacil must not be mixed with other medicinal products for which compatibility data are not 
available.
Once reconstituted and diluted in the bag or other suitable infusion container (e.g. glass bottle) 
tigecycline should be used immediately.
For single use only, any unused solution should be discarded.
31
