30 November 2012 
EMA/14583/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report 
Tygacil 
tigecycline 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/000644/A-20/0072 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment ...................................... 5 
4. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 5 
Assessment report  
EMA/14583/2013  
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
The US Food and Drug Administration informed the European Medicines Agency that following an 
inspection, concerns have been raised about the conduct of bio-analytical studies performed by the 
Cetero research facilities in Houston (Texas, USA) during the period from April 2005 to June 2010. The 
inspection identified significant instances of misconduct and violations of federal regulations, including 
falsification of documents and manipulation of samples. Other Cetero Research sites were not affected. 
In the European Union, it was identified that this could potentially impact the marketing authorisation 
of Tygacil. 
On 16 November 2011 the European Medicines Agency (EMA) informed relevant MAHs that the Food 
and Drug Administration had raised concerns, following its inspection of Cetero Research facilities in 
Houston (Texas, USA), on the conduct of bio-analytical studies in the period between April 2005 and 
June 2010. The EMA asked MAH of all centrally authorised medicinal products to identify the products 
for which the marketing authorisation dossier included studies conducted at the above mentioned 
facility. 
The MAH for Tygacil provided responses in March 2012 and May 2012. 
On 2 May 2012, the FDA informed the EMA of a letter sent to Cetero confirming that, based on the 
final results of the inspection, the period of concern for which data generated by Cetero was considered 
potentially unreliable and for which the FDA recommended actions to be taken is from April 2005 to 
August 2009. 
A Rapporteur’s assessment report on the MAH’s responses was circulated on 6 July 2012. 
In view of the above the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004. The European Commission requested the CHMP on 16 July 2012 to assess whether 
the deficiencies in conduct of bio-analytical studies performed by the Cetero Research facilities in 
Houston (Texas, USA) have impact on the benefit-risk balance of Tygacil, and to give its opinion on 
whether measures are necessary to ensure the safe use of the product and specifically on whether the 
marketing authorisation for Tygacil should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Tygacil  contains  tigecycline,  a  glycylcycline  antibiotic  and  an  analogue  of  the  semi-synthetic 
tetracycline,  minocycline.  Tygacil  is  authorised  via  the  centralized  procedure  since  24th  April  2006 
and  is  currently  approved  in  complicated  skin  and  soft  tissue  infections,  excluding  diabetic  foot 
infections  and  in  complicated  intra-abdominal  infections.  An  application  to  extend  the  indications  to 
include  the  treatment  of  community  acquired  pneumonia  was  withdrawn  by  the  holder  in  April  2008 
before the CHMP had reached an opinion. Tygacil is available as a powder for solution for infusion. 
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
The MAH provided responses to the CHMP list of questions, submitting an overview of the studies 
affected by the findings of the inspection of the Cetero Research facilities in Houston, Texas. A total of 
ten affected studies were identified for Tygacil and the MAH stated that a data examination and 
verification process has been initiated for all studies and is currently ongoing. 
The MAH considered six of the identified studies to be irrelevant to the assessment of the impact of the 
findings of the inspection of the Cetero Research facilities on the benefit-risk balance of Tygacil. 
Studies 3074K5-319-WW, 3074A1-311-WW and 3074A1-313-WW were submitted in support of 
applications for indications (diabetic foot, nosocomial pneumonia and community acquired pneumonia 
respectively) which were subsequently withdrawn for Tygacil, while studies 3074A1-307-WW and 
3074A1-308-WW did not support any indications or recommendation in the SmPC. The last study, 
study 3074A1-110-US, was an additional single dose study to characterize the pharmacokinetics of 
intravenous tigecycline in children, submitted as part of a failed application, in which the CHMP 
concluded that the submitted evidence in support of the dose regimen was weak and needed more 
investigation. As a consequence, the MAH performed study 3074A1-2207-WW (discussed later in the 
Assessment report  
EMA/14583/2013  
Page 3/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
report), which supersedes study 3074A1-110-US. No revised bioanalytical reports are available for 
these studies, but they are expected to become available in June 2013. 
Regarding the four studies which were considered relevant, the MAH stated that revised bioanalytical 
reports were received from Cetero Research in April 2012 for these studies and provided summaries of 
the studies and the findings of the revised reports. 
For study 3074A1-309-WW (“A Phase 3, Open-Label, Non-comparative Study Of Tigecycline For The 
Treatment Of Subjects With Selected Serious Infections Due To Resistant Gram-Negative Organisms 
Such As Enterobacter Species, Acinetobacter Baumannii, And Klebsiella Pneumoniae”), data from run 3 
(of a total of 11) required recalculation of the regression equation. The run did not pass acceptance 
criteria, the results were removed and the report revised and reissued. A total of 9 serum 
concentrations were removed from a total of 160 samples. The MAH stated that these were critical 
samples as they were collected immediately after the infusion was completed and it will therefore be 
difficult to calculate the individual parameters using non-compartmental methods because of the 
limited number of samples collected for each subject. The MAH proposed to recalculate a summary of 
the remaining pharmacokinetic parameters and revise and submit the clinical study report to the CHMP 
when it becomes available, which is expected to be in June 2013. 
For study 3074A1-2207-WW (“A Multicenter, Open-Label, Ascending Multiple-Dose Study To Assess 
The Pharmacokinetics, Safety, And Tolerability Of Tigecycline In Patients 8 To 11 Years Of Age With 
Selected Serious Infections”), data from 12 runs are valid as there was no evidence of sample 
substitution but data from the 13th run needs to be removed. The results for 3 subjects (#65, #173 
and #178), all of whom received 1 mg/kg, had to be removed entirely. In this study, serum 
concentrations were measured to describe tigecycline pharmacokinetics in paediatric patients with 
complicated skin and skin structure infections, complicated intra-abdominal infections or community 
acquired pneumonia. The MAH provided the recalculation of the summary of the parameters presented 
in the SmPC, which resulted in minor changes to the pharmacokinetics data reported for a multiple 
dose study conducted in 8 – 11 year old patients, corresponding to an increase of 0.6% for Cmax and 
~ 0.3% for AUC0-12h, which the MAH considered relatively modest. The MAH therefore concluded that 
the changes do not impact the overall conclusions and descriptive interpretation of the PK parameters 
observed in this age group. The MAH proposed to revise and submit the clinical study report to the 
CHMP when it becomes available, which is expected to be by end of February 2013. 
For study 3074A1-120-US (“Open-Label, Single-Dose Study of the Pharmacokinetics of Tigecycline in 
Adult Subjects with Primary Biliary Cirrhosis“), a total of 3 serum sample results were removed 
(Subject 1, Period 1, hour 0.5 and Subject 26, Period 1, hours 48 and 96. Only the first result, which 
corresponds to the peak concentration for Subject 1, required reanalysis of the pharmacokinetic 
parameter, as the other results were previously reported as below the quantitation limit (BQL). The 
MAH proposed to recalculate the pharmacokinetic parameters as possible, determine the summary 
statistics and revise and submit the clinical study report to the CHMP when it becomes available, which 
is expected to be in June 2013. 
Study 3074A1-119-US (“Open-Label, Multiple-Dose Study of the Pharmacokinetics of Tigecycline in 
Human Bone”) was never submitted to the CHMP. The bone assay was not performed by Cetero 
Research and was not in question. A single serum concentration (Subject 18, Period 1, Day 2, Hour 1) 
needed to be removed. The corresponding bone sample was not collected properly, so the bone:serum 
ratio was not reported. The serum concentration was combined with those collected at the same time 
from 7 other subjects. Redacting the single concentration caused a 2% decrease in the reported the 
average concentration for the time but no change in the reported AUC for serum and consequently, no 
change in the ratio of AUCbone:AUCserum was reported for the study. The MAH proposed to revise and 
submit the clinical study report to the CHMP when it becomes available, which is expected to be in 
June 2013. 
The CHMP noted the four studies considered critical due to the potential impact of the concerns raised 
regarding the bio-analytical analyses conducted at the Cetero Research facilities in Houston. 
The CHMP acknowledged that study 3074A1-119-US was never submitted to the CHMP. 
Study 3074A1-309-WW was an open-label, non-comparative, multicentre study to evaluate the safety 
and efficacy of tigecycline in subjects with selected serious infections caused by resistant gram-
negative organisms. It was submitted as part of the original Tygacil marketing authorisation 
application but no statements regarding the efficacy of tigecycline in this study population is included 
in the SmPC and the CHMP therefore considered that the ongoing re-analysis will not have an impact 
on the Tygacil marketing authorisation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/14583/2013  
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 3074A1-120-US was submitted in the context of the follow-up measure FU2 021.2, to assess the 
pharmacokinetics profile of tigecycline in patients with biliar cholestasis. The information provided in 
this study did not modify the CHMP concern on the potential risk for overexposure in patients with 
biliar cholestasis, since the data presented was very limited and generated only in patients with minor 
degrees of cholestasis. As a result, no SmPC modifications were implemented and the CHMP was 
therefore of the opinion that the results of the reanalysis of samples will impact neither the conclusions 
of the study not the Tygacil marketing authorisation. 
Study 3074A1-2207-WW was submitted to support variation EMEA/H/C/644/II/057 to include 
paediatric pharmacokinetic data in section 5.2 of the SmPC, as requested by the CHMP in FUM 52.1. It 
is the only study considered to have a possible impact on the marketing authorisation of Tygacil, as 
data from this study are referenced in the Tygacil SmPC. The CHMP agreed with the MAH position that 
only a few data are affected and that once corrected, there will only be a need for a small revision of 
the information available, given that the revised data will represent a change of less than 1% and will 
not impact the understanding of the pharmacokinetics of tigecycline in children. Considering that no 
indication or posology recommendation for the paediatric population is given in section 4.2 of the 
SmPC and bearing in mind the preliminary findings and reanalyses conducted, the possible impact is 
expected to be minimal. The CHMP was therefore of the view that the SmPC should be updated to 
reflect the revised PK data in children, once the results of the ongoing third party audit become 
available. 
Regarding the 6 other studies potentially affected, the CHMP agreed that these are not considered 
critical and was of the view that there is no need for specific action. The CHMP noted that the MAH will 
present final reports for all ten studies after the conclusions of the ongoing investigations, which is 
considered sufficient.  
3.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
In conclusion, having assessed the responses provided by the MAH with regard to the studies affected 
by the findings of the inspection of the Cetero Research facilities in Houston (Texas, USA), the CHMP 
was of the view that the concerns raised regarding the bio-analytical analyses conducted at the Cetero 
Research facilities in Houston (Texas, USA) did not impact the efficacy and safety of Tygacil and that 
the benefit-risk balance therefore remains positive. 
4.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas, 
• 
• 
• 
The Committee considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, for 
Tygacil, initiated by the European Commission. 
The Committee reviewed the relevant available data. 
The Committee concluded, in view of available data, that any potential deficiencies in the 
conduct of bio-analytical studies by the Cetero Research facilities do not impact the benefit-risk 
balance of Tygacil.  
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Tygacil remains positive 
under normal conditions of use.  
Assessment report  
EMA/14583/2013  
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
