ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyruko 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of concentrate contains 20 mg of natalizumab. 
When diluted (see section 6.6), the solution for infusion contains approximately 2.6 mg per mL of 
natalizumab. 
Natalizumab is a recombinant humanised anti-α4-integrin antibody produced in a Chinese Hamster 
Ovary (CHO) cell line by recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each vial contains 2.3 mmol (or 52 mg) sodium (see section 4.4 for further information). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) 
Colourless, clear to slightly opalescent solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Tyruko is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in adults with highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) for the following patient groups: 
• 
or 
• 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy (DMT) (for exceptions and information about washout periods 
see sections 4.4 and 5.1)  
Patients with rapidly evolving severe RRMS defined by 2 or more disabling relapses in one 
year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
(MRI) or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy is to be initiated and continuously supervised by specialised physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of neurological conditions, in centres with timely access to MRI.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients treated with this medicinal product must be given the patient alert card and be informed about 
the risks of the medicinal product (see also package leaflet). After 2 years of treatment, patients should 
be re-informed about the risks, especially the increased risk of Progressive Multifocal 
Leukoencephalopathy (PML), and should be instructed together with their caregivers on early signs 
and symptoms of PML. 
Resources for the management of hypersensitivity reactions and access to MRI should be available. 
Some patients may have been exposed to immunosuppressive medicinal products (e.g. mitoxantrone, 
cyclophosphamide, azathioprine). These medicinal products have the potential to cause prolonged 
immunosuppression, even after dosing is discontinued. Therefore the physician must confirm that such 
patients are not immunocompromised before starting treatment (see section 4.4).  
Posology  
Tyruko 300 mg is administered by intravenous infusion once every 4 weeks.  
Continued therapy must be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic 
benefit beyond 6 months.  
Data on the safety and efficacy of natalizumab at 2 years were generated from controlled, double– 
blind studies. After 2 years continued therapy should be considered only following a reassessment of 
the potential for benefit and risk. Patients should be re-informed about the risk factors for PML, like 
duration of treatment, immunosuppressant use prior to receiving the medicinal product and the 
presence of anti-John Cunningham virus (JCV) antibodies (see section 4.4). 
Readministration  
The efficacy of re-administration has not been established, (for safety see section 4.4). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
This medicinal product is not recommended for use in patients aged over 65 due to a lack of data in 
this population.  
Renal and hepatic impairment  
Studies have not been conducted to examine the effects of renal or hepatic impairment.  
The mechanism for elimination and results from population pharmacokinetics suggest that dose 
adjustment would not be necessary in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of natalizumab in children and adolescents up to 18 years have not been 
established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1 but no recommendation on a 
posology can be made. 
Method of administration  
This medicinal product is for intravenous use. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration (see section 6.6). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After dilution (see section 6.6), the infusion is to be administered over approximately 1 hour and 
patients are to be observed during the infusion and for 1 hour after the completion of the infusion for 
signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions. 
After the first 12 intravenous doses, patients should continue to be observed during infusion. If the 
patients have not experienced any infusion reactions, the post dose observation time may be reduced 
or removed according to clinical judgement.  
Patients restarting natalizumab treatment after a treatment gap ≥ 6 months are to be observed during 
the infusion and for 1 hour after the completion of the infusion for signs and symptoms of 
hypersensitivity reactions for the first 12 intravenous infusions after restarting therapy. 
Tyruko 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion must not be administered as a bolus injection. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).  
Patients with increased risk for opportunistic infections, including immunocompromised patients 
(including those currently receiving immunosuppressive therapies or those immunocompromised by 
prior therapies (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).  
Combination with other DMTs.  
Known active malignancies, except for patients with cutaneous basal cell carcinoma. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Use of natalizumab has been associated with an increased risk of PML, an opportunistic infection 
caused by JC virus, which may be fatal or result in severe disability. Due to this increased risk of 
developing PML, the benefits and risks of treatment should be individually reconsidered by the 
specialist physician and the patient; patients must be monitored at regular intervals throughout and 
should be instructed together with their caregivers on early signs and symptoms of PML. JC virus also 
causes JCV granule cell neuronopathy (GCN) which has been reported in patients treated with 
natalizumab. Symptoms of JCV GCN are similar to symptoms of PML (i.e. cerebellar syndrome). 
The following risk factors are associated with an increased risk of PML: 
• 
• 
• 
The presence of anti-JCV antibodies.  
Treatment duration, especially beyond 2 years. After 2 years all patients should be re-informed 
about the risk of PML with the medicinal product. 
Immunosuppressant use prior to receiving the medicinal product.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who are anti-JCV antibody positive are at an increased risk of developing PML compared to 
patients who are anti-JCV antibody negative. Patients who have all three risk factors for PML (i.e., are 
anti-JCV antibody positive and have received more than 2 years of therapy with natalizumab and 
have received prior immunosuppressant therapy) have a significantly higher risk of PML.  
In anti-JCV antibody positive natalizumab treated patients who have not used prior 
immunosuppressants the level of anti-JCV antibody response (index) is associated with the level of 
risk for PML.  
In anti-JCV antibody positive patients, extended interval dosing of natalizumab (average dosing 
interval of approximately 6 weeks) is suggested to be associated with a lower PML risk compared to 
approved dosing. If utilising extended interval dosing, caution is required because the efficacy of 
extended interval dosing has not been established and the associated benefit/risk balance is currently 
unknown (see section 5.1, Intravenous administration Q6W). For further information, refer to the 
Physician Information and Management Guidelines. 
Patients considered at high risk treatment with this treatment should only be continued if the benefits 
outweigh the risks. For the estimation of PML risk in the different patient subgroups, please refer to 
the Physician Information and Management Guidelines. 
Anti-JCV antibody testing 
Anti-JCV antibody testing provides supportive information for risk stratification of treatment with this 
medicinal product. Testing for serum anti-JCV antibody prior to initiating therapy or in patients 
receiving the medicinal product with an unknown antibody status is recommended. Anti-JCV antibody 
negative patients may still be at risk of PML for reasons such as a new JCV infection, fluctuating 
antibody status or a false negative test result. Re-testing of anti-JCV antibody negative patients every 
6 months is recommended. Retesting low index patients who have no history of prior 
immunosuppressant use every 6 months once they reach the 2 year treatment point is recommended. 
The anti-JCV antibody assay (ELISA) should not be used to diagnose PML. Use of 
plasmapheresis/plasma exchange (PLEX) or intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) can affect 
meaningful interpretation of serum anti-JCV antibody testing. Patients should not be tested for anti-
JCV antibodies within 2 weeks of PLEX due to removal of antibodies from the serum, or within 
6 months of IVIg (i.e. 6 months = 5x half-life for immunoglobulins). 
Testing for serum anti-JCV antibody should be performed using a CE-marked IVD with the 
corresponding intended purpose. If the CE-marked IVD is not available, testing for serum anti-JCV 
antibody should be performed using an alternative validated test. 
For further information on anti-JCV antibody testing please see Physician Information and 
Management Guidelines. 
MRI screening for PML 
Before initiation of treatment with this medicinal product, a recent (usually within 3 months) MRI 
should be available as a reference, and be repeated at least on a yearly basis. More frequent MRIs (e.g. 
on a 3 to 6 monthly basis) using an abbreviated protocol should be considered for patients at higher 
risk of PML. This includes: 
Patients who have all three risk factors for PML (i.e., are anti-JCV antibody positive and have 
received more than 2 years of therapy with this medicinal product and have received prior 
immunosuppressant therapy), 
• 
or 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Patients with a high anti-JCV antibody index who have received more than 2 years of therapy 
with this medicinal product and without prior history of immunosuppressant therapy. 
Current evidence suggests that the risk of PML is low at low index values and increases substantially 
at high index values for patients who have been on treatment with natalizumab for longer than 2 years. 
Index threshold values for low/high PML risk depend on the specific anti-JCV antibody test used (see 
the Physician Information and Management Guidelines for further information). 
No studies have been performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of natalizumab when switching 
patients from DMTs with an immunosuppressant effect. It is unknown if patients switching from these 
therapies to this treatment have an increased risk of PML, therefore these patients should be monitored 
more frequently (i.e. similarly to patients switching from immunosuppressants to natalizumab). 
PML should be considered as a differential diagnosis in any MS patient taking Tyruko presenting with 
neurological symptoms and/or new brain lesions in MRI. Cases of asymptomatic PML based on MRI 
and positive JCV DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid have been reported. 
Physicians should refer to the Physician Information and Management Guidelines for further 
information on managing the risk of PML in natalizumab-treated patients. 
If PML or JCV GCN is suspected, further dosing must be suspended until PML has been 
excluded. 
The clinician should evaluate the patient to determine if the symptoms are indicative of neurological 
dysfunction and, if so, whether these symptoms are typical of MS or possibly suggestive of PML or 
JCV GCN. If any doubt exists, further evaluation, including MRI scan preferably with contrast 
(compared with pre-treatment baseline MRI), CSF testing for JC Viral DNA and repeat neurological 
assessments, should be considered as described in the Physician Information and Management 
Guidelines (see Educational guidance). Once the clinician has excluded PML and/or JCV GCN (if 
necessary, by repeating clinical, imaging and/or laboratory investigations if clinical suspicion 
remains), dosing may resume. 
The physician should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML or JCV GCN that the 
patient may not notice (e.g. cognitive, psychiatric symptoms or cerebellar syndrome). Patients should 
also be advised to inform their partner or caregivers about their treatment, since they may notice 
symptoms that the patient is not aware of. 
PML has been reported following discontinuation of natalizumab in patients who did not have findings 
suggestive of PML at the time of discontinuation. Patients and physicians should continue to follow 
the same monitoring protocol and be alert for any new signs or symptoms that may be suggestive of 
PML for approximately 6 months following discontinuation of Tyruko. 
If a patient develops PML the dosing of natalizumab must be permanently discontinued. 
Following reconstitution of the immune system in immunocompromised patients with PML improved 
outcome has been seen. 
Based on a retrospective analysis of natalizumab-treated patients since its approval, no difference was 
observed on 2-year survival after PML diagnosis between patients who received PLEX and those who 
did not. For other considerations on the management of PML, see the Physician Information and 
Management Guidelines. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PML and IRIS (Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome) 
IRIS occurs in almost all PML patients treated with natalizumab after withdrawal or removal of the 
medicinal product. IRIS is thought to result from the restoration of immune function in patients with 
PML, which can lead to serious neurological complications and may be fatal. Monitoring for 
development of IRIS and appropriate treatment of the associated inflammation during recovery from 
PML should be undertaken (see the Physician Information and Management Guidelines for further 
information). 
Infections including other opportunistic infections 
Other opportunistic infections have been reported with use of natalizumab, primarily in patients with 
Crohn’s disease who were immunocompromised or where significant co-morbidity existed, however 
increased risk of other opportunistic infections with use of the medicinal product in patients without 
these co-morbidities cannot currently be excluded. Opportunistic infections were also detected in MS 
patients treated with natalizumab as a monotherapy (see section 4.8). 
This treatment increases the risk of developing encephalitis and meningitis caused by herpes simplex 
and varicella zoster viruses. Serious, life-threatening, and sometimes fatal cases have been reported in 
the post-marketing setting in multiple sclerosis patients receiving the treatment (see section 4.8). If 
herpes encephalitis or meningitis occurs, the medicinal product should be discontinued, and 
appropriate treatment for herpes encephalitis or meningitis should be administered. 
Acute retinal necrosis (ARN) is a rare fulminant viral infection of the retina caused by the family of 
herpes viruses (e.g. varicella zoster). ARN has been observed in patients being administered 
natalizumab and can be potentially blinding. Patients presenting with eye symptoms such as decreased 
visual acuity, redness and painful eye should be referred for retinal screening for ARN. Following 
clinical diagnosis of ARN, discontinuation of this medicinal product should be considered in these 
patients. 
Prescribers should be aware of the possibility that other opportunistic infections may occur during 
therapy and should include them in the differential diagnosis of infections that occur in natalizumab-
treated patients. If an opportunistic infection is suspected, dosing is to be suspended until such 
infections can be excluded through further evaluations. 
If a patient receiving this medicinal product develops an opportunistic infection, dosing of the 
medicinal product must be permanently discontinued. 
Educational guidance 
All physicians who intend to prescribe the medicinal product must ensure they are familiar with the 
Physician Information and Management Guidelines. 
Physicians must discuss the benefits and risks of natalizumab therapy with the patient and provide 
them with a patient alert card. Patients should be instructed that if they develop any infection then they 
should inform their physician that they are being treated with this medicinal product. 
Physicians should counsel patients on the importance of uninterrupted dosing, particularly in the early 
months of treatment (see hypersensitivity). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity reactions have been associated with natalizumab, including serious systemic 
reactions (see section 4.8). These reactions usually occurred during the infusion or up to 1 hour after 
completion of the infusion. The risk for hypersensitivity was greatest with early infusions and in 
patients re-exposed to treatment following an initial short exposure (one or two infusions) and 
extended period (three months or more) without treatment. However, the risk of hypersensitivity 
reactions should be considered for every infusion administered. 
Patients are to be observed during the infusion and for 1 hour after the completion of the infusion (see 
section 4.8). Resources for the management of hypersensitivity reactions should be available. 
This product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy initiated at the first symptoms or signs of 
hypersensitivity. 
Patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction must be permanently discontinued from 
treatment with natalizumab. 
Concurrent treatment with immunosuppressants 
The safety and efficacy of natalizumab in combination with other immunosuppressive and 
antineoplastic therapies have not been fully established. Concurrent use of these agents with this 
medicinal product may increase the risk of infections, including opportunistic infections, and is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
In phase 3 MS clinical trials with natalizumab intravenous infusion, concomitant treatment of relapses 
with a short course of corticosteroids was not associated with an increased rate of infection. Short 
courses of corticosteroids can be used in combination with this medicinal product. 
Prior treatment with immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapies 
Patients with a treatment history of immunosuppressant medications are at increased risk for PML. No 
studies have been performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the medicinal product when 
switching patients from DMTs with an immunosuppressant effect. It is unknown if patients switching 
from these therapies to this medicinal product have an increased risk of PML, therefore these patients 
should be monitored more frequently (i.e. similarly to patients switching from immunosuppressants to 
this medicinal product, see MRI screening for PML). 
Care should be taken with patients who have previously received immunosuppressants to allow 
sufficient time for immune function recovery to occur. Physicians must evaluate each individual case 
to determine whether there is evidence of an immunocompromised state prior to commencing 
treatment (see section 4.3). 
When switching patients from another DMT to this medicinal product, the half-life and mode of action 
of the other therapy must be considered in order to avoid an additive immune effect whilst at the same 
time minimising the risk of disease reactivation. A Complete Blood Count (CBC, including 
lymphocytes) is recommended prior to initiating treatment to ensure that immune effects of the 
previous therapy (i.e. cytopenia) have resolved. 
Patients can switch directly from beta interferon or glatiramer acetate to natalizumab providing there 
are no signs of relevant treatment-related abnormalities e.g. neutropenia and, lymphopenia. 
When switching from dimethyl fumarate, the washout period should be sufficient for lymphocyte 
count to recover before treatment is started. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following discontinuation of fingolimod, lymphocyte count progressively returns to normal range 
within 1 to 2 months after stopping therapy. The washout period should be sufficient for lymphocyte 
count to recover before treatment is started. 
Teriflunomide is eliminated slowly from the plasma. Without an accelerated elimination procedure, 
clearance of teriflunomide from plasma can take from several months up to 2 years. An accelerated 
elimination procedure as defined in the teriflunomide Summary of Product Characteristics is 
recommended or alternatively washout period should not be shorter than 3.5 months. Caution 
regarding potential concomitant immune effects is required when switching patients from 
teriflunomide to this medicinal product. 
Alemtuzumab has profound prolonged immunosuppressive effects. As the actual duration of these 
effects is unknown, initiating treatment with this medicinal product after alemtuzumab is not 
recommended unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks for the individual patient. 
Immunogenicity 
Disease exacerbations or infusion related events may indicate the development of antibodies against 
natalizumab. In these cases the presence of antibodies should be evaluated and if these remain positive 
in a confirmatory test after at least 6 weeks, treatment should be discontinued, as persistent antibodies 
are associated with a substantial decrease in efficacy of natalizumab and an increased incidence of 
hypersensitivity reactions (see section 4.8). 
Since patients who have received an initial short exposure to natalizumab and then had an extended 
period without treatment are at a higher risk of developing anti-natalizumab antibodies and/or 
hypersensitivity upon redosing, the presence of antibodies should be evaluated and if these remain 
positive in a confirmatory test after at least 6  weeks, the patient should not receive further treatment 
with natalizumab (see section 5.1). 
Hepatic events 
Spontaneous serious adverse reactions of liver injury have been reported during the post-marketing 
phase (see section 4.8). These liver injuries may occur at any time during treatment, even after the first 
dose. In some instances, the reaction reoccurred when treatment was reintroduced. Some patients with 
a past medical history of an abnormal liver test have experienced an exacerbation of abnormal liver 
test while on treatment. Patients should be monitored as appropriate for impaired liver function, and be 
instructed to contact their physician in case signs and symptoms suggestive of liver injury occur, such 
as jaundice and vomiting. In cases of significant liver injury this medicinal product should be 
discontinued. 
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia, including immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), has been reported with the 
use of natalizumab. Delay in the diagnosis and treatment of thrombocytopenia may lead to serious and 
life-threatening sequelae. Patients should be instructed to report to their physician immediately if they 
experience any signs of unusual or prolonged bleeding, petechiae, or spontaneous bruising. If 
thrombocytopenia is identified, discontinuation of natalizumab should be considered. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stopping therapy 
If a decision is made to stop treatment with natalizumab, the physician needs to be aware that 
natalizumab remains in the blood, and has pharmacodynamic effects (e.g increased lymphocyte 
counts) for approximately 12 weeks following the last dose. Starting other therapies during this 
interval will result in a concomitant exposure to natalizumab. For medicinal products such as 
interferon and glatiramer acetate, concomitant exposure of this duration was not associated with safety 
risks in clinical trials. No data are available in MS patients regarding concomitant exposure with 
immunosuppressant medication. Use of these medicinal products soon after the discontinuation of 
natalizumab may lead to an additive immunosuppressive effect. This should be carefully considered 
on a case-by-case basis, and a wash-out period of natalizumab might be appropriate. Short courses of 
steroids used to treat relapses were not associated with increased infections in clinical trials. 
Sodium content 
Before dilution, this medicinal product contains 52 mg sodium per vial of medicinal product, 
equivalent to 2.6% of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Natalizumab is contraindicated in combination with other DMTs (see section 4.3). 
Immunisations 
In a randomised, open label study of 60 patients with relapsing MS there was no significant difference 
in the humoral immune response to a recall antigen (tetanus toxoid) and only slightly slower and 
reduced humoral immune response to a neoantigen (keyhole limpet haemocyanin) was observed in 
patients who were treated with natalizumab for 6 months compared to an untreated control group. Live 
vaccines have not been studied. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
If a woman becomes pregnant while taking this medicinal product, discontinuation should be 
considered. A benefit/risk evaluation of the use of this medicinal product during pregnancy should 
take into account the patient’s clinical condition and the possible return of disease activity after 
stopping the medicinal product. 
Pregnancy 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Data from clinical trials, a prospective pregnancy registry, post-marketing cases and available 
literature do not suggest an effect of natalizumab exposure on pregnancy outcomes. 
The completed prospective natalizumab pregnancy registry contained 355 pregnancies with available 
outcomes. There were 316 live births, 29 of which were reported to have birth defects. Sixteen of the 
29 were classified as major defects. The rate of defects corresponds to the defect rates reported in 
other pregnancy registries involving MS patients. There is no evidence of a specific pattern of birth 
defects with natalizumab. 
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of natalizumab therapy in pregnant women. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thrombocytopenia and anaemia in infants born to women exposed to natalizumab during pregnancy 
were reported in the post-marketing setting. Monitoring of platelet counts and haemoglobin is 
recommended in neonates born to women exposed to natalizumab during pregnancy. 
This medicinal product should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. If a woman becomes 
pregnant while taking natalizumab, discontinuation of natalizumab should be considered. 
Breast-feeding 
Natalizumab is excreted in human milk. The effect of natalizumab on newborns/infants is unknown. 
Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with natalizumab. 
Fertility 
Reductions in female guinea pig fertility were observed in one study at doses in excess of the human 
dose; natalizumab did not affect male fertility. It is considered unlikely that natalizumab will affect 
fertility performance in humans following the maximum recommended dose. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tyruko has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness may occur following 
administration of natalizumab (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In placebo-controlled trials in 1 617 MS patients treated with natalizumab for up to 2 years (placebo: 
1 135), adverse events leading to discontinuation of therapy occurred in 5.8% of patients treated with 
natalizumab (placebo: 4.8%). Over the 2-year duration of the studies, 43.5% of patients treated with 
natalizumab reported adverse reactions (placebo: 39.6%). 
In clinical trials in 6 786 patients treated with natalizumab (intravenous infusion and subcutaneous 
injection), the most frequently occurring adverse reactions were headache (32%), nasopharyngitis 
(27%), fatigue (23%), urinary tract infection (16%), nausea (15%), arthralgia (14%), and dizziness 
(11%) associated with natalizumab administration. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions arising from clinical studies, post-authorisation safety studies and spontaneous 
reports are presented in Table 1, below. Within the system organ classes they are listed under the 
following headings: Very common (≥1/10); Common (≥1/100 to <1/10); Uncommon 
(≥1/1,000 to <1/100); Rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); Very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in 
order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse reactions 
MedDRA 
System Organ 
Class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Very Common 
Common 
Nasopharyngitis 
Urinary tract 
infection 
Herpes 
infection 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy 
Herpes ophthalmic 
Not known 
Meningoencephalitis  
herpetic 
JC virus granule  
cell neuropathy 
Necrotising  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA 
System Organ 
Class 
Immune system 
disorders 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Investigations 
Injury, 
poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Very Common 
Common 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Hypersensitivity  Anaphylactic 
Not known 
herpetic 
retinopathy 
reaction 
Immune 
reconstitution 
inflammatory 
syndrome 
Thrombocytopenia, 
Immune 
thrombocytopenic 
purpura (ITP) 
Eosinophilia 
Haemolytic anaemia 
Nucleated red cells 
Hyperbilirubinaemia  Liver injury 
Face oedema 
Angioedema 
Anaemia  
Hepatic 
enzyme 
increased 
Drug specific 
antibody 
present 
Dyspnoea 
Vomiting 
Pyrexia 
Chills 
Infusion site 
reaction 
Injection site 
reaction 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Urticaria 
Flushing 
Infusion related 
reaction 
Nausea 
Fatigue 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Arthralgia 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infusion-related reactions (IRR) 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients, an infusion-related event was defined as an adverse 
event occurring during the infusion or within 1 hour of the completion of the infusion. These occurred 
in 23.1% of MS patients treated with natalizumab (placebo: 18.7%). Events reported more commonly 
with natalizumab than with placebo included dizziness, nausea, urticaria and rigors. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients, hypersensitivity reactions occurred in up to 4% of 
patients. Anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving 
natalizumab. Hypersensitivity reactions usually occurred during the infusion or within the 1-hour 
period after the completion of the infusion (see section 4.4). In post-marketing experience, there have 
been reports of hypersensitivity reactions which have occurred with one or more of the following 
associated symptoms: hypotension, hypertension, chest pain, chest discomfort, dyspnoea, angioedema, 
in addition to more usual symptoms such as rash and urticaria. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-natalizumab antibodies may develop during natalizumab treatment. Persistent antibodies were 
associated with a substantial decrease in the effectiveness of natalizumab and an increased incidence 
of hypersensitivity reactions. Additional infusion-related reactions associated with persistent 
antibodies included rigors, nausea, vomiting and flushing (see section 4.4). 
If, after approximately 6 months of therapy, persistent antibodies are suspected, either due to reduced 
efficacy or due to occurrence of infusion-related events, they may be detected and confirmed with a 
subsequent test 6 weeks after the first positive test. Given that efficacy may be reduced or the 
incidence of hypersensitivity or infusion-related reactions may be increased in a patient with persistent 
antibodies, treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop persistent antibodies. 
Infections, including PML and opportunistic infections 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients, the rate of infection was approximately 1.5 per 
patient-year in both natalizumab- and placebo-treated patients. The nature of the infections was 
generally similar in natalizumab- and placebo-treated patients. A case of cryptosporidium diarrhoea 
was reported in MS clinical trials. In other clinical trials, cases of additional opportunistic infections 
have been reported, some of which were fatal. The majority of patients did not interrupt natalizumab 
therapy during infections and recovery occurred with appropriate treatment. 
In clinical trials, herpes infections (Varicella-Zoster virus, Herpes-simplex virus) occurred slightly 
more frequently in natalizumab-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients. In post-marketing 
experience, serious, life-threatening, and sometimes fatal cases of encephalitis and meningitis caused 
by herpes simplex or varicella zoster have been reported in multiple sclerosis patients receiving 
natalizumab. The duration of treatment with natalizumab prior to onset ranged from a few months to 
several years (see section 4.4). 
In post-marketing experience, rare cases of ARN have been observed in patients receiving 
natalizumab. Some cases have occurred in patients with central nervous system (CNS) herpes 
infections (e.g. herpes meningitis and encephalitis). Serious cases of ARN, either affecting one or both 
eyes, led to blindness in some patients. The treatment reported in these cases included anti-viral 
therapy and in some cases, surgery (see section 4.4). 
Cases of PML have been reported from clinical trials, post-marketing observational studies and post-
marketing passive surveillance. PML usually leads to severe disability or death (see section 4.4). 
Cases of JCV GCN have also been reported during post-marketing use of natalizumab. Symptoms of 
JCV GCN are similar to PML. 
Hepatic events 
Spontaneous cases of serious liver injuries, increased liver enzymes, hyperbilirubinaemia have been 
reported during the post-marketing phase (see section 4.4). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anaemia and haemolytic anaemia 
Rare,  serious  cases  of  anaemia  and  haemolytic  anaemia  have  been  reported  in  patients  treated  with 
natalizumab in post-marketing observational studies. 
Malignancies 
No  differences  in  incidence  rates  or  the  nature  of  malignancies  between  natalizumab-  and  placebo-
treated patients were observed over 2 years of treatment. However, observation over longer treatment 
periods is required before any effect of natalizumab on malignancies can be excluded (see section 4.3). 
Effects on laboratory tests 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients treatment with natalizumab was associated with 
increases in circulating lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, basophils and nucleated red blood cells. 
Elevations in neutrophils were not seen. Increases from baseline for lymphocytes, monocytes, 
eosinophils and basophils ranged from 35% to 140% for individual cell types but mean cell counts 
remained within normal ranges with IV administration. During treatment with IV form of natalizumab, 
small reductions in haemoglobin (mean decrease 0.6 g/dL), haematocrit (mean decrease 2%) and red 
blood cell counts (mean decrease 0.1 x 106/L) were seen. All changes in haematological variables 
returned to pre-treatment values, usually within 16 weeks of last dose of natalizumab and the changes 
were not associated with clinical symptoms. In post-marketing experience, there have also been 
reports of eosinophilia (eosinophil count >1,500/mm3) without clinical symptoms. In such cases where 
therapy was discontinued the elevated eosinophil levels resolved. 
Thrombocytopenia 
In post-marketing experience, thrombocytopenia and immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) have 
been reported with uncommon frequency. 
Paediatric population 
Serious adverse events were evaluated in 621 MS paediatric patients included in a meta-analysis (see 
also section 5.1). Within the limitations of these data, there were no new safety signals identified in 
this patient population. 1 case of herpes meningitis was reported in the meta-analysis. No cases of 
PML were identified in the meta-analysis, however, PML has been reported in natalizumab-treated 
paediatric patients in the post-marketing setting. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Safety of doses higher than 300 mg has not been adequately evaluated. The maximum amount of 
natalizumab that can be safely administered has not been determined. 
There is no known antidote for natalizumab overdose. Treatment consists of discontinuation of the 
medicinal product and supportive therapy as needed. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: 
L04AA23 
Tyruko is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Natalizumab is a selective adhesion-molecule inhibitor and binds to the α4-subunit of human integrins, 
which is highly expressed on the surface of all leukocytes, with the exception of neutrophils. 
Specifically, natalizumab binds to the α4β1 integrin, blocking the interaction with its cognate receptor, 
vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and ligands osteopontin, and an alternatively spliced 
domain of fibronectin, connecting segment-1 (CS-1). Natalizumab blocks the interaction of α4β7 
integrin with the mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule-1 (MadCAM-1). Disruption of these 
molecular interactions prevents transmigration of mononuclear leukocytes across the endothelium into 
inflamed parenchymal tissue. A further mechanism of action of natalizumab may be to suppress 
ongoing inflammatory reactions in diseased tissues by inhibiting the interaction of α4-expressing 
leukocytes with their ligands in the extracellular matrix and on parenchymal cells. As such, 
natalizumab may act to suppress inflammatory activity present at the disease site, and inhibit further 
recruitment of immune cells into inflamed tissues. 
In MS, lesions are believed to occur when activated T-lymphocytes cross the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB). Leukocyte migration across the BBB involves interaction between adhesion molecules on 
inflammatory cells and endothelial cells of the vessel wall. The interaction between α4β1 and its 
targets is an important component of pathological inflammation in the brain and disruption of these 
interactions leads to reduced inflammation. Under normal conditions, VCAM-1 is not expressed in the 
brain parenchyma. However, in the presence of pro-inflammatory cytokines, VCAM-1 is upregulated 
on endothelial cells and possibly on glial cells near the sites of inflammation. In the setting of central 
nervous system (CNS) inflammation in MS, it is the interaction of α4β1 with VCAM-1, CS-1 and 
osteopontin that mediates the firm adhesion and transmigration of leukocytes into the brain 
parenchyma and may perpetuate the inflammatory cascade in CNS tissue. Blockade of the molecular 
interactions of α4β1 with its targets reduces inflammatory activity present in the brain in MS and 
inhibits further recruitment of immune cells into inflamed tissue, thus reducing the formation or 
enlargement of MS lesions. 
Clinical efficacy 
AFFIRM clinical study 
Efficacy as monotherapy has been evaluated in one randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
study lasting 2 years (AFFIRM study) in RRMS patients who had experienced at least 1 clinical 
relapse during the year prior to entry and had a Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) 
score between 0 and 5. Median age was 37 years, with a median disease duration of 5 years. The 
patients were randomised with a 2:1 ratio to receive natalizumab-300 mg (n = 627) or placebo 
(n = 315) every 4 weeks for up to 30 infusions. Neurological evaluations were performed every 
12 weeks and at times of suspected relapse. MRI evaluations for T1-weighted gadolinium (Gd)-
enhancing lesions and T2-hyperintense lesions were performed annually. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study features and results are presented in the Table 2. 
Table 2.  AFFIRM study: Main features and results 
Design 
Subjects 
Treatment 
One year endpoint 
    Two year endpoint  
Monotherapy; randomised double-blind placebo-controlled    
parallel-group trial for 120 weeks 
RRMS (McDonald criteria) 
Placebo / Natalizumab 300 mg i.v. every 4 weeks 
Relapse rate 
Progression on EDSS 
Subjects 
Randomised 
Completing 1 years  
Completing 2 years  
 Secondary endpoints  Relapse rate derived variables / MRI-derived variables 
Natalizumab 
Placebo 
627 
315 
609 
296 
589 
285 
Age yrs, median (range)  
MS-history yrs, median (range)  
Time since diagnosis, yrs median 
(range) 
Relapses in previous 12 months, 
median (range) 
EDSS-baseline, median (range) 
RESULTS 
Annual relapse rate 
   After one year (primary endpoint) 
After two years  
One year 
Two years 
Relapse free 
After one year 
After two years 
Disability 
Proportion progressed1(12-week 
confirmation; primary outcome) 
Proportion progressed1(24-week 
confirmation) 
MRI (0-2 years) 
Median % change in T2-
hyperintense lesion volume 
Mean number of new or newly-
enlarging T2-hyperintense lesions 
Mean number of T1-hypointense 
lesions 
Mean number of Gd-enhancing 
lesions 
37 (19-50)  
6.0 (0-33)  
2.0 (0-23) 
1.0 (0-5) 
2 (0-6.0) 
0.805 
0.733  
36 (18-50) 
5.0 (0-34) 
2.0 (0-24) 
1.0 (0-12) 
2 (0-6.0) 
0.261 
0.235 
Rate ratio 0.33 CI95% 0.26 ; 0.41 
Rate ratio 0.32 CI95% 0.26 ; 0.40 
53%  
41%  
29% 
76% 
67% 
17% 
Hazard ratio 0.58, CI95% 0.43; 0.73, p<0.001 
23% 
11% 
Hazard ratio 0.46, CI95% 0.33; 0.64, p<0.001 
+8.8% 
11.0 
4.6 
1.2 
-9.4% 
(p<0.001) 
1.9 
(p<0.001) 
1.1 
(p<0.001) 
0.1 
(p<0.001) 
1 Progression of disability was defined as at least a 1.0 point increase on the EDSS from a baseline EDSS >=1.0 sustained 
for 12 or 24 weeks or at least a 1.5 point increase on the EDSS from a baseline EDSS = 0 sustained for 12 or 24 weeks. 
In the sub-group of patients indicated for treatment of rapidly evolving RRMS (patients with 2 or more 
relapses and 1 or more Gd+ lesion), the annualised relapse rate was 0.282 in the natalizumab-treated 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group (n = 148) and 1.455 in the placebo group (n = 61) (p <0.001). Hazard ratio for disability 
progression was 0.36 (95% CI: 0.17, 0.76) p = 0.008. These results were obtained from a post hoc 
analysis and should be interpreted cautiously. No information on the severity of the relapses before 
inclusion of patients in the study is available. 
Natalizumab observational program  
Interim analysis of results (as of May 2015) from an ongoing natalizumab observational program, a 
phase 4, multicentre, single-arm study (n = 5,770) demonstrated that patients switching from beta 
interferon (n = 3,255) or glatiramer acetate (n = 1,384) to natalizumab showed a sustained, significant 
decrease in annualised relapse rate (p <0.0001). Mean EDSS scores remained stable over 5 years. 
Consistent with efficacy results observed for patients switching from beta interferon or glatiramer 
acetate to natalizumab, for patients switching from fingolimod (n = 147) to natalizumab, a significant 
decrease in annualised relapse rate (ARR) was observed, which remained stable over 2 years, and 
mean EDSS scores remained similar from baseline to Year 2. The limited sample size and shorter 
duration of natalizumab exposure for this subgroup of patients should be considered when interpreting 
these data. 
Paediatric population 
A post-marketing meta-analysis was conducted using data from 621 paediatric MS patients treated 
with natalizumab (median age 17 years, range was 7 to 18 years, 91% aged ≥14 years). Within this 
analysis, a limited subset of patients with data available prior to treatment (158 of the 621 patients) 
demonstrated a reduction in ARR from 1.466 (95% CI 1.337, 1.604) prior to treatment to 0.110 
(95% CI 0.094, 0.128). 
Extended interval dosing 
In a pre-specified, retrospective analysis of US anti-JCV antibody positive natalizumab patients 
intravenously administered, the risk of PML was compared between patients treated with the approved 
dosing interval and patients treated with extended interval dosing as identified in the last 18 months of 
exposure (EID, average dosing intervals of approximately 6 weeks). The majority (85%) of patients 
dosed with EID had received the approved dosing for ≥1 year prior to switching to EID. The analysis 
showed a lower risk of PML in patients treated with EID (hazard ratio = 0.06, 95% CI of hazard 
ratio = 0.01 to 0.22).  
Efficacy has been modelled for patients who switch to longer dosing after ≥1 year of approved dosing 
with this medicinal product under intravenous administration and who did not experience a relapse in 
the year prior to switching. Current pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic statistical modelling and 
simulation indicate that the risk of MS disease activity for patients switching to longer dosing intervals 
may be higher for patients with dosing intervals ≥7 weeks. No prospective clinical studies have been 
completed to validate these findings. 
The efficacy of natalizumab when administered with EID has not been established, therefore the 
benefit/risk balance of EID is unknown (see “Intravenous administration Q6W”). 
Intravenous administration Q6W  
Efficacy and safety were evaluated in a prospective, randomized, interventional, controlled, open-
label, rater-blinded, international phase 3 study (NOVA, 101MS329), involving subjects with 
relapsing-remitting MS according to the 2017 McDonald criteria dosed intravenously every six weeks 
with natalizumab. The study was designed to estimate an efficacy difference between Q6W and Q4W 
dosing regimens.  
The study randomized 499 subjects aged 18-60, with an EDSS score ≤ 5.5 at screening, who received 
at least 1 year of natalizumab treatment IV Q4W and were clinically stable (no relapse in the last 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 months, no gadolinium (Gd) enhancing T1 lesions at screening). In the study, subjects who 
switched to Q6W after at least one year of IV Q4W treatment with natalizumab were evaluated in 
relation to subjects who continued on IV Q4W treatment.  
Baseline demographic subgroups of age, sex, duration of natalizumab exposure, country, body weight, 
anti-JCV status and number of relapses in the year prior to the first dose, number of relapses while on 
natalizumab, number of prior DMTs, and type of prior DMT were similar between the Q6W and Q4W 
dosing treatment arms. 
Table 3. NOVA study: Main features and results 
Design 
Subjects 
Treatment administration (part 1) 
Randomized 
RESULTS 
mITTa population for part 1 at week 72 
New/newly enlarging (N/NE) T2 lesions 
from baseline to Week 72  
Monotherapy; phase 3b prospective, randomized, 
interventional, controlled, open-label, rater-blinded, 
international study 
RRMS (McDonald criteria) 
Natalizumab Q4W 
300 mg I.V. 
248 
Natalizumab Q6W 
300 mg I.V. 
251 
242 
247 
Subjects with number of lesions = 0 
= 1 
= 2 
= 3 
= 4 
≥ 5 
missing 
189 (78.1%) 
7 (3.6%) 
1 (0.5%) 
0 
0 
0 
45 (18.6%) 
202 (81.8%) 
5 (2.0%) 
2 (0.8%) 
0 
0 
2* (0.8%) 
36 (14.6%) 
Adjusted mean N/NE T2-hyperintense 
lesions (primary endpoint)* 
95% CIb,c 
0.05 
(0.01, 0.22) 
0.20 
(0.07, 0.63) 
p = 0.0755 
4.1% 
Proportion of subjects that developed  N/NE 
T2 lesions 
Proportion of subjects who developed T1-
hypointense lesions 
Proportion of subjects who developed  Gd-
enhancing lesions 
Adjusted annualized relapse rate 
Proportion of subjects free of relapse** 
Proportion free of 24-week confirmed 
 EDSS worsening 
a mITT population, which included all randomized participants who received at least 1 dose of study treatment 
0.00010 
97.6% 
0.00013 
96.9% 
0.4% 
4.3% 
1.2% 
0.4% 
0.8% 
92% 
90% 
(natalizumab SID or natalizumab EID) and had at least 1 postbaseline result from the following clinical efficacy 
assessments: MRI efficacy assessments, relapses, EDSS, 9-HPT, T25FW, SDMT, TSQM, CGI scale. 
b  Estimated  using  negative  binomial  regression  with  treatment  as  classification  and  baseline  body  weight 
(≤ 80 vs > 80 kg), duration of natalizumab exposure at baseline (≤ 3 vs > 3 years), and region (North America, the UK, 
Europe and Israel, and Australia) as covariates. 
c Observed lesions are included for analysis regardless of intercurrent events, and missing values due to efficacy or safety 
(6 subjects switched to Q4W dosing and 1 subject each on Q6W and Q4W dosing discontinued treatment) are imputed 
by  the  worst  case  of  subjects  on  treatment  at  the  same  visit  in  the  same  treatment  group  or  otherwise via  multiple 
imputation. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. NOVA study: Main features and results 
* The numerical difference seen in the N/NE lesions between the two treatment groups was driven by a high number of 
lesions occurring in two subjects in the Q6W arm – one subject who developed lesions three months after treatment 
discontinuation and a second subject who was diagnosed with  asymptomatic PML at week 72. 
** Relapses – clinical relapses were assessed as defined by new or recurrent neurologic symptoms not 
associated with fever or infection having a minimum duration of 24 hours. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Following the repeat intravenous administration of a 300 mg dose of natalizumab to MS patients, the 
mean maximum observed serum concentration was 110 ± 52 μg/mL. Mean average steady-state 
trough natalizumab concentrations over the dosing period ranged from 23 μg/mL to 29 μg/mL in Q4W 
dosing. At any time, mean trough concentrations for the Q6W regimen were approximately 
60 to 70%  lower than for the Q4W regimen. The predicted time to steady state was approximately 
24 weeks. Population pharmacokinetic analysis includes 12 studies and 1,781 subjects receiving doses 
ranging from 1 to 6 mg/kg and fixed doses of 150/300 mg. 
Distribution 
Median steady-state volume of distribution was 5.96 L (4.59-6.38 L, 95% confidence interval). 
Elimination 
Population median estimate for linear clearance was 6.1 mL/h (5.75-6.33 mL/h, 95% confidence 
interval) and the estimated median half-life was 28.2 days. The 95th percentile interval of the terminal 
half-life is from 11.6 to 46.2 days.  
The population analysis of 1,781 patients explored the effects of selected covariates including body 
weight, age, gender, presence of anti-natalizumab antibodies and formulation on pharmacokinetics. 
Only body weight, the presence of anti-natalizumab antibodies and the formulation used in phase 2 
studies were found to influence natalizumab disposition. Natalizumab clearance increased with body 
weight in a less-than-proportional manner, such that a +/-43% change in body weight resulted in only 
a -33% to 30% change in clearance. The presence of persistent anti-natalizumab antibodies increased 
natalizumab clearance approximately 2.45-fold, consistent with reduced serum natalizumab 
concentrations observed in persistently antibody-positive patients. 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of natalizumab in paediatric MS patients has not been established. 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of natalizumab in patients with renal insufficiency has not been studied. 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of natalizumab in patients with hepatic insufficiency has not been studied. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consistent with the pharmacological activity of natalizumab, altered trafficking of lymphocytes was 
seen as white blood cell increases as well as increased spleen weights in most in vivo studies. These 
changes were reversible and did not appear to have any adverse toxicological consequences. 
In studies conducted in mice, growth and metastasis of melanoma and lymphoblastic leukaemia 
tumour cells was not increased by the administration of natalizumab. 
No clastogenic or mutagenic effects of natalizumab were observed in the Ames or human 
chromosomal aberration assays. Natalizumab showed no effects on in vitro assays of α4-integrin-
positive tumour line proliferation or cytotoxicity. 
Reductions in female guinea pig fertility were observed in one study at doses in excess of the human 
dose; natalizumab did not affect male fertility. 
The effect of natalizumab on reproduction was evaluated in 5 studies, 3 in guinea pigs and 2 in 
cynomolgus monkeys. These studies showed no evidence of teratogenic effects or effects on growth of 
offspring. In one study in guinea pigs, a small reduction in pup survival was noted. In a study in 
monkeys, the number of abortions was doubled in the natalizumab 30 mg/kg treatment groups versus 
matching control groups. This was the result of a high incidence of abortions in treated groups in the 
first cohort that was not observed in the second cohort. No effects on abortion rates were noted in any 
other study. A study in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys demonstrated natalizumab-related changes in 
the foetus that included mild anaemia, reduced platelet counts, increased spleen weights and reduced 
liver and thymus weights. These changes were associated with increased splenic extramedullary 
haematopoiesis, thymic atrophy and decreased hepatic haematopoiesis. Platelet counts were also 
reduced in offspring born to mothers treated with natalizumab until parturition, however there was no 
evidence of anaemia in these offspring. All changes were observed at doses in excess of the human 
dose and were reversed upon clearance of natalizumab. 
In cynomolgus monkeys treated with natalizumab until parturition, low levels of natalizumab were 
detected in the breast milk of some animals. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium chloride 
Histidine  
Histidine monohydrochloride  
Polysorbate 80 (E 433) 
water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
No incompatibilities have been observed with polypropylene syringe, with polyvinyl chloride, 
polyethylene or polypropylene bags, and with polyvinyl chloride or polyurethane infusion lines. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
 3 years 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted solution 
From a microbiological point of view, after dilution with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution 
for injection, immediate use is recommended. If not used immediately, the diluted solution must be 
stored at 2˚C to 8˚C and infused within 24 hours of dilution. In-use storage times and conditions prior 
to use are the responsibility of the user. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2˚C to 8˚C). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
15 mL concentrate in a vial (type I glass) with a stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and a seal (aluminium) 
with a flip-off cap. 
Pack size of one vial per carton. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Instructions for use 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Inspect the vial for particles prior to dilution and administration. If particles are observed and/or 
the liquid in the vial is not colourless, clear to slightly opalescent, the vial must not be used. 
Use aseptic technique when preparing the solution for intravenous (IV) infusion. Remove flip-
off cap from the vial. Insert the syringe needle into the vial through the centre of the rubber 
stopper and remove 15 mL concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Add the 15 mL concentrate for solution for infusion to 100 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection. Gently invert the solution to mix completely. Do not shake. 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products or diluents. 
Visually inspect the diluted medicinal product for particles or discolouration prior to 
administration. Do not use if it is discoloured or if foreign particles are seen. 
The diluted medicinal product is to be used as soon as possible and within 24 hours of dilution. 
If the diluted medicinal product is stored at 2˚C to 8˚C (do not freeze), allow the solution to 
warm to room temperature prior to infusion. 
The diluted solution is to be infused intravenously over 1 hour at a rate of approximately 2 mL 
per minute. 
After the infusion is complete, flush the intravenous line with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection. 
Each vial is for single–use only. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sandoz GmbH 
Biochemiestrasse 10 
6250 Kundl 
Austria 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER  
EU/1/23/1745/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 September 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE   FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY    
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Polpharma Biologics S.A. 
Ul. Trzy Lipy 3  
80-172 Gdańsk 
Poland 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Sandoz GmbH 
Biochemiestrasse 10 
6250 Kundl 
Austria 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of 
new information being received that may lead to a significant change to the 
benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk 
minimisation) milestone being reached. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Based on how patients treated with Tyruko are currently monitored at national level, the MAH shall 
discuss and agree with the National Competent Authorities measures to enhance further this 
monitoring (e.g. registries, post-marketing surveillance studies) as appropriate. The MAH shall 
implement agreed measures for monitoring within a time frame agreed with the National Competent 
Authorities. 
The educational programme is aimed at educating healthcare professionals and patients/carers of the 
potential and risk factors for the development of PML, its diagnosis and treatment, and the 
identification and management of possible sequelae. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Tyruko is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe/use Tyruko have access to/are 
provided with the following educational materials: 
• 
Physician educational materials: 
˗ Summary of Product Characteristics 
˗ Physician Information and Management Guidelines 
• 
Patient information pack: 
˗ Package leaflet 
˗ Patient alert card 
˗ Treatment initiation and treatment continuation forms 
˗ Treatment discontinuation form 
These educational materials shall contain the following key elements: 
Physician Information and Management Guidelines: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Background information on the increased risk of atypical/opportunistic infections, in particular  
PML, which may occur with Tyruko therapy, including a detailed discussion of data (including 
epidemiology, aetiology, and pathology) pertaining to the development of PML in Tyruko- 
treated patients. 
Information relating to the identification of risk factors for Tyruko-associated PML, including  
details of the PML risk estimates algorithm summarising PML risk by risk factor (anti-John 
Cunningham virus [JCV] antibody status, prior IS use, and duration of treatment [by year of 
treatment]), and stratification of this risk by index value when applicable. 
Information on extending the dosing interval for PML risk mitigation, including a reminder 
of the approved dosing schedule.  
Inclusion of monitoring guidance for MRI and anti-JCV antibody based on PML risk, including 
recommended timing, protocols, and interpretation of results. 
Detail regarding the diagnosis of PML, including principals, clinical assessment (including 
MRI and laboratory testing), and differentiation between PML and MS. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Management recommendations in the event of cases of suspected PML, including 
considerations on the effectiveness of PLEX treatment and the management of associated IRIS 
(immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome). 
• 
• 
• 
Detail on the prognosis on PML, including information on improved outcomes observed in 
asymptomatic PML cases. 
A reminder that irrespective of the presence or absence of PML risk factors, heightened clinical 
vigilance for PML should be maintained in all patients treated with Tyruko and for 6 months 
following discontinuation of therapy. 
A reminder on the need to discuss the benefit/risk profile of Tyruko treatment with the patient, 
and the requirement to provide the patient information pack. 
Patient alert card: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reminder to patients to show the card to any doctor and/or caregiver involved with their 
treatment, and to keep the card with them for 6 months after the last dose of Tyruko treatment. 
Reminder to patients to read the package leaflet carefully before starting Tyruko, and not to start 
Tyruko if there is a serious problem with their immune system. 
Reminder to patients no to take any other long-term medicines for MS while receiving Tyruko. 
A description of PML, potential symptoms and management of PML. 
A reminder of where to report side effects. 
Details of the patient, treating doctor and date Tyruko was started. 
Treatment initiation and treatment continuation forms: 
• 
• 
Information on PML and IRIS, including the risk of developing PML during Tyruko treatment 
stratified by prior treatment with immunosuppressants and JCV infection. 
Confirmation that the doctor has discussed the risks of PML and the risk of IRIS if treatment is 
discontinued following suspicion of PML, and confirmation of patient understanding of the risks 
of PML and that they have received a copy of the treatment initiation form and a patient alert 
card. 
• 
Patient details and prescriber name. 
The treatment continuation form should contain the elements of the treatment initiation form and, in 
addition, a statement that the risks of PML increase with duration of treatment and that treatment 
beyond 24 months carries additional risk. 
Treatment discontinuation form 
• 
Information for the patient that PML has been reported up to 6 months after stopping Tyruko, 
and to therefore keep the patient alert card with them after treatment discontinuation. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Reminder of PML symptoms, and when MRI imaging may be warranted. 
Reporting of side effects. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tyruko 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
natalizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each 15 mL vial of concentrate contains 300 mg natalizumab (20 mg/mL). When diluted the solution 
for infusion contains approximately 2.6 mg/mL of natalizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Sodium chloride, Histidine, Histidine monohydrochloride, Polysorbate 80 (E 433) and water for 
injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
concentrate for solution for infusion 
300 mg/15 mL 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
After dilution, do not shake. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sandoz GmbH 
Biochemiestrasse 10 
6250 Kundl 
Austria 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER  
EU/1/23/1745/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTEOF ADMINISTRATION 
Tyruko 300 mg sterile concentrate 
natalizumab 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use after dilution. Do not shake. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
300 mg/15 mL 
6. 
OTHER  
Additional information to appear on the fixed part of the label: 
PC 
Information to appear on peel-off label: 
Tyruko 300 mg 
natalizumab 
15mL 
PC 
EXP 
Lot 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Tyruko 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
natalizumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
In addition to this leaflet you will be given a patient alert card. This contains important safety 
information that you need to know before and during treatment with Tyruko. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet and the patient alert card. You may need to read them again. Keep the leaflet 
and patient alert card with you during treatment and for six months after the last dose of 
thismedicine , as side effects may occur even after you have stopped treatment. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Tyruko is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you receive Tyruko 
3.  How Tyruko is given 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Tyruko 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Tyruko is and what it is used for 
Tyruko is used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS). It contains the active substance natalizumab. This is 
called a monoclonal antibody. 
MS causes inflammation in the brain that damages the nerve cells. This inflammation happens when 
white blood cells get into the brain and spinal cord. This medicine stops the white blood cells getting 
through to the brain. This reduces nerve damage caused by MS. 
Symptoms of multiple sclerosis 
The symptoms of MS vary from patient to patient, and you may experience some or none of them. 
They may include: walking problems, numbness in the face, arms or legs; problems with vision; 
tiredness; feeling off-balance or light headed; bladder and bowel problems; difficulty in thinking and 
concentrating; depression; acute or chronic pain; sexual problems; stiffness and muscle spasms. When 
the symptoms flare up, it is called a relapse (also known as an exacerbation or an attack). When a 
relapse occurs, you may notice the symptoms suddenly, within a few hours, or slowly progressing over 
several days. Your symptoms will then usually improve gradually (this is called a remission). 
How Tyruko can help 
In trials, this medicine approximately halved the build-up of disability caused by MS, and decreased 
the number of MS attacks by about two-thirds. While you are treated with this medicine you might not 
notice any improvement, but it may still be working to prevent your MS becoming worse. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you receive Tyruko 
Before you start treatment with this medicine, it is important that you and your doctor have discussed 
the benefits you could expect to receive from this treatment and the risks that are associated with it. 
You must not be given Tyruko 
• 
If you are allergic to natalizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you have been diagnosed with PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). PML is 
an uncommon infection of the brain. 
If your immune system has a serious problem. This may be due to disease (such as HIV), or to 
a medicine you are taking, or have taken in the past (see below). 
If you are taking medicines that affect your immune system, including certain other 
medicines used to treat MS. These medicines cannot be used with Tyruko. 
If you have cancer (unless it is a type of skin cancer called basal cell carcinoma). 
Warnings and precautions  
You need to discuss with your doctor whether Tyruko is the most suitable treatment for you. Do this 
before you start taking Tyruko, and when you have been receiving Tyruko for more than two years. 
Possible brain infection (PML) 
Some people receiving this medicine (fewer than 1 in 100) have had an uncommon brain infection 
called PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). PML can lead to severe disability or death. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Before starting treatment, all patients will have blood tests arranged by the doctor for JC virus 
infection. JC virus is a common virus that does not normally make you ill. However, PML is 
linked to an increase of JC virus in the brain. The reason for this increase in some patients 
treated with Tyruko is not clear. Before and during treatment, your doctor will test your blood to 
check if you have antibodies to the JC virus, which are a sign that you have been infected by the 
JC virus. 
Your doctor will arrange a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan, which will be repeated 
during treatment to rule out PML. 
The symptoms of PML may be similar to an MS relapse (see section 4, Possible side effects). 
You can also get PML up to 6 months after stopping Tyruko treatment. 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice your MS getting worse, if you notice any 
new symptoms while you are on Tyruko treatment or for up to 6 months afterwards. 
Tell your partner or caregivers about what to look out for (see also section 4, Possible side 
effects). Some symptoms might be difficult to spot by yourself, such as changes in mood or 
behaviour, confusion, speech and communication difficulties. If you get any of these, you may 
need further tests. Keep looking out for symptoms in the 6 months after stopping Tyruko. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep the patient alert card you have been given by your doctor. It includes this information. 
• 
Show it to your partner or caregivers. 
Three things can increase your risk of PML with Tyruko. If you have two or more of these risk 
factors, the risk is increased further: 
• 
• 
• 
If you have antibodies to the JC virus in your blood. These are a sign that the virus is in your 
body. You will be tested before and during Tyruko treatment. 
If you are treated for a long time with Tyruko, especially if it is more than two years. 
If you have taken a medicine called an immunosuppressant, that reduces the activity of your 
immune system. 
Another condition, called JCV GCN (JC virus granule cell neuronopathy), is also caused by JC virus 
and has occurred in some patients receiving Tyruko. The symptoms of JCV GCN are similar to PML. 
For those with a lower risk of PML, your doctor may repeat the test regularly to check that: 
• 
You still do not have antibodies to the JC virus in your blood. 
If you have been treated for more than 2 years, you still have a lower level of JC virus 
• 
antibodies in your blood. 
If someone gets PML 
PML can be treated, and Tyruko treatment will be stopped. However, some people get a reaction as 
Tyruko is removed from the body. This reaction (known as IRIS or immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome) may lead to your condition getting worse, including worsening of brain 
function. 
Look out for other infections 
Some infections other than PML may also be serious and can be due to viruses, bacteria, and other 
causes. 
Tell a doctor or nurse immediately if you think you have an infection (see also section 4, Possible 
side effects). 
Changes in blood platelets 
Natalizumab may reduce platelets in the blood which are responsible for clotting. This may result in a 
condition called thrombocytopenia (see section 4) in which your blood may not clot quickly enough to 
stop bleeding. This can lead to bruising as well as other more serious problems such as excessive 
bleeding. You should talk to your doctor immediately if you have unexplained bruising, red or purple 
spots on the skin (called petechiae), bleeding from skin cuts that does not stop or oozes, prolonged 
bleeding from the gums or nose, blood in urine or stools, or bleeding in the whites of your eyes. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children or adolescents under the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and Tyruko 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
• 
You must not be given this medicine if you are now being treated with medicines that affect 
your immune system, including certain other medicines to treat your MS. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
You might not be able to use this medicine if you have previously had any that affect your 
immune system. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine.  
• 
• 
Do not use this medicine if you are pregnant, unless you have discussed this with your 
doctor. Be sure to tell your doctor immediately if you get pregnant, think you may be pregnant, 
or if you are planning to become pregnant. 
Do not breast-feed whilst using Tyruko. Your doctor will help you decide whether you should 
choose to stop breast-feeding or stop using the medicine. 
The risk to the baby and benefit to the mother will be taken into consideration by your doctor. 
Driving and using machines 
Dizziness is a very common side effect. If you are affected, do not drive or use machines. 
Tyruko contains sodium 
Each vial of this medicine contains 2.3 mmol (or 52 mg) of sodium. After dilution for use, this 
medicinal product contains 17.7 mmol (or 406 mg) sodium per dose. This should be considered if you 
are on a controlled sodium diet. 
3. 
How Tyruko is given 
Tyruko IV infusion will be given to you by a doctor experienced in the treatment of MS. Your doctor 
may switch you directly from another medicine for MS to Tyruko if there are no problems caused by 
your previous treatment. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Your doctor will order blood tests for antibodies to the JC virus and other possible problems. 
Your doctor will arrange an MRI scan, which will be repeated during treatment. 
To switch from some MS medicines, your doctor may advise you to wait for a certain time to 
ensure that most of the previous medicine has left your body. 
For adults the recommended dose is 300 mg, given once every 4 weeks. 
Tyruko must be diluted before it is given to you. It is given as a drip into a vein (by intravenous 
infusion), usually in your arm. This takes about 1 hour. 
Information for medical or healthcare professionals on how to prepare and administer the 
medicine is provided at the end of this leaflet. 
If you stop using Tyruko 
Regular dosing with Tyruko is important, especially in the first few months of treatment. It is 
important to continue with your medicine for as long as you and your doctor decide that it is helping 
you. Patients who received one or two doses of Tyruko, and then had a gap in treatment of three 
months or more, were more likely to have an allergic reaction when restarting treatment. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Checking for allergic reactions 
A few patients have had an allergic reaction to this medicine. Your doctor may check for allergic 
reactions during the infusion and for 1 hour afterwards. See also section 4, Possible side effects. 
If you miss your dose of Tyruko 
If you miss your usual dose of Tyruko, arrange with your doctor to receive it as soon as you can. You 
can then continue to receive your dose of Tyruko every 4 weeks. 
Will Tyruko always work? 
In a few patients receiving Tyruko, the body’s natural defences may stop the medicine from working 
properly over time, as the body develops antibodies to the medicine. Your doctor can decide whether 
this medicine is not working properly for you from blood tests and will stop the treatment, if 
necessary. 
If you have any further questions on Tyruko, ask your doctor. Always use this medicine exactly as 
described in this leaflet or as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not sure. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Speak to your doctor or nurse immediately if you notice any of the following. 
Signs of a brain infection 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Changes in personality and behaviour such as confusion, delirium or loss of consciousness 
Seizures (fits) 
Headache 
Nausea / vomiting 
Stiff neck 
Extreme sensitivity to bright light 
Fever 
Rash (anywhere on the body) 
These symptoms may be caused by an infection of the brain (encephalitis or PML) or its covering 
layer (meningitis). 
Signs of other serious infections 
• 
An unexplained fever 
• 
Severe diarrhoea 
• 
Shortness of breath 
• 
Prolonged dizziness 
• 
Headache 
•  Weight loss 
• 
Listlessness 
• 
Impaired vision 
• 
Pain or redness of the eye(s) 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signs of an allergic reaction 
• 
Itchy rash (hives) 
• 
Swelling of your face, lips or tongue 
• 
Difficulty breathing 
• 
Chest pain or discomfort 
• 
Increase or decrease in your blood pressure (your doctor or nurse will notice this if they are 
monitoring your blood pressure) 
These are most likely during or shortly after the infusion. 
Signs of a possible liver problem 
• 
• 
• 
Yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes 
Unusual darkening of the urine 
Abnormal liver function test 
Speak to a doctor or nurse immediately if you get any of the side effects listed above, or if you think 
you have an infection. Show your patient alert card and this package leaflet to any doctor or nurse 
who treats you, not only to your neurologist. 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Urinary tract infection 
Sore throat and runny or blocked up nose 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Feeling sick (nausea) 
Joint pain 
Tiredness 
Dizziness, feeling sick (nausea), itching and chills during or shortly after infusion 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Anaemia (decrease in your red blood cells which can make your skin pale and can make you 
feel breathless or lacking energy) 
Allergy (hypersensitivity) 
Shivering 
Itchy rash (hives) 
Being sick (vomiting) 
Fever 
Difficulty breathing (dyspnoea) 
Reddening of the face or body (flushing) 
Herpes infections 
Discomfort around the place you have had your infusion. You could experience bruising, 
redness, pain, itching or swelling 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Severe allergy (anaphylactic reaction) 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Inflammatory disorder after discontinuation of the medicinal product 
Facial swelling 
An increase in the number of white blood cells (eosinophilia) 
Reduction in blood platelets 
Easy bruising (purpura) 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
Herpes infection in the eye 
• 
Severe anaemia (decrease in your red blood cells which can make your skin pale and can make 
you feel breathless or lacking energy). 
Severe swelling under the skin 
High levels of bilirubin in the blood (hyperbilirubinaemia) which may cause symptoms such as 
yellowing of your eyes or skin, fever and tiredness 
• 
• 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
Unusual infections (so-called “opportunistic infections”) 
• 
Damage to your liver 
Speak to your doctor as soon as possible if you think you have an infection. 
You will also find this information in the patient alert card you have been given by your doctor. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tyruko 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Unopened vial: 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Diluted solution: 
After dilution, immediate use is recommended. If not used immediately, the diluted solution must be 
stored at 2˚C to 8˚C and infused within 24 hours of dilution. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice particles in the liquid and/or the liquid in the vial is discoloured. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Tyruko contains  
The active substance is natalizumab. Each 15 mL vial of concentrate contains 300 mg natalizumab 
(20 mg/mL). When diluted, the solution for infusion contains approximately 2.6 mg per mL of 
natalizumab. 
The other ingredients are: 
Sodium chloride (see section 2 ‘Tyruko contains sodium’) 
Histidine 
Histidine monohydrochloride Polysorbate 80 (E 433) 
water for injections 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Tyruko looks like and contents of the pack 
Tyruko is a colourless, clear to slightly opalescent solution (sterile concentrate). 
Each carton contains one glass vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Sandoz GmbH 
Biochemiestrasse 10 
6250 Kundl 
Austria 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
1.  
2.  
3.  
4.  
5.  
6.  
7. 
8.  
Inspect the Tyruko vial for particles prior to dilution and administration. If particles are 
observed and/or the liquid in the vial is not colourless, clear to slightly opalescent, the vial 
must not be used. 
Use aseptic technique when preparing the medicine. Remove flip-top from the vial. Insert the 
syringe needle into the vial through the centre of the rubber stopper and remove 15 mL 
concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Add the 15 mL concentrate for solution for infusion to 100 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection. Gently invert the solution to mix completely. Do not shake. 
Tyruko must not be mixed with other medicinal products or diluents. 
Visually inspect the diluted medicinal product for particles or discolouration prior to 
administration. Do not use if it is discoloured or if foreign particles are seen. 
The diluted medicinal product is to be used as soon as possible and within 24 hours of 
dilution. If the diluted medicinal product is stored at 2 to 8°C (do not freeze), allow the 
solution to warm to room temperature prior to infusion. 
The diluted solution is to be infused intravenously over 1 hour at a rate of approximately 2 mL 
per minute. 
After the infusion is complete, flush the intravenous line with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection. 
9.  
Each vial is for single-use only. 
10.  
11.  
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with 
local requirements. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
