Summary of the risk management plan for Tyruko (natalizumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tyruko. The RMP details 
important  risks  of  Tyruko,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  Tyruko's  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Tyruko's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Tyruko should 
be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Tyruko  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Tyruko's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Tyruko  is  authorised  for  use  as  a  single  disease  modifying  therapy  (DMT)  in  adult 
patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) (see SmPC 
for the full indication). It contains natalizumab as the active substance and it is given 
by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Tyruko’s benefits can be found in Tyruko’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under 
the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/tyruko 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimize  or 
further characterize the risks 
Important  risks  of  Tyruko  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about these risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, 
in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In  the  case  of  Tyruko,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk 
minimization measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate 
action  can  be 
routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
II.A: List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Tyruko are risks that need special risk management  activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified 
risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Tyruko. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is 
possible based on  available  data,  but  this association  has not  been  established yet 
and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on 
the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified 
risks 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Serious herpes infections 
Important potential 
risks 
Missing information 
Malignancies 
PML risk following switch from disease modifying 
therapies with immunosuppressant effect 
II B: Summary of important risks 
Important  identified  risk:  Progressive  multifocal  leukoencephalopathy 
(PML) 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Use of natalizumab has been associated with the 
uncommon event of PML, which may be fatal or result in 
severe disability. PML has been classified as an important 
identified risk for Tyruko, consistent with the reference 
product, Tysabri. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
The following risk factors are associated with an increased 
risk of PML: 
•  The presence of anti-JCV antibodies. 
•  Treatment duration, especially beyond 2 years. After 2 
years all patients should be re-informed about the risk 
of PML with the medicinal product.  
 
•  Immunosuppressant use prior to receiving the 
medicinal product. 
Patients who are anti-JCV antibody positive are at an 
increased risk of developing PML compared to patients 
who are anti-JCV antibody negative. Patients who have all 
three risk factors for PML (i.e., are anti-JCV antibody 
positive and have received more than 2 years of therapy 
with this medicinal product and have received prior 
immunosuppressant therapy) have a significantly higher 
risk of PML.  
In anti-JCV antibody positive natalizumab treated patients 
who have not used prior immunosuppressants the level of 
anti-JCV antibody response is associated with the level of 
risk for PML. 
Anti-JCV antibody negative patients may still be at risk of 
PML for reasons such as a new JCV infection, fluctuating 
antibody status or a false negative test result. 
Patients who test as positive for anti-JCV antibodies at 
any time should be considered to be at an increased risk 
for developing PML, independent from any prior or 
subsequent antibody test results. 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Information in SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1; 
and PL Sections 2 and 4 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Educational tools for HCPs (Physician Information and 
Management Guideline) 
Educational tools for patients/carers (patient alert card,  
treatment initiation form, treatment continuation form, 
and treatment discontinuation form) 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Important identified risk: Serious herpes infections 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Serious herpes infections has been classified as an 
important identified risk for Tyruko, consistent with the 
reference product, Tysabri. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
None identified for natalizumab. 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Information in SmPC Sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.8; and PL 
Sections 2 and 4 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription 
 
Important potential risk: Malignancies 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Malignancies have been classified as an important 
potential risk for Tyruko, consistent with the reference 
product, Tysabri. Malignancies were included as an 
important potential risk for Tysabri based on the class of 
product and on the scientific literature. There is currently 
no evidence to suggest an increased risk for malignancy 
associated with long-term natalizumab therapy, however, 
observation over longer treatment periods is required 
before any effect of natalizumab on malignancies can be 
excluded. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
No risk groups or risk factors have been identified. 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Information in SmPC Sections 4.3 and 4.8; and PL Section 
2 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription   
Missing  information:  PML  risk  following  switch  from  disease  modifying 
therapies with immunosuppressant effect 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Information in SmPC Section 4.4 and PL Section 2. 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription 
II C: Post-authorization development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Tyruko. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
There are no studies required for Tyruko. 
 
 
 
