27 June 2013 
EMA/178698/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Tysabri 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: natalizumab 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000603/PSUV/0062 
Period covered by the PSUR:  24.05.2012 - 23.11.2012 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Tysabri, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
The  risk  stratification  algorithm  for  progressive  multifocal  leukoencephalopathy  (PML)  was  updated 
within the PSUR procedure. Regarding the estimated PML incidence stratified by the three risk factors 
(presence of anti-JCV antibodies, longer treatment duration, immunosuppressant use prior to receiving 
Tysabri), the PML risk estimates included in this PSUR were similar to the PML risk estimates included 
in  the  prior  PSUR.  Regarding  prior  use  of  an  immunosuppressant  (IS)  therapy  as  a  risk  factor  for 
developing PML, the available data on the wash-out period between the last dose of IS therapy and the 
start  of  Tysabri  are  limited  and  do  not  permit  to  draw  clear  conclusions  on  the  nature  of  prior  IS 
therapy/  duration  of  wash-out  period  and  the  associated  PML  risk.  Following  a  request  for 
supplementary information, the MAH provided a Kaplan-Meier analysis of PML risk using data from the 
STRATIFY-2  study.  The  risk  to  develop  PML  increases  in  the  subjects  with  prior  IS  significantly  once 
treatment  duration  of  approximately  48  months  is  exceeded.  However,  the  fact,  that  the  type  of  IS 
and the treatment free period between stopping IS and commencing Tysabri treatment is not included 
in  this  risk  calculation  of  the  PML  risk  assessment  could  also  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  prior  IS 
therapy is not a risk factor and rather a confounding factor for patients to be treated with Tysabri. The 
MAH  is  therefore  asked  to  comment  on  the  validity  and  robustness  of  this  factor  for  the  PML  risk 
assessment.  Within  the  STRATIFY-2  study,  the  overall  PML  incidence  using  all  PML  cases  and  all 
Tysabri-treated patients as of February 2013 is 45/23,782 or 1.89/1,000, which is generally consistent 
with the overall PML incidence estimate in Tysabri-treated MS patients in the United States (US). The 
PRAC considered these preliminary data reassuring and recommended that such a presentation should 
be included in future PSURs.  
Concerning  JCV  serology,  a  recently  published  study  (Berger  et  al,  2013)  found  a  considerable 
proportion  of  false  negative  results  of  the  JCV  serum  antibody  test.  From  the  MAH  viewpoint,  the 
published data from Berger et al may overestimate the false negative rate due to the small number of 
study  subjects  used  in  the  analysis.  Although  the  PRAC  agreed  that  this  could  be  a  reasonable 
explanation,  the  sensitivity  of  the  ELISA  (Enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay)  tests  used  in  the 
analysis  of  specimens  from  subjects  enrolled  in  STRATIFY-  1,  AFFIRM/STRATA  studies  may  not  be 
comparable  with the ELISA tests used by Berger  et. al. in subjects enrolled in STRATIFY-2 study and 
hence,  the  PRAC  is  of  the  concern  that  a  discrepancy  in  the  true  false  negative  rate  could 
underestimate the risk to develop PML in the JCV seronegative tested individuals treated with Tysabri. 
In  addition,  on  the  basis  of  data  from  STRATIFY-1  (over  18  months),  AFFIRM  (over  30  months)  and 
STRATA  (over  approximately  6  years)  studies  and  other  publication  (Trampe  et  al.,  2012),  the  PRAC 
concluded  that  there  is  evidence  that  anti-JCV  antibody  prevalence  increases  significantly  over  time, 
which in turn would raise the question whether this increase was due to recent new infections or if it 
was a sign of fluctuations in serostatus. The latter indeed could indicate a change in the viral load or a 
change in the site of viral infections. However, if the observed increase in anti-JCV prevalence was not 
due to de-novo infections, it must be assumed that the false-negative rate of the assay among latently 
infected individuals would be much higher than estimated so far, thus questioning the sensitivity of the 
anti-JCV antibody assay (ELISA) test and its relevance for a reliable inclusion of test results in the risk 
assessment for developing PML. 
Therefore, the PRAC recommended an update of section 4.4 of the Summary of Product Characteristics 
to include a statement that anti-JCV antibody negative patients may still be at risk of PML for reasons 
such as a new JCV infection, fluctuating antibody status or a false negative test result. 
Tysabri  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, a re-evaluation of the risk algorithm used for PML should be presented in the next PSUR. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Tysabri, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance natalizumab is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
Tysabri  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
