ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tysabri 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of concentrate contains 20 mg of natalizumab. 
When diluted (see section 6.6), the solution for infusion contains approximately 2.6 mg per mL of 
natalizumab. 
Natalizumab is a recombinant humanised anti-α4-integrin antibody produced in a murine cell line by 
recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each vial contains 2.3 mmol (or 52 mg) sodium  (see section 4.4 for further information). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Colourless, clear to slightly opalescent solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Tysabri is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in adults with highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) for the following patient groups: 
•  Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy (DMT) (for exceptions and information about washout periods 
see sections 4.4 and 5.1)  
or 
•  Patients with rapidly evolving severe RRMS defined by 2 or more disabling relapses in one 
year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
(MRI) or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy is to be initiated and continuously supervised by specialised physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of neurological conditions, in centres with timely access to MRI.  
Patients treated with this medicinal product must be given the patient alert card and be informed about 
the risks of the medicinal product (see also package leaflet). After 2 years of treatment, patients should 
be re-informed about the risks, especially the increased risk of Progressive Multifocal 
Leukoencephalopathy (PML), and should be instructed together with their caregivers on early signs 
and symptoms of PML. 
Resources for the management of hypersensitivity reactions and access to MRI should be available. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Some patients may have been exposed to immunosuppressive medicinal products (e.g. mitoxantrone, 
cyclophosphamide, azathioprine). These medicinal products have the potential to cause prolonged 
immunosuppression, even after dosing is discontinued. Therefore the physician must confirm that such 
patients are not immunocompromised before starting treatment  (see section 4.4). 
Posology 
Tysabri 300 mg is administered by intravenous infusion once every 4 weeks. 
Continued therapy must be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic 
benefit beyond 6 months.  
Data on the safety and efficacy of natalizumab at 2 years were generated from controlled, double–
blind studies. After 2 years continued therapy should be considered only following a reassessment of 
the potential for benefit and risk. Patients should be re-informed about the risk factors for PML, like 
duration of treatment, immunosuppressant use prior to receiving the medicinal product and the 
presence of anti-John Cunningham virus (JCV) antibodies (see section 4.4). 
Readministration 
The efficacy of re-administration has not been established (for safety see section 4.4). 
Special populations  
Elderly 
This medicinal product is not recommended for use in patients aged over 65 due to a lack of data in 
this population. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Studies have not been conducted to examine the effects of renal or hepatic impairment. 
The mechanism for elimination and results from population pharmacokinetics suggest that dose 
adjustment would not be necessary in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of this medicinal product in children and adolescents up to 18 years have not 
been established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1.  
Method of administration 
This medicinal product is for intravenous use. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration (see section 6.6). 
After dilution (see section 6.6), the infusion is to be administered over approximately 1 hour and 
patients are to be observed during the infusion and for 1 hour after the completion of the infusion for 
signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions. 
After the first 12 intravenous Tysabri doses, patients should continue to be observed during infusion. 
If the patients have not experienced any infusion reactions, the post dose observation time may be 
reduced or removed according to clinical judgement. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients restarting natalizumab treatment after a treatment gap ≥ 6 months are to be observed during 
the infusion and for 1 hour after the completion of the infusion for signs and symptoms of 
hypersensitivity reactions for the first 12 intravenous infusions after restarting therapy. 
Tysabri 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion must not be administered
as a bolus injection. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Patients with increased risk for opportunistic infections, including immunocompromised patients 
(including those currently receiving immunosuppressive therapies or those immunocompromised by 
prior therapies (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Combination with other DMTs. 
Known active malignancies, except for patients with cutaneous basal cell carcinoma. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability  
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Use of this medicinal product has been associated with an increased risk of PML, an opportunistic 
infection caused by JC virus, which may be fatal or result in severe disability. Due to this increased 
risk of developing PML, the benefits and risks of treatment should be individually reconsidered by the 
specialist physician and the patient; patients must be monitored at regular intervals throughout and 
should be instructed together with their caregivers on early signs and symptoms of PML. JC virus also 
causes JCV granule cell neuronopathy (GCN) which has been reported in patients treated with this 
medicinal product. Symptoms of JCV GCN are similar to symptoms of PML (i.e. cerebellar 
syndrome). 
The following risk factors are associated with an increased risk of PML: 
•  The presence of anti-JCV antibodies. 
•  Treatment duration, especially beyond 2 years. After 2 years all patients should be re-informed 
about the risk of PML with the medicinal product.  
•  Immunosuppressant use prior to receiving the medicinal product. 
Patients who are anti-JCV antibody positive are at an increased risk of developing PML compared to 
patients who are anti-JCV antibody negative. Patients who have all three risk factors for PML (i.e., are 
anti-JCV antibody positive and have received more than 2 years of therapy with this medicinal 
product and have received prior immunosuppressant therapy) have a significantly higher risk of PML.  
In anti-JCV antibody positive natalizumab treated patients who have not used prior 
immunosuppressants the level of anti-JCV antibody response (index) is associated with the level of 
risk for PML.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In anti-JCV antibody positive patients, extended interval dosing of Tysabri (average dosing interval of 
approximately 6 weeks) is suggested to be associated with a lower PML risk compared to approved 
dosing. If utilising extended interval dosing, caution is required because the efficacy of extended 
interval dosing has not been established and the associated benefit/risk balance is currently unknown 
(see section 5.1, Intravenous administration Q6W). For further information, refer to the Physician 
Information and Management Guidelines. 
Patients considered at high risk treatment with this treatment should only be continued if the benefits 
outweigh the risks. For the estimation of PML risk in the different patient subgroups, please refer to 
the Physician Information and Management Guidelines. 
Anti-JCV antibody testing 
Anti-JCV antibody testing provides supportive information for risk stratification of treatment with this 
medicinal product. Testing for serum anti-JCV antibody prior to initiating therapy or in patients 
receiving the medicinal product with an unknown antibody status is recommended. Anti-JCV antibody 
negative patients may still be at risk of PML for reasons such as a new JCV infection, fluctuating 
antibody status or a false negative test result. Re-testing of anti-JCV antibody negative patients every 6 
months is recommended. Retesting low index patients who have no history of prior 
immunosuppressant use every 6 months once they reach the 2 year treatment point is recommended.  
The anti-JCV antibody assay (ELISA) should not be used to diagnose PML. Use of 
plasmapheresis/plasma exchange (PLEX) or intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) can affect 
meaningful interpretation of serum anti-JCV antibody testing. Patients should not be tested for anti-
JCV antibodies within 2 weeks of PLEX due to removal of antibodies from the serum, or within 6 
months of IVIg (i.e. 6 months = 5x half-life for immunoglobulins).    
For further information on anti-JCV antibody testing please see Physician Information and 
Management Guidelines. 
MRI screening for PML 
Before initiation of treatment with this medicinal product, a recent (usually within 3 months) MRI 
should be available as a reference, and be repeated at least on a yearly basis. More frequent MRIs (e.g. 
on a 3 to 6 monthly basis) using an abbreviated protocol should be considered for patients at higher 
risk of PML. This includes: 
•  Patients who have all three risk factors for PML (i.e., are anti-JCV antibody positive and have 
received more than 2 years of  therapy with this medicinal product and have received prior 
immunosuppressant therapy),  
or 
•  Patients with a high anti-JCV antibody index who have received more than 2 years of therapy 
with this medicinal product and without prior history of immunosuppressant therapy.  
Current evidence suggests that the risk of PML is low at an index equal to or below 0.9 and increases 
substantially above 1.5 for patients who have been on treatment with this medicinal product for longer 
than 2 years (see the Physician Information and Management Guidelines for further information). 
No studies have been performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of natalizumab when switching 
patients from DMTs with an immunosuppressant effect. It is unknown if patients switching from these 
therapies to this treatment have an increased risk of PML, therefore these patients should be monitored 
more frequently (i.e. similarly to patients switching from immunosuppressants to natalizumab). 
PML should be considered as a differential diagnosis in any MS patient taking Tysabri presenting with 
neurological symptoms and/or new brain lesions in MRI. Cases of asymptomatic PML based on MRI 
and positive JCV DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid have been reported.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Physicians should refer to the Physician Information and Management Guidelines for further 
information on managing the risk of PML in natalizumab-treated patients. 
If PML or JCV GCN is suspected, further dosing must be suspended until PML has been 
excluded.  
The clinician should evaluate the patient to determine if the symptoms are indicative of neurological 
dysfunction and, if so, whether these symptoms are typical of MS or possibly suggestive of PML or 
JCV GCN. If any doubt exists, further evaluation, including MRI scan preferably with contrast 
(compared with pre-treatment baseline MRI), CSF testing for JC Viral DNA and repeat neurological 
assessments, should be considered as described in the Physician Information and Management 
Guidelines (see Educational guidance). Once the clinician has excluded PML and/or JCV GCN (if 
necessary, by repeating clinical, imaging and/or laboratory investigations if clinical suspicion 
remains), dosing may resume. 
The physician should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML or JCV GCN that the 
patient may not notice (e.g. cognitive, psychiatric symptoms or cerebellar syndrome). Patients should 
also be advised to inform their partner or caregivers about their treatment, since they may notice 
symptoms that the patient is not aware of. 
PML has been reported following discontinuation of this medicinal product in patients who did not 
have findings suggestive of PML at the time of discontinuation. Patients and physicians should 
continue to follow the same monitoring protocol and be alert for any new signs or symptoms that may 
be suggestive of PML for approximately 6 months following discontinuation of TYSABRI. 
If a patient develops PML the dosing of natalizumab must be permanently discontinued. 
Following reconstitution of the immune system in immunocompromised patients with PML improved 
outcome has been seen.  
Based on a retrospective analysis of natalizumab-treated patients since its approval, no difference was 
observed on 2-year survival after PML diagnosis between patients who received PLEX and those who 
did not. For other considerations on the management of PML, see the Physician Information and 
Management Guidelines. 
PML and IRIS (Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome) 
IRIS occurs in almost all PML patients treated with this medicinal product after withdrawal or 
removal of the medicinal product. IRIS is thought to result from the restoration of immune function in 
patients with PML, which can lead to serious neurological complications and may be fatal. Monitoring 
for development of IRIS and appropriate treatment of the associated inflammation during recovery 
from PML should be undertaken (see the Physician Information and Management Guidelines for 
further information). 
Infections including other opportunistic infections 
Other opportunistic infections have been reported with use of this medicinal product, primarily in 
patients with Crohn’s disease who were immunocompromised or where significant co-morbidity 
existed, however increased risk of other opportunistic infections with use of the medicinal product in 
patients without these co-morbidities cannot currently be excluded. Opportunistic infections were also 
detected in MS patients treated with this medicinal product as a monotherapy (see section 4.8). 
This treatment increases the risk of developing encephalitis and meningitis caused by herpes simplex 
and varicella zoster viruses. Serious, life-threatening, and sometimes fatal cases have been reported in 
the postmarketing setting in multiple sclerosis patients receiving the treatment (see section 4.8). If 
herpes encephalitis or meningitis occurs, the medicinal product should be discontinued, and 
appropriate treatment for herpes encephalitis or meningitis should be administered. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acute retinal necrosis (ARN) is a rare fulminant viral infection of the retina caused by the family of 
herpes viruses (e.g. varicella zoster). ARN has been observed in patients being administered this 
medicinal product and can be potentially blinding. Patients presenting with eye symptoms such as 
decreased visual acuity, redness and painful eye should be referred for retinal screening for ARN. 
Following clinical diagnosis of ARN, discontinuation of this medicinal product should be considered 
in these patients. 
Prescribers should be aware of the possibility that other opportunistic infections may occur during 
therapy and should include them in the differential diagnosis of infections that occur in 
natalizumab-treated patients. If an opportunistic infection is suspected, dosing is to be suspended until 
such infections can be excluded through further evaluations. 
If a patient receiving this medicinal product develops an opportunistic infection, dosing of the 
medicinal product must be permanently discontinued. 
Educational guidance 
All physicians who intend to prescribe the medicinal product must ensure they are familiar with the 
Physician Information and Management Guidelines. 
Physicians must discuss the benefits and risks of natalizumab therapy with the patient and provide 
them with a patient alert card. Patients should be instructed that if they develop any infection then they 
should inform their physician that they are being treated with this medicinal product. 
Physicians should counsel patients on the importance of uninterrupted dosing, particularly in the early 
months of treatment (see hypersensitivity). 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity reactions have been associated with this medicinal product, including serious 
systemic reactions (see section 4.8). These reactions usually occurred during the infusion or up to 
1 hour after completion of the infusion. The risk for hypersensitivity was greatest with early infusions 
and in patients re-exposed to treatment following an initial short exposure (one or two infusions) and 
extended period (three months or more) without treatment. However, the risk of hypersensitivity 
reactions should be considered for every infusion administered. 
Patients are to be observed during the infusion and for 1 hour after the completion of the infusion (see 
section 4.8). Resources for the management of hypersensitivity reactions should be available. 
This product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy initiated at the first symptoms or signs of 
hypersensitivity. 
Patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction must be permanently discontinued from 
treatment with natalizumab. 
Concurrent treatment with immunosuppressants 
The safety and efficacy of this medicinal product in combination with other immunosuppressive and 
antineoplastic therapies have not been fully established. Concurrent use of these agents with this 
medicinal product may increase the risk of infections, including opportunistic infections, and is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
In phase 3 MS clinical trials with natalizumab intravenous infusion, concomitant treatment of relapses 
with a short course of corticosteroids was not associated with an increased rate of infection. Short 
courses of corticosteroids can be used in combination with this medicinal product. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior treatment with immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapies  
Patients with a treatment history of immunosuppressant medications are at increased risk for PML. 
No studies have been performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the medicinal product when 
switching patients from DMTs with an immunosuppressant effect. It is unknown if patients switching 
from these therapies to this medicinal product have an increased risk of PML, therefore these patients 
should be monitored more frequently (i.e. similarly to patients switching from immunosuppressants to 
this medicinal product, see MRI screening for PML). 
Care should be taken with patients who have previously received immunosuppressants to allow 
sufficient time for immune function recovery to occur. Physicians must evaluate each individual case 
to determine whether there is evidence of an immunocompromised state prior to commencing 
treatment (see section 4.3). 
When switching patients from another DMT to this medicinal product, the half-life and mode of action 
of the other therapy must be considered in order to avoid an additive immune effect whilst at the same 
time minimising the risk of disease reactivation. A Complete Blood Count (CBC, including 
lymphocytes) is recommended prior to initiating treatment to ensure that immune effects of the 
previous therapy (i.e. cytopenia) have resolved.  
Patients can switch directly from beta interferon or glatiramer acetate to natalizumab providing there 
are no signs of relevant treatment-related abnormalities e.g. neutropenia and, lymphopenia.  
When switching from dimethyl fumarate, the washout period should be sufficient for lymphocyte 
count to recover before treatment is started. 
Following discontinuation of fingolimod, lymphocyte count progressively returns to normal range 
within 1 to 2 months after stopping therapy. The washout period should be sufficient for lymphocyte 
count to recover before treatment is started. 
Teriflunomide is eliminated slowly from the plasma. Without an accelerated elimination procedure, 
clearance of teriflunomide from plasma can take from several months up to 2 years. An accelerated 
elimination procedure as defined in the teriflunomide Summary of Product Characteristics is 
recommended or alternatively washout period should not be shorter than 3.5 months. Caution 
regarding potential concomitant immune effects is required when switching patients from 
teriflunomide to this medicinal product. 
Alemtuzumab has profound prolonged immunosuppressive effects. As the actual duration of these 
effects is unknown, initiating treatment with this medicinal product after alemtuzumab is not 
recommended unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks for the individual patient. 
Immunogenicity 
Disease exacerbations or infusion related events may indicate the development of antibodies against 
natalizumab. In these cases the presence of antibodies should be evaluated and if these remain positive 
in a confirmatory test after at least 6 weeks, treatment should be discontinued, as persistent antibodies 
are associated with a substantial decrease in efficacy of this medicinal product and an increased 
incidence of hypersensitivity reactions (see section 4.8). 
Since patients who have received an initial short exposure to this medicinal product and then had an 
extended period without treatment are at a higher risk of developing anti-natalizumab antibodies 
and/or hypersensitivity upon redosing, the presence of antibodies should be evaluated and if these 
remain positive in a confirmatory test after at least 6 weeks, the patient should not receive further 
treatment with natalizumab (see section 5.1). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic events 
Spontaneous serious adverse reactions of liver injury have been reported during the post-marketing 
phase (see section 4.8). These liver injuries may occur at any time during treatment, even after the first 
dose. In some instances, the reaction reoccurred when treatment was reintroduced. Some patients with 
a past medical history of an abnormal liver test have experienced an exacerbation of abnormal liver 
test while on treatment. Patients should be monitored as appropriate for impaired liver function, and be 
instructed to contact their physician in case signs and symptoms suggestive of liver injury occur, such 
as jaundice and vomiting. In cases of significant liver injury this medicinal product should be 
discontinued. 
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia, including immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), has been reported with the 
use of natalizumab. Delay in the diagnosis and treatment of thrombocytopenia may lead to serious and 
life-threatening sequelae. Patients should be instructed to report to their physician immediately if they 
experience any signs of unusual or prolonged bleeding, petechiae, or spontaneous bruising. If 
thrombocytopenia is identified, discontinuation of natalizumab should be considered. 
Stopping therapy 
If a decision is made to stop treatment with natalizumab, the physician needs to be aware that 
natalizumab remains in the blood, and has pharmacodynamic effects (e.g increased lymphocyte 
counts) for approximately 12 weeks following the last dose. Starting other therapies during this 
interval will result in a concomitant exposure to natalizumab. For medicinal products such as 
interferon and glatiramer acetate, concomitant exposure of this duration was not associated with safety 
risks in clinical trials. No data are available in MS patients regarding concomitant exposure with 
immunosuppressant medication. Use of these medicinal products soon after the discontinuation of 
natalizumab may lead to an additive immunosuppressive effect. This should be carefully considered 
on a case-by-case basis, and a wash-out period of natalizumab might be appropriate. Short courses of 
steroids used to treat relapses were not associated with increased infections in clinical trials. 
Sodium content 
Before dilution, this medicinal product contains 52 mg sodium per vial of medicinal product, 
equivalent to 2.6% of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Natalizumab is contraindicated in combination with other DMTs (see section 4.3). 
Immunisations 
In a randomised, open label study of 60 patients with relapsing MS there was no significant difference 
in the humoral immune response to a recall antigen (tetanus toxoid) and only slightly slower and 
reduced humoral immune response to a neoantigen (keyhole limpet haemocyanin) was observed in 
patients who were treated with this medicinal product for 6 months compared to an untreated control 
group. Live vaccines have not been studied. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential  
If a woman becomes pregnant while taking this medicinal product, discontinuation should be 
considered. A benefit/risk evaluation of the use of this medicinal product during pregnancy should 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
take into account the patient’s clinical condition and the possible return of disease activity after 
stopping the medicinal product. 
Pregnancy 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
Data from clinical trials, a prospective pregnancy registry, post-marketing cases and available 
literature do not suggest an effect of natalizumab exposure on pregnancy outcomes. 
The completed prospective Tysabri pregnancy registry contained 355 pregnancies with available 
outcomes. There were 316 live births, 29 of which were reported to have birth defects. Sixteen of the 
29 were classified as major defects. The rate of defects corresponds to the defect rates reported in 
other pregnancy registries involving MS patients. There is no evidence of a specific pattern of birth 
defects with this medicinal product. 
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of natalizumab therapy in pregnant women.  
Thrombocytopenia and anaemia in infants born to women exposed to natalizumab during pregnancy 
were reported in the postmarketing setting. Monitoring of platelet counts and haemoglobin is 
recommended in neonates born to women exposed to natalizumab during pregnancy.  
This drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. If a woman becomes pregnant 
while taking natalizumab, discontinuation of natalizumab should be considered. 
Breast-feeding 
Natalizumab is excreted in human milk. The effect of natalizumab on newborn/infants is unknown. 
Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with  natalizumab. 
Fertility 
Reductions in female guinea pig fertility were observed in one study at doses in excess of the human 
dose; natalizumab did not affect male fertility. It is considered unlikely that natalizumab will affect 
fertility performance in humans following the maximum recommended dose.  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tysabri has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness may occur following 
administration of this medicinal product (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In placebo-controlled trials in 1,617 MS patients treated with natalizumab for up to 2 years (placebo: 
1,135), adverse events leading to discontinuation of therapy occurred in 5.8% of patients treated with 
natalizumab (placebo: 4.8%). Over the 2-year duration of the studies, 43.5% of patients treated with 
natalizumab reported adverse reactions (placebo: 39.6%).  
In clinical trials in 6786 patients treated with natalizumab (intravenous infusion and subcutaneous 
injection), the most frequently occurring adverse reactions were headache (32%), nasopharyngitis 
(27%), fatigue (23%), urinary tract infection (16%), nausea (15%), arthralgia (14%), and dizziness 
(11%) associated with natalizumab administration.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions arising from clinical studies, post-authorisation safety studies and spontaneous 
reports are presented in Table 1, below. Within the system organ classes they are listed under the 
following headings: Very common (≥1/10); Common (≥1/100 to <1/10); Uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100); Rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); Very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse reactions  
MedDRA 
System Organ 
Class 
Infections and 
infestations  
Very Common 
Common 
Nasopharyngitis  
Urinary tract 
infection  
Herpes 
infection 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
Rare  
Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy 
Herpes ophthalmic 
Not known 
Meningoencephalitis 
herpetic  
JC virus granule 
cell neuropathy  
Necrotising 
herpetic retinopathy 
Immune system 
disorders  
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system disorders  
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
Investigations  
Injury, 
poisoning and 
procedural 
complications  
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Hypersensitivity  Anaphylactic 
reaction 
Immune 
reconstitution 
inflammatory 
syndrome  
Thrombocytopenia, 
Immune 
thrombocytopenic 
purpura (ITP) 
Eosinophilia 
Haemolytic anaemia  
Nucleated red cells  
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Liver injury  
Anaemia 
Hepatic 
enzyme 
increased 
Drug specific 
antibody 
present  
Dyspnoea  
Infusion related 
reaction  
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Fatigue  
Face oedema  
Pyrexia   
Chills  
Infusion site 
reaction 
Injection site 
reaction 
Pruritus  
Rash  
Urticaria  
11 
Angioedema  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA 
System Organ 
Class 
Vascular 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders  
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders  
Very Common 
Common 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
Rare  
Not known 
Flushing  
Dizziness 
Headache  
Arthralgia  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infusion-related reactions (IRR) 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients, an infusion-related event was defined as an adverse 
event occurring during the infusion or within 1 hour of the completion of the infusion. These occurred 
in 23.1% of MS patients treated with natalizumab (placebo: 18.7%). Events reported more commonly 
with natalizumab than with placebo included dizziness, nausea, urticaria and rigors.  
Hypersensitivity reactions 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients, hypersensitivity reactions occurred in up to 4% of 
patients. Anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving  this 
medicinal product. Hypersensitivity reactions usually occurred during the infusion or within the 
1-hour period after the completion of the infusion (see section 4.4). In post-marketing experience, 
there have been reports of hypersensitivity reactions which have occurred with one or more of the 
following associated symptoms: hypotension, hypertension, chest pain, chest discomfort, dyspnoea, 
angioedema, in addition to more usual symptoms such as rash and urticaria. 
Immunogenicity 
In 10% of patients antibodies against natalizumab were detected in 2-year controlled clinical trials in 
MS patients. Persistent anti-natalizumab antibodies (one positive test reproducible on retesting at least 
6 weeks later) developed in approximately 6% of patients. Antibodies were detected on only one 
occasion in an additional 4% of patients. Persistent antibodies were associated with a substantial 
decrease in the effectiveness of natalizumab and an increased incidence of hypersensitivity reactions. 
Additional infusion-related reactions associated with persistent antibodies included rigors, nausea, 
vomiting and flushing (see section 4.4). 
If, after approximately 6 months of therapy, persistent antibodies are suspected, either due to reduced 
efficacy or due to occurrence of infusion-related events, they may be detected and confirmed with a 
subsequent test 6 weeks after the first positive test. Given that efficacy may be reduced or the 
incidence of hypersensitivity or infusion-related reactions may be increased in a patient with persistent 
antibodies, treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop persistent antibodies. 
Infections, including PML and opportunistic infections 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients, the rate of infection was approximately 1.5 per 
patient-year in both natalizumab- and placebo-treated patients. The nature of the infections was 
generally similar in natalizumab- and placebo-treated patients. A case of cryptosporidium diarrhoea 
was reported in MS clinical trials. In other clinical trials, cases of additional opportunistic infections 
have been reported, some of which were fatal. The majority of patients did not interrupt natalizumab 
therapy during infections and recovery occurred with appropriate treatment. 
In clinical trials, herpes infections (Varicella-Zoster virus, Herpes-simplex virus) occurred slightly 
more frequently in natalizumab-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients. In post-marketing 
experience, serious, life-threatening, and sometimes fatal cases of encephalitis and meningitis caused 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
by herpes simplex or varicella zoster have been reported in multiple sclerosis patients receiving 
natalizumab. The duration of treatment with natalizumab prior to onset ranged from a few months to 
several years (see section 4.4). 
In postmarketing experience, rare cases of ARN have been observed in patients receiving this 
medicinal product. Some cases have occurred in patients with central nervous system (CNS) herpes 
infections (e.g. herpes meningitis and encephalitis). Serious cases of ARN, either affecting one or both 
eyes, led to blindness in some patients. The treatment reported in these cases included anti-viral 
therapy and in some cases, surgery (see section 4.4). 
Cases of PML have been reported from clinical trials, post-marketing observational studies and post-
marketing passive surveillance. PML usually leads to severe disability or death (see section 4.4). 
Cases of JCV GCN have also been reported during postmarketing use of Tysabri. Symptoms of JCV 
GCN are similar to PML. 
Hepatic events 
Spontaneous cases of serious liver injuries, increased liver enzymes, hyperbilirubinaemia have been 
reported during the post-marketing phase (see section 4.4). 
Anaemia and haemolytic anaemia 
Rare, serious cases of anaemia and haemolytic anaemia have been reported in patients treated with this 
medicinal product in post-marketing observational studies. 
Malignancies 
No differences in incidence rates or the nature of malignancies between natalizumab- and 
placebo-treated patients were observed over 2 years of treatment. However, observation over longer 
treatment periods is required before any effect of natalizumab on malignancies can be excluded (see 
section 4.3). 
Effects on laboratory tests 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients treatment with natalizumab was associated with 
increases in circulating lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, basophils and nucleated red blood cells. 
Elevations in neutrophils were not seen. Increases from baseline for lymphocytes, monocytes, 
eosinophils and basophils ranged from 35% to 140% for individual cell types but mean cell counts 
remained within normal ranges with IV administration. During treatment with IV form of this 
medicinal product, small reductions in haemoglobin (mean decrease 0.6 g/dL), haematocrit (mean 
decrease 2%) and red blood cell counts (mean decrease 0.1 x 106/L) were seen. All changes in 
haematological variables returned to pre-treatment values, usually within 16 weeks of last dose of the 
medicinal product and the changes were not associated with clinical symptoms. In post-marketing 
experience, there have also been reports of eosinophilia (eosinophil count >1,500/mm3) without 
clinical symptoms. In such cases where therapy was discontinued the elevated eosinophil levels 
resolved. 
Thrombocytopenia  
In post-marketing experience, thrombocytopenia and immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) have 
been reported with uncommon frequency. 
Paediatric population 
Serious adverse events were evaluated in 621 MS paediatric patients included in a meta-analysis (see 
also section 5.1). Within the limitations of these data, there were no new safety signals identified in 
this patient population. 1 case of herpes meningitis was reported in the meta-analysis. No cases of 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PML were identified in the meta-analysis, however, PML has been reported in natalizumab-treated 
paediatric patients in the post-marketing setting. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Safety  of  doses  higher  than  300  mg  has  not  been  adequately  evaluated.  The  maximum  amount  of 
natalizumab that can be safely administered has not been determined.  
There  is  no  known  antidote  for  natalizumab  overdose.  Treatment  consists  of  discontinuation  of  the 
medicinal product and supportive therapy as needed. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: 
L04AA23 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Natalizumab is a selective adhesion-molecule inhibitor and binds to the α4-subunit of human integrins, 
which is highly expressed on the surface of all leukocytes, with the exception of neutrophils. 
Specifically, natalizumab binds to the α4β1 integrin, blocking the interaction with its cognate receptor, 
vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and ligands osteopontin, and an alternatively spliced 
domain of fibronectin, connecting segment-1 (CS-1). Natalizumab blocks the interaction of α4β7 
integrin with the mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule-1 (MadCAM-1). Disruption of these 
molecular interactions prevents transmigration of mononuclear leukocytes across the endothelium into 
inflamed parenchymal tissue. A further mechanism of action of natalizumab may be to suppress 
ongoing inflammatory reactions in diseased tissues by inhibiting the interaction of α4-expressing 
leukocytes with their ligands in the extracellular matrix and on parenchymal cells. As such, 
natalizumab may act to suppress inflammatory activity present at the disease site, and inhibit further 
recruitment of immune cells into inflamed tissues. 
In MS, lesions are believed to occur when activated T-lymphocytes cross the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB). Leukocyte migration across the BBB involves interaction between adhesion molecules on 
inflammatory cells and endothelial cells of the vessel wall. The interaction between α4β1 and its 
targets is an important component of pathological inflammation in the brain and disruption of these 
interactions leads to reduced inflammation. Under normal conditions, VCAM-1 is not expressed in the 
brain parenchyma. However, in the presence of pro-inflammatory cytokines, VCAM-1 is upregulated 
on endothelial cells and possibly on glial cells near the sites of inflammation. In the setting of central 
nervous system (CNS) inflammation in MS, it is the interaction of α4β1 with VCAM-1, CS-1 and 
osteopontin that mediates the firm adhesion and transmigration of leukocytes into the brain 
parenchyma and may perpetuate the inflammatory cascade in CNS tissue. Blockade of the molecular 
interactions of α4β1 with its targets reduces inflammatory activity present in the brain in MS and 
inhibits further recruitment of immune cells into inflamed tissue, thus reducing the formation or 
enlargement of MS lesions. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy 
AFFIRM clinical study 
Efficacy as monotherapy has been evaluated in one randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
study lasting 2 years (AFFIRM study) in RRMS patients who had experienced at least 1 clinical 
relapse during the year prior to entry and had a Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) 
score between 0 and 5. Median age was 37 years, with a median disease duration of 5 years. The 
patients were randomised with a 2:1 ratio to receive Tysabri 300 mg (n = 627) or placebo (n = 315) 
every 4 weeks for up to 30 infusions. Neurological evaluations were performed every 12 weeks and at 
times of suspected relapse. MRI evaluations for T1-weighted gadolinium (Gd)-enhancing lesions and 
T2-hyperintense lesions were performed annually. 
Study features and results are presented in the Table 2. 
Table 2.  AFFIRM study: Main features and results  
Design  
Subjects  
Treatment 
One year endpoint 
Two year endpoint 
Secondary endpoints  
Subjects  
Randomised  
Completing 1 years   
Completing 2 years   
Age yrs, median (range) 
MS-history yrs, median (range) 
Time since diagnosis, yrs median 
(range) 
Relapses in previous 12 months, 
median (range) 
EDSS-baseline, median (range) 
RESULTS  
Annual relapse rate  
Monotherapy; randomised double-blind placebo-controlled 
parallel-group trial for 120 weeks 
RRMS (McDonald criteria) 
Placebo / Natalizumab 300 mg i.v. every 4 weeks 
Relapse rate 
Progression on EDSS 
Relapse rate derived variables / MRI-derived variables 
Placebo 
315 
296 
285 
37 (19-50) 
6.0 (0-33) 
2.0 (0-23) 
1.0 (0-5) 
2 (0-6.0) 
Natalizumab 
627 
609 
589 
36 (18-50) 
5.0 (0-34) 
2.0 (0-24) 
1.0 (0-12) 
2 (0-6.0) 
After one year (primary endpoint)   
After two years 
0.805 
0.733 
0.261 
0.235 
One year   
Two years  
Rate ratio 0.33 CI95% 0.26 ; 0.41 
Rate ratio 0.32 CI95% 0.26 ; 0.40 
Relapse free  
After one year   
After two years 
Disability  
Proportion progressed1(12-week 
confirmation; primary outcome) 
Proportion progressed1(24-week 
confirmation) 
53% 
41% 
29% 
76% 
67% 
17% 
Hazard ratio 0.58, CI95% 0.43; 0.73, p<0.001 
23% 
11% 
Hazard ratio 0.46, CI95% 0.33; 0.64, p<0.001 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.  AFFIRM study: Main features and results  
MRI (0-2 years) 
Median % change in T2-
hyperintense lesion volume 
Mean number of new or newly-
enlarging T2-hyperintense lesions 
Mean number of T1-hypointense 
lesions 
Mean number of Gd-enhancing 
lesions 
+8.8% 
11.0 
4.6 
1.2 
-9.4% 
(p<0.001) 
1.9 
(p<0.001) 
1.1 
(p<0.001) 
0.1 
(p<0.001) 
1 Progression of disability was defined as at least a 1.0 point increase on the EDSS from a baseline EDSS >=1.0 sustained 
for 12 or 24 weeks or at least a 1.5 point increase on the EDSS from a baseline EDSS =0 sustained for 12 or 24 weeks. 
In the sub-group of patients indicated for treatment of rapidly evolving RRMS (patients with 2 or more 
relapses and 1 or more Gd+ lesion), the annualised relapse rate was 0.282 in the natalizumab-treated 
group (n = 148) and 1.455 in the placebo group (n = 61) (p <0.001). Hazard ratio for disability 
progression was 0.36 (95% CI: 0.17, 0.76) p = 0.008. These results were obtained from a post hoc 
analysis and should be interpreted cautiously. No information on the severity of the relapses before 
inclusion of patients in the study is available. 
Tysabri Observational Program (TOP) 
Interim analysis of results (as of May 2015) from the ongoing Tysabri Observational Program (TOP), 
a phase 4, multicentre, single-arm study (n =5,770) demonstrated that patients switching from beta 
interferon (n = 3,255) or glatiramer acetate (n = 1,384) to Tysabri showed a sustained, significant 
decrease in annualised relapse rate (p < 0.0001). Mean EDSS scores remained stable over 5 years. 
Consistent with efficacy results observed for patients switching from beta interferon or glatiramer 
acetate to Tysabri, for patients switching from fingolimod (n = 147) to  this medicinal product, a 
significant decrease in annualised relapse rate (ARR) was observed, which remained stable over 2 
years, and mean EDSS scores remained similar from baseline to Year 2. The limited sample size and 
shorter duration of natalizumab exposure for this subgroup of patients should be considered when 
interpreting these data. 
Paediatric population 
A post-marketing meta-analysis was conducted using data from 621 paediatric MS patients treated 
with natalizumab (median age 17 years, range was 7 to 18 years, 91% aged ≥14 years). Within this 
analysis, a limited subset of patients with data available prior to treatment (158 of the 621 patients) 
demonstrated a reduction in ARR from 1.466 (95% CI 1.337, 1.604) prior to treatment to 0.110 (95% 
CI 0.094, 0.128). 
Extended interval dosing 
In a pre-specified, retrospective analysis of US anti-JCV antibody positive Tysabri patients 
intravenously administered (TOUCH registry), the risk of PML was compared between patients 
treated with the approved dosing interval and patients treated with extended interval dosing as 
identified in the last 18 months of exposure (EID, average dosing intervals of approximately 6 weeks). 
The majority (85%) of patients dosed with EID had received the approved dosing for ≥1 year prior to 
switching to EID. The analysis showed a lower risk of PML in patients treated with EID (hazard ratio 
= 0.06, 95% CI of hazard ratio = 0.01 to 0.22). 
Efficacy has been modelled for patients who switch to longer dosing after ≥1 year of approved dosing 
with this medicinal product under intravenous administration and who did not experience a relapse in 
the year prior to switching. Current pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic statistical modelling and 
simulation indicate that the risk of MS disease activity for patients switching to longer dosing intervals 
may be higher for patients with dosing intervals ≥7 weeks. No prospective clinical studies have been 
completed to validate these findings.  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy of natalizumab when administered with EID has not been established; therefore, the 
benefit/risk balance of EID is unknown (see “Intravenous administration Q6W”). 
Intravenous administration Q6W 
Efficacy and safety were evaluated in a prospective, randomized, interventional, controlled, open-label, 
rater-blinded,  international  phase  3  study  (NOVA,  101MS329),  involving  subjects  with  relapsing-
remitting  MS  according  to  the  2017  McDonald  criteria  dosed  intravenously  every  six  weeks  with 
natalizumab. The study was designed to estimate an efficacy difference between Q6W and Q4W dosing 
regimens. 
The study randomized 499 subjects aged 18-60, with an EDSS score ≤ 5.5 at screening, who received 
at least 1 year of natalizumab treatment IV Q4W and were clinically stable (no relapse in the last 12 
months, no gadolinium (Gd) enhancing T1 lesions at screening). In the study, subjects who switched to 
Q6W after at least one year of IV Q4W treatment with natalizumab were evaluated in relation to subjects 
who continued on IV Q4W treatment.  
Baseline demographic subgroups of age, sex, duration of natalizumab exposure, country, body weight, 
anti-JCV status and number of relapses in the year prior to the first dose, number of relapses while on 
natalizumab, number of prior DMTs, and type of prior DMT were similar between the Q6W and Q4W 
dosing treatment arms.  
Table 3.  NOVA study: Main features and results 
Design 
Subjects   
Treatment administration (part 1) 
Randomized  
RESULTS 
mITTa population for part 1 at week 72 
New/newly enlarging (N/NE) T2 
lesions from baseline to Week 72 
Subjects with number of lesions = 0  
= 1 
= 2 
= 3 
= 4 
≥ 5 
missing 
Adjusted mean N/NE T2-hyperintense 
lesions (primary endpoint)* 
95% CIb,c 
Proportion of subjects that developed 
N/NE T2 lesions 
Proportion of subjects who developed 
T1-hypointense lesions 
Monotherapy; phase 3b prospective, randomized, 
interventional, controlled, open-label, rater-blinded, 
international study 
RRMS (McDonald criteria)  
Natalizumab Q4W 
300 mg I.V. 
248 
Natalizumab Q6W 
300 mg I.V. 
251 
242 
247 
202 (81.8%) 
5 (2.0%) 
2 (0.8%) 
0 
0 
2* (0.8%) 
36 (14.6%) 
0.20 
(0.07, 0.63) 
4.3% 
1.2% 
189 (78.1%) 
7 (3.6%) 
1 (0.5%) 
0 
0 
0 
45 (18.6%) 
0.05 
(0.01, 0.22) 
p = 0.0755 
4.1% 
0.8% 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proportion of subjects who developed 
Gd-enhancing lesions 
0.4% 
Adjusted annualized relapse rate 
0.00010 
Proportion of subjects free of 
relapse** 
Proportion free of 24-week confirmed 
EDSS worsening 
97.6% 
92% 
0.4% 
0.00013 
96.9% 
90% 
a mITT population, which included all randomized participants who received at least 1 dose of study treatment 
(natalizumab SID or natalizumab EID) and had at least 1 postbaseline result from the following clinical efficacy 
assessments: MRI efficacy assessments, relapses, EDSS, 9-HPT, T25FW, SDMT, TSQM, CGI scale. 
b Estimated using negative binomial regression with treatment as classification and baseline body weight (≤ 80 vs 
> 80  kg), duration of natalizumab exposure at baseline (≤ 3 vs > 3 years), and region (North America, the UK, 
Europe and Israel, and Australia) as covariates.  
c Observed lesions are included for analysis regardless of intercurrent events, and missing values due to efficacy or 
safety (6 subjects switched to Q4W dosing and 1 subject each on Q6W and Q4W dosing discontinued treatment) 
are imputed by the worst case of subjects on treatment at the same visit in the same treatment group or otherwise 
via multiple imputation. 
* The numerical difference seen in the N/NE lesions between the two treatment groups was driven by a high number 
of lesions occurring in two subjects in the Q6W arm – one subject who developed lesions three months after 
treatment discontinuation and a second subject who was diagnosed with  asymptomatic PML at week 72. 
** Relapses – clinical relapses were assessed as defined by new or recurrent neurologic symptoms not 
associated with fever or infection having a minimum duration of 24 hours. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Following the repeat intravenous administration of a 300 mg dose of natalizumab to MS patients, the 
mean maximum observed serum concentration was 110 ± 52 μg/mL. Mean average steady-state 
trough natalizumab concentrations over the dosing period ranged from 23 μg/mL to 29 μg/mL in Q4W 
dosing. At any time, mean trough concentrations for the Q6W regimen were approximately 60 to 70% 
lower than for the Q4W regimen. The predicted time to steady state was approximately 24 weeks. 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis includes 12 studies and 1,781 subjects receiving doses ranging 
from 1 to 6 mg/kg and fixed doses of 150/300 mg. 
Distribution  
Median steady-state volume of distribution was 5.96 L (4.59-6.38 L, 95% confidence interval). 
Elimination 
Population median estimate for linear clearance was 6.1 mL/h (5.75-6.33 mL/h, 95% confidence 
interval) and the estimated median half-life was 28.2 days. The 95th percentile interval of the terminal 
half-life is from 11.6 to 46.2 days. 
The population analysis of 1,781 patients explored the effects of selected covariates including body 
weight, age, gender, presence of anti-natalizumab antibodies and formulation on pharmacokinetics. 
Only body weight, the presence of anti-natalizumab antibodies and the formulation used in phase 2 
studies were found to influence natalizumab disposition. Natalizumab clearance increased with body 
weight in a less-than-proportional manner, such that a +/-43% change in body weight resulted in only 
a -33% to 30% change in clearance. The presence of persistent anti-natalizumab antibodies increased 
natalizumab clearance approximately 2.45-fold, consistent with reduced serum natalizumab 
concentrations observed in persistently antibody-positive patients.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special Populations 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of natalizumab in paediatric MS patients has not been established.  
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of natalizumab in patients with renal insufficiency has not been studied. 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of natalizumab in patients with hepatic insufficiency has not been studied. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. 
Consistent with the pharmacological activity of natalizumab, altered trafficking of lymphocytes was 
seen as white blood cell increases as well as increased spleen weights in most in vivo studies. These 
changes were reversible and did not appear to have any adverse toxicological consequences. 
In studies conducted in mice, growth and metastasis of melanoma and lymphoblastic leukaemia 
tumour cells was not increased by the administration of natalizumab. 
No clastogenic or mutagenic effects of natalizumab were observed in the Ames or human 
chromosomal aberration assays. Natalizumab showed no effects on in vitro assays of 
α4-integrin-positive tumour line proliferation or cytotoxicity. 
Reductions in female guinea pig fertility were observed in one study at doses in excess of the human 
dose; natalizumab did not affect male fertility. 
The effect of natalizumab on reproduction was evaluated in 5 studies, 3 in guinea pigs and 2 in 
cynomolgus monkeys. These studies showed no evidence of teratogenic effects or effects on growth of 
offspring. In one study in guinea pigs, a small reduction in pup survival was noted. In a study in 
monkeys, the number of abortions was doubled in the natalizumab 30 mg/kg treatment groups versus 
matching control groups. This was the result of a high incidence of abortions in treated groups in the 
first cohort that was not observed in the second cohort. No effects on abortion rates were noted in any 
other study. A study in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys demonstrated natalizumab-related changes in 
the foetus that included mild anaemia, reduced platelet counts, increased spleen weights and reduced 
liver and thymus weights. These changes were associated with increased splenic extramedullary 
haematopoiesis, thymic atrophy and decreased hepatic haematopoiesis. Platelet counts were also 
reduced in offspring born to mothers treated with natalizumab until parturition, however there was no 
evidence of anaemia in these offspring. All changes were observed at doses in excess of the human 
dose and were reversed upon clearance of natalizumab. 
In cynomolgus monkeys treated with natalizumab until parturition, low levels of natalizumab were 
detected in the breast milk of some animals. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium phosphate, monobasic, monohydrate 
Sodium phosphate, dibasic, heptahydrate 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium chloride 
Polysorbate 80 (E 433) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Tysabri 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion must not be mixed with other medicinal products 
except those mentioned in section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
4 years 
Diluted solution 
Chemical and physical stability of the diluted solution has been demonstrated for 72 hours at 2 – 8 °C 
and up to 30°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, after dilution with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution 
for injection, immediate use is recommended. If not used immediately, the diluted solution must be 
stored at 2˚C to 8˚C and infused within 24 hours of dilution. In-use storage times and conditions prior 
to use are the responsibility of the user. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2˚C to 8˚C). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
15 mL concentrate in a vial (type I glass) with a stopper (chlorobutyl rubber) and a seal (aluminium) 
with a flip-off cap.  
Pack size of one vial per carton. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use: 
•  Inspect the vial for particles prior to dilution and administration. If particles are observed and/or 
the liquid in the vial is not colourless, clear to slightly opalescent, the vial must not be used. 
•  Use aseptic technique when preparing the
solution for intravenous (IV) infusion. Remove 
flip-off cap from the vial. Insert the syringe needle into the vial through the centre of the rubber 
stopper and remove 15 mL concentrate for solution for infusion. 
•  Add the 15 mL concentrate for solution for infusion to 100 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection. Gently invert the solution to mix completely. Do not shake. 
•  This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products or diluents. 
•  Visually inspect the diluted medicinal product for particles or discolouration prior to 
administration. Do not use if it is discoloured or if foreign particles are seen. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The diluted medicinal product is to be used as soon as possible and within 24 hours of dilution. 
If the diluted medicinal product is stored at 2˚C to 8˚C (do not freeze), allow the solution to 
warm to room temperature prior to infusion. 
•  The diluted solution is to be infused intravenously over 1 hour at a rate of approximately 2 mL 
per minute. 
•  After the infusion is complete, flush the intravenous line with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection. 
•  Each vial is for single–use only. 
•  Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/06/346/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 27th June 2006 
Date of latest renewal: 18th April 2016 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency https://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tysabri 150 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL contains 150 mg of natalizumab. 
Natalizumab is a recombinant humanised anti-α4-integrin antibody produced in a murine cell line by 
recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection) 
Colourless to slightly yellow, slightly opalescent to opalescent solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Tysabri is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in adults with highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) for the following patient groups: 
•  Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy (DMT) (for exceptions and information about washout periods 
see sections 4.4 and 5.1)  
or 
•  Patients with rapidly evolving severe RRMS defined by 2 or more disabling relapses in one 
year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
(MRI) or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy is to be initiated and continuously supervised by specialised physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of neurological conditions, with timely access to MRI. Administration is to be 
performed by a healthcare professional and patients must be monitored for early signs and symptoms 
of Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Patients treated with this medicinal product must be given the patient alert card and be informed about 
the risks of the medicinal product (see also package leaflet). After 2 years of treatment, patients should 
be re-informed about the risks, especially the increased risk of PML, and should be instructed together 
with their caregivers on early signs and symptoms of PML. 
Resources for the management of hypersensitivity reactions and access to MRI should be available. 
There are limited data for the subcutaneous formulation in the Tysabri naïve patient population (see 
section 4.4).  
Some patients may have been exposed to immunosuppressive medicinal products (e.g. mitoxantrone, 
cyclophosphamide, azathioprine). These medicinal products have the potential to cause prolonged 
immunosuppression, even after dosing is discontinued. Therefore the physician must confirm that such 
patients are not immunocompromised before starting treatment (see section 4.4). 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
The recommended dose for subcutaneous administration is 300 mg every 4 weeks. As each pre-filled 
syringe contains 150 mg natalizumab two pre-filled syringes need to be administered to the patient.  
Continued therapy must be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic 
benefit beyond 6 months.  
Data on the safety and efficacy of natalizumab (intravenous infusion) at 2 years were generated from 
controlled, double–blind studies. After 2 years continued therapy should be considered only following 
a reassessment of the potential for benefit and risk. Patients should be re-informed about the risk 
factors for PML, like duration of treatment, immunosuppressant use prior to receiving the medicinal 
product and the presence of anti-John Cunningham virus (JCV) antibodies (see section 4.4). 
Readministration 
The efficacy of re-administration has not been established (for safety, see section 4.4). 
Any switch in route of administration of the medicinal product should be made 4 weeks after the 
previous dose. 
Special populations  
Elderly 
This medicinal product is not recommended for use in patients aged over 65 due to a lack of data in 
this population. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Studies have not been conducted to examine the effects of renal or hepatic impairment. 
The mechanism for elimination and results from population pharmacokinetics suggest that dose 
adjustment would not be necessary in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of this medicinal product in children and adolescents up to 18 years have not 
been established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1.  
Method of administration 
Tysabri 150 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe should be administered by a healthcare 
professional via subcutaneous (SC) injection only. It is not intended for intravenous (IV) infusion. 
Injections of two pre-filled syringes should be administered (total dose 300 mg), one after the other 
without significant delay. The second injection should be administered no later than 30 minutes after 
the first injection. 
The sites for subcutaneous injection are the thigh, abdomen, or the posterior aspect of the upper arm. 
The injection should not be made into an area of the body where the skin is irritated, reddened, 
bruised, infected, or scarred in any way. When removing the syringe from the injection site, the 
plunger should be let go of while pulling the needle straight out. Letting go of the plunger will allow 
the needle guard to cover the needle. The second injection should be more than 3 cm away from the 
first injection location (see instructions for administration at the end of the package leaflet). 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Natalizumab naïve patients should be observed during the injection and for 1 hour after for signs and 
symptoms of injection reactions including hypersensitivity for the first 6 natalizumab doses. For 
patients currently receiving natalizumab and who have already received at least 6 doses, regardless of 
the route of natalizumab administration used for the first 6 doses, the 1-hour post-injection observation 
time for subsequent subcutaneous injections may be reduced or removed according to clinical 
judgement if the patients have not experienced any injection/infusion reactions. 
Natalizumab injections administered by a healthcare professional outside a clinical setting (e.g. at 
home) may be considered for patients who have previously tolerated at least 6 doses of natalizumab 
well, i.e. who have not experienced hypersensitivity reactions. The decision for a patient to receive 
injections outside a clinical setting should be made after evaluation and recommendation by the 
specialised physician. Healthcare professionals should be vigilant for the early signs and symptoms of 
PML (see section 4.4 for further information on PML and educational guidance). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Patients with increased risk for opportunistic infections, including immunocompromised patients 
(including those currently receiving immunosuppressive therapies or those immunocompromised by 
prior therapies (see sections 4.4 and 4.8)). 
Combination with other DMTs. 
Known active malignancies, except for patients with cutaneous basal cell carcinoma. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability  
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Use of this medicinal product has been associated with an increased risk of PML, an opportunistic 
infection caused by JC virus, which may be fatal or result in severe disability. Due to this increased 
risk of developing PML, the benefits and risks of treatment should be individually reconsidered by the 
specialised physician and the patient; patients must be monitored at regular intervals throughout and 
should be instructed together with their caregivers on early signs and symptoms of PML. JC virus also 
causes JCV granule cell neuronopathy (GCN) which has been reported in patients treated with this 
medicinal product. Symptoms of JCV GCN are similar to symptoms of PML (i.e. cerebellar 
syndrome). 
The following risk factors are associated with an increased risk of PML: 
•  The presence of anti-JCV antibodies. 
•  Treatment duration, especially beyond 2 years. After 2 years all patients should be re-informed 
about the risk of PML with the medicinal product.  
•  Immunosuppressant use prior to receiving the medicinal product. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who are anti-JCV antibody positive are at an increased risk of developing PML compared to 
patients who are anti-JCV antibody negative. Patients who have all three risk factors for PML (i.e., are 
anti-JCV antibody positive and have received more than 2 years of therapy with this medicinal 
product and have received prior immunosuppressant therapy) have a significantly higher risk of PML.  
In anti-JCV antibody positive natalizumab treated patients who have not used prior 
immunosuppressants the level of anti-JCV antibody response (index) is associated with the level of 
risk for PML.  
In anti-JCV antibody positive patients, extended interval dosing of natalizumab (average dosing 
interval of approximately 6 weeks) is suggested to be associated with a lower PML risk compared to 
approved dosing. If utilising extended interval dosing, caution is required because the efficacy of 
extended interval dosing has not been established and the associated benefit/risk balance is currently 
unknown (see section 5.1). The decrease in PML risk is based on data from intravenous route of 
administration.  No clinical data are available on either the safety or efficacy of this extended interval 
dosing with subcutaneous route of administration.  For further information, refer to the Physician 
Information and Management Guidelines. 
Patients considered at high risk treatment with this treatment should only be continued if the benefits 
outweigh the risks. For the estimation of PML risk in the different patient subgroups, please refer to 
the Physician Information and Management Guidelines. 
Anti-JCV antibody testing 
Anti-JCV antibody testing provides supportive information for risk stratification of treatment with this 
medicinal product. Testing for serum anti-JCV antibody prior to initiating therapy or in patients 
receiving the medicinal product with an unknown antibody status is recommended. Anti-JCV antibody 
negative patients may still be at risk of PML for reasons such as a new JCV infection, fluctuating 
antibody status or a false negative test result. Re-testing of anti-JCV antibody negative patients every 6 
months is recommended. Retesting low index patients who have no history of prior 
immunosuppressant use every 6 months once they reach the 2 year treatment point is recommended.  
The anti-JCV antibody assay (ELISA) should not be used to diagnose PML. Use of 
plasmapheresis/plasma exchange (PLEX) or intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) can affect 
meaningful interpretation of serum anti-JCV antibody testing. Patients should not be tested for anti-
JCV antibodies within 2 weeks of PLEX due to removal of antibodies from the serum, or within 6 
months of IVIg (i.e. 6 months = 5x half-life for immunoglobulins).    
For further information on anti-JCV antibody testing please see Physician Information and 
Management Guidelines. 
MRI screening for PML 
Before initiation of treatment with this medicinal product, a recent (usually within 3 months) MRI 
should be available as a reference, and be repeated at least on a yearly basis. More frequent MRIs (e.g. 
on a 3 to 6 monthly basis) using an abbreviated protocol should be considered for patients at higher 
risk of PML. This includes: 
•  Patients who have all three risk factors for PML (i.e., are anti-JCV antibody positive and have 
received more than 2 years of therapy with this medicinal product and have received prior 
immunosuppressant therapy),  
or 
•  Patients with a high anti-JCV antibody index who have received more than 2 years of therapy 
with this medicinal product and without prior history of immunosuppressant therapy.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Current evidence suggests that the risk of PML is low at an index equal to or below 0.9 and increases 
substantially above 1.5 for patients who have been on treatment with this medicinal product for longer 
than 2 years (see the Physician Information and Management Guidelines for further information). 
No studies have been performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of this medicinal product when 
switching patients from DMTs with an immunosuppressant effect. It is unknown if patients switching 
from these therapies to this treatment have an increased risk of PML, therefore these patients should 
be monitored more frequently (i.e. similarly to patients switching from immunosuppressants to this 
medicinal product). 
PML should be considered as a differential diagnosis in any MS patient taking natalizumab presenting 
with neurological symptoms and/or new brain lesions in MRI. Cases of asymptomatic PML based on 
MRI and positive JCV DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid have been reported.  
Physicians should refer to the Physician Information and Management Guidelines for further 
information on managing the risk of PML in natalizumab-treated patients.    
If PML or JCV GCN is suspected, further dosing must be suspended until PML has been 
excluded.  
The specialised physician should evaluate the patient to determine if the symptoms are indicative of 
neurological dysfunction and, if so, whether these symptoms are typical of MS or possibly suggestive 
of PML or JCV GCN. If any doubt exists, further evaluation, including MRI scan preferably with 
contrast (compared with pre-treatment baseline MRI), CSF testing for JC Viral DNA and repeat 
neurological assessments, should be considered as described in the Physician Information and 
Management Guidelines (see Educational guidance). Once the physician has excluded PML and/or 
JCV GCN (if necessary, by repeating clinical, imaging and/or laboratory investigations if clinical 
suspicion remains), dosing may resume. 
The physician should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML or JCV GCN that the 
patient may not notice (e.g. cognitive, psychiatric symptoms or cerebellar syndrome). Patients should 
also be advised to inform their partner or caregivers about their treatment, since they may notice 
symptoms that the patient is not aware of. 
PML has been reported following discontinuation of this medicinal product in patients who did not 
have findings suggestive of PML at the time of discontinuation. Patients and physicians should 
continue to follow the same monitoring protocol and be alert for any new signs or symptoms that may 
be suggestive of PML for approximately 6 months following discontinuation of natalizumab. 
If a patient develops PML the dosing of this medicinal product must be permanently discontinued. 
Following reconstitution of the immune system in immunocompromised patients with PML improved 
outcome has been seen.  
Based on a retrospective analysis of natalizumab-treated patients, no difference was observed on 
2-year survival after PML diagnosis between patients who received PLEX and those who did not. For 
other considerations on the management of PML, see the Physician Information and Management 
Guidelines. 
PML and IRIS (Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome) 
IRIS occurs in almost all PML patients treated with this medicinal product after withdrawal or 
removal of the medicinal product. IRIS is thought to result from the restoration of immune function in 
patients with PML, which can lead to serious neurological complications and may be fatal. Monitoring 
for development of IRIS and appropriate treatment of the associated inflammation during recovery 
from PML should be undertaken (see the Physician Information and Management Guidelines for 
further information). 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections including other opportunistic infections 
Other opportunistic infections have been reported with use of this medicinal product, primarily in 
patients with Crohn’s disease who were immunocompromised or where significant comorbidity 
existed, however increased risk of other opportunistic infections with use of the medicinal product in 
patients without these co-morbidities cannot currently be excluded. Opportunistic infections were also 
detected in MS patients treated with this medicinal product as a monotherapy (see section 4.8). 
This treatment increases the risk of developing encephalitis and meningitis caused by herpes simplex 
and varicella zoster viruses. Serious, life-threatening, and sometimes fatal cases have been reported in 
the postmarketing setting in multiple sclerosis patients receiving the treatment (see section 4.8). If 
herpes encephalitis or meningitis occurs, the medicinal product should be discontinued, and 
appropriate treatment for herpes encephalitis or meningitis should be administered. 
Acute retinal necrosis (ARN) is a rare fulminant viral infection of the retina caused by the family of 
herpes viruses (e.g. varicella zoster). ARN has been observed in patients being administered this 
medicinal product and can be potentially blinding. Patients presenting with eye symptoms such as 
decreased visual acuity, redness and painful eye should be referred for retinal screening for ARN. 
Following clinical diagnosis of ARN, discontinuation of this medicinal product should be considered 
in these patients. 
Prescribers should be aware of the possibility that other opportunistic infections may occur during 
therapy and should include them in the differential diagnosis of infections that occur in Tysabri-treated 
patients. If an opportunistic infection is suspected, dosing is to be suspended until such infections can 
be excluded through further evaluations. 
If a patient receiving this medicinal product develops an opportunistic infection, dosing of the 
medicinal product must be permanently discontinued. 
Educational guidance 
All physicians who intend to prescribe the medicinal product must ensure they are familiar with the 
Physician Information and Management Guidelines. 
Physicians must discuss the benefits and risks of natalizumab therapy with the patient and provide 
them with a patient alert card. Patients should be instructed that if they develop any infection then they 
should inform their physician that they are being treated with this medicinal product. 
Physicians should counsel patients on the importance of uninterrupted dosing, particularly in the early 
months of treatment (see hypersensitivity). 
Healthcare professionals administering natalizumab subcutaneous injection outside a clinical setting 
(OCS), e.g. at home, must complete the OCS Administration Checklist for each patient prior to each 
administration. 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity reactions have been associated with this medicinal product, including, for the 
intravenous infusion, serious systemic reactions (see section 4.8).  
These reactions usually occurred within one hour after administration. The risk for hypersensitivity 
was greatest with early infusions and in patients re-exposed to treatment following an initial short 
exposure (one or two infusions) and extended period (three months or more) without treatment. 
However, the risk of hypersensitivity reactions should be considered for every administration. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients are to be observed during the subcutaneous injections and for 1 hour after, for signs and 
symptoms of injection reactions including hypersensitivity (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). Resources for 
the management of hypersensitivity reactions should be available. 
This medicinal product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy initiated at the first symptoms 
or signs of hypersensitivity. 
Patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction must be permanently discontinued from 
treatment with natalizumab. 
There are limited data for the subcutaneous formulation in the Tysabri naïve patient population (see 
section 5.1). 
Concurrent treatment with immunosuppressants 
The safety and efficacy of this medicinal product in combination with other immunosuppressive and 
antineoplastic therapies have not been fully established. Concurrent use of these agents with this 
medicinal product may increase the risk of infections, including opportunistic infections, and is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
In phase 3 MS clinical trials with natalizumab intravenous infusion, concomitant treatment of relapses 
with a short course of corticosteroids was not associated with an increased rate of infection. Short 
courses of corticosteroids can be used in combination with  this medicinal product. 
Prior treatment with immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapies  
Patients with a treatment history of immunosuppressant medications are at increased risk for PML. 
No studies have been performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the medicinal product when 
switching patients from DMTs with an immunosuppressant effect. It is unknown if patients switching 
from these therapies to this medicinal product have an increased risk of PML, therefore these patients 
should be monitored more frequently (i.e. similarly to patients switching from immunosuppressants to  
this medicinal product, see MRI screening for PML). 
Care should be taken with patients who have previously received immunosuppressants to allow 
sufficient time for immune function recovery to occur. Physicians must evaluate each individual case 
to determine whether there is evidence of an immunocompromised state prior to commencing 
treatment (see section 4.3). 
When switching patients from another DMT to this medicinal product, the half-life and mode of action 
of the other therapy must be considered in order to avoid an additive immune effect whilst at the same 
time minimising the risk of disease reactivation. A Complete Blood Count (CBC, including 
lymphocytes) is recommended prior to initiating treatment to ensure that immune effects of the 
previous therapy (i.e. cytopenia) have resolved.  
Patients can switch directly from beta interferon or glatiramer acetate to natalizumab providing there 
are no signs of relevant treatment-related abnormalities e.g. neutropenia and lymphopenia.  
When switching from dimethyl fumarate, the washout period should be sufficient for lymphocyte 
count to recover before treatment is started. 
Following discontinuation of fingolimod, lymphocyte count progressively returns to normal range 
within 1 to 2 months after stopping therapy. The washout period should be sufficient for lymphocyte 
count to recover before treatment is started. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Teriflunomide is eliminated slowly from the plasma. Without an accelerated elimination procedure, 
clearance of teriflunomide from plasma can take from several months up to 2 years. An accelerated 
elimination procedure as defined in the teriflunomide Summary of Product Characteristics is 
recommended or alternatively washout period should not be shorter than 3.5 months. Caution 
regarding potential concomitant immune effects is required when switching patients from 
teriflunomide to this medicinal product. 
Alemtuzumab has profound prolonged immunosuppressive effects. As the actual duration of these 
effects is unknown, initiating treatment with this medicinal product after alemtuzumab is not 
recommended unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks for the individual patient. 
Immunogenicity 
Disease exacerbations or injection related events may indicate the development of antibodies against 
natalizumab. In these cases the presence of antibodies should be evaluated and if these remain positive 
in a confirmatory test after at least 6 weeks, treatment should be discontinued, as persistent antibodies 
are associated with a substantial decrease in efficacy of this medicinal product and an increased 
incidence of hypersensitivity reactions (see section 4.8). 
Since patients who have received an initial short exposure to this medicinal product and then had an 
extended period without treatment are at a higher risk of developing anti-natalizumab antibodies 
and/or hypersensitivity upon redosing, the presence of antibodies should be evaluated and if these 
remain positive in a confirmatory test after at least 6 weeks, the patient should not receive further 
treatment with natalizumab (see section 5.1). 
Hepatic events 
Spontaneous serious adverse reactions of liver injury have been reported during the post-marketing 
phase (see section 4.8). These liver injuries may occur at any time during treatment, even after the first 
dose. In some instances, the reaction reoccurred when treatment was reintroduced. Some patients with 
a past medical history of an abnormal liver test have experienced an exacerbation of abnormal liver 
test while on treatment. Patients should be monitored as appropriate for impaired liver function, and be 
instructed to contact their physician in case signs and symptoms suggestive of liver injury occur, such 
as jaundice and vomiting. In cases of significant liver injury this medicinal product should be 
discontinued. 
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia, including immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), has been reported with the 
use of natalizumab. Delay in the diagnosis and treatment of thrombocytopenia may lead to serious and 
life-threatening sequelae. Patients should be instructed to report to their physician immediately if they 
experience any signs of unusual or prolonged bleeding, petechiae, or spontaneous bruising. If 
thrombocytopenia is identified, discontinuation of natalizumab should be considered. 
Stopping therapy 
If a decision is made to stop treatment with natalizumab, the physician needs to be aware that 
natalizumab remains in the blood, and has pharmacodynamic effects (e.g increased lymphocyte 
counts) for approximately 12 weeks following the last dose. Starting other therapies during this 
interval will result in a concomitant exposure to natalizumab. For medicinal products such as 
interferon and glatiramer acetate, concomitant exposure of this duration was not associated with safety 
risks in clinical trials. No data are available in MS patients regarding concomitant exposure with 
immunosuppressant medication. Use of these medicinal products soon after the discontinuation of 
natalizumab may lead to an additive immunosuppressive effect. This should be carefully considered 
on a case-by-case basis, and a wash-out period of natalizumab might be appropriate. Short courses of 
steroids used to treat relapses were not associated with increased infections in clinical trials. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose (300 mg natalizumab), 
that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Natalizumab is contraindicated in combination with other DMTs (see section 4.3). 
Immunisations 
In a randomised, open label study of 60 patients with relapsing MS there was no significant difference 
in the humoral immune response to a recall antigen (tetanus toxoid) and only slightly slower and 
reduced humoral immune response to a neoantigen (keyhole limpet haemocyanin) was observed in 
patients who were treated with this medicinal product for 6 months compared to an untreated control 
group. Live vaccines have not been studied. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
If a woman becomes pregnant while taking this medicinal product, discontinuation of treatment should 
be considered. A benefit/risk evaluation of the use of this medicinal product during pregnancy should 
take into account the patient’s clinical condition and the possible return of disease activity after 
stopping the medicinal product. 
Pregnancy 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
Data from clinical trials, a prospective pregnancy registry, post-marketing cases and available 
literature do not suggest an effect of this medicinal product exposure on pregnancy outcomes. 
The completed prospective Tysabri pregnancy registry contained 355 pregnancies with available 
outcomes. There were 316 live births, 29 of which were reported to have birth defects. Sixteen of the 
29 were classified as major defects. The rate of defects corresponds to the defect rates reported in 
other pregnancy registries involving MS patients. There is no evidence of a specific pattern of birth 
defects with this medicinal product. 
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of natalizumab therapy in pregnant women.  
Thrombocytopenia and anaemia in infants born to women exposed to natalizumab during pregnancy 
were reported in the postmarketing setting. Monitoring of platelet counts and haemoglobin is 
recommended in neonates born to women exposed to natalizumab during pregnancy.  
This drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. If a woman becomes pregnant 
while taking natalizumab, discontinuation of natalizumab should be considered. 
Breast-feeding 
Natalizumab is excreted in human milk. The effect of natalizumab on newborn/infants is unknown. 
Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with natalizumab. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
Reductions in female guinea pig fertility were observed in one study at doses in excess of the human 
dose; natalizumab did not affect male fertility. It is considered unlikely that natalizumab will affect 
fertility performance in humans following the maximum recommended dose.  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tysabri has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness may occur following 
administration of natalizumab (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety profile observed for natalizumab administered subcutaneously was consistent with the 
known safety profile of natalizumab administered intravenously, with the exception of injection site 
pain. The overall frequency of injection site pain was common 4% (3/71) for subjects receiving 
natalizumab 300 mg, every 4 weeks, by subcutaneous administration.   
In placebo-controlled trials in 1,617 MS patients treated with natalizumab (intravenous infusion), for 
up to 2 years (placebo: 1,135), adverse events leading to discontinuation of therapy occurred in 5.8% 
of patients treated with natalizumab (placebo: 4.8%). Over the 2-year duration of the studies, 43.5% of 
patients treated with natalizumab reported adverse reactions (placebo: 39.6%).  
In clinical trials in 6786 patients treated with natalizumab (intravenous infusion and subcutaneous 
injection), the most frequently occurring adverse reactions were headache (32%), nasopharyngitis 
(27%), fatigue (23%), urinary tract infection (16%), nausea (15%), arthralgia (14%), and dizziness 
(11%) associated with natalizumab administration. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions arising from clinical studies, post-authorisation safety studies and spontaneous 
reports are presented in Table 1 below. Within the system organ classes they are listed under the 
following headings: Very common (≥1/10); Common (≥1/100 to <1/10); Uncommon (≥1/1 000 to 
<1/100); Rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000); Very rare (<1/10 000), not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse reactions  
MedDRA 
System Organ 
Class 
Infections and 
infestations  
Very Common 
Common 
Nasopharyngitis  
Urinary tract 
infection  
Herpes 
infection 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
Rare  
Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy 
Herpes ophthalmic 
Not known 
Meningoencephalitis 
herpetic  
JC virus granule 
cell neuropathy  
Necrotising 
herpetic retinopathy 
Immune system 
disorders  
Hypersensitivity  Anaphylactic 
reaction 
Immune 
reconstitution 
inflammatory 
syndrome  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA 
System Organ 
Class 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system disorders  
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
Investigations  
Injury, 
poisoning and 
procedural 
complications  
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Vascular 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders  
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders  
Very Common 
Common 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
Rare  
Not known 
Anaemia 
Thrombocytopenia, 
Immune 
thrombocytopenic 
purpura (ITP), 
Eosinophilia 
Haemolytic anaemia  
Nucleated red cells  
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Liver injury  
Hepatic 
enzyme 
increased 
Drug specific 
antibody 
present  
Dyspnoea  
Infusion related 
reaction  
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Pyrexia   
Chills  
Infusion site 
reaction 
Injection site 
reaction 
Pruritus  
Rash  
Urticaria  
Flushing  
Fatigue  
Dizziness 
Headache  
Arthralgia  
Face oedema  
Angioedema  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Hypersensitivity  reactions  usually  occurred  within  one  hour  after  completion  of  the  subcutaneous 
injections. The number of patients analysed in the DELIVER and REFINE studies was low (see section 
5.1). 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients receiving natalizumab intravenously, hypersensitivity 
reactions occurred in up to 4% of patients. Anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions occurred in less than 
1% of patients receiving this medicinal product. Hypersensitivity reactions usually occurred during the 
infusion  or  within  the  1-hour  period  after  the  completion  of  the  infusion  (see  section  4.4).  In  post-
marketing experience, there have been reports of hypersensitivity reactions which have occurred with 
one  or  more  of  the  following  associated  symptoms:  hypotension,  hypertension,  chest  pain,  chest 
discomfort, dyspnoea, angioedema, in addition to more usual symptoms such as rash and urticaria. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity 
In 10% of patients antibodies against natalizumab were detected in 2-year controlled clinical trials in 
MS patients receiving natalizumab intravenously. Persistent anti-natalizumab antibodies (one positive 
test  reproducible  on  retesting  at  least  6 weeks  later)  developed  in  approximately  6%  of  patients. 
Antibodies were detected on only one occasion in an additional 4% of patients. Persistent antibodies 
were  associated  with  a  substantial  decrease  in  the  effectiveness  of  natalizumab  and  an  increased 
incidence of hypersensitivity reactions. Additional infusion-related reactions associated with persistent 
antibodies included rigors, nausea, vomiting and flushing (see section 4.4). In the 32-week DELIVER 
study  in  MS  patients  with  no  prior  exposure  to  natalizumab,  persistent  anti-natalizumab  antibodies 
developed in 1 subject (4%) from 26 subjects who received natalizumab subcutaneously.  Antibodies 
were detected on only one occasion in another 5 subjects (19%). In the 60-week REFINE study in MS 
patients,  no  subjects  (136  subjects)  who  switched  from  natalizumab  intravenous  administration  to 
subcutaneous administration had detectable ADA during the study (see section 5.1).   
If, after approximately 6 months of therapy, persistent antibodies are suspected, either due to reduced 
efficacy or due to occurrence of infusion-related events, they may be detected and confirmed with a 
subsequent test 6 weeks after the first positive test. Given that efficacy may be reduced or the 
incidence of hypersensitivity or infusion-related reactions may be increased in a patient with persistent 
antibodies, treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop persistent antibodies. 
Infections, including PML and opportunistic infections 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients, the rate of infection was approximately 1.5 per 
patient-year in both natalizumab (intravenously)- and placebo-treated patients. The nature of the 
infections was generally similar in natalizumab- and placebo-treated patients. A case of 
cryptosporidium diarrhoea was reported in MS clinical trials. In other clinical trials, cases of additional 
opportunistic infections have been reported, some of which were fatal. The majority of patients did not 
interrupt natalizumab therapy during infections and recovery occurred with appropriate treatment. 
In clinical trials (intravenous formulation), herpes infections (Varicella-Zoster virus, Herpes-simplex 
virus) occurred slightly more frequently in natalizumab-treated patients than in placebo-treated 
patients. In post-marketing experience, serious, life-threatening, and sometimes fatal cases of 
encephalitis and meningitis caused by herpes simplex or varicella zoster have been reported in 
multiple sclerosis patients receiving natalizumab. The duration of treatment with natalizumab prior to 
onset ranged from a few months to several years (see section 4.4). 
In postmarketing experience, rare cases of ARN have been observed in patients receiving this 
medicinal product. Some cases have occurred in patients with central nervous system (CNS) herpes 
infections (e.g. herpes meningitis and encephalitis). Serious cases of ARN, either affecting one or both 
eyes, led to blindness in some patients. The treatment reported in these cases included anti-viral 
therapy and in some cases, surgery (see section 4.4). 
Cases of PML have been reported from clinical trials, post-marketing observational studies and post-
marketing passive surveillance. PML usually leads to severe disability or death (see section 4.4). 
Cases of JCV GCN have also been reported during postmarketing use of this medicinal product 
Symptoms of JCV GCN are similar to PML. 
Hepatic events 
Spontaneous cases of serious liver injuries, increased liver enzymes, hyperbilirubinaemia have been 
reported during the post-marketing phase (see section 4.4). 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anaemia and haemolytic anaemia 
Rare, serious cases of anaemia and haemolytic anaemia have been reported in patients treated with 
natalizumab in post-marketing observational studies. 
Malignancies 
No differences in incidence rates or the nature of malignancies between natalizumab- and 
placebo-treated patients were observed over 2 years of treatment. However, observation over longer 
treatment periods is required before any effect of natalizumab on malignancies can be excluded (see 
section 4.3). 
Effects on laboratory tests 
In 2-year controlled clinical trials in MS patients treatment with natalizumab was associated with 
increases in circulating lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, basophils and nucleated red blood cells. 
Elevations in neutrophils were not seen. Increases from baseline for lymphocytes, monocytes, 
eosinophils and basophils ranged from 35% to 140% for individual cell types but mean cell counts 
remained within normal ranges with intravenous infusion administration. During treatment with this 
medicinal product, small reductions in haemoglobin (mean decrease 0.6 g/dL), haematocrit (mean 
decrease 2%) and red blood cell counts (mean decrease 0.1 x 106/L) were seen. All changes in 
haematological variables returned to pre-treatment values, usually within 16 weeks of last dose of the 
medicinal product and the changes were not associated with clinical symptoms. In post-marketing 
experience, there have also been reports of eosinophilia (eosinophil count >1,500/mm3) without 
clinical symptoms. In such cases where therapy was discontinued the elevated eosinophil levels 
resolved. 
Thrombocytopenia  
In post-marketing experience, thrombocytopenia and immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) have 
been reported with uncommon frequency. 
Paediatric population 
Serious adverse events were evaluated in 621 MS paediatric patients included in a meta-analysis (see 
also section 5.1). Within the limitations of these data, there were no new safety signals identified in 
this patient population. 1 case of herpes meningitis was reported in the meta-analysis. No cases of 
PML were identified in the meta-analysis, however, PML has been reported in natalizumab-treated 
paediatric patients in the post-marketing setting. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Safety of doses higher than 300 mg has not been adequately evaluated. The maximum amount of 
natalizumab that can be safely administered has not been determined.  
There is no known antidote for natalizumab overdose. Treatment consists of discontinuation of the 
medicinal product and supportive therapy as needed. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: 
L04AA23 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Natalizumab is a selective adhesion-molecule inhibitor and binds to the α4-subunit of human integrins, 
which is highly expressed on the surface of all leukocytes, with the exception of neutrophils. 
Specifically, natalizumab binds to the α4β1 integrin, blocking the interaction with its cognate receptor, 
vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and ligands osteopontin, and an alternatively spliced 
domain of fibronectin, connecting segment-1 (CS-1). Natalizumab blocks the interaction of α4β7 
integrin with the mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule-1 (MadCAM-1). Disruption of these 
molecular interactions prevents transmigration of mononuclear leukocytes across the endothelium into 
inflamed parenchymal tissue. A further mechanism of action of natalizumab may be to suppress 
ongoing inflammatory reactions in diseased tissues by inhibiting the interaction of α4-expressing 
leukocytes with their ligands in the extracellular matrix and on parenchymal cells. As such, 
natalizumab may act to suppress inflammatory activity present at the disease site, and inhibit further 
recruitment of immune cells into inflamed tissues. 
In MS, lesions are believed to occur when activated T-lymphocytes cross the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB). Leukocyte migration across the BBB involves interaction between adhesion molecules on 
inflammatory cells and endothelial cells of the vessel wall. The interaction between α4β1 and its 
targets is an important component of pathological inflammation in the brain and disruption of these 
interactions leads to reduced inflammation. Under normal conditions, VCAM-1 is not expressed in the 
brain parenchyma. However, in the presence of pro-inflammatory cytokines, VCAM-1 is upregulated 
on endothelial cells and possibly on glial cells near the sites of inflammation. In the setting of central 
nervous system (CNS) inflammation in MS, it is the interaction of α4β1 with VCAM-1, CS-1 and 
osteopontin that mediates the firm adhesion and transmigration of leukocytes into the brain 
parenchyma and may perpetuate the inflammatory cascade in CNS tissue. Blockade of the molecular 
interactions of α4β1 with its targets reduces inflammatory activity present in the brain in MS and 
inhibits further recruitment of immune cells into inflamed tissue, thus reducing the formation or 
enlargement of MS lesions. 
The EC50 of natalizumab binding to α4β1 integrin is estimated to be 2.04 mg/L based on a population 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model. There was no difference in α4β1integrin binding after 
natalizumab 300 mg every 4 weeks was administered subcutaneously or intravenously. Mean PD 
(alpha-4 saturation on mononuclear lymphocyte cells) was similar between the intravenous 
administration Q6W and Q4W regimens, with the difference in mean % alpha-4 saturation ranging 
from 9 to 16%. 
Clinical efficacy 
Based on similarities in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics between intravenous and 
subcutaneous administration, the efficacy data from intravenous infusion is provided as well as those 
from patients receiving the subcutaneous injection. 
AFFIRM clinical study  
Efficacy as monotherapy for intravenous infusion has been evaluated in one randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study lasting 2 years (AFFIRM study) in RRMS patients who had experienced at 
least 1 clinical relapse during the year prior to entry and had a Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status 
Scale (EDSS) score between 0 and 5. Median age was 37 years, with a median disease duration of 
5 years. The patients were randomised with a 2:1 ratio to receive natalizumab 300 mg (n = 627) or 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo (n = 315) every 4 weeks for up to 30 infusions. Neurological evaluations were performed 
every 12 weeks and at times of suspected relapse. MRI evaluations for T1-weighted gadolinium 
(Gd)-enhancing lesions and T2-hyperintense lesions were performed annually. 
Study features and results are presented in the Table 2. 
Table 2.  AFFIRM study: Main features and results  
Design  
Subjects  
Treatment 
One year endpoint 
Two year endpoint 
Secondary endpoints  
Subjects  
Randomised  
Completing 1 years   
Completing 2 years   
Age yrs, median (range) 
MS-history yrs, median (range) 
Time since diagnosis, yrs median 
(range) 
Relapses in previous 12 months, 
median (range) 
EDSS-baseline, median (range) 
RESULTS  
Annual relapse rate  
Monotherapy; randomised double-blind placebo-controlled 
parallel-group trial for 120 weeks 
RRMS (McDonald criteria) 
Placebo / Natalizumab 300 mg i.v. every 4 weeks 
Relapse rate 
Progression on EDSS 
Relapse rate derived variables / MRI-derived variables 
Placebo 
315 
296 
285 
37 (19-50) 
6.0 (0-33) 
2.0 (0-23) 
1.0 (0-5) 
2 (0-6.0) 
Natalizumab 
627 
609 
589 
36 (18-50) 
5.0 (0-34) 
2.0 (0-24) 
1.0 (0-12) 
2 (0-6.0) 
After one year (primary endpoint)   
After two years 
0.805 
0.733 
0.261 
0.235 
One year   
Two years  
Rate ratio 0.33 CI95% 0.26 ; 0.41 
Rate ratio 0.32 CI95% 0.26 ; 0.40 
Relapse free  
After one year   
After two years 
Disability  
Proportion progressed1(12-week 
confirmation; primary outcome) 
Proportion progressed1(24-week 
confirmation) 
MRI (0-2 years) 
Median % change in T2-
hyperintense lesion volume 
Mean number of new or newly-
enlarging T2-hyperintense lesions 
Mean number of T1-hypointense 
lesions 
Mean number of Gd-enhancing 
lesions 
53% 
41% 
29% 
76% 
67% 
17% 
Hazard ratio 0.58, CI95% 0.43; 0.73, p<0.001 
23% 
11% 
Hazard ratio 0.46, CI95% 0.33; 0.64, p<0.001 
+8.8% 
11.0 
4.6 
1.2 
-9.4% 
(p<0.001) 
1.9 
(p<0.001) 
1.1 
(p<0.001) 
0.1 
(p<0.001) 
1 Progression of disability was defined as at least a 1.0 point increase on the EDSS from a baseline EDSS >=1.0 sustained 
for 12 or 24 weeks or at least a 1.5 point increase on the EDSS from a baseline EDSS =0 sustained for 12 or 24 weeks. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the sub-group of patients indicated for treatment of rapidly evolving RRMS (patients with 2 or more 
relapses and 1 or more Gd+ lesion), the annualised relapse rate was 0.282 in the natalizumab-treated 
group (n = 148) and 1.455 in the placebo group (n = 61) (p < 0.001). Hazard ratio for disability 
progression was 0.36 (95% CI: 0.17, 0.76) p = 0.008. These results were obtained from a post hoc 
analysis and should be interpreted cautiously. No information on the severity of the relapses before 
inclusion of patients in the study is available. 
Tysabri Observational Program (TOP) 
Interim analysis of results (as of May 2015) from the ongoing Tysabri Observational Program (TOP), 
a phase 4, multicentre, single-arm study (n = 5,770) demonstrated that patients switching from beta 
interferon (n= 3,255) or glatiramer acetate (n = 1,384) to Tysabri showed a sustained, significant 
decrease in annualised relapse rate (p < 0.0001). Mean EDSS scores remained stable over 5 years. 
Consistent with efficacy results observed for patients switching from beta interferon or glatiramer 
acetate to Tysabri, for patients switching from fingolimod (n = 147) to this medicinal product, a 
significant decrease in annualised relapse rate (ARR) was observed, which remained stable over 2 
years, and mean EDSS scores remained similar from baseline to Year 2. The limited sample size and 
shorter duration of natalizumab exposure for this subgroup of patients should be considered when 
interpreting these data. 
Paediatric population 
A post-marketing meta-analysis was conducted using data from 621 paediatric MS patients treated 
with natalizumab (median age 17 years, range was 7 to 18 years, 91% aged ≥14 years). Within this 
analysis, a limited subset of patients with data available prior to treatment (158 of the 621 patients) 
demonstrated a reduction in ARR from 1.466 (95% CI 1.337, 1.604) prior to treatment to 0.110 (95% 
CI 0.094, 0.128). 
Extended interval dosing 
In a pre-specified, retrospective analysis of US anti-JCV antibody positive Tysabri patients 
intravenously administered (TOUCH prescribing program), the risk of PML was compared between 
patients treated with the approved dosing interval and patients treated with extended interval dosing as 
identified in the last 18 months of exposure (EID, average dosing intervals of approximately 6 weeks). 
The majority (85%) of patients dosed with EID had received the approved dosing for ≥1 year prior to 
switching to EID. The analysis showed a lower risk of PML in patients treated with EID (hazard ratio 
= 0.06, 95% CI of hazard ratio = 0.01 to 0.22). The efficacy of this medicinal product when 
administered with EID has not been established, and therefore the benefit/risk balance of EID is 
unknown (see section 4.4). 
Efficacy has been modelled for patients who switch to longer dosing after ≥1 year of approved dosing 
with this medicinal product under intravenous administration and who did not experience a relapse in 
the year prior to switching. Current pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic statistical modelling and 
simulation indicate that the risk of MS disease activity for patients switching to longer dosing intervals 
may be higher for patients with dosing intervals ≥7 weeks. No prospective clinical studies have been 
completed to validate these findings.  
No clinical data are available on either the safety or efficacy of this extended interval dosing with the 
subcutaneous route of administration.  
REFINE clinical study (subcutaneous formulation, population pre-treated with natalizumab 
[intravenous infusion] for a minimum of 12 months) 
Subcutaneous administration was assessed in a randomised, blinded, parallel-group, phase 2 study 
(REFINE) exploring the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of multiple regimens of natalizumab (300 mg 
intravenous every 4 weeks, 300 mg subcutaneous every 4 weeks, 300 mg intravenous every 12 weeks, 
300 mg subcutaneous every 12 weeks, 150 mg intravenous every 12 weeks and 150 mg subcutaneous 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
every 12 weeks) in adult subjects (n=290) with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis conducted over a 
60 week period.  Subjects had received natalizumab for at least 12 months and were free from relapse 
for 12 months prior to randomisation.  The primary objective of this study was to explore the effects of 
multiple regimens of natalizumab on disease activity and safety in subjects with RRMS. The primary 
endpoint of this study was the cumulative number of combined unique active (CUA) MRI lesions 
(sum of new Gd+ lesions on brain MRI and new or newly enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions not 
associated with Gd+ on T1 weighted scans). The mean CUA for the 300 mg subcutaneous every 
4 week arm was low (0.02) and comparable to the 300 mg intravenous every 4 weeks arm (0.23). The 
CUA in the every 12 week treatment arms was significantly higher than the every 4 week treatment 
arms resulting in the early discontinuation of the every 12 week arms. Due to the exploratory nature of 
this study, no formal efficacy comparisons were made. 
DELIVER clinical study (subcutaneous formulation, natalizumab naïve population) 
The efficacy and safety of natalizumab for subcutaneous administration in the natalizumab naïve MS 
population was evaluated in a phase 1 randomised, open-label, dose-ranging study (DELIVER). 12 
subjects with RRMS and 14 subjects with secondary progressive MS were enrolled in the 
subcutaneous treatment arms. The study’s primary objective was to compare the pharmacokinetics 
(PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of single subcutaneous or intramuscular 300-mg doses of 
natalizumab with intravenous infusion 300-mg doses of natalizumab in patients with multiple sclerosis 
(MS). Secondary objectives included investigation of the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of 
repeated subcutaneous and intramuscular natalizumab doses. An exploratory endpoint of this study 
included the number of new Gd+ lesions on brain MRI from baseline to Week 32.  None of the 
subjects treated with natalizumab had any Gd+ lesions post-baseline, regardless of their disease stage 
(RRMS or secondary progressive MS), assigned route of administration, or the presence of Gd+ 
lesions at baseline. Across the RRMS and secondary progressive MS populations, 2 patients in the 
natalizumab 300 mg subcutaneous group experienced relapses compared to 3 patients in the 
natalizumab 300 mg intravenous infusion group. Small sample sizes and inter- and intra-patient 
variability prevent meaningful comparisons of efficacy data between groups. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of natalizumab after subcutaneous administration was evaluated in 2 studies. 
DELIVER was a phase 1, randomised, open-label, dose-ranging study to evaluate the 
pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous and intramuscular natalizumab in subjects with MS (RRMS or 
secondary progressive MS) (n = 76). (see section 5.1 for a description of the REFINE study).  
An updated population pharmacokinetic analysis was conducted consisting of 11 studies (conducted 
with subcutaneously and intravenously administered natalizumab) and data with serial PK sampling as 
measured by an industry standard assay. It included over 1,286 subjects receiving doses ranging from 
1 to 6 mg/kg and fixed doses of 150/ 300 mg. 
Absorption 
The absorption from the injection site to systemic circulation following SC administration was 
characterised by first order absorption with a model estimated delay of 3 hours. No covariates were 
identified.  
The bioavailability of natalizumab after subcutaneous administration was 84% as estimated using the 
updated population pharmacokinetic analysis. After SC administration of 300 mg natalizumab, peak 
values (Cmax) were reached by approximately 1 week (tmax: 5.8 days, range from 2 to 7.9 days). 
The mean Cmax for RRMS participants was 35.44 μg/mL (range 22.0 to 47.8 μg/mL) being 33% of 
the peak values achieved following IV administration. 
Multiple subcutaneous doses of 300 mg administered every 4 weeks resulted in comparable Ctrough to 
300 mg administered intravenously every 4 weeks. The predicted time to steady-state was 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approximately 24 weeks. In both intravenous and subcutaneous administration of natalizumab (every 
4 weeks) Ctrough values resulted in comparable α4β1 integrin binding. 
Distribution 
Both intravenous and subcutaneous routes of administration shared the same disposition PK 
parameters (CL, Vss and t½) and same sets of covariates as described in the updated population 
pharmacokinetic analysis. 
Median steady-state volume of distribution was 5.58 L (5.27-5.92 L, 95% confidence interval). 
Elimination 
Population median estimate for linear clearance was 6.21 mL/h (5.60-6.70 mL/h, 95% confidence 
interval) and the estimated median half-life was 26.8 days. The 95th percentile interval of the terminal 
half-life is from 11.6 to 46.2 days. 
The population analysis of 1,286 patients explored the effects of selected covariates including body 
weight, age, gender, presence of anti-natalizumab antibodies and formulation on pharmacokinetics. 
Only body weight, the presence of anti-natalizumab antibodies and the formulation used in phase 2 
studies were found to influence natalizumab disposition. Natalizumab clearance increased with body 
weight in a less than proportional manner, such that a +/-43% change in body weight resulted in only a 
-38% to 36% change in clearance. The presence of persistent anti-natalizumab antibodies increased 
natalizumab clearance approximately 2.54-fold, consistent with reduced serum natalizumab 
concentrations observed in persistently antibody-positive patients.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. 
Consistent with the pharmacological activity of natalizumab, altered trafficking of lymphocytes was 
seen as white blood cell increases as well as increased spleen weights in most in vivo studies. These 
changes were reversible and did not appear to have any adverse toxicological consequences. 
In studies conducted in mice, growth and metastasis of melanoma and lymphoblastic leukaemia 
tumour cells was not increased by the administration of natalizumab. 
No clastogenic or mutagenic effects of natalizumab were observed in the Ames or human 
chromosomal aberration assays. Natalizumab showed no effects on in vitro assays of 
α4-integrin-positive tumour line proliferation or cytotoxicity. 
Reductions in female guinea pig fertility were observed in one study at doses in excess of the human 
dose; natalizumab did not affect male fertility. 
The effect of natalizumab on reproduction was evaluated in 5 studies, 3 in guinea pigs and 2 in 
cynomolgus monkeys. These studies showed no evidence of teratogenic effects or effects on growth of 
offspring. In one study in guinea pigs, a small reduction in pup survival was noted. In a study in 
monkeys, the number of abortions was doubled in the natalizumab 30 mg/kg treatment groups versus 
matching control groups. This was the result of a high incidence of abortions in treated groups in the 
first cohort that was not observed in the second cohort. No effects on abortion rates were noted in any 
other study. A study in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys demonstrated natalizumab-related changes in 
the foetus that included mild anaemia, reduced platelet counts, increased spleen weights and reduced 
liver and thymus weights. These changes were associated with increased splenic extramedullary 
haematopoiesis, thymic atrophy and decreased hepatic haematopoiesis. Platelet counts were also 
reduced in offspring born to mothers treated with natalizumab until parturition, however there was no 
39 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evidence of anaemia in these offspring. All changes were observed at doses in excess of the human 
dose and were reversed upon clearance of natalizumab. 
In cynomolgus monkeys treated with natalizumab until parturition, low levels of natalizumab were 
detected in the breast milk of some animals. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium phosphate, monobasic, monohydrate 
Sodium phosphate, dibasic, heptahydrate 
Sodium chloride 
Polysorbate 80 (E 433) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2˚C - 8˚C). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
The pre-filled syringes (PFS) can be kept in their original packaging for up to 24 hours at room 
temperature (up to 25o C). The PFS must not be returned to refrigeration. Do not use external heat 
sources such as hot water to warm the PFS. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Each PFS consists of a pre-filled syringe made of glass (Type 1A) with a rubber stopper and 
thermoplastic rigid needle shield, containing 1 mL of solution. A 27 gauge needle is pre-affixed to the 
syringe. Each PFS has a needle guard system that will automatically cover the exposed needle when 
the plunger is fully depressed. 
Pack size of two PFS per carton.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/06/346/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 27th June 2006 
Date of latest renewal: 18th April 2016 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency https://www.ema.europa.eu. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE  
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
Biogen Inc 
5000 Davis Drive 
Research Triangle Park 
NC 27709-4627 
USA 
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
DK-3400 Hillerød 
Denmark 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
DK-3400 Hillerød 
Denmark 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Based on how patients treated with Tysabri are currently monitored at national level, the MAH shall 
discuss and agree with the National Competent Authorities measures to enhance further this 
monitoring (e.g. registries, post-marketing surveillance studies) as appropriate. The MAH shall 
implement agreed measures for monitoring within a time frame agreed with the National Competent 
Authorities. 
The educational programme is aimed at educating healthcare professionals and patients/carers of the 
potential and risk factors for the development of PML, its diagnosis and treatment, and the 
identification and management of possible sequelae. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Tysabri is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe/use Tysabri have access to/are 
provided with the educational materials listed below. Prior to implementation, the MAH must agree on 
the content and format of the educational materials, including communication media, distribution 
modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority. 
• Educational materials for HCPs: 
˗  Summary of Product Characteristics  
˗  Physician Information and Management Guidelines 
˗  For HCPs Administering Tysabri SC Outside a Clinical Setting (OCS): 
  OCS Administration Checklist 
  HCP Informational Supplement  
• Patient information pack: 
˗  Package leaflet 
˗  Patient alert card 
˗  Treatment initiation and treatment continuation forms 
˗  Treatment discontinuation form 
These educational materials shall contain the following key elements: 
Physician Information and Management Guidelines: 
• Background information on the increased risk of atypical/opportunistic infections, in particular 
PML, which may occur with Tysabri therapy, including a detailed discussion of data (including 
epidemiology, aetiology, and pathology) pertaining to the development of PML in Tysabri-
treated patients.  
44 
 
 
 
• Information relating to the identification of risk factors for Tysabri-associated PML, including 
details of the PML risk estimates algorithm summarising PML risk by risk factor (anti-John 
Cunningham virus [JCV] antibody status, prior IS use, and duration of treatment [by year of 
treatment]), and stratification of this risk by index value when applicable.  
• Information on extending the dosing interval for PML risk mitigation, including a reminder 
of the approved dosing schedule. The decrease in PML risk is based on data from intravenous 
administration. No clinical data are available on either the safety or efficacy of dosing every 6 
weeks with subcutaneous administration. 
• Inclusion of monitoring guidance for MRI and anti-JCV antibody based on PML risk, 
including recommended timing, protocols, and interpretation of results. 
• Details regarding the diagnosis of PML, including principles, clinical assessment (including 
MRI and laboratory testing), and differentiation between PML and MS. 
• Management recommendations in the event of cases of suspected PML, including 
considerations on the the effectiveness of PLEX treatment and the management of associated 
IRIS. 
• Detail on the prognosis on PML, including information on improved outcomes observed in 
asymptomatic PML cases.  
• A reminder that irrespective of the presence or absence of PML risk factors, heightened clinical 
vigilance for PML should be maintained in all patients treated with Tysabri and for 6 months 
following discontinuation of therapy. 
• A statement that all data available to characterise PML risk are from the IV route of 
administration. Considering the similar PD profiles, the same PML risk and relevant risk factors 
are assumed for different routes of administration. 
• A reminder on the need to discuss the benefit/risk profile of Tysabri treatment with the patient, 
and the requirement to provide the patient information pack.  
• Reminder that it is the responsibility of the treating specialised physician to determine the 
patient’s suitability for Tysabri SC administration OCS at regular intervals, and to ensure 
appropriate monitoring for PML (including risk factors and MRI screening). 
• A statement that the administration of Tysabri SC OCS does not replace the need for regular 
contact with and clinical monitoring by the patient’s treating specialised physician. 
OCS Administration Checklist: 
• The OCS Administration Checklist is to be completed and the accompanying Decision Tree is to 
be referred to by the HCP for each patient, prior to each administration of Tysabri SC OCS. It is 
designed to aid the administering HCP in identifying risk factors for and early signs and 
symptoms of PML.  
• Guidance based on patient/caregiver Checklist responses for escalation to the supervising 
specialised physician, whose responsibility it remains to determine next steps regarding the 
appropriateness and timing of Tysabri administration, if signs, symptoms, or new risk factors for 
PML are suspected. 
45 
•  A statement that the checklist is not intended to be a substitute for consultation with the 
patient’s treating specialised physician.  
HCP Informational Supplement: 
• Background information on PML, to allow for better HCP understanding and usability of the 
OCS Administration Checklist. 
• Information relating to the identification of risk factors for Tysabri-associated PML, including 
details of the PML risk estimates algorithm summarising PML risk by risk factor (anti-John 
Cunningham virus [JCV] antibody status, prior IS use, and duration of treatment [by year of 
treatment]), and stratification of this risk by index value when applicable. 
• A reminder that irrespective of the presence or absence of PML risk factors, heightened clinical 
vigilance for PML should be maintained in all patients treated with Tysabri and for 6 months 
following discontinuation of therapy. 
• Details regarding clinical assessment in PML, including clinical features that may help 
differentiate MS lesions from PML. 
• A statement that all data available to characterise PML risk are from the IV route of 
administration. Considering the similar PD profiles, the same PML risk and relevant risk factors 
are assumed for different routes of administration. 
• Reminder that the patient must receive the Patient Alert Card and that the card can be requested 
from the local Biogen affiliate. 
• Reminder that it is the responsibility of the treating specialised physician to determine the 
patient’s suitability for Tysabri SC administration OCS at regular intervals, and to ensure 
appropriate monitoring for PML (including risk factors and MRI screening). 
• A statement that the administration of Tysabri SC OCS does not replace the need for regular 
contact with and clinical monitoring by the patient’s treating specialised physician. 
Patient alert card:  
•  Reminder to patients to show the card to any doctor and/or caregiver involved with their 
treatment, and to keep the card with them for 6 months after the last dose of Tysabri treatment.  
•  Reminder to patients to read the package leaflet carefully before starting Tysabri, and not to 
start Tysabri if there is a serious problem with their immune system. 
•  Reminder to patients no to take any other long-term medicines for MS while receiving Tysabri. 
•  A description of PML, potential symptoms and management of PML. 
•  A reminder of where to report side effects. 
•  Details of the patient, treating doctor and date Tysabri was started. 
46 
Treatment initiation and treatment continuation forms: 
• Information on PML and IRIS, including the risk of developing PML during Tysabri treatment 
stratified by prior treatment with immunosuppressants and JCV infection.  
• Confirmation that the doctor has discussed the risks of PML and the risk of IRIS if treatment is 
discontinued following suspicion of PML, and confirmation of patient understanding of the risks 
of PML and that they have received a copy of the treatment initiation form and a patient alert 
card.  
• Patient details and prescriber name. 
• The treatment continuation form should contain the elements of the treatment initiation form 
and, in addition, a statement that the risks of PML increase with duration of treatment and that 
treatment beyond 24 months carries additional risk. 
Treatment discontinuation form  
•  Information for the patient that PML has been reported up to 6 months after stopping Tysabri, 
and to therefore keep the patient alert card with them after treatment discontinuation.  
•  Reminder of PML symptoms, and when MRI imaging may be warranted. 
•  Reporting of side effects. 
47 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
TYSABRI 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
natalizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 15 mL vial of concentrate contains 300 mg natalizumab (20 mg per mL). When diluted the 
solution for infusion contains approximately 2.6 mg/mL of natalizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
sodium phosphate, monobasic, monohydrate; sodium phosphate, dibasic, heptahydrate; sodium 
chloride; polysorbate 80 (E 433) and water for injections. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 x 15 mL vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use.  
Dilute before infusion. 
After dilution, do not shake.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/06/346/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
TYSABRI 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
natalizumab 
IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Dilute before infusion. After dilution, do not shake.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
15 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tysabri 150 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
natalizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 150 mg natalizumab in 1 mL solution 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
sodium phosphate, monobasic, monohydrate; sodium phosphate, dibasic, heptahydrate; sodium 
chloride; polysorbate 80 (E 433) and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
2 pre-filled syringes  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY 
Use two 150 mg syringes.  
Full dose = 300 mg. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Store the pre-filled syringe in the original package in order to protect from light  
Syringes can be left at room temperature (up to 25° C) for up to 24 hours. Do not return to the 
refrigerator.   
Record date and time of removal from the refrigerator: 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/06/346/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
SYRINGE TRAY 
1. 
OTHER 
Use two 150 mg syringes  
Full dose = 300 mg  
Text to be contained on peel-off portion: 
2 x Tysabri 150 mg SC 
Lot 
EXP  
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Tysabri 150 mg injection 
natalizumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Tysabri 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
natalizumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
In addition to this leaflet you will be given a patient alert card. This contains important safety 
information that you need to know before and during treatment with Tysabri. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet and the patient alert card. You may need to read them again. Keep the leaflet 
and patient alert card with you during treatment and for six months after the last dose of this 
medicine , as side effects may occur even after you have stopped treatment. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor.  
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Tysabri is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you receive Tysabri 
3. 
4. 
5.  How to store Tysabri 
6. 
How Tysabri is given 
Possible side effects 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Tysabri is and what it is used for 
Tysabri is used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS).  It contains the active substance natalizumab. This is 
called a monoclonal antibody.  
MS causes inflammation in the brain that damages the nerve cells. This inflammation happens when 
white blood cells get into the brain and spinal cord. This medicine stops the white blood cells getting 
through to the brain. This reduces nerve damage caused by MS. 
Symptoms of multiple sclerosis 
The symptoms of MS vary from patient to patient, and you may experience some or none of them.  
They may include: walking problems, numbness in the face, arms or legs; problems with vision; 
tiredness; feeling off-balance or light headed; bladder and bowel problems; difficulty in thinking and 
concentrating; depression; acute or chronic pain; sexual problems; stiffness and muscle spasms.  
When the symptoms flare up, it is called a relapse (also known as an exacerbation or an attack). When 
a relapse occurs, you may notice the symptoms suddenly, within a few hours, or slowly progressing 
over several days. Your symptoms will then usually improve gradually (this is called a remission). 
How Tysabri can help 
In trials, this medicine approximately halved the build-up of disability caused by MS, and decreased 
the number of MS attacks by about two-thirds. While you are treated with  this medicine you might 
not notice any improvement, but it may still be working to prevent your MS becoming worse. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you receive Tysabri 
Before you start treatment with this medicine, it is important that you and your doctor have discussed 
the benefits you could expect to receive from this treatment and the risks that are associated with it. 
You must not be given Tysabri  
•  If you are allergic to natalizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
•  If you have been diagnosed with PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). PML is 
an uncommon infection of the brain. 
•  If your immune system has a serious problem. This may be due to disease (such as HIV), or to 
a medicine you are taking, or have taken in the past (see below). 
•  If you are taking medicines that affect your immune system, including certain other 
medicines used to treat MS. These medicines cannot be used with Tysabri. 
•  If you have cancer (unless it is a type of skin cancer called basal cell carcinoma). 
Warnings and precautions 
You need to discuss with your doctor whether Tysabri is the most suitable treatment for you. Do this 
before you start taking Tysabri, and when you have been receiving Tysabri for more than two years. 
Possible brain infection (PML) 
Some people receiving this medicine (fewer than 1 in 100) have had an uncommon brain infection 
called PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). PML can lead to severe disability or death.  
•  Before starting treatment, all patients will have blood tests arranged by the doctor for JC virus 
infection. JC virus is a common virus that does not normally make you ill. However, PML is 
linked to an increase of JC virus in the brain. The reason for this increase in some patients 
treated with Tysabri is not clear. Before and during treatment, your doctor will test your blood 
to check if you have antibodies to the JC virus, which are a sign that you have been infected by 
the JC virus. 
•  Your doctor will arrange a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan, which will be repeated 
during treatment to rule out PML. 
•  The symptoms of PML may be similar to an MS relapse (see section 4, Possible side effects). 
You can also get PML up to 6 months after stopping Tysabri treatment.  
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice your MS getting worse, if you notice any 
new symptoms while you are on Tysabri treatment or for up to 6 months afterwards.  
•  Tell your partner or caregivers about what to look out for (see also section 4, Possible side 
effects). Some symptoms might be difficult to spot by yourself, such as changes in mood or 
behaviour, confusion, speech and communication difficulties. If you get any of these, you may 
need further tests. Keep looking out for symptoms in the 6 months after stopping  Tysabri.  
•  Keep the patient alert card you have been given by your doctor. It includes this information. 
Show it to your partner or caregivers. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three things can increase your risk of PML with Tysabri. If you have two or more of these risk 
factors, the risk is increased further:  
•  If you have antibodies to the JC virus in your blood. These are a sign that the virus is in your 
body. You will be tested before and during Tysabri treatment.  
•  If you are treated for a long time with Tysabri, especially if it is more than two years. 
•  If you have taken a medicine called an immunosuppressant, that reduces the activity of your 
immune system.  
Another condition, called JCV GCN (JC virus granule cell neuronopathy), is also caused by JC virus 
and has occurred in some patients receiving Tysabri. The symptoms of JCV GNC are similar to PML. 
For those with a lower risk of PML, your doctor may repeat the test regularly to check that: 
•  You still do not have antibodies to the JC virus in your blood.  
•  If you have been treated for more than 2 years, you still have a lower level of JC virus 
antibodies in your blood. 
If someone gets PML  
PML can be treated, and Tysabri treatment will be stopped. However, some people get a reaction as 
Tysabri is removed from the body. This reaction (known as IRIS or immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome) may lead to your condition getting worse, including worsening of brain 
function. 
Look out for other infections 
Some infections other than PML may also be serious and can be due to viruses, bacteria, and other 
causes. 
Tell a doctor or nurse immediately if you think you have an infection (see also section 4, Possible 
side effects). 
Changes in blood platelets 
Natalizumab may reduce platelets in the blood which are responsible for clotting. This may result in a 
condition called thrombocytopenia (see section 4) in which your blood may not clot quickly enough to 
stop bleeding. This can lead to bruising as well as other more serious problems such as excessive 
bleeding. You should talk to your doctor immediately if you have unexplained bruising, red or purple 
spots on the skin (called petechiae), bleeding from skin cuts that does not stop or oozes, prolonged 
bleeding from the gums or nose, blood in urine or stools, or bleeding in the whites of your eyes. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children or adolescents under the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and Tysabri 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.  
•  You must not be given this medicine if you are now being treated with medicines that affect 
your immune system, including certain other medicines to treat your MS. 
•  You might not be able to use this medicine if you have previously had any medicines that affect 
your immune system. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
•  Do not use this medicine if you are pregnant, unless you have discussed this with your 
doctor. Be sure to tell your doctor immediately if you get pregnant, think you may be pregnant, 
or if you are planning to become pregnant. 
•  Do not breast-feed whilst using Tysabri. Your doctor will help you decide whether you 
should choose to stop breast-feeding  or stop using the medicine. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. The risk to the baby and benefit to the mother will 
be taken into consideration by your doctor. 
Driving and using machines 
Dizziness is a very common side effect. If you are affected, do not drive or use machines. 
Tysabri contains sodium 
Each vial of this medicine contains 2.3 mmol (or 52 mg) of sodium. After dilution for use, this 
medicinal product contains 17.7 mmol (or 406 mg) sodium per dose. This should be considered if you 
are on a controlled sodium diet. 
3.  How Tysabri is given 
Tysabri IV infusion will be given to you by a doctor experienced in the treatment of MS. Your doctor 
may switch you directly from another medicine for MS to Tysabri if there are no problems caused by 
your previous treatment.  
•  Your doctor will order blood tests for antibodies to the JC virus and other possible problems.  
•  Your doctor will arrange an MRI scan, which will be repeated during treatment. 
•  To switch from some MS medicines, your doctor may advise you to wait for a certain time to 
ensure that most of the previous medicine has left your body. 
•  For adults the recommended dose is 300 mg, given once every 4 weeks. 
•  Tysabri must be diluted before it is given to you. It is given as a drip into a vein (by intravenous 
infusion), usually in your arm. This takes about 1 hour. 
•  Information for medical or healthcare professionals on how to prepare and administer the 
medicine is provided at the end of this leaflet. 
If you stop using Tysabri 
Regular dosing with Tysabri is important, especially in the first few months of treatment. It is 
important to continue with your medicine for as long as you and your doctor decide that it is helping 
you. Patients who received one or two doses of Tysabri, and then had a gap in treatment of three 
months or more, were more likely to have an allergic reaction when restarting treatment. 
Checking for allergic reactions 
A few patients have had an allergic reaction to this medicine. Your doctor may check for allergic 
reactions during the infusion and for 1 hour afterwards. See also section 4, Possible side effects. 
If you miss your dose of Tysabri 
If you miss your usual dose of Tysabri, arrange with your doctor to receive it as soon as you can. You 
can then continue to receive your dose of Tysabri every 4 weeks. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Will Tysabri always work? 
In a few patients receiving Tysabri, the body’s natural defences may stop the medicine from working 
properly over time, as the body develops antibodies to the medicine. Your doctor can decide whether 
this medicine is not working properly for you from blood tests and will stop the treatment, if 
necessary. 
If you have any further questions on Tysabri, ask your doctor. Always use this medicine exactly as 
described in this leaflet or as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not sure. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Speak to your doctor or nurse immediately if you notice any of the following. 
Signs of a brain infection 
•  Changes in personality and behaviour such as confusion, delirium or loss of consciousness, 
•  Seizures (fits)  
•  Headache  
•  Nausea / vomiting  
•  Stiff neck  
•  Extreme sensitivity to bright light  
•  Fever  
•  Rash (anywhere on the body) 
These symptoms may be caused by an infection of the brain (encephalitis or PML) or its covering 
layer (meningitis). 
Signs of other serious infections 
• An unexplained fever 
• Severe diarrhoea 
• Shortness of breath 
• Prolonged dizziness 
• Headache 
• Weight loss 
• Listlessness 
• Impaired vision 
• Pain or redness of the eye(s) 
Signs of an allergic reaction 
• Itchy rash (hives) 
• Swelling of your face, lips or tongue 
• Difficulty breathing 
• Chest pain or discomfort 
• Increase or decrease in your blood pressure (your doctor or nurse will notice this if they are 
monitoring your blood pressure) 
These are most likely during or shortly after the infusion. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signs of a possible liver problem 
• Yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes 
• Unusual darkening of the urine 
• Abnormal liver function test 
Speak to a doctor or nurse immediately if you get any of the side effects listed above, or if you 
think you have an infection. Show your patient alert card and this package leaflet to any doctor or 
nurse who treats you, not only to your neurologist. 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• Urinary tract infection 
• Sore throat and runny or blocked up nose 
• Headache 
• Dizziness 
• Feeling sick (nausea) 
• Joint pain 
• Tiredness 
• Dizziness, feeling sick (nausea), itching and chills during or shortly after infusion 
Common  (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• Anaemia (decrease in your red blood cells which can make your skin pale and can make you feel 
breathless or lacking energy) 
• Allergy (hypersensitivity)  
• Shivering 
• Itchy rash (hives) 
• Being sick (vomiting) 
• Fever 
• Difficulty breathing (dyspnoea) 
• Reddening of the face or body (flushing) 
• Herpes infections 
• Discomfort around the place you have had your infusion.  You could experience bruising, 
redness, pain, itching or swelling 
Uncommon  (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• Severe allergy (anaphylactic reaction) 
• Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)  
• Inflammatory disorder after discontinuation of the medicinal product 
• Facial swelling  
• An increase in the number of white blood cells (eosinophilia) 
• Reduction in blood platelets  
• Easy bruising (purpura) 
Rare  (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• Herpes infection in the eye 
• Severe anaemia (decrease in your red blood cells which can make your skin pale and can make 
you feel breathless or lacking energy). 
• Severe swelling under the skin 
• High levels of bilirubin in the blood (hyperbilirubinaemia) which may cause symptoms such as 
yellowing of your eyes or skin, fever and tiredness  
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
•  Unusual infections (so-called “opportunistic infections”) 
•  Damage to your liver 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Speak to your doctor as soon as possible if you think you have an infection. 
You will also find this information in the patient alert card you have been given by your doctor. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tysabri 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the label and carton. The expiry date refers to 
the last day of that month. 
Unopened vial: 
Store in a refrigerator . 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Diluted solution: 
After dilution, immediate use is recommended. If not used immediately, the diluted solution must be 
stored at 2˚C to 8˚C and infused within 24 hours of dilution. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice particles in the liquid and/or the liquid in the vial is discoloured. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Tysabri contains 
The active substance is natalizumab. Each 15 mL vial of concentrate contains 300 mg natalizumab 
(20 mg per mL). When diluted, the solution for infusion contains approximately 2.6 mg per mL of 
natalizumab. 
The other ingredients are: 
Sodium phosphate, monobasic, monohydrate, 
Sodium phosphate, dibasic, heptahydrate, 
Sodium chloride (see section 2 ‘Tysabri contains sodium’), 
Polysorbate 80 (E 433) 
Water for injections 
What Tysabri looks like and contents of the pack 
Tysabri is a clear, colourless to slightly cloudy liquid.  
Each carton contains one glass vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
DK-3400 Hillerød 
Denmark  
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
For any further information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder.  
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Biogen Belgium N.V./S.A. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 219 12 18 
България 
ТП ЕВОФАРМА 
Teл.: +359 2 962 12 00 
Česká republika 
Biogen (Czech Republic) s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 255 706 200 
Danmark 
Biogen (Denmark) A/S 
Tlf: +45 77 41 57 57 
Deutschland 
Biogen GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0) 89 99 6170 
Eesti 
Biogen Estonia OÜ 
Tel: +372 618 9551 
Ελλάδα 
Genesis Pharma SA  
Τηλ: +30 210 8771500 
España 
Biogen Spain SL 
Tel: +34 91 310 7110 
France 
Biogen France SAS 
Tél: +33 (0)1 41 37 95 95 
Hrvatska 
Biogen Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +358 (0) 1 775 73 22 
Ireland 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +353 (0)1 463 7799 
Lietuva 
Biogen Lithuania UAB 
Tel: +370 5 259 6176 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Biogen Belgium N.V./S.A. 
Tél/Tel: +352 2 219 12 18 
Magyarország 
Biogen Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 (1) 899 9883 
Malta 
Pharma MT limited 
Tel: +356 213 37008/9 
Nederland 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 542 2000 
Norge 
Biogen Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 23 40 01 00  
Österreich 
Biogen Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 484 46 13 
Polska 
Biogen Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 351 51 00 
Portugal 
Biogen Portugal Sociedade Farmacêutica 
Unipessoal, Lda 
Tel: +351 21 318 8450 
România 
Johnson & Johnson Romania S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 21 207 18 00 
Slovenija 
Biogen Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 511 02 90 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Biogen Italia s.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 584 9901 
Κύπρος 
Genesis Pharma (Cyprus) Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22 76 57 15 
Latvija 
Biogen Latvia SIA 
Tel: +371 68 688 158 
This leaflet was last revised in .  
Other sources of information 
Slovenská republika 
Biogen Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 323 340 08 
Suomi/Finland 
Biogen Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 207 401 200 
Sverige 
Biogen Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 8 594 113 60 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 50 1000 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
Inspect the Tysabri vial for particles prior to dilution and administration. If particles are 
observed and/or the liquid in the vial is not colourless, clear to slightly opalescent, the vial must 
not be used. 
Use aseptic technique when preparing the medicine. Remove flip-top from the vial. Insert the 
syringe needle into the vial through the centre of the rubber stopper and remove 15 mL 
concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Add the 15 mL concentrate for solution for infusion to 100 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection. Gently invert the  solution to mix completely. Do not shake. 
Tysabri must not be mixed with other medicinal products or diluents. 
Visually inspect the diluted medicinal product for particles or discolouration prior to 
administration. Do not use if it is discoloured or if foreign particles are seen. 
The diluted medicinal product is to be used as soon as possible and within 24 hours of dilution. 
If the diluted medicinal product is stored at 2 to 8°C (do not freeze), allow the solution to warm 
to room temperature prior to infusion. 
The diluted solution is to be infused intravenously over 1 hour at a rate of approximately 2 mL 
per minute. 
After the infusion is complete, flush the intravenous line with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection. 
9. 
Each vial is for single–use only. 
10. 
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the product name (Tysabri) 
and batch number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
67 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Tysabri 150 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
natalizumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
In addition to this leaflet you will be given a patient alert card. This contains important safety 
information that you need to know before and during treatment with Tysabri . 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet and the patient alert card. You may need to read them again. Keep the leaflet 
and patient alert card with you during treatment and for six months after the last dose of this 
medicine, as side effects may occur even after you have stopped treatment. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor.  
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Tysabri is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you receive Tysabri 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Tysabri is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Tysabri 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Tysabri is and what it is used for 
Tysabri is used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS). It contains the active substance natalizumab. This is 
called a monoclonal antibody.  
MS causes inflammation in the brain that damages the nerve cells. This inflammation happens when 
white blood cells get into the brain and spinal cord. This medicine stops the white blood cells getting 
through to the brain. This reduces nerve damage caused by MS. 
Symptoms of multiple sclerosis 
The symptoms of MS vary from patient to patient, and you may experience some or none of them.  
They may include: walking problems; numbness in the face, arms or legs; problems with vision; 
tiredness; feeling off-balance or light headed; bladder and bowel problems; difficulty in thinking and 
concentrating; depression; acute or chronic pain; sexual problems; stiffness and muscle spasms.  
When the symptoms flare up, it is called a relapse (also known as an exacerbation or an attack). When 
a relapse occurs, you may notice the symptoms suddenly, within a few hours, or slowly progressing 
over several days. Your symptoms will then usually improve gradually (this is called a remission). 
How Tysabri can help 
In trials, this medicine approximately halved the build-up of disability caused by MS, and  decreased 
the number of MS attacks by about two-thirds. While you are treated with this medicine you might not 
notice any improvement, but it may still be working to prevent your MS becoming worse. 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.   What you need to know before you receive Tysabri 
Before you start treatment with this medicine, it is important that you and your doctor have discussed 
the benefits you could expect to receive from this treatment and the risks that are associated with it. 
You must not be given Tysabri 
•  If you are allergic to natalizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
•  If you have been diagnosed with PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). PML is 
an uncommon infection of the brain. 
•  If your immune system has a serious problem. This may be due to disease (such as HIV), or to 
a medicine you are taking, or have taken in the past (see below). 
•  If you are taking medicines that affect your immune system, including certain other 
medicines used to treat MS. These medicines cannot be used with Tysabri. 
•  If you have cancer (unless it is a type of skin cancer called basal cell carcinoma). 
Warnings and precautions 
You need to discuss with your doctor whether Tysabri is the most suitable treatment for you. Do this 
before you start taking this medicine, and when you have been receiving  it for more than two years.  
Possible brain infection (PML) 
Some people receiving this medicine (fewer than 1 in 100) have had an uncommon brain infection 
called PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). PML can lead to severe disability or death.  
•  Before starting treatment, all patients will have blood tests arranged by the doctor for JC virus 
infection. JC virus is a common virus that does not normally make you ill. However, PML is 
linked to an increase of JC virus in the brain. The reason for this increase in some patients 
treated with Tysabri is not clear. Before and during treatment, your doctor will test your blood 
to check if you have antibodies to the JC virus, which are a sign that you have been infected by 
the JC virus. 
•  Your doctor will arrange a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan, which will be repeated 
during treatment to rule out PML. 
•  The symptoms of PML may be similar to an MS relapse (see section 4, Possible side effects). 
You can also get PML up to 6 months after stopping Tysabri treatment.  
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice your MS getting worse or if you notice any 
new symptoms, while you are on Tysabri treatment or for up to 6 months afterwards.  
•  Tell your partner or caregivers about what to look out for (see also section 4, Possible side 
effects). Some symptoms might be difficult to spot by yourself, such as changes in mood or 
behaviour, confusion, speech and communication difficulties. If you get any of these, you may 
need further tests. Keep looking out for symptoms in the 6 months after stopping Tysabri.  
•  Keep the patient alert card you have been given by your doctor. It includes this information. 
Show it to your partner or caregivers. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three things can increase your risk of PML with Tysabri. If you have two or more of these risk 
factors, the risk is increased further:  
•  If you have antibodies to the JC virus in your blood. These are a sign that the virus is in your 
body. You will be tested before and during Tysabri treatment.  
•  If you are treated for a long time with Tysabri, especially if it is more than two years. 
•  If you have taken a medicine called an immunosuppressant, that reduces the activity of your 
immune system.  
Another condition, called JCV GCN (JC virus granule cell neuronopathy), is also caused by JC virus 
and has occurred in some patients receiving this medicine. The symptoms of JCV GCN are similar to 
PML. 
For those with a lower risk of PML, your doctor may repeat the test regularly to check that: 
•  You still do not have antibodies to the JC virus in your blood.  
•  If you have been treated for more than 2 years, you still have a lower level of JC virus 
antibodies in your blood. 
If someone gets PML 
PML can be treated, and Tysabri treatment will be stopped. However, some people get a reaction as 
Tysabri is removed from the body. This reaction (known as IRIS, or immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome) may lead to your condition getting worse, including worsening of brain 
function. 
Look out for other infections 
Some infections other than PML may also be serious and can be due to viruses, bacteria, and other 
causes. 
Tell a doctor or nurse immediately if you think you have an infection (see also section 4, Possible 
side effects). 
Changes in blood platelets 
Natalizumab may reduce platelets in the blood which are responsible for clotting. This may result in a 
condition called thrombocytopenia (see section 4) in which your blood may not clot quickly enough to 
stop bleeding. This can lead to bruising as well as other more serious problems such as excessive 
bleeding. You should talk to your doctor immediately if you have unexplained bruising, red or purple 
spots on the skin (called petechiae), bleeding from skin cuts that does not stop or oozes, prolonged 
bleeding from the gums or nose, blood in urine or stools, or bleeding in the whites of your eyes. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children or adolescents under the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and Tysabri 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.  
•  You must not be given this medicine if you are now being treated with medicines that affect 
your immune system, including certain other medicines to treat your MS.  
•  You might not be able to use this medicine if you have previously had any medicines that affect 
your immune system.  
70 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
•  Do not use this medicine if you are pregnant, unless you have discussed this with your 
doctor. Be sure to tell your doctor immediately if you get pregnant, think you may be pregnant, 
or if you are planning to become pregnant. 
•  Do not breast-feed whilst using Tysabri. Your doctor will help you decide whether you 
should stop breast-feeding, or stop using the medicine. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. The risk to the baby and benefit to the mother will 
be taken into consideration by your doctor. 
Driving and using machines 
Dizziness is a very common side effect. If you are affected, do not drive or use machines. 
Tysabri contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 300 mg dose, so it is essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.   How Tysabri is given 
Tysabri injections will be prescribed to you by a doctor experienced in the treatment of MS. Your 
doctor may switch you directly from another medicine to Tysabri if there are no signs of problems 
caused by your previous treatment. Tysabri injections will be given to you by a healthcare 
professional. 
•  Your doctor will order blood tests for antibodies to the JC virus and other possible problems.  
•  Your doctor will arrange an MRI scan, which will be repeated during treatment. 
•  To switch from some MS medicines, your doctor may advise you to wait for a certain time to 
ensure that most of the previous medicine has left your body. 
•  If your condition allows, your doctor may talk to you about receiving injections outside a clinic 
(e.g. at home). 
•  For adults the recommended dose is 300 mg, given once every 4 weeks. 
•  Each dose is given as two injections under the skin, in your thigh, stomach or back of your arm. 
This takes up to 30 minutes. 
•  Information for medical or healthcare professionals on how to prepare and inject the medicine is 
provided at the end of this leaflet. 
If you stop using Tysabri 
Regular dosing with this medicine is important, especially in the first few months of treatment. It is 
important to continue with your medicine for as long as you and your doctor decide that it is helping 
you. Patients who received one or two doses of Tysabri, and then had a gap in treatment of three 
months or more, were more likely to have an allergic reaction when restarting treatment. 
Checking for allergic reactions 
A few patients have had an allergic reaction to this medicine. Your doctor may check for allergic 
reactions during the injections and for 1 hour afterwards. See also section 4, Possible side effects. 
If you miss your dose of Tysabri 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you miss your usual dose of Tysabri, arrange with your doctor to receive it as soon as you can. You 
can then continue to receive your dose of Tysabri every 4 weeks. 
Will Tysabri always work? 
In a few patients receiving Tysabri, the body’s natural defences may stop the medicine from working 
properly over time, as the body develops antibodies to the medicine. Your doctor can decide whether 
this medicine is not working properly for you from blood tests and will stop the treatment, if 
necessary. 
If you have any further questions on Tysabri, ask your doctor. Always use this medicine exactly as 
described in this leaflet or as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not sure.  
Subcutaneous is abbreviated as SC on the syringe label. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Speak to your doctor or nurse immediately if you notice any of the following. 
Signs of a brain infection 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Changes in personality and behaviour such as confusion, delirium or loss of consciousness, 
Seizures (fits)  
Headache  
Nausea / vomiting  
Stiff neck  
Extreme sensitivity to bright light  
Fever  
Rash (anywhere on the body) 
These symptoms may be caused by an infection of the brain (encephalitis or PML) or its covering 
layer (meningitis). 
Signs of other serious infections 
• An unexplained fever 
• Severe diarrhoea 
• Shortness of breath 
• Prolonged dizziness 
• Headache 
• Weight loss 
• Listlessness 
• Impaired vision 
• Pain or redness of the eye(s) 
Signs of an allergic reaction 
• Itchy rash (hives) 
• Swelling of your face, lips or tongue 
• Difficulty breathing 
• Chest pain or discomfort 
• Increase or decrease in your blood pressure (your doctor or nurse will notice this if they are 
monitoring your blood pressure) 
These are most likely during or shortly after the injection. 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signs of a possible liver problem 
• Yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes 
• Unusual darkening of the urine 
• Abnormal liver function test 
Speak to a doctor or nurse immediately if you get any of the side effects listed above, or if you 
think you have an infection. Show your patient alert card and this package leaflet to any doctor or 
nurse who treats you, not only to your neurologist. 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Urinary tract infection 
Sore throat and runny or blocked up nose 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Feeling sick (nausea) 
Joint pain 
Tiredness 
Common  (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Anaemia (decrease in your red blood cells which can make your skin pale and can make you 
feel breathless or lacking energy) 
Allergy (hypersensitivity) 
Shivering 
Itchy rash (hives) 
Being sick (vomiting) 
Fever 
Difficulty breathing (dyspnoea) 
Reddening of the face or body (flushing) 
Herpes infections 
Discomfort around the place you have been injected.  You could experience pain, bruising, 
redness, itching or swelling 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon  (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• Severe allergy (anaphylactic reaction) 
• Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
• Inflammatory disorder after discontinuation of the medicinal product 
• Facial swelling  
• An increase in the number of white blood cells (eosinophilia) 
• Reduction in blood platelets  
• Easy bruising (purpura) 
Rare  (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
•  Herpes infection in the eye 
• Severe anaemia (decrease in your red blood cells which can make your skin pale and can make 
you feel breathless or lacking energy) 
• Severe swelling under the skin  
• High levels of bilirubin in the blood (hyperbilirubinaemia) which may cause symptoms such as 
yellowing of your eyes or skin, fever and tiredness 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
•  Unusual infections of brain and eyes 
•  Damage to your liver 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Speak to your doctor as soon as possible if you think you have an infection.You will also find this 
information in the patient alert card you have been given by your doctor. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in 
this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tysabri 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the label and carton. The expiry date refers to 
the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
The syringes can be kept in their original packaging for up to 24 hours at room temperature (up to 
25° C).  The syringes must not be returned to the refrigerator.   
Keep the syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice particles in the liquid and/or the liquid in the syringe is 
discoloured. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Tysabri contains 
The active substance is natalizumab.  
Each 1 mL pre-filled syringe contains 150 mg natalizumab.  
The other ingredients are: 
Sodium phosphate, monobasic, monohydrate, 
Sodium phosphate, dibasic, heptahydrate, 
Sodium chloride (see section 2 ‘Tysabri contains sodium’), 
Polysorbate 80 (E 433) 
Water for injections 
What Tysabri looks like and contents of the pack 
Tysabri is a colourless to slightly yellow, slightly opalescent to opalescent liquid. 
Each carton contains two syringes. 
Tysabri is available in packs containing 2 pre-filled syringes. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
DK-3400 Hillerød 
Denmark  
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
For any further information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder.  
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Biogen Belgium N.V./S.A. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 219 12 18 
България 
ТП ЕВОФАРМА 
Teл.: +359 2 962 12 00 
Česká republika 
Biogen (Czech Republic) s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 255 706 200 
Danmark 
Biogen (Denmark) A/S 
Tlf: +45 77 41 57 57 
Deutschland 
Biogen GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0) 89 99 6170 
Eesti 
Biogen Estonia OÜTel: +372 618 9551 
Ελλάδα 
Genesis Pharma SA  
Τηλ: +30 210 8771500 
España 
Biogen Spain SL 
Tel: +34 91 310 7110 
France 
Biogen France SAS 
Tél: +33 (0)1 41 37 95 95 
Hrvatska 
Biogen Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +358 (0) 1 775 73 22 
Ireland 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +353 (0)1 463 7799 
Lietuva 
Biogen Lithuania UAB 
Tel: +370 5 259 6176 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Biogen Belgium N.V./S.A. 
Tél/Tel: +352 2 219 12 18 
Magyarország 
Biogen Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 (1) 899 9883 
Malta 
Pharma MT limited 
Tel: +356 213 37008/9 
Nederland 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 542 2000 
Norge 
Biogen Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 23 40 01 00  
Österreich 
Biogen Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 484 46 13 
Polska 
Biogen Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 351 51 00 
Portugal 
Biogen Portugal Sociedade Farmacêutica 
Unipessoal, Lda 
Tel: +351 21 318 8450 
România 
Johnson & Johnson Romania S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 21 207 18 00 
Slovenija 
Biogen Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 511 02 90 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Biogen Italia s.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 584 9901 
Κύπρος 
Genesis Pharma (Cyprus) Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22 76 57 15 
Latvija 
Biogen Latvia SIA 
Tel: +371 68 688 158 
This leaflet was last revised in .  
Other sources of information 
Slovenská republika 
Biogen Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 323 340 08 
Suomi/Finland 
Biogen Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 207 401 200 
Sverige 
Biogen Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 8 594 113 60 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 50 1000 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Before administering Tysabri subcutaneous injection outside a clinical setting (OCS), e.g. at home, the 
OCS Administration Checklist must be completed by the healthcare professional for each patient, prior 
to each administration, to ensure that the injection can be administered. 
The 300 mg recommended dose should be administered using two 150 mg pre-filled syringes, see 
section 3 below. 
Instructions for administration 
The pre-filled syringe has a needle guard system that will automatically activate when the plunger is 
fully depressed. As you let go of the plunger, the needle guard will cover the exposed needle. 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Remove dose pack from the refrigerator and allow to warm to room temperature (up to 25oC) before 
administering the injections. Recommended warm up time is 30 minutes. 
Date and time of removal of the dose pack from the refrigerator must be recorded on the carton. 
○  
o 
Do not use external heat sources such as hot water to warm the pre-filled syringes. 
Do not touch or recap the needle at any stage. This is to avoid accidental needle stick injury. 
2. Remove both product syringes from the tray. Check that the medicinal product in each pre-filled 
syringe is a colourless to slightly yellow, slightly opalescent solution that is essentially free of visible 
particles. You might see air bubbles in the display windows. This is normal and will not affect the 
dose. 
• 
Check both the pre-filled syringes. Do not use them if: 
they are past the expiry date marked on the syringe label (EXP). 
• 
or 
•  have been stored at room temperature (up to 25oC) for longer than 24 hours. 
• 
the colour and clarity of the liquid is not consistent with the above, or if the liquid 
contains floating particles. 
there are any signs of damage (cracks, chips, etc.). 
• 
• 
If you notice any of the above, contact your pharmacy immediately. 
3. A full dose is equivalent to two syringes administered consecutively and within 30 minutes of each 
other. 
Use two 150 mg syringes.  
Full dose = 300 mg.  
4. Use aseptic technique (clean and germ free) and a flat work surface during the injection procedure. 
5. Choose the first subcutaneous injection site in the thigh, abdomen, or the back of the upper arm. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Do not inject into an area of the body where the skin is irritated, reddened, bruised, infected, or 
scarred in any way. 
6. Give the first injection.  
•  Choose an injection site and wipe the skin with an alcohol wipe.  
•  Let the injection site dry on its own before injecting. 
•  Do not touch or blow on this area again before giving the injection.  
•  Remove the needle shield. 
•  Gently pinch the skin around the cleaned injection site using thumb and forefinger to 
create a slight bulge. 
•  Hold the pre-filled syringe at a 45°-90° angle to the injection site. Quickly insert the 
needle straight into the skin fold until the needle is fully under the skin. 
7. Slowly push the plunger in one smooth motion until the syringe is completely empty. Do not pull 
back on the plunger. 
8. Before removing the syringe, check that the syringe is empty. If you see any blood, press a cotton 
ball or gauze on the site. Do not rub the skin after the injection.When removing the syringe from the 
injection site, let go of the plunger WHILE pulling the needle straight out. As you let go of the 
plunger, the needle guard will cover the exposed needle. 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Administer injections one after the other without significant delay. In the event that the second 
injection cannot be administered immediately following the first injection, the second injection should 
be administered no later than 30 minutes after the first injection. The second injection should be at 
least 3 cm away from the first injection location. 
Patients should be observed during the subcutaneous injections and for 1 hour after for signs and 
symptoms of injection reactions including hypersensitivity. After the first 6 Tysabri doses, 
regardless of route of administration, patients should be observed after subcutaneous injection 
according to clinical judgement. 
Promptly discontinue injection upon the first observation of any signs or symptoms consistent with an 
allergic reaction [see SmPC section 4.4]. 
1st injection 
2nd injection 
At least 
3 cm  
10. Dispose of the used syringe in accordance with local requirements. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
