1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction 
Natalizumab is a recombinant, humanized form of a murine monoclonal antibody that binds to the α4 
subunit of α4β1 (also known as very late antigen 4 [VLA-4] or CD49d-CD29) and α4β7 integrin. The 
α4-integrins are expressed on all leukocytes, with the exception neutrophils, as well as haematopoietic 
progenitor cells, and mediate several homing and adhesive functions. This is accomplished through the 
binding  of  the  α4-integrins  to  their  cognate  receptors  vascular  cell  adhesion  molecule-1  (VCAM-1) 
and  mucosal  addressing  cell  adhesion  molecule-1  (MadCAM-1)  expressed  on  endothelium. 
MadCAM-1  binding  is  specific  to  the  α4β7-integrin  expressed  primarily  on  T  lymphocytes  and 
monocytes in the intestine. Additional α4-integren ligands include osteopontin and fibronectin (CS-1) 
expressed within the extracellular matrix. 
Natalizumab effectively blocks the interaction of α4-integrins with their cognate receptors. Disruption 
of these molecular interactions prevents migration of mononuclear leukocytes across the endothelium 
and into inflamed tissue. Natalizumab may also suppress ongoing inflammatory reactions in diseased 
tissues  by  inhibiting  α4-expressing  leukocytes  from  binding  with  its  ligands within  the  extracellular 
matrix.  
Natalizumab  is  a  full-length  antibody  of  the  IgG4  subclass.  It  consists  of  two  heavy  and  two  light 
chains connected by four inter-chain disulfide bonds. Like the IgG4 class of antibodies, natalizumab 
also demonstrates reduced binding to Fcγ receptors and lack of ability to fix complement in vitro. 
Natalizumab  is  being  co-developed  by  Biogen  Idec  Inc.  and  Elan  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.  for  the 
treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS). In MS, lesions are believed to occur when activated T 
lymphocytes cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Leukocyte migration across the BBB involves the 
interaction  between  α4β1  and  VCAM-1.  Once  in  the  tissues,  α4β1  further  interacts  with  CS-1  and 
osteopontin  within  the  extracellular  matrix.  The  result  is  further  amplification  of  the  inflammatory 
cascade and ultimately demyelination caused by leukocyte injury to the myelin sheath. This sequence 
of events makes MS a logical choice for treatment with natalizumab. 
The originally claimed indication was” for treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis to reduce 
the frequency of clinical exacerbations”. Natalizumab may be used as monotherapy in patients with 
relapsing multiple sclerosis. Natalizumab may also be used in combination with intramuscular 
interferon beta-1a once weekly for patients who continue to experience clinical exacerbations while 
receiving intramuscular interferon beta-1a.  
The recommended dose of natalizumab is 300 mg IV every 4 weeks  
After review of the dossier, the indication has been restricted on safety grounds as follows: 
“Tysabri is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis for the following patient groups: 
• 
or 
• 
Patients with high disease activity despite treatment with a beta-interferon (see 5.1); 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (see 5.1). 
It is clarified (section 5.1 of SPC) that due to safety concerns treatment is restricted to the following 
patient groups: 
©EMEA 2006 
1/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
or 
• 
Patients who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course of a beta-interferon. Patients 
should  have  had  at  least  1  relapse  in  the  previous  year  while  on  therapy,  and  have  at  least  9 
T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial MRI or at least 1 Gadolinium-enhancing lesion. 
Patients  with  rapidly  evolving  severe  relapsing  remitting  multiple  sclerosis,  defined  by  2  or 
more disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain 
MRI or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
1.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Natalizumab  is  a  purified,  recombinant,  humanized  monoclonal  antibody  against  the  integrin  α4-
subunit (IgG4/κ).  Natalizumab is produced in non-immunoglobulin secreting (NS/0) murine myeloma 
cells. The molecular weight of glycosylated natalizumab is 149 kilodaltons. It consists of two heavy 
and two light chains connected by four inter-chain disulfide bonds. The α4-integrins are expressed on 
all leukocytes, with the exception of neutrophils. By binding to the α4-subunit of α4β1 (also known as 
very late antigen 4 [VLA-4] or CD49d-CD29) and α4β7 integrins, natalizumab blocks the interaction 
of  α4β1  or  α4β7  on  leukocytes  to  their  counter  receptors  (VCAM  and  MadCAM)  and  ligand 
(fibronectin), this acting as a selective adhesion molecule (SAM) inhibitor. 
The drug product is a sterile, clear to slightly opalescent liquid concentrate for intravenous infusion, 
presented in type I borosilicate glass vials with bromobutyl stoppers and aluminium  seals for which 
integrity  has  been  demonstrated.  Natalizumab  concentrate  is  substantially  free  of  particulate  matter.  
Each  15  ml  vial  contains  300  mg  natalizumab,  sodium  phosphate,  monobasic,  sodium  phosphate, 
dibasic, sodium  chloride, polysorbate 80 and Water for Injection (USP/Ph.Eur).  For administration, 
the  natalizumab  concentrate  is  diluted  in  100  ml  saline.  The  diluted  solution  is  to  be  infused 
intravenously over 1 hour at a rate of approximately 2 ml/minute. 
Active Substance  
Natalizumab  is  a  full-length  antibody  of  the  IgG4  subclass.  It  consists  of  two  heavy  and  two  light 
chains  connected  by  four  inter-chain  disulfide  bonds.    Antibodies  of  the  IgG4  subclass  are 
characterized by a shorter hinge region in comparison to antibodies of the IgG1 subclass, leading to a 
reduced  flexibility  of  the  hinge  region.  Like  the  IgG4  class  of  antibodies,  natalizumab  also 
demonstrates reduced binding to Fcγ receptors and lack of ability to fix complement in vitro.    
The  molecular  mass  of  the  intact  deglycosylated  natalizumab  molecule,  as  measured  by  mass 
spectrometry,  is  146 kDa.    Each  heavy  chain  has  one  potential  N-linked  glycosylation  site.  The 
structural  characteristics  of  natalizumab  are  common  among  IgG  antibodies,  and  a  majority  of 
antibody products share similar attributes.   
Manufacture 
Manufacturers 
Natalizumab is manufactured in the “Large Scale Manufacturing (LSM) plant” owned and operated by 
Biogen  Idec  Inc.  (at  RTP,  NC,  USA)  and  routinely  controlled  at  Biogen  Idec’s  Quality  Control 
laboratories (at RTP, NC, and at Cambridge, MA, USA, and San Diego, CA, USA). 
Genetic development 
The  immunisation  procedure  and  the  cell  line  development  are  extensively  described.  The  RAMOS 
cell-line used for the immunisation procedure is a well-characterized non-EBV releasing cell-line. The 
fusion  partner  SP2/0  –Ag14  is  a  widely  used  and  well-characterised  cell  line  for  the  generation  of 
hybridomas for monoclonal antibodies. The humanisation by CDR grafting and the generation of the 
double  gene  expression  vector  is  described  comprehensively.  The  process  of  transfection  and 
generation of the production cell line ATH-1 follows a reasonable strategy. The ability of the resulting 
©EMEA 2006 
2/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
antibody (AN100226m) and the humanised antibody (AN100226) to bind to α4 integrin and to inhibit 
the α4 integrin dependent cell adhesion was demonstrated.  
Cell Banking 
The  development  of  the  cell  line,  the  creation  of  the  cell  bank  and  its  testing  follow  a  scientifically 
sound  scheme  and  are  sufficiently  described.  The  cell  banking  system  is  adequate  for  reliable 
manufacturing of the monoclonal antibody. Criteria for the establishment of new Working Cell Banks 
were  provided.  Testing  of  the  cell  bank  was  adequate.  Generally  the  requirements  of  the  relevant 
guidelines  (Production  and  quality  control  of  monoclonal  antibodies,  ICH  Q5D,  ICH  Q5B  and  Ph. 
Eur. monograph 784 products of recombinant DNA technology) are met. 
Starting materials 
Serum is not used in the composition of the cell culture medium, including Working Cell Bank (WCB) 
cultivation  and  cell  culture  process  media.  Animal-derived  raw  materials  are  not  used  in  the 
commercial manufacturing process of natalizumab and none of the components used are derived from 
animal sources. Bovine serum albumin (BSA) and human transferrin are used in the preparation of the 
Master Cell Bank (MCB) and WCBs. In addition, the freezing medium used for both MCB and WCBs 
contains  foetal  bovine  serum  and  DMSO.  Materials  used  in  the  manufacture  process  are  adequately 
controlled.  
Cell culture and purification 
Natalizumab is expressed in a recombinant NS/0 (murine myeloma) cell line.  NS/0 cells derived from 
a  single  vial  of  the  Working  Cell  Bank  are  grown  in  increasing  volumes  of  shaker  flasks  and 
bioreactors, to obtain an inoculum for the production bioreactor (volume of 15,000 litre). The contents 
of the production bioreactor are harvested and the conditioned medium is obtained using membrane 
filtration.  
Natalizumab  is  purified  using  a  sequence  of  affinity  chromatography  (recombinant  Protein  A 
Sepharose resin), anion-exchange chromatography and hydrophobic interaction chromatography. The 
final  eluate  is  then  concentrated  and  buffer  is  exchanged  with  the  final  formulation  buffer  using  an 
Ultrafiltration/Diafiltration system.  
In addition to the viral clearance achieved in the chromatography steps, further clearance is achieved 
by low pH treatment and 15 nm nanofiltration. The manufacturing process is designed to ensure a high 
degree of purity of the active substance, as well as freedom from adventitious agents.    
This  sequence  of  affinity  chromatography,  anion-exchange  chromatography,  and  hydrophobic 
interaction chromatography, together with treatment at low pH and nanofiltration, is commonly used 
for other antibody products. 
The manufacturing process and in-process controls have been sufficiently described. Establishment of 
controls for critical steps and intermediates are described in detail. Validation studies were presented, 
demonstrating  clearance  of  process  related  impurities  and  consistency  of  the  drug  substance 
manufacturing  process.  Different  processes  have  been  used  during  the  development  of  the 
manufacturing process. Data comparing commercial process with processes for clinical trial material 
were presented and demonstrate that biochemical and physicochemical characteristics are comparable, 
except  for  differences  detectable  in  certain  product  attributes.  It  could  be  demonstrated  sufficiently 
that  these  differences  did  not  affect  biological  activity,  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic 
properties, or immunogenicity. 
Characterisation 
Natalizumab  has  been  characterised  extensively  using  a  battery  of  modern  analytical  state-of-the-art 
techniques. Primary structure could be determined using Edman degradation and different methods of 
peptide  mapping.  Secondary  and  tertiary  structure  were  analysed  by  circular  dichroism  and 
fluorescence spectroscopy. Additionally, amino-acid composition, molecular mass and disulfide bonds 
have  been  investigated.  Glycan  structure  has  been  analyzed  and  different  glycoforms  have  been 
quantified to determine the extent of post-translational modification. Other product-related impurities 
©EMEA 2006 
3/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have been identified and quantified, using reduced GelChip Capillary Electrophoresis (GelChip CE), 
size  exclusion  chromatography  (SEC),  ion  exchange  chromatography  (IEC),  and  reverse  phase  high 
performance  liquid  chromatography  (RP-HPLC).  The  amount  of  half-antibody  was  successfully 
quantified with non-reduced GelChip Capillary Electrophoresis. 
Several biological characterization assays were developed to evaluate both the binding of the regions 
of  natalizumab  that  contact  VLA4  (functional  end)  as  well  as  the  immunoglobulin  Fc  region.  The 
format of the assays that characterize the functional end of the molecule were specifically configured 
to reflect one of the proposed modes of action of natalizumab in vivo, i.e. binding to the VLA4 and 
blocking the binding of ligands VCAM and MadCAM to VLA4 and to the α4β7 integrin. Assays to 
characterise the Fc region of natalizumab focused on demonstrating the ability of natalizumab to bind 
Fcγ receptors I/II. In addition, natalizumab was also characterized in qualitative assays for its ability to 
bind to Fcγ receptor III and for its ability to mediate effector functions through the Fc region, namely, 
ADCC and CDC. These methods allowed a comprehensive characterisation of the antibody in terms of 
binding and functional properties of the molecule. The applicant followed the scientific advice given 
by  the  CPMP  in  2002  to add  an  assay  to  characterise  the  binding  of  natalizumab  to  Fc  receptors  of 
cells involved in the clinical setting and to characterise the binding to MadCAM.  
Process-related impurities have been analyzed by clearance validation and quantification in the active 
substance.  As  concentrations  of  DNA,  recombinant  Protein  A  and  impurities  from  the  cell  culture 
process  are  below  the  limit  of  quantification,  it  is  acceptable  not  to  perform  routine  testing.  As 
determination  of  host  cell  protein  (NS/0)  in  more  than  30  additional  commercial  scale  batches 
demonstrated a consistent low level of host cell protein, it was justified, not to include this parameter 
in further batch testing of active substance. 
Specifications 
The  analytical  procedures  and  their  validation  in  general  are  appropriate  for  the  assessment  of  the 
active  substance.  The  set  of  specification  and  limits  were  adequately  justified  on  the  basis  of  data 
obtained  from  18  batches  batch  analysis  and  are  typical  for  a  monoclonal  antibody.  Specifications 
include:  tests  for  identity,  quantity,  biological  activity/potency,  test  for  the  consistency  of  the 
heterogeneity of the active substance, purity and impurities as well as bioburden and endotoxin. The 
biological potency of natalizumab is measured in vitro by its ability to bind α4-integrins and block its 
interaction with its co-receptor. An in-house reference standard (RS007-001) has been established for 
the use in this assay. Any future reference preparations will be qualified and compared to the in-use 
reference standard according to the same protocol used for the current standard and this protocol has 
been adequately described. The assay is considered acceptable and adequately validated.  
Consistency  in  glycosylation  is  a  common  issue  for  monoclonal  antibodies.  Measure  of  the 
carbohydrate moiety is seen as a sensitive marker for the consistency of the production process and as 
an important part of the molecule. As a consequence, batches of active substance will be released on 
the  basis  of  an  interim  specification  for  galactosylation  and  sialylation  established  based  on 
characterisation data from 30 batches and subject to successful validation of the method. After testing 
of  20  commercial  batches  of  active  substance  using  the  validated  method,  the  commercial 
specification will be established.  
Stability 
The container closure system for storage of the active substance is sufficiently described and qualified. 
Samples  for  stability  studies  are  appropriately  held  in  polypropylene  containers  that  are  designed  to 
mimic the actual storage vessels for drug substance and stability studies were performed in accordance 
with ICH requirements.  
Real-time stability data were presented for four commercial process batches of active substance stored 
for 24 months at 5±3°C. Data from storage at 25°C were also presented.  All batches were stable and 
specifications  remained  within  the  limits  defined  for  end-of-shelf-life  at  the  recommended  storage 
condition  at  5°C.  No  meaningful  batch-to-batch  differences  in  the  rate  of  change  of  the  lower  pI 
isoforms,  aggregates  and  purity  were  observed.  Nevertheless,  although  all  batches  remained  within 
©EMEA 2006 
4/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
specification  at  5°C,  the  lower  pI  isoforms,  aggregates  and  purity  were  observed  to  change  during 
accelerated storage at 25°C.  
The data presented justifies the requested 24-month shelf life at 2-8°C for drug substance. 
Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The product is an aseptically processed liquid formulation filled in 15 ml borosilicate glass vials. Each 
vial contains a single 300 mg natalizumab dose, and is therefore intended for single-use. The 
quantitative composition is identical with the composition of the active substance. 
During product development, five formulations of natalizumab have been used in clinical trials. The 
formulation used in most of the Phase II and all of the Phase III trials is identical to the formulation 
proposed for future commercialisation.   
Manufacture 
No additional excipients are needed for drug product manufacture as compared to the formulated drug 
substance.  As  no  further  formulation  steps  are  necessary,  manufacturing  of  drug  product  mainly 
consists of pooling, sterile filtration and aseptic filling of drug substance, followed by stoppering and 
sealing,  labelling  and  packaging.  Critical  test  and  controls  have  been  described  and  validation  of 
process  consistency  has  been  demonstrated  adequately  with  four  full-scale  batches,  using  the 
commercial  process.  Additionally  container/closure  integrity  and  shipping  between  sites  in  the  USA 
has been validated sufficiently.  
During  evaluation,  the  lack  of  various  limits  for  in-process  controls  and  drug  substance  testing  has 
been  identified.  Based  on  additional  experience,  which  has  been  accumulated  for  most  in-process 
parameters, a number of new action limits have been set. These action levels will be re-evaluated as 
needed and as additional manufacturing experience is obtained. 
Product specification 
In  most  cases,  the  tests  and  specifications  for  drug  product  are  identical  to  those  applied  to  drug 
substance.  Tests  being  specific  for  the  drug  product  are  as  follows:  inspection  of  product  in  the 
intermediate  packaging,  test  for  extractable  volume,  lower  pI  isoforms  and  test  for  particulates. 
Sterility  is  controlled  at  the  level  of  the  drug  product  since  no  sterility  claim  is  made  for  the  drug 
substance (only bioburden is controlled at the level of the drug substance). Release test data for all lots 
used in non-clinical and clinical studies, including six batches manufactured at commercial scale, were 
presented. The same reference material established for the drug substance is used for control for the 
drug  product,  which  is  acceptable  as  the  compositions  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  is 
identical.  The  specifications  have  been  appropriately  justified  and  are  acceptable.  All  release  tests, 
including sterility, will be performed on importation into the EU at Elan Pharma (Athlone, Ireland).  
Stability 
The  container  closure  system,  consisting  of  type  I  borosilicate  glass  vials,  bromobutyl  stoppers  and 
aluminium seals, has been appropriately described and its integrity has been demonstrated. 
Real-time stability data were presented for 24 -month at 2-8°C for 5 commercial full-scale batches of 
natalizumab  drug  product.  Stability  was  also  studied  under  accelerated  conditions  at  25°C.  Results 
were very similar to the results obtained for drug substance stability testing and no significant changes 
that  could  affect  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  product  were  detected.  Photo  stability  and  in-use 
stability has been addressed sufficiently.  
The data presented justifies the requested 24-month expiration date for drug product. The stability of 
these batches continues to be monitored as described by the study protocol. 
Adventitious agents 
©EMEA 2006 
5/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TSE compliance 
The drug substance is produced in a serum-free culture medium. No animal-derived material is added 
during fermentation of natalizumab. The MCB and WCBs, which have been established, are free from 
TSE-risk substances and TSE Certificates of Suitability have been provided for Bovine serum albumin 
and  foetal  bovine  serum.  Compliance  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  Minimising  the  Risk  of 
Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agents  via  Human  and  Veterinary  Medicinal 
Products (EMEA/410/01 Rev. 2) has been demonstrated. 
Virus safety 
The fermentation process for production of natalizumab occurs in a serum-free medium. No animal-
derived  material  is  added  during  fermentation.  This  minimises  a  possible  contamination  with 
adventitious viruses. The cells used for production of natalizumab have been extensively screened for 
viruses.  These  tests  did  not  show  the  presence  of  any  viral  contaminant  in  the  MCB,  with  the 
exception of intracellular A-type and C-type retroviral particles which are well known to be present in 
murine  myeloma  cells  (NS/O).  This  is  acceptable  since  there  is  sufficient  capacity  within  the 
manufacturing process of natalizumab for reduction of this type of viral particle and this is not a cause 
for concern. 
The purification process of natalizumab includes several steps for inactivation/removal of enveloped 
viruses. The effectiveness of these steps has been sufficiently demonstrated. In addition, the following 
steps  contribute  to  virus  safety:  purification  on  a  Protein  A  column  and  hydrophobic  interaction 
chromatography.  
The  removal  capacity  of  small  non-enveloped  viruses  (MVM)  is  mainly  based  on  anion  exchange 
chromatography and filtration. Removal by these chromatography steps is virus specific and has only 
some  effectiveness  for  small  non-enveloped  viruses.  Nevertheless,  this  is  acceptable  since  virus 
screening for viruses including MMV is routinely performed at the end of the fermentation runs.  
During  the  manufacture  of  natalizumab  drug  substance,  column  chromatography  resins  are  used 
during  purification.  Viral  clearance  studies  have  been  performed  with  unused  and  re-cycled 
chromatographic resins to determine the effect of continued resin re-use and to define an acceptable 
column lifetime.  
In summary, the virus safety of the product has been sufficiently demonstrated. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Consistency in glycosylation is a common issue for monoclonal antibodies. In the particular case of 
natalizumab, there is only one glycosylation site, which has been thoroughly characterised and which 
is  situated  outside  the  binding  site  of  the  monoclonal  antibody.  The  dossier  has  demonstrated 
consistent production and a significant impact of variability in glycosylation on bioactivity is unlikely. 
The  applicant  proposed  not  to  include  analysis  of  the  distribution  of  carbohydrate  variants  in  the 
release tests because no impact was observed on immunogenicity or pharmacokinetics in the human 
bioequivalence studies conducted using natalizumab with different carbohydrate profiles. 
However, the presented bioequivalence data were not entirely convincing as the studies were designed 
for  a  different  purpose.  Measure  of  the  carbohydrate  moiety  is  seen  as  a  sensitive  marker  for  the 
consistency  of  the  production  process  and  as  an  important  part  of  the  molecule,  which  should  be 
analysed from batch to batch. As a consequence, batches of active substance will be released on the 
basis  of  an 
interim  specification  for  galactosylation  and  sialylation  established  based  on 
characterisation data from 30 batches and subject to successful validation of the method. After testing 
of  20  commercial  batches  of  active  substance  using  the  validated  method,  the  commercial 
specification will be established.  
During  evaluation,  experimental  testing  of  the  drug  product  has  been  performed  by  an  Official 
Medicines Control Laboratory (Paul-Ehrlich-Institut). Most of the methods to control the drug product 
have  been  performed,  including  general  tests,  tests  for  identity,  protein  concentration,  biological 
activity,  purity  and  impurities.  Biological  activity  has  been  determined  with  the  manufacturer’s 
method (VCAM lysate Assay). The other tests are performed based on in-house methods of the Paul-
Ehrlich-Institut. Three commercial scale batches have been analysed, using standard materials of the 
manufacturer. The overall conclusion was, that all tested samples complied with the specifications. On 
the basis of the results that were obtained, consistency of lots was considered to be acceptable. 
©EMEA 2006 
6/32 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished 
product has been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate 
satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn 
lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the 
clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the Risk-benefit balance of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and 
committed to resolve these after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
1.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The non-clinical evaluation programme addresses in various degrees issues around the indications MS 
and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), specifically, Crohn’s disease (CD). Clinical dosing in these 
indications has been intravenous (IV) every 4 weeks at doses up to 6 mg/kg or at a fixed dose of 300 
mg. The fixed dose of 300 mg is the intended dose for marketing.  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Primary pharmacodynamics were examined in 9 studies, showing the effects of natalizumab in a 
guinea pig model of EAE (animal model of multiple sclerosis), the cross reactivity of natalizumab in a 
variety of animal species, the specificity of natalizumab against α4 Integrin and comparable binding of 
natalizumab and its murine parental antibody (AN100226m) to human lymphocytes of healthy 
individuals and patients with MS. 
The studies in the guinea pig EAE model on the efficacy of natalizumab were performed at 3 mg/kg 
dose (MAD) administered s.c. on day 7 and 14 days after EAE induction. Natalizumab induced 
beneficial effects on active EAE, as a model of MS. 
The main natalizumab effect (at serum levels above approximately 1-5 µg/ml) in all examined species 
is the induction of a reversible increase of WBC derived primarily by elevation in lymphocytes counts 
due to the block of α4 integrin. This increase is in the range of 1.1 to 2.8 fold of controls, consistent 
with human data. The normalization in WBC count is reached when serum natalizumab levels fall 
below of 1-5 µg/ml value. 
Species specificity of AN100226m was determined by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) 
analysis. The following species are reacting with the antibody: Rhesus and cynomolgus monkey, pig, 
ferret, guinea pig, and dog. Lymphocytes from rat, gerbil, hamster, rabbit, or marmoset monkey are 
not reactive.  
The affinity of AN100226m and AN100226 (the humanized form of the antibody) for guinea pig 
lymphocytes was very similar to that for human lymphocytes (Kd = 0.3 nM). 
The specificity of the binding of natalizumab including the lack of cross reactivity with non-α4 
integrin chains was determined by the binding to α4 and non-α4 integrins of transfected cell lines.  
The binding characteristics of AN100226m in terms of its ability to inhibit α4-integrin mediated 
receptor binding with MadCAM-1, osteopontin, and fibronectin was demonstrated. 
The α 4 integrin expression on lymphocytes isolated from healthy volunteers was compared to that of 
lymphocytes isolated from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) by using an indirect method 
©EMEA 2006 
7/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
employing FACS analysis to evaluate the relative expression of α 4 integrin on lymphocytes from the 
healthy volunteers and patients with MS. The expression was comparable between the two groups. 
The studies in the guinea pig EAE model on the efficacy of natalizumab were performed. At 3 mg/kg 
dose (MAD) administered s.c. on day 7 and 14 days after EAE induction natalizumab induced 
beneficial effects on active EAE, as a model of MS.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary pharmacodynamics were evaluated in several studies, where the potential effects on the 
lymphoproliferation of whole blood lymphocytes and the ability to produce cytokines in response to 
phytohemagglutinin (PHA) or anti-CD3 antibody stimulation, the profile of cytokines produced upon 
stimulation, natural killer (NK) cell activity, and T cell cytolytic function were assessed. Under the in 
vitro exposure conditions utilized in this study, natalizumab did not appear to significantly alter 
immune regulatory and effector cell functions in normal human lymphocytes or monocytes in the 
above described parameters. 
Minor effects on the immune cell function were observed in a second study to evaluate the subacute 
toxicity of natalizumab after intravenous infusion in cynomologus monkeys (PHA stimulated 
proliferation of PBMC´s and spleen cells). 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The potential effects of IV infusion of natalizumab on cardiac and respiratory parameters were studied 
in a standard safety pharmacology study on cardiovascular parameters in beagle dogs (3 doses: 0.3; 
3mg and 30mg/kg). Decreases in systemic and left ventricular pressures with associated decreases in 
ventricular contractile indices were seen in one dog treated with 3 mg/kg and two dogs treated with 30 
mg/kg natalizumab. The effects were transient and returned to baseline by the end of the infusion or 
shortly thereafter. Further evaluations were performed during chronic applications of natalizumab to 
cynomolgus monkeys, where also cardiovascular parameters were determined. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  of  natalizumab  were  determined  in  combination  with  interferon 
1β  (Avonex)  in  rhesus  monkeys  after  intravenous  infusion.    No  statistically  significant  differences 
were found between animals treated with natalizumab alone or in combination with Avonex. 
Pharmacokinetics 
•  Methods of analysis 
Presence of natalizumab and antibodies to natalizumab was measured using ELISA assays. The limit 
of quantisation (LOQ) of the fluorometric assay was 5.0 µg/mL and the colorimetric assay was 
0.5 µg/mL. It is not clear whether the assay as it is performed is appropriate to analyze anti-
natalizumab antibodies. The applicant commits to further investigate other methods to facilitate more 
sensitive anti-drug antibody detection but with reduced sensitivity to interference by the presence of 
free drug. 
For one non-clinical study, sera samples that showed the presence of anti-natalizumab antibodies were 
also tested in a second ELISA assay (anti-idiotypic) to further characterize the antibody response. The 
limit of quantisation (LOQ) of this assay was 1.0 µg/mL. 
•  Main pharmacokinetic parameters  
Natalizumab shows a pharmacokinetic (PK) typical profile of monoclonal antibodies, with dose-
dependent but not dose-proportional increases in Cmax and AUC values and increases in elimination 
©EMEA 2006 
8/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
half-lives with increasing dose that were accompanied by decreasing clearance rates. This profile is 
probably the result of saturation of the major antibody clearance pathway (Fc-mediated phagocytosis). 
No gender-related differences in disposition were observed across species, nor did pregnancy appear 
to significantly alter disposition in guinea pigs or cynomolgus monkeys. 
PK analysis of a series of four studies were intended to enable the design and verification of a repeat-
dose intraperitoneal (IP) dosing regimen in mice to be further used for human tumour xenograft 
cancerogenicity studies in athymic (nude) mice and severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice. 
Mice data are considered of limited relevance since natalizumab is not binding to its α 4 integrins. The 
mean t ½ for the iv route (10mg) was 77 hr, and 97 hr for the ip route in mice. 
The serum pharmacokinetics of AN100226 were characterized in male and female guinea pigs after 
single intracardiac dose or a multi-dosing study mimicking the dosing conditions used for the 
evaluation of reproductive toxicity in this species. 
Several studies were performed to evaluate the PK profile of natalizumab in the cynomolgus monkey. 
The cynomolgus monkey represents a relevant non-human species to develop PK data that could be 
used for modelling of human PK parameters. A strong induction of antibodies to natalizumab after 11- 
14 day in most of the cynomolgus monkeys (detection limit 5µg/ml) was detected. Cynomolgus 
monkeys are not recognized as an adequate model to predict human immunogenicity due to species 
differences in the response of cynomolgus monkeys to a humanised protein from that of a human 
response to a humanised protein. The immunogenicity of natalizumab in cynomolgus monkeys is not 
dissimilar with what has been observed with some other humanized monoclonal antibodies in this 
species 
PK profiles were determined after single and repeated administration and to compare different 
formulations or manufacturing sites/scales of natalizumab. 
The main pharmacokinetic parameters after a single intravenous dose of natalizumab produced at the 
two different manufacturing sites in cynomolgus monkeys were comparable. The mean t1/2 of the 
different studies was in the range of approx 60- 90h.  Almost all monkeys in the PK as well as in the 
toxicology studies developed high anti-natalizumab titres (up to 1800 µg/ml) within 2-3 weeks after 
the administration.  
The relative short t1/2 and the high immunogenicity of the humanised mAb natalizumab are 
appropriately addressed within the SPC. 
•  Distribution 
Distribution studies were included within the repeated dose toxicity studies. 
•  Metabolism and Excretion 
No studies on the metabolism and the excretion were performed according to the proteinous nature of 
natalizumab. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
The two studies where a single dose was applied suffered from severe technical problems. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity  
In several repeated dose toxicity studies in cynomolgus monkeys the dosing of 3, 10, or 30 mg/kg of 
natalizumab was performed on alternate days through day 28 by IV injection. 
©EMEA 2006 
9/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  four-week  combination  toxicity  study  of  natalizumab  with  Avonex  followed  by  an  eight-week 
recovery in rhesus monkey; 
A 6-month weekly intravenous infusion toxicity study with natalizumab in cynomologus monkey with 
a 6-week recovery period; 
A six-month toxicity study with natalizumab as weekly intravenous infusion in juvenile cynomologus 
monkeys with a 17-week recovery period 
Slides of brain and spinal cord sections from three non-human primate studies (Biogen Study P00002-
01-01; Elan Study 309-011-00; Elan Study 723-013-98) were forwarded to Charles River Laboratories 
Pathology Associates for review. There was no evidence of the simian variant of progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy or any other demyelinating disease in any of the test animals from 
any of the studies.  Additional analyses of completed primate toxicity studies with regard to pathology, 
and potential immunosuppression was performed. In two studies (723-013-98 and 309-011-00), one 
animal each had minimal to mild microscopic lesions in the brain characterized by perivascular 
mononuclear infiltrates and/or gliosis. In reviewing, these lesions were judged to be to be unrelated to 
the test article although an infectious etiology was not being ruled out.  
Chronic  toxicity  studies  of  repeated  doses  of  natalizumab  over  a  26-week  period,  followed  by  a  17 
week dose-free period in cynomolgus monkeys and a 4 week study of repeated doses of natalizumab 
with  and  without  Avonex  were  performed.  Common  and  reproducible  effects  of  natalizumab  in 
cynomolgus monkeys were:  
•  dose related, significantly increased counts of WBC even at the end of recovery periods 
• 
• 
•  very strong and fast induction of anti-natalizumab antibodies in almost all treated cynomolgus 
elevated reticulocyte counts 
severe increases in spleen weights 
• 
monkeys (especially at the doses intended for the treatment of humans) 
infusion  related  reactions  including  complement activation  and  shock-like  reactions  in  some 
cynomolgus monkeys due to high anti-natalizumab antibodies levels 
•  Genotoxicity 
Natalizumab was tested in two genotoxicity studies utilising two standard assays for the testing of the 
mutagenic potential of the mAb. There were no indications for a mutagenic potential as expected for a 
protein-like  monoclonal  antibody  nor  for  potential  contaminants  or  product  excipients  in  the  drug 
product. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Standard short or long term carcinogenicity studies were not performed due to the proteinous nature of 
the test article. 
Two in vitro and three in vivo studies were performed to study the effects the natalizumab on human α 
4 expressing tumour cell lines in vitro and in vivo (as transplants into SCID and nude mice). 
No effects on in vitro tumour cell proliferation, either inhibition or enhancement, were seen following 
treatment with natalizumab over a 5 day period.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Several studies are submitted in order to evaluate the role of alpha 4 integrins on reproductive and 
developmental processes since many functions of α 4 during embryo development are described: in a 
α 4 knockout mouse, failures of placental and cardiac development even results in early gestation 
embryo lethality. Two cross-reactive species, the cynomolgus monkey and guinea pigs were used to 
©EMEA 2006 
10/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evaluate the reproductive and developmental toxicity of natalizumab. Standard but pharmacologically 
irrelevant, rodent species were not evaluated. 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
Studies addressing fertility and early embryonic development were performed in guinea pigs.    
The suitability of the guinea pig as a reproductive model was shown including a negative control 
(mifepristone), which disrupted the pregnancies from approx. 75% (natalizumab group) to 5% 
(mifepristone group). Natalizumab sera levels in the females were 813.8+ 679.7 µg/ml. Transfer of 
natalizumab to the foetus was demonstrated by measuring 4.9µg/ml natalizumab in the foetuses sera. 
Testis and epididymis were evaluated histological. Sperm analysis (motility and morphology) as well 
as the littering numbers was evaluated. No effects on male fertility, sperm function or reproductive 
organ histopathology were observed.  
In one study, the males had to be replaced since several of the male guinea pigs, which had not been 
treated but had been co-housed with natalizumab-treated females as part of a female fertility study, 
died. The timing and symptoms of the deaths in the male fertility study were consistent with an 
immediate-type hypersensitivity (IgE-mediated) reaction to natalizumab.  Natalizumab was not found 
in the sera of any of the 20 males tested. But all 10 males that had cohabited with females receiving 10 
or 30 mg/kg of natalizumab were positive for anti-natalizumab antibodies, five at concentrations > 3 
pg/mL. Anti-natalizumab antibodies were not found in the sera of the five males that had been 
cohabitated with females receiving placebo in Study 309-005-02 and at a low level in only one of five 
males, which had been cohabitated with females receiving 3 mg/kg natalizumab. The mechanism of 
the sensitation of the male guineas pig remains unclear. 
In the female fertility study the influence of natalizumab on gestation length, gross pathology lesions, 
uterine and ovary weights in the females and the pregnancy rates were determined. Natalizumab 
treatment at 30 mg/kg resulted in a significant reduction (approx 50%) in pregnancy rates, an effect 
that was not seen at 0; 3 or 10 mg/kg.  The significant reduction of the pregnancy rates is addressed in 
the SPC. 
Embryo-foetal development 
The objective of the 2 studies studying embryo-foetal development was to evaluate the potential 
effects of natalizumab treatment on the development of foetal guinea pigs in females treated prior (2 
or 28 days) to implantation through the end of organogenesis.  
Natalizumab treatment had no effect on gross pathology lesions or uterine weights in the females. No 
effects were seen on pregnancy rate, number of corpora lutea, number of implantations, number of 
early or late resorption, or number of dead and live foetuses. Pregnancy rates were 73, 67, 83 and 73% 
in the vehicle, 3, 10, and 30 mg/kg groups, respectively. Skeletal malformations and variations were 
seen in pups from all groups. No histological changes in the heart, thymus, liver, spleen, and intestinal 
tract were seen that were considered treatment related. 
Alternate day dosing at doses up to 30 mg/kg was tolerated in pregnant female guinea pigs during the 
approximately 2 months of dosing. No significant abortion rates, fetotoxicity, or teratogenicity were 
observed following treatment with natalizumab prior to and through the period of organogenesis. 
The transfer of natalizumab to the guinea pig foetuses as well as the induction on anti-natalizumab 
antibodies was demonstrated.  
A study in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys treated with natalizumab during organogenesis (GD20-
GD70) demonstrated natalizumab-related changes in the foetus that included mild anaemia, reduced 
platelet counts, increased spleen weights and reduced liver and thymus weights.  These changes were 
associated with increased splenic extramedullary haematopoiesis, thymic atrophy and decreased 
©EMEA 2006 
11/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hepatic haematopoiesis.  No abortifacient effects, fetotoxicity, or teratogenicity was observed in the 
study following treatment with natalizumab through the period of organogenesis. 
Prenatal and postnatal development, including maternal function 
In  cynomolgus  monkeys  treated  with  natalizumab  until  parturition,  low  levels  of  natalizumab  were 
detected in the breast milk of some animals, indicating the possibility for transfer of natalizumab into 
breast milk in humans.  
One study (309-033-11) evaluated the potential for developmental effects in infants born to females 
treated  with  natalizumab  and  addressed  the  influence  of  natalizumab  on  the  immune  function.  The 
study  was  designed  to  assess  any  effects  in  offspring  following  exposure  during  organogenesis  and 
during  full  gestation  in  cynomolgus  monkeys.  Significant  numbers  of  pregnancies  were  lost  to 
abortions and stillbirths during the study.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity 
Four  tissue  cross-reactivity  studies  were  performed  with  the  parent  antibody  (AN100266m)  and 
natalizumab:  
•  murine parent of natalizumab (AN100266m) to adult human tissues; 
• 
cross-reactivity of natalizumab to adult human tissues including heart, kidney, liver, lung, and 
skeletal muscle tissue from MS patients in order to verify that inappropriate expression of α 4 
was not occurring in major organ systems 
cross-reactivity to adult cynomolgus monkey and guinea pig heart tissues  
cross-reactivity  of  natalizumab  to  fetal  tissues  from  humans  and  monkeys  (rhesus  and 
cynomolgus) 
• 
• 
Antigenicity was detected in almost all animals within 2-4 weeks depending on the administered dose 
of natalizumab that is interfering with the anti-natalizumab antibodies detection assays. High titres of 
apparently  neutralising  anti-natalizumab  antibodies  up  to  1600µg/ml  are  induced  in  cynomolgus 
monkeys.  
In some toxicity studies shock-like reactions with complement activation and the formation of immune 
complexes  due  to  high  levels  of  anti-natalizumab  antibodies  were  described  in  some  cynomolgus 
monkeys.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The environmental risk assessment of natalizumab followed primarily the draft of guidelines related to 
this issue. From the results obtained, it is concluded that natalizumab for I.V.injection is of no 
immediate risk to the environment and no proposals for labelling provisions are necessary to reduce 
any potential environmental risks. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspect 
Data  on  the  effects  of  α4-integrin  blockade  on  immune  function  in  normal  animals  (primarily  in 
cynomolgus  monkey)  and  isolated  human  peripheral  blood  mononuclear  cells  has  been  obtained 
during  the  development  program  for  natalizumab.  During  these  studies  specific  immune  function 
parameters  were  evaluated.  The  findings  suggest  that  the  immune  function  might  be  affected  by 
natalizumab treatment. 
Therefore, and additionally in the light of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) human 
cases, the applicant proposed studies to address this issue, as a follow-up measure. 
©EMEA 2006 
12/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.4  Clinical aspects 
GCP 
The applicant has stated that all clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP.  
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of intravenously administered natalizumab was systematically investigated in 3 
single infusion studies with healthy volunteers, in 9 target-population studies with MS patients (4 
single and 5 repeat infusions). In total, data from 486 patients could be gained. Additionally, two 
pharmacokinetic studies with Crohn’s disease patients were conducted. These data provided evidence 
that the pharmacokinetics of natalizumab is non-linear, resulting in a fixed dose recommendation (300 
mg).  
After a single dose, natalizumab was absorbed in a linear manner reaching maximum serum 
concentrations in a dose-dependent manner 1 to 2 hours after the end of infusion. AUC increased in a 
dose-related manner and greater than dose proportional through 6 mg/kg. All pharmacokinetic studies 
submitted consistently show a volume of distribution of natalizumab in the range of 60-80 ml/kg, 
independent of the given dose, being consistent with a distribution in the vascular phase. The 
elimination parameters clearance and t/2 showed dose-dependent relationships predominantly at lower 
doses but appeared to be constant and independent of the actual administered dose at higher dose 
levels (3 and 6 mg/kg or 300 mg fixed dose).  
Three studies evaluated the pharmacokinetics of natalizumab in the applied fixed 300mg target dose. 
The PK parameters determined for natalizumab were consistent with that observed following weight 
based dosing at 3 mg/kg and with the rationale for administering natalizumab via a fixed dose. 
A population PK analysis was performed in MS-patients from 4 repeated dose studies. The analysis 
explored the effects of selected covariates including body weight, age, gender, hepatic and renal 
function, and presence of anti-natalizumab antibodies upon pharmacokinetics.  Only body weight and 
the presence of anti-natalizumab antibodies were found to influence natalizumab disposition.  The 
presence of persistent anti-natalizumab antibodies increased natalizumab clearance approximately 
3-fold, consistent with reduced serum natalizumab concentrations observed in persistently antibody-
positive patients. 
For repeated dosing it remains unclear when steady state is reached. Based on a population 
pharmacokinetics analysis on samples from MS patients, including 581 patients who received a fixed 
300 mg dose as monotherapy, the mean ± SD steady-state clearance was 13.1 ± 5.0 ml/h, with a mean 
± SD half-life of 16 ± 4 days. This would indicate that steady state is reached within 12 weeks.  
However, natalizumab concentrations from the long-term studies indicate that steady state might be 
reached after about 36 weeks.  The Applicant committed to further study the pharmacokinetics of 
natalizumab in MS patients in a post-marketing setting, in order to clarify the observed discrepancies. 
•  Special populations 
No specific studies have been conducted in elderly patients or in patients with liver or renal 
impairment.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Natalizumab is a selective adhesion-molecule inhibitor and binds to the α4-subunit of human integrins, 
which is highly expressed on the surface of all leukocytes, with the exception of neutrophils.  
Specifically, natalizumab binds to the α4β1 integrin, blocking the interaction with its cognate receptor, 
©EMEA 2006 
13/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and ligands osteopontin, and an alternatively spliced 
domain of fibronectin, connecting segment-1 (CS-1).  Natalizumab blocks the interaction of α4β7 
integrin with the mucosal addressing cell adhesion molecule-1 (MadCAM-1).  Disruption of these 
molecular interactions prevents transmigration of mononuclear leukocytes across the endothelium into 
inflamed parenchymal tissue.  A further mechanism of action of natalizumab may be to suppress 
ongoing inflammatory reactions in diseased tissues by inhibiting the interaction of α4-expressing 
leukocytes with their ligands in the extracellular matrix and on parenchymal cells.  As such, 
natalizumab may act to suppress inflammatory activity present at the disease site, and inhibit further 
recruitment of immune cells into inflamed tissues. 
With regard to its mechanism of action, i.e. to block the transmigration of leukocytes into inflamed 
tissue, the α4-integrin saturation on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and the total 
lymphocyte count were used to evaluate the pharmacodynamics of natalizumab. After a single dose, 
α4-integrin saturation increased immediately up to more than 90% and decreased faster in a dose-
related manner 4 weeks later. Monthly dosing of natalizumab resulted in sustained α4-integrin 
saturation levels between 70 and 80%. Mean trough serum concentrations associated with a saturation 
level of 70% ranged from 15.3 to 25.9µg/ml. Elevations in absolute lymphocyte counts were within 
the normal range and relatively stable across studies. Saturation of α-integrin never fell below 70%, a 
circumstance sufficient to confer activity. However, phase III trial C-1802 shows a tendency for the 
repeated 300 mg dose of natalizumab to induce accumulation. This effect, less evident in the other 
studies submitted, indicates that the 300 mg dose may be too high in certain subjects.   
Pharmacodynamic and dose-response characteristics of natalizumab have not been evaluated with 
regard to their relationship to efficacy endpoints. 
The immunogenicity of natalizumab was investigated by screening blood samples for anti-natalizumab 
antibodies.  All  positive  samples  were  analysed  for  their  blocking/neutralizing  effect  and  all  positive 
samples were positive in both assays. In MS patients who received a single dose of the commercial 
material the overall observed incidence of anti-natalizumab antibodies (HAHA = human anti-human 
antibodies)  after  one  single  dose  of  natalizumab  was  21%  with  a  wide  inter-trial-range  and  slightly 
higher  than  in  healthy  volunteers  (12-16%)  The  response  was  visible  within  5  weeks.  After  repeat 
infusions  the  HAHA  incidence  was  reduced  to  12%,  and  in  the  phase  III  studies  to  10%.  In  2-year 
controlled  clinical  trials  in  MS  patients,  persistent  anti-natalizumab  antibodies  (one  positive  test 
reproducible  on  retesting  at  least  6 weeks  later)  developed  in  approximately  6%  of  patients.    
Persistent  antibodies  were  associated  with  a  substantial  decrease  in  the  effectiveness  of  natalizumab 
and  an  increased  incidence  of  hypersensitivity  reactions.  Consequently,  a  warning  is  included  in 
section 4.8 of the SPC, giving guidance to the prescriber when to measure anti-natalizumab antibodies 
and how to proceed in case of persistent positivity. 
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical development programme for the claimed indications comprises of three supportive phase 
II studies and two pivotal phase III trials.  The study programme for natalizumab in MS treatment as a 
disease-modifying  drug  focused  on  two  main  branches,  i.e.  (1)  the  evaluation  of  natalizumab  as 
monotherapy and (2) the evaluation as add-on therapy to intramuscular interferon-ß1a (Avonex). As 
main studies, data were presented from phase III trials (C-1801, C-1802), employing a fixed 300mg 
dose.  C-1801  evaluated  natalizumab  as  a  monotherapy,  C-1802  evaluated  natalizumab  as  an  add-on 
therapy  to  Avonex  in  patients  still  relapsing  while  on  Avonex  therapy  (so-called  “breakthrough 
disease”).  Both  phase  III  studies  were  two-armed  studies  with  placebo  (C-1802:  Avonex 
monotherapy) as comparator. 
•  Supportive phase II studies 
Study MS 231 
Study MS 231 evaluated natalizumab monotherapy, comparing two dosages related to body weight 
(3mg/kg and 6mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks, respectively) to placebo during 6 months with a 
follow-up of further 6 months after discontinuation of treatment. 213 patients (152 females, 61 males) 
were analysed (214 randomized, one erroneously) with 71 patients receiving placebo, 68 patients 
©EMEA 2006 
14/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
receiving 3mg/kg natalizumab and 74 patients 6mg/kg natalizumab.  Primary objective was to 
examine the effect of six monthly infusions of either 3mg/kg or 6mg/kg natalizumab on brain lesion 
activity as assessed by MRI, compared to placebo, in subjects with relapsing remitting MS or 
progressive MS. Secondary objectives were the assessment of safety, tolerability, immunogenicity and 
additional clinical and MRI efficacy parameters, as well as PK and PD evaluations in a subset of 
patients. 
The  study  met  its  primary  endpoint  in  the  number  of  new  Gd-enhancing  lesions  from  baseline  to 
month 6 for both dosage groups in favour of natalizumab (p<0.001).  After cessation of treatment, i.e. 
in  the  6-month  follow-up  period  (months  7-12),  no  further  treatment  effect  was  observed.  Also,  the 
number of new Gd-enhancing lesions did not exceed that of the placebo group, i.e. no rebound effect 
was observed concerning the number of lesions.   
Additionally,  as  a  secondary  endpoint  in  this  study,  the  volume  of  new  enhancing  lesions  was 
statistically  significantly  suppressed  by  natalizumab,  again  with  a  faster  onset  in  the  3mg/kg  group 
already  significant  at  month  1  and  slightly  higher  in  terms  of  relative  reduction  (87%  compared  to 
placebo vs. 76% for 6mg/kg compared to placebo).  While remaining stable in the placebo group, the 
number  of  persisting  Gd-enhancing  lesions  was  reduced  in  both  natalizumab  groups  at  month  6. 
Interestingly,  after  cessation  of  natalizumab,  in  both  verum  arms  the  number  of  persisting  Gd-
enhancing lesions remained reduced.  Concerning T1 hypointense lesions, both number and volume of 
newly evolving lesions was suppressed in both dosage groups at month 6.  Accordingly, both number 
and volume of T2 hyperintense lesions were reduced by both dosages. After discontinuation, the mean 
number of lesions approximated the placebo group, while the mean volume increase of these lesions 
exceeded that of the placebo group for both dosage groups (change of volumes between month 6 and 
12: placebo group 1177.8±2290.21, natalizumab 3mg/kg group 1746.7±2979.87, natalizumab 6mg/kg 
group 2010.2±3773.79). 
Subgroup analysis according to MS subtype (RRMS or SPMS, respectively) 
The  primary  analysis  according  to  MS  subtype  was  defined  post-hoc.  For  RRMS,  statistically 
significant  reductions  in  new  Gd-enhancing  lesions  were  observed  for  both  dosages  (mean  numbers 
12.1 for placebo, 0.6 for 3mg/kg and 0.6 for 6mg/kg). For SPMS, a statistical significance was only 
seen for the lower dosage group (mean number of lesions 5.4 for placebo, 1.0 for 3mg/kg [p=0.005] 
and 2.0 for 6mg/kg [p=0.083]). 
Study MS 201 
This was a randomised, double blind, parallel-group placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effect of 
natalizumab on MRI brain lesion activity. Ninety-nine patients with clinically definite RRMS (74%) 
or SPMS (26%) were randomized to receive two infusions (4 weeks apart) of either placebo or 3mg/kg 
natalizumab.  Seventy-two  patients  were  included  in  the  ITT  analysis  (n=37  in  the  natalizumab  arm, 
n=35  in  the  placebo  arm).  Primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  number  of  new  active  lesions  in  MRI 
during the 12-week observation period following the first infusion. Active lesion was defined as either 
new enhancing lesion in T1-weighted scans or new or newly enlarging but not enhancing lesions on 
T2-weighted  scans.  Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  were  the  number  of  new  active  lesions  during  the 
second 12 week observation period (i.e. weeks 12 – 24), new Gd-enhancing lesions, the evaluation of 
pre-existing  enhancing  lesions,  persistent  enhancing  lesions,  new  and  enlarging  T2  lesions,  new  T1 
hypointense lesions, number of exacerbations, EDSS and Guy’s Neurological Disability Scale.  
The  study  met  its  primary  endpoint  with  statistical  significance  in  favour  of  natalizumab  (ITT 
population:  1.9±3.6  lesions  with  natalizumab  vs.  3.5±4.9  lesions  with  placebo,  p=0.042).  For 
secondary MRI endpoints, the evaluation of the number of new active lesions during the weeks 12 - 24 
showed that efficacy was no more observed and slightly more new lesions evolved in the natalizumab 
group  (4.4  in  the  natalizumab  arm  vs.  3.6  in  the  placebo  arm;  estimated  difference  adjusted  for 
baseline number of lesions 0.0, p=0.977). Accordingly, the number of new Gd-enhancing lesions was 
lower in the natalizumab group (mean number 1.7 for natalizumab, 3.2 for placebo) during weeks 0-
12, being  statistically  significant  after  adjustment for  baseline  lesion  count  (p=0.017),  while  slightly 
higher in the natalizumab group with no obvious prolonged efficacy after discontinuation (weeks 12-
24: mean 4.0 for natalizumab, 3.3 for placebo). 
©EMEA 2006 
15/32 
 
 
 
 
 
Study MS 202 
This study was a 14-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-finding, parallel-group multi-centre 
study that enrolled a total of 180 patients to receive either placebo (n=63), 1mg/kg natalizumab (n=57) 
or 3mg/kg natalizumab (n=60) as a single infusion in acute exacerbation of MS. 
Both RRMS and SPMS patients were included. Primary endpoint was the mean change from baseline 
to week 1 EDSS, secondary endpoints were EDSS  change from  baseline to week 2, SNRS (Scripps 
Neurological Rating Scale) mean change score from baseline to weeks 1 and 2, PGA (patient global 
assessment)  at  weeks  1  and  2,  improvement  in  Gd-enhancing  lesions  at  weeks  1  and  3,  and  the 
proportion of patients with steroid use during the study. The study was negative both in the primary 
(patients  recovered  equally)  and  the  secondary  endpoints  assessed  at  weeks  1,  2  and  3.  A  higher 
number  of  patients  in  the  natalizumab  3mg/kg  group  had  fewer  new  Gd-enhancing  lesions  at  both 
weeks 1 and 3 than patients in the placebo group, although this effect was not statistically significant. 
There was a statistically significant difference for the change from baseline to weeks 1 and 3 in the 
mean volumetric increase of Gd-enhancing lesions, being smaller in the combined natalizumab groups 
than in the placebo group. 
•  Pivotal studies  
Methods 
Both phase III studies were designed with two sets of objectives and endpoints, one set at one year (for 
the 1-year evaluation) and the other set at two years (for the 2-year evaluation), respectively.  
For both studies, key inclusion and exclusion criteria were as follows: 
Inclusion criteria 
Age range (years) 
Diagnosis 
C-1801 
18-50 
RRMS 
(McDonald criteria) 
C-1802 
18-55 
Relapse history 
≥1 relapses in prior 1 year 
Baseline EDSS 
0.0 – 5.0 
≥1 relapses in prior 1 year 
despite Avonex therapy 
Baseline MRI 
Brain MRI demonstrating lesion(s) consistent with MS 
Baseline medication 
MAIN EXCLUSION CRITERIA 
Avonex therapy 
for at least 1 year 
MS types 
Treatments not allowed 
at any time in the past 
Prior immunomodulatory 
or immunosuppressant 
therapy 
time-frame 
drugs 
IV or oral 
glucocorticosteroids 
Factors in patient history 
C-1801 
C-1802 
PPMS/SPMS 
Total lymphoid irradiation, cladribine, T-cell or T-cell receptor vaccination, natalizumab 
or any other monoclonal antibody 
PPMS/SPMS 
≤ 6 months 
≤ 6 months 
(patients excluded if history of ≥6 months 
on interferon) 
≤ 50 days 
(with the exception that the patients required 
Avonex therapy for at least 1 year) 
- MS exacerbation within 50 days 
- clinically significant infection within 30 days of enrolment 
©EMEA 2006 
16/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- history or abnormal laboratory results of significant cardiac, endocrinologic, 
haematological, hepatic, immunologic, metabolic, urologic, pulmonary, gastrointestinal, 
dermatologic, psychiatric, renal and/or other major disease 
- history of severe allergic or anaphylactic reactions 
- Inability to perform timed 25-foot walk, 9-HPT (9-Hole Peg Test) with both upper 
extremities and PASAT-3 (3-second Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test) 
Study  C-1801  randomized  942  subjects,  939  being  dosed  (3  subjects  withdrew  without  dosing,  all 
from the placebo group). In total, 627 subjects were randomized to receive 300 mg natalizumab, 315 
to receive placebo. In study C-1802, 1196 patients were enrolled; after exclusion of 25 subjects from a 
closed site, 1171 subjects were included in the analysis: 589 received natalizumab as add-on therapy 
to Avonex, 582 placebo as add-on to Avonex.  
Study 
Design/control 
C-1801 
Phase III 
Monotherapy 
Placebo-controlled 
2 years of 
treatment 
Number of 
patients 
(female/male)
942 
(660/282) 
Posology 
IV infusions every 4 
wks 
Fixed dose 
Placebo (n=315) 
300 mg  (n=627) 
MS type(s) 
to be 
included 
RRMS 
as defined 
by 
McDonald 
criteria 
(2001) 
C-1802 
Phase III 
1171 
(862/309) 
Combination 
therapy 
Placebo-controlled 
2 years of 
treatment 
IV infusions every 4 
wks 
as add-on to Avonex 
30µg IM once weekly 
Fixed dose 
Placebo (n=582) 
300 mg  (n=589) 
RRMS 
as defined 
by 
McDonald 
criteria 
(2001) 
Efficacy endpoints 
1-YEAR 
Primary: 
ARR5) 
Secondary: 
- number of new or 
newly enlarging T2 
lesions 
- number of Gd-enh. 
lesions 
- proportion of relapse-
free subjects 
2-YEARS 
Primary: 
EDSS progression 
Secondary: 
- Clinical relapse rate 
- Volume of T2 lesions 
- Number of T1 lesions 
- MSFC progression 
See C-1801 
1) Gd, Gadolinium; 2) MRI, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, 3) EDSS, Expanded Disability Status Scale, 4) MSFC, Multiple Sclerosis Functional 
Composite, 5) ARR, Annualised Relapse Rate 
In  the phase  III  studies  C-1801  and  C-1802,  a  relapse  was  prospectively defined  in  the  protocols  as 
new or recurrent neurological symptoms, not associated with fever or infection, lasting for at least 24 
hours,  and  accompanied  by  new  objective  neurological  findings  upon  examination  by  an  examining 
neurologist.  The  patient  had  to  have  objective  signs  on  the  examining  neurologist’s  examination 
confirming  the  event  as  defined  by  the  McDonald  criteria  (2001):  New  or  recurrent  neurological 
symptoms that evolved gradually over months were considered as disease progression, and were not 
counted as an acute relapse. New or recurrent neurological symptoms that occurred less than 30 days 
following the onset of a relapse were considered part of the same relapse and were not included into 
the calculation of the relapse rate. 
©EMEA 2006 
17/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two sets of endpoints were defined, one set for the 1-year analysis and a set for the 2-year analysis: 
1-year analysis 
2-year analysis 
Primary endpoint 
Annualized relapse rate (ARR) 
calculated as total number of relapses 
divided by total days of exposure, 
multiplied by 365 
Secondary endpoints 
(in order of decreasing 
relevance) 
Key Tertiary endpoints2) 
- mean number of new (or newly 
enlarging) T2 hyperintense lesions*) 
- mean number of Gd-enh. lesions 
- proportion of relapse-free patients 
- VAS assessing patient´s global 
impression 
- MSQLI (MS Quality of Life 
Inventory, English only) or SF-36 
(where available) 
- number of relapses requiring IV 
steroid use 
- number of hospitalizations 
Sustained (i.e. 12 weeks duration) EDSS 
increase from baseline, defined as: 
1. for baseline EDSS≥1.0: increase of ≥ 1.0 
points 
2. for baseline EDSS=0.0: increase of ≥ 1.5 
points 
- relapse rate 
- mean volume of T2 hyperintense lesions 
- mean number of T1 hypointense lesions 
- MSFC progression 
- effect on brain atrophy (brain parenchymal 
fraction in the MRI) 
- number/volume of Gd-enhancing lesions 
- proportion of relapse-free patients 
- volume of T1 hypointense lesions 
- extent of confirmed EDSS change 
- time to sustained progression 
- cognitive changes (PASAT-3) 
- visual function (Sloan letter chart) 
- number of hospitalizations 
1) Compared between treatment groups using ordinal logistic regression (proportional odds model) in the ITT population. The analysis model 
included a term for treatment group, and for the number of T2 lesions at baseline (T2 lesions <9 versus ≥9). For subjects with missing data 
for the number of new or newly-enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions at 1 year, the mean value for the study population was used in the 
summaries and analyses as the imputed value. For the purpose of the statistical analysis, the number of lesions was classified as 0, 1, 2, 3, or 
≥4. Imputed values were rounded before being categorized. 
2) Note that for the tertiary endpoints of the studies for the 2-year analysis, some measures were not explicitly labelled as “2-year” endpoints 
in the study protocol. For these, a contribution to the 2-year analysis was assumed (e.g. effect on brain atrophy) from the lack of data 
presented after one year. 
In  studies  C-1801  and  C-1802  identical  statistical  methods  were  applied.  Each  study  includes  two 
primary endpoints; relapse rate analyzed at 1 year and disability progression to be analyzed at 2 years.  
For the 2-year analysis, the primary objective focused on disability: The Expanded Disability Status 
Scale (EDSS) was measured at baseline, Week 12, and at 12-week intervals thereafter up to and 
including Week 120.  The Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite (MSFC) was evaluated at the 
same visits as EDSS.  The change from baseline MSFC at 2 years was a secondary endpoint. 
©EMEA 2006 
18/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
PARTICIPANT FLOW 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Randomised 
C-1801:  n=942 
C-1802:  n=1196 
Excluded 
C-1802: n=25 (one centre 
closed after 4 months activity 
due to non-compliance) 
Allocated to PLACEBO (±Avonex) 
C-1801: n=315 (placebo only) 
     (ITT) 
C-1802: n=582 (placebo + Avonex)  (ITT) 
Received allocated intervention: 
C-1801: n=312 (99%) 
C-1802: n=582 (100%) 
Did not receive allocated intervention 
C-1801: n=3 
C-1802: n=0 
Allocated to NATALIZUMAB (±Avonex) 
C-1801: n=627 (natalizumab only) 
C-1802: n=589 (natalizumab + Avonex) 
Received allocated intervention 
C-1801: n=627 (100%) 
C-1802: n=589 (100%) 
Did not receive Allocated intervention 
C-1801: n=0 
C-1802: n=0 
(ITT)
(ITT)
C-1801  C-1802 
C-1801  C-1802 
Withdrawals from study 
Total 
- lost to follow-up: 
- adverse event: 
- voluntary: 
- non-compliance: 
- death: 
- other: 
n=18 
(6%) 
n=2 
n=6 
n=8 
n=0 
n=0 
n=2 
Discontinued dosing 
Total 
- lost to follow-up: 
- adverse event: 
- voluntary: 
- non-compliance 
- other: 
n=25 
(8%) 
n=2 
n=8 
n=11 
n=0 
n=4 
n=41 
(7%) 
n=2 
n=4 
n=24 
n=1 
n=1 
n=9 
n=70 
(12%) 
n=2 
n=24 
n=30 
n=1 
n=13 
Withdrawals from study 
Total 
- lost to follow-up: 
- adverse event: 
- voluntary: 
- non-compliance: 
- death: 
- other: 
n=21 
(3%) 
n=0 
n=12 
n=4 
n=1 
n=0 
n=4 
Discontinued dosing 
Total 
- lost to follow-up: 
- adverse event: 
- voluntary: 
- non-compliance 
- other: 
n=44 
(7%) 
n=0 
n=31 
n=7 
n=1 
n=5 
n=29 
(5%) 
n=3 
n=7 
n=11 
n=1 
n=0 
n=7 
n=61 
(10%) 
n=3 
n=33 
n=16 
n=3 
n=6 
Analysed 
C-1801: ITT n=315 (100%) 
C-1802: ITT n=582 (100%) 
Analysed 
C-1801: ITT n=627 (100%) 
C-1802: ITT n=589 (100%) 
Demographic and baseline disease characteristics were similar between the treatment groups in each 
study, except differences in gender in study C-1801 (slightly higher proportion of females in the 
verum group), longer disease duration in the placebo groups of both studies (one year) and a higher 
baseline EDSS (0.5 points) in the placebo group of trial C-1802. 
Clinical response 
One-year data 
After one year, the annualized relapse rate was significantly reduced in both studies, and MRI activity 
markedly suppressed. In 96% of patients that received natalizumab in both studies, Gd-enhancing 
©EMEA 2006 
19/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lesions were completely absent after one year. Therefore, natalizumab, either as monotherapy or as 
add-on therapy to Avonex, showed profound efficacy. The results were consistent across most relevant 
subgroups (with the exception of T2 lesion load at baseline). Newer publications on the impact of 
relapses on MS progression suggest a relevant impact of relapses on the progression of disability in 
the initial phase of the disease (i.e. in EDSS ranges below 4.0). Although the suppression of MRI 
activity is clinically meaningful, given newer scientific data that show that extensive axonal damage 
takes place in active demyelinating lesions, the potential clinical and prognostic impact of this finding 
has to be further emphasised. 
Table: Key efficacy data from phase III studies in RRMS after one year 
C-1801 
(Monotherapy) 
C-1802 
(Combination with Avonex) 
Placebo 
Natalizumab 
Placebo/Avonex 
Nataliz./Avonex 
PRIMARY ENDPOINT 
0.805 
(0.669-0.969) 
0.261 
(0.211-0.323) 
0.816 
(0.721-0.923) 
0.383 
(0.325-0.450) 
68% 
(p<0.001) 
SECONDARY ENDPOINTS 
6.1 
22% 
13% 
57% 
1.2 
68% 
53% 
1.2 
80% (p<0.001) 
60% 
18% 
16% 
0.1 
92% (p<0.001)3) 
96% 
76% 
(p<0.001)4) 
2.1 
40% 
29% 
21% 
0.8 
76% 
46% 
53% 
(p<0.001) 
0.5 
76% (p<0.001) 
67% 
26% 
3% 
0.1 
88% (p<0.001)3) 
96% 
67% 
(p<0.001)4) 
Annualized relapse rate 
(ARR) 
Absolute values1) 
(95% CI) 
% reduction 
new (or newly enlarging) 
T2 hyperintense lesions2) 
- mean number 
- % reduction 
- % of patients developing 
  no new lesions 
- % of patients developing 
  only a single lesion 
- % of patients developing 
  or enlarging ≥ 3 lesions 
Gd-enhancing lesions 
- mean number 
- % reduction 
- completely absent (%) 
proportion of relapse-free 
patients 
1) from Poisson regression adjusted for the number of relapses in the one year prior to study entry, baseline EDSS (≤3.5 vs. >3.5), presence of 
Gd lesions (present vs. absent), and age (<40 vs. ≥40). 
2) Missing values were imputed using the mean number of T2 hyperintense lesions in the study population. Both baseline and 1- 
   year MRI data were available from 893 of the 942 randomized patients for study C-1801 and from 990 of 1171 patients for 
   study C-1802, respectively, due to the timing of the 1-year analysis and due to withdrawal of some patients. 
3) p-value for comparison based on ordinal logistic regression adjusted for baseline number of T2 lesions (<9 vs. ≥9 lesions). 
4) logistic regression adjusting for the number of relapses in the previous year. 
Two-year data 
Monotherapy (C-1801):  
Treatment with 300 mg natalizumab resulted in a 42% decrease in the risk of disability progression, as 
measured by sustained changes on EDSS, when compared to placebo over a 2-year period (p<0.001). 
These  results  were  confirmed  by  an  alternative  scoring  system,  the  Multiple  Sclerosis  Functional 
Composite  (MSFC).  The  highly  significant  reduction  in  the  annual  relapse  rate  (ARR)  that  was  the 
central  argument  for  efficacy  of  the  initial  submission  was  confirmed  after  2  years:  Treatment  with 
300  mg  natalizumab  resulted  in  a  68%  decrease  in  the  annualized  relapse  rate  versus  placebo  over 
both  1  and  2  years  (p<0.001  for  both  time  points).  The  effect  was  consistent  across  all  subgroups 
regardless of age, gender, race, weight, baseline disease activity, and MS disease history. 
©EMEA 2006 
20/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The time to sustained progression of disability in the ITT population as measured in study C-1801 is 
depicted below. 
The main features and results of the study are also tabulated in section 5.1 of the SPC (also including 
one year outcome data). 
Resembling  efficacy  data  at  one  year,  the  only  subgroup  in  which  the  treatment  effect  on  disability 
progression was not apparent was the subgroup with fewer than 9 baseline T2 hyperintense lesions. In 
the  lower  T2  hyperintense  lesion  burden  subgroup  of  44  subjects,  the  hazard  ratio  for  sustained 
disability progression was 1.31 (CI 0.26-6.66), indicating a non-significant difference between placebo 
and active treatments groups. Possibly, this finding might again hint that in patients with lower disease 
activity, the impact of natalizumab treatment is markedly lower.  
As  regards  other  clinically  relevant  measures  of  disability,  i.e.  time  to  more  severe  disability  (i.e. 
EDSS≥4.0)  or  even  a  need  for  walking  aid  (EDSS≥6.0),  progression  was  statistically  significantly 
reduced  as  compared  to  placebo.  This  is  highly  relevant  not  only  for  the  patient,  but  also  from  a 
socioeconomic  perspective,  since  these  patients  frequently  become  unable  to  work.  The  effect  on 
disability was confirmed by the MSFC evaluation, both on the overall score and the scores for each 
component in a statistically significant manner. Also with visual function and quality of life measures 
(both  on  mental  and  physical  component  of  the  SF-36)  significant  improvements  were  detected  as 
compared to placebo. 
Through  year  2,  there  was  an  83%  reduction  in  the  number  of  new  or  newly-enlarging  T2-
hyperintense  lesions  in  natalizumab-treated  subjects  compared  to  placebo  (p<0.001).  In  the 
natalizumab group, 57% of subjects developed no lesions and 17% had a single new or enlarging T2-
hyperintense lesion. In the placebo group, 15% of subjects developed no lesions and 10% had a single 
new or enlarging T2-hyperintense lesion. 96% of subjects in the natalizumab group were free of Gd-
enhancing  lesions  after  1  year  of  treatment,  and  97%  after  2  years.  The  development  of  T1 
hypointense  lesions  was  reduced  by  76%.  It  is  estimated  that  half  of  acute  T1  hypointense  lesions 
©EMEA 2006 
21/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(which often correspond with inflammatory Gd-enhancing lesions) will evolve into chronic T1 “black 
holes” which correlate with disability progression (areas with axonal loss). Brain parenchymal fraction 
(BPF) was assessed as a marker of destructive pathologic processes ongoing in relapsing MS subjects, 
and changes indice a loss of brain tissue. During the first year of treatment, the effect of natalizumab 
on  brain  atrophy  seemed  to  have  been  masked  by  a  reduction  in  inflammation  and  edema,  which 
caused an acute shrinkage in brain tissue (“pseudo-atrophy”). During the second year of treatment, the 
mean percentage decrease  in BPF was significantly less in the natalizumab group as compared with 
the  placebo  group  (0.24%  vs.  0.43%;  p=0.004).  This  might  indicate  a  beneficial  effect  on  brain 
atrophy that could in the overall two-year data be masked by “pseudo-atrophy” occurring in the first 
year of treatment (0.80% vs, 0.82%; p=0.822). 
In the 6% of natalizumab-treated patients who developed persistent antibodies to natalizumab, efficacy 
was greatly diminished. 
Combination therapy with Avonex (C-1802): 
Treatment with 300 mg natalizumab when added to Avonex resulted in a 24% decrease in the risk of 
disability  progression,  as  measured  by  changes  on  EDSS,  when  compared  to  Avonex  monotherapy 
over a 2-year period (p=0.024). Treatment with 300 mg natalizumab when added to Avonex resulted 
in a 53% decrease in the annualized relapse rate over 1 year and in a 55% decrease in the annualized 
relapse  rate  over  2  years  versus  treatment  with  placebo  plus  Avonex  in  subjects  inadequately 
responding to Avonex (p<0.001 for both time points). The effect was consistent across all subgroups 
regardless of age, gender, race, weight, baseline disease activity, and MS disease history. Again, as for 
study C-1801, the only subgroup where no apparent effect on disability progression was observed was 
the subgroup with fewer than 9 T2 hyperintense lesions at baseline. 
The effect on disability was confirmed by the MSFC evaluation in the overall score and the scores for 
the components 25-foot walk (T25FW) and 9-hole peg test (9HPT) in a statistically significant manner 
(p<0.001), however not for the cognitive change as measured by PASAT 3 (p=0.159). 
Through year 2, there was an 83% reduction in the number of new or newly enlarging T2-hyperintense 
lesions in the Avonex plus natalizumab group compared to the Avonex plus placebo group (p<0.001). 
In the Avonex plus natalizumab group, 67% of subjects developed no lesions and 13% had a new or 
enlarging single T2-hyperintense lesion. In the Avonex plus placebo group, 30% of subjects developed 
no  lesions  and  9%  had  a  new  or  enlarging  single  T2-hyperintense  lesion.  96%  of  subjects  in  the 
natalizumab  plus  Avonex  group  were  free  of  Gd-enhancing  lesions  after  both  1  and  2  years  of 
treatment. The development of T1 hypointense lesions was reduced by 44%. 
In the 6% of patients who developed antibodies to natalizumab, efficacy was diminished. 
Add-on therapy to Avonex treatment 
Comparison of the baseline number of Gd-enhancing lesions between monotherapy and combination 
therapy study showed a reduced number in the combination therapy study, which could point to some 
disease-modifying effect of Avonex in the time before entry. However, the efficacy outcomes both in 
the  one-year  and  the  two-year  analyses  show  somewhat  comparable  efficacy  of  natalizumab  in  the 
verum groups of both studies. This had already with the one-year data led to the consideration that this 
could point to a dominating effect of natalizumab that might not necessarily justify the continuation of 
Avonex  once  natalizumab  has  been  initiated.  The  design  of  the  respective  study  allows  only  for  the 
evaluation  of  the  additive  effect  of  natalizumab  as  add-on  to  Avonex  compared  to  Avonex 
monotherapy, but does not allow the evaluation of the relative contribution of Avonex to this efficacy 
due to the lack of a natalizumab monotherapy arm. 
It  was  further  observed  that  patients  in  the  control  arm  of  study  C-1802  might  not  have  been 
adequately treated () . Since the relapse rate outcome after one year in the placebo groups of both trials 
was rather similar, this patient population was enriched by many primary interferon non-responders. 
Finally,  two  cases  of  PML,  one  fatal,  were  observed  in  patients  treated  with  the  combination  of 
natalizumab  and  Avonex  for  more  than  2  years,  rendering  the  combination  therapy  with  Avonex 
obsolete. 
©EMEA 2006 
22/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Based  on  the  2-year  data  that  were  submitted  by  the  Applicant,  data  suggest  that  efficacy  is  not 
substantially different among weight groups, neither in terms of progression of disability, nor in terms 
of relapse rate or MRI parameters. However, an impact of the relative overdose in subjects with low 
bodyweight on long-term safety cannot be excluded, and the Applicant committed to evaluate adverse 
events in relation to body weight on a regular basis as part of the PSURs. 
•  Subgroup analyses 
Patients with low disease activity as measured by MRI 
The finding that natalizumab treatment might show a smaller clinical benefit in patients with a lower 
lesion  load  (<9  lesions)  was  confirmed  with  the  two-year  data  from  both  pivotal  trials.  While  this 
finding  could  stem  from  methodological  issues  like  a  low  relapse  rate  in  the  placebo  group  and  the 
relatively  small  number  of  patients  in  this  subgroup,  patients  with  lower  lesion  load  often  exhibit  a 
better  prognosis  that  might  not  justify  the  use  of  an  MS  drug  in  any  case  during  this  stage  of  the 
disease,  also  given  the  potential  occurrence  of  opportunistic  infections  including  PML  during  long-
term treatment with natalizumab. 
Patients with progressive MS (SPMS) 
Data supporting the claim for a broader indication (also including patients with progressive forms of 
MS that still relapse) are rather sparse and stem only from a limited number of patients from phase II 
studies  MS  231  and  MS  201.  For  study  MS  231,  statistical  significance  in  the  primary  endpoint 
(number  of  new  Gd-enhancing  lesions)  was  only  reached  for  the  lower  dose  of  natalizumab.  No 
efficacy data exist in relapsing SPMS with the fixed dose regimen.  
•  Rebound after discontinuation 
Data from the phase II study MS 231, where patients received 6 months of active treatment and a 
follow-up of additional 6 months after treatment discontinuation, suggested that there might be the 
danger of a subclinical rebound of MRI lesions, exceeding those in the placebo group. After 
discontinuation of natalizumab, the volume increase of T2 demyelinating lesions exceeded that of the 
placebo group for both dosage groups by more than double. Further, the volume increase from month 
6 to month 12 of T1 hypointense lesions was approximately 3 times higher in the higher dose group 
than for placebo or the lower dose group, respectively. It still remains unclear if such findings might 
be hints for a possible MRI rebound after cessation, or if these are only chance findings due to MRI 
lesion natural variability and the short observation period. A slightly higher MRI lesion load (new 
active lesions) upon discontinuation was also observed in supportive study MS 201. Such rebound was 
not seen in the clinical measures, but such MRI rebound might not (yet) have become clinically 
obvious, since many MS lesions are clinically quiescent for a long period of time. 
After cessation of dosage in all MS patients after the occurrence of the PML cases, considerable MRI 
data were obtained. The Applicant was asked to present relevant data from patients having completed 
their post-dosing MRI at least 2 months after cessation of dosing, stratified for adequate time intervals, 
to  evaluate  possible  signs  of  MRI  rebound.  The  available  data,  limited  by  some  shortcomings  by 
nature  like  no  placebo  comparator,  differences  in  slice  thickness,  and  varying  time-points  both  in 
terms of last MRI and last dose of natalizumab, indicate that no major rebound may occur.  However, 
the Applicant commits to evaluate further data in a post-marketing setting, e.g. as part of open label 
extension study C-1808. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Based on the results as presented, the conclusion can be drawn that natalizumab has a profound effect 
both on clinical activity (as measured by relapse rate and MRI endpoints) and progression of disability 
(as measured by EDSS and MSFC). The efficacy that was already apparent with the one-year 
endpoints was maintained at two years. 
Clinical safety 
©EMEA 2006 
23/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Patient exposure 
Over 4,500 person-years of experience with natalizumab exist between the MS and Crohn Disease 
programmes.  Of the 1,617 MS subjects treated with natalizumab in the placebo-controlled experience, 
the majority (1,271 or 79%) have received the fixed dose of 300 mg; 1,123 (69%) have been followed 
for at least 1 year, and 1,062 (66%) have been followed for over 2 years, satisfying, and indeed 
exceeding ICH safety database requirements.   
All patients of C-1801 and C-1802 studies who received at least 1 dose of study drug and had at least 
1 post baseline assessment were reported in the safety analysis. The safety data were based on the 
results from 8 target indication studies in relapsing Multiple Sclerosis (including both RRMS and 
SPMS), 9 non-target indication studies in Crohn’s disease (CD) patients and additional bioequivalence 
data from clinical and commercial products.  Dosing in relapsing MS and active CD was intravenous 
(IV) every 4 weeks at doses up to 6 mg/kg or at a fixed dose of 300 mg. In two relapsing MS studies 
natalizumab was combined with Avonex or Copaxone. The fixed dose of 300 mg   is the intended dose 
for marketing natalizumab. 
•  Safety in clinical trials 
In general the incidence of commonly occurring adverse events was balanced between the verum and 
placebo  groups.  The  most  common  events  in  the  pooled  MS  study  populations  were  headache,  MS 
relapse, nasopharyngitis, fatigue, back pain, arthralgia, pain in extremity, depression, upper respiratory 
tract  infection  NOS,  and  urinary  tract  infection  NOS.    In  the  placebo-controlled  MS  studies,  the 
incidence  of  depressive  disorders  was  similar  in  natalizumab-treated  subjects  (15.6%)  compared  to 
placebo-treated  subjects  (15.1%).  Hypersensitivity  reactions  were  the  most  common  cause  of 
discontinuation in the natalizumab treatment group. Adverse events of pharyngitis (7.7% natalizumab, 
5.2% placebo), gastroenteritis NOS  (3.5%, 1.9%), peripheral oedema (3.8%, 2.2%), and rigors (3.4%, 
1.1%) occurred at an incidence at least 1.5% higher in the natalizumab treatment group.  Events being 
judged  by  investigators  as  related  to  natalizumab  which  occurred  at  a  0.5%  incidence  higher  than 
placebo  in  the  two  longest  trials  were:    urinary  tract  infection,  nasopharyngitis,  urticaria, 
hypersensitivity,  headache,  dizziness,  vomiting,  nausea,  arthralgia,  pain  in  extremity,  rigors,  and 
pyrexia.  Of these, dizziness, nausea, urticaria, and rigors were infusion-related events. When looking 
at the development of adverse events over time (the short- and long-term dosing experience in CD, 6-
month dosing intervals in MS) there is a tendency for the AEs to peak with the first 3 infusions and 
then decrease over time. Headache, the most common adverse event, was seen at a similar incidence in 
both  placebo  and  verum  groups.  Adverse  events  more  common  in  natalizumab-treated  subjects 
included dizziness, pruritus, urticaria and hypersensitivity. 
Aside  from  hypersensitivity  reactions,  the  infusions  were  generally  well  tolerated.    In  the  phase  3 
trials,  infusion-related  events  were  conservatively  defined  and  solicited  from  patients  during  the  1-
hour infusion and the 1-hour post-infusion observation period.  Infusion-related reactions in the pooled 
MS and CD studies were 24 % in the verum group (compared to 18% in the placebo group), the most 
common being headache, which occurred in 5% of natalizumab-treated subjects and 3% of placebo-
treated subjects.  Acute hypersensitivity reactions occurred in approximately 4% of subjects receiving 
natalizumab  as  monotherapy,  whereas  approximately  2%  of  subjects  who  added  natalizumab  to 
Avonex experienced such reactions. These reactions, which were usually characterized by urticaria in 
isolation or with associated symptoms, were mostly mild to moderate and the majority were reported 
within the first 7 infusions, although they were most common during the second infusion. In the MS 
placebo-controlled  trials,  6  (0.4%)  natalizumab-treated  subjects  had  anaphylactic  or  anaphylactoid 
reactions compared to 2 (0.2%) placebo-treated subjects. Delayed hypersensitivity reactions were very 
rare; a clear relationship to antibody development could not be established.  
In the C-1801 and C-1802 studies about 6% of subjects became persistently positive for antibodies to 
natalizumab.  These  patients  show  an  incidence  of  important  adverse  events  higher  than  the  placebo 
groups.  Moreover,  in  the  C-1801  study  the  patients  testing  persistently  antibody  positive  were  less 
likely than the placebo group to remain relapse free and more likely to develop T2 hyperintense and 
gadolinium  enhancing  lesions  on  MRI.Patients  who  were  persistently  positive  for  anti-natalizumab 
antibodies showed a higher incidence of MS relapse which could reflect diminished effectiveness of 
natalizumab.  Correspondingly,  patients  persistently  positive  for  anti-natalizumab,  also  showed  a 
higher incidence of Crohn’s exacerbation in the CD studies. Data from chronic intermittent dosing CD 
©EMEA 2006 
24/32 
 
 
 
 
 
studies indicate that antibodies are more frequent with intermittent dosing compared with continuous 
dosing. 
•  Progressive multifocal leukencephalopathy (PML) 
Two cases of PML, one fatal, were reported by the Applicant in two patients with RRMS, both treated 
with a combination of natalizumab and beta-interferon (Avonex) for more than 2 years. A third case of 
PML was later discovered upon re-evaluation of the Crohn’s Disease safety database in a subject that 
was originally presumed to have died of a malignant astrocytoma. 
PML  is  a  frequently  fatal  re-infection  of  the  central  nervous  system  by  JC  virus,  a  polyoma  virus. 
Approximately  85%  of  the  healthy  population  carries  this  virus,  but  PML  is  very  rarely  described 
among healthy subjects. The causality of JC virus infection of the brain and PML is well studied in 
patients  with  HIV  infection  and  occurs  with  an  incidence  of  approximately  5  %  in  this  population. 
PML  is  an  AIDS  defining  disease.  Systemic  anti-JCV  titres  are  seen  in  almost  all  JCV  infected 
patients,  but  the  titres  do  not  correlate  with  risk  to  develop  PML  or  with  the  disease  progression, 
whereas the virus load in CSF correlates well with progression of PML. The immunity against JCV is 
performed by CD8+ T-Lymphocytes against JC virus. The route of primary infections with JCV is via 
the  tonsils,  appearing  before  the  age  of  6  years  in  most  cases.  After  primary  infection  the  JCV  can 
persist for an unknown time in a latent phase either in bone marrow or kidney or both. If reactivated 
JCV  can  be  detected  in  B  cells  from  which  it  possibly  infects  the  brain  parenchyma.  Once  this 
compartment is infected the JCV starts to replicate. The highest replication measured in vitro has been 
seen in astrocytes and glial cells. Factors, which trigger the reactivation of JCV from latent phase, are 
not  known.  Once  the  JCV  has  entered  the  brain  parenchyma  the  self-defence  with  cytotoxic  T- 
Lymphocytes is very effective in controlling the spread of the virus between the glial cells. 
Extensive  studies  of  patients  with  HIV  infection  suffering  from  PML  have  shown  that  symptoms  in 
the  initial  phase  are  similar  to  MS  symptoms,  e.g.  visual  symptoms,  motor  dysfunctions,  headache, 
epileptic seizures. The time from reactivation and infection of the glial cells to visible MRI lesions is 
not known. 
At present there are no accepted surrogate markers to describe the regulation or progression of JCV 
latency to reactivation causing PML. 
Special therapeutic options for active PML in MS patients are limited. At the first signs or symptoms 
for PML raised either from laboratory results or imaging, stopping the medication with natalizumab 
and  immediate  performing  of  plasmapheresis  in  order  to  eliminate  natalizumab  in  combination  with 
supportive intravenous immunoglobulin treatment is the therapy proposed as the first choice although 
there is no experience with this treatment so far.  
As natalizumab disrupts the transmigration of leucocytes across the endothelium into inflamed 
parenchymal tissue, the traffic across the blood-brain barrier of anti-JCV cytotoxic T- Lymphocytes 
might be inhibited. Obviously the interaction of α4-integrins with their receptors is a major 
contributor of extravasation of T cells into the CNS tissue for normal immunosurveillance. 
Disturbance by drugs like natalizumab, potentially enhanced by concomitant immunomodulators or 
immunosuppressant, may lead to reduced T cell surveillance of CNS in particular and therefore to 
uncontrolled reactivation of this virus (or potentially also other pathogens). 
•  Other infections including opportunistic infections 
Infections prevailed at a rate of 1.54 per person year in the natalizumab-treated group compared to 1.5 
in the placebo-treated patients. Few subjects experienced serious infections in either treatment group.  
Appendicitis and urinary tract infection NOS were the most common serious infections (0.4% 
natalizumab vs. 0.3% placebo for appendicitis; 0.4 vs. 0.2% for urinary tract infection NOS).  
Pneumonias, including bronchopneumonia, lobar pneumonia and atypical pneumonia, represent 6 
(0.4%) serious infections in the natalizumab-treated and 2 (0.2%) infections in the placebo-treated 
subjects.  All subjects responded to antibiotic therapy.  The absence of increased bacterial infections is 
consistent with the knowledge that neutrophils are not affected by α-4 integrin blockade; neutrophils 
©EMEA 2006 
25/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
primarily use the CD11b system for adhesion and trafficking to sites of inflammation rather than the 
α-4 integren system. One case of mycobacterial infection (patient was under steroid treatment) and one 
case of cryptosporidiosis occurred. In the placebo-controlled CD studies, a greater proportion of 
subjects receiving natalizumab experienced an infection compared to placebo (40.4% vs. 35.8%, 
respectively).  The rates of infections were also somewhat higher in natalizumab-treated CD subjects, 
1.66 per person per year, vs. 1.44 per person per year in the placebo group.  The incidence of serious 
infections was comparable in the two treatment groups, 2.5% and 2.6% (natalizumab vs. placebo, 
respectively).  The most frequently reported type of serious infection was an abscess within the 
gastrointestinal tract, e.g., perianal (0.6% vs. 0.6%), abdominal (0.3% vs. 0.2%) occurring in both 
treatment groups and abscess NOS, abscess intestinal, appendiceal, psoas, peritoneal, and rectal 
occurring in <0.1% to 0.4% in either treatment group. 
Herpetic viral infections occur commonly in the general population.  An analysis of herpes infections, 
both simplex and zoster, was conducted to assess a potential risk for these infections.  In the placebo-
controlled MS and CD studies, the incidence of herpes-like symptoms was slightly higher in 
natalizumab-treated subjects than placebo-treated subjects (natalizumab vs. placebo: 7.1% vs. 6.0% 
for MS and 1.6% vs. 1.0% for CD).  Four subjects receiving natalizumab experienced serious 
infections, with 3 subjects receiving intravenous acyclovir for varicella infection.   
Several uncommon presentations of infections known to occur in immunocompromised individuals 
were observed with natalizumab treatment, primarily in the CD clinical studies.  Cytomegalovirus 
(CMV) infection occurred in 2 subjects with CD.  One subject had asymptomatic elevation in liver 
function tests (LFTs) that resolved and the second subject had symptomatic involvement of the colon.  
Other infections in CD subjects include single cases of Mycobacterium avium intracellulare (MAI) 
pneumonia, pneumocystic carinii pneumonia (PCP), and bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.  All of these 
subjects had significant co-morbidities or use of immunosuppressant that could contribute to the risk 
for these infections.  A single case of cryptosporidiosis, which resolved following hospitalization for 
hydration, occurred in a subject with MS with no obvious source for infection.  Ongoing vigilance 
with natalizumab will provide a more complete understanding as to the risk of infections with 
prolonged exposures.  
Most of the infections reported in the post-marketing setting were consistent with typical community- 
acquired pneumonia.  There was one case of herpes encephalitis, which resulted in death, and one case 
of herpes meningitis with full recovery.  Both subjects had received only one dose of natalizumab.  
Herpes encephalitis is the most common cause of sporadic viral encephalitis in the USA and typically 
occurs in immune-competent individuals.  In the integrated natalizumab clinical trial safety database, 
there were no cases of encephalitis and there was no safety signal when evaluating CNS herpetic 
infections  
However, the herpes viral infections and possible risk for severe courses of encephalitis have to be 
considered in the post marketing surveillance and pharmacovigilance planning. In addition, it should 
be mentioned, that a suspected case of tuberculosis in a 20-year-old male with CD from New Zealand 
has to be considered as possibly related to Natalizumab.  
•  Malignancies 
For neoplasms, no distinct differences in the incidence rates emerge as yet from the provided data set. 
Only more data from future PSURs will be able to satisfactorily answer the question of a possible 
increase in tumour formation in natalizumab treated patients. The incidence of breast cancer and basal 
cell carcinoma seen in this study is within keeping of the rates commonly seen in the population at 
large. For melanoma there are insufficient data to clarify whether and how natalizumab affects its 
development. In the cases of lung carcinoma, the patients had a history of nicotine abuse. The cases of 
uterine cancer were balanced between verum and placebo groups. 
•  Laboratory findings 
The laboratory evaluation confirmed the pharmacodynamic effects of natalizumab on the leukocytes 
(except neutrophils), which increased in the peripheral blood. This effect seems to be reversible after 
©EMEA 2006 
26/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approximately 16 weeks after the last dose. Due to the increases in circulating white blood cells and 
given the preclinical findings of increased spleen size in practically all animals responding to the 
treatment, there is a lack of specific data on spleen examination in the clinical trials. Liver function 
tests for abnormalities did not reveal any distinct safety signals or trends. Transient elevations in liver 
enzymes or elevated liver enzyme elevations at screening were not accompanied by bilirubin 
elevations. Liver related SAEs in the natalizumab-treated subjects were attributable to other causes 
such as cholelithiasis or other medications (including Avonex). However, one patient in the phase I 
study in healthy volunteers did develop an unexplained hepatitis. The mild decrease in haemoglobin 
levels was not of clinical significance during the trials, and was readily reversible on natalizumab 
withdrawal. 
•  Safety in special populations 
No distinct gender differences in adverse events evolved. In general, there was not sufficient data on 
natalizumab in geriatric or juvenile patients to make precise evaluations on safety. Race did not seem 
to affect the pattern of adverse events. Also, there were no concomitant diseases that increased risk of 
more serious events such as hypersensitivity-like reactions, including a history of immunological 
disease.  Natalizumab was not studied adequately in subjects over age 65 and in subjects with renal 
and hepatic impairment.  The efficacy, safety, and appropriate dosing in these populations are not 
known. 
•  Post-marketing experience 
The marketing of the product on the US market, where it had been approved by fast track procedure 
on 23 November 2004, was voluntarily suspended following the reporting of PML cases (February 
2005). 
Between the  approval of Tysabri in the US  and the time of voluntary suspension of marketing, it is 
estimated that approximately 7000 subjects had been treated with Tysabri in the commercial setting, 
the majority of whom received only 1 or 2 doses.  Comparing clinical and commercial products, the 
safety  profile  of  Tysabri  observed  in  the  post-marketing  setting  is  generally  consistent  with  the 
adverse event profile observed in the clinical trial safety database and is consistent with the proposed 
Tysabri product labelling. Many of the adverse reactions were hypersensitivity-like in nature.  Reports 
of  allergic  reactions,  mainly  involving  a  rash  that  occurred  with  the  second  infusion,  are  consistent 
with adverse events seen in the integrated clinical trial safety database. No confirmed cases of PML 
have been identified in the post-marketing setting. 
1.5  Pharmacovigilance 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the Applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
The  applicant  has  designed  a  pharmacovigilance  plan,  including  risk  mitigation  activities,  using  a 
number of different approaches to further clarify and characterize unresolved safety issues, and at the 
same time allow ongoing safe use of the drug and monitoring of the emerging safety profile with use 
of natalizumab in the market.  A clear structure of its pharmacovigilance systems has been provided 
with  a  number  of  proactive  commitments  regarding  the  collection,  assessment  and  further 
investigation of adverse events arising from patients treated with natalizumab. The safety specification 
and the summary of the identified risks that require further evaluation are appropriately discussed with 
regard  to  PML.  The  relevant  epidemiology  facts  of  MS  are  addressed  in  the  Plan  with  valid 
information concerning complications arising in the course of disease including PML.  
©EMEA 2006 
27/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The  commitments  for  the  planned  post-marketing  safety  investigations  and  studies  are  based  on  the 
three important safety issues (Infusion/ hypersensitivity reactions, the antibody formation and PML). 
The applicant has tried to cover these commitments with a wide range of studies and clinical trials as 
well as preclinical studies.  
The main purpose of the “Pharmacovigilance Plan” is to define the safety specification and summarise 
the identified and potential risks of the product including a sophisticated diagnostic pathway of PML 
assessment. Concerning risk minimization, the applicant proposed the establishment of a surveillance 
programme in the US concerning PML and an observational study in app. 5000 patients to determine 
the  nature  and  incidence  of  infections  that  require  hospitalisation  or  medically  significant  adverse 
events  which  may occur  in  a  frequency  of   ≥1:  1500  (with   a  95  %  probability).  The description  of 
both, the surveillance programme and the observational study is fairly vague with regard to the routine 
follow-up in the usual standard of care, which may be significantly different in the countries the study 
will be conducted and concerning the proper case definition. The risk of opportunistic infections (e.g. 
mycobacterium Tuberculosis/ Avium, cryptosporidium, Herpes virus group, fungal infection) has been 
included  on  request  by  the  CHMP,  as  has  been  the  potential  concern  of  malignancies  occurring  in 
long-term treatment due to reduced lymphocyte surveillance. 
Summary of Activities in the EU - Risk Management Plan 
Safety Concern  
Known Risks 
1. 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions 
2. Antibody 
formation 
3.PML 
4.  Opportunistic 
Infections 
Potential Risks 
5.  Malignancy 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation  
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Incidence and nature from: 
o  Re-dosing study 
o  Clinical trials 
o  TOUCH Surveillance Programme 
o  TYGRIS Observational Cohort 
Study 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Re-dosing study 
Have antibody assay for use in the 
marketplace available by time of launch. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Follow-up of spontaneous events with 
specific questionnaire. 
Pre-clinical/Clinical pharmacology studies 
to investigate effects on immune system. 
Incidence rate and risk factors for 
development of PML from:  
o  Re-dosing protocol 
o  Clinical trials 
o  TOUCH Surveillance Programme 
o  TYGRIS Observational Cohort 
Study 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Follow-up of all spontaneous events with 
specific questionnaire to characterize 
infecting pathogen. 
Incidence rate from:  
o  Re-dosing protocol 
o  Clinical trials 
o  TOUCH Surveillance 
Programme 
o  TYGRIS Observational 
Cohort Study 
Recommendation for management of 
hypersensitivity in section 4.2 of the SPC. 
Contraindication in section 4.3 of the SPC. 
Warning in Section 4.4 of SPC.  
Listed as ADR in Section 4.8 of SPC. 
Recommendation that therapy be carefully 
reconsidered in patients showing no 
evidence of therapeutic benefit beyond 6-
months in section 4.2 of the SPC. 
Warning in Section 4.4 of SPC. 
Listed as ADR in Section 4.8 of SPC. 
Contraindication for use in patients with 
PML in section 4.3 of the SPC. 
Warning in Section 4.4 of SPC. 
Listed as ADR in Section 4.8 of SPC. 
Educational materials including physician 
Prescribing Guidelines and Patient Alert 
Card. 
Diagnostic algorithms for PML. 
Contraindication in patients with increased 
risk of opportunistic infections in section 4.3 
of the SPC. 
Warning in Section 4.4 of SPC. 
Listed as ADR in Section 4.8 of SPC. 
Educational materials including physician 
prescribing guidelines and patient alert card. 
All reported serious opportunistic infections 
will be expedited 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Incidence rate from following studies with 
Contraindication in patients with known 
active malignancies (except for patients with 
©EMEA 2006 
28/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern  
Proposed Pharmacovigilance activities 
comparison to background rates from 
National and International databases: 
Proposed Risk Minimisation  
cutaneous basal cell carcinoma) in section 
4.3 of the SPC. 
o  Re-dosing protocol 
o  Clinical trials 
o  TYGRIS Observational 
Cohort Study 
6.  Re-activation 
of Tuberculosis 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Clinical pharmacology studies to investigate 
effects on immune system 
Specifically designed clinical trials to 
investigate effect on immunisation response. 
7.  Immunisation 
Response 
8.  Cardiac profile  Routine Pharmacovigilance. 
Incidence rate from: 
o  Re-dosing protocol 
o  Clinical trials 
o  TYGRIS Observational 
Cohort Study 
Unknown Information 
9.  Pregnancy and 
Pregnancy 
Outcome 
10. Special 
Populations 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Pregnancies from clinical trials, registries 
and spontaneous events followed to 
outcome. 
Pregnancy registry of 300 patients. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Recommendations for discontinuation of 
Tysabri with occurrence of pregnancy as 
listed in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
Information on use of drugs in elderly, and 
patients with renal and hepatic impairment 
in section 4.2 of SmPC 
Information on posology in children and 
adolescents in section 4.2 of SmPC 
Contraindication for children and 
adolescents in section 4.3 of SmPC 
1.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
been  presented  to  give  reassurance  on  viral/TSE  safety.  Minor  unresolved  quality  issues  having  no 
impact  on  the  Risk-benefit  balance  of  the  product  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments undertaken by the Company within an agreed timeframe. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Natalizumab is a selective adhesion-molecule inhibitor and binds to the α4-subunit of human integrins, 
which is highly expressed on the surface of all leukocytes, with the exception of neutrophils.  A 
further mechanism of action of natalizumab may be to suppress ongoing inflammatory reactions in 
diseased tissues by inhibiting the interaction of α4-expressing leukocytes with their ligands in the 
extracellular matrix and on parenchymal cells. 
Preclinical data revealed no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. There are no studies on the carcinogenic 
potential of natalizumab. However, as regards reproductive potential adverse effects, pre-clinical 
reproductive studies of natalizumab suggest the possibility of an increase in abortion rate. The effect is 
consistent with the known role of α4-integrins in fertilization and implantation. An appropriate 
warning has been added to the SPC, discouraging the use of Tysabri during pregnancy. 
Natalizumab is immunogenic in almost all animals within 2-4 weeks depending on the administered 
dose of natalizumab. 
©EMEA 2006 
29/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
Efficacy has convincingly been demonstrated at the pre-specified 2-year clinical endpoints, including 
the clinically highly relevant impact on disability progression, which is the major goal of treatment of 
RRMS. Treatment with 300 mg natalizumab every 4 weeks resulted in a highly statistically significant 
42% decrease in the risk of disability progression, as measured by sustained changes on EDSS, when 
compared to placebo over a 2-year period, and a 68% decrease in the annualized relapse rate versus 
placebo over both 1 and 2 years. Through year 2, there was a highly statistically significant 83% 
reduction in the number of new or newly enlarging T2-hyperintense lesions in natalizumab-treated 
subjects compared to placebo. 96% of subjects in the natalizumab group were free of Gd-enhancing 
lesions after 1 year of treatment, and 97% after 2 years. 
Safety 
Reduced lymphocyte surveillance as induced by alpha4-integrin antagonism by natalizumab might 
have been causative to the occurrence of 2 cases of progressive multifocal leukencephalopathy in 
patients with MS, and a further case in a patient with Crohn’s disease. Two of the cases (one in the 
MS trials and the CD patient) were fatal. The current safety database does not yet allow for a clear 
estimation of the risk of serious and/or fatal adverse events, like PML or other serious infections. 
Since MS is a disease of a typically young patient population with usually no reduced lifespan, and 
since there are therapeutic alternatives with an established safety profile, Tysabri should be clearly 
restricted to patients that are really in need of such a therapy.  Expert view, also from Patient 
Representatives, agreed to this principle. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP agreed that the 
proposed activities described in section 2.5 adequately address these.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
In clinical practice, there is a patient population that has a clear unmet need for an active treatment due 
to  sustained  severe  disease  activity,  defined  by  a  high  load  of  active  lesions  and  frequent  relapses. 
These  patients  are  very  likely  to  progress  to  sustained  disability  with  all  related  complications  and 
therefore  eventually  a  reduced  life  expectancy.  If  these  patients  show  inadequate  response  to  (or 
contraindications  for)  beta-interferons  or  glatiramer  acetate,  the  gap  to  the  next  step  of  escalation 
therapy  is  rather  large:  Ignoring  intravenous  immunoglobulins,  which  are  not  licensed  in  this 
indication, patients can only be offered mitoxanthrone, immunosuppressive chemotherapy or stem cell 
transplantation. These therapies have a known high risk for severe and potentially fatal adverse events 
(cardiotoxicity,  leukaemia  and  other  malignancies,  serious  systemic  infections  etc.).  Leaving  the 
patients untreated would render patients progressing to wheelchair rapidly. For these patients, Tysabri 
is considered to be a viable treatment option. 
Indications 
Two different patient populations for whom a particularly high unmet medical need exists: 
(1) Patients who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course of a beta-interferon. Patients 
should have had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and have at least 9 
T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial MRI or at least 1 Gadolinium-enhancing lesion. 
For  this patient  population  relevant data could be derived from  study C-1802. Patients had to be on 
Avonex treatment for at least one year (which can be considered a “full and adequate course”) and to 
show active disease despite this active treatment with a beta-interferon. Unfortunately, there is no data 
on the efficacy of natalizumab monotherapy in these patients due to the design of the trial (add-on). 
However,  the  overall  efficacy  data  suggest  that  efficacy  in  C-1802  is  mainly  driven  by  natalizumab 
and  not  by  Avonex,  since  Avonex  by  definition  was  not  sufficiently  active.  Therefore,  the  efficacy 
database is considered sufficient to support efficacy in patients being treated in case of failure of beta-
interferon. The other potential alternatives in the indication wording (e.g. failure of glatiramer acetate) 
for  the  SPC  are  not  represented  in  this  C-1802  population,  however,  are  relevant  from  a  clinical 
perspective, and it can be assumed that natalizumab will be efficacious. 
©EMEA 2006 
30/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  is  considered  that  a  requirement  for  the  use  of  (nearly)  all  of  the  available  treatments  for  the 
treatment of  RRMS before Tysabri can be given would be problematic, since all available therapies 
only show modest activity, and a considerable time span for adequate treatment would be lost. During 
that  time,  patients  as  defined  above  might  considerably  progress,  which  is  currently  an  irreversible 
process.  
(2) Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis, defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI or a 
significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
In  addition  to  the  data  from  the  ITT  population,  a  post-hoc  analysis  of  data  from  a  sub-group  of 
patients with rapidly evolving MS and naïve to treatment were submitted by the sponsor.    
Table:  AFFIRM Major Efficacy Endpoints (Patients with ≥ 2 relapses and ≥ 1 Gd-enhancing  lesion) 
(All 2-year results were evaluated at 24 months, except disability, which was assessed at 25 months.) 
TYSABRI 
(n=148) 
Placebo 
(n=61) 
p-value 
Disability endpoint 
Sustained progression of disability (increase in 
EDSS sustained for 12 weeks) 
Hazard ratio 0.47 
(95% CI  0.24, 0.93) 
p= 0.029 
Reduction in risk 
53% 
Sustained progression of disability (increase in 
EDSS sustained for 24 weeks) 
Hazard ratio 0.36 
(95% CI 0.17, 0.76) 
p= 0.008 
64% 
Relapse endpoints 
Annualised relapse rate 
Percentage of patients relapse-free 
Annualised rate of relapses requiring steroids 
Percentage of patients requiring steroid treatment 
for relapse 
Annualised rate of MS-related hospitalisations 
MRI end points 
Median % change in T2-hyperintense lesion 
volume  
Mean number of new or newly- 
enlarging T2-hyperintense lesions 
Mean number of T1-hypointense lesions 
Mean number of Gd-enhancing lesions 
Percent reduction 
compared with 
placebo 
81% 
- 
80% 
66% 
1.455  
23% 
0.765 
59% 
p< 0.001 
p< 0.001 
p< 0.001 
0.137 
p< 0.001 
89% 
0.282 
68% 
0.154 
20% 
0.015 
-16.6% 
+10.8% 
p< 0.001 
- 
4.2 
2.2 
0.5 
19.1 
p< 0.001 
78% 
7.0 
3.2 
P< 0.001 
p< 0.001 
69% 
84% 
In a sub-group of patients with 2 or more relapses and 1 or more Gd+ lesion natalizumab resulted in a 
81% decrease in the annualized relapse rate (ARR) versus placebo over 2 years, and a  64% decrease 
in the risk of disability progression.  ARR was 0.282 in the natalizumab treated group (n= 148) and 
1.455 in the placebo group (n= 61) (p <0.001).  Hazard ratio for disability progression was 0.36 (95% 
CI : 0.17, 0.76) p=0.008.  These data confirmed the treatment effect of natalizumab in this group of 
patients and the effect size supports the additional indication for treatment of patients with rapidly 
evolving relapsing remitting MS.   
This subgroup analysis should be treated with caution since no documentation on the severity of 
relapses, neither by their clinical course (leaving a neurological deficit) nor by their duration, was 
collected through the entry criteria of the pivotal trials.   However, given the demonstrated efficacy of 
natalizumab, one can assume that natalizumab will be efficacious. From a clinical perspective, Tysabri 
might indeed be used in a post marketing setting in these patients as an alternative for example to 
high-dose beta-interferon in order not to lose time and prevent accumulation of disability.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that additional risk minimisation activities were required: 
©EMEA 2006 
31/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active safety measures for risk minimization 
A  number  of  significant  measures  were  agreed  for  implementation  to  minimize  the  risks  associated 
with Tysabri treatment as regards opportunistic infections including PML, which are the major known 
safety issues. These measures relate to the following principles: 
- 
clear-cut  definition  of  the  target  population,  i.e.  restricted  use  only  for  patients  with  highly 
active disease without reasonable alternatives 
-  Requirement for established MS 
-  Escape rule for non-responders to avoid unnecessary exposure 
-  Administration only in specialized centers by experienced physicians 
-  Clear contraindications including a contraindication for combination with other 
immunomodulators 
-  Patient alert card 
-  Educational program for physicians  
One of the mainstays of this programme is the information provided in the SPC, patient alert card and 
patient  information  leaflet.  The  SPC  and  patient  information  leaflet  should  adequately  inform 
physicians and patients on the risks of Tysabri treatment and of the measures to be undertaken in case 
treatment  with  the  drug  is  jointly  decided  (by  physician  and  patient).  Close  monitoring  of  patients 
treated with Tysabri would be of major importance in case of a marketing authorization, since the first 
signs  and  symptoms  of  PML  are  often  similar  to  an  MS  relapse.  An  algorithm  has  been  developed, 
focussing on suggestive clinical signs and symptoms as primary detector, followed by confirmation by 
MRI and JC virus detection by PCR in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Tysabri indicated as single disease modifying therapy in 
highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis for the following patient groups: 
•  Patients with high disease activity despite treatment with a beta-interferon (SPC: see 5.1); 
or 
•  Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (SPC: see 5.1). 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2006 
32/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
