11 February 2016 
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report 
Procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Invented name: Tysabri 
INN: natalizumab 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-20/1416/C/000603/0083 
Note   
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
Table of contents ......................................................................................... 2 
1. Information on the procedure ................................................................. 3 
1.1. Referral of the matter to the PRAC ......................................................................... 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. Diagnosis of PML before the development of clinical symptoms .................................. 6 
2.3. Anti JCV antibodies ............................................................................................. 12 
2.4. PML development after discontinuation of natalizumab ............................................ 21 
2.5. PML risk estimation ............................................................................................ 24 
2.6. Biomarkers for PML development ......................................................................... 24 
3. Expert consultation ............................................................................... 25 
4. Other data ............................................................................................. 26 
5. Overall conclusions................................................................................ 26 
6. Risk management .................................................................................. 29 
6.1. Pharmacovigilance activity ................................................................................... 29 
6.2. Risk minimisation activities .................................................................................. 29 
6.2.1. Amendments to the product information ............................................................. 29 
6.2.2. Direct Healthcare Professional Communications/Communication plan ..................... 29 
6.2.3. Educational materials ....................................................................................... 29 
7. Grounds for Recommendation ............................................................... 30 
8. EPAR changes ........................................................................................ 31 
8.1. Scope ............................................................................................................... 31 
8.2. Summary .......................................................................................................... 31 
References ................................................................................................ 32 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 2/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Information on the procedure 
1.1.  Referral of the matter to the PRAC 
Scientific evidence on progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients treated with 
Tysabri is rapidly growing. New information has become available on three key issues: risk estimates; 
the diagnosis of PML before the development of clinical symptoms; and anti-JC virus antibodies. There 
is a need to consider whether regulatory action is necessary in light of the new elements. 
In view of the above, on 29 April 2015 the European Commission triggered a procedure under Article 
20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, and asked the Agency to assess the above elements and their 
potential impact on the benefit-risk balance of Tysabri. The EC requested the Agency to give its opinion 
on whether a regulatory action with regard to the marketing authorisation for this product is 
necessary.  
As the request results from the evaluation of data resulting from pharmacovigilance activities, the 
opinion should be adopted by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) on the 
basis of a recommendation from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). 
2.  Scientific discussion  
2.1.  Introduction 
Natalizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody targeting the α-chain of the α4β1 adhesion molecule. 
Tysabri (natalizumab) was approved in the EU on 27 June 2006 and is currently indicated as single 
disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) for the following 
patient groups: 
•  Adult patients aged 18 years and over with high disease activity despite treatment with a beta-
interferon or glatiramer acetate. 
These patients may be defined as those who have failed to respond to a full and adequate 
course (normally at least one year of treatment) of beta-interferon or glatiramer acetate. 
Patients should have had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and have at 
least 9 T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial Magnetic Resonance Image (MRI) or at least 1 
Gadolinium-enhancing lesion. A “non-responder” could also be defined as a patient with an 
unchanged or increased relapse rate or ongoing severe relapses, as compared to the previous 
year. 
or 
•  Adult patients aged 18 years and over with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis defined by 2 or more disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium 
enhancing lesions on brain MRI or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a 
previous recent MRI. 
Natalizumab is associated with the onset of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), which is 
caused by John Cunningham Virus (JCV). The onset of PML in MS has serious prognostic implications, 
as it leads to death in about 20% of patients or to serious disability in 40% of survivors (Sørensen PS 
et al, 2012). The clinical presentation of natalizumab-associated PML is considered not distinct from 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 3/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
classical PML, and consists in cognitive disorders in more than half of the patients together with motor 
symptoms, ataxia, neurovisual disturbances, and dysphasia or agnosia in more than 40% of cases 
(Brew BJ et al, 2010, Berger JR et al, 2013).  
Pathomechanism 
The high prevalence of asymptomatic JC polyomavirus (JCV) infection (50 %- 90 %) in the general 
population indicates coexistence with the human host and efficient immune control in healthy 
individuals. For unknown reasons, kidney-resident archetypic JCV strains can turn into neurotropic JCV 
strains which in immunodeficient patients can cause opportunistic infection and cytolytic destruction of 
glial cells or granule cell neurons resulting in progressive multifocal demyelination in the central 
nervous system (CNS) or cerebellar atrophy, respectively. Symptomatic JCV infection of the CNS is 
assumed to be associated with disturbances of adaptive immunity affecting B cells, antibodies, and 
CD4+ and/or CD8+ T cells.  
Two general mechanisms have been suggested to explain the association between natalizumab 
treatment and PML. The first is that blocking alpha-4 integrin decreases lymphocyte trafficking, and the 
subsequent reduction in immune surveillance allows for the activation of a latent infection in the brain. 
However, it is assumed that the natalizumab action is not simply caused by the inhibition of the 
passage of activated T-lymphocytes through the blood brain barrier (BBB). Indeed, the impact on 
immune functions of natalizumab is apparently broader and includes interactions various players of the 
innate and adaptive immune system such as antigen presenting cells (APC) and natural killer (NK) 
cells. The second suggested mechanism is associated with the finding that deletion of alpha 4 integrin 
is associated with increased numbers of B cells and immature CD34+progenitor cells released from the 
bone marrow. Both of these cell populations may be reservoirs of latent JC virus (Warnke C et al, 
2011, Frohman EM et al, 2014, Monaco MC et al, 1996, Chalkias S et al, 2014).  
Diagnosis 
According to the current case definitions, a possible PML case the definite diagnosis of PML requires 
clinical symptoms and either the detection of JCV DNA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) amplification or a brain biopsy to detect JCV DNA on histological examination and/or 
characteristic MRI findings (Berger JR et al, 2013, Mentzer D et al., 2012)  
On MRI, PML lesions of symptomatic cases are generally large (more than 3 cm) and can affect 
supratentorial and infratentorial white matter. These lesions are usually hyperintense on T2 and FLAIR 
(fluid-attenuated inversion recovery) MRI sequences and hypointense on T1 sequences. Diffusion 
weighted imaging (DWI) can help in the diagnosis of PML in natalizumab-treated patients to 
differentiate active PML lesions from MS plaques. In contrast with non-natalizumab-PML lesions, 
natalizumab-associated PML lesions frequently show gadolinium enhancement (43% of cases) (Brew BJ 
et al, 2010).  
Despite improved sensitivity of the newest quantitative PCR techniques for JCV detection in the CSF 
(Iacobaeus E et al, 2009), the result is sometimes negative, especially in early stages of the disease, 
justifying repeated CSF analysis and the use of ultra-sensitive methods that enable the detection of a 
very small number of copies with a detection limit up to 10 copies JCV DNA/ml (Brew BJ et al, 2010).  
Therapy 
To date, no specific therapy to overcome PML is available, although several therapeutic options are 
currently investigated. The only way to eliminate the virus from the CNS is to reconstitute global 
immune function. Therefore it is of inherent importance to diagnose PML as early as possible and to 
stop treatment immediately.   
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 4/34 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to the long half-life of natalizumab, the majority of PML patients underwent either plasma 
exchange (PLEX) or immunoadsorption (IA) in order to remove natalizumab from the plasma and 
accelerate immune surveillance. In most cases, within days to weeks but generally about four to six 
weeks following PLEX or IA, there was evidence of the development of Immune Reconstitution 
Inflammatory Syndrome (IRIS) associated with worsening neurologic deficits which have been 
sometimes rapid, severe and at times fatal. As IRIS can be life-threatening it is important to monitor 
patients for development of symptoms and institute appropriate treatment. Treatment of IRIS with 
steroids was undertaken in most cases, usually consisting of high dose intravenous therapy often 
followed by an oral tapering regime. However, the optimal steroid regimen for treatment of IRIS is 
controversial and dose and duration of steroid treatment used after development of IRIS have varied. 
Some evidence suggests that high dose intravenous steroids with oral taper over relatively prolonged 
periods and sometimes repeated may be required to adequately control the inflammation of IRIS.  
Risk Factors for PML 
Since the authorisation of natalizumab, three main risk factors for PML have been identified:  
• 
• 
• 
the presence of JCV-specific antibodies,  
the increasing duration of treatment (treated > 24 months),  
a history of immunosuppressive therapy.  
Patients who have all three risk factors for PML have a significantly higher risk of PML. Therefore a 
number of risk minimisation measures in relation to PML are in place for Tysabri. 
However, these risk factors do not allow for a reliable individual prediction of PML. For example 50-60 
% of the MS population is anti-JCV antibody positive (Lee P et al, 2013), but only as small proportion 
develops PML.  
The absolute prerequisite for PML development is previous contact with JCV. Hence, a two-step 
serological assay consisting of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed and is 
available for testing patients.  
Whereas a number of risk minimisation measures are in place for Tysabri, scientific evidence on PML 
rapidly growing and new elements have com e to light in relation to three key issues: risk estimates; 
the diagnosis of PML before the development of clinical symptoms; and anti-JCV antibodies. 
1) Risk estimates 
Decisions on initiation and continuation of treatment by physicians and patients are currently based on 
an algorithm included in the educational material, and in which the estimated PML incidences are 
calculated in a static way and by pooling data from all sources (clinical studies, registries, spontaneous 
reports). The interim data from the STRATIFY 2 study for patients with positive anti-JVC antibody 
status with and without a history of immunosuppressive treatment seems to indicate a higher risk of 
PML based on Kaplan Meier curves than currently described in the algorithm. It is therefore appropriate 
to review the calculations to ensure that accurate risk estimates are available for treatment decisions. 
2) Diagnosis of PML before the development of clinical symptoms 
Currently, approximately 11 % of PML patients were clinically asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis. 
Asymptomatic PML patients are associated with unilobar lesions reflecting a more localised disease. 
The data also seems to indicate that asymptomatic PML cases have a higher survival rate compared 
with symptomatic cases.  
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 5/34 
 
 
 
 
 
Current recommendations are for a MRI to be performed within 3 months before treatment initiation, 
and annually thereafter. Recent literature suggests that more frequent MRI testing may contribute to 
increase the proportion of cases detected in the asymptomatic stage.  
3) Anti-JCV antibodies 
Initial interpretations of the serological anti-JCV antibody test suggested that a negative status could 
be used to reassure patients that the probability of developing PML is very low (approximately 
1/10000). However longitudinal serological follow-up from the combined AFFIRM and STRATIFY-1 
studies showed that nearly 13% of patients who were anti-JCV antibody negative at baseline could 
become positive during follow-up. Therefore, negative JCV serology at treatment initiation is not 
sufficient for long-term reassurance. The current recommendation in the product information is to 
retest these patients every 6 months for antibodies. Since this recommendation was put in place, a 
more sensitive second generation ELISA assay has been developed, and there is a need to assess 
whether this impacts on current recommendations for antibody testing.  
In addition, in the literature it is suggested that an anti-JCV antibody index >1.5 may be interpreted as 
a risk factor for PML, therefore, it may be necessary to review the surveillance strategy when therapy 
is pursued. 
2.2.  Diagnosis of PML before the development of clinical symptoms 
Overview 
As of May 2015, 142,958 patients had received natalizumab worldwide with 432,814 patient-years of 
exposure. A total of 566 PML cases have been reported globally (clinical studies, registries and 
spontaneous reports) as of 04 June 2015, of which 133 patients died (23.5 % 0f PML patients). 
Patients who survive often have serious morbidity associated with serious and permanent disability.    
Out of the 566 cases, 62 cases (10.9%) had abnormal brain MRI findings consistent with, and 
subsequently attributed to PML. Asymptomatic (sometimes also called pre-symptomatic) PML is 
defined as the absence of recognisable new symptoms attributable to PML at the time of PML diagnosis 
with PML lesion visible on MRI.  
The majority of asymptomatic cases (n= 52/62) were reported from EU/Rest of the World (ROW), 
while 10 were from the US (table 1). The proportion of asymptomatic PML case reports has increased 
over years in particular in the EU/ROW, where approximately 20 % of PML cases since 2013 were 
asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis. While the apparent discrepancy between the EU/ROW and the 
US might in part be related to the higher incidence of PML overall in EU/ROW, a possible contributing 
factor might be the more frequent acquisition of MRIs in EU/ROW compared to the US. The SmPC for 
natalizumab recommends annual MRIs, but it is noted that some EU/ROW countries and EU hospitals 
have instituted more frequent MRI protocols (Alroughani RA, 2014, Fernández O; 2015; McGuigan C 
2016, Wattjes MP 2015).  
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 6/34 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Number of asymptomatic and symptomatic (confirmed) cases reported per year 2008-2015 
according to the case definition of the MAH 
Upon suspicion of PML, natalizumab was discontinued in all 62 PML cases classified as asymptomatic. 
Follow-up data was available for 77.4% (48/62) of the cases, with a median of 11.8 months (mean: 
12.4 months, range 1 – 33.6). At the time of this analysis, 63% (39/62) of PML patients with 
asymptomatic onset had at least 6 months of follow-up data available. The majority (70.8%; 34/48) 
remained free from clinical symptoms, while 29.1% (14/48) became symptomatic subsequent to PML 
onset. Among this latter group, the median time from first suspect MRI to the onset of symptoms was 
17 days (mean: 32.2 days, range: 1- 151). IRIS (Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome) 
was reported in 83.9% (52/62) of the cases. At the time of last follow-up, 95% (59/62) of patients 
were alive and three had a fatal outcome. 
All available MRI images and MRI reports for confirmed PML cases were reviewed, and the PML lesions 
were classified as follows: 1) unilobar - confined to 1 lobe; 2) multilobar - involving 2 or more 
contiguous lobes; 3) widespread - involving 2 or more non-contiguous lobes and/or present in both 
hemispheres. 
Both cohorts of patients had similar baseline MS disease characteristics (table 2), but pre-PML EDSS 
was higher for the symptomatic group. Time from suspicion of PML (either by reported symptom onset 
or by date of suspect MRI) to PML diagnosis date was shorter in the asymptomatic PML patients. 
Another difference between asymptomatic and symptomatic PML patients is the extent of PML on brain 
MRI, with asymptomatic patients having a higher proportion of localized (unilobar) PML and a lower 
proportion of widespread PML (p-value: 0.0005). Finally, the survival rate was higher in asymptomatic 
patients than in patients who were symptomatic at diagnosis (p-value: <0.0001). 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 7/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Table 2 Demographic and clinical characteristics of asymptomatic and symptomatic onset PML patients 
stratified by geographic region 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 8/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disability outcomes of asymptomatic and symptomatic PML patients 
Treating physicians for all confirmed PML patients were queried via a standardized PML Data Collection 
Tool (DCT) to provide assessments of the PML patient’s disability status (as measured by both EDSS 
and KPS) prior to PML diagnosis, at the time of diagnosis, and every 6 months for up to 24 months 
post PML diagnosis. Functional disability scores were not reported at every requested time point for all 
PML patients. EDSS scores were available for 80% (457/566) of confirmed PML patients overall, with 
67% of patients having available EDSS reported at the time of PML diagnosis and 49% reported at 6 
months post PML diagnosis. KPS scores were available for 78% (444/566) of confirmed PML patients 
overall, with 49% of patients having available KPS scores reported at the time of PML diagnosis and 
49% at 6 months post diagnosis. At 12 months post PML diagnosis, 37% and 38% of confirmed PML 
patients had available assessments of disability status as measured by EDSS and KPS, respectively. In 
general, asymptomatic PML patients had less functional disability after PML diagnosis when compared 
with symptomatic PML patients, as reflected by lower EDSS scores and higher KPS scores at all time 
points after PML diagnosis (Figures 1 and 2). However, disability in terms of pre-PML EDSS and KPS 
was slightly numerically higher for the symptomatic group.  
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 9/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 EDSS and Figure 2 KPS scores for symptomatic and asymptomatic PML patients measured over 
time. The EDSS and KPS scores for symptomatic and asymptomatic PML patients are shown for time 
points prior to PML diagnosis, at PML diagnosis, and post-PML diagnosis. Each symbol represents a 
single patient measurement at a single time point. EDSS and KPS scores were not available for all 
patients at all time points. Data prior to diagnosis were gathered from medical records. The red lines 
represent the mean evolution of EDSS and KPS scores over time for the asymptomatic PML patient 
population, while the blue line represents the mean evolution of EDSS and KPS scores over time for 
symptomatic PML patient population. 
Frequency of MRI testing of asymptomatic and symptomatic PML cases 
Current recommendations for MRI testing in the EU for MS patients receiving natalizumab are outlined 
in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and EU Educational material (Physician Information 
and Management Guidelines for Multiple Sclerosis patients on TYSABRI Therapy Version 14, dated 22 
May 2015) and specify that a pre-treatment cranial MRI scan should be performed as a reference 
within 3 months before starting natalizumab and should be repeated on a yearly basis to update this 
reference. Natalizumab-treated patients should have regular clinical follow-up to allow for early 
detection of changes in neurological status, and if any new neurological symptoms develop, a brain 
MRI scan is recommended; PML should always be considered as part of the differential diagnosis.  
MRI frequency in symptomatic PML cases is not available for analysis, and consequently a comparison 
cannot be made with MRI frequencies in PML cases having asymptomatic onset. Nonetheless, treating 
physicians for the 62 cases of asymptomatic onset PML were queried for MRI testing frequency and the 
rationale for MRI testing. In the majority of cases (92%; 57/62), the MRI that prompted PML suspicion 
was reported to be part of a “routine assessment”. The frequency and/or rationale for these MRIs (e.g. 
MS standard of care or PML monitoring or other reason) were not specified in many cases. There were 
five cases (8%; 5/62) for which the reason for the MRI was not reported to be a routine assessment. 
In one case, the MRI was performed as part of a work up for headaches (reported as unrelated to PML) 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 10/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and in the other four cases, the patients had discontinued natalizumab and underwent an MRI prior to 
starting another disease modifying therapy. 
Brain MRI frequency was available in only 24 out of the 62 PML cases classified as having 
asymptomatic onset. MRI frequency was reported as every 12 months in 2 patients (consistent with 
the recommendation in the SmPC); every 6 months in 10 patients; every 4 months in 5 patients; and 
every 3 months in 7 patients. Thus, of the 62 PML cases classified as having asymptomatic onset, 22 
PML cases were known to have undergone MRIs more frequently than the annual MRI recommendation 
in the SmPC, and the reported MRI testing frequencies varied between every 3-6 months; the 
percentage of symptomatic onset PML cases who have undergone MRIs more frequently than annually 
is unknown. The duration of the reported MRI testing frequency was not provided for the 24 
asymptomatic onset patients. The rationale for the MRI testing frequency was reported as “routine” 
with no further specifications in 17 cases and as part of clinical trial study protocol in 1 case; while in 6 
cases the rationale was reported to be “due to the presence of PML risk factors”. Of the 6 cases where 
MRI testing frequency was “due to the presence of PML risk factors”, one patient was receiving a 4-
month MRI testing frequency, 2 patients were receiving a 3-month MRI testing frequency, and 3 
patients were receiving a 6-month MRI testing frequency. 
Evaluation of the time interval between the last brain MRI scan without 
signs of PML and the onset of PML symptoms and clinical outcome in 
symptomatic PML patients 
As of 04 June 2015, there were 504 symptomatic PML patients, and of those, brain MRI reports or 
images pre-dating the onset of PML were available for a total of 251 (50%). Only cases where the 
report included the radiologist’s description of the MRI and/or impression were included in this 
analysis. Of the 251 cases, 232 (92%) were considered to have met this criterion and were included in 
the analysis. The survival rate in these symptomatic PML patients was 75% (174/232). There were 58 
fatal PML reports with median time from PML diagnosis to fatal outcome of 77 days (mean: 149, 
range: 1- 1067). To evaluate the time interval between the last MRI scan reported as being without 
evidence of PML and the onset of PML in symptomatic PML patients, time intervals for MRI testing in 
relation to PML onset were categorised as follows: 1 to 3 months, > 3 to 6 months, > 6 to 9 months, > 
9 to 12 months, and > 12 months. Thirty eight percent of patients (89/232) had an MRI reported as 
being without evidence of PML between 1 to 3 months prior to PML onset; 25.4% (59/232) between 3 
to 6 months; 12.9 % (30/232) between 6 to 9 months; 11.6% (27/232) between 9 -12 months and 
11.6% (27/232) more than 12 months.  
The patients within the five time interval cohorts between MRI and PML onset were very similar in 
terms of PML extent on MRI at the time of PML onset and clinical outcome, and no trends or patterns 
were identified. The data in this sub-analysis have many limitations inherent to the fact that these are 
spontaneously reported cases. There is incomplete information on MRI dates and MRI reports/ 
interpretations on these cases. It is also possible that patients may have had additional MRIs 
performed prior to the onset of symptoms which were not reported and therefore would have 
influenced which time interval the patient was placed in for the analysis. Therefore, an MRI monitoring 
frequency should not be assumed in these cases based on the reported time interval between MRI and 
PML onset. Lastly, the reason for the MRI scan to have been performed in these patients remains 
unknown. 
An analysis of cases for which there was a negative brain MRI scan up to 16 weeks before onset of PML 
symptoms does not suggest a clear pattern across biweekly intervals. 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 11/34 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Anti JCV antibodies 
Anti-JCV antibody index and antibody index cut-off 
The presence of anti-JCV antibodies is one risk factor for PML which, alone, due to the high prevalence 
of anti-JCV antibodies (50-60%) in the population, is not useful for predicting the risk of PML, but 
when combined with the other two identified risk factors for natalizumab associated PML (treatment 
duration especially more than 2 years and prior immunosuppressant [IS] use), has proven clinical 
utility for risk stratification and provides physicians with an estimate of PML risk for individual patients 
receiving natalizumab.  
Detection of anti-JCV antibodies is currently performed using a 2-step ELISA (STRATIFY JCV Dx Select, 
Focus Diagnostics, Cypress, CA). Results are expressed as a binary output (positive or negative) based 
on an assay cut-point. The index value is derived from the optical density value for a sample 
normalized to an assay calibrator within the STRATIFY JCV Dx Select ELIS (Plavina et al, 2014). 
Samples that are below an index of 0.20 are considered negative, and samples above an index of 0.40 
are considered positive. For samples with an index between 0.20 and 0.40, inclusive (an indeterminate 
response), the sample is further evaluated in the second step of the ELISA (the confirmation test) and 
a positive or negative result is provided. In the EU, anti-JCV antibody testing via STRATIFY JCV Dx 
Select is performed by Unilabs in Denmark (Lee P et al, 2013). Although the results are provided as a 
binary output, a physician in the EU can obtain the index value for a patient’s sample upon request. 
In order to investigate the link between antibody index and PML risk, Anti-JCV antibody index data was 
collected using the STRATIFY JCV Dx Select assay from anti-JCV antibody positive MS patients from 
three natalizumab clinical studies: AFFIRM (n=359), STRATIFY-1 (n=680) and STRATIFY-2 (n=7131). 
Samples were obtained from clinical study patients who were receiving natalizumab as well as those 
who were not receiving natalizumab. The STRATIFY-2 data used in the main index analysis was 
extracted as of March 2014 and the STRATIFY-2 data over 4 years used in the longitudinal index 
stability analysis was extracted as of 18 May 2015. In total, there were 8,112 non-PML anti-JCV 
antibody positive MS patients with available data (total of 12,932 samples). Because PML is an 
uncommon adverse reaction in natalizumab-treated patients, PML patient samples were obtained from 
all available post-marketing sources including spontaneous reports and clinical studies (n=101, with a 
total of 442 samples); only pre-PML samples collected at least 6 months prior to PML diagnosis were 
included in the analysis. The association of index and PML risk was initially explored using a test set of 
samples and then confirmed using a validation set. The test data set consisted of 1030 non-PML anti-
JCV antibody positive MS patients from AFFIRM and STRATIFY-1 and 52 MS patients who developed 
PML from clinical studies (excluding STRATIFY-2) and post-marketing sources. The validation data set 
consisted of 7082 non-PML anti-JCV antibody positive MS patients from STRATIFY-2 and 49 MS 
patients who developed PML from STRATIFY-2. Integrated analyses of the combined data sets were 
performed on 8112 non-PML anti-JCV antibody positive MS patients and 101 MS patients who 
developed PML. For cross-sectional analyses, the lowest index was used for patients with more than 
one available index sample. 
The distribution of index in non-PML anti-JCV antibody positive MS patients was compared with the 
distribution of index in PML patients. Figure 3A represents the distribution of index values in the test 
data set utilizing the lowest index value for non-PML patients who tested anti-JCV antibody positive 
from AFFIRM and STRATIFY-1 and PML patients (from all available post-marketing sources excluding 
STRATIFY-2) with pre-PML samples collected and tested for index at least 6 months prior to PML 
diagnosis. The distribution of index suggests that the index values were significantly higher in the pre-
PML samples from natalizumab-treated PML patients compared to non-PML anti-JCV antibody positive 
patients (p<0.0001). The same type of analysis was performed using samples collected from 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 12/34 
 
 
 
 
 
STRATIFY-2. Figure 3B represents the distribution of index values in the validation data set from non-
PML patients who tested anti-JCV antibody positive at baseline from STRATIFY-2 and PML patients from 
STRATIFY-2 with pre-PML samples collected and tested for index at least 6 months prior to PML 
diagnosis. Similar to Figure 3A, the distribution of index indicates significantly higher index values in 
the pre-PML samples from the STRATIFY-2 PML patients compared to the non- PML anti-JCV antibody 
positive patients (p=0.0013). 
Figure 3 Anti-JCV antibody index in non-PML and PML patients for the (A) test and (B) validation data 
set 
Box = interquartile range; thick white horizontal line = median; horizontal bars = range; x = mean. 
P-values from Wilcoxon rank-sum test 
The impact of the established PML risk factors on index was evaluated. Data indicate that natalizumab 
treatment duration does not have a statistically significant impact on index in the test data set 
(p=0.1824). When stratifying the data in the test data set by prior IS use, there was a statistically 
significant difference (p<0.0001) in the distribution of index between PML and non-PML patients with 
no prior IS use; the difference was not seen in patients with prior IS use (p=0.8037) as shown in 
Figures 4 and 5 (p=0.0010). 
Figure 4 Anti-JCV antibody index in non-PML and PML patients stratified by prior IS use in the test data 
set
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 13/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Box = interquartile range; thick white horizontal line = median; horizontal bars = range; x = mean. 
P-values from Wilcoxon rank-sum test 
Figure 5 Anti-JCV antibody index in non-PML and PML patients stratified by prior IS use in the validation 
data set  
When the test and validation data sets were combined, the median index in patients with no prior IS 
use was significantly higher for PML patients than for non-PML patients (p<0.0001), while there was no 
significant difference in the median index for non-PML and PML patients with prior IS use (p=0.6424).  
It must be noted that the point estimate for the median index in the prior IS cohort is numerically 
higher in the PML cases compared with the non-PML cases, but the 95% confidence intervals are wide 
and the overall number of PML patients with prior IS use and available anti-JCV antibody index is small 
(n=26). Therefore, the ability to reach firm conclusions on the lack of an association of index and PML 
in the prior IS population is limited. Because pooling the IS and non-IS patient populations might 
underestimate the risk of PML in patients with prior IS use, subsequent analyses of index and PML risk 
were limited to patients with no prior IS use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 14/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Anti-JCV antibody index in non-PML and PML patients (combined test and validation data set) 
stratified by prior IS use 
P-values for the comparison in index values between PML and non-PML patients were based on a Wilcoxon ranksum 
test; p-value for the interaction was based on a general linear model of the ranked index values. 
A scatterplot of the distribution of index in the combined test and validation data sets of non- PML and 
PML patients with no prior IS use demonstrates the overall higher index in PML patients with no prior 
IS use compared with non-PML patients with no prior IS use (p<0.0001) (Fig. 7). These results remain 
significant after 1,731 patients who had not been treated with natalizumab at the time of sample 
collection were removed from the non-PML, no prior IS use cohort (p<0.0001). 
Figure 7 Index distribution in anti-JCV antibody positive non-PML and PML patents with no prior IS use 
(combined test and validation data sets) 
P-values from Wilcoxon rank-sum test 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 15/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given the overall distribution of index values in PML patients, with most PML patients having index 
above 1.5 and few PML patients (n=3) having index below 0.9, the proportion of PML and non-PML 
patients having index values above or below index thresholds ranging from 0.9 to 1.5 was explored. 
The estimated proportions of anti-JCV antibody positive non-PML and PML patients with no prior IS use 
who fell at or below index  thresholds ranging from 0.9 to 1.5 (and the associated 95% CIs) are shown 
in Table 3. The odds ratio of PML comparing patients with index above the thresholds ranging from 0.9 
to 1.5 with those patients with index at or below the thresholds is ≥7 (range ~7-15) with wide 95% 
CIs. 
Table 3 Estimated proportions of anti-JCV antibody positive non-PML and PML patients with no prior IS 
use by Index threshold 
Anti- JCV 
antibody 
index 
% of 
non- PML 
patients 
below 
threshold 
95% CI 
% of PML 
patients 
below 
threshold 
95% CI 
Odds 
ratio 
95% CI 
≤0.9 
≤1.0 
≤1.1 
≤1.2 
≤1.3 
≤1.4 
≤1.5 
31.0 
33.8 
36.4 
38.9 
41.2 
43.5 
45.7 
30.0 – 32.1  2.9 
0.8 – 10.3 
15.2 
3.9 – 58.8 
32.7 – 34.9  3.6 
1.2 – 10.6 
13.6 
4.3 – 43.1 
35.3 – 37.6  5.1 
1.9 – 12.9 
10.7 
3.9 – 29.2 
37.7 – 40.0  6.6 
2.8 – 14.8 
9.0 
3.7 – 22.0 
40.1 – 42.3  8.1 
3.8 – 16.4 
8.0 
3.6 – 17.9 
42.3 – 44.6  9.0 
4.5 – 17.4 
7.7 
3.6 – 16.4 
44.5 – 46.9  9.9 
4.9 – 18.9 
7.7 
3.6 – 16.4 
In order to identify the optimal cut-off level, the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve method 
was used to compare sensitivity and specificity across a range of possible antibody index thresholds 
based on all currently available data from ongoing and completed clinical studies and relevant post-
marketing data (see above). The results of the ROC analysis confirm that the risk of PML is a 
continuum associated with increasing index values. The range of index thresholds assessed in Table 3 
generally fall on a flat part of the ROC curve and show very limited difference in sensitivity/specificity.  
Therefore, although higher anti-JCV antibody index is associated with higher PML risk compared to 
lower index values, all index cut-points evaluated are close to the optimal densitivity/specificity 
balance defined by the distance to the diagonal line. Therefore, it is unclear whether a single index cut-
point with optimal clinical utility can be identified. 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 16/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 Sensitivity/specificity of index cut-points in anti-JCV antibody positive non-PML and PML 
patients with no prior immunosuppressant use 
Figure 8 ROC Curve of index cutpoints in anti-JCV antibody positive non-PML and PML patients with no 
prior immunosuppressant use 
It should also be noted that the index cut-point of 1.5 has a D value of 0.36, nearly indistinguishable 
from the maximum of 0.37, while limiting the false negative rate (1-sensitivity) to be below 10%.  
Risk associated with increasing anti-JCV antibody index is a continuum, and identification of a single 
cut-off point appears to be difficult. The cut-off of 0.9 has the highest sensitivity but specificity is 
rather low. The cut-off of 1.5 has a somewhat better specificity but is less sensitive. 
To further assess the clinical utility of the antibody index, PML risk was stratified by antibody index for 
patients with positive anti-JCV antibodies and no prior IS use from STRATIFY-2. Consistent with the 
results of the ROC analysis, lower index cut-points show higher sensitivity in identifying patients who 
developed PML in this data set (97.3 % with cut-off of 0.9 and 89.2 % with a cut-off of 1.5), but at the 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 17/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
expense of lowering specificity. With a cut-off of 0.9 approximately 73 % of patients who did not 
develop PML would be classified as being at higher risk, whereas with a data-cut off of 1.5 
approximately 58 % of non-PML patients would be classified at higher risk.  
Table 5 Number (%) of JCV antibody positive patients with no prior immunosuppressant use in antibody 
index categories - STRATIFY-2 study 
PML risk estimates and index  
PML risk estimates in anti-JCV antibody positive patients were derived using Life Table Method based 
on the pooled cohort of 21,696 patients who participated in the STRATIFY-2, TOP, TYGRIS, and 
STRATA clinical studies. Further stratification of PML risk by anti-JCV antibody index interval for 
patients with no prior use of immunosuppressant were derived from combining the overall yearly risk 
with the antibody index distribution. The resulting PML risk estimates per 1,000 patients for anti-JCV 
antibody positive patients with no prior IS use are shown in the table below.  
Table 6 New PML risk estimates, including stratification by index threshold in anti-JCV antibody positive 
patients with no prior immunosuppressant use 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 18/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The second column (patients without prior IS use with ‘no index value’) describes the PML risk of anti-
JCV antibody positive patients without stratification by index.  
In anti-JCV antibody positive Tysabri treated patients who have not used prior immunosuppressants, 
the level of anti-JCV antibody response (index) is associated with the level of risk for PML (i.e. the risk 
is greater in those with a high antibody index compared to those with a low index). Currently available 
evidence suggests that the risk of PML is low at an index equal to or below 0.9 and increases 
substantially above 1.5 for patients who have been on treatment with Tysabri for longer than 2 years.   
Longitudinal stability of anti-JCV antibody index 
Longitudinal stability of anti-JCV antibody index was evaluated using data from the ongoing STRATIFY-
2 clinical study as of 18 May 2015. Patients who had index values at least two time points were 
included in this analysis. Time to the first high index value from a baseline anti-JCV antibody negative 
status, from a baseline anti-JCV antibody negative status or a baseline anti-JCV antibody positive 
status with low index combined, or from a baseline anti-JCV antibody positive status with low index is 
plotted over time. Baseline is defined as the first available anti-JCV antibody result in STRATIFY-2. 
Sample collection in STRATIFY-2 was initially performed annually and then changed to every 6 months. 
14% of baseline anti-JCV antibody negative patients became antibody positive high index (index above 
0.9) over 4 years corresponding to an approximately 4% annualized serostatus change rate from 
negative to high index. If the cut-off index was 1.5, 11.3% of baseline anti-JCV antibody negative 
patients became antibody positive high index over 4 years corresponding to an approximately 3% 
annualized serostatus change rate from negative to high index.  
41.3% of anti-JCV antibody positive low index (index ≤0.9) patients became antibody positive high 
index (index above 0.9) over 4 years which resulted in an approximately 12% annualized rate of 
change from antibody positive low to high index above 0.9. If index point is 1.5, 33.9% of anti-JCV 
antibody positive low index patients became antibody positive high index over 4 years which resulted 
in an approximately 10% annualized rate of change from antibody positive low index to high index 
above 1.5. 
A summary of the longitudinal stability data for anti-JCV antibody index from STRATIFY-2 collected 
over 4 years is shown below in the table below for index thresholds of 0.9 and 1.5. 
Table 7 Longitudinal stability data for anti-JCV antibody index for index thresholds of 0.9 and 1.5 in 
STRATIFY-2 collected over 4 years 
Index threshold 
0.9 
1.5 
Annual rate of 
change from 
antibody negative to 
high index 
4 % 
3 % 
Annual rate of change 
from antibody negative 
or positive low index to 
high index 
5 % 
4 % 
Annual rate of 
change from 
antibody low index to 
high index 
12 % 
10 % 
Data from STRATIFY-2 show that antibody index change from negative or low index to high index 
occur in 4-5 % of patients per year.  The majority (>80%) of patients having a baseline negative anti-
JCV antibody status or baseline positive low index value had their index value remain below the index 
threshold (0.9 or 1.5) over 4 years. 
Anti-JCV antibody ELISA 
The first generation anti-JCV antibody ELISA assay (STRATIFY JCV) became commercially available in 
the EU in March 2011. The second generation ELISA assay (STRATIFY JCV Dx Select) was developed to 
enhance the robustness and performance characteristics of the assay and to provide improved 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 19/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
efficiency (limit of detection = 60 ng/mL versus 350 ng/mL, respectively) at the diagnostic testing lab 
by translating it into a ready-to-use kit format. STRATIFY JCV Dx Select became commercially 
available in the EU in March 2012. Currently, all testing globally for anti-JCV antibodies both 
commercially and in clinical studies utilizes the second generation assay. Because the published PML 
algorithm is based on the first generation ELISA anti-JCV antibody assay, seroprevalence data for the 
second generation ELISA anti-JCV antibody assay by age, history of MS treatment and country (da 
Silva AM et al, 2014, Bhan V et al, 2014) was analised.  
The second-generation anti-JCV antibody assay was shown by Focus Diagnostics to have positive 
percent agreement of greater than 97% and a negative percent agreement of greater than 90% when 
compared with the first-generation assay. Focus Diagnostics has received 510(k) clearance from the 
Centers for Diagnostics and Radiological Health for this device and the device has a CE Mark in the EU. 
The anti-JCV antibody assay is currently performed in 3 laboratories: Focus Diagnostics (Cypress, CA), 
Unilabs (Copenhagen, Denmark), and Cirion Central Laboratory (Laval, Canada). At the time that the 
PML risk algorithm was first included in the Physician Information and Management Guidelines in 2011, 
the anti-JCV antibody status of the overall natalizumab-treated population was unknown, and an 
assumption of 55% positive serostatus was utilized in the calculation of the risk estimates. This 
number was based on the anti-JCV antibody prevalence in approximately 6,000 MS patients from 
natalizumab clinical trials (baseline samples) and a national MS registry testing for the presence of 
anti-JCV antibodies using the first generation assay. 
Currently available data demonstrate that anti-JCV antibody prevalence was generally similar using the 
first and second generation assay and ranged from approximately 50-60%. Baseline data from 
STRATIFY-1 reported 56% positive serostatus using the first generation assay and 55% positive 
serostatus using the second generation assay. The positive serostatus in STRATIFY-1 using the first 
and second generation assays remained similar when stratified by age or prior IS use. Real-world 
serostatus data from Unilabs in six EU countries (Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain) 
showed that positive serostatus is generally consistent across the individual countries and between the 
two assays ranging from 53%-59% on cross sectional analysis and ever positive analysis in the first 
generation assay and 51%-60% on cross sectional analysis and 53%-61% on ever positive analysis in 
the second generation assay. 
The analysis of anti-JCV antibody serostatus change using samples from STRATIFY-2 over 4 years 
(initially collected every 12 months and later collected every 6 months within the study) demonstrates 
that approximately 9% of patients change from anti-JCV antibody negative to positive per year. A 12-
16% serostatus change rate is observed in Unilabs real-world data from EU countries collected and 
tested using the second generation assay over a median duration of 12 months. The current Physician 
Information and Management Guidelines mentions an 11% annual serostatus change rate based on 18 
month data from STRATIFY-1 (where samples were collected every 6 months throughout the study).  
The assumption of 55% positive serostatus for the overall natalizumab-treated population utilized in 
the PML risk algorithm calculations remains acceptable. In general, the positive serostatus results 
using the first and second generation assays were similar. There is no significant impact of the second 
generation assay on the risk estimates within the algorithm.  
The available longitudinal data from the STRATIFY-2 study in patients who changed serostatus from 
baseline anti-JCV antibody positive to negative using the second generation STRATIFY JCV Dx Select 
assay was also reviewed. In the second generation STRATIFY JCV Dx Select assay, index levels below 
0.2 are considered antibody negative and index levels above 0.4 are considered antibody positive; 
index levels between 0.2 and 0.4 are considered indeterminate and are retested in the second step of 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 20/34 
 
 
 
 
 
the ELISA to determine the binary test result. A presentation of the last index level for the STRATIFY-2 
patients who changed serostatus from positive to negative in STRATIFY-2 is shown in the table below. 
Table  8  Index  levels  in  patients  who  changed  serostatus  from  positive  to  negative  in  the  STRATIFY-2 
study 
In the patients who changed serostatus from positive to negative, the median last index level before 
testing antibody negative was 0.44 (25th quartile = 0.34; 75th quartile = 0.55), which was close to 
the cut-off index level of 0.4 (above which is reported as antibody positive in the STRATIFY JCV Dx 
Select assay). 
2.4.  PML development after discontinuation of natalizumab 
Almost all PML patients were diagnosed while on natalizumab treatment, but some patients have been 
diagnosed after discontinuation. As of 4 June 2015, 566 confirmed cases of PML were reported in 
natalizumab-treated patients. The time to PML onset after last natalizumab infusion was known for 
98% (555/566) of patients; the majority (481/555, 87%) had PML onset prior to or within 4 weeks of 
their last infusion of natalizumab. Of these 481 patients, 232 had PML onset prior to the last infusion of 
natalizumab and 249 had PML onset within 4 weeks of their last infusion of natalizumab. The remaining 
74 (13%) patients had PML onset more than 4 weeks after their last infusion of natalizumab and were 
classified as having occurred after natalizumab discontinuation. In 11/566 (2%) patients, the time of 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 21/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PML onset relative to the last natalizumab infusion was unknown. In 8 of these cases, the date of last 
natalizumab infusion was unknown while in 3 cases, the date of PML onset was unknown. 
Of the 74 patients with PML onset more than 4 weeks after last natalizumab infusion, 57 were reported 
spontaneously in the post marketing setting and 17 were reported from clinical or observational 
studies.  
Eight patients (11%) were asymptomatic and initial suspicion of PML was based on MRI findings. Nine 
patients (12%) died and 65 (88%) were alive at the time of the analysis. Natalizumab exposure 
ranged from 8 to 90 months (mean 43 and median 42.5), with the majority of the patients (81%; 
60/74) having received >24 months of treatment. The time between the last natalizumab infusion and 
the onset of PML ranged from 1 to 6 months, with a mean and median of 2.1 and 1.8 months, 
respectively; the majority of cases (88%; 65/74) occurred within 3 months of the last infusion of 
natalizumab.  A graphical presentation of the time of PML onset in relation to the last natalizumab 
infusion is presented in Figure 1. The time between the last natalizumab infusion and PML diagnosis 
(defined as the date of CSF with positive JCV DNA or brain biopsy positive for JCV) ranged from 1 to 7 
months, with a mean and median of 2.8 and 2.6 months, respectively.  
Figure 9 Time to PML onset from last natalizumab infusion 
Among the 74 patients whose PML onset was > 4 weeks after the last infusion of natalizumab, 
suspicion of PML was the most common reason for drug discontinuation (25 patients; 33.8%). 
Other reasons for natalizumab discontinuation included the following: presence of risk factors for PML 
including the presence of anti-JCV antibodies (16 patients; 21.6%), lack of effect (5 patients; 6.8%), 
switch to an alternative MS therapy (3 patients; 4.1%), initial alternative diagnosis other than PML, 
pregnancy, drug holiday, urinary tract infection, sinusitis, and end of clinical study treatment (1 patient 
each). In addition, 3 patients had been receiving natalizumab at 8 week intervals (1 patient for the last 
4 infusions and 2 patients for the last 2 infusions) and 1 patient missed a dose of natalizumab for 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 22/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“logistical reasons”; these 4 patients may not have intended to discontinue natalizumab treatment, but 
reported PML onset more than 4 weeks after their last natalizumab infusion. For the remaining 15 
patients (20.3%), the reason for natalizumab discontinuation was unknown. Fifty nine patients (80%) 
had anti-JCV antibody test results reported. 
Prior immunosuppressant (IS) use was unknown in 4 patients (5.4%). For the remaining 70 patients, 
49 patients (70%) had no prior IS use and 21 patients (30 %) had prior IS use. Sixteen patients 
(22%) reported receiving another MS therapy at the time of PML onset: 10 patients were receiving 
fingolimod (including one patient who switched from fingolimod to glatiramer acetate between onset of 
symptoms and diagnosis of PML), 2 patients were receiving rituximab, 2 patients were receiving 
glatiramer acetate, 1 patient was receiving mycophenolate, and 1 patient was receiving dimethyl 
fumarate.  
Among the 13% (74/555) of PML cases who developed symptoms more than 4 weeks after the last 
infusion of natalizumab, all occurred within 6 months of the last natalizumab infusion.  
The reversal of PK and PD (α4-integrin saturation and markers of immune function) effects of 
natalizumab and the temporal pattern of return of disease activity (as an indicator of return of central 
nervous system [CNS] immune surveillance) in natalizumab-treated MS subjects who discontinued 
natalizumab was explored in the prospective clinical study RESTORE (101MS205). In this study, 
subjects were randomized to 1 of 3 groups:  
(1) continued to receive natalizumab infusions every 4 weeks for 24 weeks;  
(2) received infusions of placebo every 4 weeks for 24 weeks; or 
(3) discontinued natalizumab for 24 weeks, but received an alternative immunomodulatory treatment.   
After the last dose of natalizumab in the non-natalizumab groups, values for PD markers (including α4-
integrin saturation and total leukocyte counts) declined, and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule 
(sVCAM) concentrations and very late antigen-4 (VLA4) expression increased concordantly. The 
average predose α4-integrin saturation levels (an indicator of target engagement) at Week 0 (when 
last natalizumab dose was administered), were above 80% for all treatment groups, consistent with 
what has been measured at steady-state. Pre-dose saturation began to fall from the steady-state 
values in the nonnatalizumab groups such that by week 16 (4 months after last natalizumab infusion) 
values were consistent with subjects who had not received natalizumab. Study subjects who were on 
natalizumab throughout the study maintained consistently high α4 integrin saturation. 
In addition, immunological markers of immune competence (lymphocyte count, leukocyte subset 
counts [CD4, CD8, CD19, CD34, and CD56], and leukocyte functional assessment as measured by 
adhesion) were assessed, and by Week 16, mean values were consistent with those observed in 
subjects who had not received natalizumab.  
The occurrence of MRI disease activity was assessed by regular 4-weekly MRI scans during the 
randomized period, as it is more sensitive than clinical activity (relapse). Natalizumab treatment 
interruption resulted in the occurrence of gadolinium enhancing (Gd+) lesions in subjects randomised 
to the placebo or alternate immunotherapy groups beginning 12 weeks after the last natalizumab dose 
(n=3). In all, 49 of 122 (40%) non-natalizumab subjects met protocol defined MRI rescue criteria (1 
new Gd+ lesion >0.8 cm3 or 2 or more Gd+ lesions of any size) during the randomized treatment 
period. None of the subjects in the natalizumab group met MRI rescue criteria. The majority of non-
natalizumab subjects (76%, 37 of 49 subjects) who met MRI rescue criteria had their first MRI meeting 
rescue criteria at week 16 or week 20.  
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 23/34 
 
 
 
 
 
The data from the RESTORE study indicate that serum concentrations of natalizumab decrease 
following last infusion such that levels are no longer detectable by week 16. The pharmacodynamic 
effects of natalizumab are also reversed by approximately week 16 after last natalizumab infusion 
when means values are consistent with those of patients who have never received natalizumab. MRI 
disease activity returns within similar timeframes, peaking at 16-20 weeks after last infusion. 
Published reports support that reductions of CSF WBCs and lymphocyte subsets associated with 
natalizumab treatment are reversible upon natalizumab discontinuation, though these effects may 
persist up to 6 months after last dose. 
All PML cases in patients who had received natalizumab occurred within 6 months of the last infusion. 
These findings support the current SmPC recommendation that physicians should remain vigilant for 
signs and symptoms of PML for approximately 6 months after natalizumab discontinuation. 
2.5.  PML risk estimation 
The risk stratification algorithm currently included in the educational material is based on PML 
incidences (Bloomgren et al, 2012).The incidence calculation is derived by the confirmed number of 
PML cases among patients in a certain time period (e.g. 0-24 months) and the total number of patients 
ever exposed to natalizumab during that same period. The PML risk estimates of the incidence based 
algorithm present risk as a forward-looking interval risk at the beginning of the specified period (e.g. 
over the next 2 year treatment interval), and differ from the Kaplan-Meier (KM) analysis which 
presents the cumulative risk of PML over time.  
The KM analysis and the life-table method (also called the actuarial method) are similar methodologies 
used to estimate the failure time function with censoring taken into account (exposure stopped without 
observing events). The KM analysis estimates the cumulative probability of PML risk over time with risk 
updated at each event time, and the lifetable method estimates the conditional probability of risk 
within each pre-defined time interval for the subjects that had no event up to the beginning of the 
given time interval. Both methods adjust the denominator to account for censoring within each time 
interval. 
Supplemental presentations of PML risk using different methodologies may be complementary to the 
information within the current algorithm and will provide additional information to physicians as they 
engage in benefit/risk discussions with their patients. 
Therefore, two new presentations of PML risk that are derived from a pooled study cohort (STRATIFY-
2, TOP, TYGRIS and STRATA studies) of natalizumab-treated patients - a KM analysis of PML risk and a 
table of PML risk estimates by year of natalizumab exposure using the standard actuarial method – will 
be included in the educational material. 
2.6.  Biomarkers for PML development 
L-selectin expression on CD4+ T cells 
Schwab et al (Schwab et al, 2013) investigated the expression of T lymphocytes surface markers and 
suggested that L-selectin (CD62L) expression on CD4+ T cells might identify in addition to known risk 
factors MS patients at high risk for PML, since all 8 patients in their study who developed PML had a 
previous blood sample showing levels of CD62L expression below a hypothetical threshold. CD62L is a 
key adhesion molecule which regulates the migration of leukocytes at sites of inflammation and the 
recirculation of lymphocytes between blood and lymphoid tissue. The MAH was not able to confirm the 
published results with regard to L-Selectin/ CD62L as a potential biomarker for PML risk assessment. 
The reasons for the conflicting results (e.g. handling problems such as storage transport etc.) remain 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 24/34 
 
 
 
 
 
unknown. Interestingly Spadaro M et al (Spadaro M et al, 2015) have found that natalizumab treated 
MS patients showed a lower percentage of CD62L compared to patients treated with first line MS 
therapy. One patient with asymptomatic PML associated with natalizumab belonged also to the group 
with low levels of CD62L. Basnayat et al (Basnayat et al, 2015) investigated soluble L-selectin in 
patients with relapsing-remitting MS. The results of their small study support the hypothesis of sL-
selectin being connected to the anti-JCV antibody index values and possibly cellular L-selectin. Thus 
additional studies are considered important to investigate whether CD62L might be a suitable 
biomarker for PML risk.  
IgM Oligoclonal bands for risk stratification prior to initiating natalizumab 
IgG Oligoclonal bands (OCBs) are routinely used as an MS diagnostic test, with high IgG OCBs linked 
to high disease activity. IgM OCBs to myelin lipids are not routinely assessed but are also linked to 
aggressive disease (Villar et al. 2005). Recently, Luisa Villar et al. (Villar et al. 2015) reported that 
Lipid-specific IgM OCBs in CSF may also be a potential marker for reduced risk of PML by analysing 
176 anti-JCV antibody positive patient’s CSF and paired serum samples from MS patients. High risk for 
PML was observed in patients that where negative for lipid-specific IgM OCBs; 22 of 23 PML (>95%) 
natalizumab-associated cases were IgM OCB negative prior to treatment. However, IgM OCB 
evaluation also showed a significant false positive rate, 49 of 71 (69%) anti-JCV antibody positive, 
lipid-specific IgM OCB negative patients with similar duration of natalizumab treatment never 
developed PML (Villar et al. 2015). 
The most compelling observation of the Villar study is that only 1 PML case (0.6% of all JCV+ patients 
tested) was positive for IgM OCBs. Anti-JCV antibody patients that are also positive for lipid-specific 
IgM OCBs had a similar PML risk to anti-JCV antibody negative patients (Villar et al. 2015). These data, 
if reproduced more widely, would suggest that the lipid specific IgM antibodies may protect from the 
pathogenic infection of glial cells in the brain and that natalizumab could be used safely in this subset 
of anti-JCV antibody positive patients.  
3.  Expert consultation  
The PRAC consulted the neurology scientific advisory group (SAG) which provided advice on a number 
of issues. 
The SAG confirmed that current medical practice in the EU has changed to a clear trend to recommend 
more frequent MRIs. In particular UK, Spain, Belgium, NL and France seem to be applying a risk 
stratification approach with more frequent MRI scans for patients considered at high risk for PML.  
SAG experts were asked to comment on the reliability of MRI in the detection of pre-clinical PML 
lesions. The experts agreed that the sensitivity of the MRI in this situation is high and this is sufficient 
as low specificity is not an issue, since any suspicious MRI lesion will lead to further investigations (CSF 
fluid JCV testing or repeated MRI). For the purpose of PML screening, the SAG recommended 
abbreviated sequences (T2, FLAIR, DWI). T1 Gadolinium-enhancement was not considered necessary 
for screening purposes, but could still be used in case of PML suspicion. The SAG acknowledged that it 
is not easy to recognise an early PML lesion on MRI (specially a small one, early in the development of 
the condition) and that interrater variability is considerable even among neuroradiologists. 
The SAG was also asked whether it was possible to identify specific sub-groups of patients on Tysabri 
that might benefit from more frequent MRIs in the context of early detection of pre-clinical PML lesions, 
and what would be the appropriate MRI scan schedule for such patients.  The experts agreed that 
different risk groups exist depending on the combination of risk factors present, such as: duration of 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 25/34 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment, JCV status, previous therapy with immunosuppressants and anti-JCV antibody index value. 
The SAG considered that there may be a need for a different approach to monitoring depending on risk 
level. While there are limited data available to help determine appropriate MRI frequency, the SAG 
experts agreed that more frequent MRIs may improve the chances of detecting asymptomatic PML 
cases and that a frequency of around 3-4 months was a reasonable interval to realistically allow 
detection of early PML cases in higher risk patients. These were considered to be: 
• 
• 
Patients exposed to prior immunosuppressant therapy and positive for anti-JCV antibodies (and 
treatment duration > 2 years) 
Patients with anti-JCV antibody index > 0.9 (regardless of previous exposure to 
immunosuppressant therapy), and treatment duration > 2 years  
The SAG also recommended that when patients are switched to other therapies, close monitoring for at 
least 6 months should be maintained as per the SmPC. 
When asked to consider the feasibility of more frequent MRIs in view of the burden for patients and 
healthcare systems in the EU, both the experts and the patient representative considered that there 
were no feasibility issues and supported a view that higher risk patients should be followed preferably 
in an appropriate setting (i.e. MS experienced neurologist or specialised centre, with full access to MRI 
facility and experienced neuroradiologist trained for early PML diagnosis). 
With regards to the use of anti-JCV antibody index as and additional criterion for risk stratification, the 
experts agreed that the index could be useful in certain cases but there was no unanimous view on 
whether using a specific threshold would be appropriate. Some SAG members considered that changes 
in antibody index should be interpreted in the overall clinical context and therefore it was not 
appropriate to define thresholds leading to specific actions. For those who did consider it appropriate, 
there was no unanimous view on the threshold to be used. 
The SAG also discussed the available data on the use of %CD62L levels as a marker for individual PML 
risk stratification, and concluded that while it may show promise it is not yet suitable for clinical use 
and further studies should be performed. 
4.  Other data  
During the course of the assessment, selected Multiple Sclerosis registries in the EU (which enrolled a 
considerable number of patients treated with natalizumab for several years) were contacted and 
invited to submit relevant information on PML cases and PML detection strategy in their registries. 
Responses were received from registries in France, Germany, Poland and Sweden. Relevant national 
guidelines were also considered. In addition, the PRAC also considered information provided by third 
parties during the referral procedure. 
5.  Overall conclusions 
Diagnosis of PML before development of clinical symptoms 
As of May 2015, 142,958 patients had received natalizumab worldwide with 432,814 patient-years of 
exposure. A total of 566 PML cases have been reported globally as of 04 June 2015, of which 133 
patients died (23.5 % of PML patients). Patients who survive often have serious morbidity associated 
with serious and permanent disability.      
In sixty-two PML patients (10.9%) asymptomatic onset PML has been reported. While 10 cases have 
been reported in the US, most of the asymptomatic cases were reported from EU/ROW (83%, 52/62). 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 26/34 
 
 
 
 
 
Although asymptomatic PML patients had generally similar baseline clinical characteristics compared 
with symptomatic patients, a higher proportion of asymptomatic patients presented with more 
localized disease (64% unilobar PML) on MRI at the time of diagnosis compared to symptomatic PML 
patients (36%). The shorter time to diagnosis of asymptomatic patients compared with symptomatic 
patients may have enabled earlier immune reconstitution following discontinuation of natalizumab. 
Most importantly, in terms of outcomes, asymptomatic patients appeared to have less accrual of 
disability over time and higher survival rates compared with symptomatic patients (95% vs. 74%). 
These data confirm previous observations that early PML diagnosis is critical in limiting the degree of 
permanent brain damage before immune reconstitution can be achieved, and reinforces the need to 
put in place strategies for the earliest possible identification of potential PML cases, if possible before 
the development of clinical symptoms of PML.  
Asymptomatic PML cases were identified via routine MRI. MRI is considered to be a sensitive method to 
identify even small and asymptomatic PML lesions (Wattjes MP, 2015). Considering the dire diagnosis 
of PML a high level of vigilance and a low threshold even for invasive diagnostic measures and 
interventions such as MRI is warranted for managing patients with high risk for PML development. In 
spite of limitations of the currently available evidence such as small numbers, lack of information about 
MRI frequency in PML patients, false positive and false negative rate of MRI screenings, patients with a 
high risk for PML development may in particular benefit from more frequent MRIs because periodic 
brain MRI are likely to provide earlier detection of PML, even before symptoms develop, and 
subsequently better outcomes.  
Published data (Blair NF, 2012; McGovern E, 2013, Wattjes MP, 2015) suggest that patients considered 
as having a high risk for PML development and who continue natalizumab treatment beyond 2 years of 
treatment may benefit from more frequent MRI screening e.g. every 3 to 6 months.   
There seems to be consensus among experts that routine MRI screening for suspected PML lesions can 
be conducted without gadolinium –enhancement (Wattjes MP, 2015, McGuigan C, 2015). For 
natalizumab-treated patients with MS, who are at high risk of PML, brain MRI screening using a 
protocol that includes FLAIR, T2-weighted and diffusion –weighted imaging is recommended (Wattjes 
MP, 2015, McGuigan C, 2015, Rovira et al, 2015). Increasing evidence indicates that T2-FLAIR is the 
most sensitive sequence for detecting PML (Richert N, 2012). Diffusion –weighted imaging is highly 
sensitive for depicting acute demyelinisation and can also aid differentiation of acute PML lesions from 
chronic and subacute demyelinating PML lesions (Richert N, 2012, summary in Wattjes MP, 2015). In 
patients with MRI lesions suggestive for PML, the MRI protocol should be extended to include contrast-
enhanced T1-weighted imaging to detect inflammatory features and the possible coincidence of PML 
and PML-IRIS, particularly during follow up (Yousry TA, 2012, Gheuens S, 2012).   
It is acknowledged that high expertise is necessary to identify small and asymptomatic PML lesions via 
MRI. Thus, adequate guidance needs to be provided in the educational materials, and other tools may 
also be explored (e.g. web-based) for sharing MRIs and consultation of additional expertise.  
Anti-JCV antibody index for guiding MRI monitoring frequency 
Available data to date suggest that anti-JCV antibody index is correlated with the risk of PML in anti-
JCV antibody positive patients with no prior IS use. However, it is unclear whether a single index cut-
point can be identified within the range of index thresholds assessed that will provide optimal clinical 
utility in terms of treatment decisions. The balance between sensitivity and specificity in this range 
needs to be carefully considered. Sensitivity differs very little between the index of 0.9 and 1.5 but 
there is improved specificity with 1.5. Currently available evidence suggests that the risk of PML is low 
at an index equal to or below 0.9 (and lower than previously estimated) and increases substantially 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 27/34 
 
 
 
 
 
above 1.5 for patients who have been on treatment with Tysabri for longer than 2 years. For patients 
with prior immunosuppressant treatment, no significant difference was observed in median index 
between non-PML and PML patients. 
Anti-JCV antibody testing 
Currently it is recommended that patients who are anti-JCV antibody negative should be tested for 
seroconversion twice yearly. Based on the data on antibody index stability from STRATIFY-2 the 
recommendation should be maintained.  
In addition patients without prior immunosuppressant use and a low antibody index should also be 
tested every 6 months if they are treated beyond 2 years. For patients without prior 
immunosuppressant use and with high anti-JCV antibody index, no further antibody testing is required, 
as more frequent MRI screening should be considered if natalizumab treatment is continued for more 
than 2 years. 
Anti-JCV antibody ELISA 
The assumption of 55% positive serostatus for the overall natalizumab-treated population utilized in 
the PML risk algorithm calculations remains acceptable. In general, the positive serostatus results 
using the first and second generation assays were similar. There is no significant impact of the second 
generation assay on the risk estimates within the algorithm.  
Considering real world data from UNILABS from four EU countries showing that the upper annual 
serostatus change rate can be as high as 16%, the annual (negative to positive) serostatus change 
rate in the Physician Information and Management Guidelines needs to be updated. In addition, it 
needs to be clarified that patients who test anti-JCV antibody positive at any time should be considered 
to be at an increased risk of PML, independent of any prior or subsequent antibody test result. 
PML development after discontinuation of natalizumab 
All PML cases in patients who had received natalizumab occurred within 6 months of the last infusion. 
These findings support the current SmPC recommendation that physicians should remain vigilant for 
signs and symptoms of PML for approximately 6 months after natalizumab discontinuation, and that 
the same monitoring strategy should apply for up to 6 months after discontinuation. It is important to 
update the package leaflet concerning the risk of PML up to 6 months following Tysabri discontinuation.  
PML risk estimation 
The risk stratification algorithm in the educational material will be revised to include current estimates 
derived from a pooled study cohort (STRATIFY-2, TOP, TYGRIS and STRATA studies) of natalizumab-
treated patients, and to incorporate anti-JCV antibody index. 
Supplemental presentations of PML risk using different methodologies may be complementary to the 
information within the current algorithm and will provide additional information to physicians as they 
engage in benefit/risk discussions with their patients. In particular, the inclusion of a Kaplan-Meier  
analysis of PML risk alongside the algorithm would allow to present cumulative risk of PML over time. 
Biomarkers for PML development 
Recent efforts to identify potential biomarkers are promising but have not resulted, to date, in the 
identification of new markers that can be used in clinical practice to enhance the existing PML risk 
stratification.  
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 28/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In view of all of the above, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Tysabri remains 
favourable subject to amendments to the product information and additional risk minimisation 
measures as described below.  
6.  Risk management 
The MAH should operate a risk management system described in a Risk Management Plan which has 
been endorsed as part of the current review procedure.  
6.1.  Pharmacovigilance activity 
The Tysabri data collection tool (DCTs) enhancing the overall MRI data collection for symptomatic and 
asymptomatic PML cases to include the MRI testing frequency and the reason for MRI testing for all 
patients. Going forward further data on the optimal MRI testing frequency may therefore become 
available. 
6.2.  Risk minimisation activities  
6.2.1.  Amendments to the product information 
The PRAC considered that routine risk minimisation measures in the form of updates to the product 
information would be necessary in order to minimise the risk of PML associated with the use of Tysabri. 
These changes include amendments to section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly. 
6.2.2.  Direct Healthcare Professional Communications/Communication 
plan 
The PRAC adopted the wording of a Direct Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC) to inform 
healthcare professionals of the conclusions of this review, including the need to consider more frequent 
MRIs and the need to retest patients with low anti-JCV antibody index and no prior exposure to 
immunosuppressant therapy every 6 months once they reach the 2-year treatment point. 
6.2.3.  Educational materials 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder must, following discussions and agreement with the National 
Competent Authorities in each Member State where Tysabri is marketed, ensure that all physicians 
who intend to prescribe Tysabri are provided with a physician pack containing the following: 
•  Summary of Product Characteristics and package leaflet 
• 
• 
• 
Physician information about Tysabri 
Patient alert card 
Treatment initiation and treatment continuation forms 
The Physician Information and Management Guideline shall be revised to include detailed information 
on: 
•  Updated risk estimates for development of PML in Tysabri-treated patients, including 
presentation of PML risk in a given interval of treatment as well as cumulative PML risk; 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 29/34 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
The association between level of anti-JCV antibody response (index) and increased risk for the 
development of Tysabri in patients without prior exposure to immunosuppressant treatment; 
Prognosis of asymptomatic and symptomatic PML; 
The need to consider more frequent MRIs (e.g. on a 3 to 6 monthly basis) for patients at high 
risk of PML; 
•  Description of MRI protocols for baseline, routine screening and in case of PML suspicion: 
•  Anti-JCV antibody testing, frequency of testing, interpretation of qualitative and quantitative 
results, seroprevalence of anti-JCV antibodies and seroconversion rate over time; 
•  Monitoring strategy after discontinuation of Tysabri treatment.  
The patient alert card shall be revised as follows:  
• 
Further emphasise the need remain aware of PML symptoms for up to 6 months after stopping 
treatment with Tysabri. 
The Treatment initiation and treatment continuation forms shall be revised as follows:  
•  Updated PML risk estimates will be included, including reference to how the level of anti-JCV 
antibodies may impact on the risk of developing PML.  
A treatment discontinuation form is introduced to remind prescribers and inform patients to continue 
the same MRI monitoring frequency as on treatment for up to 6 months after stopping Tysabri, as well 
as to remain vigilant for symptoms of PML.  
A mock-up of the educational material reflecting these updates can be found annexed to the Risk 
Management Plan. 
7.  Grounds for Recommendation 
Whereas, 
• 
• 
• 
The PRAC considered Tysabri (natalizumab) in the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, initiated by the European Commission  
The PRAC reviewed all data presented by the MAH on the risk of PML in association with 
Tysabri, as well as other data made available during the procedure and the views expressed by 
the neurology scientific advisory group.  
The PRAC concluded that PML which is clinically asymptomatic at diagnosis represents more 
frequently localised disease in MRI, with a higher survival rate and better clinical outcome as 
compared to symptomatic PML. Early diagnosis of PML appears to be associated with improved 
outcomes. 
•  As a consequence, the PRAC recommended that more frequent MRI screening for PML (e.g. 
every 3-6 months) using an abbreviated MRI protocol should be considered in patients at 
higher risk of development of PML.  
• 
The PRAC also concluded that, in patients who have not received prior immunosuppressant 
therapy and are anti-JCV antibody positive, the level of anti-JCV antibody response (index) is 
associated with risk of developing PML. Current evidence suggests that risk increases with 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 30/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increasing antibody index but there is no clear cut off value. In patients treated for longer than 
2 years, the risk of PML is low at index values of 0.9 or less, and increases substantially at 
values above 1.5. 
• 
• 
The PRAC recommended that patients with low anti-JCV antibody index who have not received 
prior immunosuppressant therapy should be retested every six months once they reach the 2-
year treatment point. 
The PRAC also considered it necessary to update the existing educational material, particularly 
in relation to the risk estimates for development of PML in Tysabri-treated patients. 
In view of the above, the Committee considered that the benefit-risk balance of Tysabri remains 
favourable subject to the agreed amendments to the product information and additional risk 
minimisation measures.  
The Committee, as a consequence, recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisation for Tysabri. 
The agreed DHPC can be found enclosed to this report. 
8.  EPAR changes 
The EPAR will be updated following Commission Decision for this procedure under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. In particular the EPAR module 8 "steps after the authorisation" will be 
updated as follows: 
8.1.  Scope 
Pursuant to Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the European Commission requested on 29 
April 2015 the opinion of the European Medicines Agency further new scientific evidence on progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients treated with Tysabri. The CHMP was requested to 
assess the impact thereof on the benefit-risk balance of Tysabri and to give its recommendation 
whether the marketing authorisation of this product should be maintained, varied, suspended or 
revoked. 
As the request results from the evaluation of data resulting from pharmacovigilance activities, the 
CHMP opinion should be adopted on the basis of a recommendation of the Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee. 
8.2.  Summary 
Please refer to the assessment report:  
Tysabri EMEA/H/A-20/1416/C/000603/0083 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 31/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
Alroughani RA et al. Natalizumab treatment for multiple sclerosis: Middle East and North Africa regional 
recommendations for patient selection and monitoring. BMC Neurol. 2014 Feb 12; 14:27  
Basnyat P et al: Association between soluble L-selectin and anti-JCV antibodies in natalizumab-treated 
relapsing-remitting MS patients. Mult Scler Relat Disord. 2015 Jul;4(4):334-8. doi 
Bhan V et al: Anti-JC Virus Antibody Prevalence in Canadian MS Patients.Can J Neurol Sci. 2014 
Nov;41(6):748-52 
Berger JR et al PML diagnostic criteria: consensus statement from the AAN Neuroinfectious Disease 
Section. Neurology. 2013 Apr 9;80(15):1430-8 
Berger JR et al: JC Virus Antibody Status Underestimates Infection Rates, Ann Neurol. 2013 July ; 
74(1): 84–90 
Blair NF, Brew BJ, Halpern JP. Natalizumab-associated PML identified in the presymptomatic phase 
using MRI surveillance. Neurology 2012;78:507–508 
Bloomgren G, Richman S, Hotermans C, et al. Risk of Natalizumab-Associated Progressive Multifocal 
Leukoencephalopathy. N Engl J Med 2012;366: 1870{80. 
Brew BJ et al. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and other forms of JC virus disease. Nat Rev 
Neurol (2010) 6:667–79. doi:10.1038/nrneurol.2010.164 
Chalkias S et al: JC virus reactivation during prolonged natalizumab monotherapy for multiple 
sclerosis. Ann Neurol (2014) 75:925–34. doi:10.1002/ana.24148 
Clausi V et al: Markers of JC virus infection in patients with multiple sclerosis under natalizumab 
therapy. Neurol Neuroimmunol Neuroinflamm 2015; 2:e58;doi: 10.1212/NXL0000000000000058 
da Silva AM et al: JCV epidemiology in MS (JEMS)--epidemiology of anti-JCV antibody prevalence in 
multiple sclerosis patients--Portuguese data. J Neurol Sci. 2014 Feb 15;337(1-2):119-22  
Dong-Si T et al Predictors of survival and functional outcomes in natalizumab-associated progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy, J Neurovirol, 2015, DOI 10.1007/s13365-0316-4 
Dong-SI T, Richman S. Wattjes MP et al. Outcome and survival of asymptomatic PML in natalizumab-
treated MS patients. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2014 Oct;1(10):755-64. 
Fernandez O et al (2011b) Spanish consensus on the use of natalizumab (Tysabri(®)) - 2013. 
Neurologia (Barcelona, Spain) Neurologia. 2015 Jun;30(5):302-314. 
Frohman EM et al: JC virus in CD34+ and CD19+ cells in patients with multiple sclerosis treated with 
natalizumab. JAMA Neurol (2014) 71:596–602. doi:10.1001/jamaneurol.2014.63 
Hadjigeorgiou GM et al: A network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials for comparing the 
effectiveness and safety profile of treatments with marketing authorizations for relapsing multiple 
sclerosis, J Clin Pharm Ther 2013; 38: 433-439 
Gheuens S et 2012: Simultaneous PML-IRIS after discontinuation odf natalizumab in a patient with MS. 
Neurology 2012: 78:1390-1393 
Havia J et al: Unusual natalizumab-associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopaphy staring in 
the brainstem. J Neurol 2014: 261: 232-234 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 32/34 
 
 
 
 
 
Iacobaeus E et al: Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid and cerebrospinal fluid cells from patients with 
multiple sclerosis for detection of JC virus DNA. Mult Scler (2009) 15:28–35. 
doi:10.1177/1352458508096870 
Kuhle J, Gosert R, Kappos L et al. Management and outcome of CSF-JC virus PCRnegative PML in a 
natalizumab-treated patient with MS. Neurology. 2011 Dec 6;77(23):2010-6. 
Lee P et al: A second-generation ELISA (STRATIFY JCVTM DxSelectTM) for detection of JC virus 
antibodies in human serum and plasma to support progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy risk 
stratification. J Clin Virol (2013) 57:141–6. doi:10.1016/j.jcv.2013.02.002 
Mc Govern EM and Hennessy MJ: Asymptomatic progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy associated 
with natalizumab. J Neurol 2013; 260: 665-667 
McGuigan C et al. Stratification and monitoring of natalizumab-associated progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy risk: recommendations from an expert group. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 
2016 Feb;87(2):117-125 
Mentzer D et al: Case definition for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy following treatment 
with monoclonal antibodies. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2012 Sep;83(9):927-33 
Monaco MC et: JC virus infection of hematopoietic progenitor cells, primary B lymphocytes, and 
tonsillar stromal cells: implications for viral latency. J Virol (1996) 70:7004–12 
Phan-Ba R, Belachew S, Outteryck O, et al. The earlier, the smaller, the better for natalizumab-
associated PML: in MRI vigilance veritas? Neurology 2012;79:1067–1069. 
Phan-Ba R, Lommers E, Tshibanda L, et al. MRI preclinical detection and asymptomatic course of a 
progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML) under natalizumab therapy. J Neurol Neurosurg 
Psychiatry 2012;83:224–226. 
Plavina T et al: Anti-JC Virus Antibody Levels in Serum or Plasma Further Define Risk of Natalizumab-
Associated Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy. Ann Neurol 2014; 76:802-812 
Richert N, et al. Imaging findings for PML in natalizumab-treated MS patients. Mult Scler 
2012;18(Suppl 4):27. P99. 
Rovira À, Wattjes MP, Tintoré M, Tur C, Yousry TA, Sormani MP, De Stefano N, Filippi M, Auger C, 
Rocca MA, Barkhof F, Fazekas F, Kappos L, Polman C, Miller D, Montalban X; MAGNIMS study group. 
Evidence-based guidelines: MAGNIMS consensus guidelines on the use of MRI in multiple sclerosis-
clinical implementation in the diagnostic process. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Aug;11(8):471-82 
Schwab N et al: L-selectin is a possible biomarker for individual PML risk in natalizumab-treated MS 
patients. Neurology. 2013 Sep 3;81(10):865-71 
Sørensen PS et al: Risk stratification for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in patients treated 
with natalizumab. Mult Scler (2012) 18:143–52. doi:10.1177/1352458511435105 
Spadaro M et al: Natalizumab treatment reduces L-selectin (CD62L) in CD4+ T cells. Journal 
Neuroinflamm 2015: 12: 146ff 
Stüve O et al: Immunologic, clinical, and radiologic status 14 months after cessation of natalizumab 
therapy. Neurology 2009: 72: 392-401 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 33/34 
 
 
 
 
 
Tornatore C et al:  Detection of JC virus DNA in peripheral lymphocytes from patients with and without 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Ann Neurol (1992) 31:454–62. 
doi:10.1002/ana.410310426 
Van Pesch V et al: Safety and efficacy of natalizumab in Belgian multiple sclerosis patients: subgroup 
analysis of the natalizumab observational program. Acta Neurol Belg 2014; 114:167-178 
Vermersch P et al: Clinical outcomes of natalizumab –associated progressive mutifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. Neurology 2011:76:1697-1704 
Villar L et al: Intrathecal synthesis of oligoclonal IgM against myelin lipids predicts an aggressive 
disease course in MS. J Clin Invest 2005: 11(5): 187-194 
Villar L et al: Lipid-specific immunoglobulin m bands in cerebrospinal fluid are associated with a 
reduced risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy during treatment with 
natalizumab. Ann neurol 2015; 77(3): 447-457 
Warnke C et al: Cerebrospinal fluid JC Virus antibody index for diagnosis of natalizumab- associated 
progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy. Ann Neurol 2014: 76: 792-801 
Warnke C et al: CD34+ progenitor cells mobilized by natalizumab are not a relevant reservoir for JC 
virus. Mult Scler (2011) 17:151–6. doi:10.1177/135245851038583439 
Wattjes MP, Vennegoor A, Mostert Jop, et al. Diagnosis of asymptomatic natalizumab associated PML: 
are we between a rock and a hard place? J Neurol. 2014 Jun;261(6):1139- 43. 
Wattjes MP, Wijburg MT, Vennegoor A, Witte BI, de Vos M, Richert ND, Uitdehaag BM, Barkhof F, 
Killestein J; Dutch-Belgian Natalizumab-associated PML study group. MRI characteristics of early PML-
IRIS after natalizumab treatment in patients with MS. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Sep 14. 
Wattjes MP, Rovira À, Miller D, Yousry TA, Sormani MP, de Stefano MP, Tintoré M, Auger C, Tur C, 
Filippi M, Rocca MA, Fazekas F, Kappos L, Polman C, Frederik Barkhof, Xavier Montalban; MAGNIMS 
study group. Evidence-based guidelines: MAGNIMS consensus guidelines on the use of MRI in multiple 
sclerosis--establishing disease prognosis and monitoring patients. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 
Oct;11(10):597-606. 
Wattjes MP, Vennegoor A, Steenwijk MD, de Vos M, Killestein J, van Oosten BW, Mostert J, Siepman 
DA, Moll W, van Golde AE, Frequin ST, Richert ND, Barkhof F. MRI pattern in asymptomatic 
natalizumab-associated PML. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Jul;86(7):793-8Yousry TA et al. 
Magnetic resonance imaging pattern in natalizumab-associated progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. Ann Neurol. 2012 Nov;72(5):779-87. doi: 10.1002/ana.23676 
Assessment report  
EMA/PRAC/171485/2016  
Page 34/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
