London, 18 February 2010 
Doc. Ref No.: EMA/125079/2010 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Tyverb 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
lapatinib 
Procedure No. EMA/H/C/795/II/0004 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 74 18 86 13 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1.1 
Introduction 
Lapatinib (Tyverb) is an orally-administered, small molecule, reversible inhibitor of the intracellular 
tyrosine  kinase  domains  of  Epidermal  Growth  Factor  Receptor  (EGFR)  and  of  Human  Epidermal 
Receptor Type 2 (HER2) or ErbB2. Lapatinib is a member of the 4-anilinoquinazoline class of kinase 
inhibitors.  Members  of  this  class  of  molecules  have  been  shown  to  bind  to  the  ATP  binding  site  of 
protein  kinases  and  compete  with  the  ATP  substrate.  This  blocks  receptor  phosphorylation  and 
activation, preventing subsequent downstream signalling events. The rationale for lapatinib use as an 
anticancer entity is that the blockade of the tyrosine kinase activity of ErbB1 or ErbB2 is expected to 
block the transforming activity that results from overexpression of these receptors. 
In  June  2008,  lapatinib  was  granted  a  conditional  Marketing  Authorisation  (MA)  in  the  EU  for 
combination with capecitabine in the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer 
whose tumours overexpress ErbB2 (HER2). Patients should have progressive disease following prior 
therapy which must include anthracyclines and taxanes and therapy with trastuzumab in the metastatic 
setting.  
The  recommended  dosage  for  the  approved  indication  is  1250  mg  lapatinib  daily,  continuously,  in 
combination  with  capecitabine  2000  mg/m2/day  taken  in  2  doses  12  hours  apart  on  days  1-14  in  a 
21-day cycle.  
In  this  application,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  initially  proposed  to  extend  the 
indication as follows: 
“Tyverb in combination with an aromatase inhibitor is indicated for the treatment of patients 
with  hormone  receptor-positive  metastatic  breast  cancer  which  overexpresses  the  ErbB2 
(HER2) receptor.” 
The MAH proposed to amend SPC sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 accordingly. Minor editorial 
changes were also made to the SPC. Consequently, the MAH also applied for an additional pack-size 
of  84  tablets  reflecting  the  proposed  daily  dose  for  this  indication.  SPC  section  6.5,  labelling  and 
section  6  of  the  PL  have  been  updated  in  this  respect.  Furthermore,  the  Package  Leaflet  has  been 
updated in line with the SPC revisions. Annex II has been revised to reflect the latest approved RMP 
version. 
This  variation  application  for  lapatinib  is  based  on  the  results  from  two  clinical  studies,  one  pivotal 
Phase III study and a supportive Phase I study, in both the medicinal product was combined with an 
aromatase inhibitor, letrozole. 
The daily dose of lapatinib for the proposed new indication in combination with an aromatase inhibitor 
is 1500 mg (i.e., six 250 mg tablets), in contrast to the currently authorised indication of lapatinib (in 
combination with capecitabine) for which it is 1250 mg. There are currently three approved aromatase 
inhibitors, letrozole, anastrozole and exemestane, which work by inhibiting oestrogen biosynthesis. 
In addition, the dosing schedule proposed for the new indication (i.e., six 250 mg tablets/day) initially 
warranted from the MAH point of view the introduction of two new pack sizes (containing 84 and 168 
tablets  in  total),  which  will  provide  patients  with  exactly  14-days  and  28-days  supply,  respectively. 
The  respective  changes  related  to  this  additional  pack  size  were  part  of  this  Type  II  variation 
application. However, during the procedure the MAH revised this request for only an additional pack 
size of 84 tablets. Consequently regarding the additional pack size a change to SPC section 6.5 was 
suggested and initially a new separate Patient Information leaflet (PIL) for the Tyverb plus aromatase 
inhibitor indication has been proposed by the MAH for inclusion in the pack. 
During the Type II variation procedure the MAH revised its initial position and decided not to pursue 
with  separate  package  leaflets  for  lapatinib  (5  tablets/day)  /  with  capecitabine  and  lapatinib 
(6 tablets/day) / with an aromatase inhibitor. 
Requests for Supplementary Information were adopted during the July 2009 and October 2009 CHMP 
meetings.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Quality aspects 
The dosing schedule proposed for the new indication (i.e., six 250 mg tablets/day) warranted in view 
of the MAH the introduction of two new pack sizes (containing 84 and 168 tablets in total), which will 
provide  patients  with  exactly  14-days  and  28-days  supply,  respectively.  However,  during  the 
procedure the MAH revised this request for only an additional pack size of 84 tablets. 
No  new  quality  data  were  provided  in  this  variation  application.  The  qualitative  and  quantitative 
formula remains the same. The container/closure contact materials and the size of the blister pockets 
remain  unchanged,  and  only  the  number  of  blister  pockets/strip  has  increased.  Therefore,  the  MAH 
considered that the existing ongoing stability data support the approved drug substance retest date and 
drug product shelf life, and that no additional stability data are required. 
Section 6.5 of the SPC as well as the Labelling has been updated to include the new pack size.  
In general, the CHMP agreed to the MAH’s request to introduce only one new pack size of 84 tablets 
and considered the proposed changes to the Product Information acceptable. 
1.3  Nonclinical aspects 
With this application, the MAH has submitted a nonclinical Overview discussing the rationale for the 
new indication and relevant issues on pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology mainly based 
on  data  from  the  original  marketing  authorisation  application.  One  new  pharmacology  study 
(non-GLP) and a recently completed in vitro haemolytic potential study (conducted according to GLP) 
have been included in the submission and are discussed below.  
Nonclinical studies with the combination of lapatinib with aromatase inhibitors were not conducted. 
1.3.1  Pharmacology  
The pharmacological rationale for the combined use of lapatinib with aromatase inhibitors is based on 
the observation that, in addition to its ability to down-regulate the AKT pathway and up-regulate the 
FOXO3A subpathway, which correlates with its efficacy, lapatinib induces ESR1 and PGR expression 
in  breast  cancer  cell  lines  which  express  moderate  basal  levels  of  these  receptors.  This  effect 
highlights  a  receptor  cross-talk,  where  the  AKT  pathway  would  be  down  regulating  the  hormone-
related  pathways.  By  down-regulating  the  AKT  pathway,  the  hormone-related  pathways  would 
therefore  be  expected  to  be  up-regulated  as  a  result  of  lapatinib  action,  resulting  in  increased 
sensitivity  to  anti-hormonal  therapy.  Genes  involved  in  cell  cycle  control,  glycolysis  and  fatty  acid 
metabolism are also differentially affected by lapatinib. 
Primary Pharmacology supportive of the new indication 
The study “Delineation of Molecular Mechanisms of sensitivity to GW572016F in Breast Cancer Cell 
Lines using Global Gene Expression Profiles” intended to provide the proof of concept related to the 
proposed  combined  therapy  of  lapatinib  with  letrozole,  by  studying  the  cascade  components  of 
lapatinib mechanism of action, including the effect of lapatinib on the expression of estrogen (ER) and 
progestagen  (PGR)  receptors  in  human  breast  cancer  cell  lines  responsive  and  low  responsive  to 
lapatinib. 
Phosphoprotein  and  microarray  analyses  were  used  to  carry  out  targeted  pathway  studies  of 
phosphorylation  and  gene  expression  changes  in  human  breast  cancer  cell  lines  in  the  presence  or 
absence of GW572016F.  
Studies  were  performed  in  four  breast  cancer  cell  lines,  BT474  and  SKBr3,  which  are  lapatinib 
responsive, and MDA-MB-468 and T47D, which are lapatinib non-responsive.  
Results 
Responsive cell lines, BT474 and SKBr3 
These cells constitutively over-express ErbB2 and demonstrated an IC50 for lapatinib of 25 or 32 nM, 
respectively. ErB2 over-expression was demonstrated in the cell lines.  
 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Both  cell  lines  exhibited  strong  differential  effects  on  multiple  genes  in  the  AKT  pathway. 
After  12  h  exposure  to  1.0  μM  lapatinib,  AKT1,  MAPK9,  HSPCA,  RAK1  and  CCND1 
transcripts  were  down-regulated  7  to  25-fold  in  responsive  BT474  and  SKBr3  cells.  In  the 
figure below, is illustrated the effect obtained on AKT1 expression, in all cell lines used. Only 
in ErB2 expressing cells the AKT1 was up-regulated by lapatinib. 
  The  proapoptotic  gene  FOXO3A,  which  is  negatively  regulated  by  AKT,  was  up-regulated 
7-and 25-fold in SKBr3 and BT474 cells, respectively. 
  Phosphorylated  Akt  and  Akt-mediated  phosphorylation  of  FOXO3A  also  decreased  in 
responsive breast cancer cell lines exposed to lapatinib.  
  Gene  expression  profiling  also  revealed  that  lapatinib  stimulates  expression  of  the  estrogen 
and progesterone receptors and modulates expression of genes involved in cell cycle control, 
glycolysis and fatty acid metabolism.  
Nonresponsive cell lines MDA-MB-468 and T47D  
  These cells express a low basal level of ErbB2 and demonstrate IC50 values in the μM range. 
 
In  contrast  to  the  observed  in  responsive  cells,  lapatinib  weakly  down-regulated  the  AKT 
pathway (less than 5-fold down-regulation of most genes in the pathway). 
In  BT474  and  T47D  cells,  which  express  moderate  basal  levels  of  the  estrogen  and 
progesterone receptors, 1.0 μM lapatinib induced expression 7- to 11-fold. 
 
 3
 
 
 
 
Discussion 
The CHMP commented that the study results are not totally consentaneous with the theory developed 
by  the  MAH  as  a  basis  of  the  association  of  lapatinib  with  letrozole  or  other  aromatase  inhibitor. 
Indeed, while in BT474 cells, both oestrogen and progestagen receptors showed increased expression 
as a consequence of lapatinib treatment, in SKBr3 cells, which are also ErB2 expressing cells, only a 
modest increase in oestrogen receptor was observed without change in progestagen receptor. On the 
other  hand,  in  T47D  cells,  which  express  a  low  basal  level  of  ErB2,  and  are  low  responders  to 
lapatinib, considerable over-expression of both receptors was induced by lapatinib. Therefore, if these 
in  vitro  results  can  be  applied  to  the  in  vivo  situation,  it  would  be  expected  that  while  in  a  tumour 
based  on  BT474-like  cells  it  would  make  sense  to  associate  lapatinib  with  aromatase  inhibitor 
treatments,  such  might  not  be  the  case  for  a  tumour  based  on  SKBr3-like  cells.  In  addition,  while 
lapatinib  would  not  seem  appropriate  to  treat  a  T47D-like  cell  based  tumour,  it  still  was  able  to 
promote  a  high  expression  of  oestrogen  and  progestagen  receptors.  A  lack  of  understanding  on  the 
mechanism for these “inconsistencies” has been recognised by the MAH.  
In the response to the RSI, the MAH has provided an adequate clarification. A stimulatory effect on 
ER and PGF is dependent on a basal expression of these genes, and may be observed also in cell lines 
with a low expression of ERbB2 and a low response to lapatinib. It is agreed that a benefit from the 
combination  of  lapatinib  and  letrozole  is  only  clearly  to  be  expected  in  ErbB2-positive  hormone-
receptor positive breast cancer. 
1.3.2  Pharmacokinetics 
No new data on pharmacokinetics have been submitted with this variation application. The nonclinical 
Overview  presented  a  discussion  of  the  potential  for  drug  interactions  between  lapatinib  and  the 
approved aromatase inhibitors. The analysis performed by the MAH suggested that there may be a low 
potential  for  pharmacokinetic  interactions  between  lapatinib  and  the  aromatase  inhibitors  addressed, 
including letrozole. For further evaluation please refer to the section clinical pharmacology.  
1.3.3  Toxicology 
Lapatinib  and  the  three  currently  approved  aromatase  inhibitors,  letrozole,  anastrozole  and 
exemestane,  have  been  well  studied  individually  both  clinically  and  toxicologically.  No  nonclinical 
studies  were  conducted  with  the  combination  of  lapatinib  with  any  of  the  marketed  aromatase 
inhibitors. The principal findings in repeat dose toxicity studies with lapatinib and aromatase inhibitors 
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
are attributed to exaggerated pharmacology. These include epithelial effects with lapatinib, and effects 
on the adrenals and reproductive organs (atrophy and/or hyperplasia) with aromatase inhibitors. The 
effects on reproductive organs are probably due to inhibition of estrogen synthesis due to aromatase 
inhibition and the resulting lack of negative feedback on the pituitary.  
Hepatic  and  renal  effects  have  been  seen  with  both  lapatinib  and  some  aromatase  inhibitors.  The 
hepatotoxicity  of  lapatinib  has  been  raised  already  from  the  clinical  use.  The  hepatocellular 
hypertrophy seen in rats with aromatase inhibitors is most probably a result of enzyme induction and 
the renal tubular changes may relate to interference with steroid synthesis. Hepatic and renal function 
will  need  to  be  routinely  monitored  in  the  clinic,  and  therefore  no  additional  nonclinical  studies  are 
considered necessary to investigate possible interactions with the combination(s). 
The impurity specifications for the drug product and drug substance have not altered since the initial 
application for lapatinib. However, the indicated maximum dose of the compound has increased from 
1250  mg  to  1500  mg.  As  such,  a  re-assessment  of  the  impurity  profile  has  been  undertaken.  All 
specified  impurities  remain  qualified.  4-(3-fluorobenzyloxy)-3-chloroaniline  (GW397339),  a  starting 
material  in  the  synthesis  of  lapatinib,  has  been  shown  to  be  genotoxic  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo. 
GW397339  is  present  in  lapatinib  drug  substance  at  levels  resulting  in  exposures  greater  than  the 
impurities 
current  guideline  Threshold  of  Toxicological  Concern 
(1.5 g/day/person).  At  the  current  specification  limit  for  this  impurity  (0.0004%),  the  increased 
recommended  lapatinib  dose  of  1500 mg/day  would  result  in  a  maximum  daily  GW397339  dose  of 
6 g/day; 0.12 µg/kg to a 50 kg patient. 
for  genotoxic 
(TTC) 
In vitro haemolytic potential in Rat, Dog and Human Peripheral Blood 
The study was conducted as a support of intravenous administration of different solutions of lapatinib. 
Rat, dog and human blood were tested to evaluate the potential for haemolysis.  
Lapatinib showed no potential for haemolysis in dog and human blood. Mild haemolysis was seen in 
rat  blood,  but  only  when  administered  with  30%  (w/v)  captisol  in  25  mM  citrate,  approximately 
pH 5.0.  This  vehicle  also  demonstrated  haemolysis  in  the  absence  of  lapatinib.  Therefore,  lapatinib 
itself demonstrated no haemolytic potential in any species tested. In all species studied, treatment of 
blood samples with the positive control material saponin and water induced substantial haemolysis. 
Mild haemolysis was evident in rat blood for formulations of lapatinib up to 1.0mg/mL in 30% (w/v) 
Captisol in 25mM Citrate, approximately pH 5.0 (up to 9.7%) and with the vehicle alone (13.3%). The 
test was therefore deemed positive for this vehicle in rats. 
Minimal  or  no  haemolysis  was  evident  in  human  blood  for  formulations  of  lapatinib  of  up  to 
1.0 mg/mL  in  30%  (w/v)  Captisol  in  25mM  Citrate,  approximately  pH  5.0,  or  in  rat,  dog  or  human 
blood  for  formulations  of  GW572016  in  10%  (w/v)  aqueous  Captisol  at  1  mg/mL  or  with  either 
vehicle  alone.  The  test  was  therefore  deemed  negative  in  dogs  and  humans  for  all  formulations  and 
vehicles  tested,  and  in  rats  for  formulations  of  lapatinib  in  10%  (w/v)  aqueous  Captisol  or  with  the 
vehicle  alone.  The  test  was  deemed  positive  in  rats  for  all  formulations  in  30%  (w/v)  Captisol  in 
25mM Citrate approximately pH 5.0 (up to 9.7%) and with the vehicle alone (13.3%). 
1.3.4  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Lapatinib  250  mg  tablets  were  approved  in  EU  for  use  in  combination  with  capecitabine  for  the 
treatment  of  patients  with  advanced  or  metastatic  breast  cancer  whose  tumours  overexpress  HER2 
(ErbB2).  Patients  should  have  progressive  disease  following  prior  therapy  which  must  include 
anthracyclines and taxanes and therapy with trastuzumab in the metastatic setting. 
The MAH proposed with the current submission to extend the indication of lapatinib tablets 250 mg to 
include its use in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of patients with hormone 
receptor-positive  metastatic  breast  cancer  which  overexpresses  the  HER2  (ErbB2)  receptor.  The 
incidence  of  patients  with  hormone  receptor-positive  breast  cancer  whose  tumours  overexpress  the 
HER2 (ErbB2) receptor is significantly higher than the incidence of the currently approved indication. 
Thus, the proposed new indication represents a significant increase in the extent of lapatinib use and a 
 5
 
 
 
further  assessment  of  the  environmental  risk  posed  by  its  use  is  therefore  required  according  to  the 
CHMP ERA guidance [EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00]. 
A full Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) undertaken for lapatinib was previously submitted and 
reviewed  as  a  part  of  the  original  marketing  authorisation  application.  The  original  ERA  has  been 
reviewed  and  as  a  consequence  of  this  assessment  the  MAH  has  agreed  to  perform  a  number  of 
additional studies: OECD305: Bioconcentration study, OECD305: Bioconcentration study, OECD210: 
Early  life  stage  test  on  fish,  OECD  216:  Nitrogen  transformation  test,  OECD  307:  Aerobic  and 
anaerobic  transformation  in  soil,  OECD  308:  Aerobic  and  anaerobic  transformation  in  aquatic 
sediment systems, OECD208: Terrestrial plants growth test, OECD 218: Sediment water chironomus 
riparius toxicity test, ISO 11267: Collembola, reproduction test. These data have been included into a 
new ERA, which was submitted in response to the Follow-Up Measure FUM005 in May 2009. This 
FUM has been assessed and the CHMP considered the FUM to be fulfilled. In the assessment of this 
FUM the CHMP concluded that the ERA is supporting also this new proposed indication. 
1.3.5  Conclusion on Nonclinical Aspects 
The main nonclinical aspects of lapatinib have been previously evaluated in the context of the original 
marketing  authorisation  application,  including  post  approval  studies  submitted.  Only  two  (in  vitro) 
additional  studies  were  submitted  as  a  support  of  the  current  extension  of  indication,  one 
pharmacology study and one toxicology study. The pharmacology study has been intended to provide 
the plausibility for the proposed combined use of lapatinib with aromatase inhibitors. While the impact 
of lapatinib on different cellular cascades involved in cell division could be shown (e.g. AKT, FOX3) 
as  up-regulation  or-down  regulation,  with  different  profile  in  ErB2  expressing  and  low  expressing 
cells, a lower consistency was observed in relation to the effect on oestrogen and progestagen receptor 
expression. Indeed, a relevant induction of both receptors expression could be observed only in one of 
the two human breast cancer cell lines responsive to lapatinib (high ErB2 expression) while it was also 
observed in one of the two poor lapatinib responsive cell lines (low ErB2 expression). In the response 
to  the  RSI,  the  MAH  provided  an  adequate  clarification.  A  stimulatory  effect  on  ER  and  PGF  is 
dependent  on  a  basal  expression  of  these  genes,  and  may  be  observed  also  in  cell  lines  with  a  low 
expression of ErbB2 and a low response to lapatinib. It is agreed that a benefit from the combination 
of lapatinib and letrozole is only clearly to be expected in ErbB2-positive hormone-receptor positive 
breast cancer. 
The  potential  for  pharmacokinetic  interactions  between  lapatinib  and  aromatase  inhibitors  has  been 
identified as low. Nonclinical studies were not conducted to address this potential and it is expected 
that further information will be generated in the clinical setting.  
One additional toxicology study addressing the haemolytic profile of different lapatinib solutions to be 
used  intravenously  was  also  submitted.  No  relevant  concern  was  raised  from  the  outcome  with  the 
different solutions in relation to human blood.  
The previously reported toxicology package for lapatinib is acceptable for this new indication and the 
higher dose. The absence of combination pharmacology or toxicology studies with the combination of 
lapatinib and aromatase inhibitor is sufficiently justified. For the genotoxic impurity GW397339 it was 
stated in the CHMP AR for the first indication that the level above TTC was acceptable, but that this 
may  not  be  the  case  if  lapatinib  is  developed  for  a  more  benign  indication.  For  the  indication  now 
applied  for,  exceeding  TTC  remains  acceptable.  The  potential  for  toxicological  interactions  of 
lapatinib  and  aromatase  inhibitors  was  not  studied.  In  view  of  the  existing  clinical  experience  with 
both components, potential interactions will be addressed in the clinical setting and nonclinical studies 
are  not  considered  needed.  This  applies  also  to  the  potential  for  hepatotoxicity  by  both  types  of 
medicinal products which will demand clinical monitoring.  
In conclusion, no additional nonclinical studies are considered necessary to be conducted as a support 
of  the  combined  use  of  lapatinib  with  aromatase  inhibitors  in  the  indication  proposed,  and,  from  a 
nonclinical perspective, there are no objections to the use of the proposed combination.  
1.4  Clinical aspects 
The MAH stated that the clinical trials submitted in the application were conducted according to GCP. 
 6
 
 
 
 
The  clinical  program  supporting  the  present  application  conforms  to  the  conditions  previewed  in 
CPMP/EWP/2330/99 for applications with one pivotal trial. 
The basis for this application is the clinical study EGF30008 and supportive data are provided from a 
Phase I dose-finding study of letrozole plus lapatinib (EGF10030).  
Primary 
endpoint 
Optimally 
tolerated 
regimen 
and safety, 
tolerability, 
PK 
Investigator 
assessed 
PFS in 
HER2 
positive 
population 
Posology 
Subjects 
Mean 
age 
56.1 
(31-
73) 
Diagnosis 
Incl criteria 
Postmenopausal 
women mainly 
breast (n=18) 
and ovarian 
cancer (n=16) 
Duration 
11.9 -18.8, 
weeks 
39 
12 OTR  
7 OTR 2  
20 PK 
642 
combination 
63.1 
(31-
95) 
Until 
progression 
Postmenopausal 
women. 
Hormone 
receptor 
positive. 
First-line 
treatment 
Study  Design 
EGF 
10030 
Phase 1  
open label 
No of 
centres 
3 
3 cohorts 
EGF 
30008 
Phase 3 
double 
blind 
212 
Lapatinib 
1250 mg/ 
letrozole 
2,5 mg 
Lapatinib 
1500 mg/ 
Letrozole 
2,5 mg 
Lapatinib 
1500 mg/ 
Letrozole 
2,5 mg 
Letrozole 
2,5 mg 
644 
monotherapy 
219 HER2 
positive 
111 
Combination 
108 
monotherapy 
OTR=optimally tolerated regimen, PK=pharmacokinetics 
1.4.1  Clinical pharmacology 
There  were  no  new  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided  with  the  current  application,  but  the  MAH 
discussed  potential  interactions  between  lapatinib  and  aromatase  inhibitors  based  on  previously 
submitted studies and literature data.  
Lapatinib  is  eliminated  mainly  through  metabolism  by  CYP3A4/5  with  a  minor  contribution  from 
CYP2C19  and  CYP2C8.  The  potent  CYP3A4  inhibitor  ketokonazole  increased  lapatinib  AUC  by 
3.6-fold. 
In  in  vitro  studies  with  lapatinib,  the  most  significant  CYP  inhibition  observed  was  with  CYP2C8 
(Ki = 0.6  M)  and  CYP3A4  (Ki  =  4  M).  Clinically,  lapatinib  has  a  weak  interaction  with  the 
CYP2C8  substrate  paclitaxel  (23%  increase  in  paclitaxel  AUC)  and  a  moderate  interaction  with  the 
sensitive CYP3A4 substrate oral midazolam (45% increase in midazolam AUC) .Therefore, the extent 
of an interaction through lapatinib inhibiting CYP metabolism of AIs would not be expected to exceed 
the clinical interaction with midazolam.  
Lapatinib  is  an  inhibitor  of  the  transporters  organic  anion  transporter  polypeptide  1B1  (OATP1B1), 
P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). The role of these transporters in the 
disposition of aromatase inhibitors has not been reported.  
Letrozole 
The pharmacokinetic interaction between lapatinib and letrozole was evaluated in a sub-study of the 
EGF  100030  dose-escalation  study.  The  interaction  sub-study  has  already  been  discussed  in  the 
assessment report for the renewal procedure EMEA/H/C/795/R/02.   
In  this  study,  once  the  optimally  tolerated  regimen  (OTR)  for  the  combination  of  lapatinib  and 
letrozole had been determined, 19 additional subjects were enrolled to profile the pharmacokinetics of 
lapatinib  alone,  letrozole  alone,  and  lapatinib  in  combination  with  letrozole  at  the  OTR  doses,  i.e. 
1500 mg  lapatinib  and  2.5  mg  letrozole.  Although  the  number  of  subjects  was  relatively  small,  the 
 7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study  design  appears  appropriate.  Letrozole  and  lapatinib,  respectively,  was  dosed  to  steady  state 
before their effect on the other substance was evaluated. There were no statistically significant effects 
of either letrozole on lapatinib or of lapatinib on letrozole in this study. The AUC ratio (90% CI) for 
letrozole was 0.94 (0.79-1.11) and for lapatinib 0.84 (0.63-1.13). The MAH’s conclusion that there is 
no  clinically  relevant  pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  letrozole  and  lapatinib  at  the  intended 
combination dosage is endorsed. 
Anastrozole 
Anastrozole  has  been  reported  to  moderately  inhibit  CYP3A4  (Ki  =  10  M)  and  CYP2C8  in  vitro. 
However, the clinical concentration of anastrozole (0.3 M) is approximately 30-fold lower than the 
inhibitory  potency  and  unlikely  to  cause  a  significant  pharmacokinetic  interaction  through  either 
CYP3A4 or CYP2C8.  
Anastrozole  is  eliminated  mainly  by  hepatic  metabolism,  partly  via  glucuronidation.  Approximately 
10% of the total clearance of anastrozole occurs by renal elimination. Lapatinib does not inhibit UGT 
metabolism, therefore the clearance of anastrozole through glucuronidation should remain unaffected.  
The effect lapatinib would have on the N-dealkylation and hydroxylation pathways are unknown since 
the specific enzymes involved in that pathway have not been reported. The role that the transporters 
OATP1B1, Pgp and BCRP may have in the disposition of anastrozole has not been reported.  
Examestane 
Exemestane does not inhibit any of the major CYP enzymes (CYP1A2, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4) in 
vitro and is unlikely to alter the pharmacokinetics of lapatinib through CYP inhibition.  
Exemestane  is  highly  lipophilic  and  absorption  or  distribution  is  not  limited  by  permeability,  which 
suggests  an  interaction  through  transporters  may  be  limited.  Exemestane  is  eliminated  mainly  by 
hepatic  metabolism  via  CYP3A4  and  aldoketoreductases.  Clinically,  ketoconazole  shows  no 
significant effect on exemestane pharmacokinetics, and consequently the effect lapatinib would have 
on this pathway of elimination should be negligible. The effect of lapatinib on aldoketoreductases has 
not been characterised. 
Conclusion 
The MAH has carefully discussed the risk for pharmacokinetic interactions between lapatinib and the 
currently approved aromatase inhibitors based on their respective in vitro interaction potential and the 
elimination  pathways.  The  lack  of  interaction  with  letrozole  has  been  confirmed  in  a  clinical  study. 
Based on the elimination pathways and the lack of reports on significant impact of transporters in the 
disposition  of  anastrozole,  there  is  no  obvious  reason  to  expect  a  pharmacokinetic  interaction  with 
anastrozole or examestane. 
1.4.2  Clinical Efficacy 
1.4.2.1  Pivotal study EGF 30008 
The pivotal study EGF 30008 was initially planned to evaluate the combination letrozole/lapatinib vs. 
letrozole  in  a  hormone  receptor  positive  (HR+)  postmenopausal  breast  cancer  population  with 
metastatic  breast  cancer.  Due  to  external  data  on  lapatinib’s  mode  of  action  and  efficacy,  i.e.  that 
lapatinib mainly exerted its effect in HER2 positive patients, the population was expanded to ensure 
the size of this subpopulation. The recruitment of HER2 positive subjects was stable throughout the 
study.  
Study  EGF30008  was  a  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group,  multicentre, 
in  subjects  with 
Phase 
estrogen/progesterone receptor-positive advanced or metastatic breast cancer. This trial was conducted 
at  212  sites  in  29 countries  in  5  regions  (North  America,  Latin  America,  Western  Europe,  Eastern 
Europe and Asia Pacific) including 12 EU member countries, and enrolled 1286 subjects. The majority 
of the patients (57%) were recruited from Western and Eastern Europe. 
III  study  comparing 
letrozole  versus 
lapatinib  and 
letrozole 
Methods 
 8
 
 
 
 
The  inclusion  criteria  defined  a  typical  population  of  postmenopausal  women  with  metastatic  breast 
cancer,  in  good  performance  status  and  good  cardiac  condition,  without  age  restriction.  The  main 
inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study participants are listed below: 
Invasive breast cancer with Stage IV disease (locally advanced was allowed  until amendment 3)  
Main inclusion criteria: 
-  Post-menopausal women. 
- 
-  Measurable or non-measurable disease per RECIST. 
-  ER positive and/or PgR positive tumours (any assay; primary or secondary tumours) 
-  Subjects  had  archived  tumour  tissue  available  to  compare  tumour  response  with  intra-tumoural 
expression of EGFR and HER2.  
-  Adjuvant therapy with an aromatase inhibitor was allowed; however, must have ended more than 
1 year prior start of study therapy. 
-  Adjuvant  therapy  with  trastuzumab  was  allowed;  however,  must  have  ended  more  than  1  year 
prior (>12 months) to the start of study therapy. 
-  Cardiac ejection fraction within the institutional range of normal as measured by echocardiogram 
(ECHO) (or multi-gated acquisition [MUGA] scan.  
-  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS) of 0 or 1. 
Main exclusion criteria: 
-  Received  prior  chemotherapy,  endocrine 
therapy, 
immunotherapy,  biologic 
therapy  or 
anti-EGFR/HER2 therapy for advanced or metastatic disease. 
-  Bisphosphonate  therapy  for  bone  metastases  was  allowed;  however,  treatment  must  have  been 
initiated prior to the first dose of study therapy.  
Treatment 
The  treatment  groups  in  this  study  were  either  2.5  mg  letrozole  and  1500  mg  lapatinib  or  2.5  mg 
letrozole  and  placebo  on  a  daily  basis.  Lapatinib/placebo  was  provided  by  the  MAH  and  letrozole 
from  commercial  stock  and  reimbursed  by  MAH  except  in  the  US  and  partly  in  Russia  where  the 
MAH provided letrozole. 
One  dose  reduction  and  dose  delay  for  up  to  14  days  was  allowed  in  the  lapatinib  arm.  No  dose 
reductions and only 3 days delay were allowed for letrozole. 
Objectives 
The study was initially planned to include 760 patients in order to compare letrozole and lapatinib to 
letrozole  and  placebo  in  the  ITT  population.  During  the  study,  external  data  emerged  that  lapatinib 
mainly exerted its effect in HER2 positive population. According to amendment 3 the population was 
then  expanded  to  1280  patients  (October  2005).  In  amendment  4  (October  2007,  after  subject 
recruitment ended) the populations of interest were  decided to be the ITT population and the HER2 
positive population. Furthermore from this amendment the HER2-positive population was the primary 
population  of  interest.  The  planned  analyses  were  included  in  the  RAP,  dated  30  May  2008.  The 
blinding was kept until 10 October 2008. 
The primary objective was to evaluate and compare PFS (as assessed by the investigator) in subjects 
with  HER2-positive  advanced  or  metastatic  breast  cancer.  The  secondary  objectives  (all  based  on 
investigator assessment apart from OS) were as follows: 
-  To evaluate and compare PFS in the ITT population. 
-  To evaluate and compare the two treatment groups with respect to the following:  
- Overall survival (OS) 
- Overall response rate (ORR) [complete response (CR) and partial response(PR)] 
- Clinical  benefit  response  rate  (CBR)  (confirmed  CR  or  PR  or  stable  disease  (SD)  for  at  least 
6 months) 
- Time to response 
- Duration of response 
- Time to progression (TTP) 
- Incidence of brain metastases 
 9
 
- To  determine  the  qualitative  and  quantitative  toxicities  associated  with  oral  lapatinib  when 
administered with letrozole. 
- To evaluate and compare the two treatment groups with respect to change in quality of life (QOL) 
status, the change of QOL relative to baseline, and quality adjusted survival. 
- To compare  and correlate tumour response rates following lapatinib and letrozole therapy, with 
respect  to  baseline  and  on  treatment  serum  concentrations  of  EGFR  and  HER2.  Potentially, 
proteomic analysis was to be performed to detect other shed tumour proteins and identify changes 
in the protein profile, which correlate to treatment response and AEs. 
- To  characterize  the  subject  population  by  determination  of  intra-tumoural  expression  levels  of 
relevant  biomarkers  from  archived  tumour  tissue  such  as  EGFR,  HER2,  and  potentially  other 
biomarkers that are downstream of EGFR or HER2 receptors. 
- To compare and characterize the subject population who convert to HER2 status (using the serum 
HER2  collections  every  4 weeks  of  serum  data).  To  specifically look  at  the  time  to  conversion 
and the relationship to disease progression. 
- The  PGx  research  objective  investigated  the  relationship  between  genetic  variants  in  candidate 
genes  in  the host  and  the pharmacokinetics  of  lapatinib  and/or  the  relationship  between  genetic 
variants  in  select  candidate  genes  in  the  host  and  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  lapatinib.  The 
results of the PGx assessments will be reported separately. 
Comparator and experimental combination: 
The choice of comparator by the MAH was based on in vitro data suggesting that letrozole was a more 
potent inhibitor of oestrogen in tissues. The Phase I study EGF10030 showed, as expected, that there 
was no relevant pharmacokinetic interaction between lapatinib and letrozole, and that full therapeutic 
doses of both agents could be administered. As such, subjects in both treatment groups of EGF30008 
received the accepted standard of care, which is letrozole 2.5 mg administered orally daily.  
Therefore, eligible subjects were randomised to receive once daily oral treatment with either letrozole 
2.5 mg plus placebo (visually matching lapatinib tablets), or letrozole 2.5 mg plus lapatinib 1500 mg 
until disease progression or withdrawal from therapy (e.g., due to unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of 
consent). Randomization  (1:1) was stratified by site of disease (bone only versus soft tissue/visceral 
disease/other) and time since discontinuation of prior adjuvant endocrine therapy (6 months or none 
versus <6 months).   
Outcomes/endpoints  
Physical examination, lab-tests, assessment of AEs (NCI-CTC 3.0) and serum ErbB1 and HER2 were 
done  at  screening  and  every  4  weeks.  ECG  was  done  at  base-line.  Echocardiogram  or  MUGA  was 
followed  every  8  weeks.  Tumour  measurements,  which  at  screening  included  chest  and  abdominal 
CT/MRI and bone scan and, if clinically indicated, pelvic and head CT/MRI, were performed. Positive 
CT/MRI  scans  were  followed  every  12  weeks  and  bone  scans,  if  positive,  every  6  months.  QoL 
(FACT B) was followed every 12 weeks. After 108 weeks all assessments were done every 12 weeks 
except tumour measurements which were done every 6 months. 
There  were  specific  criteria  for  evaluating  cardiac  toxicity  and  hepatic  toxicity  (from  amendment  5, 
May 2008). 
Sample size 
The  initial  sample  size  760  was  based  on  assumptions  that  median  time  to  progression  would  be 
10 and 13 months in the letrozole and letrozole/lapatinib arms, respectively. With a one-sided type I 
error  of  2,5%,  there  was  a  90%  chance  to  detect  the  40%  increase  in  median  TTP  and  5%  loss  to 
follow  up.  With  protocol  amendment  3  it  was  decided  to  expand  the  population  to  ensure  statistical 
power for the HER2 positive subgroup. The assumptions for the HER2 positive subgroup was a 10 vs. 
15  months  TTP  for  letrozole/  letrozole  and  lapatinib,  respectively.  With  a  one-sided  type  I  error  of 
2.5%, there was a 80% chance to detect the 55% increase in median TTP and 5% loss to follow up. 
Altogether 218 HER2 subjects were needed in the study. About 20% of the subjects in the study were 
HER2 positive. 
 10
 
Randomisation and blinding 
The  study  was  double-blind,  the  blinding  was  kept  from  enrolment  until  10  October  2008.  An  IVR 
system  called  RAMOS  (Registration  and  Medication  Ordering  System)  was  used  to  randomise  and 
register subject activity. Randomisation was stratified according to  
  Site of disease: Soft tissue/ visceral disease (could have bone metastases as well) or bone only  
 
Interval from discontinuation of adjuvant endocrine therapy > 6 months /< 6 months 
Summary of Key protocol amendments 
Statistical methods  
The primary analysis was PFS assessed by investigators in the HER2 positive population (randomised 
patients  with  HER2  positive  tumours).  PFS  was  defined  as  time  from  randomisation  to  disease 
progression  or  death,  whichever  occurred  first.  The  secondary  endpoint  was  PFS  assessed  by 
investigators  in  the  ITT  population.  A  closed  hierarchical  testing  was  done  with  PFS  in  the  HER  2 
positive population as the first endpoint to be tested. A supportive analysis was based on assessments 
from the IRB.  
In  amendment  4  the  TTP  was  changed  to  PFS,  however  the  majority  of  deaths  were  breast  cancer 
related, only 11 patients in the ITT population died from other cause than cancer. The primary efficacy 
population was changed to HER2 positive.  
An independent, blinded review of all radiological scans as a supportive analysis was performed by an 
IRC, and the results used as a confirmatory analysis of the primary efficacy measure of investigator-
evaluated PFS. The IRC reviewed all scans and, for subjects with skin lesions, all photographs. The 
IRC were not given information of symptomatic assessments of PD. 
Nevertheless,  it  must  be  noted  that  the  clinical  assessment  of  symptomatic  progression  was  also 
possible  by  the  protocol,  more  prone  to  bias  and,  in  principle,  not  verifiable  by  the  IRC.  Although 
clinically  and  ethically  correct,  that  possibility  obligates  great  caution  in  ensuring  a  rigorous 
parallelism  (in  time  and  means)  of  assessment  of  tumoural  targets  between  arms,  in  order  to  avoid 
bias. 
 11
 
 
 
A  hierarchical  closed  testing  procedure  with  HER2  positive  population  was  being  tested  first  at  α= 
0.05  level  followed  by  secondary  endpoint  if  the  analysis  for  the  HER2  positive  population  was 
significant. There were no adjustments for multiplicity for secondary end-points   
The comparisons were between treatment groups: letrozole/placebo vs. letrozole/lapatinib. 
A  stratified  log-rank  test  was  used  with  stratification  as  by  Site  of  disease  and  ≥6  months  from 
discontinuation of adjuvant endocrine therapy. As HER2 status was not known at randomisation the 
stratification factors in the ITT population was not applied in this population. Cox regression analysis 
was  used  with  pre-specified  base-line  prognostic  factors  (Stage  of  disease,  Site  of  disease,  prior 
adjuvant  chemo  ≥6  months,  prior  adjuvant  endocrine  therapy,  ≥6  months,  HR  status  (categorical), 
ECOG,  Age,  disease  free  interval,  number  of  metastatic  sites,  EGFR  at  baseline,  Serum  HER2  at 
baseline, Serum HER2 converter post baseline). However “serum HER 2 converter post baseline” was 
not a baseline prognostic factor per se as it is influenced by treatment. 
No interim analysis was performed. 
The analyses were performed in three populations: HER2 positive, ITT and HER2 negative. 
Results 
The figure below presents the participant flow chart for the study. 
Regarding censoring the following rules applied: 
- 
- 
- 
If not progressed, last radiological scan assessed by investigator was used. 
If new therapy started without evidence of documented disease progression PFS was censored at 
the  date  of  the  last  radiological  assessment  that  is  no  later  than  14  days  following  the  date  of 
initiation of therapy.  
If initiation of therapy + 14 day window was prior to progression or death and the therapy start 
and progression or death was between the first and last of multiple scans, PFS was censored at the 
first scan date of the previous assessment. 
Subjects with no scans were censored at randomisation. 
- 
Conduct of the study 
26  patients  were  excluded  from  the  PP  population  due  to  major  protocol  violations,  the  most 
commonly reported was not receiving study treatment and not having metastatic lesions. 
One site with 6 patients was closed due to GCP issues, the patients were kept in the ITT population, 
but not in the PP population. 
 12
 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline characteristics 
All  patients  were  female.  Median  age  in  the  HER2  positive  population  was  60.0  (44-87),  in  the  HER 2 
negative population 63.0 (31-94). In the ITT population median age was 63.0 (31-95). The vast majority 
(94.5%)  had  metastatic  disease  only  12  patients  in  total  had  locally  advanced  disease.  There  were  no 
significant  differences  between  treatment  groups.  The  most  common  medical  condition  at  baseline  was 
hypertension, 38% in the ITT population. 
Baseline disease characteristics of the HER2-positive population 
Categorical Covariate 
Strata 
Histology  
Site of disease 
Prior adjuvant 
chemotherapy 
Prior adjuvant endocrine 
therapy 
ECOG performance 
status at baseline 
Number of metastatic 
sites 
Serum ErbB2 (ECD) at 
baseline 
Serum ErbB2 converter 
post-baseline 
Hormone receptor 
status 
Stage of disease at 
screening 
EGFR 
Infiltrating ductal 
Lobular invasive 
Other 
Visceral/soft tissue 
Bone only 
Liver 
Lung  
Lymph node 
Other 
<6 months since 
discontinuation 
≥6 months since 
discontinuation 
<6 months since 
discontinuation 
≥6 months since 
discontinuation 
0 
≥1 
<3 
≥3 
<15 ng/mL 
≥15 ng/mL 
Yes 
No 
Missing 
ER positive or PgR 
positive (reference) 
ER negative and PgR 
negative 
ER missing and PgR 
missing 
IIIB/IIIC 
IV 
3+ 
0 to 2+ 
Letrozole 2.5 mg + 
Placebo 
(N=108) 
87 (81) 
11 (10) 
10 (9) 
90 (83) 
18 (17) 
37 (34) 
40 (37) 
43 (40) 
18 (17) 
Letrozole 2.5 mg + 
Lapatinib 1500 mg 
(N=111) 
96 (86) 
11 (10) 
4 (4) 
95 (86) 
16 (14) 
33 (30) 
43 (39) 
57 (51) 
19 (17) 
4 (4) 
107 (96) 
38 (34) 
73 (66) 
59 (53) 
51 (46) 
64 (58) 
47 (42) 
69 (62) 
35 (32) 
0 
0 
111 (100) 
93 (84) 
10 (9) 
8 (7) 
5 (5) 
106 (95) 
0 
110 (> 99) 
2 (2) 
106 (98) 
41 (38) 
67 (62) 
51 (47) 
57 (53) 
66 (61) 
42 (39) 
51 (47) 
53 (49) 
0 
0 
108 (100) 
92 (85) 
7 (6) 
9 (8) 
7 (6) 
101 (94) 
2 (2) 
104 (96) 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjuvant therapy 
In  the  ITT  population  60%  had  received  adjuvant  therapy.  HER  2  patients  had  received  both  endocrine 
and  chemotherapy  to  a  somewhat  higher  extent  than  other  populations.  The  most  common  hormone 
therapy  was  tamoxifen  which  was  used  in  >  95%  in  all  populations.  Only  few  patients  had  received 
aromatase inhibitors and trastuzumab. The most common chemotherapy was anthracyclin based. 
Prior systemic therapy HER 2 positive population 
Any endocrine 
Anastrazole, exemestane or letrozole 
Other hormone 
Any chemotherapy 
Anthracyclins 
Taxanes 
Anthracyclins and Taxanes 
Letrozole/placebo 
Letrozole/laptinib 
62 (57%) 
1 (2%) 
1 (2%) 
51 (47%) 
38 (75%) 
0 (0%) 
9 (18%) 
60 (54%) 
1 (2%) 
0 (0%) 
61 (55%) 
41 (67%) 
0 (0%) 
9 (15%) 
Monoclonal antibodies (Trastuzumab) 
1(<1%) (100%) 
1(<1%) (100%) 
Both hormone and chemotherapy 
Treatment naive 
43 (40%) 
38 (35%) 
44 (40%) 
34 (31%) 
Relatively  many  patients  (almost  half  of  them)  were  endocrine  treatment  naive.  About  one-third  was 
treatment  naïve;  however 19%  were  initially  diagnosed  with  metastatic  disease.  Currently  more  patients 
receive adjuvant aromatase inhibitors and trastuzumab than at study start. 
Hormone receptors 
A positive status of ER and PR was most common in all populations followed by ER positive/PR negative.   
HER2+ 
Letro/plac 
HER2+ 
Letro/lap 
HER2- 
Letro/plac 
HER2- 
Letro/lap 
ER+/PR+ 
ER+/PR- 
ER-/PR+ 
ER-/PR- 
Missing/unk 
69 % 
25 % 
2 % 
0 % 
4 % 
68 % 
21 % 
3 % 
0 % 
8 % 
68 % 
24 % 
2 % 
0 % 
0 % 
71 % 
18 % 
3 % 
<1 % 
0 % 
Other current medical conditions: 
In the HER2-positive population, the percentage of subjects with current medical conditions was similar 
between the two treatment groups. The majority of the current medical conditions were Grade 1 or Grade 
2 only. At study entry, the most common current medical condition was hypertension (occurring in 32% of 
subjects  overall,  grade  III  3%  in  letrozole  plus  placebo  group  and  <1%  in  letrozole  plus  lapatinib), 
followed  by  back  pain,  arthralgia,  depression,  and  fatigue  (each  occurring  in  11%  of  all  subjects).  The 
only  Grade  4  current  medical  condition  reported  at  baseline  was  obesity  (1  subject  in  the  letrozole  plus 
placebo group). 
In  the  letrozole/lapatinib  group  26%  compared  to  35%  in  the  letrozole/  placebo  group  had  a  single 
metastatic site. 
Previous medications and concurrent medications 
In  the  HER2-positive  population,  up  to  56%  of  subjects  had  received  prior  chemotherapy  or  endocrine 
therapy.  Only  2  subjects  (1  subject  in  each  treatment  group)  had  previously  received  trastuzumab.  The 
most  common  chemotherapy  regimen  was  anthracyclin  based,  however  probably  contained  as  well 
cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil.  
 15
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  HER2-positive  population,  of  the  subjects  who  received  prior  adjuvant  endocrine  therapy, 
approximately 64% and 60% received tamoxifen in the letrozole plus placebo and letrozole plus lapatinib 
groups,  respectively,  and  approximately  21%  and  17%  of  subjects  in  the  letrozole  plus  placebo  and 
letrozole  plus  lapatinib  groups,  respectively,  received  tamoxifen  citrate.  Only  2  patients  in  the  HER2 
positive population had received treatment with aromatase inhibitors. 
There  were  more  patients  in  the  HER-2  positive  group  that  had  discontinued  prior  endocrine  adjuvant 
treatment < 6 months compared to the ITT population. 
Main characteristics of the patients were well balanced between treatment arms in the HER2 population. 
However, a high serum HER2 (ECD) rate at baseline (≥15 ng/mL) was more frequent in the letrozol plus 
placebo arm than in the letrozole plus lapatinib arm. 
Also, more patients in the letrozole plus lapatinib arm (55%) than in the letrozole plus placebo (47%) arm 
had  received  previous  chemotherapy;  this  imbalance  was  almost  entirely  due  to  an  imbalance  in  the 
number  of  patients  having  received  CMF  adjuvant  treatment  (4%  vs.  10%).  However,  the  distribution 
between categories of time from discontinuation of chemotherapy is well balanced. 
Stratification factors  
Site of disease and ≥6 months interval from discontinuation of endocrine therapy) were basically similar 
between  treatment  arms  in  all  populations.  In  the  HER  2  positive  population  more  patients  had 
discontinued endocrine therapy < 6 months before study start compared to the other populations. 
Missing HER2 status  
115  patients  had  missing  HER2  status,  the  main  reason  was  insufficient  tumour  material  provided.  The 
HER2  missing  subjects  were  slightly  more  common  in  Western  and  Eastern  Europe.  In  general  this 
population was similar to the other populations, however time since diagnosis was longer compared to the 
ITT population and there were fewer ductal carcinomas. 
Primary reason for discontinuation of study drug HER2 positive population 
Primary reason for discontinuation of 
study drug 
Letrozole/placebo n=108 
Letrozole/Lapatinib n=111 
Adverse event 
Consent withdrawn 
Lost to follow-up 
Protocol violation 
Radiological progression 
Symptomatic progression 
Death 
Discontinuation by sponsor 
Other 
Missing 
3 (3%) 
5 (5%) 
0 
3 (3%) 
71 (66%) 
14 (13%) 
1 (<1%) 
0 
1 (<1%) 
0 
 16
7 (6%) 
9 (8%) 
0 
3 (3%) 
74 (67%) 
8 (7%) 
1 (<1%) 
0 
5 (5%) 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary objective – PFS 
Investigator evaluated PFS, HER2 positive population 
In  the  HER2-postive  population  of  EGF30008,  there  were  24  patients  with  symptomatic  progression. 
There was an imbalance between arms, 15 in the letrozole + placebo arm and 9 in the letrozole + lapatinib 
arm.  Excluding  these  patients  with  symptomatic  progression,  the  HR  was  0.76  (95%  CI:  0.55,  1.04; 
stratified log rank p=0.075), which was not statistically significant.  
The  median  is  at  the  largest  difference  in  the  curve.  After  about  70  weeks  the  curves  converge.  As 
expected in this selected HER2 positive population the PFS is shorter compared to first-line treatment in 
other studies with aromatase inhibitors. 
Kaplan-Meier estimates for investigator-evaluated PFS, HER2 positive population 
 17
 
 
 
A Cox regression analysis showed a similar difference in PFS. Of the pre-specified co-variates ECOG and 
Serum HER2 ≥15 had impact on PFS.  
The analysis of IRC-evaluated PFS in the HER2-positive population also confirmed the primary analysis, 
demonstrating  the  internal  consistency  of  the  results  in  this  study.  There  was  a  statistically  significant 
improvement  in  median  PFS  in  subjects  receiving  letrozole  plus  lapatinib  (60  weeks)  compared  with 
subjects receiving letrozole plus placebo (35.4 weeks) (HR: 0.64; 95% CI: 0.43, 0.96, p=0.022).  
As  a  consequence  of  censoring,  the  PFS  assessed  by  IRC  was  longer  as  compared  to  the  investigator 
assessments. 
PFS HER 2 positive population IRC assessment n (% of treatment arm) 
Letrozole/placebo 
Letrozole /lapatinib 
Number of subjects 
Progressed or died due to any cause 
Censored, follow-up ended  
Censored, follow-up ongoing 
Kaplan-Meier estimate of PFS (weeks) 
1st Quartile, 95% C.I. 
Median, 95% C.I. 
3rd Quartile 95% C.I. 
Hazard ratio Estimate, 95% C.I. 
Log-Rank p-value 
(N=108) 
52 (48%) 
47 (44%) 
9 (8%)  
12.0, (11.4,13.6) 
35.4, (16.0,61.1) 
155.0, (62.0,-) 
(N=111) 
49 (44%) 
55 (50%) 
7 (6%) 
23.4, (14.4,32.9) 
60.0, (42.3,82.6) 
107.3, (82.6,-) 
0.64 (0.43,0.96) 
0.022 
There  was  a  discrepancy  between  the  investigator  and  IRC  assessed  PFS  regarding  the  HER2  positive 
population. Overall concordance is 63% when using a 7 day window. The differences were primarily due 
to progression being determined by the investigator and censoring of IRC review due to initiation of new 
anti-cancer therapy by investigator. 
As  PFS  is  liable  to  bias  a  clarification  was  provided  regarding  radiologically  versus  symptomatically 
assessed patients which showed that it is admissible that the difference in PFS is maintained. 
 18
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Comparison of investigator and IRC evaluated PFS using 7 day window for complete agreement. 
Event by IRC 
n 
Complete agreement with 
investigator 
PD later by investigator  
PD earlier by investigator  
Event by IRC Censored by 
investigator  
Censored by IRC 
n 
Complete agreement with 
investigator 
Letrozole/ 
Letrozole/ 
Total 
lapatinib 
placebo 
52 
49 
101 
36 (69) 
28 (57) 
64 (63) 
9 (17) 
5 (10) 
2 (4) 
15 (31) 
5 (10) 
1 (2) 
24 (24) 
10 (10) 
3 (3) 
56 
62 
118 
15 (27) 
19 (31) 
34 (29%) 
Censoring later by investigator 
Censoring earlier by investigator 
1 (2) 
1 (2) 
1(2) 
2 (3) 
2 (2) 
3 (3) 
PD by investigator 
39 (70) 
40 (65) 
79 (67) 
Secondary objective – Overall Survival 
Overall survival, HER 2 positive population 
The  median  OS  in  weeks  was  140.3  (92.1,  159.4)  vs.  144.7  (95.6,  NE)  for  letrozole/placebo  and 
letrozole/lapatinib respectively.  
The response rate was higher in the letrozole/laptinib arm with 27.9% vs. 14.8%; the majority of responses 
were partial. 
 19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other endpoints, HER 2 positive population 
ORR by investigator assessment for subjects with both measurable and non-measurable disease, HER2 
positive population 
Overall Response Rate/Complete Response/Partial Response: The data were consistent with the analysis 
of subjects with measurable disease only. There were only few patients with CR and PRs. Patients aged 
> 65 years had a higher response rate in both treatment arms, 16.2% and 36.6% respectively. 
The  IRC  evaluated  ORR  also  showed  an  improved  ORR  in  favour  of  letrozole/placebo  of  27.0%  (19.0, 
36.3) compared to 9.3 % (4.5, 16.4).  
Time to response: 11/16 and 23/31 in the letrozole/placebo and letrozole/lapatinib group respectively had 
responded by the first assessment (12 weeks). 
Duration  of  response:  Duration  of  response  was  longer  in  the  letrozole/  placebo  group  compared  to  the 
letrozole/laptinib group (84.4 vs. 47.4 weeks, investigator assessment). 
A possible explanation to this finding could be that patients that respond to endocrine treatment only have 
a more indolent disease. 
Brain metastases: There were no differences with regards to brain metastases, however only 3 patients in 
total in the HER 2 positive population had brain metastases. 
Quality  of  Life: In the HER2-positive population, results for the analyses of OQL change from baseline 
were similar in the groups with generally stable QOL on all measures for subjects who stayed in the study. 
In general, mean QOL scores for both treatment groups were higher than their respective baseline values 
during  follow  up.  At  the  concluding  visit,  MIDs  occurred  in  both  treatment  groups.  None  of  the 
differences between treatment groups were statistically significant. However, the scales, FACT-B; FACT-
G and TOI may not capture all relevant side effects. 
Biomarkers:  In  the  HER2  positive  population  49%  in  the  letrozole/placebo  arm  vs.  32%  in  the 
letrozole/lapatinib  group  had  with  HER2  ECD  >  15  ng/mL.  In  the  HER2  positive  as  well  as  the  HER2 
negative  group  patients  with  HER2  ECD  >  15  ng/mL  had  shorter  PFS  irrespective  of  treatment.  In  the 
HER2  positive  group  subjects  with  HER2  ECD  >  15  ng/mL  letrozole/placebo  group  had  significantly 
shorter PFS compared to the letrozole/lapatinib group. 
 20
 
 
 
Sub group analyses: 
When analysing age groups <65 and >65 there were no differences seen in the HER2 positive population 
on PFS; ORR was higher in the group aged >65 years. With regards to OS survival in the HER2 positive 
population in subjects aged <65 years there was a survival of 147.9 weeks in the letrozole/placebo group 
and  118.7  weeks  in  the  letrozole/lapatinib  group.  However,  the  data  was  not  mature.  In  the  group  of 
subjects aged >65 years the median OS was 93.6 weeks in the letrozole/placebo group and data could not 
be calculated in the letrozole and lapatinib group. 
In patients with FISH/ICH2+ or FISH borderline there was no difference in PFS. 
With regards to hormone receptors a Cox proportional Hazard Modelling with ER and PR as continuous 
variables  was  performed.  For  the  primary  endpoint  (PFS  as  assessed  by  investigators)  ER  (continuous) 
had no statistically significant impact on PFS (HR 0.997, p=0.2298). However, when analysed by IRC ER 
had a statistically significant improvement in PFS HR 0.993, p=0.0266, which translates into a reduction 
in HR of 0.07 of every 10% increment in ER. The same pattern is seen for PR.  
In the category 0<5 where lapatinib would be expected to have the largest relative add-on effect the hazard 
ratio is very close to 1. However the groups were too small to draw any conclusions. 
New information provided on effect in different HR cut-off categories (<10%, >10%, 10-50%, >50%) did 
show consistent results with regards to the hazard ratio. 
 21
 
 
 
1.4.2.2  Supportive study EGF10030 
EGF10030 was a Phase I, open-label study of the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of GW572016 
in combination with letrozole (Femara) in subjects with advanced breast cancer or other solid tumours. 
This  study  was  conducted  in  three  phases  which  included  three  cohorts  of  subjects;  a  dose  escalation 
cohort  (Cohort  1)  to  determine  the  optimally  tolerated  dose  (OTR),  an  expansion  cohort  (Cohort  2)  to 
further evaluate the safety and tolerability of the OTR, and a PK cohort (Cohort 3) to assess the potential 
for a drug-drug interaction when these two drugs are used in combination.   
Methods  
The  study  was  a  phase  1  open  label  to  determine  OTR  and  PK.  Safety  was  followed  by  vital  signs, 
laboratory  parameters,  MUGA  and  ECG  for  cardiac  safety.  Adverse  events  were  collected  using  NCI-
CTC version 3, RECIST criteria were used to assess response when applicable. 
39 patients with mainly hormone-receptor positive breast cancer (n=18) and ovarian cancer (n=16) were 
enrolled. Mean age was 56.1 (31-73) and all subjects were female and white.  
12 subjects were included in the optimally tolerated regimen (OTR) dose finding cohort (Cohort 1), seven 
subjects in the OTR expansion cohort (Cohort 2), and 20 subjects in the PK cohort (Cohort 3). The OTR 
expansion added patients at OTR to further evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination. 
The dose of lapatinib was escalated in three subjects/dose level in Cohort 1 starting at a lapatinib dose of 
1250 mg/day and letrozole 2.5 mg/day. The letrozole dose remained at 2.5 mg at all dose levels. 
The  doses  for  lapatinib  were  chosen  from  the  range  administered  in  EGF  10003  where  doses  of  up  to 
1800 mg once daily were administered without DLT during the first treatment cycle. The dose of letrozole 
(2.5 mg once a day) was based on the approved dosage. 
Results 
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) was considered a Grade 2 diarrhoea two days after starting lapatinib in one 
of 8 patients in the 1500 mg cohort. 
A total of 5 patients experienced DLTs 4 diarrhoeas 1 grade 1 and 3 grade 3 and one grade 3 rash. 
With respect to the efficacy results, two patients achieved PR (one breast cancer, one endometrial cancer), 
20 subjects had stable disease, and twelve subjects had progressive disease. 
 22
 
 
 
Regarding  safety  four  subjects  had  a  LVEF  decrease  of  greater  than  or  equal  to  20%  relative  to  their 
baseline assessment. One of these subjects had an LVEF decrease of > 20%.  
The most commonly reported AEs were: diarrhoea, rash, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and anorexia. Twenty-
one subjects had Grade 3 AEs and two subjects had Grade 4 AEs, all in the 1500 mg lapatinib plus 2.5 mg 
letrozole  treatment  group.  One  patient  died  due  to  Grade  4  respiratory  failure,  this  was  not  considered 
related by the investigator. 
The safety profile was consistent with the known safety profile of lapatinib. 
1.4.2.3  Overall Conclusion on Clinical Efficacy 
The  application  targets  all  postmenopausal,  HR+/HER2+  patients  in  first  line  treatment  for  metastatic 
disease. This group of patients may in fact be treated with chemotherapy instead of hormone therapy. The 
combination of chemotherapy with trastuzumab is even recommended for patients with good performance 
status,  visceral  disease,  or  rapidly  progressing  tumours  (Prat,  2008),  like  the  majority  of  the  patients 
included  in  trial  EGF  30008.  Therefore,  the  evidence  supporting  this  application  may  be  considered  to 
respect just one of the possible ways of treating the target population of patients.  
For the HER2 population a statistically significant prolongation in PFS was seen by investigator assessed 
evaluations. In the letrozole/placebo group the median PFS was 13.0 weeks (12.0, 23.7) compared to 35.4 
weeks  (24.1,  39.4)  in  the  lapatinib/letrozole  group  which  is  considered  a  clinically  meaningful 
improvement.  HR  was  0.71  (0.53,  0.96)  p=0.019  in  favour  of  the  letrozole/laptinib  arm.  Cox regression 
analysis  showed  a  HR  0.65  (0.47,  0.89)  p=  0.008.  The  majority  of  the  responses  were  seen  within  12 
weeks of treatment. The duration of response was 47.7 weeks in the letrozole/lapatinib arm compared to 
84.4 weeks in the letrozole/placebo arm. This could tentatively be explained by a more indolent course in 
tumours responding to single endocrine treatment. 
However, as the primary endpoint of PFS is liable to bias, the assessment of the exact magnitude of the 
efficacy  of  the  combination  required  a  clarification  of  the  distribution  of  radiologically  versus 
symptomatically assessed patients. The MAH provided data demonstrating that: 
- 
- 
the  loss  of  significance  of  the  difference  in  PFS  when  patients  with  symptomatic  progression  are 
excluded from the analysis must be due to a loss of power: 
even in the worst scenario ( symptomatic progressions in the control arm being considered to occur at 
the  next  fixed  assessment  date  and  those  in  the  experimental  arm  being  considered  to  occur  at  the 
preceding fixed assessment date), the difference in PFS keeps its statistical significance. 
Therefore, it is admissible that, despite the imbalance between the two arms in the numbers of patients 
with symptomatic progression, the difference in PFS favouring the lapatinib arm is maintained. 
Furthermore,  analyses  of hormone  receptors  showed  a  slight  tendency  in  IRC  evaluated  PFS  towards 
better effect in patients with higher levels of hormone receptors; however the effect seems to be fairly 
consistent in all groups. New analyses with regards to different levels of HR cut-off showed consistent 
results. 
There was no significant difference in OS but the data were not considered mature for the analysis of this 
endpoint. The overall response rate was 27.9 vs. 14.8% respectively in favour of letrozole/lapatinib. The 
submission of a mature data set has been requested by the CHMP as a Follow-up Measure. 
The combination of trastuzumab and an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of postmenopausal patients 
with HER2+ metastatic breast cancer is currently approved. To accurately determine the clinical benefit a 
randomised comparison of the regimens would be needed. However, as the study EGF 30008 had ended 
subject recruitment before trastuzumab was approved for this indication, this was not feasible at that time. 
There  are  no  direct  comparisons  available  to  explore  the  difference  between  lapatinib  and  trastuzumab 
concomitant  with  antihormonal  treatment.  While  not  primarily  designed  to  give  a  direct  comparison  of 
lapatinib or trastuzumab in combination with endocrine therapy, study EGF106708 (‘ALTTO’) is testing 
lapatinib and trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting in patients with early breast cancer. Approximately half 
of the planned 8000 patients to be enrolled are expected to have hormone receptor (HR)-positive primary 
 23
 
 
tumours,  and  therefore  to  be  receiving  a  concurrent  anti-hormonal  agent  while  receiving  the 
investigational targeted therapies (trastuzumab or lapatinib or a sequence of trastuzumab then lapatinib or 
trastuzumab  + lapatinib). It is further estimated that 50% to 75% (approximately 3000 women) of these 
women  with  HR-positive  tumours  will  be  postmenopausal  and  hence  most  likely  taking  an  AI.  Results 
from  this  study  are  anticipated  in  2012  and  the  MAH  committed  to  provide  these  data  as  a  Follow-up 
Measure. 
In  addition,  the  MAH  is  currently  planning  to  undertake  further  clinical  trials  in  patients  who  have 
received  at  least  adjuvant  therapy  with  trastuzumab  for  their  breast  cancer.  The  design  of  such  trials  is 
currently under consideration within the company. One study may have a randomised, controlled design 
and be performed in a patient population essentially identical to that of EGF30008 with the exception that 
subjects  must  have  received  prior  treatment  with  trastuzumab.  The  reference  arm  for  this  trial  could  be 
trastuzumab + AI, and therefore also address a previous question from the CHMP that a direct comparison 
of trastuzumab + AI with Tyverb + AI had not been done. The primary and key secondary endpoints of 
this study may be the same as in EGF30008. 
A second, separate study under consideration by the MAH is an uncontrolled trial of Tyverb + AI in the 
patient  population  described  above.  This  trial  may  deliver  clinical  data  in  a  quicker  timeframe  to  a 
controlled study. 
The CHMP requested the MAH to present the protocol and timelines of the planned studies as Follow-up 
commitments. 
Clinical studies in special populations- Paediatric data 
A  class  waiver  decision  on  the  conditions  granted  for  products  intended  for  the  treatment  of  breast 
carcinoma was issued by the EMEA on 14 July 2008 (EMEA/360425/2008, P/47/2008).  
The  PDCO  confirmed  that  this  waiver  applies  to  lapatinib  on  20  May  2008  (EMEA/242695/2008, 
EMEA/6/2008). 
1.4.3  Clinical Safety 
This section reviews the safety profile of lapatinib administered in combination with letrozole to subjects 
with  hormone-receptor  positive  advanced  or  metastatic  breast  cancer.  The  review  includes  safety  data 
from subjects receiving at least one dose of study treatment in the pivotal study EGF30008 (N=1278) and 
the supporting dose-finding study EGF10030 (N=39).  
Since the supporting Phase I study included subjects with various tumour types, data from the two trials 
were not integrated.   
1.4.3.1  Pivotal study EGF 30008 
Patient exposure 
In  the  pivotal  study  1286  patients  were  enrolled,  the  safety  population  comprised  all  patients  who  have 
received at least 1 dose of medication which was 1278, 624 patients with letrozole/placebo and 654 with 
letrozole/lapatinib. 6 patients in the placebo and 2 patients in the lapatinib group did not receive treatment. 
Furthermore 14 subjects in the letrozole /placebo group received lapatinib. 
Nine subjects were randomised to letrozole/lapatinib, but received letrozole+placebo during the treatment 
period. However, they received at least 1 dose of lapatinib and were included in the lapatinib group for 
safety.  As  a  conservative  approach,  these  9  subjects  were  included  in  the letrozole+lapatinib  arm  of  the 
Safety  Population,  and  any  adverse  events  that  these  subjects  experienced  were  attributed  to  the 
letrozole+lapatinib arm.  
The  mean  duration  of  treatment  was  about  55  weeks  both  for  lapatinib  and  letrozole.  Treatment 
compliance was >80% for the majority of patients in both treatment groups.  
A Summary of exposure to lapatinib and letrozole (safety population) is presented in the table below. 
 24
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events (AEs) 
A  higher  incidence  of  AEs  was  reported  with  the  combination  therapy  compared  with  the  monotherapy 
arm (96% vs. 86%). 
The  majority  of  AEs  were  grade  1-2  in  both  groups.  The  most  common  AEs  (see  table  below)  were 
gastrointestinal  and  skin  related.  Diarrhoea  was  3  times  more  common  in  the  letrozole/lapatinib  group 
compared  to  the  letrozole/placebo  group.  Also  rash  was  about  3  times  more  frequent  in  the 
letrozole/lapatinib group compare to letrozole/placebo group. Of the events, 84% in the letrozole/lapatinib 
vs. 55% in the letrozole/placebo arm were classified as treatment related. Also for treatment related AEs 
gastrointestinal and skin events dominated. There were only minor differences in AEs between <65 and 
>65  years  old  and  <75  and  >75  years  old.  Peripheral  edema  and  urinary  tract  infections  were  more 
 25
 
 
 
common  in  older  age  groups  and  hot  flushes  were  reported  more  commonly  among  the  younger  age 
groups.  
Most common adverse events by treatment group 
Event 
Letrozole/placebo 
Letrozole/lapatinib 
Diarrhoea 
Rash 
Nausea 
Arthralgia 
Fatigue 
Back pain 
Vomiting 
Headache 
Cough 
Hot flush 
Asthenia 
124 (20%) 
83 (13%) 
129 (21%) 
145 (23%) 
108 (17%) 
97 (16%) 
68 (11%) 
83 (13%) 
90 (14%) 
92 (15%) 
69 (11%) 
419 (64%) 
293 (45%) 
200 (31%) 
128 (20%) 
134 (20%) 
105 (16%) 
109 (17%) 
91 (14%) 
80 (12%) 
69 (11%) 
80 (12%) 
AEs occurring in 10% or more subjects, and at a higher incidence in the lapatinib/letrozole group 
 26
 
 
 
 
Other AEs with >10% in the lapatinib/letrozole arm were atralgia 31% (vs. letrozole/placebo 21%), back 
pain 16% (vs. 16%), headache 14% (vs. 13%), cough 12% (vs. 14%), hot flush 11% (vs. 15%) and pain in 
extremity 10% (vs. 12%). 
AEs leading to discontinuation 
In the letrozole/laptinib group 12% had any dose reduction and 18 % had dose delays. There were more 
AEs leading to permanent discontinuation of study drug in the letrozole/laptainib arm. Diarrhoea was most 
common reason in the letrozole/lapatinib arm, in the letrozole/placebo arm the most common events were 
ejection fraction decreased/left ventricular dysfunction. However “ejection fraction decreased” was more 
common  in  the  letrozole/lapatinib  arm  in  total.  In  the  age  group  >65 years  slightly  more  patients 
discontinued due to treatment 20% and 8% for letrozole/laptinib and letrozole/placebo respectively. 
The  most  common  AEs  leading  to  permanent  discontinuation  of  investigational  medicinal  products  are 
shown in the table below. 
The most common adverse events leading to permanent discontinuation of investigational drugs 
Serious adverse events (SAEs) and deaths 
The  overall  rate  of  death was  similar  in  the  two  treatment  groups  (37%  each)  for  the  safety  population. 
The primary cause of death in both groups was disease progression (35% in each group).   
 27
 
 
  
There were more SAEs in the letrozole/lapatinib group compared to letrozole/placebo, 144 (22%) and 94 
(15%), respectively. The most common events were decreased ejection fraction and diarrhoea. 
Of the SAEs 8% vs. 4% in letrozole/laptinib and letrozole/placebo respectively were considered treatment 
related.  Infections  were  noted  in  17  (12%)  compared  to  6  (6  %)  subjects  in  the  letrozole/laptinib  and 
letrozole/placebo arm respectively. 
Age did not have a large impact on the frequency or distribution of SAEs. 
Serious adverse events reported by three or more subjects in either treatment group 
Fatal  SAEs  occurred  in  8  patients  in  each  treatment  group.  In  the  letrozole/placebo  group  there  were 
2 septic  chocks  and  1  sepsis  and  2  renal  failures.  In  the  letrozole/lapatinib  group  there  were  one 
cerebrovascular accident and 2 myocardial infarctions. 
Number (%) of Subjects with Fatal serious adverse events (safety population) 
 28
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
Of  haematology  findings  neutropenia  was  the  most  common  and  occurred  in  grade  3  and  4  in  4%  for 
letrozole/placebo and 2% for letrozole/lapatinib. 
The  most common chemistry grade 3 or 4 events  were  AST/ALT changes  which occurred in 6 and 5% 
respectively in the letrozole/lapatinib and 2 and 1% respectively in the letrozole placebo group. 
1.4.3.2  Supportive study EGF10030 
The  AE  profile  of  letrozole  plus  lapatinib  in  trial  EGF  10030  was  generally  similar  to  that  seen  in  the 
pivotal study and consistent with lapatinib clinical experience.   
Eighteen of the 39 enrolled subjects had breast cancer. Most subjects (95%) experienced at least one AE 
and  in  87%,  the  event  was  treatment-related.  The  most  common  treatment-related  toxicities  were 
diarrhoea (77%), rash (62%), nausea (46%), and fatigue (26%), but most AEs were Grade 1 or Grade 2, 
and reversible.  
Two subjects discontinued investigational product each due to a single AE; Grade 4 respiratory failure and 
Grade 3 rash. 
Treatment  related  SAEs  were  low,  with  2  subjects  reporting  Grade  3  anaemia,  Grade  3  diarrhoea  and 
Grade 2 nausea. 
One  subject  died  during  the  follow-up  period  from  serious  Grade  4  respiratory  failure  that  was  not 
treatment related. 
1.4.3.3  Adverse events of interest 
The following categories of AEs have been analysed as AEs of special interest as these are known to be 
associated with inhibition of either ErbB2 or ErbB1 based on the MAH’s prior clinical experience: 
 29
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
diarrhoea (due to inhibition of ErbB1) 
rash (due to inhibition of ErbB1) 
hepatobiliary events (attributed to inhibition of tyrosine kinase) 
cardiac events (due to inhibition of ErbB2) 
pulmonary events (due to inhibition of ErbB1) 
nail disorder 
Number (%) of subjects with adverse events of interest 
Diarrhoea: Sixty-four % in the letrozole/lapatinib arm had an event of diarrhoea. No action was taken in 
the  majority  of  the  events  (90%  in  the  letrozole/placebo  and  85%  in  the  letrozole/lapatinib  arm).  The 
median time to onset was 14.0 days in the letrozole/lapatinib group and 58.5 days in the letrozole/placebo 
group. The median duration was 24 days and 8 days respectively. Grade 3 or 4 diarrhoea was reported in 
14% of the letrozole/lapatinib group. 
Rash:  The  analysis  of  rash  as  an  event  of  special  interest  included  the  following  preferred  terms: 
dermatitis  acneiform,  eczema,  exfoliative  rash,  photosensitivity  reaction,  rash,  rash  erythematous,  rash 
generalised, rash macular, rash maculopapular, rash papular, rash pruritic, rash pustular, and skin ulcer.  
In  study  EGF30008  in  the  letrozole/lapatinib  group  328  patients  experienced  rash.  Of  these  89%  of  the 
events resolved. Medication was needed in 35% of the subjects. The median time to onset was 2.86 weeks 
and the duration 51 days.  
In Study EGF10030, 36 rash events were reported for 25 subjects (64%); 3 (75%) subjects who received 
letrozole  2.5 mg  plus  lapatinib  1250  mg  and  22 (65%) subjects  who  received  letrozole  2.5  mg  plus 
lapatinib 1500 mg. Most rash events reported were considered to be treatment-related by the investigator 
and  most  were  Grade  1  or  Grade 2  in  toxicity.  No  SAEs  of  rash  were  reported  during  the  study.  One 
subject  who  received  letrozole  2.5 mg  plus  lapatinib  1500  mg  had  a  Grade  3  AE  of  rash  that  led  to 
discontinuation of investigational product; the event later resolved with sequelae. 
Hepatotoxicity:  In  study EGF30008, 
the 
letrozole/lapatinib group (15% vs. 8%); however, the frequencies of hepatic SAEs were similar between 
the  treatment  groups  (2%  vs.  4%).  There  was  one  death  due  to  a  liver  related  SAE  in  the 
letrozole/lapatinib group.  
incidence  of  hepatobiliary  AEs  was  higher 
the 
in 
In  Study EGF10030,  five  treatment-related  Grade  1  hepatic  AEs  occurred  in  3 subjects  (9%);  all  the 
events resolved without dose modification. 
Cardiac  events:  The  most  common  cardiac  events  were  palpitations,  left  ventricular  dysfunction,  atrial 
fibrillation,  tachycardia  and  cardiac  failure.  Cardiac  events  of  specific  interest  were  cardiac  failure, 
decreased ejection fraction, left ventricular dysfunction and ventricular dysfunction. In study EGF30008, 
in the letrozole/laptinib group 32 patients (5%) had 39 events reported. In the letrozole/placebo group 15 
subjects (2%) had 16 events reported.  
In  Study  EGF10030,  1  subject  (who  received  letrozole  2.5  mg  plus  lapatinib 1250  mg)  had  an  event  of 
decreased ejection fraction during the study (70% at screening to 48% [31% decline] on Study Day 51). 
 30
 
 
 
This Grade 2 event was reported as an AE and was considered to be treatment-related by the investigator. 
The  event  resolved  without  dose  modification.  An  additional  3  subjects  had  a  20%  decrease  in  LVEF 
relative to their pre-treatment values but the LVEF measurement was not below 50%. 
Pulmonary events: One patient in each treatment group experienced pneumonitis. Two additional subjects 
in the letrozole/laptinib group had AEs suggestive of pneumonitis. 
Nail  disorder:  Nail  disorders  were  reported  for  11  %  in  the  letrozole/laptinib  and  <1%  in  the 
letrozole/placebo group. 
1.4.3.4  Overall conclusion on Safety 
In the pivotal study, there were more subjects who had side-effects in the letrozole/lapatinib group (96%) 
than in the letrozole/placebo group (86%). The majority of side effects were grade 1-2. The most common 
side  effects  were  diarrhoea  and  rash  that  occurred  in  64%  and  45  %  in  the  subjects  treated  with 
letrozole/laptinib.  The  majority  of  the  adverse  effects,  84%  were  classified  as  treatment  related  in  the 
letrozole/laptinib group. Although most events were grade 1-2 they can impact patients well-being as an 
example grade 2 diarrhoea is described as “increase of 4-6 stools/ day or nocturnal stools”.  
Adverse  events  of  interest  were  except  diarrhoea  and  rash,  hepatobiliary  events,  cardiotoxicity  and 
pulmonary  events.  Cardiac  events  were  recorded  in  the  letrozole/placebo  group  in  15  subjects  (2%) 
reported. In the letrozole/laptinib group 32 patients (5%) had 39 events reported. 
Hepatobiliary events were more common in the letrozole/laptinib arm and recorded in 15% of the patients.  
One patient in each treatment arm was diagnosed with pneumonitis, and further two cases in the lapatinib 
arm were suggestive of pneumonitis. 
The number of SAEs were higher in the letrozole/lapatinib group compared to the letrozole/placebo group, 
144 (22%) and 94 (15%), respectively. The most common serious adverse events were decreased ejection 
fraction and diarrhoea. 
Of the SAEs 8% vs. 4% in letrozole/laptinib and letrozole/placebo respectively were considered treatment 
related.  
Fatal SAEs occurred in 8 patients in each treatment group.  
There were no different safety signals in older age groups. In general the safety profile is consistent with 
the known safety profiles of letrozole and lapatinib.  
1.4.4  Risk Management plan 
Hepatobiliary events, decreased LVEF, pneumonitis/ILD, diarrhoea, rash and interactions with other drugs 
are important identified risks. Cardiac, hepatobiliary, and pulmonary events are matters of concern due to 
the  potential  seriousness,  warranting  risk-management  measures  to  allow  the  detection  of  a  pre-existent 
deficit predisposing to adverse events (such as in the case of cardiac toxicity) or early diagnosis of toxicity 
manifestations. QTc changes and food effect on bioavailability are potential risks.  
Additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are  proposed  for  the  following  safety  concerns:  Hepatobiliary 
events, decreased LVEF, diarrhoea and rash, in form of core risk management information. 
The RMP has been updated as requested during the assessment. The updated RMP version 8 follows the 
template for EU-risk management plan and all relevant areas have been covered. Interactions with other 
drugs  were  added  as  an  important  potential  risk.  The  section  for  Pharmacological  Class  Effects  was 
updated.  Key  elements  from  Core  risk  management  information  were  added  into  the  revised  proposed 
SPC and PIL. In addition, the following responses have been submitted: Data from epidemiological and 
pharmacogenetic  studies  concerning  hepatobiliary  events  have  been  submitted  and  results  of  an 
epidemiology study concerning pneumonitis/ILD were shown. A study to evaluate the effect of lapatinib 
on  QT/QTc  interval  was  proposed  by  the  MAH.  Data  on  cardiac  and  hepatobiliary  events  in  elderly 
patients  was  shown.  In  the  SPC,  more  safety  information  was  added  concerning  the  following  topics: 
 31
 
 
 
 
decreased  LVEF,  pneumonitis/ILD,  study  results  and  additional  information  concerning  possible  impact 
on QT interval. 
Four  epidemiology  studies  and  three  pharmacogenetic  studies  have  been  undertaken  to  date  regarding 
hepatobiliary toxicities, and these studies were summarised by the MAH. Timelines for the epidemiology 
studies  were  provided.  The  pharmacogenetic  studies  revealed  strong  genetic  associations  for  a  Class  II 
MHC  locus  (centred  on  HLA-DQA1*0201)  with  ALT  elevation,  and  the  Gilbert´s  syndrome  variant 
UGT1A1*28 with TBL elevation. The MAH committed to discuss possible clinical implications of these 
findings as a follow-up measure (please reefer to section IV for a complete list of the follow-up measures 
to be undertaken by the MAH). 
Hepatobiliary events 
Summary of the Risk Management Plan for lapatinib 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
Safety concern 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1  
Targeted follow up 
questionnaires to ensure 
complete documentation of 
reports  
Regular quarterly evaluations of 
hepatobiliary events by the SRT 
until the rate stabilises. 
Pharmacogenetics studies of 
subjects who experienced 
hepatobiliary events 
(EGF113892/PGX240, 
EGF113895/PGX272, and 
EGF113896/PGX275).  
Epidemiological studies of 
hepatobiliary events and 
compliance with LF monitoring 
(WEUKSTV3635 and 
WEUKSTV4275). 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1  
Targeted follow up 
questionnaires to ensure 
complete documentation of 
reports  
Regular routine evaluations of 
cardiac events by the SRT. 
Decreased LVEF 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine activities:  
IDMCs are instructed to review hepatobiliary 
events for the studies they monitor.  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SmPC: 
“Hepatotoxicity has occurred with Tyverb 
use and may in rare cases be fatal. Liver 
function (transaminases, bilirubin and 
alkaline phosphatase) should be monitored 
before initiation of treatment and monthly 
thereafter, or as clinically indicated. Tyverb 
dosing should be discontinued if changes in 
liver function are severe and patients should 
not be retreated.”   
Adverse Reaction in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC: “Hepatobiliary disorders: Common - 
hyperbilirubinaemia, hepatotoxicity”  
Additional activities: 
Core hepatic risk management information 
for prescribers on the importance of 
monitoring liver function. 
Routine activities:  
IDMCs are instructed to review cardiac 
events for the studies they monitor.  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SmPC: 
“Lapatinib has been associated with reports 
of decreases in left ventricular ejection 
fraction (LVEF). Lapatinib has not been 
evaluated in patients with symptomatic 
cardiac failure. Caution should be taken if 
Tyverb is to be administered to patients with 
conditions that could impair left ventricular 
function (including coadministration with 
potentially cardiotoxic agents). 
Evaluation of cardiac function, including 
LVEF determination, should be conducted 
for all patients prior to initiation of 
treatment with Tyverb to ensure that the 
patient has a baseline LVEF that is within 
the institutions normal limits. LVEF should 
continue to be evaluated during treatment 
with Tyverb to ensure that LVEF does not 
 32
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
decline to an unacceptable level. In some 
cases, LVEF decrease may be severe and 
lead to cardiac failure. Fatal cases have 
been reported, causality of the deaths is 
uncertain”. 
Adverse Reaction in Section 4.8 
of the SmPC: ―Cardiac Disorders: 
Common - Decreased left 
ventricular ejection fraction. 
Also information in Section 4.2, 
posology/administration.  
Additional activities:  
Core cardiac risk management information to 
inform prescribers on the importance of 
cardiac monitoring (see Appendix 8). 
Routine activities:  
IDMCs are instructed to review pulmonary 
events for the studies they monitor.  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SmPC: 
“Lapatinib has been associated with reports 
of pulmonary toxicity including interstitial 
lung disease and pneumonitis.  Patients 
should be monitored for symptoms of 
pulmonary toxicity (dyspnoea, cough, fever) 
and treatment discontinued in patients who 
experience symptoms which are NCI CTCAE 
grade 3 or greater. Pulmonary toxicity may 
be severe and lead to respiratory failure. 
Fatal cases have been reported, causality of 
the deaths is uncertain.”  
Adverse Reaction in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC: “Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: Uncommon – 
Interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis”.  
Regular routine evaluations of pulmonary 
events by the SRT.  
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SmPC: 
“Diarrhoea, including severe diarrhoea, has 
been reported with Tyverb treatment.  At the 
start of therapy, the patients bowel pattern 
and any other symptoms (e.g. fever, 
cramping pain, nausea, vomiting, dizziness 
and thirst) should be determined, to allow 
identification of changes during treatment 
and to help identify patients at greater risk of 
diarrhoea. Patients should be instructed to 
promptly report any change in bowel 
patterns. Proactive management of 
diarrhoea with anti-diarrhoeal agents is 
Pneumonitis/ILD 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1  
Targeted follow up 
questionnaires to ensure 
complete documentation of 
reports  
Study of lapatinib/capecitabine 
combination safety in Japanese 
patients (EGF109749, estimated 
completion 3Q 2010) 
Diarrhoea 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1  
An ongoing CRT (NCS/Keefe) 
looking at the development of 
an animal model to study the 
mechanism of tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor-induced mucosal 
injury and diarrhoea. 
 33
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
important. Severe cases of diarrhoea may 
require administration of oral or intravenous 
electrolytes and fluids, and interruption or 
discontinuation of Tyverb therapy.”  
Adverse Reaction in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC: “Gastrointestinal disorders: Very 
common – diarrhoea, which may lead to 
dehydration.”  
Additional activities:  
Core diarrhoea risk management information 
for prescribers and patients (see Appendix 
9). 
Routine activities:  
Adverse reaction in Section 4.8 of the SmPC: 
“Rash occurred in approximately 28 % of 
patients who received lapatinib in 
combination with capecitabine and in 45 % 
of patients who received lapatinib in 
combination with letrozole. Rash was 
generally low grade and did not result in 
discontinuation of treatment with lapatinib. 
Prescribing physicians are advised to 
perform a skin examination prior to 
treatment and regularly during treatment. 
Patients experiencing skin reactions should 
be encouraged to avoid exposure to sunlight 
and apply broad spectrum sunscreens with a 
Sun Protection Factor (SPF) 30. If a skin 
reaction occurs a full body examination 
should be performed at every visit until one 
month after resolution. Patients with 
extensive or persistent skin reactions should 
be referred to a dermatologist”. 
Additional activities:  
Core rash risk management information for 
prescribers and patients (see Appendix 10). 
Routine activities:  
Adverse reactions in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC: “Gastrointestinal disorders: Very 
common – nausea, vomiting.”  
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Activity to be determined if safety signal is 
identified.  
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC: “There has 
Rash 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1  
Review data from completed 
CRT (NU08-CC2) which 
retrospectively compared the 
histological and 
immunohistochemical 
alterations of lapatinib-induced 
skin rash to other approved 
epidermal growth factor 
(EGFR) inhibitors (cetuximab, 
panitumumab, erlotinib). 
Nausea/Vomiting 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1  
Interactions with other 
Drugs 
QTc prolongation 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1  
Studies planned to evaluate 
effects of digoxin 
(EGF110557), and gastric acid 
lowering drugs on the 
bioavailability of lapatinib 
(EGF109275). 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1 
 34
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Study EGF114271, a 
multicentre, single-blind, single 
sequence crossover study 
planned to assess the potential 
for lapatinib to prolong QT 
interval. 
Food effect 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1 
Bioavailability studies on the 
effects of food (EGF111582) 
and gastric acid lowering drugs 
(EGF109275). 
Children 
The Elderly 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1  
Paediatric study PBTC 016 in 
recurrent or refractory 
medulloblastoma, malignant 
glioma, or ependymoma 
ongoing 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1 
 35
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
been no dedicated study to assess the 
potential for lapatinib to prolong the QT 
interval. A small, concentration dependent 
increase in QTc interval was observed in an 
uncontrolled, open-label dose escalation 
study of lapatinib in advanced cancer 
patients, such that an effect on QT interval 
cannot be ruled out. Caution should be taken 
if Tyverb is administered to patients with 
conditions that could result in prolongation 
of QTc (including hypokalemia, 
hypomagnesaemia, congenital long QT 
syndrome, or coadministration of other 
medicines known to cause QT prolongation). 
Hypokalemia or hypomagnesaemia should 
be corrected prior to treatment. 
Electrocardiograms with QT measurement 
should be considered prior to administration 
of Tyverb and throughout treatment”.  
Further Activity to be determined if safety 
signal is identified. 
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC: 
“Grapefruit juice should be avoided during 
treatment with lapatinib.”  Comment in 
Section 4.2: “Lapatinib should be taken 
either at least one hour before, or at least 
one hour after food. To minimise variability 
in the individual patient, administration of 
lapatinib should be standardised in relation 
to food intake, for example always be taken 
before a meal”, and Section 4.5: “The 
bioavailability of lapatinib is increased up to 
about 4 times by food, depending on e.g. the 
fat content in the meal. Grapefruit juice may 
inhibit CYP3A4 in the gut wall and increase 
the bioavailability of lapatinib and should 
therefore be avoided during treatment with 
lapatinib”. 
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Comment in Section 4.2 of the SmPC: 
“TYVERB is not recommended for use in 
paediatrics due to insufficient data on safety 
and efficacy.”  
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Comment in Section 4.2 of the SmPC: 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
“There are limited data of the use of Tyverb 
and capecitabine in patients aged ≥65 years. 
In the phase III clinical study of Tyverb in 
combination with letrozole, of the total 
number of hormone receptor positive 
metastatic breast cancer patients (Intent to 
treat population N=642), 44 % were ≥65 
years of age. No overall differences in 
efficacy and safety of the combination of 
Tyverb and letrozole were observed between 
these subjects and subjects <65 years of 
age.” 
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Warning in Section 4.6 of the SmPC: “There 
are no adequate data from the use of Tyverb 
in pregnant women.  Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity.  The potential 
risk for humans is not known.  Tyverb should 
not be used during pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary.  Women of childbearing potential 
should be advised to use adequate 
contraception and avoid becoming pregnant 
while receiving treatment with Tyverb. The 
safe use of Tyverb during breast-feeding has 
not been established. It is not known whether 
lapatinib is excreted in human milk. In rats, 
growth retardation was observed in pups 
which were exposed to lapatinib via breast 
milk. Breast-feeding must be discontinued in 
women who are receiving therapy with 
Tyverb.””  
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Warning in Section 4.2 of the SmPC: 
“Lapatinib should be discontinued if changes 
in liver function are severe and patients 
should not be retreated.  Administration of 
lapatinib to patients with moderate to severe 
hepatic impairment should be undertaken 
with caution due to increased exposure to the 
medicinal product. Insufficient data are 
available in patients with hepatic impairment 
to provide a dose adjustment 
recommendation.”  
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Warning in Section 4.2 of the SmPC: “No 
dose adjustment is necessary in patients with 
Pregnant or lactating 
females 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1 
Patients with hepatic 
disease 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1 
Patients with renal 
disease 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1 
 36
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
mild to moderate renal impairment. Caution 
is advised in patients with severe renal 
impairment as there is no experience of 
lapatinib in this population.” 
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SmPC: 
“Caution should be taken if Tyverb is to be 
administered to patients with conditions that 
could impair left ventricular function. 
(including coadministration with 
potentially cardiotoxic agents).”  Also 
comment in Section 4.2 of the SmPC.  
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Activity to be determined if safety signal is 
identified  
Additional activities:  
None 
Routine activities:  
Section 4.1 and Section 4.2 of the SmPC: 
“Tyverb is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with breast cancer, whose tumours 
overexpress HER2 (ErbB2); in combination 
with capecitabine for patients with advanced 
or metastatic disease with progression 
following prior therapy, which must have 
included anthracyclines and taxanes and 
therapy with trastuzumab in the metastatic 
setting.” And “Tyverb is indicated for the 
treatment of patients with breast cancer, 
whose tumours overexpress HER2 (ErbB2): 
in 
combination with an aromatase inhibitor for 
postmenopausal women with hormone 
receptor positive metastatic disease, not 
currently intended for chemotherapy. The 
patients in the registration study were not 
previously treated with trastuzumab or an 
aromatase inhibitor.” 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC: “Tyverb treatment 
should only be initiated by a physician 
experienced in the administration of anti-
cancer agents.” 
Additional activities:  
None 
Patients with low 
cardiac ejection 
fraction 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1 
Patients of different 
racial and/or ethnic 
origins 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1  
Studies EGF104535 and 
EGF109749 ongoing, estimated 
completion 2010 and 3Q 2010 
respectively. 
Potential for 
medication errors 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
detailed in Section 3.1 
 37
 
 
 
1.5  Overall Conclusion and Benefit-Risk Assessment 
Benefit: 
In patients with HER 2 positive metastatic disease the  treatment of choice is generally chemotherapy in 
combination treatments that target HER 2. However not all patients are candidates for chemotherapy. In 
postmenopausal  women  with  hormone  receptor  and  HER  2  positive  metastatic  breast  cancer  the 
combination of letrozole and lapatinib has shown a modest increase in PFS compared to letrozole/placebo. 
The Hazard Ratio (HR) was 0.71 (0.53, 0.96), p= 0.019. The median PFS in the letrozole/lapatinib group 
was 35.4 weeks compared to 13.0 weeks. This could however be an overestimation a, estimated from HR 
it should be rather 5-10 weeks. The effect can be acceptable from a clinical point of view. 
in 
the  proposed  population.  Data  provided 
Uncertainties:  
Breast  cancer  treatment  has  changed  from  study  start  and  substantially  more  patients  are  receiving 
aromatase inhibitors and trastuzumab as adjuvant treatment. A concern is how the new treatment standard 
would  affect  the  results  of  the  studied  combination.  In  the  study  only  very  few  patients  have  received 
previous adjuvant therapy with aromatase inhibitors or trastuzumab which are current treatment standard 
the 
for  many  patients 
lapatinib/aromatase  inhibitor  combination  after  progression  on  trastuzumab  are  only  data  from  other 
settings and not regarding the combination.  
As pointed out by the MAH, use of sequential endocrine/aromatase inhibitor treatment is in many cases 
endorsed  and  as  aromatase  inhibitors  are  widely  used  a  clinical  interpretation  of  the  registration  study 
without  clear  information  in  the  indication  could  be  that  addition  of  lapatinib  to  an  aromatase  inhibitor 
after progression was studied which is misleading. 
Furthermore the population failed on trastuzumab and aromatase inhibitors could be a different population 
both  with  regards  to  prognosis  and  with  regards  to  receptor  status  and  other  biologic  markers  than  the 
population studied where the majority of patients had failed on tamoxifen or were endocrine naive. Data 
were provided which showed a consistency in Hazard Ratios in different HR levels. 
the  effect  of 
to  support 
The pivotal trial provided evidence for the superiority of efficacy in terms of PFS of lapatinib+letrozole 
against letrozole alone, but the application targeted all the postmenopausal, HR+/HER2+ patients in first 
line  treatment  for  metastatic  disease.  However,  the  combination  of  chemotherapy  with  trastuzumab  is 
generally recommended for patients with good performance status, visceral disease, or rapidly progressing 
tumours  (Prat,  2008).  In  the  study  the  majority  of  patients  received  chemotherapy  on  progression. 
Therefore, the evidence supporting this application may be considered to respect just one of the possible 
ways of treating the target population of patients. There are no direct data to compare lapatinib+letrozole 
against combination chemotherapy with trastuzumab. 
The combination of trastuzumab and an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of postmenopausal patients 
with  metastatic  breast  cancer  whose  tumours  overexpress  HER2  is  currently  approved.  To  accurately 
determine the clinical benefit of lapatinib in this context comparisons of lapatinib vs. trastuzumab, each in 
combination  with  an  aromatase  inhibitor  are  needed.  Data  provided  refer  to  phase  II-III  studies 
investigating  the  effect  of  lapatinib  in  combination  with  antihormonal  treatment  in  neodadjuvant  and 
metastatic  setting.  No  studies  in  either  setting  were  comparing  the  effect  of  lapatinib  and  letrozole  in 
combination with an aromatase inhibitor. 
The MAH is now planning for further clinical trials in the endocrine setting with patients pretreated with 
trastuzumab. 
The  endpoint  PFS  is  liable  to  bias,  the  assessment  of  the  exact  magnitude  of  the  efficacy  of  the 
combination required a clarification of radiologically versus symptomatically assessed patients. Data and 
sensitivity  analyses  showed  that  it  is  admissible  that  despite  the  imbalance  between  the  numbers  of 
patients with symptomatic progression, the difference is maintained. 
No statistically significant difference was seen in the OS, but the data are immature and results  may be 
further diluted after prolonged follow up and use of next-line therapies. Even though currently available 
survival data are considered reassuring, an update is asked for. 
 38
 
 
Risk:  
The  combination  of  letrozole/lapatinib  revealed  no  new  safety  signals  of  importance  compared  to  what 
was known previously. However the high frequency of grade 1-2 diarrhoea and rash is clearly a concern 
from a tolerability perspective.  
The  most  common  serious  adverse  events  were  decreased  ejection  fraction  and  diarrhoea;  however,  the 
event rates were sufficiently low to be seen as acceptable in the context of treatment of metastatic breast 
cancer.  
Nevertheless,  cardiac,  hepatobiliary,  and  pulmonary  events,  although  relatively  rare,  are  matters  of 
concern  due  to  the  potential  seriousness,  warranting  continuous  monitoring  and  risk-management 
measures to allow the detection of a pre-existent deficit predisposing to premature adverse events (case of 
the cardiac toxicity), or the early diagnosis of toxicity manifestations. 
No  different  safety  signals  were  revealed  in  older  patients,  which  is  reassuring  with  regards  to  the 
population intended. 
Balance: 
A  modest  to  moderate  effect  in  terms  of  PFS  prolongation  has  been  shown.  In  individual  patients 
tolerability problems led to discontinuation of therapy. The difference in adverse drug reactions associated 
with  the  combination  consisted  mainly  in  drug  reactions  of  mild  or  moderate  severity  and  is  not 
considered  to  outweigh  the  benefits  observed.  In  conclusion,  the  benefit  –  risk  ratio  is  considered 
favourable.  
1.6  Product Information 
Taking into account the documentation submitted and the assessment of the data as discussed above, the 
CHMP agreed to extend the indication in SPC section 4.1 as follows: 
“Tyverb is indicated for the treatment of patients with breast cancer, whose tumours overexpress HER2 
(ErbB2); 
 in combination with capecitabine for patients with advanced or metastatic disease with 
progression following prior therapy, which must have included anthracyclines and taxanes and 
therapy with trastuzumab in the metastatic setting (see section 5.1). 
 in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for postmenopausal women with hormone receptor 
positive metastatic disease, not currently intended for chemotherapy.  The patients in the 
registration study were not previously treated with trastuzumab or an aromatase inhibitor (See 
section 5.1).” 
SPC  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.3,  4.4,  4.8  and  5.1  have  been  revised  as  a  consequence  of  the  extension  of 
indication. Furthermore, SPC section 6.5, labelling and section 6 of the PL have been updated to reflect 
the additional pack-size of 84 tablets as applied by the MAH. Minor editorial changes were also made to 
the SPC. In addition, the Package Leaflet has been updated in line with the SPC revisions. Annex II has 
been revised to reflect the latest approved RMP version.  Please refer to Annex 1 for the complete revised 
Product Information 
The CHMP considered the request from the MAH acceptable to not pursue the initially proposed separate 
package  leaflets  for  the  two  indications  taking  into  account  the  MAH  proposed  changes  to  SPC  section 
4.1, PL section 1 as well as the proposed restructuring in PL section 3. These revisions should guide the 
potential  user  to  more  easily  identify  the  relevant  prescribed  dose  by  stressing  the  relevant  type  of 
combination  therapy  (keeping  the  same  type  of  terminology  structure)  as  in  section  1  of  the  PL.  The 
CHMP considered all this information vital to eliminate possible confusion for the user of the leaflet and 
yet to be medically correct. 
 39
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  during  the  assessment  the MAH  mentioned  plans  to introduce  bottle  packaging  for  Tyberb  in 
the second half of 2010 with a future variation application. The committee pointed out that in view of the 
agreed combined leaflet it should be considered by the MAH that the bottle size would suit both dosing 
regimens. 
User consultation 
The Package Leaflet (PL) for Tyverb in combination with capecitabine is based on the current approved 
PL, which has proven readability in October 2006 during the review of the initial marketing authorisation 
application, thus the MAH is of the opinion that readability testing is not warranted. 
The changes made to the PL due to product specific information are indeed limited. Since the main issues 
of the package leaflet have already been tested, the CHMP agreed with the MAH that no new user testing 
is considered necessary.  
Braille 
In  accordance  with  Article  56a  of  Directive  2001/  83/  EC,  the  name  of  the  medicinal  product  will  be 
expressed in Braille on the secondary packaging.  
For the present variation the invented name in Braille will be included on the outer boxes. The outer boxes 
contain the invented name in the different strengths, which is acceptable. 
The following information appears in the submitted Product Information, annex IIIA:  
tyverb 250 mg 
This information appears with dots on the proposed mock-ups as submitted with this application and the 
location of the Braille dots could be acceptable. 
2 
CONCLUSION 
On  18  February  2010  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II, Labelling and Package 
Leaflet. 
 40
 
 
 
 
 
 
