EMA/516307/2018 
EMEA/H/C/000795 
Tyverb (lapatinib) 
An overview of Tyverb and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Tyverb and what is it used for? 
Tyverb is a cancer medicine used to treat patients with breast cancer that has been shown to be 
‘expressing’ large amounts of HER2. This means that the cancer produces a specific protein called 
HER2 (also known as ErbB2) in large quantities on the surface of the cancer cells. Tyverb is used in the 
following ways: 
• 
• 
• 
in combination with capecitabine (another cancer medicine) when the cancer is advanced or 
metastatic and got worse following previous treatment including an anthracycline and a taxane 
(other types of cancer medicine), and following treatment of the patient’s metastatic disease with 
trastuzumab (another cancer medicine). ‘Advanced’ means that the cancer has started to spread 
and ‘metastatic’ means that the cancer has already spread to other parts of the body; 
in combination with trastuzumab for metastatic cancer that does not respond to hormones 
(hormone receptor-negative disease), and which got worse when previously treated with a 
combination of trastuzumab and other cancer medicines (chemotherapy);  
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor (another type of cancer medicine) in women who have 
been through the menopause, when the cancer is metastatic and responds to hormones. This 
combination is used in women who do not currently need to receive standard chemotherapy to 
treat their cancer. 
Tyverb contains the active substance lapatinib.  
How is Tyverb used? 
Tyverb can only be obtained with a prescription and should only be started by a doctor who has 
experience in giving cancer medicines. 
Tyverb is available as tablets (250 mg) and the recommended dose is 4 tablets a day when used with 
trastuzumab, 5 tablets a day when it is used with capecitabine, and 6 tablets a day when taken with an 
aromatase inhibitor. All of the tablets must be taken together at the same time every day, at least 1 
hour before or 1 hour after food.  
The doctor may decide to interrupt or stop treatment in patients experiencing certain side effects, 
especially those affecting the heart, lungs or liver. If patients start to take Tyverb again, they may 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
need to use a lower dose. Patients who stop taking Tyverb after developing severe liver problems 
should not start to take the medicine again.  
For more information about using Tyverb, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Tyverb work? 
The active substance in Tyverb, lapatinib, belongs to a group of medicines called protein kinase 
inhibitors. These medicines work by blocking enzymes known as protein kinases, which can be found in 
some receptors (targets) on the surface of cancer cells including HER2. HER2 is a receptor for a 
substance called epidermal growth factor which stimulates the cancer cells to grow uncontrollably. By 
blocking HER2 receptors, Tyverb helps to control growth of the cancer. About a quarter of breast 
cancers produce HER2. 
What benefits of Tyverb have been shown in studies? 
Tyverb in combination with another cancer medicine was shown to be more effective than the 
comparator treatment in three main studies involving women with breast cancer. In all the studies, the 
main measure of effectiveness was how long the patients lived without their disease getting worse, 
which was assessed in scans. The studies also looked at how long the patients survived. 
The first study compared Tyverb in combination with capecitabine, with capecitabine taken alone. It 
involved 408 women with advanced or metastatic disease that was producing large quantities of HER2 
who had already been treated with anthracyclines, taxanes and trastuzumab but whose disease had 
got worse or come back. The women taking Tyverb in combination with capecitabine lived for an 
average of 23.9 weeks without their disease getting worse, as assessed by their doctors, compared 
with 18.3 weeks in the women taking capecitabine alone. Women taking Tyverb with capecitabine 
survived for an average of 75 weeks, and those taking capecitabine alone survived for an average of 
64.7 weeks. 
The second study compared Tyverb alone with a combination of Tyverb plus trastuzumab. It involved 
296 women with metastatic disease that was producing large quantities of HER2 and got worse despite 
treatment with trastuzumab and other cancer medicines (including anthracyclines and taxanes). 
Women taking Tyverb with trastuzumab lived without their disease getting worse for 12.0 weeks on 
average, compared with 8.1 weeks in those taking Tyverb alone. In addition, women taking the 
combination survived for 14.0 months on average, compared with 9.5 months in those taking Tyverb 
alone.  
The third study compared Tyverb with placebo (a dummy treatment), both of which were taken 
together with letrozole (an aromatase inhibitor). It involved 1,286 women who had been through the 
menopause with metastatic breast cancer that was sensitive to hormones. 219 of the women had 
cancer that was producing large quantities of HER2. The women had not received trastuzumab or an 
aromatase inhibitor before entering this study. The women whose cancer was producing large 
quantities of HER2 taking Tyverb in combination with letrozole survived for an average of 35.4 weeks 
without their disease getting worse. This compared with 13.0 weeks in those taking placebo in 
combination with letrozole. 
What are the risks associated with Tyverb? 
The most common side effects with Tyverb (which may affect more than 1 in 4 patients) are rash and 
side effects affecting the stomach and gut (such as diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick) and vomiting). 
Tyverb (lapatinib)  
EMA/516307/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (rash and numbness on the palms and soles) is also very common 
when Tyverb is taken with capecitabine. For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Tyverb, see 
the package leaflet. 
Why is Tyverb authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Tyverb’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. Tyverb in combination with other cancer medicines has been shown to 
improve survival of patients with breast cancer that produces large quantities of HER2, and its side 
effects are considered acceptable.  
Tyverb was originally given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there was more evidence to come 
about the effectiveness of the medicine. As the company has supplied the additional information 
necessary, the authorisation has been switched from conditional to full approval. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tyverb? 
The company that markets Tyverb will evaluate ways to predict resistance (the medicine becoming less 
effective) in breast cancer patients taking Tyverb with other cancer medicines. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tyverb have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Tyverb are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Tyverb are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Tyverb 
Tyverb received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 10 June 2008. This 
was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 17 February 2015. 
Further information on Tyverb can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2018.  
Tyverb (lapatinib)  
EMA/516307/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
