27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/496213/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Tyverb  
International non-proprietary name: LAPATINIB 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000795/II/0022 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents  
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Type II variation .................................................................................................. 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 6 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.3. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ........................................................... 9 
2.2.4. Discussion on non-clinical aspects........................................................................ 9 
2.2.5. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .................................................................. 9 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 9 
2.3.2. Clinical pharmacology ...................................................................................... 11 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 13 
2.3.4. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 14 
2.3.5. Clinical efficacy ............................................................................................... 14 
2.3.6. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 44 
2.3.7. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 48 
2.3.8. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 49 
2.3.9. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 64 
2.3.10. Conclusions on clinical safety .......................................................................... 65 
2.3.11. PSUR cycle .................................................................................................... 65 
2.4. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 65 
2.5. Update of the Product information ........................................................................ 70 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 71 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 73 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 2/77 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
Clinical Study Report 
ACSR / aCSR  Abbreviated Clinical Study Report 
AE Adverse event 
AKT 58kDa serine/threonine protein kinase B 
(PKB) 
ALP Alkaline phosphatase 
ALT (SGPT) Alanine aminotransferase 
ALTTO Adjuvant lapatinib and/or trastuzumab 
treatment optimization 
ANC Absolute neutrophil count 
AST (SGOT) Aspartate aminotransferase 
ATC Anatomical therapeutic classification 
β-hCG Beta human chorionic gonadotropin 
BOND Bowel Oncology with Cetuximab Antibody 
CBR Clinical Benefit response Rate 
CI Confidence interval 
CNS Central nervous system 
CR Complete response 
CSR 
CT Computerized tomography 
CTC Common toxicity criteria 
CTCAE Common terminology criteria for adverse 
events 
dL Deciliter 
DOR Duration of Response 
ECD Extracellular domain 
ECG Electrocardiogram 
ECHO Echocardiogram 
ECOG Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
eCRF Electronic case report form 
EGFR Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, also 
known as ErbB1 or HER-1 
ER Oestrogen receptor 
ErbB1 EGFR, c-ErbB1, HER-1 
ErbB2 c-ErbB2, also known as p185 
ELISA Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
FACT-B Functional assessment of cancer therapy-
breast 
FACT-G Functional assessment of cancer therapy-
general 
FDA Food and Drug Administration 
FISH Fluorescence in situ hybridization 
GCP Good clinical practice 
GSK GlaxoSmithKline 
HER2 c-ErbB2, also known as p185 
HLQ Higher limit of quantification 
HPLC High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
ICF Informed consent form 
IEC Independent ethics committee 
IgM Immunoglobulin 
IHC Immunohistochemistry 
IRB Institutional review board 
IRC Independent review committee 
ITT Intent-to-treat 
IV Intravenous 
IVR Interactive voice response 
L Liter 
LD Longest diameter 
EGF104900 
LLN Lower limit of normal 
LLQ Lower limit of quantification 
LOCF Last observation carried forward 
LVEF Left ventricular ejection fraction 
MAPK Mitogen activated protein kinase 
MBC Metastatic breast cancer 
MedDRA Medical dictionary for regulatory 
activities 
mg Milligrams 
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram 
mg/dL Milligrams per deciliter 
mg/mL Milligrams per milliliter 
mL/min Milliliters per minute 
MRI Magnetic resonance imaging 
MUGA Multigated acquisition 
MS Mass Spectrometry 
NCI National cancer institute 
NOS Not otherwise specified 
ORR Overall tumour response rate 
OS Overall survival 
OTR Optimally tolerated regimen 
PD Progressive disease 
PFS Progression-free survival 
PgR Progesterone Receptor 
PGx Pharmacogenetic 
PP Per protocol 
PR Partial response 
QOL Quality of life 
RAMOS Registration and medication ordering 
system 
RAP Reporting and analysis plan 
RECIST Response evaluation criteria in solid 
tumors 
SAE Serious adverse event 
SAG Scientific Advisory Group 
SCE 
SD Stable disease 
SOC System organ class 
TKI Tyrosine-kinase inhibitors 
TOI Trial outcome index 
TTP Time to progression 
TTR Time To Response 
ULN Upper limit of normal 
Summary of Clinical Efficacy 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 3/77 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Glaxo Group Ltd. submitted to 
the European Medicines Agency on 16 February 2012 an application for an extension of indication 
variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
Tyverb 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
name: 
LAPATINIB 
See Annex A 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
The MAH applied for an extension of the indication for treatment of patients with breast cancer, whose 
tumours overexpress HER2 (ErbB2), in combination with trastuzumab for patients with metastatic 
disease that has progressed on prior trastuzumab therapy(ies). Consequently, the MAH proposed the 
update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC.  
The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
The variation proposed amendments to the SmPC, Annex II and Package Leaflet. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/47/2008 on the granting of a class waiver.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Bengt Ljungberg  
Co-Rapporteur: Bruno Sepodes 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 4/77 
 
 
 
 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
16 February 2012 
26 February 2012 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
20 April 2012 
circulated on: 
Co-Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
30 April 2012 
circulated on: 
Request for supplementary information and 
24 May 2012 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
15 August 2012 
(Co-)Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment report 
4 October 2012 
on the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
(Co-)Rapporteurs’ final assessment report on the 
15 October 2012 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
2nd Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
 MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
(Co-)Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment report 
18 October 2012 
  12 December 2012 
on the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
4 February 2013 
(Co-)Rapporteurs’ final assessment report on the 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
3rd Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
15 February 2013 
21 February 2013 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
26 March 2013 
(Co-)Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment report 
on the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
13 May 2013 
SAG experts meeting to address questions raised 
by the CHMP (Annex 6) 
14 May 2013 
(Co-)Rapporteurs’ updated assessment report on 
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
An Oral explanation took place on: 
4th Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
17 May 2013 
27 May 2013 
30 May 2013 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
4 June 2013 
(Co-)Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment report 
on the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
13 June 2013 
(Co-)Rapporteurs’ updated assessment report on 
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
24 June 2013 
27 June 2013 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Tyverb (lapatinib) is a reversible tyrosine kinase inhibitor that potently inhibits both epidermal growth 
factor receptor (EGFR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). Clinical evidence has 
shown the efficacy of lapatinib in HER2-positive breast cancer. Tyverb is currently approved for use in 
the following indications: 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 5/77 
 
 
 
 
Tyverb is indicated for the treatment of patients with breast cancer, whose tumours overexpress HER2 
(ErbB2); 
• in combination with capecitabine for patients with advanced or metastatic disease with progression 
following prior therapy, which must have included anthracyclines and taxanes and therapy with 
trastuzumab in the metastatic setting. 
• in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for postmenopausal women with hormone receptor 
positive metastatic disease, not currently intended for chemotherapy. The patients in the registration 
study were not previously treated with trastuzumab or an aromatase inhibitor. No data are available on 
the efficacy of this combination relative to trastuzumab in combination with an aromatase inhibitor in 
this patient population. 
Historically, cytotoxic chemotherapy has been an essential component of systemic palliative therapy 
for patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC). However, several studies have shown that cytotoxic 
therapy in the absence of anti-HER2 targeted therapy in HER2-positive MBC has decreased efficacy 
(Cancello, 2008; Fabi, 2008; Park, 2009; Seidman, 2008; von Minckwitz, 2009), and is therefore no 
longer recommended as a standard of care for this patient population (National Comprehensive Cancer 
Network (NCCN) Guidelines, 2011; European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) Guidelines, Cardoso 
2011; Japanese Breast Cancer Society Guidelines, 2011). Lapatinib and trastuzumab (in combination 
with chemotherapies) are both anti-HER2 therapies approved for the treatment of HER2-positive MBC. 
Trastuzumab is indicated as single agent, as well as in combination with other therapies, whereas 
lapatinib is only authorised for combination therapy.  
The present variation application is to extend the indication of Tyverb for the treatment of patients 
with breast cancer, whose tumours overexpress HER2 (ErbB2), in combination with trastuzumab for 
patients with metastatic disease that has progressed on prior trastuzumab therapy(ies). 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The pharmacology, pharmacokinetics characteristics and toxicity of lapatinib have been assessed at the 
time of the initial marketing authorisation application (MAA). With this application only a small number 
of studies with direct relevance to the applied indication were submitted by the MAH.  
Type of Study 
Lapatinib synergy with anti-ErbB2 antibodies 
Effects of lapatinib on phosphorylation, 
activity and expression of ErbB1, ErbB2, Akt 
and Erk1/2 and epidermal growth factor 
Efficacy of lapatinib in combination with 
trastuzumab, vinorelbine, and gemcitabine 
Species (Strain)/ Test 
System 
BT474 cell line 
S1, HN5, BT474 and 
HB4a cell lines 
BT474, SKBR3, BT-TR 
and SK-TR SUM225 
breast cancer cell lines 
Method of 
Administration 
In vitro 
In vitro 
Report No. 
RH2006/00067/01 
RH2006/00066/01 
In vitro 
2011N127934_00 
2.2.2.  Pharmacology 
To support the mechanistic plausibility of the applied indication for Tyverb, the MAH presented data 
from two pharmacology studies previously submitted at the time of initial MAA and conducted with the 
lapatinib/trastuzumab combination as well as the results of one new primary pharmacology study: 
•  RH2006/00067/01 - Evaluation of the synergy of lapatinib with anti-ErbB2 antibodies  
This study was conducted to determine whether the killing of ErbB2 overexpressing breast cancer cells 
could be enhanced by combining lapatinib ditosylate monohydrate with anti-ErbB2 antibodies, 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 6/77 
 
 
 
trastuzumab, or polyclonal antisera generated by vaccination of rabbits with human ErbB2 fusion 
protein (pAb), following incubation for 72 h. Further examination of lapatinib and these antibodies 
effects on survivin was also conducted. Survivin is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis family of 
proteins that protects tumours from programmed cell death following activation of intrinsic or extrinsic 
apoptotic pathways. Analysis of protein expression and phosphorylation was conducted by Western 
Blot. Apoptosis was quantitatively assessed by flow cytometry analysis and annexin V staining. 
A concentration of lapatinib was used (100 nM) that by itself did not induce significant apoptosis in 
ErbB2 overexpressing breast cancer cells, in order to evaluate whether lapatinib would elicit synergistic 
anti-tumour activity when combined with anti-ErbB2 antibodies. Treating BT474 breast cancer cells 
with sub-lethal concentrations of lapatinib alone resulted in decreased protein expression of 
phosphorylated ErbB2, phosphorylated Akt, phosphorylated Erk1/2, and survivin, with an increase in 
tumour cell apoptosis of approximately 20%. pAb alone reduced total ErbB2 (100 to 200 μg/mL), 
reduced phosphorylated Erk1/2 and ErbB3 (100 μg/mL), and caused complete loss of phosphorylated 
Akt expression (100 μg/mL), although survivin protein remained unchanged and cell survival was less 
affected. Trastuzumab (10 μg/mL) caused less inhibition of phosphorylated ErbB2, phosphorylated 
Erk1/2, and survivin, whereas phosphorylated Akt was decreased to a similar extent; consequently cell 
survival was less affected than treatment with lapatinib alone. Combining lapatinib with either pAb or 
trastuzumab resulted in complete loss of survivin protein with a marked induction of tumour cell 
apoptosis (40% of cell population were positive for Annexin V). Down-regulation of survivin rather than 
inhibition of p-Erk1/2 and/or p-Akt correlated with induction of apoptosis. 
Antibodies, especially polyclonal antisera such as pAb, reduced ErbB2 signalling by down-regulating 
ErbB2 protein expression through receptor endocytosis [Park, 1992; Maier, 1991], an activity not 
shared by lapatinib. The combination of lapatinib and anti-ErbB2 antibodies led to the complete 
inhibition of phosphorylated ErbB2.  
•  RH2006/00066/01 - Effects of lapatinib on phosphorylation, activity and expression of ErbB1, 
ErbB2, Akt and Erk1/2 and EGF  
This study only examined the effect of the two agents in combination by their ability to inhibit 
phosphorylation of proteins in the pathway, and did not evaluate the combined effect on growth 
inhibition.  
In BT474 cells incubated with 1 μM lapatinib for 24 hours, epidermal grow factor (EGF) (50 ng/mL) 
was unable to stimulate phosphorylation of Erk1/2 or Akt. Treating HN5 cells with 5 μM lapatinib 
inhibited baseline levels of phosphorylated ErbB1 and blocked the stimulatory effect of EGF on 
phosphorylation of ErbB1, Erk1 and Erk2. The effects of lapatinib (0.5 or 1 μM) were further compared 
to those of trastuzumab (10 μg/mL) on phosphorylation of Erk1/2 in both BT474 and HN5 cells 
following 72 hours exposure. The effect observed with trastuzumab was limited on levels of 
phosphorylated Erk1/2 compared with untreated controls in either cell line, while lapatinib inhibited 
phosphorylated Erk1/2 at either dose in both BT474 and HN5 cells.  
In S1 cells (mammary epithelial cells which express high levels of phosphorylated erbB2), lapatinib 
caused dose dependent inhibition of ErbB2 tyrosine phosphorylation following incubation for 72 h: 
partial inhibition was seen at 0.5 μM and with complete inhibition at 2.5 μM. After incubation for 72 h, 
lapatinib inhibited activated phosphorylated Erk1/2 by more than 50% at 0.5 and 2.5 μM, with 100% 
inhibition at 5 μM. Total steady state Erk protein remained unchanged. The effects of lapatinib on cell 
survival were then assessed in exponentially growing S1 cells. Treatment with lapatinib for 72 h 
resulted in an increase in the percentage of apoptotic cells from 2% to 46% (23-fold).  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 7/77 
 
 
 
In Hb4a cells (mammary epithelial line that expresses low levels of both erbB2 and EGFR), lapatinib (5 
μM) reduced baseline phosphorylated ErbB1 levels and blocked the stimulatory effects of EGF on ErbB1 
tyrosine phosphorylation. Similarly, lapatinib reduced the baseline amount of phosphorylated ErbB2 
and Erk, effects not reversed by EGF. In Hb4a cells after 72h exposure to trastuzumab (10 μg/mL), 
there was relatively little change in baseline levels of phosphorylated ErbB2 or Erk levels, while total 
ErbB2 steady state protein was reduced. 
Concurrent treatment with lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab did not reduce levels of 
phosphorylated ErbB2 or Erk below those observed following treatment with lapatinib alone. 
In Hb4a cells, EGF (50 ng/mL) stimulated cell growth by 20% over vehicle treated controls, while 
treatment with lapatinib (2.5 μM) inhibited cell growth by 50%. EGF was unable to reverse lapatinib 
induced growth inhibition.  
•  2011N127934_00 - Drug interactions with lapatinib in trastuzumab conditioned HER2 amplified 
breast cancer cell lines  
This study was conducted to examine the preclinical efficacy of two commonly used chemotherapy 
combinations with trastuzumab in trastuzumab conditioned cell lines and compare the efficacy with 
that seen when using lapatinib instead of trastuzumab. The following drug combinations were tested in 
vitro using cell proliferation assays in five breast cancer cell lines (BT474, SKBR3, and SUM225, BT-TR 
and SK-TR, the latter two lines being trastuzumab-conditioned breast cancer cell lines): lapatinib and 
trastuzumab, lapatinib and gemcitabine, lapatinib and vinorelbine, trastuzumab and gemcitabine, 
trastuzumab and vinorelbine.  
Trastuzumab responses by 3D assay were similar to those observed in 2D culture. Using a cut-off of 
less than 1.2 fold decrease in proliferation by 2D assay and less than 20% decrease in colony number 
by 3D assay, the SUM-225, were classified as resistant (R) to trastuzumab by both assays. Lapatinib 
inhibited the proliferation of each of the cell lines in a concentration dependent manner. All of the cell 
lines were responsive to lapatinib when grown in soft agar in the presence of the IC50 concentration of 
lapatinib as determined by 2D assay. 
Models of acquired trastuzumab resistance were established by culturing the trastuzumab sensitive 
breast cancer cell lines in 105 μg/ml trastuzumab for nine months. Trastuzumab inhibited the 
proliferation of the parental BT474 cells by 5.00 fold compared to 1.16 fold for the BT-TR cells by 2D 
assay. Using a cut-off of less than 1.2 fold decrease in proliferation by 2D assay and less than 20% 
decrease in colony number by 3D assay, the SUM-225, were classified as resistant (R) to trastuzumab 
by both assays.  
Full-length and p95HER2 protein levels (a truncated form of ErbB2 resistant to trastuzumab) were 
unchanged in the BT-TR cells. Significantly increased levels of phosphorylated ErbB2 were detected. 
The BT-TR cells were sensitive (IC50 = 77 nM) to lapatinib. Significantly increased levels of pAKT were 
also detected in the BT-TR cell line. 
The role of receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) activation in acquired trastuzumab resistance was also 
investigated. No significant difference in total or phosphorylated HER3 or IGF-1R was detected in the 
BT-TR cells relative to parental cells. However, phosphorylation of EGFR was significantly increased in 
the trastuzumab conditioned cells. 
Multiple drug effect analysis was done using five HER2-overexpressing established human breast 
cancer cell lines to determine the nature of the interaction between lapatinib and trastuzumab 
(synergy, addition, or antagonism). The drug concentrations used for these experiments ranged 
between 0.039 and 5.0 μmol/L for lapatinib, 2.8 and 720 nM for trastuzumab, 0.8 and 200 nM for 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 8/77 
 
 
 
gemcitabine, and 0.07 and 18 nM for vinorelbine and were below the reported peak plasma 
concentrations achievable in humans for all drugs.  BT474 and SKBR3 cells showed synergistic drug 
interactions. Trastuzumab resistant cell lines BT-TR and SK-TR lines also showed synergistic drug 
interactions between lapatinib and trastuzumab. This effect was not seen it the SUM225 cells that were 
intrinsically resistant to trastuzumab. 
2.2.3.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No increased use of lapatinib is expected with this combination with trastuzumab which is to be 
administered to patients who would already be eligible for lapatinib at a dose lower than the dose 
currently approved for its use with capecitabine. Therefore, no need for further update of the initial 
environmental risk assessment (ERA) has been identified.  
2.2.4.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Overall, based on the in vitro studies described there was a possibility of a synergic effect between 
lapatinib and trastuzumab, or a possible benefit of adding lapatinib to trastuzumab therapy. The sites 
of action of lapatinib and trastuzumab were not coincident. While trastuzumab seemed to bind in a 
juxtamembrane region of the ErbB2 receptor not involved in receptor dimerization, which it inhibited, 
lapatinib binded ErbB2 in the ATP site and inhibited the tyrosine kinase activity located in the 
intracellular domains of ErbB2 and its co-receptor EGFR and the phosphorylation of both ErbB2 and 
EGFR were blocked. From a mechanistic point of view, it could therefore be justified to consider the 
association of lapatinib to trastuzumab to strengthen the ErbB2 blockade and cut the downstream 
cascade more efficiently than each of the molecules separately. However, since the true binding sites 
for trastuzumab and the mechanisms of trastuzumab resistance, as well as the different cross talk 
aspects of the ErbB2 domains to other cascades were not fully clarified, the plausibility might not 
reflect the reality in the complex environment of tumour cells. Thus, only the principle was supported 
by the results of in vitro studies in trastuzumab sensitive and trastuzumab resistant tumour cell lines.  
In vitro studies to investigate the effect trastuzumab may have on the modulation of the CYP enzymes 
and transporters important to lapatinib metabolism have not been submitted.  
No toxicity studies with the combination lapatinib and trastuzumab were submitted which was 
considered acceptable since the toxicities of both molecules are well known and did not suggest 
possibilities for potentiation. 
The updated data submitted in this application did not lead to a significant increase in environmental 
exposure further to the use of lapatinib. The CHMP considered that the existing ERA for lapatinib 
adequately covered this application. Lapatinib should continue to be used according to the precautions 
currently stated in the SmPC in order to minimise any potential risks to the environment. 
2.2.5.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
In conclusion, the non-clinical pharmacology studies submitted supported the proposed combination of 
lapatinib with trastuzumab.  
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 9/77 
 
 
 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. A routine GCP 
inspection was performed in three study sites with no critical findings. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Clinical pharmacology studies 
Type of 
study 
Study 
objective
(s) 
Stud
y 
desig
n 
Key 
inclusio
n 
criteria 
Study 
Identifi
er / 
Reporti
ng 
Status 
Safety, 
tolerability,
PK 
EGF1002
3 
Complet
ed 
Optimal 
tolerated 
dose, 
clinical 
activity 
O, 
NR, 
DR, 
XO 
(PK) 
EGF1056
35 
Complet
ed 
Safety, 
tolerability, 
PK 
O, 
NR, 
DR, 
Optimal 
tolerated 
dose, 
clinical 
activity 
Subjects 
with 
breast 
cancer 
over-
expressi
ng 
ErbB2 
Subjects 
with 
breast 
cancer 
over-
expressi
ng 
ErbB2 
No. of 
Subjec
ts 
Gende
r M/F 
Mean 
Age 
(Rang
e) 
54 
(0/54) 
53y (30 
– 80y) 
Treatment Details 
(Drug/Dose/Form/Route/Frequency
/Duration 
Lapatinib: 750mg – 1500mg PO QD 
Trastuzumab IV 4mg/kg loading dose (90 
min IV infusion) + 2mg/kg IV weekly (90 
min IV infusion) 
6 (0/6) 
Lapatinib: 750mg – 1000mg PO QD 
Trastuzumab IV 4mg/kg loading dose (90 
min IV infusion) + 2mg/kg IV weekly (90 
min IV infusion) 
O = Open; SB = Single Blind; DB = Double Blind; UC = Uncontrolled; PLC = Placebo; AC = Active control; R = Random; 
NR = Non-random; PRL = Parallel; XO = Crossover; DR = Dose Rising; F – Female; M – Male. 
Main clinical efficacy studies 
Study 
Design 
Study 
Objective(s) 
Diagnosis of 
Subjects 
Total No. of 
Subjects 
Treatment Details 
Study 
Identifier 
/Reporting 
Status 
EGF104900 
Pivotal 
Completed 
Phase 3, 
randomised, 
two-arm, 
open label 
Safety, 
efficacy, 
pharmaco-
genetics 
EGF106903 
Supportive 
Phase 3, 
randomised, 
three-arm, 
open label 
Efficacy,  
safety, 
biomarker 
Ongoing 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Metastatic 
setting. Subjects 
with advanced or 
metastatic breast 
cancer whose 
disease has 
progressed on a 
trastuzumab 
containing regimen 
Neoadjuvant 
setting. 
Subjects with 
HER2/ErbB2 over-
expressing and/or 
amplified primary 
breast cancer 
N=296 
Lapatinib + 
Trastuzumab=148 
Lapatinib 
alone=148 
Lapatinib 1000 mg PO 
QD + trastuzumab 4 
mg/kg IV load and 2 
mg/kg IV weekly  
vs.  
Lapatinib 1500 mg PO 
QD 
N=455 
Neoadjuvantly, for a 
total of 6 weeks: 
Lapatinib 1500 mg OD;  
vs. 
Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV 
load followed by 2 mg/kg 
IV weekly,  
vs. 
Lapatinib 1000 mg OD 
with trastuzumab 4 
mg/kg IV load followed 
by 2 mg/kg IV weekly. 
This is followed by 
Page 10/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LPT109096 
Supportive 
Phase 2, 
randomised, 
three-arm, 
open label 
Ongoing 
Efficacy 
safety, 
biomarker, 
pharmaco-
genetics 
N=109 
Neoadjuvant 
setting. 
Subjects with 
invasive HER2 over-
expressing breast 
cancer who have 
had no previous 
chemotherapy 
combination with 
paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 for 
12 weeks followed by 
definitive surgery 
(lapatinib dose 750 
mg/day in combination 
with trastuzumab). 
After surgery, patients 
will receive 3 courses of 
adjuvant chemotherapy 
with FEC, followed by the 
same targeted therapy 
as in the neoadjuvant 
setting to a total 
duration of the anti-
HER2 therapy of 52 
weeks. (lapatinib dose 
1000 mg/day in 
combination with 
trastuzumab).  
Arm 1: Trastuzumab 4 
mg/kg IV load followed 
by 2 mg/kg IV weekly,  
vs.  
Arm 2: Lapatinib 1250 
mg PO QD, 
vs.  
Arm 3: trastuzumab 
(given as on Arm 1) and 
lapatinib 750 mg PO QD 
during  
run-in and FEC therapy, 
then 1000 mg during the 
Paclitaxel therapy. 
Each arm will receive 
study drug treatment for 
14 days, then study drug 
treatment + FEC75 for 
12 weeks, then study 
drug treatment + 
paclitaxel for 12 weeks 
2.3.2.  Clinical pharmacology 
2.3.2.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic data for lapatinib were submitted and evaluated previously within the initial MAA, 
subsequent post-authorisation measures and variations. As part of the current application, the MAH 
submitted the results of two clinical studies EGF10023 and EGF105635 as listed in the above table.  
Study EGF10023 
Methods 
This was a phase I, open-label study designed to determine the safety, tolerability, optimally tolerated 
regimen (OTR), and pharmacokinetics (PK) of lapatinib and trastuzumab in combination in patients 
with breast cancer whose tumours over expressed HER2.  
Lapatinib was administered orally, once daily on a continuous basis starting with a dose of 1000 
mg/day and trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV loading dose (90-min IV infusion) with weekly doses of 2 mg/kg 
IV (90-min IV infusion). Planned doses of lapatinib were 750 mg/day to 1500 mg/day. Trastuzumab 
doses were not escalated or reduced but administered at the dose and schedule noted above. Cohorts 
of at least three subjects were enrolled at each dose level and monitored for toxicity. Dose escalation 
or reduction of lapatinib in subsequent cohorts was based on observed toxicity. The OTR was defined 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 11/77 
 
 
 
 
as the highest dose of lapatinib that could be administered with trastuzumab at which no more than 
one of six subjects experienced dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). 
During the first part of the study, the OTR was defined as 1000 mg lapatinib once daily with a standard 
regimen of trastuzumab (4 mg/kg loading dose followed by 2 mg/kg weekly). Once the OTR was 
determined, up to 18 additional subjects were to be enrolled at this dose level to characterise the PK 
profiles of lapatinib and trastuzumab after administration of the three treatments: lapatinib alone, 
trastuzumab alone, and both in combination. Subjects were randomised into one of two treatment 
sequences.  In sequence 1, subjects were administered lapatinib alone in treatment period 1 week 1, 
trastuzumab alone in week 2, and the combination of the two drugs in week 3. In sequence 2, subjects 
were administered lapatinib alone in treatment period 1 week 1, the combination of the two drugs in 
week 2, and trastuzumab alone in week 3. Pharmacokinetic sampling occurred over a 24-hour period 
on day 7 of each treatment week. The sampling period occurred on day 7 of lapatinib dosing or on the 
day of trastuzumab dosing.  
Enzyme immunoassay (EIA) was used to determine trastuzumab, a humanized anti-human HER-2 
receptor antibody, in human EDTA plasma. The calibration range was 5.00 to 100 μg/mL trastuzumab 
using a 50 μL aliquot of human plasma and the range of quantisation for the assay was 10.0 (LLQ) to 
100 (HLQ) μg/mL. Human EDTA plasma samples were analysed for lapatinib using a validated 
analytical method based on protein precipitation, followed by HPLC/MS/MS analysis. The LLQ for 
lapatinib was 5 ng/mL using a 25 μL aliquot of human plasma with a HLQ of 5000 ng/mL.  
Results 
Dose-finding levels, dose-limiting toxicities and a summary of clinical activity results are presented 
under section 2.4.1, Dose-response study. 
Pharmacokinetic results 
In total, 24 evaluable subjects were included in the pharmacokinetic evaluation. Pharmacokinetic data 
were obtained from 24 subjects on lapatinib alone, 23 subjects on trastuzumab alone, and 22 subjects 
on both drugs in combination. The pharmacokinetic results for lapatinib and trastuzumab are shown in 
Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. The data indicated no effect of trastuzumab on lapatinib AUC(0-tau), 
Cmax, or Tmax. Also, lapatinib had no effect on trastuzumab AUC(0-24), Cmax, or Tmax.  
Table 1 . Summary of lapatinib (1000 mg daily) pharmacokinetic parameters and statistical 
results with and without trastuzumab (2 mg/kg weekly) 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 12/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Summary of trastuzumab (2 mg/kg weekly) pharmacokinetic parameters and 
statistical results with and without co-administration of lapatinib (1000 mg daily) 
Study EGF105635 
Methods 
This phase I/II study evaluating lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab in patients with breast 
cancer previously treated with trastuzumab was conducted in Japanese subjects. The phase I part 
intended to confirm the recommended dose (as defined in study EGF10023), while the phase II part 
intended to confirm the safety and clinical response (tumour response rate) at the recommended dose. 
Female or male subjects with breast cancer tumours exhibiting ErbB2 over-expression who had 
received standard trastuzumab therapy for at least 6 weeks and had disease progression or relapse 
after the start of the last prior therapy were to be enrolled.  
Results 
Six subjects were enrolled. In the phase I part of the study, three female subjects each received daily 
750 mg or 1000 mg oral lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab (4 mg/kg i.v. in the first week 
followed by 2 mg/kg i.v. weekly). The recommended dose of lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab 
was determined to be 1000 mg/day for Japanese subjects. The study was terminated prior to Phase II. 
Pharmacokinetic results 
Only a synopsis of the study report was submitted without detailed pharmacokinetic data.  According 
to the study synopsis, pharmacokinetic results suggested that there was greater inter-individual 
variations in the plasma concentrations of lapatinib administered with trastuzumab than when lapatinib 
was administered alone (between-study comparison using data from the first-time use in human 
Japanese study). When lapatinib and trastuzumab were combined, AUC0-168hr and t½ for plasma 
trastuzumab concentrations were 4763.34 to 7137.24 hr•μg/mL and 79.06 to 112.24 hr, respectively.  
2.3.2.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamics data were provided within the application. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The data from Study EGF10023 indicated no pharmacokinetic interaction between lapatinib and 
trastuzumab. This is in line with what would have been expected based on mechanistic considerations, 
as lapatinib is a small molecule primarily metabolised via CYP3A4, and has been shown to be a weak 
CYP3A4/Pgp inhibitor, while trastuzumab is a monoclonal antibody not expected to be dependent on or 
to affect cytochrome P450.  
Data from the combination study EGF105635 were very limited (n=6) and no detailed data were 
submitted. In addition, no conclusions can be drawn based on a between-study comparison. However, 
this is not considered of relevance for the current variation.  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 13/77 
 
 
 
 
2.3.4.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Based on the available data, no pharmacokinetic interactions between lapatinib and trastuzumab have 
been observed. The pharmacokinetics of lapatinib is adequately reflected in the current product 
information. 
2.3.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.3.5.1.  Dose response study 
Study EGF10023 
This was a phase I open-label study conducted to determine the safety, tolerability, optimally tolerated 
regimen (OTR), and pharmacokinetics of lapatinib and trastuzumab in combination. The method and 
pharmacokinetics results are presented under section 2.3.2, Pharmacokinetics. Fifty-four subjects with 
breast cancer whose tumours over-expressed HER2 were enrolled into three cohorts. Twenty-seven 
subjects were entered into the dose escalation and OTR expansion cohort and 24 subjects were 
entered into the pharmacokinetic cohort. Mean age was 53 years (range 30-80) and ethnicity was 
white in 85%. Out of 54 subjects, 50 had received prior trastuzumab therapy.  
OTR endpoint 
A dose regimen where ≤ one out of six (i.e. ≤ 16.7%) subjects experienced a dose-limiting toxicity 
(DLT) was defined as the OTR. DLT was defined as Grade 3 or 4 clinically significant non-
haematological toxicity (excluding Grade 3 nausea), Grade 4 granulocytopenia lasting at least five 
days, thrombocytopenia (≤ 25,000/mm3), or any Grade 2 non-haematological toxicity that persisted 
beyond the initial 4-week treatment period and was considered to be dose limiting by the investigator 
and medical monitor. 
Table 3. Dose-finding levels for lapatinib in combination with standard dose trastuzumab, 
Study EGF10023 
Total n in dose-
Lapatinib dose 
Lapatinib dose 
Lapatinib dose 
Lapatinib dose 
escalating cohort: 
level -1  
level 0  
level +1  
level +2  
27 
(750 mg/D) 
(1000 mg/D) 
(1250 mg/D) 
(1500mg/D) 
N /level 
3 
11 
10 
3 
DLT, n (%) 
0 (0) 
1 (9.1) 
2 (20.0) 
2 (66.7) 
Table 4. Dose-limiting toxicities in the dose-escalating cohort of Study EGF10023 
Subject  
Lapatinib dose level 
DLT 
Grade 
Study day 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
1000 mg/D 
Weakness (asthenia) and fatigue  
1250 mg/D 
Pain related to rash on scalp and face 
Generalised rash and pruritus 
Vaginal itching 
1250 mg/D 
Diarrhoea 
1500mg/D 
Fatigue 
1500mg/D 
Diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting  
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
Day 3 
Day 11 
Day 31 
Day 36 
Day 15 
Day 15 
Day 9 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 14/77 
 
 
 
 
Hypokalaemia 
4 
Day 12 
The OTR was determined to be lapatinib 1000 mg/day plus trastuzumab 2 mg/kg administered weekly. 
Table 5. Summary of Confirmed Clinical Activity, Study EGF10023 
Note: Cohort 1= Dose-escalation phase of the study (total n= 27); Cohort 3 (PK) = sequence 1 was 
lapatinib/trastuzumab/both 
Based on the DLT and clinical activity observed, 1000 mg lapatinib and standard dose trastuzumab was 
determined as the dose of Phase II studies. 
The most common drug related AEs reported in this study were diarrhoea (81%), rash (54%), fatigue 
(52%), and nausea (50%). No drug-related deaths were reported. No clinically significant changes 
were observed for any laboratory value or vital sign. 
2.3.5.2.  Main studies 
This application was supported by one phase III pivotal study in the metastatic setting (Study 
EGF104900) and two supportive studies in the neo-adjuvant setting: a phase III study (EGF106903) 
and a phase II study (LPT109096). 
Pivotal study EGF104900 
The original Clinical Study Report (CSR) dated 10 September 2008 was submitted with a Renewal 
procedure in 2009. This included efficacy results on the primary endpoint, progression free survival 
(PFS), and on secondary endpoints, overall survival (OS), overall tumour response rate (ORR), clinical 
benefit response rate (CBR), time to response (TTR), duration of response (DOR). An end-of-study 
abbreviated clinical study report (ACSR), dated 2 February 2012 was submitted with the present 
application. This contained updated OS results, and biomarker results. 
Methods 
Study participants 
Eligible subjects were women ≥ 18 years with a confirmed diagnosis of HER2-positive MBC, Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 to 2, and left ventricular ejection fraction 
(LVEF) within institutional normal range. They were required to have received previous treatment with 
a taxane and an anthracycline, and had documented progression on at least one trastuzumab-
containing regimen in the metastatic setting. The most recent treatment prior to study entry must 
have contained trastuzumab, either alone or in combination with other therapy in the metastatic 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 15/77 
 
 
 
 
 
setting and subjects must have progressed while on this regimen. Subjects were required to have bone 
only disease or measurable disease by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST).  
The main inclusion and exclusion criteria are provided below: 
Inclusion criteria 
- Female of ≥18 years. Women of childbearing potential were to have a negative serum pregnancy test 
at screening and were to use an approved contraceptive method, if appropriate (for example, 
intrauterine device, birth control pills, or barrier device) beginning 2 weeks before the first dose of 
study treatment and for 28 days after the final dose of study treatment. 
- Had histologically/cytologically confirmed MBC. If the disease was restricted to a solitary lesion, its 
neoplastic nature was confirmed by cytology or histology 
- Had Stage IV breast cancer whereby their disease had progressed in either the adjuvant or 
metastatic setting. Prior therapies were to include, but were not limited to: Taxane-containing regimen 
for at least 4 cycles, or for 2 cycles provided disease progression occurred while on taxane; 
Anthracycline-containing regimen for at least 4 cycles, or for 2 cycles provided disease progression 
occurred while on anthracycline. 
- Had documented progression following at least one trastuzumab plus cytotoxic chemotherapy or anti-
hormonal regimen in the metastatic setting. The most recent treatment must have contained 
trastuzumab, either alone or in combination with other therapy in the metastatic setting, and subjects 
must have progressed while on this regimen. Progression was defined as either new lesions or a ≥20% 
increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) on the progression radiologic scan. 
- Had archived tumour tissue available for testing 
- Had documented amplification of the ErbB2 gene by FISH or documented over-expression of the 
ErbB2 protein by IHC in primary or metastatic tumour tissue. 
- Had an eligible lesion as follows: At least one measurable lesion(s) according to RECIST, or, Bone 
only disease. 
- Had stable central nervous system (CNS) metastases defined as asymptomatic and not receiving 
systemic steroids and anticonvulsants for at least 1 month. Treatment with prophylactic 
anticonvulsants was permitted, unless listed within the prohibited medications. 
- Radiotherapy if received within 2 weeks prior to initiation of study treatment to a limited area (e.g., 
palliative treatment for painful disease) other than the sole site of measurable disease was allowed. 
However, the subject must have completed treatment and recovered from all treatment related 
toxicities prior to administration of the first dose of study treatment. 
- With the single exception of prior trastuzumab treatment, all prior chemotherapy, immunotherapy, 
biologic therapy, or surgery (except for minor surgical procedures) was discontinued at least 3 weeks 
prior to the first dose of study treatment. Subjects were to have recovered or stabilized sufficiently 
from treatment related toxicities prior to administration of the first dose of study treatment. 
- Bisphosphonate therapy for bone metastases was allowed; however, treatment had to be initiated 
prior to the first dose of study treatment. Prophylactic use of bisphosphonates was permitted only for 
the treatment of osteoporosis. 
- Had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 to 2 
- Was able to swallow and retain oral medication 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 16/77 
 
 
 
- Had a cardiac ejection fraction within institutional range of normal as measured by echocardiogram 
(ECHO). Multigated acquisition (MUGA) scans were accepted in cases where an ECHO could not be 
performed or was inconclusive. The same modality used at baseline was to be used for repeat 
assessments throughout study. 
- Had adequate hematologic, hepatic and renal functions as defined in the protocol. 
- Subjects could continue anti-oestrogen therapy only if treatment was initiated at least 1 month prior 
to the first dose of study treatment. After randomization, no anti-hormonal therapy could be initiated. 
Exclusion criteria 
- Was a pregnant or lactating female. 
- Had received prior therapy with an ErbB1 and/or ErbB2 inhibitor other than trastuzumab. 
- Had malabsorption syndrome, disease significantly affecting gastrointestinal function, or resection of 
the stomach or small bowel. Subjects with ulcerative colitis were also to be excluded. 
- Had a history of other malignancy. However, subjects who had been disease free for 5 years, or 
subjects with a history of completely resected non-melanoma skin cancer or successfully treated in situ 
carcinoma were eligible. 
- Had concurrent disease or a condition that made the subject inappropriate for study participation or 
any serious medical disorder that would interfere with the subject's safety. 
- Had unresolved or unstable, serious toxicity from prior administration of another investigational drug 
and/or of prior cancer treatment. 
- Had active or uncontrolled infection. 
- Had dementia, altered mental status, or any psychiatric condition that would prohibit the 
understanding or rendering of informed consent. 
- Had a known history of uncontrolled or symptomatic angina, arrhythmias, or congestive heart failure. 
- Had a known history or clinical evidence of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. 
- Received concurrent cancer therapy (chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunotherapy, biologic 
therapy). 
- Received concurrent treatment with an investigational agent or participation in another clinical trial. 
- Had used an investigational drug within 3 weeks or 5 half-lives, whichever was longer, preceding the 
first dose of study treatment. 
- Had known immediate or delayed hypersensitivity reaction or idiosyncrasy to drugs chemically 
related to trastuzumab or lapatinib or their excipients. 
- Had current active hepatic or biliary disease (with the exception of subjects with Gilbert's syndrome, 
asymptomatic gallstones, liver metastases or stable chronic liver disease per investigator assessment). 
Treatments 
The treatment arms are presented in Figure 1 and further detailed in Table 6. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 17/77 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Design of pivotal study EGF104900 
a: FISH positive and IHC 3; ER = estrogen receptor; FISH = fluorescence in situ hybridization; HER2 = human epidermal 
growth factor receptor 2; IHC = immunohistochemistry; OS = overall survival; PD = progressive disease; PgR = 
progesterone receptor; PFS = progression free survival. 
Table 6. Treatment administered in study EGF104900 
Abbreviation: IV=Intravenous. a: If subjects were already receiving treatment with trastuzumab at the time of study entry 
then a loading dose did not need to be administered. b: Subjects remaining on study therapy at Week 108 and beyond may 
have received trastuzumab either at 2 mg/kg weekly or at 6 mg/kg at 3 week intervals (q3-weekly) according to the 
discretion of the investigator. 
Trastuzumab was given in a weekly regimen, at least up until Week 108 (see also participant flow 
section). 
Objectives 
Primary objective 
• Evaluate and compare the anti-tumour activity, in terms of progression-free survival (PFS), of 
trastuzumab plus lapatinib versus lapatinib monotherapy in subjects with ErbB2 gene amplified (HER2 
over-expressing) MBC. 
Secondary objectives 
• Evaluate and compare the two treatment groups with respect to the following: overall survival (OS), 
tumour response rate (complete or partial), clinical benefit (complete response [CR], partial response 
[PR] or stable disease [SD] for at least 6 months), time to response and duration of response 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 18/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicities associated with oral lapatinib administered daily 
in combination with trastuzumab versus lapatinib monotherapy, compare baseline and on-treatment 
serum concentrations of ErbB1 and ErbB2 ECDs, and potentially perform proteomic analysis to detect 
other shed tumour proteins, identify changes in the protein profile and correlate to treatment response 
• Characterise the subject population by determination of intra-tumoural expression of ErbB1, ErbB2, 
and downstream biomarkers which may help elucidate the effects of lapatinib on the target and other 
proteins along relevant pathways in the tyrosine kinase pathway 
• Evaluate quality of life (QOL) status within the study population and compare the impact on QOL 
between treatment groups 
The pharmacogenomics (PGx) research objectives were to investigate the relationship between genetic 
variants and safety and/or tolerability of study treatments and the relationship between genetic 
variants and efficacy of study treatments if high variability in responses were observed. 
Proteomic analyses were performed on plasma samples taken at specified visits to identify changes in 
the protein profile that were associated with response to study treatments. 
RECIST guidelines were used to assess clinical activity and disease status. The investigator assessed 
responses and the independent reviewer confirmed responses were both reported. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint 
The primary efficacy analysis was based on PFS, defined as the time from randomisation until the first 
documented sign of disease progression or death due to any cause. The date of objective disease 
progression was defined as the date of radiological disease progression as assessed by the 
investigator, based on imaging data. If symptomatic progression was documented without radiological 
progression, the symptomatic date of progression was used. 
Subjects whose disease did not progress or who received additional anticancer therapy (including 
combination therapy following crossover from monotherapy) prior to documented disease progression, 
were censored on the date of their last radiological assessment preceding the start of any additional 
anticancer therapy. 
Secondary endpoints 
Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from randomisation until death due to any cause. 
• 
For subjects who did not die, time to death was censored at the time of last contact.  
Overall Tumour Response Rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of subjects experiencing 
• 
either a confirmed CR or confirmed PR. Subjects with an unknown or missing response were treated as 
non-responders (i.e., they were included in the denominator when calculating the percentage).  
Clinical Benefit Response Rate (CBR) was defined as the percentage of subjects with a 
• 
confirmed CR or PR at any time or SD for at least 24 weeks. Subjects who withdrew from the study 
prior to completing 24 weeks were still counted in this analysis in the denominator. 
Time to Response (TTR) and Duration of Response (DOR): There were not enough subjects 
• 
with a confirmed CR or confirmed PR to analyse these outcome measures using Kaplan-Meier curves as 
specified in the protocol.  
Time to Progression (TTP) was defined as the interval between the date of randomisation and 
• 
the earlier of date of disease progression or death due to breast cancer. TTP was specified in the 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 19/77 
 
 
 
protocol as a secondary endpoint. However, the endpoint is confounded by death due to other causes 
and is similar to PFS and therefore only PFS was examined. 
Quality of Life (QOL) was assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast 
• 
(FACT B) questionnaire (Version 4, 1997).  The FACT B consists of the Functional Assessment of 
Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) questionnaire plus the Breast Cancer Subscale which complements 
the general scale with items specific to QOL in breast cancer.  QOL was measured until subjects had 
disease progression.  Most subjects had a preserved performance status at the start of the study, and 
were asymptomatic. Data were not captured following disease progression, where deterioration in QOL 
is to be expected. 
Sample size 
The sample size calculation was based on the assumption of median PFS of 8 weeks and 12 weeks in 
the monotherapy arm and the combination arm, respectively (i.e., a HR of 0.667). 
A maximum of 192 subjects with disease progression were required. To achieve this number, an 
estimated total of 270 subjects were required.  
Randomisation 
Each subject was randomly assigned to a treatment arm stratified according to site of disease 
(visceral/non-visceral) and hormone receptor status. For all efficacy analyses, significance tests were 
stratified by site of disease (visceral/non-visceral) and hormone receptor status.  
Blinding (masking) 
Not applicable as treatments in this study were administered open-label.  
Statistical methods 
The primary population for efficacy analyses was the Intent-to-Treat (ITT) population, which included 
all subjects randomised to the study irrespective of whether or not study treatment was received and 
was according to the treatment to which they were randomised. PFS was summarised using Kaplan-
Meier curves and compared between treatment arms using a stratified (see Randomisation) log-rank 
test. The Pike estimator of the treatment HR based on the log-rank test was provided, together with a 
95% CI. Of the 296 subjects in the ITT Population, 5 subjects did not have hormone receptor status 
(estrogen receptor and/or progesterone receptor) verified in the case report form (CRF) data. 
Therefore the data for these subjects were excluded in any efficacy analyses adjusted for stratification 
factors. These analyses used the pre-defined stratified analyses described, but were based on the ‘ITT 
Population with Strata’ and were considered to be the primary analyses.  
Supporting PFS analyses were provided based on the independent review assessments. Analyses on 
the Per Protocol (PP) Population and the Crossover Population were also performed.  
The OS analysis was performed for both the ITT and Cross-Over populations. OS was summarised 
using Kaplan-Meier curves and compared between treatment arms using a stratified log-rank test. OS 
was summarised at the time of PFS analyses and when the OS data became mature (75% death 
events).  
Exact 95% confidence intervals [CIs] for the overall tumour response rates in each arm were 
calculated. Non-stratified exact 95% CIs for the difference in overall tumour response rates were also 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 20/77 
 
 
 
calculated. Overall tumour response rates were compared between treatment arms using stratified 
Fisher's exact tests. Zelen’s test for homogeneity of the odds ratios across all strata were performed as 
a measure of validation. 
Results 
Participant flow 
An overview of the participant flow is presented in Figure 1.  
Among 296 randomised patients, 86% of patients completed the study (died, were lost to follow-up or 
received treatment through Week 108) as of the final data cut-off date (29 October 2010). Details for 
premature withdrawals (14%) and primary reason for discontinuation are presented in Table 7 and 
Table 8 respectively.  
Table 7. Subject Accountability (ITT Population) 
a. ‘Completed’ was defined when a subject died, was lost to follow-up, or when another reason existed that prevented 
additional data collection. A subject who met the definition for completion may have been inadvertently captured under a 
withdrawal criterion (lost to follow-up or death). 
b. Follow-up for survival was ceased by Protocol Amendment 3 once the OS data were considered mature. 
Table 8. Primary Reason for Discontinuation from Treatment (Safety populationa) 
a. This table is based on the Safety Population which is based on the treatment the subject actually received. Thus, this 
population differs from the ITT Population due to 1 subject who was randomized to the combination arm but did not receive 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 21/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
any study treatment. In addition, 2 subjects who were randomized to monotherapy treatment inadvertently received 
combination treatment. 
b. 3 subjects in the combination arm and 2 subjects in the monotherapy crossover phase continued study treatment 
beyond 48 weeks. Since the eCRF was designed to record the reason for discontinuing study treatment only within 48 
weeks of treatment, these 5 subjects do not have reasons entered for discontinuing study treatment. c. One subject had an 
AE that resulted in study treatment discontinuation (Table 31 of ACSR ‘Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation of Study 
Treatment Reported for More than One Subject in Either Arm regardless of Relationship to Study Medication’), however, the 
primary reason for study treatment discontinuation was listed by the investigator underlying disease progression. 
d. One of the subjects initially listed by the investigator as discontinuing study treatment due to AEs was later identified as 
a case of disease progression. Therefore, one less subject is listed in the monotherapy arm in Table 31 of ACSR. 
e. Follow-up for survival was ceased by Protocol Amendment 3 once the OS data were considered mature. 
Recruitment 
The EGF140900 study was conducted at 88 centres in 13 countries. The first subject enrolled in this 
study on 17 November 2005 and the last subject completed her final scheduled final visit on 
29 October 2010. The data cut-off date for the primary endpoint, PFS, and secondary endpoints OS, 
ORR, CBR, TTR, DOR was 29 June 2007 (original CSR). All subjects were enrolled prior to that date.  
The cut-off date for the OS analyses was 23 January 2009, which was when sufficient events had 
occurred to provide a mature dataset (end-of-study ACSR). For subject disposition and final cumulative 
safety analyses the cut-off date was 29 October 2010 (ACSR). The final database lock occurred on 
5 May 2011.  
Conduct of the study 
The original protocol was dated 17 August 2005, and was amended three times.  
Baseline data 
Table 9. Demographic Characteristics (ITT Population), Study EGF104900 
Based on data from cut-off date 29 June 2007. 
Abbreviation: NOS=Not otherwise specified. 
a. Time since first diagnosis was unknown for 2 subjects. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 22/77 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. Disease Characteristics at Screening (ITT Population), EGF104900 
Based on data from cut-off date 29 June 2007. 
a. Either estrogen receptor or progesterone receptor status was unknown for these subjects. 
b. Disease progression was documented for these subjects but the time from the last trastuzumab dose to disease 
progression was not available. 
Note: The table presented is based on available eCRF data; however, the efficacy analyses were stratified based on central 
laboratory and lesion data. 
Baseline hormone receptor status, HER2 status by FISH and immunohistochemistry, visceral/non-
visceral disease, and time from last trastuzumab (<1 month/1-3 months/>3 months) were well 
balanced between arms.  
Histological grades at initial diagnosis are presented in the table below. 
Table 11. Histological grade at initial diagnosis 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 23/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12. Metastatic disease sites present at baseline in more than 5% of subjects in either 
treatment arm (ITT Population) 
Based on data from cut-off date 29 June 2007. 
With the exception of pleural engagement, the metastasis sites were overall well balanced between 
arms and reflected the relatively late stage of disease.  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 24/77 
 
 
 
 
Table 13. Prior Anticancer therapies of interest (ITT Population) 
Based on data from cut-off date 29 June 2007. 
Numbers analysed 
The ITT population comprised 148 subjects in each treatment arm. One subject randomised in the 
combination arm did not receive any study treatment. In addition, 2 subjects who were randomised to 
monotherapy treatment inadvertently received combination therapy. This resulted in the safety 
population consisting of 149 subjects in the combination arm and 146 subjects in the monotherapy 
arm (Table 14). 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 25/77 
 
 
 
 
Of the 296 subjects in the ITT Population, 5 subjects did not have hormone receptor status (estrogen 
receptor and/or progesterone receptor) verified in the eCRF data. Therefore the data for these subjects 
were excluded in the primary efficacy analyses that adjusted for stratification (ITT population with 
strata).  
Table 14. Analysis populations, pivotal study EGF104900 
Based on data from cut-off date 29 June 2007. 
a. The HER2 positive population A included subjects with tumours that were FISH ≥2.0 or IHC 3+ per central or local 
laboratory assay evaluation. b. The HER2 positive population B included subjects with tumours that were FISH ≥2.0 or if 
FISH was missing then IHC 3+ per central or local laboratory assay evaluation. The HER positive populations A and B were 
to be analysed only if >5% of the ITT Population did not meet the HER2 positive eligibility criteria. Since greater than 95% 
of subjects in each treatment arm of the ITT population were ErbB2 positive the additional efficacy analyses for these 
populations defined in the analysis plan were not performed. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint - PFS 
Investigator-evaluated PFS was the primary endpoint of the study.   
Table 15. Investigator-Evaluated Progression-Free Survival (Study EGF104900, ITT 
Population with Strata a) 
Number of subjects, n (%) 
Evaluable subjects a 
Progressed or died 
Censored, follow-up ended 
Censored, follow-up ongoing 
Kaplan-Meier estimate (weeks) 
First quartile (95% CI) 
Median (95% CI) 
Third quartile (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio estimate b 
95% CI  
Log-rank p-value c 
Dual Blockade Arm  
(N=148) 
Lapatinib Arm 
(N=148) 
146 (100%) 
127 (87) 
2 (1) 
17 (12) 
145 (100%) 
128 (88) 
4 (3) 
13 (9) 
5.1 (4.3, 6.7) 
12.0 (8.1, 16.0) 
24.4 (17.6, 31.7) 
4.3 (4.1, 4.9) 
8.1 (7.6, 9.0) 
13.4 (11.3, 17.1) 
0.73 
0.57, 0.93 
0.008 
Based on data from cut-off date 29 June 2007 
CI = confidence interval; ITT = intent-to-treat; N = number of subjects in the ITT population with strata 
The number of evaluable subjects is less than the number of subjects in the ITT population because progesterone receptor 
status, which was required for stratification, was missing for 2 subjects in the dual blockade arm and 3 subjects in the 
lapatinib arm. This analysis population is therefore identified as “ITT population with strata”. 
A hazard ratio <1 indicates a lower risk with dual blockade therapy than with lapatinib alone. 
P-value from stratified log-rank test, stratifying for presence of visceral/non-visceral disease and estrogen 
receptor/progesterone receptor status at baseline. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 26/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Investigator-Evaluated Progression-Free Survival 
(Study EGF104900, ITT Population with Strata) 
Based on data from cut-off date 29 June 2007. 
Table 16. Summary of PFS analyses and results 
Analysis population and 
ITT with strata 
ITT with strata 
PP with strata 
PP with strata 
data set 
Investigator 
Independent 
Investigator 
Independent 
assessed PFS 
review PFS 
assessed PFS 
review PFS 
Treatment arm 
Trast + 
Lap 
Trast + 
Lap 
Trast + 
Lap 
Trast + 
Lap 
lap 
mono 
lap 
mono 
lap 
mono 
lap 
mono 
Total n 
146 
145 
146 
145 
143 
139 
143 
139 
Events, n (%) 
127 (87) 
128 
(88) 
83 (57)  79 (54) 
125 
(87) 
123 (88) 
82 (57)  74 (53) 
Median PFS, weeks 
12.0 
8.1 
16.4 
11.1 
12.6 
8.1 
16.4 
11.4 
Difference in medians, 
3.9 
5.3 
4.5 
5.0 
weeks 
HR (CI) 
p-value 
0.73 
0.71 
0.72 
0.71 
(0,57, 0.93) 
(0.52, 0.98) 
(0.56, 0.92) 
(0.52, 0.99) 
0.008 
0.027 
0.006 
0.030 
Data as of 29 June 2007. 
Abbreviations (top-bottom): ITT = intention-to treat, PP = per protocol, PFS = progression-free survival, trast = 
trastuzumab, lap = lapatinib, mono = monotherapy, n = numbers, HR = hazard ratio, CI = confidence interval. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 27/77 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints 
•  Overall survival (OS) 
Table 17. Kaplan Meier Estimate of Overall Survival (ITT Population with Strata) 
Dual blockade arm 
(N=148) 
Monotherapy arm 
(N=148) 
146 
105 (72) 
11 (8) 
30 (21) 
Number of subjects, n (%) 
N 
Died (event) 
Censored, follow-up ended 
Censored, follow-up ongoing 
Kaplan-Meier estimate for OS, months a 
First quartile (95% CI) 
Median (95% CI) 
Third quartile (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio 
Estimate (95% CI) b  
Stratified log-rank p-value c  
Based on data from cut-off date 23 January 2009. 
CI = confidence interval, ITT = intent-to-treat, NA = not applicable 
a.  Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause or to date of 
7.3 (5.8, 8.8) 
14.0 (11.9, 17.2) 
26.0 (19.8, NA) 
4.9 (3.7, 6.5) 
9.5 (7.6, 12.0) 
18.8 (15.6, 24.0) 
145 
113 (78) 
15 (10) 
17 (12) 
0.74 (0.57, 0.97) 
0.026 
censor. 
b.  Pike estimate of the treatment hazard ratio, <1 indicates a lower risk with dual blockade treatment compared with 
monotherapy. 
c.  p-value from stratified log-rank test, stratifying for site of disease and ER/PR status at baseline. 
Figure 3. Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Overall Survival (ITT Population with Strata) 
Based on data from cut-off date 23 January 2009. 
•  Overall tumour response rate (ORR) 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 28/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18. Investigator evaluated and independently evaluated best overall tumour response 
rate (by RECIST) (ITT Population) 
a. The number of evaluable subjects is less than the number of subjects in the ITT population due to 5 subjects having 
missing progesterone receptor data, which was required for stratification. 
b. Subjects with unknown or missing responses were treated as non-responders. 
c. p-value from exact test that common odds ratio equals 1. 
Response after cross-over 
Based on both investigator and independent evaluation, 2.7% of subjects had a confirmed CR or PR 
after crossover to combination treatment. 
ORR by investigator assessment was also analysed by the number of treatment regimens for 
metastatic disease (ad-hoc analysis). The response rate (CR+PR) in subjects with two or less prior 
regimens in the metastatic setting was 20.5% versus 11.8% in the combination and monotherapy 
arms, respectively (odds ratio: 1.9; 95% CI: 0.5, 9.6; p-value: 0.47); and 5.9% versus 5.4%, 
respectively, in subjects with more than two prior regimens in the metastatic setting (odds ratio: 1.0; 
95% CI: 0.3, 4.0; p-value: 1.00). 
•  Clinical benefit response rate (CBR) 
Table 19. Investigator and Independently Evaluated Assessed Clinical Benefit response Rate 
(by RECIST) (ITT Population) 
a. Subjects with unknown or missing responses were treated as non-responders. 
b. p-value from exact test that common odds ratio equals 1. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 29/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CBR (CR+PR+ SD> 6 months) was doubled in the combination arm (24.7%) compared with 
lapatinib monotherapy (12.4%). 
•  Quality of Life (QoL) 
Of those patients who were randomised, approximately 95% in each arm completed a baseline QOL 
questionnaire. Because QOL assessments were stopped at treatment termination or disease 
progression, few subjects were on study and completed the questionnaire after week 24. Hence only 
results up to week 24 are summarised based on the data cut-off of 29 June 2007. 
Figure 4. Adjusted Mean Change from Baseline in FACT-B Total Score (ITT population) 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 30/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Important metastatic sites 
Figure 5. Summary of hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals for investigator assessed 
Progression Free Survival subgroup analyses 
Hazard Ratios Based on Pike Estimator. Stratified Hazard Ratio used for Bone Disease Subgroup. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 31/77 
 
 
 
 
 
Major prognostic subgroups 
Figure 6. Forest plot of hazard ratio (95% CI) and medians for investigator-assessed 
Progression Free Survival 
CI = confidence interval; ECOG = Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group; ER = oestrogen receptor; PgR = progesterone 
receptor; Met = metastatic, ITT = intent to treat; Trast = trastuzumab 
Figure 7. Forest plot of hazard ratio (95% CI) for Overall Survival 
Median (months)
Data as of 23 January 2009 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 32/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A stepwise Cox proportional hazard analysis was performed to identify independent factors influencing 
OS. Significant factors in the final model that positively influenced OS were ECOG performance status 
of 0, lack of visceral disease, <3 metastatic sites, and less time from initial diagnosis until 
randomisation. The adjusted HR for treatment of 0.71 (95% CI: 0.54, 0.93; p=0.0116) retained 
significance and represented a 29% reduction in the risk of death for subjects in the dual blockade arm 
compared with subjects in the lapatinib arm. 
Post-study chemotherapies 
Data on post-study therapies received following EGF104900 are summarised in the table below.  
Table 20. Number of post-study chemotherapies (Intent-to-Treat population) 
While more subjects in the dual blockade arm received post-study chemotherapies, the numbers of 
post-study chemotherapies were well balanced between the arms with a median of two. 
Table 21. EGF104900: Subjects receiving post-progression therapy with trastuzumab and 
lapatinib  
Dual Blockade 
Arm (N=148) 
Number (%) of subjects 
Lapatinib Arm 
(N=148) 
All Subjects 
(N=296) 
Original Analysis Excluding Cross Over Therapya  n (%) 
Number of Subjects who received Cross-over 
NA 
Therapy Prior to Entering Follow Up 
Any Therapy 
Any HER2-Targeted Agent  
Trastuzumab 
Lapatinib 
New Analysis Including Cross Over Therapyb n (%) 
Any Therapy 
Any HER2-Targeted Agent  
Trastuzumab 
Lapatinib 
a. Data as of 23 Jan2009 
b. Data as of 23 Jan 2009 
N/A Not applicable 
101 (68) 
71 (70) 
48 (48) 
20 (20) 
101 (68) 
71 (70) 
48 (48) 
20 (20) 
77 (52) 
76 (51) 
54 (71) 
47 (62) 
17 (22) 
110 (74) 
100 (91) 
99 (90) 
77 (70) 
77 (26) 
177 (60) 
125 (71) 
95 (54) 
37 (21) 
211 (71) 
171 (81) 
147 (70) 
97 (46) 
As requested by the CHMP, the next-line therapies were further assessed. In EGF104900, the type, 
name and start date of post study treatment agents were captured and are summarised in the table 
below, to determine whether the type and line of therapy administered after completion of study 
medication could have influenced the study outcomes (Table 22). The duration of post-study therapies 
is also presented in Table 23. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 33/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22. EGF104900: First next line therapy (ITT Population) 
Anti-Cancer Therapy 
Dual 
Blockade Arm 
N=148 
Lapatinib Arm 
N=148 
Number of subjects in follow-up, n 
(%)  
Any Therapy a 
Targeted agents 
Trastuzumab  
Lapatinib  
Bevacizumab  
Sunitinib Malate 
Any chemotherapy 
Anti-metabolites  
Taxanes  
Alkylating agents  
Vinca alkaloids  
Anthracyclines  
Plant Alkaloid/Topo II Inhibitors 
Topoisomerase I inhibitors 
Pemetrexedb 
122 (82) 
100 (68) 
101 (68) 
53 (52) 
37 (37) 
5 (5) 
12 (12) 
0 
77 (52) 
39 (39) 
17 (17) 
11 (11) 
12 (12) 
7 (7) 
2 (2) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<) 
4 (4) 
1 (<1) 
10 (10) 
76 (51) 
41 (54) 
35 (46) 
6 (8) 
3 (4) 
1 (1) 
59 (40) 
28 (37) 
17 (22) 
13 (17) 
5 (7) 
5 (7) 
1 (1) 
0 
0 
4 (5) 
0 
3 (4) 
Lapatinib Arm 
Non-
crossover 
N=71 
41 (58) 
Crossover 
N=77 
59 (77) 
33 (46) 
17 (52) 
15 (45) 
1 (3) 
3 (9) 
0 
26 (37) 
11 (33) 
9 (27) 
7 (21) 
0 
2 (6) 
1 (3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (6) 
43 (56) 
24 (56) 
20 (47) 
5 (12) 
0 
1 (2) 
33 (43) 
17 (40) 
8 (19) 
6 (14) 
5 (12) 
3 (7) 
0 
0 
0 
4 (9) 
0 
1 (2) 
Hormonal  
Bisphosphonates 
Otherc 
a.  Does not include cross-over therapy 
b.  Pemetrexed was included in the “Other” category and not presented in EGF104900 ACSR Table 21; as such it was 
presented separately here 
c.  Other denotes all anti-cancer therapies not previously described in the EGF104900 ACSR Table 21 and includes calcium 
carbonate, neratinib, dasatinib, erlotinib, LBH-589, MK-0646, MKC-1, sirolimus, sorafenib, an investigational drug (NOS) 
and an ambiguous medication. All other medications were given to one or fewer subjects in each cohort, except for 
neratinib, which was given to 2 subjects in the dual blockade cohort. 
Table 23. EGF104900: Duration of post study anti-cancer therapies 
A post-hoc analysis investigating the effect of post-study therapies on OS results was performed. Post-
study therapies comprised treatments administered from the time of discontinuation of all study 
therapy. Post-study therapies did not include dual blockade treatment received by the 77 subjects 
(52%) in the monotherapy arm who crossed over upon disease progression.  Subsequent therapies for 
these subjects were captured following discontinuation of combination therapy. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 34/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 24. Kaplan Meier estimate of Overall Survival in subjects who received and did not 
receive post-study therapies (ITT population with strata) 
Subjects with Any Post-Study 
Treatment 
Subjects with No Recorded Post-
Study Treatment 
Dual blockade 
arm  
Lapatinib 
arm 
Dual blockade 
arm  
Lapatinib 
arm 
76 
60 (79) 
4 (5) 
12 (16) 
101 
71 (70) 
4 (4) 
26 (26) 
Number of subjects, n (%) 
n 
Died (event) 
Censored, follow-up ended 
Censored, follow-up ongoing 
Kaplan-Meier estimate for OS, months  
First quartile  
  (95% CI) 
Median  
  (95% CI) 
Third quartile  
  (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio 
Estimate (95% CI) 
CI = confidence interval; ITT – intent-to-treat; N = number of subjects; NA = not applicable; OS = overall survival 
9.3 
(8.3, 11.3) 
15.5  
(13.4, 18.1) 
24.0 
(18.8, 26.4) 
11.6 
(9.5, 13.9) 
17.7  
(15.4, 20.9) 
27.3 
(23.3, NA) 
1.9 
(1.7, 4.6) 
6.1  
(4.3, 7.9) 
9.4  
(7.3, NA) 
45 
34 (76) 
7 (16) 
4 (9) 
0.83 (0.59, 1.18) 
0.72 (0.47, 1.10) 
2.3  
(2.0, 3.6) 
4.7 
(3.7, 6.4) 
7.5  
(6.4, 12.0) 
69 
53 (77) 
11 (16) 
5 (7) 
Types of PFS Events 
Results of analyses of the types of PFS events in study EGF104900 are presented below. 
Table 25. EGF104900: Summary of investigator-assessed progression events (ITT 
Population) 
Investigator Evaluation 
Total number of PFS events 
    Radiological Progression, n (%)a  
    Symptomatic Progression, n (%)a  
    Death, n (%)a  
PFS = progression-free survival 
a Expressed as percentage of total number of PFS events 
Dual Blockade Arm 
(N=148) 
127 
106 (83) 
15 (12) 
6 (5) 
Lapatinib Arm 
(N=148) 
128 
112 (88) 
12 (9) 
4 (3) 
The reasons and sites for disease progression in EGF104900 are summarised in Table 27 and 28.  
Table 26. EGF104900: Summary of reasons for progressive disease (ITT population) 
Table 27. EGF104900: Summary of sites of disease progression (ITT population) 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 35/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tumour Histological Grade 
An exploratory analysis was also performed to determine whether histological grade at initial diagnosis 
had any implication on progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). 
Table 28. EGF104900: Investigator-Assessed PFS and OS by Histological Grade at Initial 
Diagnosis (ITT Population) 
Poorly Differentiated or 
Undifferentiated 
Moderately Differentiated or 
Well Differentiated 
Dual Blockade 
Arm 
(N=67) 
Lapatinib 
Arm 
(N=85) 
Dual Blockade 
Arm 
(N=42) 
Lapatinib 
Arm 
(N=35) 
56 (84) 
Investigator Assessed PFS a 
Progressed or Died, n 
(%)  
Median, weeks 
Hazard ratio (95%CI)  
Overall Survival b 
Died, n (%)  
Median, months  
Hazard ratio (95%CI)  
1.  CI, confidence interval; PFS, progression-free survival 
2.  a. Based on clinical cut off 29 June 2007 
3.  b. Based on clinical cut off 23 January 2009 
51 (76) 
12.5 
13.0 
77 (91) 
39 (93) 
28 (80) 
7.5 
12.1 
9.9 
0.58 (0.41, 0.82) 
0.83 (0.51, 1.36) 
69 (81) 
8.8 
31 (74) 
14.6 
24 (69) 
14.0 
0.70 (0.49, 1.01) 
1.04 (0.61, 1.78) 
In order to understand whether a difference in benefit in histological subgroups is observed in other 
studies, histological subgroups were also evaluated for pCR in the neoadjuvant supportive study 
EGF106903 (NeoALTTO) (see also section ‘Supportive studies’).  
Table 29. EGF106903: pCR in histological grade subgroups (ITT population) 
Biomarker results 
Serum HER2 extracellular domain (ECD) concentration 
Baseline serum HER2 ECD concentration levels (collected prior to any study treatment) were available 
for 94% of subjects (279/296). Subjects were grouped according to whether HER2 ECD levels were 
elevated (>15 ng/mL) or at or below the reference normal value of 15 ng/mL [Carney, 2003] and 
evaluated for treatment outcome effects on PFS, ORR and CBR. At screening, the majority of subjects 
in the ITT population had HER2 ECD levels >15 ng/mL (60%).  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 36/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 30. PFS Analysis by Baseline HER2 ECD levels (ITT Population) 
Based on data from cut-off date 29 June 2007. 
Abbreviation: CI =Confidence interval; ECD=extracellular domain; PFS=progression free survival 
At Week 4, there was a mean increase in HER2 ECD of 12% (standard deviation: 63%; range: -91% to 
417%) in the combination arm, whereas a mean increase in HER2 ECD of 88% (standard deviation: 
161%; range: -73% to 913%) was observed in the monotherapy arm. 
Gene Expression Analysis 
Archival formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumour tissue (collected prior to any study 
treatment) of sufficient quantity required for conducting the gene expression analysis was available for 
156 subjects. Gene expression results were available for 68 subjects in the monotherapy arm and 65 
subjects in the combination arm. Reasons for missing data were insufficient quantity of tumour tissue, 
poor quantity RNA or poor quality RNA. In analyses to identify differentially expressed genes between 
the treatment arms, no genes met the false discovery rate (FDR) significance threshold of ≤0.05, 
therefore the treatment arms were combined for further analyses. The results showed that high HER2 
expression levels and low MMP7 expression levels were significantly associated with longer PFS in the 
combined population; there were no genes significantly associated with OS (FDR adjusted p-value 
>0.05).  
Hormone Receptor Status 
 Table 31. EGF104900: Summary of PFS and OS – subgroup analysis by HR status 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 37/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. EGF104900: Overall survival data - subgroup analysis by HR status  
Plot A HR Positive, Plot B HR Negative 
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
e
v
i
l
A
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
e
v
i
t
a
l
u
m
u
C
Lap+Tras 
Lap 
Lap1000+Tras
Lap1500
Lap1000+Tras
Lap1500
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
e
v
i
l
A
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
e
v
i
t
a
l
u
m
u
C
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Time from Randomization (Months)
Time from Randomization (Months)
Lap+Tras 
Lap 
Table 32. EGF104900: Summary of ORR - subgroup analysis by HR status  
HR subgroup analyses were also performed for pCR on the NeoALTTO study (Table 34) (see also 
section ‘Supportive studies’).   
Table 33. EGF106903: pCR in hormone receptor subgroups (ITT population) 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 38/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 34. Summary of PFS and OS in studies with HR status data available 
Median PFS 
Study 
(95% CI) 
Median OS 
(95% CI) 
HR-negative 
HR-positive 
HR-negative 
HR-positive 
15.4 wks 
(8.4-16.9) 
8.2 wks 
(7.4, 9.3) 
0.73 
(0.52-1.03) 
7.9 wks 
(6.3-15.7) 
8.1 wks 
(6.1-9.9) 
0.73 
(0.51-1.04) 
31.3 wks 
26.7 wks 
17.6 wks 
0.48 
(0.32-0.72) 
18.6 wks 
0.61 
(0.39-0.95) 
17.2 mos 
(13.9-19.2) 
8.9 mos 
(6.7-11.8) 
0.62 
(0.42-0.90) 
76.4 wks 
(66.0-87.3) 
62.6 wks 
(44.0-75.0) 
0.85 
(0.63-1.15) 
12.0 mos 
(9.4-15.4) 
11.2 mos 
(8.0-15.4) 
0.84 
(0.58-1.23) 
74.0 wks 
(58.3-95.6) 
62.1 wks 
(50.6-NR) 
0.86 
(0.63-1.17) 
EGF104900 
Lapatinib + 
Trastuzumab 
Lapatinib 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI) 
EGF100151 
Lapatinib + 
Capecitabine 
Capecitabine 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI) 
EGF104535 
Lapatinib + Paclitaxel 
Paclitaxel 
9.4 mos 
(7.6-11.8) 
5.4 mos 
(3.7-6.5) 
0.51 
(0.38-0.68) 
10.7 mos 
(9.2-11.4) 
7.3 mos 
(6.3-7.7) 
0.53 
(0.40-0.71) 
28.1 mos 
(22.0-33.6) 
17.4 mos 
(14.8-21.9) 
0.66 
(0.47-0.93) 
26.2 mos 
(21.4-35.7) 
22.9 mos 
(18.9-29.0) 
0.85 
(0.60-1.20) 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; HR=hormone receptor; OS=overall survival; PFS=progression free survival;  
Hormone receptor status and histology 
There was a total of 88 patients with HR negative status and poor differentiation. In this subgroup the 
HRs dual blockade versus lapatinib monotherapy were 0.62 (95% CI 0.39; 0.97) for PFS and 0.59 
(95% CI 0.37; 0.96) for OS. The ORR rates were 4 and 10% respectively, mono versus dual therapy.  
Hormone receptor status and HER2 expression level 
Table 35. EGF104900: HER2 IHC scores relative to tumour hormone receptor status  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 39/77 
 
 
 
 
 
  Table 36. EGF104900: HER2 IHC scores relative to tumour differentiation status  
Summary of main efficacy results 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 37.  Summary of Efficacy for trial EGF104900 
Title: A randomised, multicenter, open-Label, phase III study of lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab versus 
lapatinib monotherapy in subjects with metastatic breast cancer whose disease has progressed on a trastuzumab-
containing regimen 
Study identifier 
EGF104900  
Design 
randomised, multicenter, open-label, controlled 
Duration of main phase: 
<time> 
Duration of run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of extension phase: 
not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatment groups 
Lapatinib in combination with 
Lapatinib: 1000 mg (4 tablets) daily 
trastuzumab (dual blockade arm) 
Trastuzumab: loading dose on Day 1 of 4 mg/kg IV 
(L+T) 
infusion approximately 90 minutes, followed by 2 
mg/kg IV infusion approximately 30 minutes weekly. 
N= 148 
Lapatinib monotherapy (L) 
1500 mg (6 tablets) daily 
N=148 
Cross over period (patients cross 
Before cross-over: 1500 mg (6 tablets) daily 
over from lapatinib monotherapy 
After cross-over: lapatinib: 1000 mg (4 tablets) 
arm to dual blockade arm) 
daily; trastuzumab: loading dose on Day 1 of 
4 mg/kg IV infusion approximately 90 minutes, 
followed by 2 mg/kg IV infusion approximately 30 
minutes weekly. 
N=77 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 40/77 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
PFS 
Progression Free Survival: time from randomisation 
until the first documented sign of disease 
progression or death due to any cause 
Secondary 
OS 
Overall Survival: time from randomisation until 
endpoint 
death due to any cause. For subjects who did not 
die, time to death was censored at the time of last 
contact 
Secondary 
ORR 
Overall Tumour Response Rate: percentage of 
endpoint 
subjects experiencing either a confirmed CR or 
confirmed PR. Subjects with an unknown or missing 
response were treated as non-responders. 
Secondary 
CBR 
Clinical Benefit Response Rate: percentage of 
endpoint 
subjects with a confirmed CR or PR at any time or 
SD for at least 24 weeks 
Database lock 
PFS, ORR, CBR: cut-off date 29 June 2007 
OS: cut-off date 23 January 2009 
Results and analysis 
Analysis description 
Primary analysis 
Analysis population and 
Intent to treat 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
Treatment group 
Dual blockade arm 
Lapatinib 
Cross over perioda 
estimate variability 
(L+T) 
monotherapy (L) 
Number of subjects 
148 
PFSb, weeks 
(median)  
12.0 
148 
8.1 
77 
6.9 
(95% CI) 
(8.1, 16.0) 
(7.6, 9.0) 
(4.1, 8.1) 
OSc, months 
14.0 
9.5 
10.8 
(median) 
(95% CI) 
ORRb, %  
(95% CI) 
CBRe, %  
(11.9, 17.2) 
(7.6, 12.0) 
(8.7, 15.6) 
10.3 
6.9 
2.7 
(5.9, 16.4) 
(3.4, 12.3) 
(0.3, 9.5) 
24.7 
12.4 
8.2 
(95% CI) 
(17.9, 32.5) 
(7.5, 18.9) 
(3.1, 17.0) 
Effect estimate per 
PFSb (median) 
Comparison groups 
L+T versus L 
comparison 
Hazard ratio  
(95% CI) 
0.73 
(0.57, 0.93) 
Log rank p-value 
0.008 
OSc (median) 
Comparison groups 
L+T versus L 
ORRb 
Hazard ratio  
(95% CI) 
Log rank p-value 
Odds ratio  
(95% CI) 
0.74 
(0.57, 0.97) 
0.026 
1.5 
(0.6, 3.9) 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 41/77 
 
 
 
Notes 
CBRe 
Comparison groups 
L+T versus L 
p-value 
0.465 
Odds ratio p-value 
2.2 
(95% CI) 
P-value 
(1.2, 4.5) 
0.01 
a. For crossover patients, PFS, overall tumour response, and clinical benefit response is 
based on the interval between crossover and next progression while OS is based on the time 
interval from randomization to death. 
b. Data from cut-off date 29 June 2007. 
c. Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of randomization until death due to 
any cause or to date of censor. Data from cut-off date 23 January 2009. 
e. Investigator assessed: the percentage of subjects with confirmed complete response or 
partial response at any time or stable disease for at least 24 weeks. Data from cut-off date 
29 June 2007. 
Table 38. Summary of PFS and OS in Studies with Hormone Receptor negative for Study 
EGF104900 
Lapatinib + Trastuzumab 
15.4 weeks (8.4, 16.9) 
17.2 months (13.9, 19.2) 
Median PFS (95% CI) 
Median OS (95% CI) 
Lapatinib 
8.2 weeks (7.4, 9.3) 
8.9 months (6.7, 11.8) 
HR (95% CI) 
0.73 (0.52, 1.03) 
0.62 (0.42, 0.90) 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No analysis across trials was submitted.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies in special population were submitted. 
Supportive studies 
Study LPT109096  
Study LPT109096 was a phase II randomised, multicenter, open-label, trial of neoadjuvant 
trastuzumab and/or lapatinib plus chemotherapy (sequential FEC75 and paclitaxel) in women with 
ErbB2 (HER2) overexpressing invasive breast cancer. 
Eligible subjects were women with invasive (T2-4, N0-2, M0 or Tx, N2 whose lymph nodes would be 
accessible for biopsy) human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2) overexpressing breast cancer. 
The study started on 13 August 2007 and was completed on 15 October 2010. 
A total of 100 subjects were randomly assigned 1:1:1 to the following treatment arms: 
• Arm 1 (control): 2 weeks of trastuzumab alone (T) followed by 12 weeks of trastuzumab plus FEC75 
followed by 12 weeks of trastuzumab plus paclitaxel 
• Arm 2 (comparator): 2 weeks of lapatinib alone (L) followed by 12 weeks of lapatinib plus FEC75 
followed by 12 weeks of lapatinib plus paclitaxel 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 42/77 
 
 
 
 
 
• Arm 3 (comparator): 2 weeks of trastuzumab and lapatinib (T+L) followed by 12 weeks of 
trastuzumab and lapatinib plus FEC75 followed by 12 weeks of trastuzumab and lapatinib plus 
paclitaxel. 
Criteria for efficacy assessments were pathological complete response (pCR), clinical complete 
response (cCR), overall response rate (ORR), and disease free survival (DFS). 
Efficacy results 
The ITT-E population (“evaluable”: subjects who completed at least 75% chemotherapy and protocol-
specified surgery, (N=26 (T), 29 (L), 23 (T+L)) was used for the primary efficacy analyses, and the 
ITT population was used for the secondary efficacy analyses. The primary efficacy endpoint was overall 
pCR (breast and lymph nodes) at the time of surgery. It is to be noted that the study was not powered 
for inference testing. Secondary endpoints are shown below. 
Results are summarised in Table 40. 
Table 39. Summary of efficacy outcomes in study LPT109096  
Study LPT109096 
n 
pCR, breast + nodes 
(ITT-E, primary) % (CI) 
pCR, breast + nodes 
(ITT) % (CI) 
pCR, breast only 
(ITT-E ) % (CI) 
pCR, breast only 
(ITT), % (CI) 
ORR, % (ITT) 
ORR, % (E-ITT) 
cCR, % (ITT) 
cCR, % (E-ITT) 
T 
33 
54 
(33.4, 73.4) 
55 
(36.4, 71.9) 
54 
55 
61 
62 
42 
46 
L 
34 
45 
(26.4, 64.3) 
38 
(22.2, 56.4) 
52 
47 
68 
76 
38 
45 
T+L 
33 
74  
(51.6, 89.8) 
55 
(36.4, 71.9) 
74 
55 
61 
70 
36 
43 
Study EGF106903 (NeoALTTO) 
Study EGF106903 was a parallel group, three-arm, randomised, multi-centre, open-label phase III 
study comparing the efficacy of neoadjuvant lapatinib plus paclitaxel, versus trastuzumab plus 
paclitaxel, versus concomitant lapatinib and trastuzumab plus paclitaxel given as neoadjuvant 
treatment in HER2/ErbB2 over-expressing and/or amplified primary breast cancer.  
The study started on 5 January 2008 (First Subject First Visit) and was completed on 27 May 2010 
(Last Subject Last Visit). 
A total of 455 subjects were randomised, in accordance with the randomisation schedule, to one of the 
following neoadjuvant study treatments: 
• Treatment Arm A — oral lapatinib (1500 mg daily) for 6 weeks, followed by lapatinib plus weekly 
paclitaxel (80 mg/m2 iv) for an additional 12 weeks;  
• Treatment Arm B — trastuzumab (4 mg/kg iv load followed by 2 mg/kg iv weekly) for 6 weeks, 
followed by trastuzumab plus weekly paclitaxel (80 mg/m2 iv) for an additional 12 weeks; 
• Treatment Arm C — oral lapatinib (1000 mg daily) plus trastuzumab (4 mg/kg iv load followed by 
2 mg/kg iv weekly) for 6 weeks, followed by lapatinib (750 mg daily) plus trastuzumab (2 mg/kg iv 
weekly) plus weekly paclitaxel (80 mg/m2 iv) for an additional 12 weeks. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 43/77 
 
 
 
 
Subjects were randomised to receive lapatinib, trastuzumab or lapatinib plus trastuzumab for a total of 
6 weeks. After this biological window, subjects continued on the same targeted therapy plus weekly 
paclitaxel for a further 12 weeks, until definitive surgery (total neoadjuvant therapy duration of 
18 weeks). Paclitaxel may have been initiated at week 4 if there is evidence of progressive disease 
(PD) at that time. Within 6 weeks after surgery, subjects received 3 cycles of adjuvant 5-flourouracil, 
epirubicin and cyclophosphamide (FEC) followed by the same targeted therapy as in the biological 
window of the neoadjuvant phase for a further 34 weeks (to complete 52 weeks of anti-HER2 therapy). 
Criteria for evaluation  
The primary endpoint was pathological complete response (pCR), defined according to NSABP 
guidelines as no invasive cancer in the breast or only non-invasive in situ cancer in the breast 
specimen.  
Loco-regional pCR was a secondary endpoint, defined as having both an NSABP definition of pCR and a 
regional lymph node status at surgery of pN0. Some of the other secondary endpoints are shown in 
Table 40. 
ORR was assessed using the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria. According to the protocol, bi-
dimensional tumour measurements were obtained through clinical examination (breast palpation) at 
screening, at Weeks 2, 4, 6, 10, 13, and 16 and immediately prior to surgery; and by mammography 
and breast echography at screening, at Week 6 and immediately prior to surgery.  
Table 40. Summary of efficacy outcomes in study EGF106903 
Study EGF106903 
n 
pCR, % (CI) 
Odds (SE) ratio vs. T 
p-value vs.T 
Locoregional pCR 
Odds (SE) ratio vs. T 
p-value vs.T 
Node neg at surgery (%) 
ORR at surgery (%) 
Odds (SE) ratio vs. T 
p-value vs.T 
cCR at surgery (%) 
p-value vs.T 
T 
149 
29.5 
- 
- 
27.6 
0.142 
58.6 
70.47 
- 
- 
24.16 
2.3.6.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of study EGF104900 
L 
154 
24.7 
0.78 (0.21) 
0.355 
20.0 
0.66 (0.19) 
51.8 
74.03 
T+L 
152 
51.3 
2.63 (0.65) 
<0.001 
46.9 
2.40 (0.61) 
<0.001 
73.0 
80.26 
1.21 (0.32) 
1.74 (0.48) 
0.459 
33.12 
0.0850 
0.045 
52.63 
<0.0001 
The pivotal study was performed in a HER2-positive late stage metastatic study population with poor 
prognosis and limited treatment options, having already progressed on combination therapy with 
trastuzumab in the metastatic setting. The lapatinib dose for the combination with trastuzumab 
standard dose was selected based on a pre-specified level of dose-limiting toxicities in the phase I 
study EGF10023 which is considered justified. The inclusion and exclusion criteria, randomisation 
procedure and objectives of study EGF104900 are acceptable. Standard statistical methods were used 
for the conduct of the study and the main efficacy endpoints (PFS, OS, RR and CBR) are considered 
appropriate by the CHMP. PFS by investigator assessment as primary endpoint is satisfactory since 
independent review was also performed allowing for sensitivity analyses of the robustness of the 
results. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 44/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy analysis was defined in the protocol as the stratified log rank analysis. The study 
population for the primary analyses was the ITT population. Since full stratification data were missing 
for 5 patients, their data were automatically excluded in the primary analysis in the ITT population. In 
this application (however not in the original CSR) the MAH chose to also exclude these patients in the 
Kaplan-Meier analyses and introduced this as a new population, the “ITT population with strata”. 
Through this measure the same number of patients is contributing to the main analyses. 
Standard therapy in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer involves HER2-blockade in combination 
with chemotherapy or hormonal therapy. However, the control arm in this study was an anti-HER2 
monotherapy without established efficacy and with a modest activity. Therefore, it raised questions as 
to the interpretation of the magnitude of the dual blockade treatment benefit. At the time study 
EGF104900 was designed data were available supporting the use of lapatinib monotherapy in HER2-
positive metastatic breast cancer from the study EGF20009. This study showed that lapatinib 
monotherapy had activity in HER2 metastatic breast cancer, with an investigator-evaluated ORR of 
24.6% (95% CI: 15.1, 36.5). Subjects were eligible only after progression on trastuzumab containing 
regimens. 
The decision to not include chemotherapy alone as a third arm was based on its assumed limited 
benefit in this population of late line and late stage disease. By adding a third arm with lapatinib in 
combination with chemotherapy valuable information would have been generated putting the efficacy 
of dual anti-HER2 treatment into perspective of other available treatment modalities.  
The study results however should be interpreted in the light of current clinical practice (see below).  
Efficacy results from study EGF104900 
The added treatment effect of the combination treatment with trastuzumab and lapatinib compared 
with lapatinib as single agent was relatively small with regard to PFS. The difference in median PFS 
was 3.9 weeks in the primary analysis, and the HR was 0.73 (95% CI: 0.57, 0.93). The magnitude of 
the treatment effect was consistent in the supportive analyses by independent review and in the PP 
population. 
The added treatment effect of the combination treatment with trastuzumab and lapatinib compared 
with lapatinib as single agent was considerably higher for OS (4.5 months) compared with PFS 
(3.9 weeks). PFS and OS results were robust with regard to sensitivity analyses. Clinical activity was 
shown for both treatment arms in terms of ORR with 6.9% versus 10.3% in the lapatinib monotherapy 
and combination arms respectively. A relevant difference in response rate between arms was only 
apparent in patients with two or less prior regimens in the metastatic setting, although statistically 
significance was not achieved in subgroups. Regarding QOL, comparison of QOL summary scores in 
terms of changes from baseline revealed no clinically significant differences between the treatment 
arms. 
Further analyses were conducted in order to explain the unusual pattern observed between PFS and 
OS results, and particularly provide reassurance that the OS effect was attributable to the study 
treatment.  
The types of PFS events were mainly balanced between the two arms. As expected, the majority of 
PFS events were due to disease progression and no relevant difference in PFS events between the two 
arms were observed, i.e. progression versus deaths. Neither was there any major difference in sites of 
disease progression observed or reasons for progressive disease. Losses to follow-up were small and 
balanced between the two groups and unlikely to have had an impact on PFS.   
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 45/77 
 
 
 
A moderate imbalance in post-study therapy was observed in the ITT population as more subjects in 
the dual blockade arm received treatment post-study (chemotherapy and hormone therapy) and also 
stayed slightly longer on therapy. On the other hand, as expected, more subjects in the lapatinib arm 
received anti-HER2 agents (due to the cross over design). Based on these results, the CHMP concluded 
that next-line therapy was of no relevant importance for the overall survival comparison.  
Lapatinib had previously shown activity in subjects who progressed on trastuzumab as monotherapy 
(Blackwell, 2009), and in combination with capecitabine (Geyer, 2007).  Furthermore, in the pivotal 
study investigator-evaluated best overall tumor response rate (ORR) was 6.9% in the lapatinib 
monotherapy arm. A clinical benefit rate (CBR) of 12.4% (CR or PR or stable disease ≥24 weeks) and a 
median overall survival of 9.5 months in this heavily pre-treated population was observed. 
Additionally, the number of fatal adverse events (which do not comprise death due to disease 
progression) between the arms was low and balanced (3 deaths in the dual blockade arm versus 2 
deaths in the lapatinib arm). Therefore, there was no evidence of a deleterious effect of lapatinib. 
There is external evidence showing that the discrepancy between OS and PFS is no unique observation. 
Similar discrepancies between PFS and OS have been reported in another study evaluating a different 
dual blockade combination (pertuzumab + trastuzumab) (Swain 2013).    
Subgroup analyses 
Undifferentiated or poorly differentiated histological grades (indicative of a poor prognosis) were 
reported in 57% of subjects in the lapatinib arm and in 45% of subjects in the dual blockade arm. A 
subgroup analysis was conducted in order to evaluate potential implications on the efficacy endpoints. 
A benefit for the dual blockade was observed in subjects with poorly/undifferentiated tumours in terms 
of PFS and OS, while for ORR there appeared to be a benefit in subjects with well/ moderately 
differentiated tumours. Data from lapatinib studies that did not include dual blockade do not suggest 
any association between the efficacy of lapatinib and tumour histological differentiation. 
Data from exploratory analyses in the pivotal study were suggestive of an increased overall benefit for 
subjects with serum HER2 ECD concentrations >15 ng/mL. The mean percentage change of HER2 ECD 
from baseline to week 4 was highly variable. In addition, the mean changes in serum HER2 ECD from 
baseline and at subsequent treatment visits after week 4 were not evaluated. Based on the available 
data, a clear association between serum concentrations of HER2 ECD >15 ng/ml and an improved 
clinical outcome in HER2 positive MBC has not been established and serum HER2 ECD concentration 
has not been confirmed as predictive of activity of dual blockade. In relation to the gene expression 
analysis, because of the limitations in sample size, establishing the utility of measuring HER2 and 
MMP7 at the transcriptional level would require additional analyses in larger populations. 
The efficacy of the dual blockade in terms of OS and ORR was increased in subjects with hormone 
receptor-negative tumours compared to those with hormone receptor-positive tumours, although the 
hazard ratios for PFS were similar (0.73). This is further supported by results from study EGF106903 
(NeoALLTO) although this study was conducted in a different setting with a different endpoint (pCR). In 
general, data from studies with lapatinib as a sole HER2 blocking agent (in combination with 
chemotherapy) showed an increase in benefit in subjects with hormone receptor-negative tumours. 
Similar observations were made in another dual blockade combination, trastuzumab in combination 
with pertuzumab. Although the comparison might be limited due to the different mechanism of action 
between lapatinib and pertuzumab, in both the Cleopatra study, a phase III study in first line MBC 
(Baselga, 2012) and the neo-adjuvant Neo-Sphere study (Gianni, 2012), the combination of 
pertuzumab and trastuzumab showed an increase in magnitude of benefit in subjects with hormone 
receptor-negative tumours as compared to those with hormone receptor-positive tumours.  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 46/77 
 
 
 
A benefit for dual blockade was observed in subjects with poorly differentiated/ undifferentiated 
tumours compared to well/moderately differentiated tumours in terms of medians for PFS and OS 
which was reflected in hazard ratios of 0.50 versus 0.80 for PFS and 0.70 versus 1.04 for OS 
respectively. For ORR, however, there appeared to be a benefit for dual blockade in subjects with 
well/moderately differentiated tumours. Data in support of the observed benefit in poor/ 
undifferentiated tumours are limited to one neo-adjuvant study, EGF106903 (pCR). There are no other 
external data to corroborate or refute this observation. Hence, a clear association between the efficacy 
of dual blockade and tumour histological differentiation has not been confirmed. It is acknowledged, 
however, that there is a substantial overlap between hormone receptor negative and poorly 
differentiated tumours. Similarly available data indicate higher expression levels of HER2 in these 
groups of tumours. 
The CHMP considered the mechanistic grounds for the post study treatment effect and the relationship 
between grade of tumour differentiation, HR status and ECD and activity should be further 
investigated. A mechanistic understanding to the outstanding issue of whether dual blockade could 
modulate the effect of subsequent therapy, in particular to partially reverse resistance to 
chemotherapy should be further explored. Therefore a study to evaluate biomarkers of drug resistance 
will be conducted by the MAH as a post-authorisation measure obligation (see Annex II). 
Supportive studies 
The two supporting studies were performed in the neoadjuvant setting comparing lapatinib, 
trastuzumab, and lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab, with pathological complete response 
(pCR) at definitive surgery as the primary endpoint. The pCR results showed a superior outcome for 
the combination treatment. The lapatinib arm had numerically (but not statistically significantly) 
inferior pCR results compared to the trastuzumab arm in both studies. Interestingly, a different pattern 
was seen for ORR (radiological/clinical), where lapatinib was numerically better than trastuzumab, and 
similar to the combination.  
Additional expert consultation 
The SAG Oncology was invited to discuss the plausibility and the relevance in terms of clinical efficacy 
of the observations made based on the subgroups analyses provided by the MAH regarding hormone 
receptor status and tumour histological differentiation. The SAG agreed that the trial had met its 
primary efficacy objective in terms of PFS, although the observed difference between treatments was 
small. The analysis of the secondary endpoint OS showed a larger effect. However, the SAG views 
were split concerning the validity of this finding as well as about the validity of the control arm of 
lapatinib alone.  
According to one view, the PFS results were in broad agreement with OS and the apparent discordance 
in terms of magnitude of the effect was not expected to have an adverse impact on the validity of OS 
as the surrogacy of PFS for OS has not been established. As such, findings in terms of OS were 
considered reliable in view of the size of the effect and the robustness of this objective endpoint. The 
fact that the study was designed in a time period when single arm lapatinib was accepted by many 
institutions as an acceptable study arm, e.g., in the adjuvant “ALLTO” study, was also acknowledged.  
According to an opposing view, the apparent discordance between PFS and OS may be due to a 
number of reasons, including uncertainty in the adjudication of PFS (particularly in the presence of 
clinical progression) and uncertainty in the mechanism of action of the combination. More importantly, 
however, the apparent substantial effect on OS might be due to bias caused by imbalance in post-PD 
therapies, as many patients received one or even more lines of post-PD chemotherapy, or even a 
chance finding. In addition, the observed effects of the lapatinib-trastuzumab combination over a sub-
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 47/77 
 
 
 
optimal comparator were not considered informative about the benefits of this combination compared 
to more active therapeutic options. 
Concerning hormone receptor status and tumour histological differentiation, the SAG considered that 
the observed effect in these exploratory subgroup analyses can only be hypothesis generating, in 
particular in the absence of sound mechanistic basis to support these findings.  
The SAG opinion was sought on whether a biomarker study would be sufficient to address the issue if 
treatment of patients with dual blockade could modulate the effect of subsequent therapy, in particular 
to partially reverse resistance to chemotherapy (in a sense chemo-sensitising), or if a clinical outcome 
study would be preferable. The SAG agreed about the usefulness of a clinical outcome study to confirm 
the role of any biomarkers and highlighted the importance of the choice of biomarkers to ensure that 
adequate conclusions can be drawn from such a study. In order to understand the therapeutic value of 
the combination of lapatinib and trastuzumab, comparison with other possible treatment options for 
the defined patient population should be considered. 
2.3.7.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
On the basis of the available efficacy data and considering the different views expressed by the SAG, 
the CHMP concluded that the reported survival benefit was of clinical relevance and could be attributed 
to lapatininb in combination with trastuzumab based on the clear efficacy results observed from the 
pivotal study, the pharmacodynamic rationale, and supportive data from clinical studies in relevant 
settings. The CHMP concluded that the available evidence was enough to rule out that the observed 
effect was largely due to the small imbalance in post-progression treatment observed. Similarly, the 
CHMP concluded that enough corroborative evidence was available from the pivotal clinical trial 
(qualitative concordance of important efficacy endpoints PFS and OS) and from supportive studies in 
related conditions as well as pharmacodynamic evidence, to rule out that the observed effect could be 
a chance finding (the latter possibility had been raised by one of the different views of the SAG).  
The CHMP acknowledged (as noted by the SAG) that the results of exploratory analyses have to be 
interpreted with caution. Notwithstanding this limitation, results from subgroup analyses have 
suggested an increased benefit in patients with hormonal receptor negative tumours. More 
importantly, however, taking into account the design of the pivotal study and particularly the absence 
of endocrine-based therapy as reference regimen the use of dual blockade in subjects with hormone 
receptor-positive tumours was not considered adequately justified, especially in the light of the 
availability of combined hormonal and HER2 targeting therapy. Therefore, the CHMP concluded that the 
benefit of lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab has been adequately shown in patients with 
hormone receptor-negative metastatic disease only.  
In addition, the claimed indication was amended to adequately reflect that dual HER2 blockade can be 
used only following prior standard of care in the metastatic setting i.e. HER2 blockade in combination 
with chemotherapy in line with the study population in the trial EGF104900. 
The CHMP considered that the mechanistic grounds for the post study treatment effect and the 
relationship between grade of tumour differentiation, HR status and ECD and activity should be further 
investigated and the MAH was requested to evaluate biomarkers of drug resistance in patients with 
HER2+ metastatic breast cancer whilst on treatment with trastuzumab in combination with either 
lapatinib or chemotherapy. The draft study protocol is expected September 2013 and the final results 
in June 2018. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 48/77 
 
 
 
2.3.8.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
The safety database for the present application consisted of 901 subjects treated in four studies 
evaluating patients with HER2- positive breast cancer. Of these 901 patients, a total of 386 received 
the combination of lapatinib and trastuzumab and of those, 370 patients received the dose of lapatinib 
1000 mg which is the dose proposed for this indication. Furthermore, 334 patients received lapatinib 
monotherapy while 181 patients received trastuzumab monotherapy. The studies submitted for the 
safety assessment are the following: phase I study EGF10023, pivotal phase III study EGF104900, two 
supportive phase III and phase II studies (EGF106903 and LPT109096). 
Each of these studies evaluated the use of lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab in women with 
HER2-positive breast cancer but with differences in patient population and treatments. While the 
pivotal study EGF104900 and the supportive study EGF10023 utilised only HER2 blocking substances in 
a population of heavily pre-treated metastatic breast cancer patients, the supporting studies 
EGF106903 and LPT109096 were conducted in the neoadjuvant setting in combination with 
chemotherapy in a study population consisting of treatment naive patients at study entry.  
In the pivotal study, crossover to the combination trastuzumab+lapatinib (L+T) was allowed when 
progression occurred (defined as progression by radiological imaging and/or photography after at least 
4 weeks of lapatinib monotherapy treatment). At four weeks after the initial randomisation to the 
lapatinib arm, 26% crossed over to the combination arm, 26% between the period four to eight weeks 
and 48% after eight weeks. At crossover, the lapatinib dose was reduced from 1500mg to 1000mg 
according to the protocol. The safety data for the 77 subjects that opted to crossover was reported 
separately by the MAH.  
The safety population in the pivotal study included all subjects who received at least one dose of study 
treatment and was based on the actual treatment received if this differed from that to which the 
subject was randomised. 
Only safety data from the pivotal study EGF104900 are presented in this report as relevant to the 
present application. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 49/77 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
Table 41. Study EGF104900 Exposure to study medication (Safety Population)
 a  Two subjects were randomised to the combination arm and received lapatinib, but did not receive 
trastuzumab 
 b  One subject received 1500 mg lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab. During the treatment period, no AEs or SAEs 
were reported and the subject discontinued study treatment due to disease progression. 
Table 42. Study EGF104900 Exposure to lapatinib and trastuzumab (Crossover population) 
a Exposure assessed from the start of crossover to discontinuation of combination therapy. 
Note: At crossover, the lapatinib dose was reduced to 1000 mg and trastuzumab was added to the regimen. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 50/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
Table 43. Study EGF104900 - Adverse events by category (safety population)  
Any AE 
AEs related to study treatment 
AEs leading to permanent 
discontinuation of study treatment 
Any SAE 
SAEs related to study treatment  
Fatal AEs 
Fatal AEs related to study treatment 
                               Number of subjects (%) 
                                   Safety Populationa 
           L+T (n=149) 
              140 (94) 
               113 (76) 
                 17 (11) 
             L (n=146) 
               132 (90) 
                105 (72) 
                    9 (6) 
                40 (27) 
                 12 (8) 
                   3 (2) 
                   1 (<1) 
                 24 (16) 
                   5 (3) 
                   2 (1)                
                   0 
aThe safety population included subjects based on the actual treatment received. Differences in the number of subjects 
from the ITT population were due to two subjects in the lapatinib monotherapy arm who did not receive the treatment to 
which they were allocated and one subject who was excluded from the combination arm as they did not receive any study 
treatment. 
Table 44. Study EGF104900 - Adverse events related to study medication reported by ≥ 5 % 
of subjects in either treatment arm (safety population) 
MedDRA Preferred Term 
Any event 
Diarrhoea 
Rash 
Nausea 
Fatigue 
Vomiting 
Decreased appetite  
Dry skin 
Dermatitis acneiform 
Ejection fraction decreased 
Pruritus 
Anaemia 
Stomatitis 
                                Number of subjects (%)  
                                   Safety Population 
                    L+T (n=149) 
                       113 (76) 
                         80 (54) 
                         28 (19) 
                         28 (19) 
                         22 (15) 
                         15 (10) 
                           9 (6) 
                           7 (5) 
                           8 (5) 
                           8 (5) 
                           5 (3) 
                           4 (3) 
                           2 (1) 
                        L (n=146) 
                         105 (72) 
                           63 (43) 
                           37 (25) 
                           27 (18) 
                           18 (12) 
                           15 (10) 
                           13 (9) 
                             2 (1) 
                           14 (10) 
                             1 (<1) 
                             9 (6) 
                             1 (<1) 
                             4 (3) 
The majority of AEs were considered by the investigator to be treatment-related with an overall 
incidence similar in both the combination arm (76%) and the monotherapy arm (72%). However, 
some differences were noted. The most common AE related to treatment, was diarrhoea with a higher 
frequency in the combination arm compared to lapatinib monotherapy (54% and 43 % respectively). 
Diarrhoea is a known side effect to both lapatinib and trastuzumab (stated as very common in the 
individual SmPCs for both substances). On the other hand, rash that (also a known side effect to both 
individual substances) was more frequently reported in the lapatinib monotherapy arm compared to 
the combination arm (25% and 19% respectively). 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 51/77 
 
 
 
 
 
                
                  
 
                  
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 45. Study EGF104900 - Most common treatment-related adverse events (reported by 
≥ 10% of subjects) in either treatment arm by maximum severity grade (safety population) 
With the exception of rash, overall the most common AEs were reported in a higher frequency and with 
a tendency to increasing severity, in the combination arm compared to the lapatinib monotherapy arm.  
Adverse events in subjects who crossed over to the combination arm  
In the pivotal study, 77 subjects (52%) in the lapatinib monotherapy arm opted to cross over to 
receive combination therapy upon disease progression. In this population, consistent with the safety 
population, the majority of subjects were <65 years (96%). Fifty four subjects (70%) reported AEs 
and thirty-one subjects (40%) had AEs that were considered treatment-related. Withdrawal from the 
study due to AEs occurred in six subjects (8%). SAEs were reported for 10 subjects (13%) and the 
most frequent SAE was ejection fraction decrease (3 patients, 4%).  
Overall, the safety profile for the subjects who opted to crossover was fairly consistent with those 
randomised to the combination arm. 
Adverse events of special interest 
Cardiac, pulmonary (pneumonitis) and rash events are known class effect toxicities of agents that 
target EGFR and/or HER2 receptors. Diarrhoea and hepatobiliary events have been reported for small 
molecule tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Therefore, these adverse events were pre-defined in the 
pivotal study protocol as AEs of special interests.  
Cardiac events 
The study protocol specified that all National cancer institute (NCI) common terminology criteria for 
adverse events (CTCAE) v3.0 ≥ grade 3 left ventricular systolic dysfunction, or left ventricular ejection 
fraction (LVEF) decreases of at least 20% relative to baseline measurements and below the 
institution’s lower limit of normal (LLN), were to be reported as SAEs. LVEF assessments were 
performed at screening (baseline assessment), at week 8 then every 8 weeks while subjects receiving 
study treatment. Furthermore, a LVEF assessment was to be performed upon discontinuation of study 
treatment if the last assessment was ≥8 weeks from the date of the last dose. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 52/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 46. Study EGF104900 - Summary of number of subjects who experienced cardiac 
events that presented with decreased LVEF (safety population) 
a Time to onset of the first cardiac event was calculated as the time from first dose of therapy to diagnosis of a cardiac 
event and its duration as the time from event diagnosis to event resolution. 
Table 47. Study EGF104900 - Characteristics of cardiac events that presented with 
decreased LVEF (safety population) 
In the combination arm, 12 % (5/41) of the subjects with cardiac events had received prior (neo) 
adjuvant radiotherapy that included the heart in the irradiated field while 10 % (3/29) had received 
prior (neo) adjuvant radiotherapy not including the heart. 4 % (2/49) of the subjects that did not 
receive any (neo) adjuvant radiotherapy had cardiac events. In the lapatinib monotherapy arm the 
rates were essentially equal to the rates for those with cardiac events without prior radiotherapy. With 
respect to subjects with cardiac events that had had prior adjuvant radiotherapy that included the 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 53/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
heart in the irradiated field, rates were 12 % in the dual blockade arm versus 0 % in the lapatinib 
monotherapy arm.  
Table 48. Study EGF104900 - Electrocardiogram (ECG) findings (safety population) 
In the crossover population, 29 subjects were evaluable at the end of study and 20 (69%) had normal 
ECG findings. Nine subjects had abnormal ECG findings, all considered to be clinically non-significant 
by the investigator. Only two subjects were ≥ 65 years and one had a normal ECG and one had an 
abnormal but not clinically significant ECG.  
Hepatobiliary events 
Table 49. Study EGF104900 - Summary of number of subjects who experienced 
hepatobiliary events (safety population) 
a One subject died due to hepatic and renal failure and considered unrelated to study treatment by the investigator. 
b Time to onset of the first hepatobiliary event was calculated as the time from first dose of therapy to diagnosis of a 
hepatobiliary event and its duration as the time from event diagnosis to event resolution. 
Note: Subjects may be included in more than one category for event characteristics, outcome and action taken. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 54/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 50. Study EGF104900 - Summary characteristics of hepatobiliary events (safety 
population) 
a If CRF data were missing, it was assumed that AEs were related to the study treatment. 
b One subject died due to hepatic and renal failure 
Note: Subjects may be included in more than one category for event characteristics, outcome and action taken. 
In the crossover population, eight hepatobiliary events were reported in two subjects (3%). One 
subject had events reported as clinically significant hepatic laboratory abnormalities of grade 3 and 4, 
and all resolved including a grade 4 SAE of jaundice cholestatic. All other events were hepatic 
laboratory abnormalities. Six events led to dose interruptions. The other subject had two events which 
resolved with sequelae.  
None of the events led to withdrawal from study. 
Hepatobiliary laboratory abnormalities 
The criteria for reporting elevations in hepatic enzymes as an SAE was defined as: ALT ≥3 x ULN and 
total bilirubin ≥2.0 x ULN (>35% direct; bilirubin fractionation was required where testing was 
available). 
A similar proportion of subjects in both treatment arms had at least one pre-defined hepatobiliary 
laboratory abnormality (Table 51). 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 55/77 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 51. Study EGF104900 - Summary of subjects with hepatobiliary laboratory 
abnormalities (Safety Population) 
The frequency of reported hepatobiliary abnormalities was similar between the treatment arms and 
none met the criteria for Hy’s Law. 
Interstitial lung disease and pneumonitis 
Pulmonary SAEs, including interstitial lung disease and pneumonitis, are associated with both lapatinib 
and trastuzumab. In one subject (1%), one grade 2 event of pneumonitis was reported in the 
crossover population. The event subsequently resolved without a dose reduction or discontinuation of 
study treatment and was not considered serious or related to treatment. 
Rash 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 56/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 52. Study EGF104900 - Summary of number of subjects who experienced rash events 
(Safety Population) 
a. Time to onset of the first rash event was calculated as the time from first dose of therapy to diagnosis of a rash event 
and its duration as the time from event diagnosis to event resolution. 
Note: Preferred terms of acne, dermatitis, eczema, erythema, folliculitis, rash, rash papular, and rash pustular are 
included. 
Table 53. Study EGF104900 - Summary characteristics of rash events (Safety Population) 
a If CRF data were missing, it was assumed that AEs were related to the study treatment. 
Note: Subjects may be included in more than one category for event characteristics, outcome, and action taken. 
Note: Preferred terms of acne, dermatitis, eczema, erythema, folliculitis, rash, rash papular and rash pustular are included. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 57/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the crossover population, nine events of rash were reported in eight subjects (10%). All events were 
grade 1 or grade 2, and none were considered serious. One event led to one dose interruption but no 
dose reductions.   
Diarrhoea 
Table 54. Study EGF104900 - Summary of number of subjects who experienced diarrhoea 
events (Safety Population) 
a Time to onset of the first diarrhoea event was calculated as the time from first dose of randomized treatment to 
diagnosis of a diarrhoea event and its duration as the time from event diagnosis to event resolution. 
Note: Preferred terms of diarrhoea, loose stools, and frequent bowel movements have been included.   
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 58/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 55. Study EGF104900 - Characteristics of diarrhoea adverse events 
a If CRF data were missing, it was assumed that AEs were treatment-related. 
Note: Subjects may be included in more than one category for event characteristics, outcome, and action taken. 
Note: Preferred terms of diarrhoea, loose stools, and frequent bowel movements have been included. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Serious adverse events 
Table 56. Study EGF104900 - Serious adverse event, regardless of relationship, experienced 
by more than one subject (safety population) 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 59/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 57. Study EGF104900 - Treatment-related serious adverse events 
The only treatment-related SAEs that occurred in more than one subject, were cardiac events 
(including decreased ejection fraction, left ventricular dysfunction and cardiac failure) and diarrhoea. 
In the crossover population, SAEs were reported for 10 subjects (13%). Ejection fraction decrease was 
the most frequent SAE (in 3 subjects, 4%). No other SAE was reported by more than one subject. Four 
subjects had SAEs that were considered treatment-related, including two subjects with ejection 
fraction decreases, and one subject with left ventricular dysfunction and one subject with 
thrombocytopenia. 
Deaths 
Table 58. Study EGF104900 - Summary of deaths (safety population and crossover 
population) 
                                          Number of Subjects (%) 
                        Safety Populationa 
Crossover population 
Combination arm 
(n=149) 
Monotherapy arm 
(n=146) 
           (n=77) 
64 (83) 
13 (17) 
120 (82) 
26 (18) 
123 (83) 
26 (17) 
117 (79) 
0 
1 (<1) 
5 (3)b 
0 
Subject Status 
Dead 
Death not reported 
Primary Cause of Death 
Disease under study 
Haematological toxicity 
Non-haematological toxicity 
Other 
Unknown 
Time to Death from Last 
Dose 
≤30 days 
>30 days 
Unknown 
a The number of deaths is based on the Safety Population in which subjects are analysed based on the actual 
treatment received. Note: One subject randomised to the combination arm did not receive any study treatment. 
In addition, 2 subjects who were randomised to receive monotherapy treatment inadvertently received 
combination therapy. 
b Three deaths were due to fatal SAEs, 2 deaths were due to disease progression.  
c One death was caused by disease progression, while the other death was ascribed to unknown causes 
118 (81) 
0 
0 
2 (1)c 
0 
63 (82) 
0 
0 
1 (1) 
0 
14 (9) 
109 (73) 
0 
16 (11) 
104 (71) 
0 
8 (10) 
56 (73) 
0 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 60/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 59. Study EGF104900 - Fatal SAEs regardless of relationship (safety population) 
MedDRA Preferred Term 
Any fatal SAE 
Cardiac failure 
Pulmonary embolism 
Respiratory failure 
Sepsis 
Hepatic failure 
Renal failure 
Internal injury 
                                          Number of subjects (%) 
                                              Safety Population 
                    L+T (n=149) 
                          3 (2) 
                          1 (<1)a 
                          1 (<1)a 
                          1 (<1) 
                          1 (<1) 
                          0 
                          0 
                          0                      
                        L (n=146) 
                          2 (1) 
                          0 
                          0 
                          0 
                          0 
                          1 (<1)b 
                          1 (<1)b 
                          1 (<1)                    
a  Both these SAEs occurred in the same subject 
b  Both these SAEs occurred in the same subject 
Laboratory findings 
Haematology 
Overall, the majority of haematology events were of severity grade 1-2 and consistent with this study 
population of heavily pre-treated patients with advanced breast cancer. The most commonly reported 
grade 3 haematology parameter was lymphocyte count with 28 subjects in the combination arm and 
13 subjects in the lapatinib monotherapy arm. In the combination arm, one subject experienced a 
grade 3 haemoglobin decrease while none was observed in the lapatinib arm. Concerning neutrophil 
count events, twelve patients exhibited grade 4 in the combination arm as compared to three patients 
in the lapatinib arm. Two subjects had SAEs of grade 3 febrile neutropenia of which one event was 
considered treatment-related (occurred following discontinuation of combination therapy, when the 
subject was receiving post-study treatment with nab-paclitaxel). The second event occurred within 
30 days of discontinuing combination therapy and was not considered treatment-related. 
Clinical chemistry 
The majority of clinical chemistry events were of grade 1-2 in both treatment arms. The most 
commonly reported grade 3 clinical chemistry parameters were elevated alkaline phosphatase (ALP) 
(5% of subjects in both the combination and monotherapy arm) and elevated aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST) (in 3% of subjects in the combination arm, and 5% of subjects in the 
monotherapy arm). 
Safety in special populations 
Age  
The vast majority of subjects were less than 65 years of age: 259 (88%) were < 65 years and 37 
(12%) ≥ 65 years. Nine patients (3%) were ≥ 75 years.  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 61/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 60. Study EGF104900 - Summary of effect of age on adverse events 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Study EGF10023 was a phase I open-label study conducted to determine the safety, tolerability, 
optimally tolerated regimen (OTR), and pharmacokinetics of lapatinib and trastuzumab in combination. 
Fifty-four subjects with breast cancer whose tumours over-expressed HER2 were enrolled into three 
cohorts. The most common drug related AEs reported were diarrhoea (81%), rash (54%), fatigue 
(52%), and nausea (50%). No drug-related deaths were reported. No clinically significant changes 
were observed for any laboratory value or vital sign.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Table 61. Study EGF104900 - Summary of adverse events leading to discontinuation of study 
treatment reported for ≥ 1% of subjects in either arm regardless of relationship to study 
medication 
MedDRA Preferred Term 
Any AE leading to discontinuation 
Blood bilirubin increase 
Headache 
Thrombocytopenia 
Fatigue 
Diarrhoea 
                  Number of subjects (%) 
                       Safety population 
L+T (n=149) 
17 (11) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
1(<1) 
0 
L (n=146) 
9 (6) 
0 
0 
0 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
In the pivotal study, a total of 17 subjects (11%) in the combination arm and 9 subjects (6%) in the 
lapatinib arm discontinued study treatment due to AEs. Discontinuations due to diarrhoea occurred 
only in the lapatinib arm.  
In the crossover population, six subjects (8%) experienced AEs that led to treatment discontinuation. 
These were hypoxia, respiratory failure, thrombocytopenia, left ventricular dysfunction, asthenia, 
ejection fraction decreased, and back pain and each were experienced by one subject, with the 
exception of hypoxia and back pain that were experienced by the same subject. 
Adverse events leading to dose delays for lapatinib 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 62/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 62. Study EGF104900 - Summary of dose delays for Lapatinib (Safety Population) 
No difference between treatment arms could be seen in regards to subjects that required dose delays. 
Regarding the causes for the delays, the majority were due to non-hematologic toxicity. The incidence 
of non-hematologic toxicity was similar between arms.  
A similar dose delay and reduction profile was observed for the crossover population. Sixteen subjects 
(21%) had a lapatinib dose delay, and 14 subjects (18%) had a trastuzumab dose delay. 
Adverse events leading to dose delays for trastuzumab 
Dose delays caused by trastuzumab occurred in 40 subjects (27%) and with a total number of dose 
delays of 77. Median duration was 8 (range 4-22) days. The majority (25 (17%)) had only one delay. 
The main causes were neither hematologic (1(1%)) nor non-haematological toxicity (14 (18%)) but 
were referred to as “others” and amounted to a total number of dose delays of 62 (81%). “Others” 
encompassed a total of 39 subjects experiencing 70 instances of trastuzumab being delayed: one for 
haematologic toxicity, 14 for non-haematological toxicity and 55 for “other” reasons. 
Thirty-seven out of 55 instances of trastuzumab administration delay were due to administrative or 
logistical reasons seemingly unrelated to toxicity. From the remaining instances, of delay for “other” 
causes, no defined pattern of adverse events could be disclosed. 
Adverse events leading to lapatinib dose reductions 
Out of the safety population of 149 subjects in the combination arm and 146 in the lapatinib arm, nine 
and five subjects respectively, required a dose reduction. The total number of dose reductions was nine 
in the combination arm and seven in the lapatinib monotherapy arm. The main reason for dose 
reduction was non-hematologic toxicity, similar in both arms. No subjects had a trastuzumab dose 
reduction as specified in the protocol.  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 63/77 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.9.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall, common adverse events were reported with a similar frequency between the two treatment 
arms with the most common adverse events being, diarrhoea, nausea, rash, fatigue and vomiting. The 
majority of the AEs were of severity grade 1-2, considered manageable and resolved. 
Although the common AEs were reported in a similar frequency between the treatment arms, there 
was an increase in individual SAEs with in general a higher frequency in the combination arm 
compared to the lapatinib arm. The exception was rash that was reported in the lapatinib monotherapy 
arm to a slightly higher extent.  
Due to the established toxicity profile of the two active substances, AEs of special interest were 
specified in the protocol and encompassed cardiac, pulmonary, hepatobiliary, rash and diarrhoea 
events.  
In the pivotal study, a higher rate of cardiac events was observed in the combination arm, with 
increased severity, earlier onset and longer duration of event which also were reflected in the action 
taken in regards to study treatment. One fatal SAE occurred in the combination arm that was 
considered treatment-related. However, the majority of the cardiac events was of grade 1-2 
(asymptomatic) and did subsequently resolve. 
The population consisted of heavily pre-treated patients that had received numerous previous 
regimens prior to study entry. Since few prior radiation treatment details were collected in EGF104900 
it was not possible to evaluate whether prior radiotherapy may have increased the incidence of cardiac 
toxicity observed in the analysis. Nevertheless, there were a limited number of subjects in the analyses 
and overall few cardiac events reported in EGF104900 (n=14, any grade) which was considered 
acceptable. In addition, cardiac events are adequately addressed in the Risk Management Plan. The 
current product information also reflects that the incidence of cardiac adverse events was increased 
with the combination treatment of lapatinib and trastuzumab compared with lapatinib monotherapy. 
Cardiac events (including asymptomatic and symptomatic Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction and 
Congestive Heart Failure) should continue to be monitored through routine pharmacovigilance activities 
as recommended in the last renewal (EMEA/H/C/000795/R/0028). 
Regarding the observed differences between normal and abnormal ECG findings from screening until 
end of study between the two treatment arms, a relatively small proportion of subjects in both 
treatment arms had post-baseline ECGs thus hampering the possibility to identify any trends towards 
worsening ECG findings during the course of the study treatment. Further data were requested with 
regard to the potential risk of QT prolongation. Pre-clinical, clinical, and post-marketing data presented 
by the MAH do not suggest any synergistic effect on QTc when lapatinib and trastuzumab are 
combined in the clinical setting.  With respect to trastuzumab, there is currently limited evidence of 
any clinically significant QT effect. The lack of information on the potential for lapatinib to prolong the 
QT interval is already addressed in the current product information (section 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC). 
The MAH will continue to monitor for reports of torsades de pointes and QT prolongation through 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
One grade 2 event of pneumonitis was reported for one subject (1%) who crossed over to the 
combination treatment. The event subsequently resolved without a dose reduction or discontinuation of 
study treatment and was not considered serious or related to treatment. 
Regarding hepatobiliary events, the addition of trastuzumab to lapatinib did not increase the risk and 
median time of onset to any large extent.  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 64/77 
 
 
 
Rash events were commonly reported but more importantly, did not increase with the addition of 
trastuzumab to lapatinib treatment. However, while the median time to onset was similar, the median 
duration was longer in the combination arm. Based on the safety information available, no changes to 
the product information of Tyverb or additional risk management measures are warranted. 
Diarrhoea was the most common reported AE (62% in the combination arm versus 48% in the 
lapatinib arm) though the majority was of grade 1-2. The addition of trastuzumab to lapatinib did lead 
to a higher frequency of AEs reported but no apparent increase in severity or duration. This is 
adequately reflected in section 4.8 of the SmPC. The median time to onset was also similar between 
both treatment arms. 
As expected in this late-stage breast cancer study population, the cause of death for the majority of 
subjects was death by disease progression. The rates were low and similar over both treatment arms 
and crossover population (overall approximately 80%).  
In general, the majority of the number of clinical chemistry events reported, occurred during the 
subsequent weeks after start of study treatment and then decreased over time, which may reflect side 
effects not yet resolved from the previous treatments. 
Overall, AEs that led to discontinuation of study treatment were reported in a higher rate in the 
combination arm compared to the lapatinib arm (11% and 6%, respectively). However, none were 
reported by more than two subjects and no specific adverse event was reported as the cause for a 
discontinuation.   
The study population consisted in a vast majority of patients aged under 65 years old and only 
approximately 10% were aged 65 years old or older. The lack of data in this special population is 
reflected in the section 4.2 of the SmPC and addressed in the RMP. 
2.3.10.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
Overall, the most common adverse events observed were diarrhoea, nausea, rash, fatigue and 
vomiting and the increases in toxicity observed when adding lapatinib to trastuzumab were in general 
manageable.  
The higher incidence of cardiac events, including LVEF decreases, when lapatinib was administered in 
combination with trastuzumab in the metastatic setting (7%) versus the lapatinib alone arm (2%) in 
the pivotal trial is adequately reflected in section 4.4 of the current product information. These events 
were comparable in nature and severity to those reported from the lapatinib clinical programme. 
In conclusion, the observed toxicity profile observed in the pivotal study EGF104900 is consistent with 
the known toxicity profile of both lapatinib and trastuzumab and no evidence of a new safety signal 
was detected.  
2.3.11.  PSUR cycle  
The PSUR cycle remains unchanged.  
The Annex II to the CHMP opinion related to the PSUR refers to the EURD list which remains 
unchanged.  
2.4.  Risk management plan 
The MAH submitted an updated Risk Management Plan (RMP) (version 19) in the new format within 
this variation procedure which includes a risk minimisation plan.  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 65/77 
 
 
 
Table 63: Summary of the Safety Concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Main identified risks 
Main potential risks 
Additional information to be provided 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Hepatobiliary events 
Decreased LVEF 
Pneumonitis/ILD 
Diarrhoea 
Rash 
Interactions with Other Drugs 
QTc prolongation 
Food effect 
Children 
The Elderly 
Pregnant or lactating females 
Patients with hepatic disease 
Patients with renal disease 
Patients with low cardiac ejection fraction 
Patients of different racial and / or ethnic origin 
Table 64: Measures in the Pharmacovigilance development plan 
Study/activity 
including study 
number) 
Objectives 
Status 
09DMR017 Lapatinib 
Metabolite Identification 
in Dog Plasma, Bile and 
Liver 
110858 (GERICO): 
Phase II Study 
Evaluating the Activity 
of the Combination 
Lapatinib plus 
Capecitabine in Elderly 
Patients Aged 70 and 
Older with Locally 
Advanced or Metastatic 
Breast Cancer (MBC) 
Over-expressing HER2+ 
Development of an 
animal model to study 
tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor-induced 
mucosal injury and 
diarrhoea (NCS/Keefe). 
EGF114271: A study to 
evaluate the effect of 
lapatinib on QT interval 
in patients with cancer. 
EGF115152 (PGx397): 
Whole genome 
sequencing of lapatinib 
concurrent ALT/TBL 
elevation and extreme 
ALT elevation cases 
LAP112539: A Phase II 
Study of Lapatinib and 
Bevacizumab in Children 
with Recurrent or 
Refractory Ependymoma 
LAP113130 (LANTERN): 
A randomised phase II 
screening trial with 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
To identify lapatinib 
metabolites in dog plasma, 
bile and liver. 
To assess clinical benefit 
(defined at 4 months as 
complete response, partial 
response or stable disease), 
safety and preserved geriatric 
independence. 
Investigation of mechanisms 
of TKI monotherapy-induced 
diarrhoea in the rat, and 
dose-finding for long course 
chemotherapy-induced 
diarrhoea. 
This study is designed to 
estimate the effect of supra-
therapeutic doses of lapatinib 
on QTcF interval as compared 
to placebo. No formal 
hypothesis will be tested. 
This interim objective is to 
provide DRB1*07:01, 
DQA1*02:01 and UGT1A1*28 
genotype results in selected 
hepatic SAE cases who 
presented in lapatinib 
clinical trials. 
To estimate the sustained 
objective response rates (CR 
plus PR) to lapatinib 700 
mg/m2/dose bid, 
bevacizumab 10 mg/kg iv q 2 
weeks to children with 
recurrent or refractory 
ependymoma. 
To investigate the effect of 
lapatinib plus capecitabine 
compared with trastuzumab 
Safety 
concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed 
Mechanism of 
hepatotoxicity 
Ongoing 
Date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results 
2Q2013 
Use in the 
Elderly 
Terminated 
2014 
Mechanism of 
diarrhoea 
Ongoing 
Estimated 2Q2012 
Potential for QTc 
prolongation 
Ongoing 
4Q2014 
Risk factors for 
hepatotoxicity 
Ongoing 
2Q2013 
Use in children 
Ongoing 
Estimated 2Q2012 
Concomitant use 
of 
corticosteroids 
Ongoing 
4Q2013 
Page 66/77 
 
 
 
 
Status 
Safety 
concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed 
with lapatinib 
Date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results 
Use in the 
elderly 
Ongoing 
December 2013 
Diarrhoea 
Planned start 
1Q2013 
16-Dec-2016 
Study/activity 
including study 
number) 
Objectives 
functional imaging and 
patient reported toxicity 
sub-studies comparing 
LApatiNib plus 
capecitabine versus 
continued Trastuzumab 
plus capecitabine after 
local therapy in patients 
with ERb B2 positive 
metastatic breast cancer 
developing braiN 
metastasis/es. 
LAP114443: An open-
label Phase II study of 
lapatinib plus 
trastuzumab 
combination in subjects 
of age ≥60 years with 
HER2-positive MBC. 
EGF115925: Safety and 
Efficacy of the 
Combination of 
Lapatinib, Trastuzumab 
and Docetaxel Followed 
by Maintenance 
Lapatinib and 
Trastuzumab as First 
Line Treatment in 
Her2/neu Positive 
Metastatic Breast 
Cancer. 
plus capecitabine on time to 
progression of CNS 
metastases as measured by 
Response Evaluation Criteria 
In Solid Tumors (RECIST).  
Secondary objectives include: 
Total days of steroid use for 
palliation of CNS symptoms. 
To estimate the rate of grade 
3 or higher toxicities in adults 
aged 60 or older receiving the 
combination of trastuzumab 
and lapatinib for metastatic 
breast cancer. 
The primary objective of the 
study is to evaluate the 
safety of the combination of 
lapatinib, trastuzumab and 
docetaxel followed by 
maintenance lapatinib and 
trastuzumab as first line 
treatment in Her2/neu 
positive metastatic breast 
cancer. The safety criteria 
used is the incidence of grade 
3 and 4 diarrhoea. Therefore 
the study has been 
designated as a TSS by GSK. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Table 65: Summary table of Risk Minimisation Measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional risk minimisation 
Hepatobiliary Events 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None. 
measures 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of the 
hepatobiliary events reported, 
prompting evaluation and review by 
the SRT. 
- IDMCs are instructed to review 
hepatobiliary events for the studies 
they monitor. 
- Warning and Adverse Reaction in 
the SmPC. 
- PL includes comparable wording. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 67/77 
 
 
 
 
Decreased LVEF 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None. 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of the 
hepatobiliary events reported, 
prompting evaluation and review by 
the SRT. 
- IDMCs are instructed to review 
cardiac events for the studies they 
monitor. 
- Regular cardiac monitoring by 
Echocardiogram/MUGA during 
clinical trials, and at study 
completion or withdrawal. 
- Warning and Adverse Reaction in 
the SmPC. 
- PL includes comparable wording. 
Pneumonitis/ILD 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None. 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of 
pulmonary events reported, 
prompting evaluation and review by 
the SRT. 
- IDMCs are instructed to review 
pneumonitis/ILD for the studies they 
monitor. 
- Review of pulmonary toxicity 
included in the remit of lapatinib 
IDMCs. 
- Warning and Adverse Reaction in 
the SmPC. 
- PL includes comparable wording. 
Diarrhoea 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None. 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of 
lapatinib associated diarrhoea, 
prompting evaluation and review by 
the SRT. 
- Warning and Adverse Reaction in 
the SmPC. 
- PL includes comparable wording. 
Rash 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None. 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of 
lapatinib associated rash, prompting 
evaluation and review by the SRT. 
- Adverse reaction in the SmPC. 
- PL includes comparable wording. 
Interactions with other Drugs 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
used to identify any changes in the 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 68/77 
 
 
 
signal for interactions with other 
drugs, prompting evaluation and 
review by the SRT. 
- Warning and Interactions with 
other medicinal products included in 
the SmPC. 
- PL includes comparable wording. 
QTc Prolongation 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of the 
QT related events reported, 
prompting evaluation and review by 
the SRT. 
- Warning included in the SmPC. 
Food Effects 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
used to identify any signal for food 
related effects, prompting evaluation 
and review by the SRT. 
- Included as an Interaction in the 
SmPC 
PL includes comparable wording 
Children 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
used to identify any paediatric 
events reported. 
- Included in posology section of the 
SmPC. 
Elderly 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of 
adverse events reported from the 
elderly. 
- Included in posology section of the 
SmPC. 
Pregnant or Lactating Females 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of 
pregnancy reports, prompting 
evaluation and review by the SRT. 
- Pregnancy Section in the SmPC. 
- PL includes comparable wording. 
Patients with Hepatic Disease 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of 
events reported from patients with 
hepatic disease, prompting 
evaluation and review by the SRT. 
- Included in posology section of the 
SmPC. 
- PL includes comparable wording. 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 69/77 
 
 
 
Patients with Renal Disease 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of 
events reported from patients with 
renal disease, prompting evaluation 
and review by the SRT. 
- Included in posology section of the 
SmPC. 
Patients with low cardiac ejection 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
fraction 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of 
events reported from patients with 
low LVEF at baseline, prompting 
evaluation and review by the SRT. 
- Included as a warning in the 
SmPC. 
- PL includes comparable wording. 
Patients of different racial and / or 
- Routine pharmacovigilance will be 
None 
ethnic origin 
used to identify any changes in the 
reporting rate, or the nature of 
events reported from patients of 
different racial and/or ethnic origin, 
prompting evaluation and review by 
the SRT. 
No new pharmacovigilance activities in addition to those already being performed are considered 
needed to monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
The following study has been included in the risk management plan under the summary of post 
authorisation efficacy development plan. 
Objective 
The primary objective will be to 
evaluate changes in biomarkers 
associated with drug resistance 
during treatment. 
Milestones 
Draft protocol will be 
available in 
September 2013 
Due dates 
Protocol Approved: March 
2014 
First Subject First Visit: 
August 2014 
Study Report: June 2018 
End of Study Report: June 
2018 
Description of study 
EGF117165:  A two-arm 
study to evaluate 
biomarkers of drug 
resistance in patients with 
HER2+ metastatic breast 
cancer whilst on 
treatment with 
trastuzumab in 
combination with either 
lapatinib or 
chemotherapy. Scientific 
advice will be sought in 
September 2013. 
The RMP submitted was considered adequate by the CHMP. 
2.5.  Update of the Product information   
The CHMP agreed to the following indication to be added in section 4.1 of the SmPC: 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 70/77 
 
 
 
 
 
“Tyverb is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with breast cancer, whose tumours overexpress 
HER2 (ErbB2); 
• 
in combination with trastuzumab for patients with hormone receptor-negative metastatic 
disease  that has progressed on prior trastuzumab therapy(ies) in combination with chemotherapy (see 
Section 5.1).” 
As a consequence of this new indication, sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC have been updated. 
The Package Leaflet (PL) has been updated accordingly. 
Changes were also made to the PI to bring it in line with the current QRD template and make minor 
corrections which were accepted by the CHMP.  
In addition, the list of local representatives in the PL has been revised to add contact details for the 
representative of Croatia. 
The originally approved package leaflet for Tyverb in combination with capecitabine has undergone full 
user testing in line with the applicable regulations. The proposed format and content of the package 
leaflet for the applied indication in combination with trastuzumab are effectively identical to that of the 
authorised package leaflet for the currently authorised combinations. As such, the proposed package 
leaflet remains consistent with previous user testing recommendations and no full user consultation 
with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed. The justification submitted by 
the applicant was acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The pivotal study EGF104900 investigated the effect of dual HER2 blockade with trastuzumab and 
lapatinib versus lapatinib monotherapy in metastatic breast cancer progressing on a trastuzumab-
containing regimen. 
The treatment effect observed in the primary endpoint, PFS by investigator assessment, was limited to 
a median difference of about 4 weeks (HR 0.73 (95% CI: 0.57, 0.93). The key secondary endpoint, 
overall survival, showed an apparent treatment effect that was considerably more substantial, with a 
difference in medians of 4.5 months (HR 0.74 (0.57, 0.97)).  
In subgroup analysis by hormone receptor status, an increased benefit of lapatinib and trastuzumab 
was observed in hormone-receptor negative patients with a median overall survival of 17.2 months 
(95% CI: 13.9, 19.2) in the combination arm versus 8.9 months (95% CI: 6.7, 11.8) in the 
monotherapy arm (HR=0.62) in comparison to 12 months (95% CI: 9.4, 15.4) in the combination arm 
and 11.2 months (95% CI: 8.0, 15.4) in the monotherapy (HR=0.84) in hormone-receptor positive 
patients. An increased magnitude of effect in hormone receptor negative subjects was also observed 
for ORR. Similar findings were replicated in a number of studies.    
The findings were replicated in a study comparing dual HER2 blockade versus single blockade, albeit 
with pertuzumab and not lapatinib (CLEOPATRA) and similarly in a study with trastuzumab emtansine 
versus trastuzumab on top of a taxane. Efficient HER2 targeting thus appears to change the behaviour 
of the tumour post progression. Mechanistic studies will therefore be conducted post licensure of this 
new indication aiming at explaining these findings.   
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 71/77 
 
 
 
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
There was a concern of the inappropriateness of the control arm for subjects with hormone receptor-
positive tumours since dual blockade (trastuzumab and lapatinib) has not been studied in comparison 
with hormone therapy in this population. Therefore the indication is restricted to patients with hormone 
receptor-negative tumours. 
Data from exploratory analyses were suggestive of an increased overall benefit (PFS, OS, ORR) for 
subjects with serum HER2 ECD concentrations >15 ng/mL.  However, serum HER2 ECD has not been 
confirmed as predictive of activity of dual blockade in any external study. Further data on biomarkers 
should be provided as an obligation to conduct post-authorisation measure. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Adverse events were reported in similar proportions in the two treatment arms. In addition, a similarity 
in treatment-related AEs between the two treatment arms was observed. However, SAEs were more 
frequently reported in the combination arm compared to lapatinib arm. Furthermore, differences 
between the treatment arms with respect to specific AEs were observed. These included an increased 
frequency in the combination arm compared to the lapatinib arm of diarrhoea events and cardiac 
events though the majority were of toxicity grade 1-2 and transient. Hepatobiliary events were 
reported in similar frequencies in the treatment arms even though there was a difference in the 
number of reported events for the individual subjects between the arms.  No major increase in reports 
on rash toxicity was observed when adding trastuzumab to lapatinib. A total of 17 subjects (11%) in 
the combination arm and 9 subjects (6%) in the lapatinib arm discontinued study treatment due to 
AEs.  
After the exclusion of deaths due to disease progression, the numbers of fatal adverse events in the 
pivotal study were low and well balanced between the two arms.    
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The number of patients ≥ 65 years included in the pivotal study is limited (n= 37 (12%)). Patients in 
the elderly population present with an increase in concurrent medical conditions and are therefore 
expected to exhibit more adverse events although major differences may not be anticipated. A 
meaningful comparison of the rate of AEs, AEs leading to discontinuation, SAEs, and fatal AEs in the 
pivotal study, is not possible in this age group. The fact that there are limited data on the use of 
Tyverb in combination with trastuzumab in patients aged ≥ 65 years is reflected in the SmPC. 
Benefit-Risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
While the modest improvement in PFS observed the ITT population for the combination of trastuzumab 
and lapatinib compared with single agent lapatinib might not be considered clinically relevant, the 
median OS benefit of 4.5 months is substantial and of clinical relevance for patients in this late-line of 
therapy.  
Although the choice of the comparator might have led to an overestimation of the benefit of the 
combination therapy, this is not a concern for patients with hormone receptor negative tumours taking 
into consideration the magnitude of the OS benefit and in light of current practice. The difference in 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 72/77 
 
 
 
median OS observed in exploratory analysis between the combination and monotherapy arms in this 
subgroup is considered clinically relevant. However, the benefit in patients with hormone-receptor 
positive tumour is questioned due to the lack of comparative data with endocrine-based therapy and 
considering the results from subgroup analyses. Thus the indication is restricted to patients with 
hormone-receptor negative tumour. 
Regarding the safety of the combination lapatinib and trastuzumab, adverse events were common and 
an increased frequency was reported in the combination arm. Particularly, the incidence of cardiac 
events including LVEF decreases was higher (7%) when lapatinib was administered in combination with 
trastuzumab versus the lapatinib alone arm (2%) in the pivotal trial in the metastatic setting. 
However, the majority of adverse events were transient grade 1-2 events and manageable. No new 
safety signal was detected and the adverse events were consistent with the known safety profiles of 
both trastuzumab and lapatinib. 
Benefit-risk balance 
A major survival gain was reported in the pivotal study for patients receiving the combination lapatinib 
and trastuzumab. Although limited, the PFS results (primary endpoint) were in broad agreement with 
the OS and the apparent discordance in terms of magnitude of the effect should not have an adverse 
impact on the validity of OS results. The same applies to the results of the subgroup analysis in 
patients with hormone receptor negative disease where a PFS benefit of approximately 2 months 
(although not statistically significant) and a significant OS improvement of approximately 6 months 
were observed.  
With regards to the safety of combination of lapatinib with trastuzumab no new safety signals were 
identified in the overall population. The slight increase in the incidence of SAEs is outweighed by the 
clear clinical relevant effect in terms of overall survival.  
Based on the available efficacy and safety data, the CHMP considers that the observed benefits 
outweigh the tolerability of lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab. 
Discussion on the Benefit-Risk Balance 
Based on the available efficacy data and considering the report from the SAG, the CHMP concludes that 
the reported survival benefit is of clinical relevance and attributable to the activity of lapatinib in 
combination with trastuzumab.  
Explanatory data on the role of biomarkers will be collected in a post-authorisation study to evaluate 
whether treatment with lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab could modulate the behaviour of the 
tumour post-progression.  
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends, by a majority of 25 out of 29 votes, the variation to the terms of the Marketing 
Authorisation, concerning the following changes: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 73/77 
 
 
 
 
Extension of indication to include treatment for adult patients with breast cancer whose tumours 
overexpress HER2 (ErbB2), in combination with trastuzumab for patients with hormone receptor-
negative metastatic disease, that has progressed on prior trastuzumab therapy(ies) in combination 
with chemotherapy. As a consequence sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC have been updated. 
The Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. Changes were also made to the PI to bring it in line with 
the QRD template version 9 and make minor corrections. In addition, the list of local representatives in 
the PL is revised to add contact details for the representative of Croatia. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC, Annex II and Package Leaflet. 
This CHMP recommendation is subject to the following amended conditions: 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) ) provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and  published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time.  
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures  
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
Due date 
To present data in patients with hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast 
cancer, not currently intended for chemotherapy, and previously treated with 
trastuzumab from: 
1. A randomised and controlled clinical trial (EGF114299) in a patient population 
essentially identical to that of EGF30008 except that subjects must have received 
prior treatment with trastuzumab, with aromatase inhibitor (AI) + trastuzumab 
included as the reference arm. 
Final clinical study report  
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
May 2018 
Page 74/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Approximately 70 patients from study EGF114299 who have been randomised to 
the lapatinib + AI arm with an exposure of approximately 6 months. 
June 2014 
The clinical study report (70 patients) should include the following data: 
Demographic and baseline characteristics, Disease characteristics, Prior anti-cancer 
therapies, Overall Response Rate (ORR), Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Serious 
Adverse Experiences (SAE)s 
To present an updated analysis of survival for the mature dataset for study 
December 
EGF30008 
2013 
To evaluate biomarkers of drug resistance in patients with HER2+ metastatic breast 
June 2018 
cancer whilst on treatment with trastuzumab in combination with either lapatinib or 
chemotherapy 
Specific Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures for the 
conditional marketing authorisation 
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14(7) of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
To provide comparative data on the incidence of CNS metastases from studies 
EGF108919 (COMPLETE), EGF105485 (TEACH) and EGF106708 (ALTTO) 
Due date 
December 
2014 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 75/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1 
DIVERGENT POSITIONS 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 76/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIVERGENT POSITION EXPRESSED BY CHMP MEMBERS 
The  undersigned  members  of  CHMP  did  not  agree  with  the  CHMP’s  opinion  recommending  the 
extension of indication variation for Tyverb (EMEA/H/C/000795/II/22). 
The reasons for divergent opinion were as follows: 
1.  The  use  of  lapatinib  as  active  comparator  is  highly  questionable,  as  the  drug  is  not  approved  as 
monotherapy in the sought indication, and it is considered not to be among the currently best options 
of care available for these patients in the clinical setting. It is thus not possible to soundly evaluate the 
magnitude of the effect and clinical relevance of the combination lapatinib + trastuzumab in the sought 
indication. 
2. There are uncertainties on the reliability of the reported Overall Survival (OS) benefit in view of the 
modest Progression Free Survival (PFS) gain (4 weeks). It cannot be excluded that the results on OS 
are highly overestimated or that this is a chance finding. 
3.  The  restricted  indication  in  patients  with  hormone  receptor  (HR)  negative  is  based  on  a  post-hoc 
subgroup analysis that showed a larger effect on median OS on the basis of the HR status. However, 
no robust rational supporting a differential effect of the dual blockade of HER2 in HR negative patients 
is available. The results of the subgroups analysis can only be considered to generate hypothesis and 
are inadequate to define the target population. 
Based on the above, the benefit-risk balance in the claimed indication cannot be considered positive. 
London, 27 June 2013 
……………………………..……………  
..………………………………………… 
Daniela Melchiorri 
Pierre Demolis   
……………………………..……………  
..………………………………………… 
Barbara van Zwieten-Boot 
Hubert Leufkens 
Tyverb 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/69582/2013 
Page 77/77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
