Summary of the risk management plan for Tyverb® (Lapatinib)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tyverb. The RMP details 
important  risks  of  Tyverb,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  Tyverb  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information).
Tyverb's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Tyverb 
should be used.
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Tyverb  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information 
its 
plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment 
Report (EPAR).
including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates 
of Tyverb's RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Tyverb contains lapatinib as the active substance and it is used for in the following 
indications:
Tyverb is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with breast cancer, whose 
tumours overexpress human epidermal growth factor receptor-2;



In  combination  with  capecitabine  for  patients  with  advanced  or  metastatic 
disease  with  progression  following  prior  therapy,  which  must  have  included 
anthracyclines  and  taxanes  and  therapy  with  trastuzumab  in  the  metastatic 
setting.
In combination with trastuzumab for patients with hormone receptor-negative 
metastatic disease that has progressed on prior trastuzumab therapy (ies) in 
combination with chemotherapy.
In  combination  with  an  aromatase  inhibitor  for  postmenopausal  women  with 
hormone  receptor  positive  metastatic  disease,  not  currently  intended  for 
chemotherapy.
Additional details on the approved indications are available in the SmPC.
Route of administration, pharmaceutical forms and strengths:
Tyverb is available as 250 mg film-coated tablets.
Additional details are available in the SmPC.
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Tyverb’s benefits  can  be  found  in 
Tyverb’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage: link to product’s 
EPAR 
webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/tyverb.
summary 
landing 
page 
EMA 
the 
on 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or
further characterize the risks
Important risks of Tyverb, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Tyverb’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so 
to ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report, so 
that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Tyverb is not yet available, 
it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Tyverb are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks 
are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with  the use of Tyverb. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
None
Important potential risks
None
Missing information

Pregnant or lactating females
II.B: Summary of important risks
There are no important identified or potential risks for Tyverb.
Table 2
Important missing information: Pregnant or lactating 
females
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures
Section 4.6 of the SmPC.
Additional risk minimization measures
None
II.C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
None
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
None
