EMA/450563/2021 
EMEA/H/C/004019 
Ucedane (carglumic acid) 
An overview of Ucedane and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ucedane and what is it used for? 
Ucedane is a medicine used for the treatment of hyperammonaemia (high blood levels of ammonia) in 
patients with  the following  metabolic diseases:  
•  N-acetylglutamate synthase (NAGS) deficiency. Patients  with this  lifelong disease lack a liver 
enzyme called NAGS, which normally helps to  break down ammonia. If the enzyme is not 
present, ammonia cannot be broken down and it builds up  in the blood ; 
• 
some organic acidaemias (isovaleric acidaemia, methylmalonic acidaemia and propionic 
acidaemia) where patients lack certain enzymes involved in protein metabolism. 
Ucedane contains the  active substance carglumic acid and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Ucedane contains the  same active substance and works in the same way as  a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in  the European Union  (EU) called Carbaglu. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Ucedane used? 
Ucedane is available as dispersible tablets (200  mg) that are to be dispersed (mixed) in a small 
amount of water. The medicine can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment should be 
started by a doctor who has experience in treating  patients with  meta bolic diseases. 
In patients with  NAGS deficiency, treatment may be started as early as the first day of life  and the 
medicine is used for the patient’s whole life. In patients with  organic acidaemias, treatment is started 
when the patient  has a hyperammonaemia crisis and continued until  the crisis is finished.  
The initial daily dose of Ucedane should be 100 mg per kilogram body weight,  but up  to 250 mg/kg can 
be used if necessary. The dose should then be adjusted to  maintain nor mal blood ammonia levels.  
For more information about using Ucedane, see the package leaflet or contact  your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How does Ucedane work? 
When ammonia builds  up in the blood, it is toxic to the body, especially the brain. The active substance 
in Ucedane, carglumic acid, is very similar in structure to  N-acetylglutamate, which activates an 
enzyme that  breaks down ammonia. Ucedane therefore helps break down ammonia, reducing 
ammonia blood levels and its toxic effects. 
How has Ucedane been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved use have already been 
carried out with  the reference medicine, Carbaglu, and do not  need to be repeated for Ucedane.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies  on the  quality of Ucedane. The company also 
carried out a study that  showed that  it  is ‘bioequivalent’ to the  reference medicine. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in  the body and are therefore 
expected to have the  same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Ucedane? 
Because Ucedane is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits and 
risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Ucedane authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with  EU requirements, Ucedane has 
been shown  to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Carbaglu. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that,  as for Carbaglu, the benefits of Ucedane outweigh the  identified risk and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ucedane? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Ucedane have been included in the  summary of product characte ristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Ucedane 
Ucedane received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the  EU on 23 June 2017. 
Further information on Ucedane can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ucedane  
This overview was last updated in  08-2021.   
Ucedane (carglumic acid)  
EMA/450563/2021/2021  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
