12 November 2020 
EMA/524073/2020 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-31/1496 
Esmya EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/2041/0049 
Ulipristal Acetate Gedeon Richter EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/5017/0002 
CHMP scientific conclusions and PRAC Assessment report of the 
Review under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Table of contents 
1. Scientific conclusions and CHMP’s detailed explanation on the scientific 
grounds for the differences with the PRAC recommendation ....................... 3 
Divergent positions to the CHMP opinion ...................................................................... 13 
2. PRAC Assessment report ....................................................................... 17 
Divergent positions to the PRAC recommendation ......................................................... 35 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Scientific conclusions and CHMP’s detailed explanation on 
the scientific grounds for the differences with the PRAC 
recommendation  
Note  
Scientific conclusions as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions and CHMP detailed explanation of the scientific 
grounds for the differences with the PRAC recommendation 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg (Esmya) was first authorised in all EU/EEA countries on 23 February 2012 via a 
centralised procedure. Since 2019, generic ulipristal acetate 5mg medicines have been authorised via 
national procedures in several EU countries under various trade names. The post-marketing exposure 
of ulipristal acetate 5mg was estimated at 960,414 patients, cumulatively up to 29 February 2020. 
Ulipristal acetate was granted EU Marketing Authorisation initially for pre-operative treatment of 
moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age with a treatment 
course duration limited to 3 months due to the absence of long-term safety data for a period longer 
than 3 months. When long-term data became available, a second indication was approved in 2015 to 
allow repeated intermittent treatment courses in women who were not planned to undergo surgery.  
In May 2018, PRAC finalised a review of the benefit-risk balance of Esmya under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, initiated due to the reporting of three cases of serious liver injury 
leading to liver transplantation. During the review, an additional case was reported regarding an acute 
liver failure associated with the use of ulipristal acetate 5mg. As outcome of the review, and taking all 
data available into consideration, PRAC recommended a set of measures to minimise the risk of serious 
liver injury associated with ulipristal acetate 5mg including restrictions of the indications. The PRAC 
recommendations were endorsed by the CHMP in May 2018. Ulipristal acetate is currently approved in 
the EU/ EEA for the following indications: 
• 
• 
one treatment course of pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine 
fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. 
intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of 
reproductive age who are not eligible for surgery. 
In December 2019, EMA was informed of a new case of serious liver injury leading to liver 
transplantation following exposure to ulipristal acetate (5th case cumulatively).  
The seriousness of the case reported, the causal relationship between ulipristal acetate 5mg and acute 
liver failure, and its occurrence despite adherence to implemented risk minimisation measures were 
considered of major concern warranting an in-depth investigation of the impact on the benefit-risk 
balance of ulipristal acetate and further consideration of the effectiveness of the implemented risk 
minimisation measures. 
On 5 March 2020, the European Commission (EC) initiated a procedure under Article 31 of Directive 
2001/83/EC and requested the Agency to assess the above concerns and their impact on the benefit-
risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg and to give its opinion, on whether the marketing authorisation 
for ulipristal acetate 5mg should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked. The EC also requested 
the Agency to give its opinion as to whether provisional measures were necessary. 
On 12 March 2020, after review of the available data and in particular the 5th cumulative case of 
serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation, the PRAC recommended, as a temporary measure, 
the suspension of the marketing authorisations of ulipristal acetate 5 mg medicinal products until a 
definitive decision could be reached. 
The PRAC adopted a recommendation on 3 September 2020 to revoke the marketing authorisation of 
the concerned products which was considered by the CHMP, in accordance with Article 107k of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation by the PRAC 
The efficacy of ulipristal acetate 5mg in the treatment of symptoms of uterine fibroids has been 
demonstrated at the time of the initial marketing authorisation of Esmya. The clinical benefits of the 
pre-operative treatment could be considered limited as it is restricted to one treatment course prior to 
surgery, and there are other short-term treatment alternatives. The benefits of ulipristal acetate are 
considered largest in the intermittent treatment indication, i.e. for patients who are not eligible for 
surgery, since for those patients treatment alternatives are limited. Those who are not eligible for 
surgery may include women who, for various reasons, constitute a surgical risk, such as being obese, 
suffering from concurrent disease, being treated with certain medications or wanting to preserve 
fertility. Thus, ulipristal acetate 5mg may provide clinically relevant benefits to women who are not 
eligible for surgery, whose health and quality of life are affected by symptoms of uterine fibroids, in 
particular heavy bleeding. 
The risk of drug induced liver injury (DILI) in association with use of ulipristal acetate 5mg has been 
reviewed thoroughly in the previous Article 20 review of Esmya. As outcome of this review, `hepatic 
failure´ was adjudicated as an adverse drug reaction and DILI as an important identified risk for 
ulipristal acetate, both approved indications were restricted, and several risk minimisation measures 
were implemented. In addition, the MAH of Esmya was requested to perform several studies including 
on the mechanism of ulipristal acetate associated liver injury to further characterise this risk. However 
these studies have not contributed to further elucidate the mechanism of liver injury in association with 
ulipristal acetate 5mg and based on the available evidence, the hepatotoxicity associated with ulipristal 
acetate is considered to be of an idiosyncratic nature, making it difficult to identify susceptible patients 
who would be at an increased risk. 
Since the previous review, Gedeon Richter noted that the patient exposure to Esmya had registered a 
significant decrease (over 50%). Between 1 March 2018 and 29 February 2020, 476 new cases were 
received within the hepatic disorder SMQ (serious and non-serious events); of those, 97 cases were 
serious with 7 cases containing sufficient/partially sufficient information for causality assessment, 
including one case of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation (5th cumulative case). For this 
case, no confounding factors were identified, and other plausible aetiologies were ruled out; 
consequently, causality between ulipristal acetate and acute hepatitis leading to acute liver failure and 
liver transplantation was assessed as probable/highly probable, i.e. with a considerably higher degree 
of certainty. 
It was also noted that a progression in the development of hepatic failure leading to liver 
transplantation could not be prevented. This case therefore confirms that the recommendations for 
liver monitoring as included in the product information further to the previous referral were not able to 
prevent serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation in all patients.  
In the context of this review, the MAHs were asked to discuss the need and feasibility for any further 
risk minimisation measures to further mitigate the risk of serious liver toxicity, including changes to 
the product information, as well as proposals to monitor their effectiveness.  
To further minimise the risk, the MAH of the originator product Esmya has proposed to withdraw the 
indication for pre-operative treatment, indicating that, the pre-operative treatment could be replaced 
by the use of a GnRH agonist for short-term use. As pointed out by some experts consulted in the 
context of this review, the reduction of volume of fibroids by ulipristal acetate 5mg is not considered 
very high and thus the use of this product in the pre-operative setting does not profoundly impact the 
success of surgery. It was also noted by most experts that alternatives exist for this indication in the 
pre-operative stage. In view of the above and taking into account the risk of serious liver injury leading 
to liver transplantation with ulipristal acetate 5mg, the benefit-risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg in 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids is considered 
unfavourable for this indication and this indication should therefore be removed.  
To further minimise the risk, the MAH of Esmya also proposed a restriction of the target population for 
the intermittent indication to patients not eligible for hysterectomy. However, concerns were raised on 
the definition of this subset of patients. From the discussions in the expert group convened in the 
context of this review, it became apparent that the proposed description/definition of this subset of 
patients appears very broad (e.g. women with apparent medical contraindications for surgery, women 
having failed other treatment options, women wanting to preserve fertility, and women not willing to 
undergo surgery). Depending on the interpretation in clinical practice of “patients not willing to 
undergo surgery” or “patients not suitable for surgery/hysterectomy”, this indication may apply to 
many patients thus rendering the restriction of the indication to “not eligible to surgery/ hysterectomy” 
weak as a risk minimisation measure. The experts also recognised that data on the benefits of ulipristal 
acetate 5mg beyond symptom relief, i.e. avoiding surgery/hysterectomy in the longer term are 
currently lacking. 
The experts consulted during the review recommended that the benefits and risks of ulipristal acetate 
should be sufficiently communicated to the patients – most importantly the risk of liver injury – and 
stressed the importance of placing those benefits and risks in the context of the benefits and risks of 
all other available options. The PRAC considered the reflections from the experts that surgical 
treatment alternatives to treat moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids are not without risk. 
However, PRAC considered that making a fair comparison between surgical and pharmacological 
treatments was challenging as it would have to include different kinds of short- and long-term 
outcomes on health by either treatment, preferably based on comparative studies. Surgical treatment 
can lead to immediate cure but may convey, in rare cases, a risk of short- or long-term sequelae, 
whereas pharmacological treatments mainly result in alleviation of symptoms but, in rare instances, 
may lead to serious adverse events. Gedeon Richter, the MAH of Esmya, also acknowledged that the 
feasibility of ensuring that all patients have equal opportunity to make an adequately informed 
decision, including appropriate information sharing by the treating physician regarding the risks of 
treatment options and its relevant consequences, should be considered, and that based on the 
available tools and communication channels, significant limitations could be identified. 
PRAC was of the view that the proposed changes to the indications (i.e., removal of the preoperative 
indication and restriction of the intermittent indication to not eligible to surgery/hysterectomy) may 
further reduce the number of patients exposed to ulipristal acetate 5mg. However, as acknowledged by 
the MAH of Esmya, the patient group for whom the therapy is suitable cannot be scientifically well 
defined, which would make the decision of treatment with ulipristal acetate 5mg rather subjective. In 
addition, in view of the idiosyncratic nature of the risk and the difficulty to predict its occurrence (e.g., 
by identifying relevant risk factors), the PRAC considered that the risk of severe liver injury would not 
be sufficiently reduced in those who would still be exposed. The experts consulted also could not 
identify a population where the risk could be predicted and therefore prevented. PRAC also noted the 
feasibility limitations of ensuring adequate information is made available to all patients for an informed 
decision and was of the view that no further risk minimisation measures could be implemented that 
would prevent the risk of severe liver injury. In view of the above, PRAC concluded that the benefit-
risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg was unfavourable as intermittent treatment of moderate to 
severe symptoms of uterine fibroids. 
In view of the seriousness and idiosyncratic nature of the risk of serious liver injury, the occurrence of 
hepatic failure despite the implemented risk minimisation measures, that neither further risk measures 
to prevent and reduce the risk was identified nor a sub-population where the benefit risk balance of 
ulipristal 5mg could be positive, the PRAC concluded that this risk outweighs the benefits of ulipristal 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
 
acetate 5mg in all its indications. As no condition, if fulfilled in the future, would demonstrate a positive 
benefit-risk balance for these products, the PRAC recommended the revocation of the marketing 
authorisations for ulipristal acetate 5mg medicinal products. 
Grounds for PRAC recommendation  
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from the 
evaluation of data from pharmacovigilance activities, for ulipristal acetate 5mg medicinal products; 
The PRAC reviewed the information available to the Committee on ulipristal acetate 5mg and the 
risk of serious liver injury, including the data provided by the marketing authorisation holders of 
ulipristal acetate 5mg in writing and in oral explanations and the outcome of the consultation with 
the ad-hoc expert group convened in the context of this procedure;  
The PRAC reviewed all cases of serious liver injury reported among women treated with ulipristal 
acetate 5 mg for the treatment of symptoms of uterine fibroids, including a new case of serious 
liver injury leading to liver transplantation (the 5th case cumulatively) reported although the risk 
minimisation measures agreed as outcome of the previous Article 20 referral were followed. The 
PRAC concluded that the causal association of ulipristal acetate 5mg with serious liver injury was 
probable/highly probable and noted that a progression in the development of hepatic failure 
leading to liver transplantation could not be prevented; 
• 
The PRAC discussed further risk minimisation proposals and could not identify any additional 
measures that would ensure effective minimisation of the risk to an acceptable level. In view of the 
seriousness and idiosyncratic nature of the risk, the PRAC concluded that this risk outweighs the 
benefits of ulipristal acetate 5mg in the treatment of the symptoms of uterine fibroids. No sub-
group of patients in which the benefits of ulipristal acetate 5mg would outweigh the risks could be 
identified; 
• 
Furthermore, the PRAC could not identify any condition, the fulfilment of which would demonstrate 
a positive benefit-risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg medicinal products. 
The Committee, as a consequence, considers that the benefit-risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg 
medicinal products for the treatment of symptoms of uterine fibroids is not favourable and 
recommends, pursuant to Article 116 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the revocation of the marketing 
authorisations of all ulipristal acetate 5mg medicinal products. 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP detailed explanation of the scientific grounds for the differences from the PRAC 
recommendation  
The CHMP considered the PRAC recommendation and the additional information provided by the MAHs 
as well as the outcome of the consultation with the ad-hoc expert group convened in the context of 
this procedure. Based on these data, the CHMP did not agree with the PRAC overall conclusions and 
grounds for recommendation. 
Points of divergence with the PRAC recommendation and scientific rationale of the CHMP 
position 
Safety aspects 
The risk of serious liver injury with ulipristal acetate 5mg was assessed in the context of the Article 20 
review of Esmya in 2018 and it was concluded by the PRAC and the CHMP that the product may carry a 
risk for serious liver injury. While uncertainties around causality remained, PRAC and CHMP recognised 
the very serious outcome of the reported cases of liver injury and a set of risk minimisation measures 
was implemented for Esmya, including a restriction of indication, the introduction of a contra-indication 
in patients with underlying liver disorder, a recommendation to perform liver function tests prior and 
during treatment, and implementation of educational material, including a patient card in each pack of 
ulipristal acetate 5mg to adequality inform patients about the possible risks of liver injury. With the 
risk being clearly communicated to patients and healthcare professionals, an expectation was that if 
more cases of severe liver injury leading to liver injury had occurred, they would be reported then. 
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures taken in 2018 indicated that the 
limitation of the population by restricting the two indications had led to a large decrease in number of 
patients treated to around 25-30% of the proportion of patients prior to the Article 20 referral in 2018. 
The CHMP noted that the reporting rate of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation of 
0.52/100,000 based on 4/765.000 patients exposed to ulipristal acetate 5mg prior to the previous 
Article 20 procedure and 0.51/100,000 based on 1/194.614 patients exposed to ulipristal acetate 5mg 
since the previous Article 20 procedure, remained the same. It was also noted that these incidences 
are in line a conservative background incidence of death/liver transplantation of 0.55 cases per 
100,000 inhabitants as described by Ibañez in 20021. 
The CHMP also noted that the results in a limited number of patients with increased liver function test 
results during use of ulipristal acetate 5 mg showed improvement or normalisation of the increased 
liver function test (LFT) values after discontinuation of ulipristal. Although these data are limited, they 
suggest that the performance of liver function tests is useful in the prevention of progression of liver 
damage. CHMP however acknowledged that the 5th case of serious liver injury reported in December 
2019 had a probable/highly probable causal relationship with ulipristal acetate 5mg and that this case 
had occurred despite the risk minimisation measures in place and that a progression in the 
development of hepatic failure leading to liver transplantation could not be prevented. 
Efficacy aspects 
• 
Pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids 
At the end of one treatment course (3 months), 73.4% and 75.3%, respectively, of patients in two 
different phase III studies reported amenorrhoea and the median fibroid volume had been reduced 
compared to baseline by 21.2% and 35.6%, respectively.  
1 Ibáñez L, Pérez E, Vidal X, Laporte JR; Grup d'Estudi Multicènteric d'Hepatotoxicitat Aguda de Barcelona (GEMHAB). Prospective surveillance 
of acute serious liver disease unrelated to infectious, obstructive, or metabolic diseases: epidemiological and clinical features, and exposure to 
drugs. J Hepatol. 2002 Nov;37(5):592-600. 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The reduction in myoma size, which may facilitate surgery, as well as reduction in blood loss and 
anaemia, which will improve the general health of the patient, are considered clinically relevant. 
However, the clinical benefits of the pre-operative treatment are considered limited, and there is 
another short-term pre-operative treatment alternative, i.e. a GnRH-agonist.  
• 
Intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids 
At the end of the fourth treatment course, corresponding to approximately two years of treatment (4 
courses of 3 months with re-treatment courses starting in the first week of the second menstruation 
following the previous treatment course completion), 69.6% of patients reported amenorrhoea and the 
median reduction of myoma volume from baseline was 71.8% in one phase III study. 
The benefits of ulipristal acetate 5 mg are considered largest in the intermittent treatment indication, 
i.e., for patients whose health and quality of life are affected by symptoms of uterine fibroids, in 
particular heavy bleeding, but who are not suitable for surgery, since for those patients in need of 
longer treatment, there are no other obvious pharmacological treatment alternatives. Those who are 
not suitable for surgery may include women who, for various reasons, present a surgical risk, such as 
being obese, women at increased risk of venous thrombosis, with a concomitant disease, or receiving 
concomitant medications. Surgery may also not be suitable for women wanting to preserve the 
possibility to become pregnant.  
Benefit-risk balance 
The CHMP noted that the 5th case of serious liver injury reported with ulipristal acetate 5mg has a 
probable/highly probable causal relationship with ulipristal acetate 5mg and acknowledged that this 
case had occurred despite the risk minimisation measures in place and that a progression in the 
development of hepatic failure leading to liver transplantation could not be prevented. However, the 
CHMP noted that the incidence of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation with ulipristal 
acetate 5mg is in line with a conservative background incidence of death/liver transplantation. 
The CHMP further considered the proposal from the MAH of Esmya to withdraw the pre-operative 
treatment indication to limit the exposure to ulipristal acetate and thus further minimising the risk. The 
indication of one treatment course of pre-operative treatment reflects a situation where surgery is 
planned, however reductions in myoma size as well as reductions in blood loss and anaemia are 
considered of clinical significance. However the CHMP noted that some experts consulted in the context 
of this review had pointed out that the reduction of volume of fibroids by ulipristal acetate 5mg was 
not considered very high and thus the use of this product in the pre-operative setting did not 
profoundly impact the success of surgery. The CHMP also noted that the experts had highlighted that 
alternatives exist for this indication in the pre-operative stage. In view of the above and taking into 
account the risk of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation with ulipristal acetate 5mg, the 
CHMP agreed with the PRAC that ulipristal acetate 5mg should no longer be used as pre-operative 
treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids and therefore this indication should be 
removed.  
The CHMP noted that the PRAC was also of the view that the benefit-risk of ulipristal acetate 5mg was 
negative as intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids. The CHMP was 
however of the opinion that the benefits of ulipristal acetate 5mg in the intermittent treatment 
indication remain relevant for a subgroup of women with moderate to severe symptoms of uterine 
fibroids when uterine fibroid embolisation and/or surgical treatment options are not suitable or have 
failed, since for those patients there are only very limited treatment alternatives.  
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The experts consulted during an ad hoc expert group (AHEG) meeting agreed that when considering 
ulipristal acetate 5mg as an intermittent treatment it is very important to take into account the risks 
related to the alternative options (hysterectomy and the less invasive alternative surgical treatments, 
such as abdominal myomectomy or intraoperative conversion to hysterectomy). An important aspect 
to take into account is that each surgical option has its own risk, e.g. the mortality rate after 
hysterectomy ranges from 1 in 500 to 1 in 3000; while major complications such as bleeding, intestinal 
perforation are at the frequency of 1 in 100. Recurrence of fibroids after myomectomy is common and 
additional treatment may be required (American college of Obstetricians and gynaecologists 2008). 
Abdominal myomectomy also confers substantial risks with respect to fertility, including a 3 to 4% risk 
of intraoperative conversion to hysterectomy and frequent development of postoperative intra-uterine 
adhesions. The rates of major complications after embolisation are similar to those after surgery, but 
embolisation is associated with a higher risk of minor complications and of the need for additional 
surgical intervention (typically hysterectomy)2.  
The expert group indicated that it is also important to consider the patient population that does not 
want to undergo surgery, such as younger patients for whom denying hysterectomy would preserve 
the possibility to become pregnant. In this context, most experts consulted in the context of the ad-
hoc expert group meeting stressed the need of having ulipristal acetate 5mg as an option for 
intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids.  
It was also noted that the experts had stressed the importance of a detailed analysis of the risks and 
careful review of the individual case before any decision on the treatment is made and that counselling 
of patients should be the centre of decision-making. The patient representative present at the meeting 
shared this opinion, stressing the importance of choice and informed decision of the individuals taking 
into account all available options. 
The CHMP agreed that the decision on whether surgery is the best option, including hysterectomy, 
should be at the level of the treating physician and the patient in a setting of informed decision 
making. CHMP was also of the view that, provided that the benefits and risks of ulipristal acetate 5mg 
and other avaialble treatment options are sufficiently communicated to both the healthcare 
professionals and the patients, ulipristal acetate 5mg should remain available for intermittent 
treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids for adult women who have not reached 
menopause when uterine fibroid embolisation and/or surgical treatment options are not suitable or 
have failed. 
To further minimise the risks and enhance the communication about the risks associated with ulipristal 
acetate 5mg, the CHMP recommended that the product information should be updated to reflect that in 
some cases of liver injury, liver transplantation was required. The CHMP also recommended an update 
of the educational material for both prescribers and patients to increase awareness about the risk of 
severe liver injury and highlight the need to counsel patients on the risk and benefits of available 
treatment options to allow them to take an informed decision. 
Summary of the new recommended measures 
Amendments to the product information 
The CHMP considered that amendments to sections 4.1, 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC were necessary to 
minimise the risk of severe liver injury associated with the use of ulipristal acetate 5mg.  
The indication was restricted to intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine 
fibroids in adult women who have not reached menopause, when uterine fibroid embolisation and/or 
2 Stewart E. Uterine fibroids. N Engl J Med 2015; 372:1646-1655 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 10/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
surgical treatment options are not suitable or have failed. The indication of one treatment course of 
pre-operative treatment was deleted as ulipristal acetate 5mg should no longer be used in this 
indication. 
In addition, the warnings and precautions for use section of the product information (section 4.4) as 
well as the description of hepatic failure adverse reaction in section 4.8 were amended to reflect the 
fact that some cases of liver injury and hepatic failure reported with ulipristal acetate 5mg required 
liver transplantation. 
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The MAHs should operate a risk management system described in a revised risk management plan 
with the following amendments.  
The CHMP considered that the existing Physician’s guide to prescribing should be amended to reflect 
the revised indication, the fact that some cases of liver injury and hepatic failure reported with 
ulipristal acetate 5mg required liver transplantation and highlight that the frequency of hepatic failure 
and patient risk factors are unknown. Prescribers should also advise patients on the risk and benefits 
of available treatment options to allow them to take an informed decision. 
It was also considered that the existing patient alert card should be amended to clarify that in a small 
number of cases liver transplantation was necessary. 
Direct Healthcare Professional Communication and Communication plan 
The Committee adopted the wording of a direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC), to 
inform healthcare professionals (HCPs) of the outcome of this review, including the restricted indication 
for ulipristal acetate, provide background information on the risk of severe liver injury, and advise 
HCPs to inform patients about possible signs and symptoms of liver injury as well as about the risk and 
benefits of all available alternatives to allow them to take an informed decision. The Committee also 
agreed on a communication plan. 
Grounds for CHMP opinion and for the differences with the PRAC recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The CHMP took into account the PRAC recommendation on ulipristal acetate 5mg and all the data 
provided by the marketing authorisation holders of ulipristal acetate 5mg;  
The CHMP noted that the causal association of ulipristal acetate 5mg with the 5th case of serious 
liver injury leading to liver transplantation has been assessed as probable/highly probable, and 
acknowledged that a progression in the development of hepatic failure leading to liver 
transplantation could not be prevented although the risk minimisation measures agreed as 
outcome of the previous Article 20 referral were followed; 
The CHMP agreed that the risk of serious liver injury outweighs the benefits of ulipristal acetate as 
one treatment course of pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine 
fibroids in adult women of reproductive age and this indication should therefore be removed in 
agreement with the MAHs; 
The CHMP was however of the view that the benefit-risk of ulipristal acetate in the intermittent 
treatment indication is only considered to remain favourable in a subgroup of women with 
moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids who have not reached menopause and for who 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
uterine fibroid embolisation and/or surgical treatment options are not suitable or have failed, 
subject to the risks being sufficiently communicated to patients and prescribers through wording in 
the product information and educational material to ensure well-informed treatment decisions in 
addition to the risk minimisation measures already implemented as outcome of the previous 
review. 
The CHMP, as a consequence, considers that the benefit-risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg 
medicinal products remains favourable subject to the amendments to the product information and 
additional risk minimisation measures described above. 
Therefore, the CHMP recommends the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisations for 
ulipristal acetate 5mg medicinal products. 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 12/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divergent positions to the CHMP opinion 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 13/14 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-31/1496 
Esmya EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/2041/0049 
Ulipristal Acetate Gedeon Richter EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/5017/0002 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg 
Divergent statement 
The undersigned CHMP members consider that the benefit-risk balance for ulipristal acetate 5mg is 
negative for the following reasons:  
• 
• 
Thus far five cases of serious liver injury requiring liver transplantation have been reported 
among women treated with ulipristal acetate 5 mg for symptoms of uterine fibroids since 
approval in 2012; despite an obvious decline in exposure following the Art 20 referral, a 5th 
case occurred; 
For the most recently reported case, the risk minimisation measures in sections 4.3 and 4.4 of 
the SmPC, implemented following the Article 20 procedure, were adhered to; thus, the 
recommendations for liver monitoring included in the SmPC are not sufficient to prevent 
serious liver injury in all patients; 
•  As the mechanism behind the risk of DILI associated with the use of ulipristal acetate is 
unknown, the population “at risk” cannot be further identified; 
•  Serious liver injury may be life-threatening and when liver transplantation is required, this may 
result in long-term sequelae and require life-long treatment with immunosuppressants; 
•  Although symptomatic and affecting the quality of life, moderate to severe symptoms of 
uterine fibroids are not considered a life-threatening condition; 
• 
For women who are not willing to or eligible for surgery/ hysterectomy other short-term 
medical treatment options are available.  
CHMP Members expressing a divergent opinion: 
•  Sinan B. Sarac 
•  Alexandre Moreau 
•  Christophe Focke 
• 
• 
• 
Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
Jayne Crowe 
Ewa Balkowiec Iskra 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 14/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Kristina Dunder 
•  Martina Weise 
•  Bruno Sepodes 
•  Konstantinos Markopoulos 
•  Armando Genazzani 
• 
Ilko Getov 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 15/16 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-31/1496 
Esmya EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/2041/0049 
Ulipristal Acetate Gedeon Richter EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/5017/0002 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg 
Divergent statement 
The undersigned CHMP member considers that the benefit-risk balance for ulipristal acetate 5mg is 
negative for the following reasons:  
• 
• 
Thus far five cases of serious liver injury requiring liver transplantation have been reported 
among women treated with ulipristal acetate 5 mg for symptoms of uterine fibroids since 
approval in 2012; despite an obvious decline in exposure following the Art 20 referral, a 5th 
case occurred; 
For the most recently reported case, the risk minimisation measures in sections 4.3 and 4.4 of 
the SmPC, implemented following the Article 20 procedure, were adhered to; thus, the 
recommendations for liver monitoring included in the SmPC are not sufficient to prevent 
serious liver injury in all patients; 
•  As the mechanism behind the risk of DILI associated with the use of ulipristal acetate is 
unknown, the population “at risk” cannot be further identified; 
•  Serious liver injury may be life-threatening and when liver transplantation is required, this may 
result in long-term sequelae and require life-long treatment with immunosuppressants; 
•  Although symptomatic and affecting the quality of life, moderate to severe symptoms of 
uterine fibroids are not considered a life-threatening condition; 
• 
For women who are not willing to or eligible for surgery/ hysterectomy other short-term 
medical treatment options are available.  
CHMP Member expressing a divergent opinion: 
•  Bjorg Bolstad 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRAC Assessment report 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted, to be read in conjunction 
with subsequent CHMP scientific conclusions. 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 17/18 
 
 
 
 
 
03 September 2020 
EMA/524073/2020 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report 
Referral under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Invented name(s): Esmya 
  Ulipristal Acetate Gedeon Richter 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-31/1496 
Esmya EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/2041/0049 
Ulipristal Acetate Gedeon Richter EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/5017/0002 
Note: 
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Scientific conclusions and CHMP’s detailed explanation on the scientific 
grounds for the differences with the PRAC recommendation ....................... 3 
Grounds for PRAC recommendation ...................... Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Divergent positions to the CHMP opinion ...................................................................... 13 
2. PRAC Assessment report ....................................................................... 17 
Table of contents ....................................................................................... 19 
3. Information on the procedure ............................................................... 20 
4. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 21 
4.1. Introduction....................................................................................................... 21 
4.1.1. Safety aspects ................................................................................................ 22 
4.1.2. Efficacy aspects ............................................................................................... 27 
5. Expert consultation ............................................................................... 30 
6. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 31 
7. Grounds for the recommendation .......................................................... 33 
Divergent positions to the PRAC recommendation ......................................................... 35 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 19/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Information on the procedure 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg (Esmya) was first authorised in all EU/EEA countries on 23 February 2012 via a 
centralised procedure. Since 2019, generic ulipristal acetate 5mg medicines have been authorised via 
national procedures in several EU countries under various trade names. The post-marketing exposure 
of ulipristal acetate 5mg was estimated at 960,414 patients, cumulatively up to 29 February 2020. 
Ulipristal acetate was granted EU Marketing Authorisation initially for pre-operative treatment of 
moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age with a treatment 
course duration limited to 3 months due to the absence of long-term safety data for a period longer 
than 3 months. When long-term data became available, a second indication was approved in 2015 to 
allow repeated intermittent treatment courses in women who were not planned to undergo surgery.  
In May 2018, PRAC finalised a review of the benefit-risk balance of Esmya under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 initiated due to the reporting of three cases of serious liver injury leading 
to liver transplantation. During the review, an additional case was reported regarding an acute liver 
failure associated with the use of ulipristal acetate 5mg. As outcome of the review, and taking all data 
available into consideration, PRAC recommended a set of measures to minimise the risk of serious liver 
injury associated with ulipristal acetate 5mg including restrictions of the indications. The PRAC 
recommendations were endorsed by the CHMP in May 2018. Ulipristal acetate is currently approved in 
the EU/ EEA for the following indications: 
•  one treatment course of pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine 
fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. 
• 
intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of 
reproductive age who are not eligible for surgery. 
In December 2019, EMA was informed of a new case of serious liver injury leading to liver 
transplantation following exposure to ulipristal acetate (5th case cumulatively).  
The seriousness of the case reported, the causal relationship between ulipristal acetate 5mg and acute 
liver failure, and its occurrence despite adherence to implemented risk minimisation measures were 
considered of major concern warranting an in-depth investigation of the impact on the benefit-risk 
balance of ulipristal acetate and further consideration of the effectiveness of the implemented risk 
minimisation measures. 
On 5 March 2020, the European Commission (EC) initiated a procedure under Article 31 of Directive 
2001/83/EC and requested the Agency to assess the above concerns and their impact on the benefit-
risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg and to give its opinion, on whether the marketing authorisation 
for ulipristal acetate 5mg should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked. The EC also requested 
the Agency to give its opinion as to whether provisional measures were necessary. 
The scope of this procedure is limited to ulipristal acetate 5mg indicated as treatment of symptoms of 
uterine fibroids. 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 20/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Scientific discussion  
4.1.  Introduction 
Uterine fibroids (uterine leiomyoma) are benign, monoclonal, hormone-sensitive, smooth muscle 
tumours of the uterus in premenopausal women. They are the most common tumour of the female 
reproductive tract in pre-menopausal women and have been reported to affect 20-40% of women 
during their reproductive years. Uterine fibroids are often asymptomatic, but when symptomatic, the 
primary symptoms are fibroid-related bleeding and subsequent anaemia, and abdominal pressure and 
abdominal pain, increased urinary frequency and infertility related to the volume and location of the 
tumour. Heavy menstrual blood loss is one of the most frequently disabling symptoms of uterine 
fibroids. 
Uterine fibroids are commonly treated surgically, and symptomatic uterine fibroids are the main reason 
for hysterectomy. Other less invasive treatment procedures include myomectomy (which may preserve 
fertility), uterine artery embolisation and, if the dominant symptom is bleeding, endometrial ablation. 
Surgery may not be a suitable option for all patients, e.g. for medical or personal reasons or if the 
woman is peri-menopausal and would rather wait for the symptoms of uterine fibroids decrease as a 
result of entering menopause.  
In addition to ulipristal acetate 5mg, symptomatic fibroids may be treated with gonadotropin releasing 
hormone (GnRH) agonists which are effective in reducing fibroid-related bleeding, reducing abdominal 
symptoms and reducing fibroid and uterine volume. However, their use is limited to 3-6 months 
duration as suppression of oestrogen to castration levels leads to loss of bone mineral density and 
results in menopausal symptoms including hot flushes.  
In May 2018, PRAC/CHMP finalised a review of the benefit-risk balance of Esmya under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 initiated following the reporting of cases of serious liver injury leading to 
liver transplantation. The review concluded that ulipristal acetate 5mg may carry a risk for serious liver 
injury. While uncertainties around causality remained, PRAC recognised the very serious outcome of 
the reported cases of liver injury and taking all data available into consideration, recommended the 
following measures to minimise the risk of serious liver injury associated with ulipristal acetate 5mg3: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The indications to be restricted to only one treatment course of pre-operative treatment and 
for intermittent treatment in adult women of reproductive age who are not eligible for surgery;  
A contraindication in patients with underlying hepatic disorder;  
Liver tests to be conducted before, during and after the first two treatment courses;  
Esmya to be discontinued in case of elevated transaminases or symptoms compatible with liver 
injury.  
In December 2019, a new case of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation following exposure 
to ulipristal acetate (5th case cumulatively) was reported. Based on the available information at the 
time, the causal association with the use of ulipristal acetate 5mg was assessed as probable and it was 
noted that although the risk minimisation measures implemented previously were followed, a 
progression in the development of hepatic failure leading to liver transplantation could not be 
prevented. 
Taking into account the seriousness of the reported adverse event, the fact that this case occurred 
despite adherence to the risk minimisation measures in place, and that the approved indication 
3 More information is available in the published assessment report on the Article 20 review for Esmya 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 21/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concerns symptomatic treatment, PRAC concluded in March 2020 (i.e. at the start of this Article 31 
referral procedure) that this new case had an impact on the benefit-risk balance of ulipristal acetate 
5mg and that temporary measures were needed to protect public health during the review. As no 
measures that would sufficiently mitigate the risk of serious liver disorders in all patients treated with 
ulipristal acetate 5mg could be identified at that stage, the PRAC recommended on 12 March 2020 that 
the use of ulipristal acetate 5mg should be temporarily suspended while a thorough assessment of all 
available data related to the benefit-risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg and effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures be performed.4  
4.1.1.  Safety aspects  
4.1.1.1.  Acute liver failure and drug-induced liver injury with ulipristal acetate 5mg 
Firm conclusions on the background incidence of drug-induced liver injury (DILI) and acute liver failure 
(ALF) in the general population in the EU cannot be drawn. This is due to the differences between the 
studies investigating the incidence of ALF secondary to DILI, among others, the diagnostic criteria 
applied, the severity of the disease, in- or exclusion of cases with acetaminophen, the type of patients 
collected, the variety in age groups and the fact that such studies were performed in only a limited 
number of countries in the EU. Generally, the outcome of an acute hepatic failure is unpredictable and 
is associated with high morbidity and mortality although overall survival has improved in past decades 
through advancements in intensive care management and emergency liver transplantation. 
The risk of serious liver injury with ulipristal acetate 5mg was assessed in the context of the Article 20 
review of Esmya and it was concluded by the PRAC that the product may carry a risk for serious liver 
injury. While uncertainties around causality remained, PRAC recognised the very serious outcome of 
the reported cases of liver injury. 
Prior to the Article 20 review of Esmya (cut-off date: 28 February 2018), 105 cases had been reported 
within the Hepatic disorder SMQ, including 33 cases with serious liver disorder SMQ. Among 33 cases, 
16 cases were reported with sufficient/partially sufficient information for causality assessment, 
including 4 cases of acute liver failure leading to liver transplantation. For these 4 cases, reviewed 
during the Article 20 procedure5, the causal association between Esmya and serious liver injury was 
assessed as possible or probable with remaining uncertainty regarding pre-existing liver disease in 2 
cases, the role of Human Herpesvirus 6 infection in the third case and a possible role of hepatitis E 
infection in the fourth case. Generally, the peak time to onset of liver injury was around 140 days and 
the vast majority of the reported potential drug induced liver injuries occurred between 1 and 8 
months (2 treatment cycles including 2 months pause).  
As outcome of the Article 20 review of Esmya in 2018, the PRAC requested the MAH to perform in-vitro 
mechanistic studies to further explore potential links between ulipristal and drug induced liver injuries. 
A series of in vitro experiments in HepG2 cells were conducted to determine the potential of ulipristal 
(UPA) or its metabolite PGL4002 to elicit hepatotoxicity via known direct toxicological mechanisms, 
including oxidative stress/reactive metabolites, mitochondrial dysfunction, and disruption of bile salt 
homeostasis. The PRAC also requested the MAH to perform an in-vitro study on inhibition of 
transporter proteins.  
None of these studies however could suggest that ulipristal acetate might inhibit efflux transporters 
BSEP, MRP2, MRP3, MRP4, cause mitochondrial dysfunction or oxidative stress or cytotoxicity at 
clinically relevant concentrations. These data, that were submitted and reviewed by the PRAC prior to 
4 More information is available in the published assessment report on provisional measures 
5 More information is available in the published assessment report on the Article 20 review for Esmya 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 22/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the initiation of this review, did therefore not add to the current knowledge of ulipristal involvement in 
the establishment of liver injury. Based on the current knowledge, the hepatotoxicity associated with 
ulipristal acetate is considered to be of idiosyncratic nature, which makes it difficult to identify 
susceptible patients who would be at an increased risk. 
From 1 March 2018 (the day after the cut-off date of the Article 20 review) until 29 February 2020, 
476 new cases were received within the hepatic disorder SMQ (serious and non-serious events); of 
those, 97 cases were serious with 7 cases containing sufficient/partially sufficient information for 
causality assessment, including one case of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation (5th 
cumulative case). These cases were assessed in the context of this referral procedure and are 
presented below.  
Of note, the reported patient exposure was estimated to be approximately 200,000 to 275,000 
patient-years prior to the Article 20 review conducted by the PRAC in 2018 and to approximately 
51,000 to 70,000 patient-years after the review and up to February 2020.   
5th Serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation 
The 5th reported case of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation concerned a 54-year-old 
woman with no relevant medical history suggestive of underlying liver disorder, including no alcohol or 
drug abuse, did not travel; family history mentioned 2 sisters with unspecified hepatitis. The patient 
was started on Esmya as pre-operative treatment for a large myoma with urinary retention due to 
compression. Transaminase levels were normal before start of Esmya treatment and after 1 month of 
treatment. Increased levels of ALT (9.7xULN) and AST (5.7xULN) were reported 58 days after the first 
dose of Esmya and Esmya was discontinued. At 1 month following discontinuation of Esmya, 
transaminase levels continued to increase. At approximately 6 weeks after Esmya discontinuation, the 
patient reported nausea, vomiting and jaundice and was hospitalised. The patient was diagnosed with 
acute hepatitis, requiring liver transplantation at 59 days after last dose of Esmya.  
The concomitant medication taken during Esmya treatment (flutrimazole cream, starting 7 days after 
first dose of Esmya) is not considered confounding. Following Esmya discontinuation, Depurpatic 
(vitamins, food supplement: black radish, desmodium, milk thistle, green anise and choline) was taken 
for 2 days, starting 2 days prior to hospitalisation. Reportedly, no other medications were taken in the 
period between Esmya discontinuation and hospitalisation.  
Two or three days after hospitalisation (i.e., ~ 6 weeks after Esmya discontinuation), laboratory tests 
were performed. Autoimmune hepatitis was ruled out. Serology for viral hepatitis was as follows: 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) IgM and IgG positive, but negative for DNA-CMV, HAV (IgM neg, IgG pos), HBV 
(HBsAg neg, anti-HBc IgM neg), HEV (IgM neg), EBV (IgM neg, IgG pos), HIV neg. The role of CMV 
infection, either as de novo infection or reactivation, was not likely based on the absence of symptoms 
of CMV infection and no convincing evidence based on CMV serology and pathological findings in the 
explanted liver. Thus, acute hepatitis of viral aetiology was considered unlikely.  
It was noted that the patient and the prescriber were compliant with the risk minimisation measures as 
per product information, however liver test values further deteriorated even when ulipristal acetate 
5mg was discontinued and liver transplantation could not be prevented.  
This case of serious liver injury suggests a causal association between ulipristal acetate and acute 
hepatitis leading to acute liver failure and liver transplantation with a high degree of certainty 
(probable/highly probable). 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 23/24 
 
 
 
 
 
Other serious cases of liver injury reported between 1 March 2018 and 29 February 2020 
Amongst the other 6 cases with serious liver disorder SMQ containing sufficient/partially sufficient 
information for causality assessment, the first 2 cases dated 2017, before liver monitoring was 
introduced as risk minimisation measures. However, as they were reported in 2018 after the 
finalisation of the Article 20 review of Esmya and the cut-off date of 28 February 2018, they were 
considered as part of this referral procedure. 
The first case concerned a 48-49-year-old female who was treated for 81-82 days with Esmya (5 mg 
per day) for the indication uterine myomatosis, hypermenorrhoea and dysmenorrhoea. Symptoms of 
nausea and right upper quadrant abdominal pain were reported before treatment with Esmya was 
started. No liver function tests prior and during treatment are available. Although no specific dates and 
lab values were described, increased ALT, AST and GGT levels presumably after Esmya treatment were 
described. Liver lab values were normal about 2 months after first specified lab values were found and 
about 5 months after discontinuation of Esmya. Ultrasound results showed a homogenous normal sized 
liver. The patient had no history of hereditary liver disease, alcohol use, and viral infections and auto-
immune hepatitis was excluded. Concomitant medications were Decristol, pravastatin, iodine and 
magnesium. The SmPC of pravastatin describes that serious liver injury cases are reported post-
marketing. The causality of this case is difficult to assess, because laboratory values are missing, 
concomitant pravastatin use may have confounded the case and it cannot be excluded that liver 
damage was present before start of treatment with Esmya. However, it cannot be excluded that liver 
injury was caused by Esmya. Liver injury is therefore possibly related to treatment with Esmya.  
The second case concerned a 43-year-old female who was treated with Esmya (5 mg per day) for 
about 8 months for the indication uterine fibroid. Liver test values were slightly increased (AST 
1.5xULN and AST 1.2xULN). Acute hepatitis was diagnosed, but method of diagnosis was unknown. 
Two months later hepatic angioma was found with MRI, no liver laboratory values were reported, and 
Esmya was discontinued. About 1.5 months after discontinuation of Esmya, liver lab values were 
normal. No concomitant medication and no alcohol use were reported. Viral hepatitis and auto-immune 
hepatitis were excluded. Hepatic angioma was diagnosed after discontinuation of Esmya. Hepatic 
angioma could be an alternative cause for slightly increased liver test values. Based on the information 
provided (slightly increased lab values and unknown method of diagnosis of hepatitis), it is not clear 
whether this patient had a drug-induced liver disease. As the ALT/AST were below 2xULN, indicating 
that there are no signs of DILI. Therefore, this case seems to be unlikely related to Esmya. 
The remaining 4 cases with serious liver disorder SMQ all occurred after finalisation of the Article 20 
review of Esmya. 
The third case concerned a 45-year-old female who was treated with Esmya (5 mg per day) for about 
2 years for the indication uterine myoma and bleeding menstrual heavy. The patient discontinued 
Esmya because of increased liver lab values (ALT: 5.2xULN, AST 3.8xULN) presumably during 
treatment with the 6th treatment course of Esmya. The patient recovered about 2 months after 
discontinuation of Esmya. Reported concomitant medications were tranexamic acid and levothyroxine. 
Positive ANA test suggestive for autoimmune hepatitis; however, no steroid treatment started. The 
case lacks information on Hepatitis E test and alcohol use. In conclusion, a causal role for Esmya is 
possible, but with remaining uncertainty regarding viral or autoimmune hepatitis.  
The fourth case concerned a 52-year-old female who was treated with Esmya (5 mg per day) for the 
indication excessive menstrual bleeding. Diagnosis of uterine myoma/fibroid was not reported. Viral 
hepatitis and auto-immune hepatitis were not excluded. Alcohol use was not reported. Not all 
alternative causes were therefore excluded. The patient started several other drugs and no indications 
and no discontinuations of these drugs are described, while some drugs are started more than once. 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 24/25 
 
 
 
 
 
Since most exact start and stop dates of Esmya are not exactly known, it is not known whether Esmya 
was started before or after a concomitant drug was started. Hepatic adverse events are listed in the 
SmPC of the following concomitant treatments: rivaroxaban (rare to common), fluconazole (rare to 
common), etoricoxib (rare to common), amoxicillin (very rare), losartan (rare to unknown), 
hydroxyzine (unknown) and papaverine (not known). It is possible that the case is confounded by one 
or more of these concomitant drugs. It may be possible that liver values increased after start of Esmya 
and decreased after discontinuation of Esmya, but this is uncertain because of the unspecific start and 
stop dates of Esmya. It is therefore difficult to conclude that this case has a positive dechallenge and 
positive rechallenge for Esmya. The case is difficult to assess, because viral hepatitis, auto-immune 
hepatitis and alcohol use were not excluded as alternative causes, start and stop dates of Esmya are 
not exactly known, the case may be confounded by one or more concomitant drugs and positive 
dechallenge and positive rechallenge for Esmya are not certain. However, it cannot be excluded that 
liver injury was caused by Esmya. Liver injury is therefore possibly related to treatment with Esmya. 
The fifth case concerned a 30-year-old female who was treated for 2 treatment courses of 3 months 
with Esmya (5 mg per day) for the indication uterine fibroid and menometrorrhagia. The patient had 
no history of alcohol intoxication/abuse. Liver values were normal during Esmya treatment. About 5 
weeks after the last treatment of the second treatment course of Esmya the patient was diagnosed 
with paracetamolaemia. Paracetamol was discontinued. About 1.5 weeks later patient recovered 
following N-acetylcysteine treatment. Because of the diagnosis of paracetamolaemia, acute hepatitis 
was more likely caused by paracetamol treatment. The case is unlikely related to Esmya treatment. 
The sixth case concerned a 34-year-old female who was treated with Esmya for the indication uterine 
myomatosis. The patient had three Esmya treatment courses of three months in the past. During the 
fourth treatment course with Esmya the patient was treated for 57 days with Esmya. Twenty-seven 
days after discontinuation of Esmya, the patient recovered. The patient used bio herbal infusion "La vie 
en herbe, les simples, framboisier" (rubus ideaus), in the last two years, which was not discontinued. 
The patient had no history of alcohol consumption. Viral hepatitis and auto-immune hepatitis were not 
excluded as alternative causes. However, because a positive dechallenge was reported, the increased 
liver lab values were possibly caused by Esmya. 
Although there are remaining uncertainties due to missing data and possible confounders, a causal role 
for Esmya in 4 of these 6 cases reporting serious hepatic events is possible.  
4.1.1.2.  Effectiveness of the implemented risk minimisation measures 
Following the completion of the Article 20 procedure in 2018, a set of risk minimisation measures was 
implemented for Esmya: 
− 
the intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids with Esmya was 
restricted to adult women of reproductive age not eligible for surgery. It was also clarified that 
Esmya could be used as one treatment course of pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe 
symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. The PRAC also recommended 
that the initiation and supervision of treatment with Esmya should be restricted to physicians 
experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of uterine fibroids. 
−  Ulipristal acetate 5mg was contraindicated in patients with underlying hepatic disorders. In 
addition, it was recommended in the product information to perform liver function tests before 
starting each treatment course with Esmya, during treatment as well as two to four weeks after 
the discontinuation of treatment. Guidance on treatment initiation and discontinuation based on 
the results of these tests was included in the product information. Treatment was also 
recommended to be stopped in patients showing signs or symptoms compatible with liver injury 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 25/26 
 
 
 
 
 
and to investigate the patient immediately. The adverse drug reaction of hepatic failure was also 
added to the product information with the frequency unknown. 
−  A patient card was also provided in each package of Esmya, to ensure that patients are adequately 
informed on the possible risks of liver injury and the implemented risk minimisation measures. In 
addition, the existing physician’s guide to prescribing was updated accordingly. 
To evaluate the effectiveness of monitoring of liver parameters in patients treated with Esmya and the 
adherence to the modified indication and to the contraindication of underlying hepatic disorder, the 
MAH of Esmya was requested to conduct a retrospective drug utilisation study through a chart review 
across not less of four major EU countries. 
The study protocol for the drug utilisation study was agreed with PRAC in November 2019 with a plan 
to start the study in Q3 2020. However, the MAH of Esmya presented some findings from post-
marketing spontaneous sources and from post-marketing solicited source to demonstrate effectiveness 
of the measures. In their review of the reported cases with Esmya after 1 August 2018 (announcement 
of EC decision on Article 20 procedure) 20 cases from EEA had ALT or AST > 3xULN (or > 90 IU/L) 
during Esmya treatment. From the analysis of these 20 cases, it can be concluded that the newly 
introduced risk minimisation measures were mostly followed in the clinical practice. In a limited 
number of cases, treatment discontinuation led to normalisation of the liver test results. However, in 
very rare cases liver test values further deteriorated even when Esmya was discontinued, where liver 
function monitoring could not prevent liver transplantation.  
The MAH of Esmya also provided information from the PREMIUM study, a prospective, non-
interventional, post-authorisation safety study (PASS) performed with Esmya (ulipristal acetate 5 mg) 
in the EU with the objective to evaluate the long-term safety of the endometrium. Overall, 1,532 
patients were enrolled (including 1,319 patients in safety population with reported date of Esmya 
treatment start date) and based on the data available, no safety concerns regarding liver parameters 
were identified.  
This study was however not designed to evaluate the risk of liver injury with ulipristal acetate 5mg nor 
the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures in place to prevent that risk. 
In addition, the PRAC noted that the 5th case of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation 
described above occurred despite adherence by the patient and the prescriber to the implemented risk 
minimisation measures and that the liver test values had further deteriorated even when ulipristal 
acetate 5mg was discontinued. Liver transplantation could not be prevented in this case. 
4.1.1.3.  Conclusion on safety aspects 
The risk of serious liver injury associated with ulipristal acetate was thoroughly reviewed in the 
previous Article 20 review which resulted in the restriction of both approved indications and 
implementation of several risk minimisation measures. In addition, the MAH of Esmya, Gedeon Richter, 
was requested to perform several studies including on the mechanism of ulipristal acetate associated 
liver injury. Moreover, `hepatic failure´ was adjudicated as an adverse drug reaction and drug induced 
liver injury (DILI) as an important identified risk for ulipristal acetate.  
The non-clinical and pharmacology studies performed have not contributed to further knowledge 
regarding the mechanism of liver injury in association with ulipristal acetate. Based on the current 
knowledge, the hepatotoxicity associated with ulipristal acetate is considered to be of an idiosyncratic 
nature, making it difficult to identify susceptible patients who would be at an increased risk. 
Where in the four previously reported cases of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation 
(reviewed in the context of the 2018 Article 20 review) some remaining uncertainty regarding the role 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 26/27 
 
 
 
 
 
of ulipristal acetate in the development of liver injury was identified, the recently reported case of 
serious liver injury (5th cumulative case) suggests a causal association between ulipristal acetate and 
acute hepatitis leading to acute liver failure and liver transplantation with a considerably higher degree 
of certainty (probably/highly probable).  
The risk minimisation measures implemented following the Article 20 review were intended to identify 
and exclude patients with underlying liver disorders, to ensure monitoring of patients for liver enzymes 
before, during and after the first two treatment courses of Esmya and to recommend treatment 
discontinuation in case of ALT/AST levels >3xULN. However, the 5th case of serious liver injury leading 
to liver transplantation, occurring despite adherence to the agreed risk minimisation measures, 
confirms that the current recommendations in place for liver monitoring as included in the SmPC may 
not prevent serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation in all patients. 
4.1.2.  Efficacy aspects 
The efficacy of ulipristal acetate 5mg in the treatment of symptoms of uterine fibroids has been 
demonstrated at the time of the initial marketing authorisation of Esmya and no new data regarding 
efficacy have been submitted by the MAHs within this referral procedure.  
4.1.2.1.  Pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids 
The efficacy of fixed doses of ulipristal acetate 5 mg and 10 mg once daily was evaluated in two 
Phase 3 randomised, double-blind, 13 week studies recruiting patients with very heavy menstrual 
bleeding associated with uterine fibroids. 
Study 1 was double-blind placebo controlled. Patients in this study were required to be anaemic at 
Study entry (Hb < 10.2 g/dl) and all patients were to receive oral iron 80 mg Fe++ in addition to study 
medicinal product. Study 2 contained the active comparator, leuprorelin 3.75 mg given once per month 
by intramuscular injection. In Study 2, a double-dummy method was used to maintain the blind. In 
both studies menstrual blood loss was assessed using the Pictorial Bleeding Assessment Chart (PBAC). 
A PBAC >100 within the first 8 days of menses is considered to represent excessive menstrual blood 
loss. 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 27/28 
 
 
 
 
 
In study 1, a statistically significant difference was observed in reduction in menstrual blood loss in 
favour of the patients treated with ulipristal acetate compared to placebo (see Table 1 below), resulting 
in faster and more efficient correction of anaemia than iron alone. Likewise, patients treated with 
ulipristal acetate had a greater reduction in myoma size, as assessed by MRI. 
In study 2, the reduction in menstrual blood loss was comparable for the patients treated with ulipristal 
acetate and the gonadotrophin releasing hormone-agonist (leuprorelin). Most patients treated with 
ulipristal acetate stopped bleeding within the first week of treatment (amenorrhoea). 
4.1.2.2.  Intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids  
The efficacy of repeated treatment courses fixed doses of ulipristal acetate 5 mg or 10 mg once daily 
was evaluated in two Phase 3 studies assessing up to 4 intermittent 3-month treatment courses in 
patients with heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine fibroids.  
Study 3 was on open-label study assessing ulipristal acetate 10 mg, where each of the 3-month 
treatment was followed by 10 days of double-blind treatment with progestin or placebo. Study 4 was a 
randomised, double-blind clinical study assessing ulipristal acetate 5 or 10 mg. 
Studies 3 and 4 showed efficacy in controlling uterine fibroid symptoms (e.g. uterine bleeding) and 
reducing fibroid size after 2 and 4 courses. 
In study 3, treatment efficacy has been shown over >18 months of repeated intermittent treatment (4 
courses of 10 mg once daily), 89.7% of patients were in amenorrhoea at the end of the treatment 
course 4. 
In study 4, 61.9% and 72.7% of patients were in amenorrhoea at the end of both treatment course 1 
and 2 combined (5 mg dose and 10 mg dose, respectively, p=0.032); 48.7 % and 60.5 % were in 
amenorrhoea at the end of all four treatment courses combined (5 mg dose and 10 mg dose, 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 28/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respectively, p=0.027). At the end of treatment course 4, 158 (69.6%) subjects and 164 (74.5%) 
subjects were assessed as being in amenorrhoea, in the 5 mg dose and 10 mg dose respectively 
(p=0.290). 
In all Phase III studies including repeated intermittent treatment studies, a total of 7 cases of 
hyperplasia were observed out of 789 patients with adequate biopsies (0.89%). The vast majority 
spontaneously reversed to normal endometrium after resumption of menstruation during the off-
treatment period. The incidence of hyperplasia did not increase with repeated treatment courses, 
including data on 340 women who received up to 4 courses of ulipristal acetate 5 or 10 mg and limited 
data of 43 women who received up to 8 courses of ulipristal acetate 10 mg. The observed frequency is 
in line with control groups and prevalence reported in literature for symptomatic pre-menopausal 
women of this age group (mean of 40 years). 
4.1.2.3.  Conclusion on efficacy aspects 
Efficacy pre-operative treatment 
At the end of one treatment course (3 months), 73.4% and 75.3%, respectively, of patients in two 
different phase III studies reported amenorrhoea and the median fibroid volume had been reduced 
compared to baseline by 21.2% and 35.6%, respectively. The reduction in myoma size, which may 
facilitate surgery, as well as reduction in blood loss and anaemia, which will improve the general health 
of the patient, are clinically relevant. However, the clinical benefits of the pre-operative treatment 
could be considered limited as it is restricted to one treatment course prior to surgery, and there are 
other short-term treatment alternatives.  
Intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids  
At the end of the fourth treatment course, corresponding to one year of treatment, 69.6% of patients 
reported amenorrhoea and the median reduction of myoma volume from baseline was 71.8% in one 
phase III study. The benefits of ulipristal acetate are considered largest in the intermittent treatment 
indication, i.e. for patients who are not eligible for surgery, since for those patients there are next to 
no other obvious treatment alternatives. Those who are not eligible for surgery may include women 
who, for various reasons, constitute a surgical risk, such as being obese, suffering from concurrent 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 29/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disease, being treated with certain medications or wanting to preserve fertility. Thus, ulipristal 
acetate 5mg may provide clinically relevant benefits to women who are not eligible for surgery, whose 
health and quality of life are affected by symptoms of uterine fibroids, in particular heavy bleeding. 
5.  Expert consultation  
Upon request from the PRAC, an ad-hoc expert group meeting was convened on 2 July 2020.   
Asked about the impact in clinical practice of the removal of the pre-operative treatment for ulipristal 
acetate, most experts agreed that alternatives exist that provide a sufficient efficacy profile in this 
indication in the pre-operative stage, such as GnRH analogues. Some experts pointed out that the 
reduction of volume of fibroids by ulipristal acetate is not considered very high and thus ulipristal 
acetate in the pre-operative setting does not profoundly impact the success of surgery. It was however 
highlighted that ulipristal acetate could still be an additional option for those women who would like to 
opt for this treatment in view of having a chance of reducing the fibroid volume to the point of having 
hysteroscopic myomectomy in the long term and with the aim to preserve fertility – if that proves 
feasible. 
The experts agreed that when considering ulipristal acetate as an intermittent treatment it is very 
important to look at risks of the alternative option that is surgery. The mortality rate after 
hysterectomy range from 1 in 500 to 1 in 3000; while major complications such as bleeding, intestinal 
perforation are at the frequency of 1 in 100. In this context of a relative risk assessment among 
treatment options, most experts stressed the need of having ulipristal acetate as a treatment option in 
this indication. One expert stressed that their clinic treats almost all patients surgically (>99%) – 
however the majority were perimenopausal - and that ulipristal acetate 5mg has not been in use since 
the recommendations were issued after the latest referral. It was indicated that having more 
pharmacogenomics data would be desirable to profile patients for the risk of liver injury before starting 
them on UPA as intermittent treatment. Surgery may not be suitable for several reasons – such as in 
the case of obese patients, patients at risk of venous thrombosis, patients who have tried other 
treatments which failed, and it is also important to consider the patient population that does not want 
to undergo surgery, such as younger patients who would like to preserve fertility.  
From a patient perspective, it was stressed the importance of choice and informed decision of the 
individual taking into account all available options. 
Overall, the experts agreed that ulipristal acetate should remain a treatment option but emphasised 
the importance of a detailed analysis of the risks and careful review of the individual case before any 
decision on the treatment is made.  
The experts were asked to discuss the feasibility in clinical practice of defining a patient population that 
is not eligible for hysterectomy or surgery and for which ulipristal acetate would be the only treatment 
option of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibrosis, and how such selection of patients would 
be done in clinical practice. 
The experts considered counselling of patients to be the centre of decision-making: patients need to be 
made aware of the risks and benefits of both surgery and ulipristal acetate treatment. It was 
highlighted that patients that are not eligible for surgery are patients that do not want to undergo 
surgery (for whatever reason) or are at higher risk of complications when they undergo surgery (e.g. 
because of surgical history or BMI etc), and that hardly any patients have an absolute contraindication 
to undergo surgery.  
The experts recognised that data on the benefits of ulipristal acetate 5mg beyond symptom relief, i.e. 
avoiding surgery/hysterectomy in the longer term are currently lacking, the need for randomised 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 30/31 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical trials and long term follow up of cohorts has been emphasised. It was noted that with a good 
selection (age, symptoms, number and size of myomas) of patients, surgery could be avoided in a high 
percentage of patients. It was highlighted that real-world data about this point could be obtained from 
the PREMYA study, a long-term follow-up cohort study, to help answer this question.  
Although no randomised trials have been conducted to demonstrate the benefit of ulipristal acetate 
5mg as a pre-treatment before hysteroscopic myomectomy, some experts had good experience in this 
perspective, and said it might be a good trial objective for the future. In view of hysterectomy and 
abdominal myomectomy, an alternative has either proven to be superior or is very likely to be superior 
(GnRH analogues). It was also highlighted that sometimes a pre-treatment works so well that the 
patients decide to cancel surgery. 
When asked about the risks associated with ulipristal acetate 5 mg as compared to the risks associated 
with hysterectomy/surgery procedure and how could these be best communicated to the patient, the 
group stressed the importance to balance all available options in each individual situation. For this 
purpose, the experts strongly recommended that the benefits and risks of ulipristal acetate should be 
sufficiently communicated – most importantly the risk of liver injury – and placed in the context of the 
benefits and risks of all other available options, as outlined above. This information should be 
evidence-based and preferably given to the patient as written material to facilitate open discussion 
between the healthcare professionals and the patients in order to make informed decisions on the best 
treatment.  
6.  Benefit-risk balance 
The efficacy of ulipristal acetate 5mg in the treatment of symptoms of uterine fibroids has been 
demonstrated at the time of the initial marketing authorisation of Esmya. The clinical benefits of the 
pre-operative treatment could be considered limited as it is restricted to one treatment course prior to 
surgery, and there are other short-term treatment alternatives. The benefits of ulipristal acetate are 
considered largest in the intermittent treatment indication, i.e., for patients who are not eligible for 
surgery, since for those patients, treatment alternatives are limited. Those who are not eligible for 
surgery may include women who, for various reasons, constitute a surgical risk, such as being obese, 
suffering from concurrent disease, being treated with certain medications or wanting to preserve 
fertility. Thus, ulipristal acetate 5mg may provide clinically relevant benefits to women who are not 
eligible for surgery, whose health and quality of life are affected by symptoms of uterine fibroids, in 
particular heavy bleeding. 
The risk of drug induced liver injury (DILI) in association with use of ulipristal acetate 5mg has been 
reviewed thoroughly in the previous Article 20 review of Esmya. As outcome of this review, `hepatic 
failure´ was adjudicated as an adverse drug reaction and DILI as an important identified risk for 
ulipristal acetate, both approved indications were restricted, and several risk minimisation measures 
were implemented. In addition, the MAH of Esmya was requested to perform several studies including 
on the mechanism of ulipristal acetate associated liver injury to further characterise this risk. However 
these studies have not contributed to further elucidate the mechanism of liver injury in association with 
ulipristal acetate 5mg and based on the available evidence, the hepatotoxicity associated with ulipristal 
acetate is considered to be of an idiosyncratic nature, making it difficult to identify susceptible patients 
who would be at an increased risk. 
Since the previous review, Gedeon Richter noted that the patient exposure to Esmya had registered a 
significant decrease (over 50%). Between 1 March 2018 and 29 February 2020, 476 new cases were 
received within the hepatic disorder SMQ (serious and non-serious events); of those, 97 cases were 
serious with 7 cases containing sufficient/partially sufficient information for causality assessment, 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 31/32 
 
 
 
 
 
including one case of serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation (5th cumulative case). For this 
case, no confounding factors were identified, and other plausible aetiologies were ruled out; 
consequently, causality between ulipristal acetate and acute hepatitis leading to acute liver failure and 
liver transplantation was assessed as probable/highly probable, i.e. with a considerably higher degree 
of certainty. 
It was also noted that a progression in the development of hepatic failure leading to liver 
transplantation could not be prevented. This case therefore confirms that the recommendations for 
liver monitoring as included in the product information further to the previous referral were not able to 
prevent serious liver injury leading to liver transplantation in all patients.  
In the context of this review, the MAHs were asked to discuss the need and feasibility for any further 
risk minimisation measures to further mitigate the risk of serious liver toxicity, including changes to 
the product information, as well as proposals to monitor their effectiveness.  
To further minimise the risk, the MAH of the originator product Esmya has proposed to withdraw the 
indication for pre-operative treatment, indicating that, the pre-operative treatment could be replaced 
by the use of a GnRH agonist for short-term use. As pointed out by some experts consulted in the 
context of this review, the reduction of volume of fibroids by ulipristal acetate 5mg is not considered 
very high and thus the use of this product in the pre-operative setting does not profoundly impact the 
success of surgery. It was also noted by most experts that alternatives exist for this indication in the 
pre-operative stage. In view of the above and taking into account the risk of serious liver injury leading 
to liver transplantation with ulipristal acetate 5mg, the benefit-risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg in 
the pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids is considered 
unfavourable for this indication and this indication should therefore be removed.  
To further minimise the risk, the MAH of Esmya also proposed a restriction of the target population for 
the intermittent indication to patients not eligible for hysterectomy. However, concerns were raised on 
the definition of this subset of patients. From the discussions in the expert group convened in the 
context of this review, it became apparent that the proposed description/definition of this subset of 
patients appears very broad (e.g., women with apparent medical contraindications for surgery, women 
having failed other treatment options, women wanting to preserve fertility, and women not willing to 
undergo surgery). Depending on the interpretation in clinical practice of “patients not willing to 
undergo surgery” or “patients not suitable for surgery/hysterectomy”, this indication may apply to 
many patients thus rendering the restriction of the indication to “not eligible to surgery/ hysterectomy” 
weak as a risk minimisation measure. The experts also recognised that data on the benefits of ulipristal 
acetate 5mg beyond symptom relief, i.e., avoiding surgery/hysterectomy in the longer term are 
currently lacking. 
The experts consulted during the review recommended that the benefits and risks of ulipristal acetate 
should be sufficiently communicated to the patients – most importantly the risk of liver injury – and 
stressed the importance of placing those benefits and risks in the context of the benefits and risks of 
all other available options. The PRAC took the reflections from the experts that surgical treatment 
alternatives to treat moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids are not without risk. However, 
PRAC considered that making a fair comparison between surgical and pharmacological treatments was 
challenging as it would have to include different kinds of short- and long-term outcomes on health by 
either treatment, preferably based on comparative studies. Surgical treatment can lead to immediate 
cure but may convey, in rare cases, a risk of short- or long-term sequelae, whereas pharmacological 
treatments mainly result in alleviation of symptoms but, in rare instances, may lead to serious adverse 
events. Gedeon Richter, the MAH of Esmya, also acknowledged that the feasibility of ensuring that all 
patients have equal opportunity to make an adequately informed decision, including appropriate 
information sharing by the treating physician regarding the risks of treatment options and its relevant 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 32/33 
 
 
 
 
 
consequences, should be considered, and that based on the available tools and communication 
channels, significant limitations could be identified. 
PRAC was of the view that the proposed changes to the indications (i.e., removal of the preoperative 
indication and restriction of the intermittent indication to not eligible to surgery/hysterectomy) may 
further reduce the number of patients exposed to ulipristal acetate 5mg. However, as acknowledged by 
the MAH of Esmya, the patient group for whom the therapy is suitable cannot be scientifically well 
defined, which would make the decision of treatment with ulipristal acetate 5mg rather subjective. In 
addition, in view of the idiosyncratic nature of the risk and the difficulty to predict its occurrence (e.g., 
by identifying relevant risk factors), the PRAC considered that the risk of severe liver injury would not 
be sufficiently reduced in those who would still be exposed. The experts consulted also could not 
identify a population where the risk could be predicted and therefore prevented. PRAC also noted the 
feasibility limitations of ensuring adequate information is made available to all patients for an informed 
decision and was of the view that no further risk minimisation measures could be implemented that 
would prevent the risk of severe liver injury. In view of the above, PRAC concluded that the benefit-
risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg was unfavourable as intermittent treatment of moderate to 
severe symptoms of uterine fibroids. 
In view of the seriousness and idiosyncratic nature of the risk of serious liver injury, the occurrence of 
hepatic failure despite the implemented risk minimisation measures, that neither further risk measures 
to prevent and reduce the risk was identified nor a sub-population where the benefit risk balance of 
ulipristal 5mg could be positive, the PRAC concluded that this risk outweighs the benefits of ulipristal 
acetate 5mg in all its indications. As no condition, if fulfilled in the future, would demonstrate a positive 
benefit-risk balance for these products, the PRAC recommended the revocation of the marketing 
authorisations for ulipristal acetate 5mg medicinal products. 
7.  Grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from the 
evaluation of data from pharmacovigilance activities, for ulipristal acetate 5mg medicinal products; 
The PRAC reviewed the information available to the Committee on ulipristal acetate 5mg and the 
risk of serious liver injury, including the data provided by the marketing authorisation holders of 
ulipristal acetate 5mg in writing and in oral explanations and the outcome of the consultation with 
the ad-hoc expert group convened in the context of this procedure;  
The PRAC reviewed all cases of serious liver injury reported among women treated with ulipristal 
acetate 5 mg for the treatment of symptoms of uterine fibroids, including a new case of serious 
liver injury leading to liver transplantation (the 5th case cumulatively) reported although the risk 
minimisation measures agreed as outcome of the previous Article 20 referral were followed. The 
PRAC concluded that the causal association of ulipristal acetate 5mg with serious liver injury was 
probable/highly probable and noted that a progression in the development of hepatic failure 
leading to liver transplantation could not be prevented; 
• 
The PRAC discussed further risk minimisation proposals and could not identify any additional 
measures that would ensure effective minimisation of the risk to an acceptable level. In view of the 
seriousness and idiosyncratic nature of the risk, the PRAC concluded that this risk outweighs the 
benefits of ulipristal acetate 5mg in the treatment of the symptoms of uterine fibroids. No sub-
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 33/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group of patients in which the benefits of ulipristal acetate 5mg would outweigh the risks could be 
identified; 
• 
Furthermore, the PRAC could not identify any condition, the fulfilment of which would demonstrate 
a positive benefit-risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg medicinal products. 
The Committee, as a consequence, considers that the benefit-risk balance of ulipristal acetate 5mg 
medicinal products for the treatment of symptoms of uterine fibroids is not favourable and 
recommends, pursuant to Article 116 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the revocation of the marketing 
authorisations of all ulipristal acetate 5mg medicinal products. 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 34/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divergent positions to the PRAC recommendation 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 35/36 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-31/1496 
Esmya EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/2041/0049 
Ulipristal Acetate Gedeon Richter EMEA/H/A-31/1496/C/5017/0002 
Ulipristal acetate 5mg 
Divergent statement 
The following PRAC Member(s) consider(s) that the benefit risk ratio of ulipristal acetate 5mg remains 
favourable in a restricted indication, based on the following grounds: 
•  While it has been concluded that the 5th case of serious liver injury has a probable causal 
relationship with Esmya, the reporting rate of serious liver injury of 0.52/100,000 prior to the 
previous Article 20 procedure and 0.51/100,000 since the Article 20 procedure is in line with the 
most conservative background incidence of death/liver transplantation of 0.55 cases per 100,000 
inhabitants of Catalonia (Ibañez 2002). However, in view of the new case with probable causality 
despite adherence to risk minimisation measures, existing measures should be strengthened. 
• 
The benefits of ulipristal acetate 5mg in the intermittent indication are considered relevant for a 
subgroup of women with moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids, i.e., for patients who 
are not eligible for surgery, since for those patients there are next to no other obvious treatment 
alternatives. Those who are not eligible for surgery may include women who, for various reasons, 
constitute a surgical risk, such as being obese, an increased risk of venous thrombosis, suffering 
from concurrent disease, being treated with certain medications or wanting to preserve fertility. 
Thus, ulipristal acetate 5mg may provide clinically relevant benefits to women who are not eligible 
for surgery, whose health and quality of life are affected by symptoms of uterine fibroids, in 
particular heavy bleeding. At the end of the fourth treatment course, corresponding to 
approximately two years of treatment (4 courses of 3 months with re-treatment courses starting in 
the first week of the second menstruation following the previous treatment course completion), 
69.6% of patients reported amenorrhoea and the median reduction of myoma volume from 
baseline was 71.8% in one phase III study. 
•  An important aspect to consider is that other surgical options have their own risks, including 
adverse effects on fertility. The experts consulted during an ad hoc expert group meeting agreed 
that when considering ulipristal acetate 5mg as an intermittent treatment it is very important to 
look at the risks related to the alternative options. Hysterectomy is associated with major 
complications such as bleeding, intestinal perforation (incidence 1 in 100), but also with fatal 
outcomes (ranging from 1 in 500 to 1 in 3,000), so all with a higher incidence than the reporting 
rate of serious liver injury with Esmya. Also, less invasive alternative surgical treatments available 
have their risks, which also need to be taken into account in the decision whether or not to 
operate. Abdominal myomectomy confers substantial risks with respect to fertility, risks of 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 36/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intraoperative conversion to hysterectomy, and frequent development of postoperative intra-
uterine adhesions. Recurrence of fibroids is also common and additional treatment after 
myomectomy may be required. 
• 
The expert group indicated that it is also important to consider the patient population that does not 
want to undergo surgery, such as younger patients who would like to preserve fertility. 
•  Overall, the small risk of serious liver injury is outweighed by the benefits of ulipristal 5mg in the 
intermittent treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women who 
have not reached menopause when uterine fibroid embolisation and surgical treatment options are 
not suitable or have failed. Furthermore, the risk of serious liver injury should be adequately 
described in the product information and educational materials. 
•  As also stressed by the ad hoc expert group, it is important that the individual situation is carefully 
reviewed and risks are considered before any decision on the treatment is made. Counselling of 
patients is key for decision making. This will be facilitated by revised product information and 
educational materials, informing HCPs and patients about the risk of serious liver injury. 
• 
The indication of one treatment course of pre-operative treatment is considered of less benefit as it 
reflects a situation when surgery is planned as an alternative medical option is available for short-
term pre-operative use (i.e., a GnRH agonist). Therefore, the proposal to remove the pre-operative 
treatment with ulipristal acetate 5mg proposed by the MAH is endorsed as additional measure to 
further restrict the population at risk. 
PRAC Members expressing a divergent opinion: 
• 
Jan Neuhauser 
•  Nikica Mirošević Skvrce 
• 
Eva Jirsová 
•  Kirsti Villikka 
•  Zane Neikena 
• 
John Joseph Borg 
•  Menno van der Elst 
•  Roxana Stefania Stroe 
•  Michal Radik 
• 
Eva A. Segovia 
•  Birgitta Grundmark 
•  Milou-Daniel Drici 
•  Hedvig Marie Egeland Nordeng 
•  Raymond Anderson 
Assessment report  
EMA/524073/2020  
Page 37/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
