EMA/162681/2023 
EMEA/H/C/004954 
Ultomiris (ravulizumab) 
An overview of Ultomiris and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ultomiris and what is it used for? 
Ultomiris is a medicine used to treat: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
adults and children weighing at least 10 kg who have paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
(PNH), a disease in which the immune system attacks and damages red blood cells, resulting in 
anaemia (low red blood cell counts), thrombosis (blood clots in the blood vessels), pancytopenia 
(low counts of blood cells) and dark urine; 
adults and children weighing at least 10 kg who have atypical haemolytic uraemic syndrome 
(aHUS), a disease in which the immune system causes damage leading to anaemia, 
thrombocytopenia (a decrease in the number of platelets, components that help the blood to clot) 
and kidney failure; 
adults with generalised myasthenia gravis (gMG), a disease in which the immune system attacks 
and damages receptors at the junction between nerves and muscle cells, causing muscle weakness 
and tiredness; 
adults with neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSD), inflammatory disorders that affect 
mainly the optic nerve (which connects the eye to the brain) and the spinal cord. This leads to 
impaired vision, loss of sensation, loss of bladder control, weakness and paralysis of the arms and 
legs. 
In PNH, Ultomiris is used in patients who have symptoms indicating high disease activity or who have 
been treated with eculizumab (another medicine for PNH and aHUS) for at least the past 6 months and 
have evidence that the treatment is working.  
In aHUS, Ultomiris is used in patients who either have not received complement inhibitors (such as 
eculizumab) before or who have received eculizumab for at least 3 months and have evidence that the 
treatment is working. 
In gMG, Ultomiris is given with other medicines in patients whose immune system produces a specific 
antibody ( type of protein) against a target found on muscle cells, called acetylcholine receptor. 
In NMOSD, Ultomiris is used in patients who have antibodies against a protein called aquaporin-4 
(AQP4).  
Ultomiris contains the active substance ravulizumab. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Ultomiris used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and must be given under the guidance and 
supervision of a doctor who has experience in the management of patients with kidney disorders and 
disorders affecting the nervous system or the blood.  
Ultomiris is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein; for PHN and aHUS, Ultomiris can also be given as an 
injection under the skin.  
For PNH, gMG and NMOSD, this is a life-long treatment. For aHUS, the medicine is given for at least 6 
months, but the doctor will consider the length of treatment for each patient individually. Patients are 
monitored for any reactions during the infusion and for at least one hour afterwards. In case of any 
infusion-related reactions, the doctor may slow down or stop the infusion. 
For more information about using Ultomiris, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ultomiris work? 
The active substance in Ultomiris, ravulizumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) designed 
to attach to the C5 complement protein, which is a part of the immune system called the “complement 
system”.   
In PNH, aHUS, gMG and NMOSD, the complement proteins are over-active, causing the destruction of 
red blood cells in PNH, the formation of blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body 
(thrombotic microangiopathy) in aHUS, the damage to receptors at the junction between nerves and 
muscles resulting in muscular weakness in gMG, and the damage to nerve cells seen in patients with 
NMOSD. By blocking the C5 complement protein, Ultomiris prevents the immune system from 
damaging cells, thereby helping to control symptoms of these diseases. 
What benefits of Ultomiris have been shown in studies? 
Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
Ultomiris was shown in 2 studies in adults to be as effective as eculizumab in reducing the breakdown 
of red blood cells and avoiding the need for transfusions in patients with PNH.  
In the first study, 246 patients with PNH who previously had not been treated with a complement 
inhibitor, such as eculizumab, received either Ultomiris or eculizumab. After 6 months of treatment, 
similar benefits were seen in both groups, with two-thirds or more of patients (74% given Ultomiris 
and 66% given eculizumab) not needing red blood cell transfusions. In addition, around half of the 
patients in both groups had achieved normal blood levels of the enzyme LDH.  
In the second study in 195 patients with PNH who did not have symptoms after at least 6 months of 
treatment with eculizumab, patients either continued treatment with eculizumab or switched to 
Ultomiris. The change in blood levels of LDH after 6 months of treatment was similar in the 2 groups. 
In addition, none of the patients treated with Ultomiris had a flare-up of symptoms during this time, in 
comparison to 5 of those continuing with eculizumab. 
A third ongoing study showed comparable benefits from Ultomiris in 13 patients aged between 9 and 
17 years who had either not been treated previously with a complement inhibitor or were stable on 
treatment with eculizumab. After 6 months of treatment, 3 of 5 previously untreated patients and 4 of 
8 eculizumab-experienced patients had normal levels of LDH. In addition, 3 of the 5 previously 
untreated and all 8 of the previously treated patients did not need blood transfusions during treatment. 
Ultomiris (ravulizumab)  
EMA/162681/2023 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
The company also provided supportive data to show that the way the medicine acts and is distributed 
in the body is similar in children and adults. 
An additional study in 128 patients with PNH showed that Ultomiris given by injection under the skin is 
as effective as when the medicine is given by infusion. 
Atypical haemolytic uremic syndrome 
Ultomiris was effective at reducing symptoms of aHUS in 2 main studies. The studies looked at the 
number of patients who achieved a ‘complete thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) response’, meaning 
patients with platelet and LDH levels within normal range and a minimum 25% improvement in serum 
creatinine (a marker of kidney function), over 6 months of treatment. 
In the first study, 30 out of 56 adults and adolescents (54%) with aHUS who had not been treated with 
a complement inhibitor before achieved a complete TMA response. The second study involved children 
and adolescents who had either not been treated with a complement inhibitor before or who had 
received eculizumab. In this study 14 out of 18 patients (78%) had a complete TMA Response. There 
were not enough data in children under 2 years of age to demonstrate the effectiveness of Ultomiris in 
children weighing less than 10 kg.   
Generalised myasthenia gravis  
Ultomiris was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in one main study involving 175 adult 
patients, who had symptoms despite receiving standard treatment for their disease. Treatment with 
Ultomiris improved patients’ symptoms and their ability to undertake daily activities based on a 
standard scoring system called MG-ADL, which measures the impact of the disease on the patients’ 
daily activities. The scale ranges from 0 to 24 and higher scores indicate more severe symptoms. After 
26 weeks, Ultomiris led to a 3.1 point reduction in the MG-ADL score, whereas placebo led to a 1.4 
point reduction.  
Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders  
One (ongoing) study involving 58 adults with NMOSD who had AQP4 antibodies showed that Ultomiris 
was effective at increasing the length of time between relapses (flare-ups of NMOSD symptoms). 
During the first phase of the study, which lasted between 50 weeks and 2,5 years (depending on when 
a patient first entered the study), there were no flare-ups of symptoms in patients given Ultomiris.  
What are the risks associated with Ultomiris? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Ultomiris, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Ultomiris (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
diarrhoea, nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), upper respiratory tract infections 
(infections of the nose and throat) and headache. The most serious side effect is meningococcal 
infection, a bacterial infection caused by Neisseria meningitidis that can cause meningitis and blood 
poisoning. 
Patients treated with Ultomiris are more prone to infections, including severe meningococcal disease, 
therefore, Ultomiris must not be used in patients who have an ongoing meningococcal infection. It 
must not be used in patients who have not been vaccinated against this infection unless they are 
taking appropriate antibiotics to reduce the risk of infection. Patients must take antibiotics for 2 weeks 
after they have been vaccinated.  
Ultomiris (ravulizumab)  
EMA/162681/2023 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
Why is Ultomiris authorised in the EU? 
Ultomiris is as effective as eculizumab in treating patients with PNH, reducing the breakdown of red 
blood cells and avoiding the need for transfusions. Although data was not available from patients 
weighing less than 30 kg, benefits were expected to be similar in these patients; dosage in those 
weighing at least 10 kg could be based on that in aHUS and further evidence from other studies.  
In aHUS, Ultomiris was not compared with eculizumab, however the European Medicines Agency 
concluded based on the data provided that the benefits in adults and children weighing at least 10 kg 
were clinically significant. The Agency also noted that Ultomiris has a more convenient treatment 
schedule than eculizumab (with one infusion every 8 weeks instead of every 2 weeks). As for its 
safety, Ultomiris has similar side effects to eculizumab.  
In gMG, Ultomiris was more effective than placebo at controlling symptoms of the disease, based on 
the results of studies which measured both the patients’ and physicians’ assessment of treatment on 
the impact of the disease in terms of ability to undertake daily activities. The Agency also concluded 
that patients treated with Ultomiris were less likely to experience either worsening of their disease and 
require hospitalisation or treatment with rescue medicines, compared to those treated with placebo. 
With regards to safety, no new side effects were identified when Ultomiris was used to treat patients 
with gMG.  
In NMOSD, Ultomiris was shown to be effective at increasing the length of time between relapses; side 
effects were similar to those observed for the medicine’s other uses. 
The Agency therefore decided that Ultomiris’ benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised 
for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ultomiris? 
The company that markets Ultomiris will ensure that the medicine is only made available to patients 
when healthcare professionals have made a written declaration that they have been vaccinated or are 
receiving antibiotic treatment to prevent meningococcal disease. The company will also provide 
prescribers and patients with information on the safety of the medicine, and will send reminders to 
prescribers and pharmacists to check if re-vaccination is needed for patients taking Ultomiris. Patients 
will also be given a special card that explains the symptoms of meningococcal infection, instructing 
patients to seek medical care immediately if they experience them.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ultomiris have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ultomiris are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Ultomiris are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Ultomiris 
Ultomiris received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 2 July 2019. 
Further information on Ultomiris can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ultomiris.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2023. 
Ultomiris (ravulizumab)  
EMA/162681/2023 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
