ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ulunar Breezhaler 85 micrograms/43 micrograms inhalation powder hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each capsule contains 143 micrograms of indacaterol maleate equivalent to 110 micrograms of 
indacaterol and 63 micrograms of glycopyrronium bromide equivalent to 50 micrograms of 
glycopyrronium. 
Each delivered dose (the dose that leaves the mouthpiece of the inhaler) contains 110 micrograms of 
indacaterol maleate equivalent to 85 micrograms of indacaterol and 54 micrograms of glycopyrronium 
bromide equivalent to 43 micrograms of glycopyrronium. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each capsule contains 23.5 mg lactose (as monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule (inhalation powder). 
Capsules with transparent yellow cap and natural transparent body containing a white to almost white 
powder, with the product code “IGP110.50” printed in blue under two blue bars on the body and the 
company logo (
) printed in black on the cap. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Ulunar Breezhaler is indicated as a maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adult 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is the inhalation of the content of one capsule once daily using the Ulunar 
Breezhaler inhaler. 
Ulunar Breezhaler is recommended to be administered at the same time of the day each day. If a dose 
is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible on the same day. Patients should be instructed not to 
take more than one dose in a day. 
Special populations 
Elderly population 
Ulunar Breezhaler can be used at the recommended dose in elderly patients (75 years of age and 
older). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
Ulunar Breezhaler can be used at the recommended dose in patients with mild to moderate renal 
impairment. In patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis it 
should be used only if the expected benefit outweighs the potential risk (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Ulunar Breezhaler can be used at the recommended dose in patients with mild and moderate hepatic 
impairment. There are no data available for the use of Ulunar Breezhaler in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment, therefore caution should be observed in these patients (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Ulunar Breezhaler in the paediatric population (under 18 years) in the 
indication COPD. The safety and efficacy of Ulunar Breezhaler in children have not been established. 
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
For inhalation use only. The capsules must not be swallowed. 
The capsules must be administered only using the Ulunar Breezhaler inhaler (see section 6.6). The 
inhaler provided with each new prescription should be used. 
Patients should be instructed on how to administer the medicinal product correctly. Patients who do 
not experience improvement in breathing should be asked if they are swallowing the medicinal 
product rather than inhaling it. 
For instructions on use of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Ulunar Breezhaler should not be administered concomitantly with medicinal products containing other 
long-acting beta-adrenergic agonists or long-acting muscarinic antagonists, the pharmacotherapeutic 
groups to which the components of Ulunar Breezhaler belong (see section 4.5). 
Asthma 
Ulunar Breezhaler should not be used for the treatment of asthma due to the absence of data in this 
indication. 
Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists may increase the risk of asthma-related serious adverse events, 
including asthma-related deaths, when used for the treatment of asthma. 
Not for acute use 
Ulunar Breezhaler is not indicated for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. 
Hypersensitivity 
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported after administration of indacaterol or 
glycopyrronium, which are the active substances of Ulunar Breezhaler. If signs suggesting allergic 
reactions occur, in particular, angioedema (difficulties in breathing or swallowing, swelling of the 
tongue, lips and face), urticaria or skin rash, treatment should be discontinued immediately and 
alternative therapy instituted. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paradoxical bronchospasm 
Administration of Ulunar Breezhaler may result in paradoxical bronchospasm which can be 
life-threatening. If this occurs, treatment should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy 
instituted. 
Anticholinergic effects related to glycopyrronium 
Narrow-angle glaucoma 
No data are available in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma, therefore Ulunar Breezhaler should be 
used with caution in these patients. 
Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of acute narrow-angle glaucoma and 
should be informed to stop using Ulunar Breezhaler should any of these signs or symptoms develop. 
Urinary retention 
No data are available in patients with urinary retention, therefore Ulunar Breezhaler should be used 
with caution in these patients. 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
A moderate mean increase in total system exposure (AUClast) to glycopyrronium of up to 1.4-fold was 
seen in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment and up to 2.2-fold in subjects with severe 
renal impairment and end-stage renal disease. In patients with severe renal impairment (estimated 
glomerular filtration rate below 30 ml/min/1.73 m2), including those with end-stage renal disease 
requiring dialysis, Ulunar Breezhaler should be used only if the expected benefit outweighs the 
potential risk (see section 5.2). These patients should be monitored closely for potential adverse 
reactions. 
Cardiovascular effects 
Ulunar Breezhaler should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders (coronary 
artery disease, acute myocardial infarction, cardiac arrhythmias, hypertension). 
Beta2-adrenergic agonists may produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients 
as measured by increases in pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. In case such effects occur 
with this medicinal product, treatment may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-adrenergic 
agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiographic (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the 
T wave, prolongation of QT interval and ST segment depression, although the clinical significance of 
these observations is unknown. Therefore, long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists (LABA) or 
LABA-containing combination products such as Ulunar Breezhaler should be used with caution in 
patients with known or suspected prolongation of the QT interval or treated with medicinal products 
affecting the QT interval. 
Patients with unstable ischaemic heart disease, left ventricular failure, history of myocardial infarction, 
arrhythmia (excluding chronic stable atrial fibrillation), a history of long QT syndrome or whose QTc 
(Fridericia method) was prolonged (>450 ms) were excluded from the clinical trials, and therefore 
there is no experience in these patient groups. Ulunar Breezhaler should be used with caution in these 
patient groups. 
Hypokalaemia 
Beta2-adrenergic agonists may produce significant hypokalaemia in some patients, which has the 
potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects. The decrease in serum potassium is usually 
transient, not requiring supplementation. In patients with severe COPD, hypokalaemia may be 
potentiated by hypoxia and concomitant treatment, which may increase the susceptibility to cardiac 
arrhythmias (see section 4.5). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinically relevant effects of hypokalaemia have not been observed in clinical studies of Ulunar 
Breezhaler at the recommended therapeutic dose (see section 5.1). 
Hyperglycaemia 
Inhalation of high doses of beta2-adrenergic agonists may produce increases in plasma glucose. Upon 
initiation of treatment with Ulunar Breezhaler plasma glucose should be monitored more closely in 
diabetic patients. 
During long-term clinical studies, more patients on Ulunar Breezhaler experienced clinically notable 
changes in blood glucose (4.9%) at the recommended dose than on placebo (2.7%). Ulunar Breezhaler 
has not been investigated in patients for whom diabetes mellitus is not well controlled, therefore 
caution and appropriate monitoring are advised in such patients. 
General disorders 
Ulunar Breezhaler should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis, 
and in patients who are unusually responsive to beta2-adrenergic agonists. 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal 
product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Concomitant administration of orally inhaled indacaterol and glycopyrronium, under steady-state 
conditions of both active substances, did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either active substance. 
No specific interaction studies were conducted with Ulunar Breezhaler. Information on the potential 
for interactions is based on the potential for each of its two active substances. 
Concomitant use not recommended 
Beta-adrenergic blockers 
Beta-adrenergic blockers may weaken or antagonise the effect of beta2-adrenergic agonists. Therefore 
Ulunar Breezhaler should not be given together with beta-adrenergic blockers (including eye drops) 
unless there are compelling reasons for their use. Where required, cardioselective beta-adrenergic 
blockers should be preferred, although they should be administered with caution. 
Anticholinergics 
The co-administration of Ulunar Breezhaler with other anticholinergic-containing medicinal products 
has not been studied and is therefore not recommended (see section 4.4). 
Sympathomimetics 
Concomitant administration of other sympathomimetics (alone or as part of combination therapy) may 
potentiate the adverse events of indacaterol (see section 4.4). 
Caution required with concomitant use 
Hypokalaemic treatment 
Concomitant hypokalaemic treatment with methylxanthine derivatives, steroids, or non-potassium-
sparing diuretics may potentiate the possible hypokalaemic effect of beta2-adrenergic agonists, 
therefore use with caution (see section 4.4). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To be taken into account with concomitant use 
Metabolic and transporter based interactions 
Inhibition of the key contributors of indacaterol clearance, CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), raises 
the systemic exposure of indacaterol up to two-fold. The magnitude of exposure increases due to 
interactions does not raise any safety concerns given the safety experience of treatment with 
indacaterol in clinical studies of up to one year at doses up to twice the maximum recommended 
indacaterol dose. 
Cimetidine or other inhibitors of organic cation transport 
In a clinical study in healthy volunteers, cimetidine, an inhibitor of organic cation transport which is 
thought to contribute to the renal excretion of glycopyrronium, increased total exposure (AUC) to 
glycopyrronium by 22% and decreased renal clearance by 23%. Based on the magnitude of these 
changes, no clinically relevant drug interaction is expected when glycopyrronium is co-administered 
with cimetidine or other inhibitors of the organic cation transport. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of Ulunar Breezhaler in pregnant women available. Animal studies do 
not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity at clinically relevant 
exposures (see section 5.3). 
Indacaterol may inhibit labour due to a relaxant effect on uterine smooth muscle. Therefore, Ulunar 
Breezhaler should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefit to the patient justifies the 
potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether indacaterol, glycopyrronium and their metabolites are excreted in human milk. 
Available pharmacokinetic/toxicological data have shown excretion of indacaterol, glycopyrronium 
and their metabolites in the milk of lactating rats. The use of Ulunar Breezhaler by breast-feeding 
women should only be considered if the expected benefit to the woman is greater than any possible 
risk to the infant (see section 5.3). 
Fertility 
Reproduction studies and other data in animals do not indicate a concern regarding fertility in either 
males or females. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
This medicinal product has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
However, the occurrence of dizziness may influence the ability to drive and use machines (see 
section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
The presentation of the safety profile is based on the experience with Ulunar Breezhaler and the 
individual active substances. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety experience with Ulunar Breezhaler was comprised of exposure of up to 15 months at the 
recommended therapeutic dose. 
Ulunar Breezhaler showed similar adverse reactions to the individual components. As it contains 
indacaterol and glycopyrronium, the type and severity of adverse reactions associated with each of 
these components may be expected in the combination. 
The safety profile is characterised by typical anticholinergic and beta-adrenergic symptoms related to 
the individual components of the combination. Other most common adverse reactions related to the 
medicinal product (at least 3% of patients for Ulunar Breezhaler and also greater than placebo) were 
cough, nasopharyngitis and headache. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions detected during clinical trials and from post-marketing sources are listed by 
MedDRA system organ class (Table 1). Within each system organ class, the adverse reactions are 
ranked by frequency, with the most frequent reactions first. Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. In addition, the corresponding frequency 
category for each adverse reaction is based on the following convention: very common (≥1/10); 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000, <1/1,000); very rare 
(<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Table 1 
Adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Nasopharyngitis 
Urinary tract infection 
Sinusitis 
Rhinitis 
Immune system disorders 
Hypersensitivity 
Angioedema2 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes mellitus 
Psychiatric disorders 
Insomnia 
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Paraesthesia 
Eye disorders 
Glaucoma1 
Cardiac disorders 
Ischaemic heart disease 
Atrial fibrillation 
Tachycardia 
Palpitations 
Frequency category 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Cough 
Oropharyngeal pain including throat irritation 
Paradoxical bronchospasm 
Dysphonia2 
Epistaxis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Dyspepsia 
Dental caries 
Gastroenteritis 
Dry mouth 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Pruritus/rash 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Muscle spasm 
Myalgia 
Pain in extremity 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Bladder obstruction and urinary retention 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Pyrexia1 
Chest pain 
Peripheral oedema 
Fatigue 
1 Adverse reaction observed with Ulunar Breezhaler, but not with the individual components. 
2 Reports received from post-marketing experience; frequencies calculated, however, on the basis of 
clinical trial data. 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Cough was common, but usually of mild intensity. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no information on clinically relevant overdosing with Ulunar Breezhaler. 
An overdose could lead to exaggerated effects typical of beta2-adrenergic stimulants, i.e. tachycardia, 
tremor, palpitations, headache, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, ventricular arrhythmias, metabolic 
acidosis, hypokalaemia and hyperglycaemia or could induce anticholinergic effects such as increased 
intraocular pressure (causing pain, vision disturbances or reddening of the eye), obstipation or 
difficulties in voiding. Supportive and symptomatic treatment is indicated. In serious cases, patients 
should be hospitalised. Use of cardioselective beta blockers may be considered for treating beta2-
adrenergic effects, but only under the supervision of a physician and with extreme caution since the 
use of beta-adrenergic blockers may provoke bronchospasm. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Drugs for obstructive airway diseases, adrenergics in combination with 
anticholinergics, ATC code: R03AL04 
Mechanism of action 
Ulunar Breezhaler 
When indacaterol and glycopyrronium are administered together in Ulunar Breezhaler, they provide 
additive efficacy due to their different mode of action targeting different receptors and pathways to 
achieve smooth muscle relaxation. Due to the differential density of beta2-adrenoceptors and 
M3-receptors in central versus peripheral airways, beta2-agonists should be more effective in relaxing 
peripheral airways, whilst an anticholinergic compound may be more effective in central airways. 
Thus for bronchodilation in both peripheral and central airways of the human lung a combination of a 
beta2-adrenergic agonist and a muscarinic antagonist may be beneficial. 
Indacaterol 
Indacaterol is a long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist for once-daily administration. The 
pharmacological effects of beta2-adrenoceptor agonists, including indacaterol, are at least in part 
attributable to stimulation of intracellular adenyl cyclase, the enzyme that catalyses the conversion of 
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3’, 5’-adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP). Increased 
cyclic AMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle. In vitro studies have shown that 
indacaterol has multi-fold greater agonist activity at beta2-receptors compared to beta1 and 
beta3-receptors. 
When inhaled, indacaterol acts locally in the lung as a bronchodilator. Indacaterol is a partial agonist 
at the human beta2-adrenergic receptor with nanomolar potency. 
Although beta2-adrenergic receptors are the predominant adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth 
muscle and beta1-adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors in the human heart, there are also 
beta2-adrenergic receptors in the human heart comprising 10% to 50% of the total adrenergic 
receptors. Their presence in the heart raises the possibility that even highly selective beta2-adrenergic 
agonists may have cardiac effects. 
Glycopyrronium 
Glycopyrronium is an inhaled long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (anticholinergic) for 
once-daily maintenance bronchodilator treatment of COPD. Parasympathetic nerves are the major 
bronchoconstrictive neural pathway in airways, and cholinergic tone is the key reversible component 
of airflow obstruction in COPD. Glycopyrronium works by blocking the bronchoconstrictor action of 
acetylcholine on airway smooth muscle cells, thereby dilating the airways. 
Glycopyrronium bromide is a high affinity muscarinic receptor antagonist. A greater than 4-fold 
selectivity for the human M3 receptors over the human M2 receptor has been demonstrated using 
radioligand binding studies. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The combination of indacaterol and glycopyrronium in Ulunar Breezhaler showed a rapid onset of 
action within 5 minutes after dosing. The effect remains constant over the whole 24-h dosing interval. 
The mean bronchodilator effect derived from serial FEV1 measurements over 24 h was 320 ml after 
26 weeks of treatment. The effect was significantly greater for Ulunar Breezhaler, when compared to 
indacaterol, glycopyrronium or tiotropium alone (difference 110 ml, for each comparison). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no evidence for tachyphylaxis to the effect of Ulunar Breezhaler over time when compared 
to placebo or its monotherapy components. 
Effects on heart rate 
Heart rate effects in healthy volunteers were investigated after a single dose of 4 times the 
recommended therapeutic dose of Ulunar Breezhaler administered in four dose steps each separated by 
one hour and compared to the effects of placebo, indacaterol, glycopyrronium and salmeterol. 
The largest time-matched heart rate increase compared to placebo was +5.69 bpm (90% CI [2.71, 
8.66]), the largest decrease was -2.51 bpm (90% CI [-5.48, 0.47]). Overall the effect on heart rate over 
time did not show a consistent pharmacodynamic effect of Ulunar Breezhaler. 
Heart rate in COPD patients at supratherapeutic dose levels was investigated. There were no relevant 
effects of Ulunar Breezhaler on mean heart rate over 24 h and heart rate assessed after 30 minutes, 4 h 
and 24 h. 
QT interval 
A thorough QT (TQT) study in healthy volunteers with high doses of inhaled indacaterol (up to twice 
the maximum recommended therapeutic dose) did not demonstrate a clinically relevant effect on the 
QT interval. Similarly, for glycopyrronium no QT prolongation was observed in a TQT study after an 
inhaled dose of 8 times the recommended therapeutic dose. 
The effects of Ulunar Breezhaler on QTc interval were investigated in healthy volunteers after 
inhalation of Ulunar Breezhaler up to 4 times the recommended therapeutic dose in four dose steps 
each separated by one hour. The largest time-matched difference versus placebo was 4.62 ms (90% CI 
0.40, 8.85 ms), the largest time-matched decrease was -2.71 ms (90% CI -6.97, 1.54 ms), indicating 
that Ulunar Breezhaler had no relevant impact on the QT interval, as was expected by the properties of 
its components. 
In COPD patients, supratherapeutic doses between 116 micrograms/86 micrograms and 
464 micrograms/86 micrograms of Ulunar Breezhaler showed a higher proportion of patients with 
QTcF increases vs. baseline between 30 ms and 60 ms (ranging from 16.0% to 21.6% vs. 1.9% for 
placebo), but there were no QTcF increases >60 ms from baseline. The highest dose level of 
464 micrograms/86 micrograms Ulunar Breezhaler also showed a higher proportion of absolute QTcF 
values >450 ms (12.2% vs. 5.7% for placebo). 
Serum potassium and blood glucose 
In healthy volunteers, after the administration of 4 times the recommended therapeutic dose of Ulunar 
Breezhaler, the effect on serum potassium was very small (maximal difference –0.14 mmol/l when 
compared to placebo). The maximal effect on blood glucose was 0.67 mmol/l. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The Ulunar Breezhaler clinical Phase III development programme included six studies in which over 
8,000 patients were enrolled: 1) a 26-week placebo- and active-controlled (indacaterol once daily, 
glycopyrronium once daily, open-label tiotropium once daily) study; 2) a 26-week active-controlled 
(fluticasone/salmeterol twice daily) study; 3) a 64-week active-controlled (glycopyrronium once daily, 
open-label tiotropium once daily) study; 4) a 52-week placebo-controlled study; 5) a 3-week placebo- 
and active-controlled (tiotropium once daily) exercise tolerance study; and 6) a 52-week active-
controlled (fluticasone/salmeterol twice daily) study. 
In four of these studies patients were enrolled who had a clinical diagnosis of moderate to severe 
COPD. In the 64-week study patients were enrolled who had severe to very severe COPD with a 
history of ≥1 moderate or severe COPD exacerbation in the previous year. In the 52-week active-
controlled study, patients were enrolled who had moderate to very severe COPD with a history of 
≥1 moderate or severe COPD exacerbation in the previous year. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects on lung function 
Ulunar Breezhaler showed clinically meaningful improvements in lung function (as measured by the 
forced expiratory volume in one second, FEV1) in a number of clinical studies. In Phase III studies, 
bronchodilator effects were seen within 5 minutes after the first dose and were maintained over the 
24-hour dosing interval from the first dose. There was no attenuation of the bronchodilator effect over 
time. 
The magnitude of the effect was dependent on the degree of reversibility of airflow limitation at 
baseline (tested by administration of a short-acting muscarinic antagonist bronchodilator and a 
short-acting beta2-agonist bronchodilator): Patients with the lowest degree of reversibility at baseline 
(<5%) generally exhibited a lower bronchodilator response than patients with a higher degree of 
reversibility at baseline (≥5%). At 26 weeks (primary endpoint), Ulunar Breezhaler increased trough 
FEV1 by 80 ml in patients (Ulunar Breezhaler n=82; placebo n=42) with the lowest degree of 
reversibility (<5%) (p=0.053) and by 220 ml in those patients (Ulunar Breezhaler n=392, placebo 
n=190) with a higher degree of reversibility at baseline (≥5%) compared to placebo (p<0.001). 
Trough and peak FEV1: 
Ulunar Breezhaler increased post-dose trough FEV1 by 200 ml compared to placebo at the 26-week 
primary endpoint (p<0.001) and showed statistically significant increases compared to each 
monotherapy component treatment arm (indacaterol and glycopyrronium) as well as the tiotropium 
treatment arm, as shown in the below table. 
Post-dose trough FEV1 (least squares mean) at day 1 and week 26 (primary endpoint) 
Treatment difference 
Ulunar Breezhaler – placebo 
Ulunar Breezhaler – indacaterol 
Ulunar Breezhaler – glycopyrronium 
Ulunar Breezhaler – tiotropium 
Day 1 
190 ml (p<0.001) 
80 ml (p<0.001) 
80 ml (p<0.001) 
80 ml (p<0.001) 
Week 26 
200 ml (p<0.001) 
70 ml (p<0.001) 
90 ml (p<0.001) 
80 ml (p<0.001) 
The mean pre-dose FEV1 (average of the values taken at -45 and -15 minutes prior to the morning 
dose of study medication) was statistically significant in favour of Ulunar Breezhaler at week 26 
compared to fluticasone/salmeterol (least squares [LS] mean treatment difference 100 ml, p<0.001), at 
week 52 compared to placebo (LS mean treatment difference 189 ml, p<0.001) and at all visits up to 
week 64 compared to glycopyrronium (LS mean treatment difference 70-80 ml, p<0.001) and 
tiotropium (LS mean treatment difference 60-80 ml, p<0.001). In the 52-week active-controlled study, 
the mean pre-dose FEV1 was statistically significant in favour of Ulunar Breezhaler at all visits up to 
week 52 compared to fluticasone/salmeterol (LS mean treatment difference 62-86 ml, p<0.001). At 
week 26, Ulunar Breezhaler produced statistically significant improvement in peak FEV1 compared to 
placebo in the first 4 hours post dose (LS mean treatment difference 330 ml) (p<0.001). 
FEV1 AUC: 
Ulunar Breezhaler increased post-dose FEV1 AUC0-12 (primary endpoint) by 140 ml at 26 weeks 
(p<0.001) compared to fluticasone/salmeterol. 
Symptomatic outcomes 
Breathlessness: 
Ulunar Breezhaler statistically significantly reduced breathlessness as evaluated by the Transitional 
Dyspnoea Index (TDI); it demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in the TDI focal score 
at week 26 compared to placebo (LS mean treatment difference 1.09, p<0.001), tiotropium (LS mean 
treatment difference 0.51, p=0.007) and fluticasone/salmeterol (LS mean treatment difference 0.76, 
p=0.003). Improvements versus indacaterol and glycopyrronium were 0.26 and 0.21, respectively. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A statistically significantly higher percentage of patients receiving Ulunar Breezhaler responded with 
a 1 point or greater improvement in the TDI focal score at week 26 compared to placebo (68.1% and 
57.5% respectively, p=0.004). A higher proportion of patients demonstrated clinically meaningful 
response at week 26 on Ulunar Breezhaler as compared to tiotropium (68.1% Ulunar Breezhaler 
versus 59.2% tiotropium, p=0.016) and fluticasone/salmeterol (65.1% Ulunar Breezhaler versus 55.5% 
fluticasone/salmeterol, p=0.088). 
Health-related quality of life: 
Ulunar Breezhaler has also shown a statistically significant effect on health-related quality of life 
measured using the St. George’s Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) as indicated by a reduction in 
SGRQ total score at 26 weeks compared to placebo (LS mean treatment difference -3.01, p=0.002) 
and tiotropium (LS mean treatment difference -2.13, p=0.009) and reductions versus indacaterol and 
glycopyrronium were -1.09 and -1.18, respectively. At 64 weeks, the reduction compared to 
tiotropium was statistically significant (LS mean treatment difference -2.69, p<0.001). At 52 weeks, 
the reduction compared to fluticasone/salmeterol was statistically significant (LS mean treatment 
difference -1.3, p=0.003). 
A higher percentage of patients receiving Ulunar Breezhaler responded with a clinically meaningful 
improvement in SGRQ score (defined as a decrease of at least 4 units from baseline) at week 26 
compared to placebo (63.7% and 56.6% respectively, p=0.088) and tiotropium (63.7% Ulunar 
Breezhaler vs. 56.4% tiotropium, p=0.047), at week 64 compared to glycopyrronium and tiotropium 
(57.3% Ulunar Breezhaler versus 51.8% glycopyrronium, p=0.055; versus 50.8% tiotropium, p=0.051, 
respectively), and at week 52 compared to fluticasone/salmeterol (49.2% Ulunar Breezhaler vs. 43.7% 
fluticasone/salmeterol, odds ratio: 1.30, p<0.001). 
Daily activities 
Ulunar Breezhaler demonstrated a statistically superior improvement versus tiotropium in the 
percentage of “days able to perform usual daily activities” over 26 weeks (LS mean treatment 
difference 8.45%, p<0.001). At week 64, Ulunar Breezhaler showed numerical improvement over 
glycopyrronium (LS mean treatment difference 1.95%; p=0.175) and statistical improvement over 
tiotropium (LS mean treatment difference 4.96%; p=0.001). 
COPD exacerbations 
In a 64-week study comparing Ulunar Breezhaler (n=729), glycopyrronium (n=739) and tiotropium 
(n=737), Ulunar Breezhaler reduced the annualised rate of moderate or severe COPD exacerbations by 
12% compared to glycopyrronium (p=0.038) and by 10% compared to tiotropium (p=0.096). The 
number of moderate or severe COPD exacerbations/patient-years was 0.94 for Ulunar Breezhaler 
(812 events), 1.07 for glycopyrronium (900 events) and 1.06 for tiotropium (898 events). Ulunar 
Breezhaler also statistically significantly reduced the annualised rate of all COPD exacerbations (mild, 
moderate or severe) by 15% as compared to glycopyrronium (p=0.001) and 14% as compared to 
tiotropium (p=0.002). The number of all COPD exacerbations/patient-years was 3.34 for Ulunar 
Breezhaler (2,893 events), 3.92 for glycopyrronium (3,294 events) and 3.89 for tiotropium 
(3,301 events). 
In the 52-week study comparing Ulunar Breezhaler (n=1,675) and fluticasone/salmeterol (n=1,679), 
Ulunar Breezhaler met the primary study objective of non-inferiority in rate of all COPD 
exacerbations (mild, moderate or severe) compared to fluticasone/salmeterol. The number of all 
COPD exacerbations/patient-years was 3.59 for Ulunar Breezhaler (4,531 events) and 4.03 for 
fluticasone/salmeterol (4,969 events). Ulunar Breezhaler further showed superiority in reducing the 
annualised rate of all exacerbations by 11% versus fluticasone/salmeterol (p=0.003). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compared to fluticasone/salmeterol, Ulunar Breezhaler reduced the annualised rate of both moderate 
or severe exacerbations by 17% (p<0.001), and of severe exacerbations (requiring hospitalisation) by 
13% (not statistically significant, p=0.231). The number of moderate or severe COPD 
exacerbations/patient-years was 0.98 for Ulunar Breezhaler (1,265 events) and 1.19 for 
fluticasone/salmeterol (1,452 events). Ulunar Breezhaler prolonged time to first moderate or severe 
exacerbation with a 22% reduction in risk of an exacerbation (p<0.001) and prolonged time to first 
severe exacerbation with a 19% reduction in risk of an exacerbation (p=0.046). 
The incidence of pneumonia was 3.2% in the Ulunar Breezhaler arm compared to 4.8% in the 
fluticasone/salmeterol arm (p=0.017). Time to first pneumonia was prolonged with Ulunar Breezhaler 
compared to fluticasone/salmeterol (p=0.013). 
In another study comparing Ulunar Breezhaler (n=258) and fluticasone/salmeterol (n=264), for 
26 weeks , the number of moderate or severe COPD exacerbations/patient-years was 0.15 versus 0.18 
(18 events versus 22 events), respectively (p=0.512), and the number of all COPD 
exacerbations/patients-years (mild, moderate or severe) was 0.72 versus 0.94 (86 events versus 
113 events), respectively (p=0.098). 
Use of rescue medication 
Over 26 weeks, Ulunar Breezhaler statistically significantly reduced the use of rescue medication 
(salbutamol) by 0.96 puffs per day (p<0.001) compared to placebo, 0.54 puffs per day (p<0.001) 
compared to tiotropium and 0.39 puffs per day (p=0.019) compared to fluticasone/salmeterol. Over 
64 weeks, this reduction was 0.76 puffs per day (p<0.001) compared to tiotropium. Over 52 weeks, 
Ulunar Breezhaler reduced the use of rescue medication by 0.25 puffs per day compared to 
fluticasone/salmeterol (p<0.001). 
Exercise tolerance 
Ulunar Breezhaler, dosed in the morning, reduced dynamic hyperinflation and improved the length of 
time exercise could be maintained from the first dose onwards. On the first day of treatment, 
inspiratory capacity under exercise was significantly improved (LS mean treatment difference 250 ml, 
p<0.001) compared to placebo. After three weeks of treatment, the improvement in inspiratory 
capacity with Ulunar Breezhaler was greater (LS mean treatment difference 320 ml, p<0.001) and 
exercise endurance time increased (LS mean treatment difference 59.5 seconds, p=0.006) compared to 
placebo. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Ulunar Breezhaler in all subsets of the paediatric population in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Ulunar Breezhaler 
Following inhalation of Ulunar Breezhaler, the median time to reach peak plasma concentrations of 
indacaterol and glycopyrronium was approximately 15 minutes and 5 minutes, respectively. 
Based on the in vitro performance data, the dose of indacaterol delivered to the lung is expected to be 
similar for Ulunar Breezhaler and indacaterol monotherapy product. Steady-state exposure to 
indacaterol after Ulunar Breezhaler inhalation was either similar or slightly lower than systemic 
exposure after indacaterol monotherapy product inhalation. 
Following inhalation of Ulunar Breezhaler, the absolute bioavailability of indacaterol has been 
estimated to range from 61 to 85% of the delivered dose, and that of glycopyrronium was about 47% 
of the delivered dose. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steady-state exposure to glycopyrronium after Ulunar Breezhaler inhalation was similar to systemic 
exposure after glycopyrronium monotherapy product inhalation. 
Indacaterol 
Steady state concentrations of indacaterol were achieved within 12 to 15 days following once-daily 
administration. The mean accumulation ratio of indacaterol, i.e. AUC over the 24-h dosing interval on 
day 14 or day 15 compared to day 1, was in the range of 2.9 to 3.8 for once-daily inhaled doses 
between 60 micrograms and 480 micrograms (delivered dose). 
Glycopyrronium 
In patients with COPD, pharmacokinetic steady-state of glycopyrronium was reached within one week 
of the start of treatment. The steady-state mean peak and trough plasma concentrations of 
glycopyrronium at the recommended once-daily dosing regimen were 166 picograms/ml and 
8 picograms/ml, respectively. Steady-state exposure to glycopyrronium (AUC over the 24-hour dosing 
interval) was about 1.4- to 1.7-fold higher than after the first dose. 
Distribution 
Indacaterol 
After intravenous infusion the volume of distribution of indacaterol during the terminal elimination 
phase was 2557 litres indicating an extensive distribution. The in vitro human serum and plasma 
protein binding was about 95%. 
Glycopyrronium 
After intravenous dosing, the steady-state volume of distribution of glycopyrronium was 83 litres and 
the volume of distribution in the terminal phase was 376 litres. The apparent volume of distribution in 
the terminal phase following inhalation was almost 20-fold larger, which reflects the much slower 
elimination after inhalation. The in vitro human plasma protein binding of glycopyrronium was 38% 
to 41% at concentrations of 1 to 10 nanograms/ml. 
Biotransformation 
Indacaterol 
After oral administration of radiolabelled indacaterol in a human ADME (absorption, distribution, 
metabolism, excretion) study, unchanged indacaterol was the main component in serum, accounting 
for about one third of total drug-related AUC over 24 hours. A hydroxylated derivative was the most 
prominent metabolite in serum. Phenolic O-glucuronides of indacaterol and hydroxylated indacaterol 
were further prominent metabolites. A diastereomer of the hydroxylated derivative, a N-glucuronide of 
indacaterol, and C- and N-dealkylated products were further metabolites identified. 
In vitro the UGT1A1 isoform is a major contributor to the metabolic clearance of indacaterol. 
However, as shown in a clinical study in populations with different UGT1A1 genotypes, systemic 
exposure to indacaterol is not significantly affected by the UGT1A1-genotype. 
Oxidative metabolites were found in incubations with recombinant CYP1A1, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. 
CYP3A4 is concluded to be the predominant isoenzyme responsible for hydroxylation of indacaterol. 
In vitro investigations further indicated that indacaterol is a low affinity substrate for the efflux pump 
P-gp. 
Glycopyrronium 
In vitro metabolism studies showed consistent metabolic pathways for glycopyrronium bromide 
between animals and humans. Hydroxylation resulting in a variety of mono- and bis-hydroxylated 
metabolites and direct hydrolysis resulting in the formation of a carboxylic acid derivative (M9) were 
seen. In vivo, M9 is formed from the swallowed dose fraction of inhaled glycopyrronium bromide. 
Glucuronide and/or sulfate conjugates of glycopyrronium were found in urine of humans after 
repeated inhalation, accounting for about 3% of the delivered dose. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Multiple CYP isoenzymes contribute to the oxidative biotransformation of glycopyrronium. Inhibition 
or induction of the metabolism of glycopyrronium is unlikely to result in a relevant change of systemic 
exposure to the active substance. 
In vitro inhibition studies demonstrated that glycopyrronium bromide has no relevant capacity to 
inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 or CYP3A4/5, the 
efflux transporters MDR1, MRP2 or MXR, and the uptake transporters OCT1 or OCT2. In vitro 
enzyme induction studies did not indicate a clinically relevant induction by glycopyrronium bromide 
for any of the cytochrome P450 isoenzymes tested or for UGT1A1 and the transporters MDR1 and 
MRP2. 
Elimination 
Indacaterol 
In clinical studies, the amount of indacaterol excreted unchanged via urine was generally lower than 
2.5% of the delivered dose. Renal clearance of indacaterol was, on average, between 0.46 and 
1.2 litres/hour. When compared with the serum clearance of indacaterol of 23.3 litres/hour, it is 
evident that renal clearance plays a minor role (about 2 to 5% of systemic clearance) in the elimination 
of systemically available indacaterol. 
In a human ADME study, indacaterol given orally was excreted into human faeces primarily as 
unchanged parent substance (54% of the dose) and, to a lesser extent, hydroxylated indacaterol 
metabolites (23% of the dose). 
Indacaterol serum concentrations declined in a multi-phasic manner with an average terminal half-life 
ranging from 45.5 to 126 hours. The effective half-life, calculated from the accumulation of 
indacaterol after repeated dosing ranged from 40 to 52 hours which is consistent with the observed 
time-to-steady state of approximately 12-15 days. 
Glycopyrronium 
After intravenous administration of [3H]-labelled glycopyrronium bromide, the mean urinary excretion 
of radioactivity in 48 hours amounted to 85% of the dose. A further 5% of the dose was found in the 
bile. 
Renal elimination of parent drug accounts for about 60 to 70% of total clearance of systemically 
available glycopyrronium whereas non-renal clearance accounts for about 30 to 40%. Biliary 
clearance contributes to the non-renal clearance, but the majority of non-renal clearance is thought to 
be due to metabolism. 
Mean renal clearance of glycopyrronium following inhalation was in the range of 17.4 and 
24.4 litres/h. Active tubular secretion contributes to the renal elimination of glycopyrronium. Up to 
23% of the delivered dose was found in urine as parent drug. 
Glycopyrronium plasma concentrations declined in a multi-phasic manner. The mean terminal 
elimination half-life was much longer after inhalation (33 to 57 hours) than after intravenous 
(6.2 hours) and oral (2.8 hours) administration. The elimination pattern suggests sustained lung 
absorption and/or transfer of glycopyrronium into the systemic circulation at and beyond 24 h after 
inhalation. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Indacaterol 
Systemic exposure to indacaterol increased with increasing (delivered) dose (120 micrograms to 
480 micrograms) in a dose proportional manner. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glycopyrronium 
In COPD patients both systemic exposure and total urinary excretion of glycopyrronium at 
pharmacokinetic steady state increased about dose-proportionally over the (delivered) dose range of 44 
to 176 micrograms. 
Special populations 
Ulunar Breezhaler 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis of data in COPD patients after inhalation of Ulunar Breezhaler 
indicated no significant effect of age, gender and (lean body) weight on the systemic exposure to 
indacaterol and glycopyrronium. Lean body weight (which is a function of weight and height) was 
identified as a covariate. A negative correlation between systemic exposure and lean body weight (or 
body weight) was observed; however, no dose adjustment is recommended due to the magnitude of the 
change or the predictive precision of lean body weight. 
Smoking status and baseline FEV1 had no apparent effect on systemic exposure to indacaterol and 
glycopyrronium after inhalation of Ulunar Breezhaler. 
Indacaterol 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that there is no clinically relevant effect of age (adults 
up to 88 years), sex, weight (32-168 kg) or race on the pharmacokinetics of indacaterol. It did not 
suggest any difference between ethnic subgroups in this population. 
Glycopyrronium 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis of data in COPD patients identified body weight and age as 
factors contributing to inter-patient variability in systemic exposure. Glycopyrronium at the 
recommended dose can be safely used in all age and body weight groups. 
Gender, smoking status and baseline FEV1 had no apparent effect on systemic exposure. 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
Ulunar Breezhaler: 
Based on the clinical pharmacokinetic characteristics of its monotherapy components, Ulunar 
Breezhaler can be used at the recommended dose in patients with mild and moderate hepatic 
impairment. No data are available for subjects with severe hepatic impairment. 
Indacaterol: 
Patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment showed no relevant changes in C max or AUC of 
indacaterol, nor did protein binding differ between mild and moderate hepatic impaired subjects and 
their healthy controls. Studies in subjects with severe hepatic impairment were not performed. 
Glycopyrronium: 
Clinical studies have not been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment. Glycopyrronium is 
cleared predominantly from the systemic circulation by renal excretion. Impairment of the hepatic 
metabolism of glycopyrronium is not thought to result in a clinically relevant increase of systemic 
exposure. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with renal impairment 
Ulunar Breezhaler: 
Based on the clinical pharmacokinetic characteristics of its monotherapy components, Ulunar 
Breezhaler can be used at the recommended dose in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. 
In patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis, Ulunar 
Breezhaler should be used only if the expected benefit outweighs the potential risk. 
Indacaterol: 
Due to the very low contribution of the urinary pathway to total body elimination of indacaterol 
maleate, a study in renal impaired subjects was not performed. 
Glycopyrronium: 
Renal impairment has an impact on the systemic exposure to glycopyrronium bromide. A moderate 
mean increase in total systemic exposure (AUClast) of up to 1.4-fold was seen in subjects with mild and 
moderate renal impairment and up to 2.2-fold in subjects with severe renal impairment and end-stage 
renal disease. In COPD patients with mild and moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular 
filtration rate, eGFR ≥30 ml/min/1.73 m2) glycopyrronium bromide can be used at the recommended 
dose. 
Ethnicity 
Ulunar Breezhaler: 
There were no major differences in total systemic exposure (AUC) for both compounds between 
Japanese and Caucasian subjects. Insufficient pharmacokinetic data is available for other ethnicities or 
races. 
Indacaterol: 
No difference between ethnic subgroups was identified. Limited treatment experience is available for 
the black population. 
Glycopyrronium: 
There were no major differences in total systemic exposure (AUC) between Japanese and Caucasian 
subjects. Insufficient pharmacokinetic data is available for other ethnicities or races. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Ulunar Breezhaler 
Pre-clinical studies included in vitro and in vivo safety pharmacology assessments, repeated-dose 
inhalation toxicity studies in rats and dogs and an inhalation embryo-foetal development study in rats. 
Increased heart rates were apparent in dogs at all doses of Ulunar Breezhaler and each monotherapy 
component. The effects on heart rate for Ulunar Breezhaler increased in magnitude and duration when 
compared with the changes observed for each component alone consistent with an additive response. 
Shortening of electrocardiograph intervals and decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressure were 
also apparent. Indacaterol administered to dogs alone or in Ulunar Breezhaler was associated with a 
similar incidence and severity of myocardial lesions. Systemic exposures (AUC) at the 
no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) for myocardial lesions were 64- and 59-fold higher than in 
humans, for each component respectively. 
No effects on the embryo or foetus were seen at any dose level of Ulunar Breezhaler during an 
embryo-foetal development study in rats. Systemic exposures (AUC) at the 
no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) were 79- and 126-fold higher than in humans, for 
indacaterol and glycopyrronium respectively. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indacaterol 
Effects on the cardiovascular system attributable to the beta2-agonistic properties of indacaterol 
included tachycardia, arrhythmias and myocardial lesions in dogs. Mild irritancy of the nasal cavity 
and larynx were seen in rodents. All these findings occurred at exposures sufficiently in excess of 
those anticipated in humans. 
Although indacaterol did not affect general reproductive performance in a rat fertility study, a decrease 
in the number of pregnant F1 offspring was observed in the peri- and post-developmental rat study at 
an exposure 14-fold higher than in humans treated with indacaterol. Indacaterol and its metabolites 
transferred rapidly into the milk of lactating rats.Indacaterol was not embryotoxic or teratogenic in rats 
or rabbits. 
Genotoxicity studies did not reveal any mutagenic or clastogenic potential. Carcinogenicity was 
assessed in a two-year rat study and a six-month transgenic mouse study. Increased incidences of 
benign ovarian leiomyoma and focal hyperplasia of ovarian smooth muscle in rats were consistent 
with similar findings reported for other beta2-adrenergic agonists. No evidence of carcinogenicity was 
seen in mice. Systemic exposures (AUC) in rats and mice at the no-observed-adverse-effect levels in 
these studies were at least 7- and 49-fold higher, respectively, than in humans treated with indacaterol 
once a day at the maximum recommended therapeutic dose. 
Glycopyrronium 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, toxicity to reproduction 
and development. 
Effects attributable to the muscarinic receptor antagonist properties of glycopyrronium bromide 
included mild to moderate increases in heart rate in dogs, lens opacities in rats and, reversible changes 
associated with reduced glandular secretions in rats and dogs. Mild irritancy or adaptive changes in the 
respiratory tract were seen in rats. All these findings occurred at exposures sufficiently in excess of 
those anticipated in humans. 
Glycopyrronium was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits following inhalation administration. Fertility 
and pre- and post-natal development were not affected in rats. Glycopyrronium bromide and its 
metabolites did not significantly cross the placental barrier of pregnant mice, rabbits and dogs. 
Glycopyrronium bromide (including its metabolites) was excreted into the milk of lactating rats and 
reached up to 10-fold higher concentrations in the milk than in the blood of the dam. 
Genotoxicity studies did not reveal any mutagenic or clastogenic potential for glycopyrronium 
bromide. Carcinogenicity studies in transgenic mice using oral administration and in rats using 
inhalation administration revealed no evidence of carcinogenicity at systemic exposures (AUC) of 
approximately 53-fold higher in mice and 75-fold higher in rats than the maximum recommended dose 
once daily for humans. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule content 
Lactose monohydrate 
Magnesium stearate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
The capsules must always be stored in the original blister to protect from moisture and only removed 
immediately before use. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Inhaler body and cap are made from acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, push buttons are made from 
methyl metacrylate acrylonitrile butadiene styrene. Needles and springs are made from stainless steel. 
PA/Alu/PVC – Alu perforated unit-dose blister. Each blister contains either 6 or 10 hard capsules. 
Single pack containing 6x1, 10x1, 12x1, 30x1 or 90x1 hard capsules, together with 1 inhaler. 
Multipacks containing 96 (4 packs of 24x1) hard capsules and 4 inhalers. 
Multipacks containing 150 (15 packs of 10x1) hard capsules and 15 inhalers. 
Multipacks containing 150 (25 packs of 6x1) hard capsules and 25 inhalers. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The inhaler provided with each new prescription should be used. The inhaler in each pack should be 
disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for handling and use 
Please read the full Instructions for Use before using the Ulunar Breezhaler. 
Insert 
Pierce and release 
Inhale deeply 
Check capsule is empty 
1 
2 
3 
Check 
Step 1a: 
Pull off cap 
Step 1b: 
Open inhaler 
Step 2a: 
Pierce capsule once 
Hold the inhaler upright. 
Pierce capsule by firmly 
pressing both side 
buttons at the same time. 
You should hear a noise 
as the capsule is pierced. 
Only pierce the capsule 
once. 
Step 3a: 
Breathe out fully 
Do not blow into the 
inhaler. 
Check capsule is empty 
Open the inhaler to see if 
any powder is left in the 
capsule. 
If there is powder left in 
the capsule: 
  Close the inhaler. 
  Repeat steps 3a to 3c. 
Powder 
remaining 
Empty 
Step 3b: 
Inhale medicine deeply 
Hold the inhaler as 
shown in the picture. 
Place the mouthpiece in 
your mouth and close 
your lips firmly around 
it. 
Do not press the side 
buttons. 
Step 2b: 
Release side buttons 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Step 1c: 
Remove capsule 
Separate one of the 
blisters from the blister 
card. 
Peel open the blister and 
remove the capsule. 
Do not push the capsule 
through the foil. 
Do not swallow the 
capsule. 
Step 1d: 
Insert capsule 
Never place a capsule 
directly into the 
mouthpiece. 
Step 1e: 
Close inhaler 
Breathe in quickly and as 
deeply as you can. 
During inhalation you 
will hear a whirring 
noise. 
You may taste the 
medicine as you inhale. 
Step 3c: 
Hold breath 
Hold your breath for up 
to 5 seconds. 
Remove empty capsule 
Put the empty capsule in 
your household waste. 
Close the inhaler and 
replace the cap. 
Important Information 
  Ulunar Breezhaler 
capsules must always be 
stored in the blister card 
and only removed 
immediately before use. 
  Do not push the capsule 
through the foil to 
remove it from the 
blister. 
  Do not swallow the 
capsule. 
  Do not use the Ulunar 
Breezhaler capsules with 
any other inhaler. 
  Do not use the Ulunar 
Breezhaler inhaler to 
take any other capsule 
medicine. 
  Never place the capsule 
into your mouth or the 
mouthpiece of the 
inhaler. 
  Do not press the side 
buttons more than once. 
  Do not blow into the 
mouthpiece. 
  Do not press the side 
buttons while inhaling 
through the mouthpiece. 
  Do not handle capsules 
with wet hands. 
  Never wash your inhaler 
with water. 
21 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Ulunar Breezhaler Inhaler pack contains: 
  One Ulunar Breezhaler inhaler 
  One or more blister cards, each containing either 
6 or 10 Ulunar Breezhaler capsules to be used in 
the inhaler 
Mouthpiece 
Capsule 
chamber 
Cap 
Side 
buttons 
Screen 
Base  
Inhaler 
Inhaler base 
Blister card 
Blister 
Cleaning the inhaler 
Wipe the mouthpiece 
inside and outside with a 
clean, dry, lint-free cloth to 
remove any powder 
residue. Keep the inhaler 
dry. Never wash your 
inhaler with water. 
Disposing of the inhaler 
after use 
Each inhaler should be 
disposed of after all 
capsules have been used. 
Ask your pharmacist how 
to dispose of medicines 
and inhalers that are no 
longer required. 
Frequently Asked 
Questions 
Why didn’t the inhaler 
make a noise when I 
inhaled? 
The capsule may be stuck 
in the capsule chamber. If 
this happens, carefully 
loosen the capsule by 
tapping the base of the 
inhaler. Inhale the 
medicine again by 
repeating steps 3a to 3c. 
What should I do if there 
is powder left inside the 
capsule? 
You have not received 
enough of your medicine. 
Close the inhaler and 
repeat steps 3a to 3c. 
I coughed after inhaling 
– does this matter? 
This may happen. As long 
as the capsule is empty 
you have received enough 
of your medicine. 
I felt small pieces of the 
capsule on my tongue – 
does this matter? 
This can happen. It is not 
harmful. The chances of 
the capsule breaking into 
small pieces will be 
increased if the capsule is 
pierced more than once. 
22 
           
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/917/001-008 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 23 April 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 15 January 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Novartis Farmacéutica SA 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ulunar Breezhaler 85 micrograms/43 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 110 microgram indacaterol and 50 microgram glycopyrronium. The amount of 
indacaterol and glycopyrronium inhaled is 85 micrograms (equivalent to 110 micrograms of 
indacaterol maleate) and 43 micrograms (equivalent to 54 micrograms of glycopyrronium bromide), 
respectively. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: lactose and magnesium stearate. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule 
6 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
10 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
12 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
30 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
90 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For use only with the inhaler provided in the pack. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use 
Treatment for 90 days [90 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler only]. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store the capsules in the original blister in order to protect from moisture and do not remove until 
immediately before use. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/917/001 
EU/1/14/917/007 
EU/1/14/917/002 
EU/1/14/917/003 
EU/1/13/917/004 
6 capsules + 1 inhaler 
10 capsules + 1 inhaler 
12 capsules + 1 inhaler 
30 capsules + 1 inhaler 
90 capsules + 1 inhaler 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Ulunar Breezhaler 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ulunar Breezhaler 85 micrograms/43 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 110 microgram indacaterol and 50 microgram glycopyrronium. The amount of 
indacaterol and glycopyrronium inhaled is 85 micrograms (equivalent to 110 micrograms of 
indacaterol maleate) and 43 micrograms (equivalent to 54 micrograms of glycopyrronium bromide), 
respectively. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: lactose and magnesium stearate. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule 
Multipack: 96 (4 packs of 24 x 1) capsules + 4 inhalers. 
Multipack: 150 (15 packs of 10 x 1) capsules + 15 inhalers. 
Multipack: 150 (25 packs of 6 x 1) capsules + 25 inhalers. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For use only with the inhaler provided in the pack. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store the capsules in the original blister in order to protect from moisture and do not remove until 
immediately before use. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/917/005 
EU/1/14/917/008 
EU/1/14/917/006 
Multipack comprising 4 packs (24 capsules + 1 inhaler) 
Multipack comprising 15 packs (10 capsules + 1 inhaler) 
Multipack comprising 25 packs (6 capsules + 1 inhaler) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Ulunar Breezhaler 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ulunar Breezhaler 85 micrograms/43 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 110 microgram indacaterol and 50 microgram glycopyrronium. The amount of 
indacaterol and glycopyrronium inhaled is 85 micrograms (equivalent to 110 micrograms of 
indacaterol maleate) and 43 micrograms (equivalent to 54 micrograms of glycopyrronium bromide), 
respectively. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: lactose and magnesium stearate. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule 
24 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
10 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
6 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For use only with the inhaler provided in the pack. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store the capsules in the original blister in order to protect from moisture and do not remove until 
immediately before use. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/917/005 
EU/1/14/917/008 
EU/1/14/917/006 
Multipack comprising 4 packs (24 capsules + 1 inhaler) 
Multipack comprising 15 packs (10 capsules + 1 inhaler) 
Multipack comprising 25 packs (6 capsules + 1 inhaler) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Ulunar Breezhaler 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
36 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER LID OF OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK AND OF INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF 
MULTIPACK 
1. 
OTHER 
1 
2 
3 
Check  
Insert 
Pierce and release 
Inhale deeply 
Check capsule is empty 
Read the leaflet before use. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ulunar Breezhaler 85 mcg/43 mcg inhalation powder 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Inhalation use only 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Ulunar Breezhaler 85 micrograms/43 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ulunar Breezhaler is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Ulunar Breezhaler 
How to use Ulunar Breezhaler 
3. 
Possible side effects 
4. 
How to store Ulunar Breezhaler 
5. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
6. 
Instructions for use of Ulunar Breezhaler inhaler 
1.  What Ulunar Breezhaler is and what it is used for 
What Ulunar Breezhaler is 
This medicine contains two active substances called indacaterol and glycopyrronium. These belong to 
a group of medicines called bronchodilators. 
What Ulunar Breezhaler is used for 
This medicine is used to make breathing easier for adult patients who have breathing difficulties due to 
a lung disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In COPD the muscles around the 
airways tighten. This makes breathing difficult. This medicine blocks the tightening of these muscles 
in the lungs, making it easier for air to get in and out of the lungs. 
If you use this medicine once a day, it will help to reduce the effects of COPD on your everyday life. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Ulunar Breezhaler 
Do not use Ulunar Breezhaler 
- 
if you are allergic to indacaterol or glycopyrronium or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Ulunar Breezhaler if any of the following 
applies to you: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
you have asthma - this medicine should not be used as a treatment for asthma. 
you have heart problems. 
you have seizure or fits. 
you have thyroid gland problems (thyrotoxicosis). 
you have diabetes. 
you are using any medicines for your lung disease which contain active substances similar 
(same class) to those in Ulunar Breezhaler (see section “Other medicines and Ulunar 
Breezhaler”). 
you have kidney problems. 
you have severe liver problems. 
you have an eye problem called narrow-angle glaucoma. 
you have difficulty passing urine. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If any of the above applies to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse 
before using this medicine. 
During treatment with Ulunar Breezhaler 
- 
Stop using this medicine and seek medical help immediately if you experience any of the 
following: 
- 
eye pain or discomfort, temporary blurring of vision, visual halos or coloured images in 
association with red eyes – these may be signs of an acute attack of narrow-angle 
glaucoma. 
difficulty breathing or swallowing, swelling of the tongue, lips or face, skin rash, itching 
and hives (signs of an allergic reaction). 
tightness of the chest, coughing, wheezing or breathlessness immediately after using this 
medicine – these may be signs of a condition called paradoxical bronchospasm. 
Tell your doctor immediately if your COPD symptoms such as breathlessness, wheezing or 
cough do not improve or get worse. 
- 
- 
- 
Ulunar Breezhaler is used as an ongoing treatment for your COPD. Do not use this medicine to treat a 
sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children or adolescents below the age of 18 years. This is because it has 
not been studied in this age group. 
Other medicines and Ulunar Breezhaler 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
In particular, please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using: 
- 
- 
any medicines that may be similar to Ulunar Breezhaler (contain similar active substances). 
medicines called beta blockers that may be used for high blood pressure or other heart problems 
(such as propranolol), or for an eye problem called glaucoma (such as timolol). 
medicines that lower the amount of potassium in your blood. These include: 
- 
- 
- 
steroids (such as prednisolone), 
diuretics (water tablets) used for high blood pressure (such as hydrochlorothiazide), 
medicines for breathing problems (such as theophylline). 
- 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
There are no data on the use of this medicine in pregnant women and it is not known whether the 
active substances of this medicine pass into human milk. Indacaterol, one of the active substances in 
Ulunar Breezhaler, may prevent labour due to its effect on the uterus. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. You should not use Ulunar 
Breezhaler unless your doctor tells you to do so. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving and using machines 
It is unlikely that this medicine will affect your ability to drive and use machines. However, this 
medicine may cause dizziness (see section 4). If you feel dizzy while taking this medicine, do not 
drive or use machines. 
Ulunar Breezhaler contains lactose 
This medicine contains lactose (23.5 mg per capsule). If you have been told by your doctor that you 
have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before using this medicine. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using any medicine. 
3. 
How to use Ulunar Breezhaler 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How much Ulunar Breezhaler to use 
The usual dose is to inhale the content of one capsule each day. 
You only need to inhale once a day because the effect of this medicine lasts for 24 hours. Do not use 
more than your doctor tells you to use. 
Elderly (age 75 years and over) 
You can use this medicine if you are aged 75 years and over at the same dose as for other adults. 
When to inhale Ulunar Breezhaler 
Use this medicine at the same time each day. This will also help you to remember to use it. 
You can inhale Ulunar Breezhaler any time before or after food or drink. 
How to inhale Ulunar Breezhaler 
- 
- 
Ulunar Breezhaler is for inhalation use. 
In this pack, you will find an inhaler and capsules (in blisters) that contain the medicine as 
inhalation powder. Only use the capsules with the inhaler provided in this pack (Ulunar 
Breezhaler inhaler). The capsules should remain in the blister until you need to use them. 
Peel the backing away from the blister to open it - do not push the capsule through the foil. 
When you start a new pack, use the new Ulunar Breezhaler inhaler that is supplied in the pack. 
Dispose of the inhaler in each pack after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
Do not swallow the capsules. 
Please read the instructions at the end of this leaflet for more information on how to use the 
inhaler. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you use more Ulunar Breezhaler than you should 
If you have inhaled too much of this medicine or if someone else accidentally uses your capsules, you 
must immediately either tell your doctor or go to the nearest emergency unit. Show the pack of Ulunar 
Breezhaler. Medical attention may be needed. You may notice that your heart is beating faster than 
usual, or you may have a headache, feel drowsy, feel nauseous or have to vomit, or you may notice 
visual disturbances, feel constipated or have difficulty when passing urine. 
If you forget to use Ulunar Breezhaler 
If you forget to inhale a dose at the usual time, inhale one as soon as possible that day. Then, inhale 
the next dose as usual the next day. Do not inhale more than one dose on the same day. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How long to continue your treatment with Ulunar Breezhaler 
 
 
Keep using Ulunar Breezhaler for as long as your doctor tells you. 
COPD is a long-term disease and you should use Ulunar Breezhaler every day and not only 
when you have breathing problems or other symptoms of COPD. 
If you have questions about how long to continue your treatment with this medicine, talk to your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
If you have further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects may be serious: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
 
difficulty breathing or swallowing, swelling of tongue, lips or face, urticaria, skin rash – these 
may be signs of an allergic reaction. 
feeling tired or very thirsty, having an increased appetite without gaining weight and passing 
more urine than usual – these may be signs of high level of sugar in the blood (hyperglycaemia). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
 
crushing chest pain with increased sweating – this may be a serious heart problem (ischaemic 
heart disease). 
swelling mainly of the tongue, lips, face or throat (possible signs of angioedema). 
difficulty breathing with wheezing or coughing. 
eye pain or discomfort, temporary blurring of vision, visual halos or coloured images in 
association with red eyes – these may be signs of glaucoma. 
irregular heartbeat. 
If you get any of these serious side effects, seek medical help immediately. 
Other side effects may include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
 
blocked nose, sneezing, cough, headache with or without fever - these may be signs of an upper 
respiratory tract infection. 
Common 
 
 
 
combination of sore throat and runny nose - these may be signs of nasopharyngitis. 
painful and frequent urination – these may be signs of a urinary tract infection called cystitis. 
feeling of pressure or pain in the cheeks and forehead – these may be signs of inflammation of 
the sinuses called sinusitis. 
runny or stuffy nose. 
dizziness. 
headache. 
cough. 
sore throat. 
upset stomach, indigestion. 
dental caries. 
difficulty and pain when passing urine – these may be signs of a bladder obstruction or urinary 
retention. 
fever. 
chest pain. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
difficulty sleeping. 
fast heart beat. 
voice alteration (hoarseness). 
palpitations – signs of abnormal heart beat. 
nose bleeds. 
diarrhoea or stomach ache. 
dry mouth. 
itching or rash. 
pain that affects the muscles, ligaments, tendons, joints and bones. 
muscle spasm. 
muscle pain, aches or tenderness. 
pain in arms or legs. 
swollen hands, ankles and feet. 
tiredness. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people) 
 
tingling or numbness. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Ulunar Breezhaler 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store the capsules in the original blister in order to protect from moisture and do not remove until 
immediately before use. 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the pack is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ulunar Breezhaler contains 
- 
The active substances are indacaterol (as maleate) and glycopyrronium bromide. Each capsule 
contains 143 micrograms of indacaterol maleate equivalent to 110 micrograms of indacaterol 
and 63 micrograms of glycopyrronium bromide equivalent to 50 micrograms of 
glycopyrronium. The delivered dose (the dose that leaves the mouthpiece of the inhaler) is 
equivalent to 85 micrograms of indacaterol (equivalent to 110 micrograms of indacaterol 
maleate) and 43 micrograms of glycopyrronium (equivalent to 54 micrograms of 
glycopyrronium bromide). 
The other ingredients of the inhalation powder are lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate 
(see section 2 under “Ulunar Breezhaler contains lactose”). 
- 
What Ulunar Breezhaler looks like and contents of the pack 
Ulunar Breezhaler 85 micrograms/43 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules are transparent and 
yellow and contain a white to almost white powder. They have the product code “IGP110.50” printed 
in blue under two blue bars on the body and the company logo (
) printed in black on the cap. 
In this pack, you will find a device called an inhaler together with capsules in blister strips. Each 
blister contains either 6 or 10 hard capsules. 
The following pack sizes are available: 
Single pack containing 6x1, 10x1, 12x1, 30x1 or 90x1 hard capsules, together with 1 inhaler. 
Multipacks containing 96 (4 packs of 24x1) hard capsules and 4 inhalers. 
Multipacks containing 150 (15 packs of 10x1) hard capsules and 15 inhalers. 
Multipacks containing 150 (25 packs of 6x1) hard capsules and 25 inhalers. 
Not all pack sizes may be available in your country. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Novartis Farmacéutica SA 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Deutschland 
APONTIS PHARMA Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel: +49 2173 8955 4949 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos ROVI, S.A. 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please read the full Instructions for Use before using the Ulunar Breezhaler. 
Insert 
Pierce and release 
Inhale deeply 
Check capsule is empty 
1 
2 
3 
Check 
Step 1a: 
Pull off cap 
Step 1b: 
Open inhaler 
Step 2a: 
Pierce capsule once 
Hold the inhaler upright. 
Pierce capsule by firmly 
pressing both side 
buttons at the same time. 
You should hear a noise 
as the capsule is pierced. 
Only pierce the capsule 
once. 
Step 3a: 
Breathe out fully 
Do not blow into the 
inhaler. 
Check capsule is empty 
Open the inhaler to see if 
any powder is left in the 
capsule. 
If there is powder left in 
the capsule: 
  Close the inhaler. 
  Repeat steps 3a to 3c. 
Powder 
remaining 
Empty 
Step 3b: 
Inhale medicine deeply 
Hold the inhaler as 
shown in the picture. 
Place the mouthpiece in 
your mouth and close 
your lips firmly around 
it. 
Do not press the side 
buttons. 
Step 2b: 
Release side buttons 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1c: 
Remove capsule 
Separate one of the 
blisters from the blister 
card. 
Peel open the blister and 
remove the capsule. 
Do not push the capsule 
through the foil. 
Do not swallow the 
capsule. 
Step 1d: 
Insert capsule 
Never place a capsule 
directly into the 
mouthpiece. 
Step 1e: 
Close inhaler 
Breathe in quickly and as 
deeply as you can. 
During inhalation you 
will hear a whirring 
noise. 
You may taste the 
medicine as you inhale. 
Step 3c: 
Hold breath 
Hold your breath for up 
to 5 seconds. 
Remove empty capsule 
Put the empty capsule in 
your household waste. 
Close the inhaler and 
replace the cap. 
Important Information 
  Ulunar Breezhaler 
capsules must always be 
stored in the blister card 
and only removed 
immediately before use. 
  Do not push the capsule 
through the foil to 
remove it from the 
blister. 
  Do not swallow the 
capsule. 
  Do not use the Ulunar 
Breezhaler capsules with 
any other inhaler. 
  Do not use the Ulunar 
Breezhaler inhaler to 
take any other capsule 
medicine. 
  Never place the capsule 
into your mouth or the 
mouthpiece of the 
inhaler. 
  Do not press the side 
buttons more than once. 
  Do not blow into the 
mouthpiece. 
  Do not press the side 
buttons while inhaling 
through the mouthpiece. 
  Do not handle capsules 
with wet hands. 
  Never wash your inhaler 
with water. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Ulunar Breezhaler Inhaler pack contains: 
  One Ulunar Breezhaler inhaler 
  One or more blister cards, each containing either 
6 or 10 Ulunar Breezhaler capsules to be used in 
the inhaler 
Capsule 
chamber 
Mouthpiece 
Screen 
Blister 
Inhaler base 
Blister card 
Cap 
Side 
buttons 
Base 
Inhaler 
Cleaning the inhaler 
Wipe the mouthpiece 
inside and outside with a 
clean, dry, lint-free cloth to 
remove any powder 
residue. Keep the inhaler 
dry. Never wash your 
inhaler with water. 
Disposing of the inhaler 
after use 
Each inhaler should be 
disposed of after all 
capsules have been used. 
Ask your pharmacist how 
to dispose of medicines 
and inhalers that are no 
longer required. 
Frequently Asked 
Questions 
Why didn’t the inhaler 
make a noise when I 
inhaled? 
The capsule may be stuck 
in the capsule chamber. If 
this happens, carefully 
loosen the capsule by 
tapping the base of the 
inhaler. Inhale the 
medicine again by 
repeating steps 3a to 3c. 
What should I do if there 
is powder left inside the 
capsule? 
You have not received 
enough of your medicine. 
Close the inhaler and 
repeat steps 3a to 3c. 
I coughed after inhaling 
– does this matter? 
This may happen. As long 
as the capsule is empty 
you have received enough 
of your medicine. 
I felt small pieces of the 
capsule on my tongue – 
does this matter? 
This can happen. It is not 
harmful. The chances of 
the capsule breaking into 
small pieces will be 
increased if the capsule is 
pierced more than once. 
50 
 
             
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
