ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Uplizna 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 100 mg of inebilizumab in 10 mL at a concentration of 10 mg/mL. The final 
concentration after dilution is 1.0 mg/mL. 
Inebilizumab is a humanised monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese hamster ovary cell line by 
recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipient with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 16.1 mg of sodium per vial. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) 
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow solution. The solution has a pH of 
approximately 6.0 and an osmolality of approximately 280 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Uplizna is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with neuromyelitis optica 
spectrum disorders (NMOSD) who are anti-aquaporin-4 immunoglobulin G (AQP4-IgG) seropositive 
(see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Treatment should be initiated under the supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of 
NMOSD and with access to appropriate medical support to manage potential severe reactions such as 
serious infusion-related reactions.  
The patient should be monitored for infusion reactions during and for at least one hour after the 
completion of the infusion (see section 4.4). 
Assessments prior to first dose of inebilizumab 
Prior to initiating treatment, testing should be performed for  
• 
Quantitative serum immunoglobulins, B-cell count, and complete blood count (CBC), including 
differentials (see sections 4.3 and 4.4) 
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) screening (see sections 4.3 and 4.4) 
• 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) screening and treatment started prior to initiating inebilizumab 
treatment (see section 4.4) 
Evaluate for active tuberculosis and test for latent infection (see sections 4.3 and 4.4) 
All immunisations should be administered according to immunisation guidelines at least 4 weeks prior 
to initiation of inebilizumab for live or live-attenuated vaccines (see section 4.4). 
If loss of efficacy is thought to be caused by immunogenicity, the physician should follow B-cell 
counts as a direct measure of clinical impact (see section 5.1). 
Posology 
Initial doses 
The recommended loading dose is 300 mg (3 vials of 100 mg) intravenous infusion followed 2 weeks 
later by a second 300 mg intravenous infusion. 
Maintenance doses 
The recommended maintenance dose is 300 mg intravenous infusion every 6 months. Inebilizumab is 
for chronic treatment. 
Delayed or missed doses 
If an infusion of inebilizumab is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible and not delayed 
until the next planned dose. 
Premedication for infusion-related reactions 
Infection assessment 
Prior to every infusion of inebilizumab, it should be determined whether there is a clinically 
significant infection. In case of infection, infusion of inebilizumab should be delayed until the 
infection resolves. 
Required premedication 
Premedication with a corticosteroid (e.g. methylprednisolone 80-125 mg intravenous or equivalent) 
should be administered approximately 30 minutes prior to each inebilizumab infusion; and an 
antihistamine (e.g. diphenhydramine 25-50 mg orally or equivalent) and an anti-pyretic (e.g. 
paracetamol 500-650 mg orally or equivalent) approximately 30-60 minutes prior to each inebilizumab 
infusion (see section 4.4). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Inebilizumab has been administered to 6 elderly patients (≥65 years of age) in clinical studies. Based 
on the limited data available, no dose adjustment is considered necessary in patients over 65 years old 
(see section 5.2). 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Inebilizumab has not been studied in patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment. However, dose 
adjustment based on renal or hepatic function is not warranted because immunoglobulin (Ig) G 
monoclonal antibodies are not primarily cleared via renal or hepatic pathways (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of inebilizumab in children and adolescents aged 0 to 18 years has not yet 
been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
For intravenous use. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vials should not be shaken. 
Vials should be stored upright. 
The prepared solution should be administered intravenously via an infusion pump at an increasing rate 
to completion (approximately 90 minutes) through an intravenous line containing a sterile, 
low protein-binding 0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line filter according to the schedule in Table 1. 
Table 1. Recommended infusion rate for administration when diluted in a 250 mL intravenous 
bag 
Elapsed time (minutes) 
0-30 
31-60 
61-completion 
Infusion rate (mL/hour) 
42 
125 
333 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance(s) or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
Severe active infection, including active chronic infection such as hepatitis B  
Active or untreated latent tuberculosis 
History of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Severely immunocompromised state 
Active malignancies 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infusion-related reactions and hypersensitivity  
Inebilizumab can cause infusion-related reactions and hypersensitivity reactions, which can include 
headache, nausea, somnolence, dyspnoea, fever, myalgia, rash, or other symptoms. Infusion-related 
reactions were most common with the first infusion, but were observed during subsequent infusions. 
Although rare, serious infusion reactions did occur in clinical trials of inebilizumab (see section 4.8).  
Before the infusion  
Premedication with a corticosteroid (e.g., methylprednisolone 80-125 mg intravenous or equivalent), 
an antihistamine (e.g., diphenhydramine 25-50 mg orally or equivalent), and an anti-pyretic (e.g., 
paracetamol 500-650 mg orally or equivalent) should be administered (see section 4.2). A 2-week 
course of oral corticosteroids (plus a 1-week taper) was administered at the start of inebilizumab 
treatment in the pivotal study (see section 5.1). 
During the infusion  
The patient should be monitored for infusion-related reactions. Management recommendations for 
infusion reactions depend on the type and severity of the reaction. For life-threatening infusion 
reactions, treatment should be stopped immediately and permanently, and appropriate supportive 
treatment should be administered. For less severe infusion reactions, management may involve 
temporarily stopping the infusion, reducing the infusion rate, and/or administering symptomatic 
treatment.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After the infusion  
The patient should be monitored for infusion reactions for at least one hour after the completion of the 
infusion. 
Infections 
Inebilizumab causes reduction in peripheral blood lymphocyte count and Ig levels consistent with the 
mechanism of action of B-cell depletion. Reduction of neutrophil counts were also reported. 
Therefore, inebilizumab may increase the susceptibility to infections (see section 4.8).  
A recent (i.e. within 6 months) complete blood cell count including differentials and immunoglobulins 
should be obtained before initiation of inebilizumab. Assessments of CBC including differentials and 
immunoglobulins are also recommended periodically during treatment and after discontinuation of 
treatment until B-cell repletion. Prior to every infusion of inebilizumab, it should be determined 
whether there is a clinically significant infection. In case of infection, infusion of inebilizumab should 
be delayed until the infection resolves. Patients should be instructed to promptly report symptoms of 
infection to their physician. Treatment discontinuation should be considered if a patient develops a 
serious opportunistic infection or recurrent infections if Ig levels indicate immune compromise. 
The most common infections reported by inebilizumab-treated NMOSD patients across the 
randomised controlled period (RCP) and the open-label period (OLP) included urinary tract infection 
(26.2%), nasopharyngitis (20.9%), upper respiratory tract infection (15.6%), influenza (8.9%), and 
bronchitis (6.7%).  
Hepatitis B virus reactivation 
Risk of HBV reactivation has been observed with other B-cell -depleting antibodies. Patients with 
chronic HBV were excluded from clinical trials with inebilizumab. HBV screening should be 
performed in all patients before initiation of treatment with inebilizumab. Inebilizumab should not be 
administered to patients with active hepatitis due to HBV who are positive for hepatitis B surface 
antigen (HBsAg) or hepatitis B core antibody (HBcAb). Patients who are chronic carriers of HBV 
[HBsAg+] should consult a liver disease expert before starting and during treatment (see section 4.3). 
Hepatitis C virus 
Patients positive for HCV were excluded from clinical trials with inebilizumab. Baseline screening for 
HCV is required to detect and start treatment prior to initiating inebilizumab treatment. 
Tuberculosis 
Prior to initiating inebilizumab, patients should be evaluated for active tuberculosis and tested for 
latent infection. For patients with active tuberculosis or positive tuberculosis screening without a 
history of appropriate treatment, infectious disease experts should be consulted before starting 
treatment with inebilizumab. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
PML is an opportunistic viral infection of the brain caused by the John Cunningham virus (JCV) that 
typically occurs in patients who are immunocompromised, and that may lead to death or severe 
disability. JCV infection resulting in PML has been observed in patients treated with other 
B-cell-depleting antibodies. 
In inebilizumab clinical trials, one subject died following the development of new brain lesions for 
which a definitive diagnosis could not be established. However, the differential diagnosis included 
atypical NMOSD attack, PML, or acute disseminated encephalomyelitis. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Physicians should be vigilant for clinical symptoms or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) findings 
that may be suggestive of PML. MRI findings may be apparent before clinical signs or symptoms. 
Typical symptoms associated with PML are diverse, progress over days to weeks, and include 
progressive weakness on one side of the body or clumsiness of limbs, disturbance of vision, and 
changes in thinking, memory, and orientation leading to confusion and personality changes. 
At the first sign or symptom suggestive of PML, treatment with inebilizumab should be suspended 
until PML has been excluded. Further evaluation, including consultation with a neurologist, MRI scan 
preferably with contrast, cerebrospinal fluid testing for JC viral DNA, and repeat neurological 
assessments, should be considered. If confirmed, treatment with inebilizumab should be discontinued. 
Late neutropenia 
Cases of late onset of neutropenia have been reported (see section 4.8). Although some cases were 
Grade 3, the majority of cases were Grade 1 or 2. Cases of late onset of neutropenia have been 
reported at least 4 weeks after the latest infusion of inebilizumab. In patients with signs and symptoms 
of infection, measurement of blood neutrophils is recommended. 
Treatment of severely immunocompromised patients 
Patients in a severely immunocompromised state must not be treated until the condition resolves (see 
section 4.3). 
Inebilizumab has not been tested together with other immunosuppressants. If combining it with 
another immunosuppressive therapy, consider the potential for increased immunosuppressive effects. 
Patients with a known congenital or acquired immunodeficiency, including HIV infection or 
splenectomy, have not been studied. 
Vaccinations 
All immunisations should be administered according to immunisation guidelines at least 4 weeks prior 
to initiation of inebilizumab. The efficacy and safety of immunisation with live or live-attenuated 
vaccines following inebilizumab therapy has not been studied, and vaccination with live-attenuated or 
live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and until B-cell repletion. 
Infants of mothers exposed to inebilizumab during pregnancy should not be administered live or 
live-attenuated vaccines before confirming recovery of B-cell counts in the infant. Depletion of B cells 
in these exposed infants may increase the risks from live or live-attenuated vaccines. Non-live 
vaccines, as indicated, may be administered prior to recovery from B-cell and Ig-level depletion, but 
consultation with a qualified specialist should be considered to assess whether a protective immune 
response was mounted. 
B-cell repletion time 
The time to B-cell repletion following administration of inebilizumab is not known. B-cell depletion 
below the lower limit of normal was maintained in 94% of patients for at least 6 months following 
treatment.  
Pregnancy  
As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of inebilizumab during pregnancy and in 
women of childbearing potential not using contraception (see section 4.6). Patients should be 
instructed that if they are pregnant or plan to become pregnant while taking inebilizumab, they should 
inform their healthcare provider. Women of childbearing potential should use effective contraception 
(methods that result in less than 1% pregnancy rates) while receiving Uplizna and for 6 months after 
the last administration of Uplizna.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Malignancy  
Immunomodulatory medicinal products may increase the risk of malignancy. On the basis of limited 
experience with inebilizumab in NMOSD (see section 4.8), the current data do not seem to suggest 
any increased risk of malignancy. However, the possible risk for the development of solid tumours 
cannot be excluded at this time.  
Sodium content  
This medicinal product contains 48.3 mg sodium per dose, equivalent to 2% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No interaction studies have been performed.  
The primary elimination pathway for therapeutic antibodies is clearance by the reticuloendothelial 
system. Cytochrome P450 enzymes, efflux pumps, and protein-binding mechanisms are not involved 
in the clearance of therapeutic antibodies. Therefore, the potential risk of pharmacokinetic interactions 
between inebilizumab and other medicinal products is low.  
Vaccinations 
The efficacy and safety of immunisation with live or live-attenuated vaccines following inebilizumab 
therapy has not been studied. The response to vaccination could be impaired when B cells are 
depleted. It is recommended that patients complete immunisations prior to the start of inebilizumab 
therapy (see section 4.4). 
Immunosuppressants 
Inebilizumab has been tested, and is intended to be used, as monotherapy for this indication. No data 
are available on the safety or efficacy of combining inebilizumab with other immunosuppressants. In 
the pivotal study, a 2-week course of oral corticosteroids (plus a 1-week taper) was given to all 
subjects following the first administration of inebilizumab. 
Concomitant usage of inebilizumab with immunosuppressants, including systemic corticosteroids, 
may increase the risk of infection. The effects of inebilizumab on B cells and immunoglobulins may 
persist for 6 months or longer following its administration.  
When initiating inebilizumab after other immunosuppressive therapies with prolonged immune effects 
or initiating other immunosuppressive therapies with prolonged immune effects after inebilizumab, the 
duration and mode of action of these medicinal products should be taken into account because of 
potential additive immunosuppressive effects (see section 5.1). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy, and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential  
Women of childbearing potential should use effective contraception (methods that result in less than 
1% pregnancy rates) while receiving Uplizna and for 6 months after the last administration of Uplizna. 
Pregnancy 
There are limited amount of data from the use of inebilizumab in pregnant women. Inebilizumab is a 
humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody and immunoglobulins are known to cross the placental barrier. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Transient peripheral B-cell depletion and lymphocytopenia have been reported in infants born to 
mothers exposed to other B-cell-depleting antibodies during pregnancy. 
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity; 
however, they have shown a B-cell depletion in the foetal livers of progeny (see section 5.3).  
Treatment with inebilizumab should be avoided during pregnancy unless the potential benefit to the 
mother outweighs the potential risk to the foetus.  
In case of exposure during pregnancy, depletion of B cells may be expected in newborns due to the 
pharmacological properties of the product and findings from animal studies (see section 5.3). The 
potential duration of B-cell depletion in infants exposed to inebilizumab in utero, and the impact of 
B-cell depletion on the safety and effectiveness of vaccines, are unknown (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Consequently, newborns should be monitored for B-cell depletion and vaccinations with live virus 
vaccines, such as Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine, should be postponed until the infant’s 
B-cell count has recovered (see section 4.4). 
Breast-feeding 
The use of inebilizumab in women during lactation has not been studied. It is unknown whether 
inebilizumab is excreted in human milk. In humans, excretion of IgG antibodies in milk occurs during 
the first few days after birth, which is decreasing to low concentrations soon afterwards. 
Consequently, a risk to the breast-fed child cannot be excluded during this short period. Afterwards, 
Uplizna could be used during breast feeding if clinically needed. However, if the patient was treated 
with Uplizna up to the last few months of pregnancy, breast feeding can be started immediately after 
birth. 
Fertility 
There are limited data on the effect of inebilizumab on human fertility; however, studies in animals 
have shown reduced fertility. The clinical significance of these nonclinical findings is not known (see 
section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
The pharmacological activity and adverse reactions reported to date suggest that inebilizumab has no 
or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions by inebilizumab-treated patients were urinary tract 
infection (26.2%), nasopharyngitis (20.9%), upper respiratory tract infection (15.6%), arthralgia 
(17.3%), and back pain (13.8%) across both the RCP and OLP. 
The most frequently reported serious adverse reactions by inebilizumab-treated patients across the 
RCP and OLP were infections (11.1%) (including urinary tract infections (4.0%), pneumonia (1.8%)) 
and NMOSD (1.8%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial of inebilizumab in NMOSD are listed in Table 2 
according to the following frequency categories: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000), not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Adverse reactions 
MedDRA System Organ Class 
Adverse reaction 
Frequency 
Infections and infestations 
Urinary tract infection, 
 respiratory tract infection, 
nasopharingitis,  
influenza  
Very Common 
Pneumonia,  
cellulitis,  
herpes zoster, 
sinusitis 
Sepsis,  
subcutaneous abscess, 
bronchiolitis  
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Lymphopenia,  
Neutropenia, 
Late-onset neutropenia 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Arthralgia, 
back pain 
Very Common 
Investigations 
Immunoglobulins decreased 
Very Common 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Infusion-related reaction 
Very Common 
Description of selected adverse reactions  
Infusion-related reactions 
Inebilizumab can cause infusion-related reactions, which can include headache, nausea, somnolence, 
dyspnoea, fever, myalgia, rash, or other symptoms. All patients were given premedication. Infusion 
reactions were observed in 9.2% of NMOSD patients during the first course of inebilizumab compared 
to 10.7% of placebo-treated patients. Infusion-related reactions were most common with the first 
infusion but were observed during subsequent infusions. The majority of infusion-related reactions 
reported in inebilizumab-treated patients were either mild or moderate in severity. 
Infections 
An infection was reported by 74.7% of NMOSD patients treated with inebilizumab across the RCP 
and OLP. The most common infections included urinary tract infection (26.2%), nasopharyngitis 
(20.9%), and upper respiratory tract infection (15.6%), influenza (8.9%), and bronchitis (6.7%). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious infections reported by more than one inebilizumab-treated patient were urinary tract infection 
(4.0%) and pneumonia (1.8%). See section 4.4 for action to be taken in case of infection. 
Opportunistic and serious infections 
During the RCP, no opportunistic infections occurred in either treatment group, and a single Grade 4 
infectious adverse reaction (atypical pneumonia) occurred in a patient treated with inebilizumab. 
During the OLP, 2 inebilizumab-treated patients (0.9%) experienced an opportunistic infection (one of 
which was not confirmed) and 3 inebilizumab-treated patients (1.4%) experienced a Grade 4 infectious 
adverse reaction. See section 4.4 for action to be taken in case of infection.  
Laboratory abnormalities 
Decreased immunoglobulins 
Consistent with its mechanism of action, average immunoglobulin levels decreased with inebilizumab 
use. At the end of the 6.5-month RCP, the proportion of patients with levels below the lower limit of 
normal was as follows: IgA 9.8% inebilizumab and 3.1% placebo, IgE 10.6% inebilizumab and 12.5% 
placebo, IgG 3.8% inebilizumab and 9.4% placebo, and IgM 29.3% inebilizumab and 15.6% placebo. 
A single adverse reaction of IgG decreased was reported (Grade 2, during the OLP). The proportion of 
inebilizumab-treated patients with IgG levels below the lower limit of normal at year 1 was 7.4% and 
at year 2 was 9.9%. With a median exposure of 3.2 years, the frequency of moderate IgG reduction 
(300 to <500 mg/dL) was 14.2% and the frequency of severe IgG reduction (<300 mg/dL) was 3.6%. 
Decreased neutrophil counts 
After 6.5 months of treatment, neutrophil counts between 1.0-1.5 x109/L (Grade 2) were observed in 
7.5% of inebilizumab-treated patients versus 1.8% of placebo-treated patients. Neutrophil counts 
between 0.5-1.0 x109/L (Grade 3) were observed in 1.7% of inebilizumab-treated patients versus 0% 
of placebo-treated patients. Neutropenia was generally transient and was not associated with serious 
infections. 
Decreased lymphocyte counts 
After 6.5 months of treatment, a reduction in lymphocyte counts was observed more commonly in 
patients treated with inebilizumab than placebo: lymphocyte counts between 500-< 800/mm3 
(Grade 2) were observed in 21.4% of inebilizumab-treated patients versus 12.5% of placebo-treated 
patients. Lymphocyte counts between 200-< 500/mm3 (Grade 3) were observed in 2.9% of 
inebilizumab-treated patients versus 1.8% of placebo-treated patients. This finding is consistent with 
the mechanism of action of B-cell depletion since B cells are a subset of the lymphocyte population. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
The highest dose of inebilizumab tested in autoimmune patients was 1200 mg, administered as two 
600 mg intravenous infusions separated by 2 weeks. The adverse reactions were similar to what was 
observed in the inebilizumab pivotal clinical study.  
There is no specific antidote in the event of an overdose; the infusion should be interrupted 
immediately and the patient should be observed for infusion-related reactions (see section 4.4). The 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patient should be closely monitored for signs or symptoms of adverse reactions and supportive care 
instituted as required.  
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: 
L04AA47  
Mechanism of action 
Inebilizumab is a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to CD19, a cell surface 
antigen present on pre-B and mature B-cell lymphocytes, including plasmablasts and some plasma 
cells. Following cell surface binding to B lymphocytes, inebilizumab supports antibody-dependent 
cellular cytolysis (ADCC) and antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP). B cells are believed 
to play a central role in the pathogenesis of NMOSD. The precise mechanism by which inebilizumab 
exerts its therapeutic effects in NMOSD is unknown but is presumed to involve B-cell depletion and 
may include the suppression of antibody secretion, antigen presentation, B cell–T cell interaction, and 
the production of inflammatory mediators. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Pharmacodynamics of inebilizumab were assessed with an assay for CD20+ B cells, since 
inebilizumab can interfere with the CD19+ B-cell assay. Treatment with inebilizumab reduces CD20+ 
B-cell counts in blood by 8 days after infusion. In a clinical study of 174 patients, CD20+ B-cell 
counts were reduced below the lower limit of normal by 4 weeks in 100% of patients treated with 
inebilizumab and remained below the lower limit of normal in 94% of patients for 28 weeks after 
initiation of treatment. The time to B-cell repletion following administration of inebilizumab is not 
known. 
In the pivotal study of NMOSD patients the prevalence of anti-drug antibodies (ADA) was 14.7% at 
the end of the OLP; the overall incidence of treatment-emergent ADA was 7.1% (16 of 225) and the 
occurrence and titer of ADA positive timepoints decreased over time with inebilizumab treatment. 
ADA-positive status appeared to have no clinically relevant impact on PK and PD (B-cell) parameters 
and did not impact the long-term safety profile. There was no apparent effect of ADA status on the 
efficacy outcome; however, the impact cannot be fully assessed given the low incidence of ADA 
associated with inebilizumab treatment. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of inebilizumab for the treatment of NMOSD was studied in a randomised (3:1), 
double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in adults with AQP4-IgG seropositive or seronegative 
NMOSD. The study included patients who had experienced at least one acute NMOSD attack in the 
prior year or at least 2 attacks in the prior 2 years that required rescue therapy (e.g., steroids, plasma 
exchange, intravenous immunoglobulin), and had an Expanded Disability Severity Scale (EDSS) score 
≤ 7.5 (patients with a score of 8.0 were eligible if the patient was reasonably able to participate). 
Patients were excluded if previously treated with immunosuppressant therapies within an interval 
specified for each such therapy. Background immunosuppressant therapies for the prevention of 
NMOSD attacks were not permitted.  A 2-week course of oral corticosteroids (plus a 1-week taper) 
was administered at the start of inebilizumab treatment in the pivotal study.  
Patients were treated with intravenous infusions of inebilizumab 300 mg on Day 1 and on Day 15, or 
matching placebo, and then followed for a period of up to 197 days or an adjudicated attack, termed 
the randomised-controlled period (RCP). All potential attacks were evaluated by a blinded, 
independent, Adjudication Committee (AC), who determined whether the attack met protocol-defined 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
criteria. The attack criteria recognised attacks in all domains affected by NMOSD (optic neuritis, 
myelitis, brain, and brainstem) and included criteria based exclusively on substantial clinical 
manifestations, as well as criteria that augmented more modest clinical findings with the use of MRI 
(see Table 3). 
Table 3. Overview of the protocol-defined criteria for an NMOSD attack 
Domain 
Representative 
symptoms 
Optic 
nerve 
Spinal 
cord 
Brainstem 
Blurred vision 
Loss of vision 
Eye pain 
Deep or radicular pain 
Extremity paraesthesia 
Weakness 
Sphincter dysfunction 
Lhermitte’s sign (not in 
isolation) 
Nausea 
Intractable vomiting 
Intractable hiccups 
Other neurological signs 
(e.g., double vision, 
dysarthria, dysphagia, 
vertigo, oculomotor palsy, 
weakness, nystagmus, 
other cranial nerve 
abnormality) 
Brain 
Encephalopathy 
Hypothalamic 
dysfunction 
Clinical-only findings 
8 criteria based on 
changes in visual acuity 
or relative afferent 
pupillary defect (RAPD) 
2 criteria based on 
changes in pyramidal, 
bladder/bowel, or sensory 
functional scores 
Clinical PLUS radiological 
findings 
3 criteria based on changes in 
visual acuity or RAPD plus 
presence of corresponding optic 
nerve MRI findings 
2 criteria based on changes in 
pyramidal, bladder/bowel, or 
sensory functional scores PLUS 
corresponding spinal cord MRI 
findings 
None 
None 
2 criteria based on symptoms or 
changes in brainstem/cerebellar 
functional scores PLUS 
corresponding brainstem MRI 
findings  
1 criterion based on changes in 
cerebral/sensory/pyramidal 
functional scores PLUS 
corresponding brain MRI findings 
Patients who experienced an AC-determined attack in the RCP, or who completed the Day 197 visit 
without an attack, exited the RCP and had the option to enrol into an OLP and initiate or continue 
treatment with inebilizumab. 
A total of 230 patients were enrolled: 213 patients were AQP4-IgG seropositive patients and 17 were 
seronegative patients were enrolled; 174 patients were treated with inebilizumab and 56 patients were 
treated with placebo in the RCP of the study. Of the 213 AQP4-IgG seropositive patients, 161 were 
treated with inebilizumab and 52 were treated with placebo in the RCP of the study. Baseline and 
efficacy results are presented for the AQP4-IgG seropositive patients. 
Baseline demographics and disease characteristics were balanced across the 2 treatment groups (see 
Table 4). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Demographics and baseline characteristics of the AQP4-IgG seropositive NMOSD 
patients 
Characteristic 
Age (years): mean (standard deviation [SD]) 
Age ≥ 65 years, n (%) 
Sex: Male, n (%) 
Sex: Female, n (%) 
Expanded disability status scale (EDSS): 
mean (SD) 
Disease duration (years): mean (SD) 
Number of prior relapses: ≥ 2, n (%) 
Annualised Relapse Rate: mean (SD) 
Placebo 
N = 52 
42.4 (14.3) 
4 (7.7) 
3 (5.8) 
49 (94.2) 
4.35 (1.63) 
Inebilizumab 
N = 161 
43.2 (11.6) 
6 (3.7) 
10 (6.2) 
151 (93.8) 
3.81 (1.77) 
Overall 
N = 213 
43.0 (12.3) 
10 (4.7) 
13 (6.1) 
200 (93.9) 
3.94 (1.75) 
2.92 (3.54) 
39 (75.0) 
1.456 (1.360) 
2.49 (3.39) 
137 (85.1) 
1.682 (1.490) 
2.59 (3.42) 
176 (82.6) 
1.627 (1.459) 
Rescue therapy was initiated as needed for NMOSD attacks. All patients were pre-medicated prior to 
investigational product administration to reduce the risk of infusion-related reactions.  
The primary efficacy endpoint was time (days) from Day 1 to onset of an AC-determined NMOSD 
attack on or before Day 197. Additional key secondary endpoint measures included worsening from 
baseline in EDSS at last visit during the RCP, change from baseline in low-contrast visual acuity 
binocular score measured by low-contrast Landolt C Broken Rings Chart at last visit during the RCP, 
cumulative total active MRI lesions (new gadolinium-enhancing or new/enlarging T2 lesions) during 
the RCP, and the number of NMOSD-related in-patient hospitalisations. A patient was considered to 
have a worsening in EDSS score if one of the following criteria was met: (1) worsening of 2 or more 
points in EDSS score for patients with baseline score of 0; (2) worsening of 1 or more points in EDSS 
score for patients with baseline score of 1 to 5; (3) worsening of 0.5 points or more in EDSS score for 
patients with baseline score of 5.5 or more. Although no comparator was available during the OLP, the 
annualised attack rate across both randomised and open-label treatment was determined. 
Results in AQP4-IgG seropositive patients are presented in Table 5 and Figure 1. In this study, 
treatment with inebilizumab statistically significantly reduced the risk of an AC-determined NMOSD 
attack as compared to treatment with placebo (hazard ratio: 0.227, p < 0.0001; 77.3% reduction in risk 
of AC-determined NMOSD attack) in AQP4-IgG seropositive patients. There was no treatment benefit 
observed in AQP4-IgG seronegative patients. 
In the inebilizumab group EDDS worsening was significantly less than placebo group (14.9% versus 
34.6% of the subjects). There were no differences in the low-contrast visual acuity binocular score 
between the study arms. The mean cumulative number of total active MRI lesions (1.7 versus 2.3) and 
mean cumulative number of NMOSD related hospitalisations (1.0 vs 1.4) were reduced in the 
inebilizumab study group. 
Table 5. Efficacy results in pivotal trial in AQP4-IgG seropositive NMOSD 
Treatment group 
Placebo 
N = 52 
Inebilizumab 
N = 161 
Time to adjudication committee-determined attack (primary efficacy endpoint) 
Number (%) of patients with attack 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)a 
p-valuea 
a Cox regression method, with Placebo as the reference group.  
0.227 (0.1214, 0.4232) 
< 0.0001 
22 (42.3%) 
18 (11.2%) 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Kaplan-Meier plot of time to first AC-determined NMOSD attack during the RCP in 
AQP4-IgG seropositive patients 
e
e
r
f
-
k
c
a
t
t
a
g
n
e
b
i
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
1.0 
0.8 
0.6 
0.4 
0.2 
0.0 
(Inebilizumab) 
87.6% of 
participants were 
attack-free 
(Day 197) 
(Placebo) 56.6% 
of participants 
were attack-free 
(Day 197) 
+ Censored 
77.3% reduction in risk of AC-determined NMOSD attack during RCP; 
hazard ratio (95% CI):0.227 (0.121-0.423); p < 0.0001 
1 
29 
57 
85 
113 
141 
169 
197 
  Number at risk 
Inebilizumab 
Placebo 
161 
52 
157 
49 
146 
44 
135 
38 
129 
37 
127 
29 
122 
27 
88 
16 
Time to attack (days) 
AC adjudication committee; AQP4-IgG anti-aquaporin-4 immunoglobulin G; CI confidence interval; NMOSD neuromyelitis 
optica spectrum disorders; RCP randomised control period. 
Across the RCP and OLP, the annualised AC-determined NMOSD attack rate was analysed as a 
secondary endpoint and in AQP4-IgG seropositive patients treated with inebilizumab the result was 
0.09.  
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
inebilizumab in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in NMOSD (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Absorption 
Inebilizumab is administered as an intravenous infusion. 
Distribution 
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, the estimated typical central and peripheral volume of 
distribution of inebilizumab was 2.95 L and 2.57 L, respectively. 
Biotransformation 
Inebilizumab is a humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody that is degraded by proteolytic enzymes 
widely distributed in the body. 
Elimination 
In adult patients with NMOSD, the terminal elimination half-life was approximately 18 days. From 
population pharmacokinetic analysis, the estimated inebilizumab systemic clearance of the first-order 
elimination pathway was 0.19 L/day. At low pharmacokinetic exposure levels, inebilizumab was 
likely subject to the receptor (CD19)-mediated clearance, which decreased with time presumably due 
to the depletion of B cells by inebilizumab treatment.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
Inebilizumab has not been studied in adolescents or children. 
Elderly 
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, age did not affect inebilizumab clearance. 
Gender, race 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that there was no significant effect of gender and 
race on inebilizumab clearance. 
Renal impairment 
No formal clinical studies have been conducted to investigate the effect of renal impairment on 
inebilizumab. Due to the large molecular weight and hydrodynamic size of an IgG monoclonal 
antibody, inebilizumab is not expected to be filtered through the glomerulus. From population 
pharmacokinetic analysis, inebilizumab clearance in patients with varying degrees of renal impairment 
was comparable to patients with normal estimated glomerular filtration rate. 
Hepatic impairment 
No formal clinical studies have been conducted to investigate the effect of hepatic impairment on 
inebilizumab. In clinical studies, no subjects with severe hepatic impairment have been exposed to 
inebilizumab. IgG monoclonal antibodies are not primarily cleared via the hepatic pathway; change in 
hepatic function is, therefore, not expected to influence inebilizumab clearance. Based on population 
pharmacokinetic analysis, baseline hepatic function biomarkers (AST, ALP, and bilirubin) had no 
clinically relevant effect on inebilizumab clearance. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Nonclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, and carcinogenic potential. 
Inebilizumab was evaluated in a combined fertility and embryo-foetal development study in female 
and male huCD19 Tg mice at intravenous doses of 3 and 30 mg/kg. There was no effect on 
embryo-foetal development, however, there was a treatment-related reduction in fertility index at both 
tested doses. The relevance of this finding to humans is unknown. Additionally, there was a decrease 
in B-cell populations at the site of B-cell development in foetal mice born to inebilizumab-treated 
animals as compared to the offspring of control animals, suggesting that inebilizumab crosses the 
placenta and depletes B cells. 
Only sparse toxicokinetic samples were collected in the combined fertility and embryo-foetal 
development study; based on first dose maximum concentration (Cmax), the exposure multiples of 3 
and 30 mg/kg in female huCD19 Tg mice were 0.4-fold and 4-fold respectively for the 300 mg clinical 
therapeutic dose. 
In a pre-/postnatal development study in transgenic mice, administration of inebilizumab to maternal 
animals from Gestation Day 6 to Lactation Day 20 resulted in depleted B-cell populations in offspring 
at postnatal Day 50. B-cell populations in offspring recovered by postnatal Day 357. The immune 
response to neoantigen in offspring of animals treated with inebilizumab was decreased relative to 
offspring of control animals, suggestive of impairment of normal B-cell function.  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients  
Histidine 
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
Sodium chloride 
Trehalose dihydrate 
Polysorbate 80 [E433] 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life  
5 years 
Shelf life after dilution 
The prepared infusion solution should be administered immediately. If not administered immediately, 
store up to 24 hours in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C or 4 hours at room temperature prior to the start of 
the infusion. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
10 mL of concentrate in a Type 1 glass vial with an elastomeric stopper and a mist gray flip-off 
aluminium seal.  
Pack size of 3 vials.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Preparation of infusion solution 
Prior to the start of the intravenous infusion, the prepared infusion solution should be at room 
temperature between 20°C and 25°C. 
The concentrate should be visually inspected for particulate matter and discolouration. The vial should 
be discarded if the solution is cloudy, discoloured, or it contains discrete foreign particulate matter. 
• 
• 
• 
The vial should not be shaken. 
The vial should be stored upright. 
Obtain an intravenous bag containing 250 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
injection. Do not use other diluents to dilute inebilizumab as their use has not been tested. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Withdraw 10 mL of Uplizna from each of the 3 vials contained in the carton and transfer a total 
of 30 mL into the 250 mL intravenous bag. Mix diluted solution by gentle inversion. Do not 
shake the solution. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Horizon Therapeutics Ireland DAC 
70 St. Stephen’s Green 
Dublin 2 
D02 E2X4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1602/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 25 April 2022. 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency: http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s)  
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP  
Frederick Manufacturing Center (FMC) 
633 Research Court 
Frederick, MD 21703 USA 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release  
Horizon Therapeutics Ireland DAC 
70 St. Stephen’s Green 
Dublin 2 
D02 E2X4 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
• 
Prior to launch of UPLIZNA in each Member State, the MAH must agree about the content and  
format of the educational programme, including communication media, distribution modalities, and  
any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority.   
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where UPLIZNA is marketed, all healthcare  
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe and use UPLIZNA have access  
to/are provided with the following educational package:  
- A patient card   
The patient card shall contain the following key messages: 
o  What is inebilizumab and how does it work  
o  What is neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSD)  
o 
Information that inebilizumab treatment may increase the risk of serious infections, viral 
reactivation, opportunistic infections, and PML  
o  A warning message on seeking early medical care in case of signs and symptoms of infection 
and PML  
o  A warning message for healthcare professionals treating the patient at any time, including in 
conditions of emergency that the patient is receiving inebilizumab  
o  Contact details of treating physician/center  
20 
 
  
  
  
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Uplizna 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
inebilizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each vial of 10 mL contains 100 mg of inebilizumab (10 mg/mL) 
After dilution, the final concentration of the solution to be infused is 1.0 mg/mL. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, polysorbate 80, sodium chloride, trehalose dihydrate, 
and water for injections. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
3 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
For intravenous use. 
Must be diluted before use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Do not shake. 
Store vials upright. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shelf life after dilution 
Administer the prepared infusion solution immediately. If not administered immediately, store up to 
24 hours in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C or 4 hours at room temperature prior to the start of the 
infusion. 
Discard date: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
Store in the original carton to protect from light.  
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Horizon Therapeutics Ireland DAC 
70 St. Stephen’s Green 
Dublin 2 
D02 E2X4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1602/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
GLASS VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Uplizna 100 mg sterile concentrate 
inebilizumab 
For IV use after dilution. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
Do not shake. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
10 mg/mL 
6. 
OTHER  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user  
Uplizna 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
inebilizumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Uplizna is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Uplizna  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Uplizna is given  
Possible side effects  
How to store Uplizna  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Uplizna is and what it is used for 
Uplizna contains the active substance inebilizumab and belongs to a class of medicines called 
monoclonal antibodies. It is a protein that targets antibody-producing cells in the immune system (the 
body’s natural defences) called B-cells. 
Uplizna is used to reduce the risk of attacks in adults with a rare condition called neuromyelitis optic 
spectrum disorder (NMOSD), which affects the nerves of the eye and spinal cord. The condition is 
thought to be due to the immune system mistakenly attacking the nerves in the body. Uplizna is given 
to patients with NMOSD whose B cells produce antibodies against aquaporin-4, a protein that plays an 
important role in nerve function.  
2.  What you need to know before you use Uplizna  
Do not use Uplizna  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to inebilizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you are suffering from a severe active infection such as hepatitis B. 
if you have active or untreated latent tuberculosis. 
if you have a history of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an uncommon but 
serious brain infection caused by a virus. 
if you have been told that you have severe problems with your immune system. 
if you have cancer. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse before you are given Uplizna if you: 
- 
- 
have or think you have an infection. 
have ever taken, take, or plan to take medicines that affect your immune system, or other 
treatments for NMOSD. These medicines could increase your risk of getting an infection. 
have ever had hepatitis B or are a calirrier of the hepatitis B virus. 
- 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
have had a recent vaccination or are scheduled to receive any vaccinations. You should receive 
any required vaccines at least 4 weeks before you start treatment with Uplizna. 
Infusion-related reactions 
Uplizna can cause infusion-related reactions, which can include headache, feeling sick (nausea), 
sleepiness, shortness of breath, fever, muscle pain, rash, or other symptoms. Treatment may be 
interrupted or stopped if symptoms occur. 
Children and adolescents 
This medicine should not be given to children and adolescents because it has not been studied in this 
population. 
Other medicines and Uplizna 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for 
advice before you are given this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
Uplizna should not be used during pregnancy as the medicine may pass the placenta and affect the 
baby. If you are able to get pregnant you should use birth control (contraception) continuously once 
you start receiving Uplizna. If your doctor recommends stopping treatment, continue your 
contraception until 6 months after your last infusion.  
Breast-feeding 
It is not known if Uplizna passes into breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, talk to your healthcare 
provider about the best way to feed your baby if you start treatment with Uplizna. 
Driving and using machines 
Uplizna is not expected to impact your ability to drive or use machines.  
Uplizna contains sodium  
This medicine contains 48 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each infusion. This is 
equivalent to 2% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult.  
3. 
How Uplizna is given 
Uplizna is given by a drip (infusion) into a vein under the supervision of a doctor experienced in 
treating patients with NMOSD. 
The recommended dose is 300 mg.  
The first dose is followed 2 weeks later by a second dose, and after that a dose every 6 months. 
You will be given other medicines half an hour to an hour before the infusion, to reduce the risk of 
side effects. A doctor or nurse will monitor you during the infusion and for an hour afterward.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Your 
doctor will discuss the possible side effects with you and explain the risks and benefits of Uplizna prior 
to treatment. 
Serious side effects 
The most serious side effects are infusion-related reactions and infections (see section 2). These side 
effects may happen any time during treatment or even after your treatment has ended. You may 
experience more than one side effect at the same time. If you have an infusion-related reaction or 
infection, call or see your doctor right away. 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
bladder infection 
infection in the nose, throat, sinuses, and/or lungs 
common cold 
flu 
joint pain 
back pain 
immunoglobulins decreased 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
lower-than-normal number white blood cells in the blood, sometimes occurring 4 weeks or more 
after the latest dose of Uplizna 
swollen sinuses usually caused by an infection 
pneumonia (lung infection) 
cellulitis, a potentially serious bacterial skin infection 
shingles (herpes zoster, a painful, blistering rash in one part of the body) 
reaction to the Uplizna infusion (see Infusion-related reactions, above) 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
infection in the blood (sepsis), an unusually severe response to an infection 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an uncommon but serious brain infection 
caused by a virus 
abscess (an infection under the skin usually caused by bacteria) 
bronchiolitis, an infection of the airways caused by a virus 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Uplizna 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date, which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original carton to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice particulate matter and discoloration. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Uplizna contains 
- 
- 
- 
The active substance is inebilizumab. 
Each vial contains 100 mg of inebilizumab. 
The other ingredients are histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, polysorbate 80, 
sodium chloride, trehalose dihydrate, and water for injections. 
What Uplizna looks like and contents of the pack 
Uplizna 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion is a clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to 
slightly yellow solution supplied as one carton containing 3 vials.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Horizon Therapeutics Ireland DAC 
70 St. Stephen’s Green 
Dublin 2 
D02 E2X4 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
