EMA/666340/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005642 
Vabysmo (faricimab) 
An overview of Vabysmo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vabysmo and what is it used for? 
Vabysmo is a medicine used to treat adults with: 
• 
• 
the ‘wet’ form of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a disease that affects the central part of 
the retina (called the macula) at the back of the eye. The wet form of AMD is caused by abnormal 
growth of blood vessels beneath the retina which may leak fluid and blood and cause swelling; 
impaired vision due to macular oedema caused by diabetes. 
The  macula  provides  central  vision  that  is  needed  to  see  details  for  everyday  tasks  such  as  driving, 
reading  and  recognising  faces.  The  diseases  cause  the  gradual  loss  of  the  central  part  of  a  person’s 
vision.  
Vabysmo contains the active substance faricimab. 
How is Vabysmo used? 
Vabysmo can only be obtained with a prescription and must be given by a qualified eye doctor who is 
experienced in giving injections into the eye.  
It is given as an injection into the vitreous humour, the jelly-like fluid inside the eye. Treatment starts 
with one injection of 6 mg every four weeks. After four doses, the doctor may adjust the interval after 
assessing the patient’s vision. Treatment with Vabysmo should be stopped if the patient is not benefitting 
from it. 
For more information about using Vabysmo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Vabysmo work? 
The active substance in Vabysmo, faricimab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has been 
designed  to  recognise  and  attach  to  two  proteins:  vascular  endothelial  growth  factor  A  (VEGF-A)  and 
angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2). In patients with wet AMD and diabetic macular oedema, these proteins stimulate 
the abnormal growth of blood vessels that is associated with fluid and blood leakage, which damages 
the macula. By attaching to VEGF-A and Ang-2, faricimab blocks the action of these proteins, thereby 
reducing the growth of the blood vessels and controlling the leakage, swelling and inflammation. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Vabysmo have been shown in studies? 
AMD 
Two main studies involving 1,329 patients with the wet form of AMD showed that Vabysmo given at up 
to 16-week intervals was at least as effective at improving the condition as aflibercept (another medicine 
for the wet form of AMD) given at 8-week intervals. After a year of treatment, the average number of 
letters  patients  could  recognise  on  a  standard  eye  test  improved  by  5.8  (first  study)  and  6.6  letters 
(second study) in patients treated with Vabysmo, and by 5.1 and 6.6 letters for those given aflibercept. 
Diabetic macular oedema 
Two further main studies involving 1,891 patients with diabetic macular oedema looked at the effect of 
Vabysmo given either at 8-week intervals or at adjustable intervals (up to 16 weeks), and of aflibercept 
at 8-week intervals.  
After a year of treatment, the improvement in the number of letters patients could recognise was similar 
for the different treatments. In the first study, this improved by 10.7 letters for patients given Vabysmo 
every  8  weeks,  by  11.6  letters  for  those  given  Vabysmo  at  variable  intervals,  and  by  10.9  letters  for 
those  given  aflibercept.  In  the  second  study,  the  improvements  were  11.8,  10.8  and  10.3  letters, 
respectively. In both studies, this effect was maintained throughout a second year of treatment.  
What are the risks associated with Vabysmo? 
The most common side effect with Vabysmo (which may affect up to 2 in 10 people) is cataract (clouding 
of  the  lens).  Other  common  side  effects  (which  may  affect  up  to  1  in  10  people)  are  bleeding  of  the 
conjunctiva  (the  membrane  that  lines  the  white  of  the  eye  and  the  inside  of  the  eyelid),  increased 
pressure within the eye, vitreous floaters (small, dark shapes moving in the field of vision), eye pain, 
tears of the retinal pigment epithelium (only in patients with wet AMD) and increased lacrimation (watery 
eyes).  
The most serious side effects are uveitis (inflammation of the uvea, the layer beneath the white of the 
eyeball),  vitritis  (the  presence  of  inflammatory  cells  in  the  vitreous  humour),  endophthalmitis 
(inflammation inside the eye), retinal tear and rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (the most common 
type of retinal detachment). 
Vabysmo must not be used in patients who may have an infection of the eye or of the area around the 
eye, or who have severe inflammation within the eye. For the full list of side effects and restrictions of 
Vabysmo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vabysmo authorised in the EU? 
Vabysmo was shown to be as effective as the comparator aflibercept at improving the vision of patients 
with wet AMD and diabetic macular oedema. With regards to safety, the most common side effects of 
Vabysmo are similar to those of other products given by intravitreal injection. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Vabysmo’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What  measures  are  being  taken  to  ensure  the  safe  and  effective  use  of 
Vabysmo? 
The  company  that  markets  Vabysmo  will  complete  two  studies  to  confirm  the  safety  of  the  medicine 
when used long term. 
Vabysmo (faricimab)  
EMA/666340/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The  company  will  also  provide  information  packs  to  patients  to  help  them  prepare  for  treatment, 
recognise serious side effects and know when to seek urgent attention from their doctor. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vabysmo have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As  for  all  medicines,  data  on  the  use  of  Vabysmo  are  continuously  monitored.  Suspected  side  effects 
reported with Vabysmo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vabysmo 
Vabysmo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 September 2022. 
Further information on Vabysmo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vabysmo  
This overview was last updated in 09-2022. 
Vabysmo (faricimab)  
EMA/666340/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
