EMA/100938/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005131 
Vafseo (vadadustat) 
An overview of Vafseo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vafseo and what is it used for? 
Vafseo is a medicine used to treat the symptoms of anaemia (low red blood cell counts) caused by 
chronic kidney disease (long-term, progressive decrease in the ability of the kidneys to work properly) 
in adult patients on dialysis (a technique for removing unwanted substances and excess fluid from the 
blood when the kidneys do not work well enough).  
Vafseo contains the active substance vadadustat. 
How is Vafseo used? 
Vafseo can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in the management of anaemia. It is available as tablets to be taken once a day. 
For more information about using Vafseo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Vafseo work? 
Patients with chronic kidney disease may not produce enough erythropoietin, a hormone needed to 
stimulate the production of red blood cells. The active substance in Vafseo, vadadustat, acts on an 
enzyme called hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase (HIF-PH). This stimulates the natural 
response that normally occurs when oxygen levels are low, including the production of erythropoietin 
and red blood cells.  
What benefits of Vafseo have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies involving nearly 4,000 patients with anaemia caused by chronic kidney disease who 
were on dialysis showed that Vafseo was as effective as darbepoetin alfa (another medicine for treating 
anaemia) at increasing blood levels of haemoglobin.  
What are the risks associated with Vafseo? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Vafseo, see the package leaflet. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The most common side effects with Vafseo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
thromboembolic events (problems due to the formation of blood clots in the blood vessels), diarrhoea 
and hypertension (high blood pressure).  
Why is Vafseo authorised in the EU? 
Vafseo was shown to be as effective as the comparator medicine darbepoetin alfa at treating anaemia 
in patients with chronic kidney disease who were on dialysis. With regard to safety, the risk of 
thromboembolic events in patients treated with Vafseo is addressed with warnings in the prescribing 
information. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Vafseo’s benefits are greater than 
its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vafseo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vafseo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vafseo are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Vafseo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vafseo 
Vafseo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 24 April 2023. 
Further information on Vafseo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vafseo 
This overview was last updated in 04-2023. 
Vafseo (vadadustat)  
EMA/100938/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
