EMA/695145/2016 
EMEA/H/C/000915 
EPAR summary for the public 
Valdoxan 
agomelatine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Valdoxan. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Valdoxan. 
For practical information about using Valdoxan, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Valdoxan and what is it used for? 
Valdoxan is a medicine used to treat major depression in adults. Major depression is a condition in 
which patients have mood disturbances that interfere with their everyday life. Symptoms often include 
deep sadness, feelings of worthlessness, loss of interest in favourite activities, sleep disturbances, a 
feeling of being slowed down, feelings of anxiety and changes in weight. 
Valdoxan contains the active substance agomelatine.  
How is Valdoxan used? 
Valdoxan can only be obtained with a prescription and is available as tablets (25 mg). 
The recommended dose is one tablet once a day, taken at bedtime. If there is no improvement in 
symptoms after two weeks, the doctor may increase the dose to two tablets taken together at 
bedtime. Patients with depression should be treated for at least six months to make sure that they are 
free of symptoms. 
The patient’s liver function should be checked with blood tests before starting treatment and when the 
dose is increased, followed by further tests around 3, 6, 12 and 24 weeks later. Treatment should not 
be started or should be stopped in patients with abnormal liver enzyme levels in the blood (more than 
three times the normal level). Treatment should be discontinued immediately if the patient develops 
symptoms or signs of potential liver injury. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For further information, see the package leaflet.  
How does Valdoxan work? 
The active substance in Valdoxan, agomelatine, is an antidepressant. It works in two ways, by 
stimulating the MT1 and MT2 receptors and by blocking the 5-HT2C receptors in the brain. This is 
thought to lead to increases in the levels of the neurotransmitters dopamine and noradrenaline. 
‘Neurotransmitters’ are chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. Since 
dopamine and noradrenaline are involved in the control of mood, their increase between nerve cells in 
the brain is believed to help relieve the symptoms of depression. Valdoxan might also help to 
normalise the patient’s sleep patterns. 
What benefits of Valdoxan have been shown in studies? 
Valdoxan has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in five main short-term studies 
involving a total of 1,893 adults with major depression. Three of these studies included some patients 
treated with other antidepressants, either fluoxetine or paroxetine, as an ‘active comparator’. The 
active comparator groups were included to check that the study was able to measure the effectiveness 
of medicines in treating depression. The main measure of effectiveness in these five studies was the 
change in symptoms after six weeks, as measured on a standard scale for depression called the 
Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM D). In the two studies where no active comparator was used 
Valdoxan was seen to be more effective than placebo. In the other three studies, which did include an 
active comparator, there were no differences in scores between the patients taking Valdoxan and those 
taking placebo. However, no effect of fluoxetine or paroxetine was seen in two of these studies, 
making the results difficult to interpret. 
The company also presented the results of a further study comparing Valdoxan with sertraline (another 
antidepressant), which showed that Valdoxan was more effective than sertraline, with a reduction in 
HAM D scores after six weeks.. 
Two other main studies compared the ability of Valdoxan and placebo to prevent symptoms returning 
in 706 patients whose depression had already been controlled with Valdoxan. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the number of patients whose symptoms returned during 24 to 26 weeks of 
treatment. In the first study, there was no difference between Valdoxan and placebo in preventing 
symptoms from returning during 26 weeks of treatment. However, the second study showed that 
symptoms returned in 21% of the patients taking Valdoxan over 24 weeks (34 out of 165), compared 
with 41% of the patients taking placebo (72 out of 174). 
What are the risks associated with Valdoxan? 
The most common side effects with Valdoxan (seen in more than 1 patients in 100) are headache, 
nausea (feeling sick) and dizziness. Most side effects were mild or moderate in intensity, happened 
within the first two weeks of treatment and were temporary. For the full list of all side effects reported 
with Valdoxan, see the package leaflet. 
Valdoxan must not be used in patients who have problems with their liver, such as cirrhosis (scarring 
of the liver) or active liver disease, nor in patients whose level of transaminases (liver enzymes) in the 
blood is more than three times the normal level. It must also not be used in patients who are taking 
medicines that slow down the breakdown of Valdoxan in the body, such as fluvoxamine (another 
antidepressant) and ciprofloxacin (an antibiotic). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Valdoxan  
EMA/695145/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why is Valdoxan approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) noted that Valdoxan’s benefits 
in terms of treating depression might be lower than seen with other antidepressants. However, since 
the medicine has a different mode of action, few side effects and a different safety profile to existing 
antidepressants, the Committee concluded that Valdoxan could be a valuable treatment for some 
patients as long as their liver function is tested frequently. Therefore, the CHMP decided that 
Valdoxan’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing 
authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Valdoxan? 
The company that markets Valdoxan will supply educational material for doctors prescribing Valdoxan. 
This material explains the safety of the medicine, its interactions with other medicines, and includes 
guidance on the monitoring of liver function and management of possible symptoms of liver problems. 
A patient booklet will also be distributed to all patients who are prescribed Valdoxan so that they are 
aware of the risk to the liver, the importance of monitoring liver function and the signs of liver 
problems to look out for. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Valdoxan have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Valdoxan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Valdoxan on 19 February 2009.  
The full EPAR for Valdoxan can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Valdoxan, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2016. 
Valdoxan  
EMA/695145/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
