European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 November 2008 
Doc.Ref.:  EMEA/655251/2008 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Valdoxan 
International Nonproprietary Name: agomelatine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000915 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 13 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 57 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 62 
Page 2 of 66 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Les Laboratoires Servier submitted on 06 September 2007 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Valdoxan,  through  the  centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 26 April 2007.  
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is a complete dossier: composed of administrative information, complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: treatment of major depressive disorder in adults. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 29 July 1999. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
Valdoxan has been given a Marketing Authorisation in Ukraine on 28 August 2006. 
A new application was filed in the following countries: Australia, Brazil, Russia, South Africa and 
Turkey. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: 
Co-Rapporteur: Tomas P Salmonson 
Eva Skovlund   
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 06 September 2007. 
The procedure started on 27 September 2007.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  14 
December  2007.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members  on  14  December  2007.  In  accordance  with  Article  6(3)  of  Regulation  (RC)  No 
726/2004, the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur declared that they had completed their assessment 
report in less than 80 days.  
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  January  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 25 January 2008. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 24 April 
2008. 
The  Integrated  Inspections  Report  of  the  routine  inspections  carried  out  at  the  sponsor  site  in 
France and two investigators sites, one in Portugal and one in South Africa between 15 January 
and 21 February 2008, was issued on 18 April 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 06 June 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  23-26  June  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant.. 
Page 3 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 20 September 
2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 06 October 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 20-23 October 2008, outstanding issues were addressed by the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
During  the  meeting  on  17-20  November  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Valdoxan on 20 November 2008. The applicant provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  18 
November 2008. 
Page 4 of 66 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 Introduction 
Major  Depressive  Disorder  (MDD)  is  reported  to  be  the  most  common  mood  disorder.  Depressive 
disorders tend to be chronic and both relapse and recurrence are seen frequently. 
The  presumed  mechanism  of  action  of  the  majority  of  antidepressants  in  the  treatment  of  MDD  is 
thought to be via inhibition of neuronal reuptake of monoamines (mainly serotonin and noradrenaline), 
with a resultant increase in monoamine neurotransmission in the central nervous system (CNS). 
Agomelatine  is  claimed  to  bring  a  new  concept  into  the  antidepressant  treatment  area.  The 
agomelatine  molecule  possesses  a  new  pharmacological  mechanism  of  action,  which  combines  its 
melatonin  MT1  and  MT2  agonist  properties  with  a  serotonin  5-HT2C  antagonist  effect.  The  5-HT2C 
receptors  is  considered  a  relevant  target  with  regard  to  antidepressant  therapy,  as  several  currently 
used antidepressant drugs are endowed with 5-HT2C receptor antagonist properties (e.g. mianserin and 
mirtazapine). 
The recommended dose proposed by the applicant in the SPC is 25 mg once daily (taken at bedtime). 
After two weeks of treatment, if there is no improvement of symptoms, the dose may be increased to 
50  mg  once  daily,  i.e.  two  25  mg  tablets  together  at  bedtime.  Patients  with  depression  should  be 
treated for a sufficient period of at least 6 months to ensure that they are free of symptoms. 
The clinical development programme focused on showing efficacy of agomelatine 25 mg and 50 mg 
in  the  rather  wide  MDE  indication.  Supportive  studies  were  performed  to  demonstrate  relapse 
prevention, efficacy in the elderly and clinical safety. 
The applicant obtained scientific advice from the EMEA on 30 July 1999 (CPMP/1807/99). 
The  applicant submitted in  March 2005  an application  for Marketing  Authorisation to the  European 
Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Valdoxan,  through  the  centralised  procedure.  Major  objections 
regarding the doubtful clinical relevance of the effect size in the short-term studies and the fact that 
long-term efficacy and relapse prevention had not been demonstrated were raised. A negative opinion 
was  adopted  by  the  CHMP  in  July  2006,  and  the  applicant  requested  a  re-examination  of  the 
application.  However,  in  January  2007  the  Commission  of  the  European  Communities  adopted  the 
negative  decision  of  the  CHMP  and  issued  a  negative  Commission  Decision  refusing  marketing 
authorisation for Valdoxan – agomelatine. 
In  September  2007,  the  applicant  submitted  to  the  EMEA  a  complete  new  Marketing  Authorisation 
application  based  on  a  full  documentation  dossier  for  Valdoxan  through  the  Centralised  Procedure, 
according to Article 8(3). 
The  new  application  has  been  completed  by  additional  data  including  a  new  study  aiming  to 
demonstrate the efficacy of agomelatine in preventing relapse of depression (CL3-041). 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 25 mg of agomelatine as active substance. 
Other ingredients are  lactose  monohydrate,  maize  starch,  povidone, sodium  starch  glycolate  type  A, 
stearic  acid,  magnesium  stearate  and  silica  colloidal anhydrous  in  the  core  tablet  and  hypromellose, 
yellow  iron  oxide  (E172),  glycerol  ,  macrogol  6000,  and  titanium  dioxide  (E171)  and  indigotine 
(E132). 
The film coated tablets are packaged in aluminium/polyvinylchloride blister pack. 
Page 5 of 66 
 
Active Substance 
Agomelatine  is  a  non-hygroscopic  white  or  almost  white  powder  practically  insoluble  in  purified 
water  and  contains  no  asymmetric  carbon  atoms.  Agomelatine  has  the  chemical  name  N[2-(7-
methoxy-1-naphthyl)ethyl] acetamide.. 
•  Manufacture 
The  manufacturing  process  is  carried  out  in  two  main  steps  and  adequate  in-process  controls  are 
applied during the synthesis. Adequate in-process controls are applied. The specifications and control 
methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents, have been presented.  
The  manufacturing  process  of  agomelatine  has  been  validated  on  consecutive  production  scale 
batches, and the batch analysis data show that the active substance can be manufactured reproducibly. 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  solubility  (Ph.  Eur.),  identification 
(IR,  HPLC),  assay  (potenciometric  titration),  chemical  purity  (HPLC),  loss  on  drying  (Ph.  Eur.), 
sulphated  ash  (Ph.  Eur.),  heavy  metals  (Ph.  Eur.),  particle  size  distribution  (Laser  granulometry), 
residual catalyst content. 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The analytical methods 
used in the routine controls are suitably described. The validation studies are in accordance with the 
ICH Guidelines. 
Batch analysis data is provided on several batches produced with the defined synthetic route, and the 
batch analysis data show that the active substance can be manufactured reproducibly. 
•  Stability 
Stability  studies  have  been  conducted  in  accordance  with  ICH  Q1A  (R)  on  three  reduced-sized 
industrial container closure systems. Data provided cover 6 months stored at 40 ºC/75 % RH, one year 
stored  at  30 ºC/60 % RH  and  three  years  stored  at  25 ºC/60%RH  and  30 ºC/70  %  RH.  The  stability 
parameters  tested  were  appearance,  identification  (IR),  assay  (HPLC  and  potentiometry),  water 
content and related substances. 
Stress testing at different temperatures  was performed for one industrial size batch in powder form . 
Testing parameters were appearance, water content, IR and determination of agomelatine and related 
substances (HPLC). 
Photostability was also tested according to ICH Q1B of the active substance. 
Based on these stability results, the retest period proposed for agomelatine was considered acceptable. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  intrinsic  physico-chemical  properties  of  the  active  substance,  were  taken  into  account  for  the 
development of an oral solid formulation. A conventional immediate release tablet was selected as the 
pharmaceutical form and the excipients were selected based on compatibility testing of a number of 
excipients with the drug substance. A wet granulation formulation was chosen for this product. 
Several  formulations  were  developed  during  clinical  trials  phases.  The  dissolution  studied  results 
showed that the different formulations were similar. 
The  excipients  lactose  monohydrate,  macrogol  6000,  magnesium  stearate,  maize  starch,  povidone, 
colloidal  anhydrous  silica,  sodium  starch  glycolate  (type  A),  stearic  acid  meet  the  specifications  of 
European  Pharmacopoeia.  Certificates  of  analysis  of  one  batch  of  dry  premix  for  orange  coating 
containing the colouring agents titanium dioxide and yellow iron oxide and one batch of blue ink for 
printing  containing  the  colouring  agent  indigo  were  presented  and  were  analysed  according  to  the 
specifications and analytical procedures  
Page 6 of 66 
 
Aluminium/polyvinylchloride  blister  are  used  as  primary  packaging.  The  materials  comply  with  Ph. 
Eur. and are adequate to support the stability and use of the product. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Lactose monohydrate is the only excipient of animal origin. The lactose manufacturers certifies that: 
lactose derives from milk sourced from healthy animals in the same conditions as milk collected for 
human  consumption,  which  excludes  this  excipient  from  the  scope  of  the  “Note  for  guidance  on 
minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal  spongiform  encephalopathy  agents  via  human  and 
veterinary  medicinal  products”;  calf  rennet  used  for  production  of  the  raw  material  whey  is  in 
accordance  with  the  Public  Statement  “Lactose  prepared  using    calf  rennet:  risk  assessment  in 
relationship to bovine spongiform encephalopathies (BSE)”. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process for the tablets is adequately described and consists of a conventional wet 
granulation.  The  manufacturing  process  and  in-process  controls    are  adequate  for  this  tablet 
preparation.. 
The  batch  analysis  data  and  process  validation  data  show  that  the  tablets  can  be  manufactured 
reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of 
this oral preparation. 
•  Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identification  of  the 
active substance (HPLC, TLC), average mass, microbial quality (Ph. Eur.), assay (HPLC), degradation 
products (HPLC), uniformity of content (Ph. Eur.), dissolution (Ph. Eur.) 
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch analysis data confirm satisfactory uniformity of the product at release. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability data are presented for 3 primary batches packed in the immediate container closure system 
proposed for marketing i.e. heat-sealed aluminium/polyvinyl chloride blister pack. The stability testing 
conditions are in accordance with ICH Q1A (R). 
The  parameters  tested  during  stability  study  are  identical  with  the  release  specifications.  Additional 
test results for resistance to crushing, water content (Ph.Eur.) and disintegration were performed. 
Results  have  been  generated  by  validated,  stability  indicating  methods  and  indicate  satisfactory 
stability. These results support the shelf life and storage conditions stated in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
Page 7 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  applicant  submitted  extensive  documentation  concerning  the  non-clinical  pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and toxicology of agomelatine. One non-clinical major objection and a number of 
points  for  clarification  were  raised  and  subsequently  resolved  during  the  previous  procedure.  The 
major objection concerned findings in the carcinogenicity studies.  
The  majority  of  the  non-clinical  studies  were  generally  conducted  in  accordance  with  Good 
Laboratory Practice (GLP) standards, while studies assessing CNS safety and follow-up studies were 
non-GLP standards. All pivotal toxicity studies were conducted according to the principles of Good 
Laboratory Practice. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics 
Agomelatine is a melatonin agonist with high affinity binding to the human melatonin MT1 and MT2 
receptors. It also acts as a serotonin antagonist at the 5-HT2C receptor from  man and several animal 
species, although with lower affinity. In vitro the 3HD metabolite has a moderate affinity for human 
cloned MT1 ,MT2 receptors and the 7DP has a moderate affinity for human cloned 5HT2C receptors . 
The other metabolites have weak or no affinity for MT1 ,MT2 and 5HT2C receptors. 
Although formal in vitro studies have not been submitted to demonstrate affinity for MT receptors in 
other  species  than  man,  the  applicant  adequately  demonstrated  that  agomelatine  has  anti-depressive 
like  activity  in  a  number  of  animal  models  of  depression,  with  effects  similar  to  imipramine  and 
fluoxetine. The anti-depressant effect is related both to activation of melatonin receptors and inhibition 
of  5-HT2C  receptors,  and  putatively  to  increased  levels  of  extracellular  NA  and  DA.  Additionally, 
agomelatine  showed  anxiolytic  effects  and  chronobiotic  activity  related  to  the  melatonin  activity, 
while  no  indication  of  antipsychotic  properties  is  seen.  The  pharmacological  effects  of  agomelatine 
seems to be related to the time of dosing, and highest effect levels are seen at dosing in the evening 
(light/dark transition), in accordance with the circadian fluctuation of endogenous melatonin, and with 
the applied clinical posology. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary  pharmacodynamics  studies  explored  the  effects  of  agomelatine  on  memory,  learning  and 
vigilance  in  mice,  as  well  as  its  effects  on  sleep  and  EEG  spectra  in  rats  when  administered  in  the 
morning or in the evening. All studies were performed in males only. 
Agomelatine had no adverse effects on the performed spatial learning and memory studies in mice, or 
on EEG recordings in rats at doses ≤ 10 mg/kg (ip, iv). Agomelatine (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) enhanced the 
acquisition  of  discrimination.  At  the  highest  doses  (1  and  10  mg/kg,  i.p.),  agomelatine  improved 
retention,  particularly  when  administered  in  the  evening.  However  no  effect  of  agomelatine  on 
vigilance  states  and  EEG  power  spectrum  is  observed  at  a  dose  (3mg/kg,  i.p.)  efficient  for 
resynchronisation  of  circadian  rhythms.  Blood  levels  of  agomelatine  lower  than  10µg/mL 
(corresponding to the high dose group) are unlikely to alter the EEG spectral power. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Studies  of  safety  pharmacology  showed  that  agomelatine  and  the  metabolite  7DP  causes  significant 
CNS  depression  at  high  doses.  No  abuse  potential  for  agomelatine  was  observed.  No  biologically 
relevant effects were seen on renal function, the respiratory system, the cardiovascular system or the 
gastrointestinal  system.  Agomelatine  resulted  in  a  slightly  increased  gastrointestinal  motility. 
Endocrine  studies  in  rat  showed  that  agomelatine  reduced  basal  and  stress-related  prolactin  and  LH 
levels in males and the surge of prolactin and LH in potentially pro-oestrus females, and corticosterone 
in both genders. Equivocal effects were observed on ACTH, GH, TSH, while a potential effects on the 
oestrus cycle was not properly assessed. 
Page 8 of 66 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No studies were performed in animals except the diazepam and barbital interaction studies in the rat. 
Interaction  studies  were  performed  in  healthy  volunteers  (see  Clinical  Primary  and  Secondary 
Pharmacology section). 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of agomelatine was studied in the B6C3F1 mouse, the Wistar rat, the pigmented 
LE  rat  and  the  cynomolgus  monkey,  the  same  animal  species  and  strains  used  in  the  toxicology 
studies. Absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination characteristics were assessed following 
single  and  repeated  oral  administration,  which  is  the  intended  route  for  human  use.  The  absolute 
bioavailability,  distribution  and  elimination  were  determined  after  intravenous  administration  in  the 
Wistar rat and the monkey. A non-compartmental analysis was used. Data obtained with SD or Fischer 
rat strains and in cynomolgus monkeys in oral toxicology studies, were included for pharmacokinetic 
interpretation.  The  pigmented  LE  rat  was  selected  for  the  assessment  of  whole  body  distribution  of 
agomelatine. 
Agomelatine  was  rapidly  and  almost  completely  absorbed  after  oral  administration,  but  with  a  low 
absolute  bioavailability  (7  %  and  0.2  %  in  rat  and  monkey,  respectively)  caused  by  a  high  level  of 
first-pass  metabolism.  Following  both  single  and  repeated  oral  dosing,  agomelatine  exhibited  non-
linear  kinetics  in  the  oral  dose  range  2.5-750  mg/kg  and  10-720  mg/kg  for  the  rat  and  monkey, 
respectively, as both Cmax and AUC increased more than dose proportional. This non-linearity is by the 
applicant related to saturation of the first-pass/ pre-systemic metabolism at higher doses. In rats, the 
first-pass  metabolism  is  assumed  to  be  of  hepatic  origin.  In  monkeys,  however,  the  gut  wall  also 
contributes significantly to the low bioavailability. 
The exposure levels of unchanged agomelatine in plasma, especially in monkey, was characterised by 
a  high  inter-  and  intra-individual  variability.  The  underlying  mechanisms  explaining  most  of  the 
observed  variability  in plasma  levels  for  both  species  seems  to be  saturation  of  the solubility  of  the 
drug at high doses, as well as a high and saturable hepatic first-pass effect. The rate limited dissolution 
process  is  evidenced  by  a  systematic  shift  in  the  tmax  at  high  doses  without  any  change  in  the  total 
amount absorbed. The single dose absorption studies were performed on males only, thus a gender-
related  effect  on single  dose  pharmacokinetics  has  not  been  performed.  In  the repeated  dose  studies 
both  genders  are  represented.  The  high  inter-individual  variability  combined  with  few  animals  per 
dose group makes assessment of gender-related effects difficult. However, in rats the exposure levels 
tend to be higher in females than in males, while in monkeys the exposure levels tend to be higher in 
males than in females.  
Distribution studies  were  only  performed  on the  rat. Because  the toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in 
both  rats  and  monkeys,  a  distribution  study  had  preferably  to  be  performed  in  both  species. 
Agomelatine and/or its metabolites are rapidly and extensively distributed throughout the body, with a 
rather  moderate  volume  of  distribution,  in  accordance  with  the  lipophilic  properties  of  agomelatine. 
The levels in the CNS were relatively low and quickly eliminated. Initially, there were high levels of 
radioactivity in organs related to excretion, in adrenal glands, and in the uveal tract indicating possible 
affinity to melanin. At late sampling times (48-96 h), highest levels were seen in oesophagus, stomach, 
and  intestinal  wall,  which  may  indicate  an  affinity  for  mucosa  and  epithelia.  The  high  levels  in  the 
gastrointestinal system are by the applicant explained by gastric secretion. The binding to melanin is 
considered as weak (half life: 6-10h) and rapidly reversible in comparison to melanin turn-over which 
is  measured  in  years.  Further,  no  signs  of  ocular  toxicity  were  observed  in  the  toxicological 
evaluations.  
Agomelatine  was  moderately  bound  to  plasma  proteins  (75%  to  95%)  in  all  animal  species  and  in 
humans. The protein binding profile of the four main metabolites (7DP, 3HP, DHDP and DAPACID) 
were similar in rats, monkeys and humans, and was high (95-98%) for DAPACID, moderate (71-78%) 
for  7DP and  3HP, and low  (2-25%)  for  DHDP. The metabolite  3H7DP  had low  affinity  for  protein 
binding  (bound  fraction  of  56-60%)  in  human  heparinised  plasma  samples.  The  in  vitro  blood  to 
plasma concentration was close to 1 in rat, 0.9 in monkey and 0.7 in man, indicating an almost equal 
distribution of agomelatine in blood (erythrocytes) and plasma in rat and monkey, but slightly more 
Page 9 of 66 
distributed to plasma in man. In an in vitro blood-brain barrier model, agomelatine and 7DP cross at a 
high grade, 3HP at an intermediate and DAPACID at a low grade.  
The main routes of metabolism in rat, monkey and  man have been identified as 3-hydroxylation, 7-
desmethylation  and  oxidation  of  the  naphthyl  moiety  at  position  7,  leading  to  the  main  metabolites 
3HP, 7DP, and DHDP. The combination of 3-hydroxylation and 7-desmethylation leads to formation 
of the major metabolite 3H7DP in man, moderate in monkey and barely present in rat. DHDP is most 
likely  formed  after  hydrolysis  of  a  3,4-epoxide-agomelatine  intermediate.  Neither  the  epoxide-
intermediate  nor  glutathione,  cystein  conjugate  or  mercapturic  acid  derivatives  were  observed  in 
monkey  plasma,  indicating  that  the  potential  intermediate  has  a  low  reactivity  and/or  a  rapid 
detoxification.  Both  rat  and  monkey  were  found  to  be  representative  toxicological  species,  and  the 
metabolites identified in humans have been found in at least one of these species. The monkey was a 
relevant  species  for  almost  all  the  human  metabolic  pathways,  except  the  oxidative  deamination, 
where  the  rat  was  complementary.  Enzyme  induction  is  observed  to  different  degree  in  rodent  and 
monkey at oral doses ≥ 125 mg/kg, with a subsequent decrease in exposure of unchanged agomelatine. 
Agomelatine  causes  a  time  and  dose-related  induction  of  CYP2B,  CYP1A,  CYP3A  and  UGT  in 
rodents.  In  monkey,  only  a  minimal  induction  of  CYP2B  and  CYP3A  was  observed,  while  CYP2C 
and  CYP4A  were  slightly  down-regulated.  UGT  was  not  investigated  in  monkey.  Further,  as  an 
additional evidence of hepatic enzyme induction, a slight decrease in AUC24 occurred during the first 
month of dosing from 150 mg/kg. The enzyme induction is associated with a dose-dependent increase 
in liver weight. The relatively weak increase in liver weight observed in monkeys was not correlated 
with histological signs of hepatic injury. Even though the P450 cytochrome induction was minimal it 
remains the most likely explanation for the increased liver weight. 
The  metabolites  of  agomelatine  were  conjugated  and  excreted  via  urine  and  faeces,  and  only  low 
levels of unchanged agomelatine were excreted. About 80 % of the administered dose was excreted 
after  120  and  168  h  for  low  and  high  oral  doses  (2.5  and  100  mg/kg,  respectively).  In  rats, 
approximately 50-75 % of administered radioactive agomelatine was recovered in the urine and 20-40 
% in faeces, while in monkey a larger proportion (60-80 %) was excreted in urine, similar to man. In 
general, the urinary excretion was slightly increased at high oral doses, and slightly higher in female 
than male rats. Studies performed in bile-cannulated rats demonstrated that most of the radioactivity 
detected  in  faeces  was  due  to  biliary  excretion.  Agomelatine  and/or  its  metabolites  were  readily 
excreted  into  rat  milk,  with  mean  milk/plasma  ratio  increasing  from  0.348  (0.5  h)  to  1.128  (2.5  h), 
consequently the drug should not be used during lactation. This was adequately reflected in the SPC. 
The potential for pharmacokinetic interactions was not studied in animals. The evaluation of potential 
for drug interactions was based on assessment of human data. 
Toxicology 
Agomelatine  was  assessed  in  a  variety  of  toxicity  tests  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  The  studies  included 
conventional single-dose toxicity studies in mice, rats and monkeys, repeated dose toxicity studies in 
mice, rats and monkeys, in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity, carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats, and 
reproduction  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits.  In  addition,  several  mechanistic  studies  were 
performed in order to elucidate potentially drug-related carcinogenic findings. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
All studies showed a dose-related sedatory effect of agomelatine on the CNS, with a rather low acute 
toxicity profile (LD50 ≥ 100 times the human dose). 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat dose toxicology was studied in rats (4-, 13-, 26-week studies) and monkeys (4-, 13-, 26- and 
52-week  studies)  with  both  oral  and  intravenous  administrations.  The  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies 
indicated that liver is the target organ of toxicity in both rats and monkeys, with high safety margins in 
rats  and  low  in  monkeys.  Agomelatine  caused  hepatic  enzyme  induction  with  subsequent  increased 
metabolism and reduced drug exposure. The level of induction was more pronounced in rats than in 
monkeys. As a consequence of induction at doses > 125 mg/kg/po, the animals showed enlarged livers 
and/or hepatocellular hypertrophy. Increased excretion of porphyrins and porphobilinogen in the urine 
Page 10 of 66 
was  associated  with  discoloration  of  the  urine.  Additional  studies  did  not  show  inhibition  of  rate-
limiting  enzymes  in  the  heme  cascade  or  a  potential for  hepatic  porphyrin  accumulation.  Dark  liver 
discoloration was observed in rats at low dose levels. According to the applicant, the discoloration is 
related to the enzyme induction. The applicant did not present any data confirming a direct correlation 
between liver discoloration and enzyme induction. However, similar discoloration was observed in the 
mechanistic studies with phenobarbital, supporting the suggested relation to enzyme induction. 
•  Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity 
In a standard battery of in vivo genotoxicity studies, no genotoxic potential of agomelatine was found. 
Equivocal  results  were  obtained  in  the  first  mouse  lymphoma  assay  in  vitro.  A  second  study  was 
conducted in order to clarify the results with metabolic activation. No reproducible or concentration-
related trends in mutation frequency at the tk locus were observed. Clear positive results were seen in 
a chromosomal aberration assay with human lymphocytes when performed according to guideline ICH 
S7B. In the 3 hour assay, only a single concentration was used, thus a NOAEL for these findings could 
not  be  established.  However,  in  view  of  the  otherwise  negative  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  genotoxicity 
studies,  the  positive  results  in  the  chromosome  aberration  test  were  considered  of  minor  clinical 
relevance. 
In  the  carcinogenicity  studies  agomelatine  increased  the  incidences  of  hepatic  adenomas  and 
carcinomas  in  mice  (both  genders)  and  rats  (males),  and  increased  incidences  of  mammary 
fibroadenomas in rats (both sexes). Toxicokinetic studies showed that males (rats) are more exposed 
than  females,  especially  at  104  weeks.  The  gender-related  differences  in  occurrence  of  hepatic 
tumours could therefore be related to gender-related differences in exposure. 
Mechanistic studies showed that agomelatine caused dose-related increased levels of modified DNA 
bases  and  potential  agomelatine  adducts  in  both  males  and  females  following  28  days  in  vivo 
exposure, and at levels higher than the positive control 2-AAF. Negative in vitro studies indicated that 
the modified bases in vivo is not due to agomelatine-adducts. A mechanistic study aimed at evaluating 
a potential relationship between DNA modifications and the presence of enzyme induction in the male 
rat liver was performed at early (6 and 24h) time-points following agomelatine exposure. Agomelatine 
was  administered  by  gavage  of  a  low,  non-inductive,  dose  and  a  high,  inductive  dose.  At  6h  the 
plasma levels of agomelatine and its major metabolites were higher than those observed at 24h (3 to 
189-fold). No DNA modifications or enzyme inductions were detected at 6h after administration. At 
24h  both  DNA  modifications  and  a  10-fold  CYP  2B1/2  enzyme  induction  (not  involved  in  the 
metabolism  of  agomelatine  in  rats)  were  detected  in  the  high  dose,  but  not  in  the  low  dose  group. 
Additionally,  in  a  28  day  study  of  continuous  feeding  of  agomelatine,  DNA  modifications  were 
detected after repeat administration of agomelatine when the typical pattern of enzyme induction was 
achieved (marked CYP 2B1/2 and mild CYP 1A1/2 inductions). 
Taken together, the new data provided further supported the weight of evidence that agomelatine has 
no  genotoxic  potential.  Rodent  hepatic  adenomas  and  carcinomas  observed  in  the  carcinogenicity 
studies most likely occur through non-genotoxic mechanisms and do not pose carcinogenic hazard to 
human at the non-enzyme inducing therapeutic dose. The safety margins based on plasma AUC in the 
carcinogenicity studies were in the mice 3-fold and in male rats 8-fold the mean human exposure at 50 
mg, respectively. However, considering the high first pass hepatic metabolism of agomelatine and the 
fact that tumours were observed in liver, it is more appropriate to consider the safety margin based on 
the dose in mg/kg, i.e. about 150- and 50-fold for the mouse and the rat respectively. 
In  rats,  there  was  a  significant  increase  of  mammary  fibroadenomas  in  the  high  dose  groups. 
Agomelatine  reduced  prolactin  levels  in  males,  and  reduced  prolactin  surges  in  females.  However, 
agomelatine had no major effects on normal hormonal functions following repeat administrations up 
to  28  days,  at  exposure  levels  in  the  range  of  those  found  in  the  carcinogenicity  study.  Statistical 
analysis  where  the  results  of  the  incidence  of  mammary  tumours  were  compared  to  the  in  house 
Page 11 of 66 
 
 
 
 
control values concluded on non-statistical difference for males and a statistical significance at 0.01 
for  females  as  compared  to  one  of  the  control  groups.  No  statistical  significance  was  raised  from 
pooled or pair wise comparisons for both males and females. Agomelatine is not mutagenic, does not 
induce a hyperprolactinemic state or hormonal imbalance, and does not accumulate in the mammary 
gland. The applicant therefore concluded that the increase in frequency of mammary fibroadenomas 
(the second most common spontaneous tumour in the female F344) can be regarded as belonging to 
the expected biological variations. Although it was agreed that the incidence of mammary tumour was 
marginal,  probably  occurred  by  a  nongenotoxic  mechanism  with  a  clear  threshold  and  was  species-
specific,  the  concomitant  increased  incidence  in  both  males  and  females  was  difficult  to  be  seen  as 
incidental. On the other hand, a mechanistic explanation was not available and safety margins existed 
relative  to  the  clinical  use.  A  reference  to  the  increased  frequency  of  benign  fibroadenomas  was 
provided in section 5.3 of the SPC proposed by the applicant. The safety margin for liver tumours was 
calculated based on dose and this was considered acceptable due to high first pass metabolism while 
the safety margin for mammary fibroadenomas was calculated based on plasma AUC. The high first 
pass effect did not influence the mammary tumours in the same degree. This information was included 
in section 5.3 of the SPC. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproduction  toxicity  studies  did  not  indicate  any  adverse  effect  of  agomelatine  on  fertility  or  on 
embryonal or foetal development. Only minor effects were seen on T cells in female rats, without any 
effect on T cell-mediated immune responses. 
•  Local tolerance 
Studies on local tolerance on rabbit skin and eye did not indicate any adverse effect. Only mild, early-
onset, transient and reversible ocular changes occurred. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An  environmental  risk  assessment  was  performed  in  the  time  course  of  the  development  of 
agomelatine (S 20098). At that time, the guidance document available was the "Note for guidance on 
environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products  for  human  use"  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 
draft, 24 July 2003). 
Since the PECSURFACE WATER was above 0.01µg/L, a Phase II Tier A assessment was performed. 
The ratios PECSURFACE WATER / PNECWATER and PECSURFACE WATER / PNECMICROORGANISM were below 1, 
and it was concluded that agomelatine is unlikely to present a risk for the aquatic environment and for 
sewage treatment plants. Further, the logKow was below 3 and the Koc was below 10 000 L/kg. It was 
therefore  concluded  that  agomelatine  has  no  potential  to  bioaccumulate  and/or  to  contaminate  the 
terrestrial environment. As a consequence, a Tier B assessment was not necessary. 
In accordance with the updated guideline on environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for 
human  use  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00,  01  June  2006),  more  studies  are  needed  to  identify 
environmental fate and effects of agomelatine: 
- 
- 
- 
the  substance  being  not  biodegradable,  a  water-sediment  study  for  determining 
disappearance of the substance from sediment and water column according to OECD 308; 
the 
a reproduction test with daphnids according to OECD 211; 
an early-life stage toxicity test on fish according to OECD 210. 
These studies are to be performed in future and the time schedule proposed for the availability of the 
reports is Q1/2010. The Environmental Risk Assessment for agomelatine will be revised accordingly 
and an updated version will be submitted once the results of these experiments will be available. 
Page 12 of 66 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A total of 19 pharmacokinetic (or both PK and PD) studies were submitted, with a total of 409 adult 
persons  enrolled  (all  Caucasian).  Two  analytical  assays  were  developed  for  the  analysis  of 
agomelatine (S20098) in biological matrices. An LC-Fluorescence method was initially developed and 
validated in mouse, rat, rabbit, monkey and human plasma and was then used in all pivotal toxicology 
studies.  At  a  later  stage  of  development,  a  more  sensitive  LC-MS/MS  method  was  developed  and 
validated for the analysis of agomelatine in human plasma and saliva samples. In addition, a GC-MS 
method  was  developed  and  validated  in  human  plasma  at  the  CRO  centre  (BIOTEC)  for  further 
routine analysis of melatonin in clinical studies. In parallel to the GC-MS assays, a more rapid LC-
MS/MS  method  was  developed  and  validated  in  another  analytical  CRO  centre  (AAI)  for  the 
measurement of melatonin in human plasma samples. 
The  bioanalytical  method  validations  showed  an  overall  good  performance.  Pharmacokinetic 
parameters  were  calculated  by  using  non-compartmental  methods  and  population  pharmacokinetic 
analysis. Standard statistical methods were applied. 
•  Absorption 
Absorption  of  agomelatine  given  orally  was  rapid.  Median  tmax  from  single  dose  studies  with  doses 
relevant for the posology applied for (25-50 mg) was found to be 0.75-1.5 hours (ranging from 0.5-4 
hours). Following administration of agomelatine in healthy volunteers at 200 mg, 400 mg, or 800 mg, 
the median tmax varied between 1.5 and 2.8h. The intestinal absorption was at least 80 %. The results of 
a Caco-2 cells study showed a complete absorption by passive diffusion and showed that agomelatine 
is not a p-gp substrate (efflux ratio near 1). The permeability was comparable to testosterone, having a 
high Papp-value of approximately 20 x 10-6 cm/s. 
The absolute oral bioavailability of agomelatine was not calculated conventionally by comparing AUC 
values after oral and intravenous administration in the same population, but the mean bioavailability 
was  estimated  to  about  3-4%  in  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis.  Inter-  and  intra-individual 
variability in oral bioavailability was estimated to be 160% and 104%, respectively. In the therapeutic 
dose-range, agomelatine systemic exposure increases roughly proportional with dose. At higher doses 
a saturation of first pass effect occurs. Administration time, gender, oral contraceptives and smoking 
was shown to be a significant determinant of agomelatine bioavailability. The bioavailability estimate 
was 2-fold higher for women compared to men, 3-fold higher in non-smoker women under oestrogen 
treatment  compared  to  non-smoking  women  without  oestrogen  treatment,  and  3-fold  higher  at  a.m. 
administration  compared  to  p.m.  administration.  A  lower  bioavailability  was  observed  among 
smokers, and higher bioavailability was observed in elderly versus younger in some analysis, but the 
data of different studies were conflicting. There was a tendency of a meal to slow down the absorption 
of agomelatine, but AUC was not significantly changed by a meal.  
•  Distribution 
Agomelatine  was  mainly  bound  to  two  major  plasma  proteins,  albumin  and  α1-acid  glycoprotein, 
showing a non-saturable and saturable, respectively, binding of approximately 35 % each. The plasma 
to  blood  concentration  ratio  was  equal  to  1.45.  Agomelatine  is  90-94  %  bound  to  human  plasma 
proteins and protein binding is not concentration-dependent (5-1000 ng/ml). 
The volume of distribution at steady-state (Vss) calculated after intravenous infusion was found to be 
32-37 L while the volume of the central compartment (Vc) was 20-23 L. The apparent central volume 
Page 13 of 66 
of  distribution  after  oral  administration  (Vc/F)  was  estimated  to  be  1880  L.  A  linear  correlation 
(r2 = 0.915) was observed between the plasma and saliva concentrations and saliva concentrations of 
agomelatine were found to represent 2.8% of the plasma concentrations. 
•  Elimination and metabolism 
The total plasma clearance was found to be dose independent (about 1100 ml/min) after i.v. doses of 
1.5 mg, 7.5 mg, or 37.5 mg. The elimination was mainly metabolic, with a very low urinary excretion 
of unchanged drug (0.01% of the dose in the 37.5 mg group). The pharmacokinetics of agomelatine 
was  characterised  by  a  biphasic  decrease  with  mean  half-lives  (t1/2)  of  0.2  and  1.4h,  respectively. 
About  80 %  of  agomelatine  was  excreted  in  the  urine,  mostly  as  metabolites,  and  nearly  20%  was 
excreted in the faeces over a 168 h collection period following a single dose of 50 mg. 
In vitro incubations with pooled human liver microsomes and recombinant enzyme systems revealed 
that  the  main  liver  CYP1A  isoform,  CYP1A2,  was  responsible  for  the  major  metabolism  of 
agomelatine.  CYP2C9  and  CYP2C19  were  also  capable  of  metabolizing  agomelatine,  but  these 
enzymes  were  likely  to  be  of  potential  relevance  only  at  higher  agomelatine  concentrations.  Many 
different  metabolites  of  agomelatine  were  produced  in  human  liver  microsomes  incubations  and  the 
most important pathways in vitro were 3-hydroxylation and 7-desmethylation. CYP1A2 was crucial in 
the  3-hydroxylation,  whereas  CYP2C9  and  CYP2C19  were  dominant  in  the  O-demethylation 
pathway. 
In  in  vivo  studies,  agomelatine  was  found  to  be  mainly  metabolised  by  reactions  including 
3-hydroxylation-7-
3-hydroxylation, 
desmethylation, and 3,4-dihydroxylation. An extensive amount of metabolites are formed in vivo. The 
metabolites were further metabolised principally by glucuronidation and eliminated into the urine. For 
most metabolites t1/2 was found to be between 1 and 3 h, but a few had longer half-lives, up to 5.8 h.  
trans-3,4-dihydrodiol 
7-desmethylation, 
formation, 
A number of affinity studies were performed evaluating the affinity of agomelatine and some major 
metabolites  to  a  large  set  of  receptors.  No  summarised  description  of  the  contribution  of  the 
metabolites  to  the  overall  effect  was  found,  and  many  metabolites  were  present  in  higher 
concentrations in plasma than agomelatine itself. During the procedure the applicant was requested to 
discuss the potential contribution of the stated effect of agomelatine versus the metabolites (considered 
significant) taking  into  account  the  potency  studies  performed,  the  protein  binding  of  the  respective 
metabolite and the  plasma  concentration levels  in comparison to  agomelatine.  It  was concluded  and 
accepted that the majority of the effect reside with agomelatine. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Agomelatine  pharmacokinetics  showed  non-linearity  across  doses  after  oral  administration  (roughly 
proportional  within  the  therapeutic  range),  but  not  after  intravenous  administration.  This  was 
explained by an extensive first pass metabolism, which becomes partly saturated with increasing dose. 
In  a  study  where  200-800  mg  agomelatine  OD  was  given  for  7  days,  no  time-dependent  change  in 
exposure  was  observed.  Based  on  these  data  and  the  theophylline  interaction  data  it  was  concluded 
that there is probably no significant time dependency. 
•  Variability 
The  variability  in  drug  exposure  (AUC)  after  oral  administration  varied  between  different  studies, 
from  approximately  100-150%  CV  due  to  the  variability  in  first  pass  metabolism.  Inter-individual 
differences  is  the  main  contributor  to  this  variability,  although  the  intra-individual  variability  is 
considerable: inter-and intra-individual variability for absolute bioavailability was estimated to 157% 
CV and 104% CV and corresponding figures for CL were 22%CV and 11% CV, respectively. 
•  Special populations 
Target  population:  Pharmacokinetic  differences  between  healthy  subjects  and  patients  were  not 
observed and were considered to be unlikely. 
Impaired  renal  function:  The  effects  of  renal  function  of  agomelatine  pharmacokinetics  were 
investigated in Study PKH-015, which included healthy volunteers and patients with severe impaired 
Page 14 of 66 
renal  function  (creatinine  clearance  (CLcr)  <30  ml/min),  receiving  a  single  oral  dose  of  25  mg 
agomelatine.  This  study  revealed  that  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  the  Cmax  and  AUC 
increased  approximately  40  and  25  %  respectively,  compared  to  healthy  subjects.  Even  if  it  was 
agreed  that  there  were  no  relevant  modification  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  observed  in  patients 
with severe renal impairment, only limited clinical data were available in these patients. As a result, a 
precaution  for  use  of  agomelatine  in  these  patients  has  been  introduced  in  the  SPC.  (The  effects  of 
agomelatine in renal impaired patients are further discussed in the Clinical Safety section – “Safety in 
special populations”). 
Impaired liver function: A specific study (PKH-014) investigated the influence of liver insufficiency 
in  patients  with  hepatic  cirrhosis  on  plasma  levels  of  agomelatine.  In  patients  with  mild  hepatic 
impairment  the  increase  in  AUC  and  Cmax  was  on  average  70  and  60  –fold,  respectively,  compared 
with healthy subjects. Corresponding figures for moderate hepatic impairment were 140- and 110-fold, 
respectively, compared with healthy subjects (see table below). The unbound fraction of agomelatine 
was  increased  in  subjects  with  hepatic  insufficiency,  and  approximately  doubled  in  patients  with 
moderate hepatic impairment. 
Table 1: Mean pharmacokinetic parameters of agomelatine administered at 25 mg in healthy subjects and subjects with mild 
and moderate hepatic impairment. 
A  contraindication  in  all  patients  with  liver  disease  resulting  in  hepatic  impairment  was  initially 
proposed in the product information, and a strengthened amendment of this contraindication (i.e. in all 
patients with hepatic impairment – i.e. cirrhosis and active liver disease) was proposed. However this 
precautionary action alone was considered to be not sufficient to assure a safe use of this product, as 
there were no safety data at these exposures and it was considered that to avoid usage in patients with 
mild  hepatic  impairment  was  difficult.  According  to  the  applicant  agomelatine  is  well  tolerated  in 
patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, however the overall safety in these patients could 
not be firmly concluded based on a total of 16 patients with a single dose administration and the very 
large exposure increase observed. A major objection was therefore raised during the procedure with 
respect  to  safety  in  this  subpopulation.  The  actual  exposures  obtained  were  not  sufficiently  covered 
with  phase  II/III  data  .  In  addition,  when  relevant  fractions  unbound  differences  were  taken  into 
account, the  exposure  differences  were even  larger (see  table  above).  However, the contraindication 
for use of agomelatine in all patients with hepatic impairment was considered to be sufficient provided 
that the applicant committed to monitor the LFT at initiation and regularly during the treatment period 
for both 25 mg and 50mg dosing, until more data were to become available on the timing and duration 
of liver function monitoring. 
Gender:  It  was  indicated  that  females  have  on  average  a  2-fold  higher  relative  bioavailability 
compared  with  men.  The  population  PK  analysis  also  indicated  that  co-administration  of  oral 
estrogens  results  on  average  in  a  3-fold  increase  in  relative  bioavailability,  in  non-smoking  women 
only. 
Weight:  A  lack  of  effect  on  weight  could  not  be  made  formally,  since the effect  on  weight  was  not 
assessed properly in the population analysis.  
Page 15 of 66 
 
 
 
 
Race:  No  studies  were  performed  to  evaluate  the  possible  influence  of  race  on  pharmacokinetics  of 
agomelatine. During the procedure the applicant was requested to discuss this. A number of references 
were submitted. It was considered that genetic factors alone were unlikely to cause the high variability 
observed with CYP1A2 substrates. However, no specific study on this was performed. 
Elderly: In study PKH-010, a single dose study evaluating the effect of smoking, age and gender, no 
effect of age on agomelatine pharmacokinetics was found. The influence of age was also evaluated in 
three population pharmacokinetic studies (NP06724, NP15939 and NP23957). In NP06724, a 3.8-fold 
higher exposure was observed in older (mean 78-y; n=80) compared to younger (30-y; n=37) subjects, 
but higher frequencies of smokers in latter group may have been a confounding factor. In NP15939 
and NP23957, age was not shown to be a significant determinant of agomelatine bioavailability. 
No effect of age was found in the final population analysis, but the data did not include subjects above 
the age of 78 years. 
Children: No studies were performed to evaluate pharmacokinetics in children. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro 
No relevant protein binding interactions were observed with highly plasma protein bound drugs. The 
in  vitro  studies  revealed  that  CYP1A2  is  the  major  enzyme  involved  in  the  hepatic  metabolism  of 
agomelatine. Thus,  CYP1A2  inhibitors and inducers  were  considered  able  to  affect the  clearance  of 
agomelatine.  It  was  shown  that  CYP2C9  and  CYP2C19  are  also  involved  in  the  metabolism  of 
agomelatine, which was further investigated in the in vivo studies. 
The  Ki  values  for  inhibition  by  agomelatine  of  CYP1A2  and  CYP3A4  were  3.68  µM  and  39.5  µM 
respectively. These values were approximately 10 and 100-fold higher than the plasma concentrations 
normally obtained with a 50 mg dose. Therefore, from the in vitro data on CYP1A2, it could not be 
excluded that agomelatine does not inhibit CYP1A2 in vivo. 
In  the  in  vitro  study  NP15748  with  primary  human  hepatocytes,  a  potentially  relevant  induction  of 
CYP1A2 activity by agomelatine was observed. 
In vivo 
Antipyrine  was  metabolised  via  several  CYP  enzymes  and  was  not  an  optimal  substrate  to  evaluate 
CYP1A2 induction. Antipyrine is an old probe substrate used mainly in the past for detecting effects 
of modulation of cytochrome P450 enzyme activity. During the procedure the applicant was requested 
to  discuss  the  possibility  to  detect  not  only  potent  induction  but  also  modest  to  moderate  induction 
when using antipyrine as probe substrate. The theophylline interaction study evaluated the inhibition 
potential  of agomelatine  on  CYP1A2  and showed  an  absence of an effect.  However,  a longer  study 
was considered necessary to properly assess the potential CYP1A2 inducing capacity of agomelatine. 
There  were limitations in  the  induction  study,  however  given that  a  5-fold  dose  of  agomelatine  was 
administered and that no induction on antipyrine was observed, it was concluded that agomelatine is 
likely not a relevant CYP1A2 inducer (even though a mild inducing effect on CYP1A2 could not be 
excluded). It was concluded that most likely agomelatine is not a CYP1A2 inhibitor. 
Co-administration of fluvoxamine resulted in an approximately 50 and 60-fold increase for Cmax and 
AUC respectively. The effect was also very variable, with a range of individual exposure ratios of 12-
412.  The  concomitant  use  of  potent  CYP1A2  inhibitors  (e.g.  fluvoxamine,  ciprofloxacin)  is 
contraindicated (Section 4.2 of the SPC). 
The  CYP1A2  inducing  effect  of  smoking  was  variable  as  expected.  The  effect  predicted  in  the 
population analysis was a 50 % reduction in the relative bioavailability. Exposure among smokers was 
1/3-1/4 compared to non-smokers. 
No  significant  pharmacokinetic  interactions  were  observed  between  agomelatine  and  lithium, 
lorazepam, fluconazole, paroxetine and ethanol. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  using  human  biomaterials  are  described  above  in  connection  with  in  vitro 
plasma protein binding studies, binding interaction studies between agomelatine and selected drugs to 
Page 16 of 66 
human  plasma  proteins  and  studies  on  agomelatine  ex  vivo  binding  to  proteins  in  different  groups 
(healthy  young  and  elderly  smoker/non  smoker  male  and  female  volunteers,  patients  with  impaired 
hepatic and renal function).  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
In vitro, agomelatine showed to act selectively as an agonist at both melatonin MT1 and MT2 receptors 
and as an antagonist at 5-HT2C receptors and at 5-HT2B receptors. Agomelatine did not interact with 
adenosine,  adrenergic,  dopamine,  GABA,  muscarinic,  nicotinic,  histamine,  excitatory  amino  acid, 
benzodiazepine and sigma receptors, or with sodium, potassium or calcium channels. 
In vivo, agomelatine elicited a dose-dependent elevation in extracellular levels of both dopamine and 
noradrenaline in the frontal cortex of freely moving rats, which probably involves blockade of 5-HT2C 
receptors. Agomelatine showed to have effect on resynchronization of circadian rhythms in different 
animal  species,  and  this  effect  was  thought  to  involve  the  melatoninergic  action  via  MT1  and  MT2 
receptors. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Agomelatine  showed  only  minor  biological  effects  in  the  phase  I  and  II  pharmacodynamic  studies. 
Sleep  EEG  indicated  a  possible  sleep  improvement  and  an  advance  in  sleep  onset  at  low  doses  of 
agomelatine. Wake EEG after morning administration of agomelatine pointed towards a mild sedative 
effect. The results of wake EEG after evening administration were inconclusive. Different subjective 
rating scales indicated no powerful sedative or activating effect in healthy volunteers. As an adverse 
event, sedation was observed in healthy volunteers independently of administration time (morning or 
evening).  For  the  core  body  temperature,  a  slight  but  not  consistent  temperature  decrease  was 
observed.  Comparing  venlafaxine  and  agomelatine  with  regard  to  sexual  function  and  sexual 
dysfunction,  there  was  a  numerical  trend  in  favour  of  agomelatine  on  all  scores.  Only  some  of  the 
secondary  measures  showed  statistically  significant  differences.  In  healthy  volunteers  agomelatine 
preserved sexual function in comparison with paroxetine. 
The minor biological effects shown raised the question whether the chosen dose of agomelatine was 
appropriate. Of the early phase I and II studies, only one study was actually performed with the 25 mg 
dose of agomelatine, which was the dose chosen for the phase III clinical trials. 
Some  observations  perhaps  indicated  that  the  evening  administration  of  agomelatine  was  to  be 
preferred to the morning administration; sleep EEG showed an increase in stage 3 duration of sleep, 
after  repeated  administration  of  agomelatine  in  the  evening.  The  morning  administration  of 
agomelatine was accompanied by mild sedation, as evaluated by objective sleep parameters. 
The  effects  of  agomelatine  on  QT  interval  were  evaluated  in  two  specific  studies.  In  the  first  study 
only  13  subjects  were  exposed  to  agomelatine.  Agomelatine  did  not  seem  to  cause  any  clinically 
meaningful changes in cardiac depolarization. However, during the procedure the applicant was asked 
to justify the very low number of subjects in the agomelatine group. In response, the applicant referred 
to a newly performed study (CL1-054) including 56 subjects (28 males and 28 females) which showed 
that  single  doses  of  agomelatine  50  mg  and  400  mg  fulfilled  the  demands  set  out  in  the 
CHMP/ICH/2/04 “Note for guidance on the clinical evaluation of QT/QTc Interval prolongation and 
proarrhytmic potential for non-antiarrhytmic drugs”. 
No  clear  relationship  between  pharmacokinetic  parameters  and  pharmacodynamic  (antidepressant) 
effect  was  shown.  However,  in  the  only  study  designed  for  this  evaluation,  saliva  samples  and  not 
plasma  samples  were  used  for  the  measurement  of  agomelatine  concentration.  This  made  the 
interpretation  of  the  data  rather  complex.  However,  it  was  unlikely  that  a  clear  correlation  between 
plasma levels and pharmacodynamic properties could be demonstrated. 
No pharmacodynamic drug interactions were observed between agomelatine and ethanol and between 
agomelatine and lorazepam. 
Page 17 of 66 
 
Clinical efficacy 
The  main  clinical  documentation  for  agomelatine  consists  of  one  short-term  pilot  study  (CL2-007), 
one  dose-finding  study  (CL2-014)  and  five  other  short-term  studies  (CL3-022,  CL3-023,  CL3-024, 
CL3-042 and CL3-043). In addition, two relapse prevention studies were performed for the evaluation 
of  maintenance  of  effect  (CL3-021  and  CL3-041).  Data  from  five  supportive  studies  were  also 
provided, as well as data from a placebo-controlled study in an elderly population (CL3-026). Long-
term effect was also studied in double-blind extensions of the short-term studies CL3-022 and CL3-
035. Studies in children were not performed. 
The main clinical studies were all multicentre, double-blind and placebo controlled (Table 2). Some of 
the short-term studies included an active control as well. 
Table 2: Summary of clinical efficacy studies on agomelatine. 
Study 
ID 
Study 
Objective 
No of 
Subjects 
Study Posology 
Design 
Duration 
Diagn. 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Extension 
CL2-
007 
CL2-
014 
CL3-
042 
CL3-
043 
CL3-
022 
CL3-
023 
CL3-
024 
CL3-
026 
CL3-
021 
CL3-
041 
CL3-
025 
Randomised 
parallel 
groups 
Randomised  
double blind  
parallel 
groups 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Agomelatine 5 
and 100 mg o.d. 
Pilot study - 
Efficacy 
28 
4 weeks  MDD 
MADRS 
4 weeks 
Agomelatine 1, 5 
and 25 mg o.d. 
vs placebo.  
Active control 
paroxetine 20 
mg o.d. 
Agomelatine 25-
50 mg o.d. vs 
placebo 
Agomelatine 25-
50 mg o.d. vs 
placebo 
Agomelatine 25 
mg 
Fluoxetine 20 
mg 
Placebo 
Agomelatine 25 
mg 
Paroxetine 20 
mg 
Placebo 
Agomelatine 25 
mg 
Agomelatine50 
mg 
Fluoxetine 20 
mg 
Placebo 
Agomelatine 25 
mg 
Placebo 
Efficacy and 
safety 
711 
8 weeks 
MDD 
Bipolar II 
HAM-D 
Efficacy and 
safety 
Efficacy and 
safety 
Efficacy and 
safety 
Efficacy and 
safety 
Efficacy and 
safety 
Efficacy and 
safety 
in elderly 
patients 
238 
6 weeks  MDD 
HAM-D 
46 weeks  
212 
6 weeks  MDD 
HAM-D 
46 weeks 
419 
6 weeks  MDD 
HAM-D 
18 weeks 
418 
6 weeks  MDD 
HAM-D 
18 weeks 
607 
6 weeks  MDD 
HAM-D 
18 weeks 
220 
6 weeks  MDD 
MADRS 
18 weeks 
Agomelatine 25 
mg vs. placebo 
Relapse 
prevention 
Agomelatine 25 
mg and 50 mg 
vs. placebo 
Agomelatine 25,  
25-50 mg o.d. 
Relapse 
prevention 
Efficacy and 
safety 
Dose 
escalation 
Partial 
367 
34 weeks  MDD 
HAM-D 
18 weeks 
339 
34 weeks  MDD 
HAM-D 
20 weeks 
448 
4 + 4 
weeks 
MDD with 
partial 
response to 
4 weeks / 
25 mg 
HAM-D 
16 weeks 
+ 
optional 
24 weeks 
open 
Page 18 of 66 
 
 
 
CL3-
036 
CL3-
035 
Randomised 
double blind 
parallel 
groups 
Agomelatine 50 
mg 
Venlafaxine 150 
mg 
Randomised 
double-blind 
parallel 
groups 
Agomelatine 25 
mg or 50 mg 
(from W2) 
Venlafaxine 75 
mg or 150 mg 
(from W2) 
responders 
Sexual 
function of 
remitted 
patients 
Short-term: 
Sleep  
Long-term: 
Depression 
•  Dose response studies 
277 
12 weeks  MDD 
SEX FX 
12 weeks 
334 
6 weeks  MDD 
Sleep: 
LSEQ 
Depression: 
Short-term: 
HAM-D 
Long-term: 
CGI 
18 weeks 
Study CL2-007 
The  pilot  study  CL2-007  compared  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  agomelatine  administered  orally  at  a 
dose of 5 or 100 mg once a day for one month after a 7 day placebo run-in period. Agomelatine was 
administered to 30 patients of both genders, aged between 18 and 65 years, with a single or recurrent 
major  depressive  episode  without  psychotic  symptoms  according  to  DSMIII-R  criteria.  A  minimum 
score of 25 on MADRS (Montgomery Åsberg Depression Rating Scale) was required at inclusion. 
The  main  objective  of this  study  was  to  assess agomelatine’s  tolerability  and  antidepressant  activity 
and its effect on sleep and wake cycle and a possible resynchronisation of circadian rhythms. 
The main criteria were the MADRS total score; CGI (Clinical Global Impression) therapeutic index; 
actigraphy  (duration  of  sleep,  night  activity  index,  daily  average  activity),  and  the  Spiegel  Sleep 
Questionnaire. No formal statistical assumptions were made. 
30 patients were selected, 28 patients were randomised (14 in each treatment group), 19 completed the 
study,  9  discontinued  treatment  prematurely:  4  in  the  agomelatine  5  mg  group  due  to  adverse  event 
(1), lack of efficacy (2), major protocol deviation (1), 5 in agomelatine 100 mg group due to adverse 
event (1), lack of efficacy (2), non medical reason (1), major protocol deviation (1). 
No  significant  differences  between  the  two  doses  of  agomelatine  were  observed  on  any  of  the 
variables studied.  Within  group analyses revealed  a  similar  decrease  in  the MADRS  score  after  one 
month  on  both the  5  mg  and  the  100  mg  agomelatine  groups  (15.8  and 13.0  points  respectively)  as 
compared with baseline values. This total score decrease was significant and was judged as clinically 
relevant  since the  score  was  decreased  by  at  least  50%  in  80%  of  patients  in the  agomelatine  5  mg 
group and in 78% of patients in the agomelatine 100 mg group. 
The  average  score  for  the  CGI  therapeutic  index  was  2.6  in  each  treatment  at  the  last  evaluation, 
indicating an improvement of symptoms and few adverse events. 
The  actigraphy  evaluation  revealed  no  significant  difference  at  D28  compared  to  baseline  for  any 
parameters. 
The  Spiegel  Sleep  Questionnaire  revealed  that  there  was  a  significant  improvement  of  time  to  fall 
asleep, quality of sleep and condition in the morning at D28 compared to baseline with both doses: the 
scores were increased by one point from average to good. 
Study CL2-014 
Study CL2-014 was a multicentre, multinational, double-blind, randomised, controlled versus placebo 
with  five  parallel  groups,  one  of  which  being  a  positive  control  group  (paroxetine)  to  ensure  the 
sensitivity of the study. 
Patients were aged between 18 and 65 years inclusive, suffering from a single or recurrent episodes of 
major  depressive  or  bipolar  II  disorders  diagnosed  according  to  the  DSM-IV  criteria,  with  a  total 
HDRS score (17-item version) >4, were included in the trial. After the run-in period, patients with a 
total  HDRS  score  (17-item  version)  >22  at  W0  without  a  decrease  of  more  than  20%  between  the 
selection and inclusion visits and CGI severity score ≥4 were randomised. 
Page 19 of 66 
 
 
Overall,  baseline  characteristics  were  similar  and  no  between-group  differences  of  importance  were 
present.  Of  the  711  patients  that  were  randomised,  approximately  two  thirds  were  female  patients 
(66.5%) and one third were male patients (33.5%). Their age ranged from 19 to 65 years with a mean 
of 42.3 years. Most patients had major depressive disorders (98.2%) with recurrent episodes (67.0%), 
and  1.8%  had  bipolar  II  disorders.  39.8%  of  patients  had  an  endogenous  depressive  disorder.  The 
current  episode  had a  mean  duration  of  5 +10  months. The  mean  total  HDRS  score  at  baseline  was 
27.4. 
Agomelatine was given in daily doses of 1 mg, 5 mg and 25 mg. Placebo was given twice daily, and 
paroxetine was given once daily (20 mg during treatment period and 10 mg during follow-up period). 
The study included a 1-week run-in placebo period (W-1), 8-week double-blind treatment period (W0-
W8), and a 2-week follow-up period (W10) (paroxetine 10 mg in the paroxetine group and placebo in 
the other groups, or optional antidepressant treatment in all treatment groups, or no treatment). 
The main objective was to detect a difference between any of the 3 different doses of agomelatine and 
placebo  using  the  Hamilton  Depression  Rating  Scale  (HDRS)  in  out-  or  in-patients  with  major 
depressive disorders or bipolar II disorders without seasonal pattern treated for 8 weeks. 
Secondary objectives were to assess the effects on sleep by the mean of Spiegel sleep questionnaire 
and the safety of 3 different doses of agomelatine compared to placebo. 
HDRS was assessed at each visit, and the primary endpoint was the total score of HDRS at the end of 
treatment. Response to treatment defined as an improvement of 50% in the HDRS score at the end and 
over treatment period was also assessed. 
Secondary endpoints were MADRS and Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HARS) assessed at W0, W4, 
and W8, CGI, response to treatment defined as a CGI item 2 (global improvement of illness) <3 at the 
end of treatment period, Hopkins Symptom Check-List (HSCL), and the Spiegel sleep questionnaire. 
The  total  number  of  patients  planned  to  be  included  was  650  (130  per  group).  The  total  number  of 
patients actually included was 711 (147 in the paroxetine group, 139 in the placebo group, 141 in the 
agomelatine at 1 mg, 147 in the agomelatine at 5 mg and 137 in the agomelatine at 25 mg groups). 
Assay sensitivity was demonstrated by the inclusion of a group of patients receiving paroxetine 20 mg.  
At  the  end  of  treatment  the  mean  total  HDRS  score  was  significantly  lower  (p  =  0.030)  in  the 
paroxetine  (13.09)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (15.34)  with  an  estimated  difference  of  2.25.  The 
observed  percentage  of  responders  (defined  as a  decrease of  at least  50% in  total  score)  was  higher 
with paroxetine (56.25%) than with placebo (46.32%), but not statistically significant (p = 0.097). The 
time to first response differed significantly between paroxetine and placebo (p = 0.038); the estimated 
first response rate was higher with paroxetine from 28 treatment days onwards. 
Efficacy of agomelatine: Mean HAM-D total scores at baseline were in the range 27.3 to 27.9. At the 
end of treatment there was a significant difference in HDRS between the treatment groups (p = 0.037) 
in  the  FAS.  Pairwise  comparisons  with  placebo  demonstrated  that  the  mean  total  HDRS  score  was 
significantly  lower  in  the  agomelatine  25  mg  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  with  an  estimated 
difference  of  2.57.  No  statistically  significant  differences  between  agomelatine  and  placebo  were 
observed in the PP set. 
In addition to comparing mean changes in total score, efficacy was assessed by response at the end of 
treatment  (decrease  of  50%  in  total  HDRS  score).  The  percentage  of  responders  was  46.3%  in  the 
placebo group, 62.5% in the agomelatine 1 mg group, 51.4% in the 5 mg group, and 61.5% in the 25 
mg group.  At the end of treatment there was a significant difference between the treatment groups (p 
= 0.016). The percentage of responders was significantly higher with agomelatine at 1 mg and 25 mg 
than with placebo, with estimated differences of 16.2% and 15.2% respectively. The response rate in 
the 5 mg group was not statistically significant from placebo (estimated difference 5.1%). There was 
no statistically significant difference between agomelatine and placebo in the PP set.  
Time  to  first  response  was  statistically  significantly  different  between  the  treatment  groups  (p  = 
0.017). Pairwise comparisons showed a significant difference for both agomelatine 1 mg and 25 mg as 
compared to placebo, but not for the 5 mg group. 
Page 20 of 66 
Secondary assessment criteria: At the end of treatment there was a statistically significant difference in 
total  MADRS  score  between  the  treatment  groups  (p  =  0.050):  pair  wise  comparisons  with  placebo 
showed  it  to  be  significantly  lower  in  the  agomelatine  25  mg  group  than  in  the  placebo  group 
(estimated mean difference = 3.6). 
•  Main studies 
Study CL3-042 and study CL3-043 (parallel groups, placebo-controlled short-term studies) 
Methods 
Study Participants 
Studies CL3-042 and CL3-043 included in- or out-patients, male or female, aged between 18 and 65 
years (inclusive), with a current moderate to severe episode of Major Depressive Disorder (DSM-IV), 
with a HAM-D total score at least equal to 22, and requiring an antidepressant treatment. 
Treatments 
Patients  were  randomised  between  agomelatine  25  mg  and  placebo  with  the  option  to  increase  the 
dose  to  50  mg  after  2  weeks  if  necessary  (in  case  of  insufficient  improvement).  The  patients 
randomised to active treatment took 2 tablets (agomelatine 25 mg + placebo) once daily in the evening 
from  the  beginning  of  the  study  in  order  to  maintain  the  blind  after  the  potential  adjustment  of  the 
dosage  at  week  2.  Patients  randomised  to  placebo  took  2  placebo  tablets  throughout.  During  the 
extension  period,  patients  from  the  placebo  group  and  from  the  agomelatine  25  mg  group  were  to 
receive 25 mg agomelatine and those on agomelatine 50 mg were to continue under agomelatine 50 
mg in double blind conditions. 
Total treatment duration was 52 weeks: a 1-week run-in period without treatment, a 6-week double-
blind mandatory treatment period from W0 to W6 (with intermediary visits at W2 and W4), a 46-week 
optional extension treatment period until W52 under agomelatine, and a 1-week follow-up period after 
treatment discontinuation. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  these  two  studies  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  agomelatine  (25  mg  with 
potential adjustment at 50 mg) compared to placebo. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable was Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) 17 items total score at 
6 weeks measured at each visit. 
Sample size 
In  order  to  detect  a  mean  difference  of  4  on  the  HAM-D  total  score  with  90%  power  at  the  5% 
significance  level,  and  assuming  a  standard  deviation  of  9,  107  patients  had  to  be  included  in  each 
group. This corresponds to 80% power to detect a difference of 3.5. For Study CL3-042 a total of 238 
patients were included, 118 in the agomelatine group and 120 in the placebo group. For Study CL3-
043 a total of 212 patients were included, 107 in the agomelatine group and 105 in the placebo group. 
Randomisation 
The randomisation of the two treatments was non-adaptive, balanced, stratified on the centre and was 
performed using permutation blocks of fixed size 4. At the end of W2 the allocation to “dose increase” 
was generated centrally, based on the HAM-D total score at W0 and W2 and CGI score at W2. 
Blinding (masking) 
Dose escalation was blind to investigator and patient. 
Statistical methods 
Page 21 of 66 
 
 
Agomelatine and placebo were compared over W0-W6 period HAM-D Total Score by the two sample 
t test and two-way analysis of covariance including the factors group and centre (random effect) with 
baseline  as  a  covariate  and  without  interaction.  Missing  values  were  imputed  by  last  observation 
carried forward. 
Results 
Table 3: Patient disposition in study CL3-042 
Table 4: Patient disposition in study CL3-043 
For both studies there were no patients lost to follow-up. For Study CL3-042 there were approximately 
15%  of  patients  who  discontinued  treatment  in  both  groups  (17  out  of  118  in  the  25-50  mg 
agomelatine group and 18 out of 120 in the placebo group). For Study CL3-043 there were 6.5% (7 
out of 107) of patients who discontinued treatment in the 25-50 mg agomelatine group, and 11.4% (12 
out of 105) patients who discontinued treatment in the placebo group. 
Page 22 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
For study CL3-042 patients were recruited in the period August 2002 – April 2004. For study CL3-
043 patients were recruited in the period October 2002 – June 2003. 
Conduct of the studies 
These  were  multicentre,  multinational  (according  to  Amendment  No.  1),  randomised,  double-blind, 
two parallel groups, placebo controlled, 6-week studies with possible adjustment of the dosage after 2 
weeks of study treatment. The criteria for dose increase were defined prior to study start and the dose 
increase and the treatment allocation were made centrally using IVRS in a double-blind procedure, so 
that both the patients and the investigators were blind to the dose increase. The mandatory period was 
followed by an optional extension period of 46 weeks on agomelatine. As there was no control group 
in the extention period (all patients were treated with agomelatine), only safety data are relevant for 
this period. 
Baseline data 
With  the  exception  of  almost  twice  as  many  patients  with  a  previous  suicide  attempt  in  the 
agomelatine  group  (17.8%  patients)  compared  to placebo (9.2%  patients)  Study  CL3-042  was  fairly 
well balanced. Of the 238 patients that were randomised, approximately 73.5% were female patients, 
and 26.5% were male patients. Their age ranged from 18 to 65 years, with a mean age of 45 years old. 
Single  episode  MDD  patients  were  26.3% in  the  agomelatine  group  and  20%  in  the  placebo  group. 
MDD patients with recurrent episodes were 73.7% in the agomelatine group and 80% in the placebo 
group. 
For  Study  CL3-043  there  were  more  men  in  the  placebo  group  compared  to  the  agomelatine  group 
(45%  and  35%,  respectively).  Otherwise  the  treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  with  respect  to 
demographic  and  disease  characteristics.  The  age  of  the  212  patients  that  were  randomised  ranged 
from 18 to 65 years, with a mean age of 42.5 years old. Single episode MDD patients were 19.6% in 
the agomelatine group and 26.7% in the placebo group. MDD patients with recurrent episodes were 
80.4% in the agomelatine group and 73.3% in the placebo group. 
Numbers analysed 
In  CL3-042  and  CL3-043  studies  the  full  analysis  set  (FAS)  included  respectively:  116  and  106 
patients in the agomelatine group and 119 and 105 patients in the placebo group. The observed cases 
W6  set  for  CL3-042  and  CL3-043  respectively  included:  104  and  100  patients  in  the  agomelatine 
group and 106 and 94 patients in the placebo group. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Response to treatment 
For Study CL3-042 a statistically significant mean difference of 3.18 on the HAM-D total score was 
observed in the FAS. Similar estimates were obtained in the observed cases set and with adjustment 
for centre and baseline. 
In the FAS, 54.3% of the patients in the agomelatine group versus 35.3% in the placebo group were 
responders  (response  defined  as  decrease  of  at  least  50%  in  the  HAM-D  total  score  between  the 
baseline and the concerned visit) at the last post-baseline evaluation (p = 0.003). 
At  the  end  of  the  second  week  of  treatment  (W2),  the  dose  was  adapted  for  29  patients  under 
agomelatine and for 54 patients under placebo in the FAS.  In this group the percentage of responders 
reached  48.3%  in  the  agomelatine  25-50  mg  group  versus  25.9%  in  the  “placebo  increased”  group.  
The benefit of agomelatine over placebo was also shown in the Observed Cases W6 Set, where 57.7% 
of the patients in the agomelatine group versus 39.6% in the placebo group responded to the treatment 
(p = 0.009). The results were confirmed in subgroups of patients with higher scores of HAM-D and/or 
CGI at baseline. 
Page 23 of 66 
 
In  the  FAS  as  well  as in  the  other  efficacy  sets  the percentage  of  patients  in  remission  at  last  post-
baseline evaluation was higher in the agomelatine group than in the placebo group (in the FAS: 17.2% 
versus 11.8%, respectively). 
For Study CL3-043 the last post baseline value of the HAM-D total score in the FAS was statistically 
significantly lower in the agomelatine group than in the placebo group (14.1 vs 16.5) with a p-value of 
0.022. Similar results were obtained after adjustment for centre and baseline. 
The  benefit  of  agomelatine  versus  placebo  demonstrated  in  the  FAS  was  more  pronounced  in 
subgroups  of  patients  with  higher  scores  of  HAM-D  and/or  CGI  at  baseline.  In  the  Observed  Cases 
W6 Set, mean values of HAM-D total score at W6 were 13.7 in the agomelatine group versus 15.9 in 
the placebo group (p = 0.042), with an estimated difference of 2.10. A similar number of patients in 
both groups had a dose adaptation (increase to 50 mg): 36 patients on agomelatine and 38 patients on 
placebo. 
In the FAS, 49.1% of the patients in the agomelatine group versus 34.3% in the placebo group were 
responders  (response  defined  as  decrease  of  at  least  50%  in  the  HAM-D  total  score  between  the 
baseline  and  the  concerned  visit)  at  last  post-baseline  evaluation.  The  estimated  between-group 
difference was -14.8 (p = 0.030). 
In  the  FAS  as  well  as  in  the  other  efficacy  sets,  the  percentage  of  patients  in  remission  at  last  post 
baseline evaluation was numerically higher in the agomelatine group than in the placebo group (in the 
FAS: 20.8% versus 13.3%, respectively; not statistically significantly different). 
Studies CL3-022, CL3-023 and CL3-024 (parallel groups, positive-controlled, short-term studies 
with extension phase) 
Methods 
Study Participants 
Male or female out- or in-patients, aged between 18 and 59 years (inclusive), suffering from a single 
or  recurrent  episode  of  Major  Depressive  Disorder  according  to  DSM-IV  criteria,  with  or  without 
melancholic  features,  without  atypical  features  (with  or  without  seasonal  pattern  for  CL3-023  and  -
024), and without psychotic features were included in each of these 3 studies. Eligibility criteria were 
a HAM-D Total score ≥22 at inclusion. CL3-022 had additional criteria that the decrease in HAM-D 
Total score should not be more than 20% between start of run-in and inclusion visits, and a severity of 
illness ≥4 on the Clinical Global Impression scale (CGI). 
Treatments 
In  Study  CL3-022  agomelatine  25  mg  was  given  once  daily  as  an  oral  capsule  (tablet  masked  in 
capsule),  to  be  taken  in  the  evening,  in  association  with  a  placebo  capsule  taken  in  the  morning. 
Placebo  was  given  as  an  oral  capsule  twice  a  day.  Fluoxetine  (positive  control product)  20  mg  was 
given once daily as an oral capsule, in the morning, in association with a placebo capsule taken in the 
evening. The study comprised a single blind run-in placebo period with a duration ranging from 7 to 
14  days,  an  active  double-blind  placebo-controlled  treatment  period  of  6  weeks  (W0  to  W6),  an 
optional double-blind placebo-controlled extension treatment period of 18 weeks (W6 to W24), and a 
follow-up period of one week without treatment (W7 or W25). 
Study CL3-023 followed a protocol and duration treatment similar to CL3-022, however in this study 
Paroxetine (20mg), not Fluoxetine, was used as the positive control. 
Study  CL3-024  also  followed  a  protocol  and  duration  treatment  similar  to  CL3-022,  with  the  same 
active comparator (Fluoxetine 20 mg). The main difference was the addition of a separate treatment 
arm where patients received the 50 mg tablets. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  these  studies  was  to  confirm  the  efficacy  of  the  target  dose  agomelatine 
compared to placebo. 
Page 24 of 66 
The  sensitivity  of  the  studies  was  checked  by  comparing  the  effect  of  the  active  comparator 
(fluoxetine 20 mg or paroxetine 20 mg) to placebo. A secondary objective in Study CL3-024 was to 
study the efficacy of agomelatine 50 mg given orally. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable was the last post-baseline value of HAM-D total score assessed by the 
investigator.  Secondary  endpoints  were  CGI,  Montgomery  and  Åsberg  Depression  Rating  Scale 
(MADRS), Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A), and the Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire 
(LSEQ). All but the latter were assessed by the investigator. 
Sample size 
In  order  to  detect  a  mean  difference  of  4  on  the  HAM-D  total  score  with  90%  power  at  the  5% 
significance  level,  and  assuming  a  standard  deviation  of  9,  107  patients  had  to  be  included  in  each 
group. This corresponds to 80% power to detect a difference of 3.5. 
A total of 420 patients from 74 centres were included and 419 randomised in Study CL3-022 (133 in 
the agomelatine group, 149 in the placebo group and 137 in the fluoxetine group). 
A total of 418 patients were included from a total of 45 centres in 10 countries in Study CL3-023 (142 
in the agomelatine group, 137 in the placebo group and 138 in the paroxetine group). 
For  Study  CL3-024  the  total  number  of  patients  planned  to  be  included  was  520  (130  per  group), 
calculated  on  the  basis  of  a  relevant  difference  of  3.5  points  at  the  final  HAM-D  scores  between 
treatment  groups,  with  α  =  5%,  β=10%,  and  a standard  deviation  of  9.  A  total of  607  patients  were 
actually  included in this  study  and  were recruited  from  75  centres  in  7  countries  (150 in the 25  mg 
agomelatine  group,  151  in  the  50  mg  agomelatine  group,  158  in  the  placebo  group  and  148  in  the 
fluoxetine group). 
Randomisation 
The  randomisation  of  treatments  (agomelatine,  placebo,  fluoxetine  or  paroxetine)  was  non-adaptive, 
non-centralised, and balanced  with  a  1:1:1 ratio. There  was  no  stratification  and  permutation  blocks 
were of fixed size = 6. 
Blinding (masking) 
Agomelatine, placebo and fluoxetine (or paroxetine) were disguised in tablets or capsules (or tablets) 
of identical appearance and taste. 
Statistical methods 
Short term (W0-W6 period) efficacy analyses 
For each HAM-D analytical approach, fluoxetine or paroxetine was compared to the placebo with the 
same  methodology  as  for  the  agomelatine-placebo  comparison,  in  order  to  demonstrate  assay 
sensitivity. 
The  main  analysis  compared  the  last  post-baseline  value  between  groups.  Student’s  t  test  (without 
adjustment) and a two-way analysis of covariance with adjustment on centre and baseline were used to 
compare agomelatine and placebo. Subgroup analyses were performed in all FAS subsets using the t-
test. Response to treatment (decrease in HAM-D total score of at least 50% according to baseline) and 
remission (HAM-D total score < 6) was compared between groups using a Chi-Square test. Time to 
first response to treatment and time to first remission were compared between groups by Kaplan-Meier 
method and log-rank test. 
The  response  was  also  studied  in  the  Sub-FAS  with HAM-D  >  25  at W0 and the  Sub-FAS  without 
benzodiazepines, remission in the Sub-FAS with HAM-D > 25 at W0 and time to first response in the 
Sub-FAS  without  benzodiazepines.  The  estimate  of  the  difference  agomelatine  versus  fluoxetine 
means was done using a 95% Confidence Interval (CI) for all HAM-D expressions except time to first 
response and time to first remission and for all secondary criteria. 
Page 25 of 66 
Secondary efficacy criteria, i.e. MADRS, HAM-A, CGI scale, LSEQ were compared between groups 
using a Student’s t test in the FAS. For the last 2 criteria, a Mann-Whitney test was performed as a 
robustness  analysis  in  the  FAS.  HAM-A  and  LSEQ  were  studied  also  in  the  Sub-FAS  without 
benzodiazepines. For each criterion, the agomelatine group and the fluoxetine group were compared to 
the placebo group with the same methodology. 
Long term (W0-W24 period) efficacy analyses 
In  the  Sub-FAS  of  responders  to  treatment  at  W6  who  entered  the  optional  extension  period,  
agomelatine  and  placebo  on  the  one  hand,  and  fluoxetine  and  placebo  on  the  other  hand,  were 
compared using t test on the last post-baseline value (HAM-D) and log-rank test for the time to first 
relapse (HAM-D total score returned to 16 or more or suicide or suicide attempt) and time to first loss 
of response. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Study CL3-022 
Figure 1: Disposition of patients in study CL3-022 
Approximately 85% completed six weeks of double-blind treatment in the agomelatine and fluoxetine 
groups compared with 73% in the placebo group where more patients withdraw due to lack of effect 
(Figure III-2). 
The overall morning and evening compliances were satisfactory (between 70% and 130%) in 91% of 
randomised patients during the W0-W6 period. There were no relevant between-group differences for 
treatment duration or compliance. 
Page 26 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study CL3-023 
Figure 2: participant flow from selection, through double-blind treatment period and to completion for 
Study CL3-023. 
84% percent of the patients completed six weeks of double-blind treatment with no major differences 
between the treatment groups with respect to amount, cause and timing of withdrawal (Figure III-3). 
As shown in the table above, more patients were withdrawn (due to lack of efficacy) in the placebo 
group than in the active treatment groups. In the paroxetine group more patients were withdrawn due 
to adverse events. 
Page 27 of 66 
 
 
 
Study CL3-024 
Figure 3: participant flow and the number of patients included in the different analysis sets for Study 
CL3-024. 
The completion rate was fairly high (85%). There were no major differences in withdrawals between 
the treatment groups with respect to amount and cause with the exception of more withdrawals due to 
non-medical reasons (mostly withdrawal of consent) in the agomelatine 25 mg group (Figure 3). The 
discontinuations tended to occur earlier in the agomelatine groups. 
Recruitment 
Patients were recruited during the period September 1999 to August 2001 for Study CL3-022, from 
December 1999 to September 2001 for Study CL3-023 and from June 2000 to May 2002 for Study 
CL3-024. 
Page 28 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the studies 
Studies CL3-022 and CL3-023  were multicentre, randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled study 
in three parallel groups, one assigned to agomelatine (25 mg/day), one to placebo and the third group 
to  a  positive  control  (fluoxetine  20  mg/day  or  paroxetine  20  mg/day  respectively)  to  ensure  assay 
sensitivity. Study CL3-022 was national (France), whereas Study CL3-023 was international. 
Study CL3-024 was a multicentre, multinational, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study 
in  4  parallel  groups  (agomelatine  25  mg  group,  agomelatine  50  mg  group,  placebo  group  and 
fluoxetine group used to assay the sensitivity of the study). 
Baseline data 
Study CL3-022: Of the 409 patients that were included in the FAS, 31% were male patients and 69% 
were  female  patients.  Their  age  ranged  from  19  to  60  years,  with  a  mean  age  of  42.5  years  old.  In 
general the groups were comparable at baseline, but the agomelatine patients were somewhat younger 
than the placebo and fluoxetine patients. There were also more single episode patients in this group. 
Study CL3-023: Of the 417 patients that were randomised, 25.4% were male patients and 74.6% were 
female  patients.  Their  age  ranged  from  18  to  60  years,  with  a  mean  age  of  40.9  years  old.  Overall 
baseline characteristics were similar in the three treatment groups. 
Study CL3-024: Of the 607 patients in the randomised set, 27.5% were male patients and 72.5% were 
female  patients.  Their  age  ranged  from  18  to  65  years,  with  a  mean  age  of  40.9  years  old.  Single 
episode MDD patients were 32.7% in the 25mg agomelatine group, 33.1% in the 50mg agomelatine 
group, 27.8% in the placebo group, and 29.1% in the fluoxetine group. MDD patients with recurrent 
episodes were 67.3% in the 25mg agomelatine group, 66.9% in the 50mg agomelatine group, 72.2% in 
the  placebo  group  and  70.9%  in  the  fluoxetine  group.  No  relevant  between-group  differences  were 
observed  for  the  main  demographic  data  and  baseline  characteristics.  All  the  patients  met  DSM-IV 
criteria  for  episodes  of  Major  Depressive  Disorder.  About  two  thirds  of  the  patients  (69.4%)  had 
recurrent episodes. 
Numbers analysed 
Study  CL3-022:  The  FAS  (W0-W6)  contained  a  total  of  419  subjects  including  129  patients  in  the 
agomelatine  group,  147  patients in  the  placebo  group  and  133  patients  in  the  fluoxetine  group. The 
observed  cases  W6  set  included  114  patients,  124  patients  and  122  patients  in  the  three  groups 
respectively. 
Study CL3-023: The randomised set contained a total of 417 subjects (142 in the agomelatine group, 
137  on  placebo and 138  on  paroxetine). The  sub-RS  in  the  double  blind extension period  contained 
289  subjects  (92  on  agomelatine,  92  on  placebo  and  105  on  paroxetine).  For  week  0-6  the  FAS 
contained 415 subjects (141 on agomelatine, 137 on placebo and 137 on paroxetine). 
Study  CL3-024:  of  the  607  patients that  were randomised,  599  were  included in  the  FAS  (W0-W6) 
(148 in the 25mg agomelatine group, 147 in the 50mg agomelatine group, 158 in the placebo group 
and 146 in the fluoxetine group). Fewer patients in the fluoxetine group were withdrawn due to lack of 
efficacy  than  in  the  other  groups.  In  the  W0  –  W6  period  withdrawals  due  to  adverse  events  were 
slightly more frequent in the fluoxetine group. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Study CL3-022: In the FAS, the mean last post-baseline value of the HAM-D total score over the W0-
W6  period  was  lower  in  the  agomelatine  group  than  in  the  placebo  group,  without  statistically 
significant  difference  (27.6±2.9  and  14.5±8.2  versus  28±3.6  and  15.9±  8.6  respectively).  Similar 
results  were  observed  at  W6  for  the  Observed  Cases  (12.8±6.8  versus  14.2±7.7).  There  was  no 
statistically  significant  difference  between  the  agomelatine  and  placebo  groups  in  the  percentage  of 
responders (defined as a patient having a decrease from baseline of at least 50% in the HAM-D total 
score)  to  treatment  (53%  in  the  agomelatine  group  and  47%  in  the  placebo  group)  and  in  the 
percentage of patients in remission. 
Page 29 of 66 
Assay sensitivity was demonstrated. In the FAS, the mean last post-baseline HAM-D total score was 
significantly lower (p = 0.008) in the fluoxetine group than in the placebo group. The mean difference 
was 2.59. 
Long term (W0-W24 period): In the Sub-FAS in the double-blind extension period, the mean last post-
baseline HAM-D total score was 10.0 in the agomelatine group, 10.7 in the placebo group and 8.4 in 
the  fluoxetine  group.  Among  the  responders  to  treatment  (according  to  the  HAM-D)  at  W6  who 
entered  the  optional  extension  period  (Sub-FAS  of  W6  responders  –  complementary  analyses),  the 
mean  last  post-baseline  HAM-D  total  score  was  lower  in  the  agomelatine  group  (7.4)  than  in  the 
placebo group (10.2), but not statistically significant. Among the patients with a HAM-D total score < 
16 in this Sub-FAS of W6 responders, 9 (14.3%) in the agomelatine group, 20 (33.3%) in the placebo 
group and 13 (17.8%) in the fluoxetine group relapsed over the W6-W24 period. The survival curve 
analysis  of  the  time  to  relapse  showed  a  statistically  significant  difference  in  favour  of  agomelatine 
(15.8%, log rank test p = 0.017) and fluoxetine (19.9%, log rank test p = 0.045) compared to placebo 
(35.0%). 
Study CL3-023: In the FAS, the mean last post-baseline HAM-D total score was slightly lower in the 
agomelatine  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  (13.0±8.0  versus  13.8±8.0)  without  statistically 
significant  difference  with  or  without  adjustment  for  centre  and  baseline.  Similar  results  were 
observed in the PPS and for the response to treatment, remission, and the time to first response and to 
first remission. 
Assay-sensitivity:  In  the  FAS,  the  mean  last  post-baseline  HAM-D  total  score  was  lower  in  the 
paroxetine group than in the placebo group (12.2±8.1 versus 13.8±8.0) without statistically significant 
difference  with  or  without  adjustment  for  centre  and  baseline.  Similar  results  were  observed  in  the 
PPS. 
Long term efficacy: In the Sub-FAS in double-blind extension period, results on the primary criterion 
(HAM-D) and on CGI were similar to those observed in the FAS (i.e. no relevant differences between 
the treatment groups).  In the Sub-FAS of W6 responders, neither statistically significant nor clinically 
relevant  difference  were  observed  in  the  incidences  over  time  of  the  first  relapse  and  first  loss  of 
response  when  comparing  agomelatine  group  or  paroxetine  group  with  the  placebo  group 
(complementary analyses). 
Study CL3-024: In the FAS, the estimated difference of the last post-baseline HAM-D total score over 
the W0-W6 period between the agomelatine 25 mg group and the placebo group was not statistically 
significantly different (12.0±8.2 versus 13.4±8.4). The estimated difference was 1.31 (p=0.29). 
Assay sensitivity: The estimated difference of the last post-baseline HAM-D total score over the W0-
W6  period  between  the  fluoxetine  and  placebo  groups  was  0.53  in  favour  of  fluoxetine  but  did  not 
reach statistical significance (p=0.54). 
No statistically significant differences between the agomelatine 50 mg and placebo were observed for 
the last post-baseline HAM-D total score over the W0-W6 period. 
Long-term efficacy analyses over the W6-W24 period: Among patients of the Sub-FAS in the double-
blind extension period responders to treatment at W6 (decrease from baseline in HAM-D total score 
>50%) no statistically significant differences were observed between both agomelatine or fluoxetine 
groups and the placebo group for the time to first loss of response. The unusually low relapse rate in 
the placebo group made it difficult to conclude about the maintenance of efficacy in active treatment 
groups. 
Studies CL3-021 and CL3-041 (Relapse prevention Studies) 
Methods 
Study Participants 
Both studies 021 and 041 were multi-centre studies. 
In Study CL3-021, 92 centres included patients: France (61 centres, 332 included patients), Spain (22 
centres, 186 included patients) and Germany (9 centres, 33 included patients). Patients had to fulfil the 
Page 30 of 66 
DSM-IV  criteria  for  recurrent  MDD,  otherwise  the  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  were  similar  to 
those in the short-term studies. 
In Study CL3-041, 56 centres included at least one patient: Australia (7 centres, 39 included patients), 
Finland (11 centres, 174 included patients), France (20 centres, 125 included patients), South Africa (6 
centres, 75 included patients) and United Kingdom (12 centres, 79 included patients). Patients had to 
fulfil the DSM-IV-TR criteria for recurrent MDD, have a HAM-D total score of at least 22 with the 
sum of items 1+2+5+6+7+8+10+13 constituting at least 55% of the total score, a CGI-S score of at 
least  4,  and  a  Hospital  Anxiety  Depression-Depression  sub-score  of  at  at  least  11.  Otherwise  the 
inclusion and exclusion criteria were similar to those in the short-term studies. 
Treatments 
Study  CL3-021:  The  study  used  one  active  treatment  -  agomelatine  at  25  mg  -  and  a  placebo, 
administered once daily in the evening, as tablets of identical appearance. The dosage schedule was as 
follows: agomelatine 25 mg, during the open period (W0-W8); either agomelatine 25 mg or placebo, 
during the mandatory double-blind period (W8-W34); either agomelatine 25 mg or placebo, during the 
optional  double-blind  extension  period  (the  same  treatment  as  during  the  mandatory  double-blind 
period). 
No  treatment  was  prescribed  during  the  follow-up  period,  and  no  dose  adjustments  were  allowed 
during the study. As far as possible, anxiolytic or hypnotic treatment was not to be taken during the 
study;  however,  as  anxiolytic  treatment  a  maximum  dose  equivalent  to  20  mg  of  diazepam  was 
allowed.  If,  following  the  W4  visit,  a  concomitant  treatment  by  benzodiazepine  was  inferior,  or 
equivalent, to 10 mg of diazepam, then it was authorised beyond W8. 
Study CL3-041: All patients were treated with agomelatine (administered in the evening) during the 
open  treatment  period.  From  inclusion  (W0)  to  W2,  all  patients  received  a  dose  of  25  mg  of 
agomelatine daily + 1 placebo tablet. At W2, the 25 mg dose of agomelatine was either maintained or 
increased  to  50  mg  daily,  depending  on  the  clinical  improvement  of  the  patient,  under  double-blind 
conditions. This treatment was maintained until W8 /W10. 
Patients fulfilling the randomisation criteria at W8 or W10 entered the double-blind treatment period. 
Patients randomised in the agomelatine group continued on the same dose as that taken from W2 to 
W8/W10.  Patients  entering  the  optional  double-blind  treatment  period  (BW24-BW44)  continued  on 
the same treatment. During the follow-up period patients did not receive any study treatment. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  study  CL3-021  was  to  assess  that  agomelatine  prevents  the  occurrence  of 
depressive  relapse  compared  to  placebo  in  out-patients  and  hospitalised  patients  suffering  from 
recurrent MDD during a mandatory double-blind period (W8 to W34). The secondary objective was to 
provide additional safety data on long term use of agomelatine (W8 to W52). 
The primary objective of study CL3-041 was to assess the efficacy of agomelatine (25 mg / 50 mg) in 
the prevention of depressive relapse in ambulatory patients suffering from recurrent MDD, during 24 
weeks of treatment after an initial response to agomelatine (25 mg or 50 mg). The secondary objective 
was to provide additional safety data on long-term use of agomelatine. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Study CL3-021: The primary efficacy criterion was the HAM-D total score, mainly expressed as time 
to  relapse.  The  time  to  relapse  was  defined  as  the  time  in  days  from  the  date  of  first  intake  of  the 
randomised treatment to the date of the first event (or date of censoring), where relapse was defined as 
a total score ≥ 16 on HAM-D or suicide or attempted suicide. 
The secondary analytical approaches were: 
-  Time to first loss of remission (days): 
o  Loss of remission was defined as a HAM-D total score ≥ 7 
o  The censoring was defined as the time of the measurement of the last HAM-D total 
score available on the analysed period 
Page 31 of 66 
-  Last post-W8 value 
-  Response to treatment, taking into account last post-W8 value, response being defined as 
follows: 
100 x  HAM-DW0 – HAM-D (post W8) = % Response 
                       HAM-DW0 
The response was considered as positive, if % Response ≥ 50.0%. 
Secondary efficacy criteria: 
-  Severity of illness score, Global improvement score and Efficacy index issued from CGI scale 
-  Getting  off  to  sleep  score,  Quality  of  sleep  score,  Sleep  awakening  score  and  Integrity  of 
behaviour score issued from LSEQ 
These criteria were expressed as last post-W8 value. 
Study  CL3-041:  The  primary  efficacy  criterion  was  the  relapse  which  corresponds  to  the  re-
appearance of the index episode that occurs within 6 months after either a response, or a remission of 
the previous episode. Relapse was defined as one of the following: HAM-D 17-item total score ≥ 16, 
withdrawal for lack of efficacy, suicide, or suicide attempt. 
The main analytical approach was the time to relapse during the double-blind treatment period defined 
as  the  time  between  the  date  of  the  first  randomised  treatment  administration  and  the  date  of  the 
relapse (or date of censoring). 
A global assessment of the patient's general condition was determined by the item 2 of Clinical Global 
Impression scale (CGI) as a secondary endpoint.  
Sample size 
Sample size was estimated in relationship with the time until relapse, in order to have a statistically 
significant difference between placebo and agomelatine, using a two-sided log-rank test at 5% type I 
error. For 90% power, 71 events and so 158 patients per group were proven to be necessary in order to 
show a difference between placebo and agomelatine survival distributions, according to the respective 
appearance rate of 30% and 15%, 6 months after randomisation (Geddes, 2003). 
In  order  to  obtain  316-320  randomised  patients in  the  double-blind  period,  and  assuming  that  about 
35% of included patients were expected to withdraw from the study before W8/W10, the number of 
patients included was therefore fixed at 500. 
Randomisation 
Study  CL3-021:  Treatments  (agomelatine,  placebo)  were  allocated  by  balanced  randomisation, 
without  stratification  at  W8.  The treatments  were allocated  to  patients  according  to  a  randomisation 
list. The randomisation was done using permutation blocks of fixed size (block size = 4). Each centre 
was given entire permutation blocks (implicit stratification factor). In each centre, the treatments were 
assigned  to  patients  according  to  the  chronological  order  of  inclusion  in  the  double-blind  treatment 
period. 
Study CL3-041: Allocation and randomisation of treatments was managed by an International Voice 
Response System (IVRS), according to specifications established before the beginning of the study. At 
W2, the 25 mg dose of agomelatine was either maintained or increased to 50 mg daily under double-
blind conditions in the open period. For patients fulfilling the randomisation criteria at W8 or W10, 
agomelatine  or  placebo  treatment  was  allocated  to  the  patient  by  a  balanced  (non-adaptive) 
randomisation with stratification on the centre and on the randomisation visit (W8 or W10) in double-
blind randomised treatment period. If the patient entered the optional double-blind treatment period, 
the same therapeutic number was conserved in the optional double-blind treatment period. 
Page 32 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
Blinding (masking) 
Study CL3-021: Tablets of agomelatine and placebo were of identical appearance and taste and were 
packaged  in  identical  blister  packs  of  18  tablets  with  identical  labelling.  Investigators  (and/or 
pharmacists) were provided with sealed envelopes containing identity of the treatment administered to 
each patient. These envelopes were to be returned to the sponsor at the end of the study. The blind for 
any  study  patient  could  be  broken  by  the  investigator  or  an  authorised  person  if  it  was  absolutely 
necessary i.e., in case of life threatening emergencies, for which the treatment received by the patient 
could  have  an  influence  on  the  emergency  therapy.  If  the  blind  was  broken,  the  investigator  was  to 
complete, date and sign a form stating the number of the involved persons and reasons for breaking the 
blind. 
Study CL3-041: Dosage schedule, study treatment appearance and organoleptic features (taste) were 
the same from inclusion to the end of the treatment period. Tablets were packaged in identical blisters 
of 12 tablets with identical labelling. The criteria for adjusting the dose, and whether or not the dose 
was  adjusted  at  W2,  were  not  disclosed  to  the  investigator  or  to  the  patient,  in  order  to  eliminate 
subjective effects on the evolution of the patient's condition. The dose adjustment at W2 was centrally 
performed using an IVRS procedure. Therapeutic units were centrally and blindly allocated to patients 
at  inclusion  (W0),  at  W2,  and  at  randomisation  (W8/W10  =  BW0)  using  an  IVRS  procedure.  The 
decoding system used was a centralised decoding by IVRS. The code for any patient could be broken 
by  the  investigator  or  an  authorised  person  if  it  was  absolutely  necessary  to  ascertain  the  type  of 
treatment given. 
Statistical methods 
Study CL3-021 
Main  analysis:  Incidence  of  relapses  over  time  was  estimated  by  the  Kaplan-Meier  method.  The 
difference between agomelatine and placebo on the time to relapse was tested using a (non-stratified) 
Log-rank test (non-parametric procedure). 
Supportive analyses: A Cox model associated with the Likelihood ratio test was performed involving 
only treatment effect, in order to compare groups and estimate the relative risk of agomelatine versus 
placebo  and  its  95%  confidence  interval  on  the  time  to  relapse.  An  adjusted  Cox  model  associated 
with the Likelihood ratio test was performed, which included the treatment effect and four covariates, 
in order to compare groups and estimate the relative risk of agomelatine versus placebo and its 95% 
confidence interval on the time to relapse. The following covariates were taken into account: Age (< 
50  years  and  ≥  50  years),  Number  of  major  depressive  episodes  (≤  3  and  >  3),  Current  major 
depressive episode duration (≤ 2 months and > 2 months) and HAM-D total score at W8 (< 7 and ≥ 7). 
- Analyses defined above were also carried out on PPS over the W8-W34 period. 
As secondary analyses, same strategy was carried out on FAS post-W10 and PPS post-W10 during the 
period W10-W34. 
To  study  maintenance  of  efficacy  on  the  long-term,  the  same  analyses  were  performed  on  the  FAS 
over the period W8-W52. 
Secondary analytical approaches of primary criterion: 
- 
Incidence of loss of remission over time was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. 
-  The  difference  between  agomelatine  and  placebo  was  studied  on  the  time  to  first  loss  of 
remission  using  a  (non-stratified)  Log-rank  test  (non-parametric  procedure)  on the  Sub-FAS 
with W8 HAM-D total score < 7 over W8-W34 and W8-W52.  
-  Moreover,  a  Cox  model  associated  with  the  Likelihood  ratio  test  was  performed  involving 
only  the  treatment  effect,  in  order  to  compare  groups  and  estimate  the  relative  risk  of 
agomelatine versus placebo and its 95% confidence interval over W8-W34 and W8-W52. 
-  The difference between agomelatine and placebo was studied for the last post-W8 value using 
a 95% confidence interval on the FAS and PPS over W8-W34.  
-  The difference between agomelatine and placebo was studied for response to treatment taking 
into account the last post-W8 value using a 95% confidence interval on the FAS and PPS over 
W8-W34. 
Page 33 of 66 
 
Study CL3-041 
Primary criterion 
•  Main analysis: 
The incidence  of relapse  over  BW0-BW24  was  compared  between  agomelatine  and  placebo  groups 
using  a  log-rank  test  stratified  for  centre  type  (centres  managed  by  psychiatrists  or  by  GPs)  and 
randomisation visit (W8 or W10) in the FAS. 
In order to estimate the hazard ratio of relapse on agomelatine as compared to placebo, a Cox model 
associated with the likelihood ratio test was performed in the FAS, with adjustment for centre type and 
randomisation visit. 
In addition, descriptive statistics by treatment group were provided. 
•  Sensitivity analyses: 
The  hazard ratio of  relapse  on  agomelatine  as  compared  to  placebo  was also  estimated  using  a  Cox 
model  with  adjustment  for  HAM-D  17-item  total  score  at  inclusion  in  addition  to  centre  type  and 
randomisation  visit.  Furthermore,  a  non-stratified  log-rank  test  and  an  unadjusted  Cox  model  were 
carried out. 
•  Secondary analyses: 
The  same  analysis  strategy  was  applied  to  the  two  subsets  of  clinical  interest  of  the  FAS,  with 
obviously no stratification on the centre type in the Sub-FAS Psychiatrists. 
Page 34 of 66 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
Figure 4: Disposition of patients included and randomised in Study CL3-021. 
Page 35 of 66 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Disposition of patients included and randomised in Study CL3-041. 
As regards to the agomelatine dose, 109 patients of the 471 continuing at W2 (23.1%) had a dose increase to 50 
mg. Among them, 60 were randomised (23 to agomelatine and 37 to placebo). 
Recruitment 
For  study  CL3-041  the  first  patient  was  enrolled  on  03  February  2005;  study  completion  was  07 
February 2007. 
For study CL3-021 the first patient was enrolled on 30 September 1999; study completion was 26 June 
2002. 
Conduct of the studies 
For study CL3-021 the original protocol was dated 1st July 1999; there were six amendments, two of 
them mentioned below: 
-  Amendment  No.1,  dated  5  October  1999,  concerned,  among  other  things,  ongoing  criteria  for  the 
mandatory  double-blind  period:  a  concomitant  treatment  by  benzodiazepine  was  permitted  only  in 
patients  who  were  already  taken  a  benzodiazepine  for  at  least  1  month  before  inclusion  at  a  stable 
dosage (at a dose equivalent of < 10 mg of diazepam at W4). 
Amendment  No.  3,  dated  14  June  2000,  concerned  selection  criteria:  hospitalised  patients  could  be 
selected. 
Page 36 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For study CL3-041 the original protocol was dated 12th October 2004; there were 3 amendments.  
Amendment No. 1, dated 17 March 2005, added Servier Research and Development Limited as local 
sponsor for UK. 
Amendment  No.  2,  dated  5  April  2005,  added  a  new  country,  Australia,  to  make  the  recruitment 
easier. 
Amendment No. 3, dated 30 December 2005, added a HAD sub-score of depression of at least 11 to 
selection  criteria  in  order  to  characterise  the  depression  as  regards  patients'  point  of  view.  This 
amendment was applied in all centres for patients further selected. 
Baseline data 
Study  CL3-021:  Of  the  367  patients  included  in  the  randomised  set,  22.1%  were  male  patients  and 
77.9% were female patients. Their age ranges from 19 to 67 years, with a mean age of 45.7 years old. 
Study  CL3-041:  Of  the  339  patients  included  in  the  randomised  set,  25.7%  were  male  patients  and 
74.3% were female patients. Their age ranges from 19 to 65 years, with a mean age of 43.3 years old. 
Numbers analysed 
For  study  CL3-021  most  analysis  sets  were  defined  before  study  unblinding.  The  Randomised  Set 
comprised a total of 367 patients; 187 in the agomelatine group and 180 in the placebo group. The Full 
Analysis Set (FAS) consisted of 364 patients (99.2% of the Randomised Set). In all, 3 patients of the 
Randomised  Set  were  excluded  from  the  FAS  due  to  a  HAM-D  total  score  >  10  at  W8:  2  in  the 
agomelatine group and 1 in the placebo group. 
FAS post-W10, defined as all patients of the FAS having at least one HAM-D evaluation on the [W10-
W34]  period.  This  was  to  distinguish  relapse  from  rebound  and  withdrawal  phenomena  after  W8, 
when some patients experienced a change of treatment. 
In addition, subsets of the FAS were defined: 
Sub-FAS with HAM-D total score ≤ 6 at W8, defined as all patients of the FAS with a HAM-D total 
score ≤ 6 at W8. A total of 182 patients (49.5% of the RS) were considered as being in remission. 
Sub-FAS in extension period, defined as all patients of the FAS having decided to continue in the 
optional double-blind placebo-controlled extension period (W34-W52). 
Sub-FAS not in extension period, defined as the complementary set of the Sub-FAS in extension 
period. 
In study CL3-041 the Randomised Set comprised a total of 339 patients; 165 in the agomelatine group 
and  174  in  the  placebo  group.  The  Full  Analysis  Set  (FAS)  included  the  same  patients  as  the 
Randomised Set and thus consisted of 339 patients. 
Two subsets of the FAS were defined: 
-  The  Sub-FAS  psychiatrists,  defined  as  patients  of  the  FAS  followed  by  a  psychiatrist, 
consisted of 227 patients (67.0% of the FAS) 
-  The  Sub-FAS  with  W0  HAM-D  total  score  ≥  25,  defined  as  all  patients  of  the  FAS  with 
HAM-D 17-item total score at inclusion ≥ 25, consisted of 270 patients (79.6% of the FAS).  
Outcomes and estimation 
For study CL3-021: 
The primary criterion was HAM-D total score. The main analytical approach was time to relapse after 
W8.  The  time  to  relapse  was  defined  as  the  time  interval  in  days  between  the  first  randomised 
treatment administration and relapse.  
In the FAS, the incidence of patients with relapse was 25.9% (48/185) in the agomelatine group versus 
23.5% (42/179) in the placebo group over W8-W34. 
In a post-hoc analysis, in the group of more severe patients (with HAM-D > 25 and CGI-S ≥ 5 at W0), 
agomelatine reduced the percentage of relapse (21.3%) compared to placebo (31.3%) over W8-W34. 
Page 37 of 66 
 
 
This difference became statistically significant (HR= 0.57, p = 0.046) over the period W8-W52. In the 
population of more severe patients who were in remission at W8, the RR value of 3.020 corresponds 
to a reduction of about 67% in the relative risk of relapse in the agomelatine group versus the placebo 
group.  Statistically  significant  differences  were  also  observed  over  the  period  W10-W34  in  the 
subgroup of severe patients in the Sub-FAS post-W10 HAM-D > 25 and CGI-S ≥ 5 at W0, and Sub-
FAS post-W10 HAM-D > 25 and CGI-S ≥ 5 at W0 who were in remission at W8. 
Figure 6 : Time to relapse in the FAS over the period W8-W34 in CL3-021 
Figure 7 : Time to relapse in the sub-FAS with HAM-D greater than 25 and CGI-S greater than 
or equal to 5 at W0 over the period W8-W34 in CL3-021 
Page 38 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary analytical approach 
During the open agomelatine treatment period W0-W8, the mean HAM-D total score in the FAS was 
reduced  from  26.1  ±  2.8  (range  21-37;  n=364)  to  6.1  ±  2.7  (range  0-10;  n=364)  at  W8.  After 
randomisation, the HAM-D total scores in the two groups were similar throughout, and no statistically 
significant  difference  between  agomelatine  and  placebo  was  observed.  At  W34  both  groups  had  a 
mean score of 6.3, and the last observation in the agomelatine group was 9.3 versus 9.6 in the placebo 
group. 
Secondary efficacy criteria: 
CGI scores: The severity of illness score, which had shown improvement during the open period of 
the study, was maintained during the randomised period. The severity of illness score increased from 
1.8 ± 0.8 at W8 to 2.3 ± 1.5 at the last post-W8 visit in the agomelatine group. The same result was 
obtained in the placebo group. The global improvement score which had shown lowered (improved) 
scores at the end of the open period of the study (from 3.0 ± 1.0 at baseline to 2.2 ± 1.4) increased, in 
both  groups,  over  the  randomised  period.  In  the  FAS,  the  mean  score  in  the  agomelatine  group 
increased  from  2.8  ±  1.5  at  W10  to  3.5  ±  1.9  at  the  last  visit.  Similar  results  were  observed  in  the 
placebo  group.  The  efficacy  index  score  showed  slight  fluctuations  in  both  groups  during  the 
randomised  period,  but  overall  little  change.  LSEQ scores:  LSEQ  scores improved  during  the  open 
period,  but  these  improvements  were  gradually  reduced  during  the  randomised  period,  in  both 
treatment  groups.  Although  the  between-group  differences  were  not  significant  at  the  last  post-W8 
value  over W8-W34  period,  the  four  mean  scores in  the  agomelatine  group  were lower,  which  may 
indicate  a  persistent  positive  effect  on  sleep  in  this  group.  Similar  results  were  observed  over  the 
period W8-W52. 
For study CL3-041 
The primary efficacy criterion was the relapse. The time to relapse during the double-blind treatment 
period was the main analytical approach. It was defined as the time interval in days between the date 
of the first administration of randomised study treatment and the date of relapse (or date of censoring). 
Number of patients with a depressive relapse during the 24-week double-blind period, incidence over 
time, and risk of relapse in the FAS and Sub-FAS are presented in Table 5. 
Table 5: Number of patients with a depressive relapse during the 24-week double-blind period, 
incidence over time, and risk of relapse in the FAS and Sub-FAS 
Page 39 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FAS 
Total events* 
Main analysis 
Incidence after 175 days 
Stratified log-rank test(a) 
Adjusted Cox-model(a) 
Sub-FAS psychiatrists 
Total events* 
Incidence after 175 days 
Stratified log-rank test(b) 
Adjusted Cox-model(a) 
N (%) 
E (SE)1 
p value 
E (SE)2 
95% CI3 
N (%) 
E (SE)1 
p value 
E (SE)2 
95% CI3 
Agomelatine 
N=165 
34 (20.6%) 
21.7% (3.3%) 
N = 110 
22 (20.0%) 
21.3% (4.0%) 
Placebo 
N=174 
72 (41.4%) 
46.6% (5.0%) 
N = 117 
56 (47.9%) 
56.1% (6.9%) 
0.0001 
0.458 (0.095) 
[0.305 ; 0.690] 
< 0.0001 
0.376 (0.095) 
[0.230 ; 0.617] 
N = 128 
N = 142 
Sub-FAS with W0 HAM-
D total score ≥ 25 
Total events* 
Incidence after 175 days 
Stratified log-rank test(b) 
Adjusted Cox-model(a) 
28 (21.9%) 
22.7% (3.8%) 
N (%) 
E (SE)1 
p value 
E (SE)2 
95% CI3 
*: Total number of patients having a relapse during the double-blind period. 
1: Estimate (Standard Error) of the percentage of patients with a relapse after 175 days of treatment (Kaplan-
Meier’s method) 
2: Estimate (Standard Error) of the adjusted Hazard Ratio of relapse between treatment groups: agomelatine 
versus placebo 
3: 95% confidence interval of the estimate 
(a): Stratified or adjusted for centre type (psychiatrists or GP), and randomisation visit (W8 or W10). 
(b): Stratified or adjusted for randomisation visit (W8 or W10) 
0.0001 
0.432 (0.098) 
[0.277 ; 0.673] 
64 (45.1%) 
50.4% (5.3%) 
Figure 8:Time to relapse over the double-blind period in the FAS (Kaplan-Meier estimation) in 
CL3-041 
Secondary efficacy criteria 
HAM-D total score 
In the Open Set, the mean HAM-D total score progressively decreased during the open period, from 
W0 (27.0 ± 2.7) up to last post-baseline assessment (9.9 ± 7.3). At the same time, the percentage of 
responders (defined as patients with a decrease from baseline of at least 50%) progressively increased 
from 10.4% at W2 to 78.6% at the last assessment. 
Page 40 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the double-blind period, in the FAS, the therapeutic benefit, acquired during the open period 
was maintained in the agomelatine group (mean change in HAM-D total score of 1.4 ± 6.9 between 
BW0  and  the  last  post-randomisation  assessment).  In  the  placebo  group,  the  mean  score  increased 
(mean change of 4.7 ± 8.4). Similar results were observed in both FAS subsets. 
CGI 
In  the  Open  Set,  the  mean  severity  of  illness  score  (4.9  ±  0.7  at  W0),  and  the  mean  global 
improvement score (3.0 ± 0.8 at W2) decreased up to the last post-baseline assessment during the open 
period  (2.4  ±  1.3,  and  1.8  ±  1.1,  respectively).  At  the  same  time,  the  percentage  of  responders 
according to the global improvement score (score of 1 or 2) increased from 25.7% at W2 up to 80.3% 
at the last assessment. 
During the double-blind period, in the FAS, both mean scores were smaller in the agomelatine group 
than in the placebo group at the last post-randomisation assessment (2.1 ± 1.2 for severity, and 3.8 ± 
1.6 for global improvement according to randomisation in the agomelatine group versus 2.6 ± 1.5, and 
4.4  ±  1.7,  respectively  for  the  placebo  group).  In  the  agomelatine  group,  the  therapeutic  benefit, 
acquired during the open period was maintained during the double-blind period as regards the severity 
of illness whereas severity of illness worsened in the placebo group. Similar results were observed in 
both FAS subsets. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
In  a  meta  analysis  including  six  of  the  pivotal  studies  (i.e.  all  the  placebo-controlled  short-term 
studies) whether positive (CL2-014, CL3-042, CL3-043) or not (CL3-022, CL3-023, CL3-024), with 
1210 patients receiving agomelatine 25 and 50 mg but also sub-therapeutic doses, 1 and 5 mg, and 805 
patients  receiving  placebo,  an  overall  treatment  effect  of  about  1.5  on  the  HAM-D  in  favour  of 
agomelatine  over  placebo  was  observed.  Using  a  model  with  study  included  as  a  fixed  effect,  the 
estimated  difference  was  1.51  with  a  95%  confidence  interval  of  [0.80,  2.22].  When  the  study  was 
modelled as a random effect, the estimated difference was 1.55 [0.61, 2.48]. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Study CL3-026: efficacy in elderly patients with Major Depression 
Efficacy and safety in elderly patients with Major Depressive Disorder was studied in Study CL3-026, 
comparing  agomelatine  (25  mg)  given  orally  once  a  day  for  6  weeks  to  placebo.  This  was  a 
randomised double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study with a 18-week extension period. 
218 male or female out- or in-patients, aged ≥60 years, suffering from a single or recurrent episode of 
major  depressive  disorder  according  to  DSM-IV  criteria,  with  a  MADRS  score  of  at  least  24,  were 
included in this study. The duration of the current episode was to be ≤ 6 months. 109 patients were 
randomised to agomelatine 25 mg, 109 patients to placebo. 
The age distribution of the participants for the agomelatine group in the study was the following: 60- 
65 years: 46 (42.2%) patients, 65-75 years: 51 (46.8%) patients and ≥ 75 years: 12 (11%) patients. In 
the  placebo  group  the  distribution  was:  60-65  years:  36  (33%)  patients,  65-75  years:  59  (54.1%) 
patients and ≥ 75 years: 14 (12.8%) patients. 
The primary objective was to assess the efficacy of agomelatine 25 mg compared to placebo, using the 
Montgomery  and  Åsberg  Depression  Rating  Scale  (MADRS),  after  a  6-week  treatment  in  elderly 
patients suffering from Major Depressive Disorder. 
Short  term  efficacy  (W0-W6):  In  the  FAS  no  statistically  significant  between-group  difference  was 
observed in MADRS total score at the last post-baseline evaluation. The estimated difference was 0.19 
(p=0.89). Similar results were obtained with adjustment for demographic variables, in the SUB-FAS 
without benzodiazepines, and in the PPS including completers only. 
The  percentage  of  patients  responding  to  treatment  according  to  the  MADRS  was  46%  in  the 
agomelatine group and 52% in the placebo group (p=0.41). 
In an unplanned subgroup analysis of patients with more severe depression at baseline, agomelatine 
was found to be more effective than placebo. The estimated difference in the subgroup with MADRS 
≥ 30 and CGI-S > 5 was 5.58 (p=0.018) (see Table below). 
Page 41 of 66 
 
 
Table 6: Difference in MADRS score at the end of short-term treatment between agomelatine 25 mg and 
placebo in the overall population and subgroups of more severely depressed patients in study CL3-026 
(FAS-Last assessment) 
Population 
Overall (primary analysis) 
MADRS<30 
MADRS<30 and CGI-S>5 
N 
212 
102 
86 
Difference 
0.19 
3.97 
5.58 
P-value 
0.894 
0.066 
0.018 
In a pooled analysis of the positive short-term studies (CL2-014, CL3-042 and CL3-043 : only studies 
allowing patients over 60 years of age to be included) a more pronounced effect was observed in 
patents between 60 and 66 years of age (Table 7). 
Table 7: Difference in HAM-D score between agomelatine and placebo in subgroups based on age in the 
positive short-term studies (FAS-Last assessment) 
Age 
60-66 years 
<60 years 
N 
53 
668 
Difference 
4.50 
2.73 
P-value 
0.033 
<0.001 
Long  term  efficacy  (W0-W24  period):  In  the  SUB-FAS  in  double-blind  extension  period,  the  mean 
MADRS total score decreased between baseline and W24 visit. Regarding the last post-baseline value 
over the (W0-W24) period, the mean MADRS total score was 10.6 in the agomelatine group and 9.6 
in the placebo group. 
The  percentage  of  responders  according  to  MADRS  increased  over  the  (W0-W24)  period  to  reach 
70% in the agomelatine group versus 78% in the placebo group at last post-baseline evaluation. The 
percentage  of  remitters  at  last  post-baseline  evaluation  was  65%  versus  72%,  respectively.  No 
difference  was  observed  between  the  two  groups  in  the  percentage  of  responders  at  the  last  post-
baseline evaluation during the W0-W24 period in the sub-group of responders at W6 (83% and 87% in 
the agomelatine and placebo groups, respectively). 
The mean severity of illness score and global improvement score of the CGI scale decreased over the 
(W0-W24)  period  in  both  groups.  The  mean  efficacy  index  increased  at  each  visit  in  both  groups 
without between-group difference. 
Overall, no statistically significant difference between placebo and agomelatine 25 mg was observed. 
The  estimated  difference  on  the  MADRS  between  agomelatine  and  placebo  was  0.19,  which  was 
considered  to  be  negligible.  Still,  the  applicant  argued  that  in  subgroup  analyses  of  more  severely 
depressed  patients  a  positive  effect  was  observed.  However,  with  the  almost  total  lack  of  treatment 
difference  in  the  overall  population  in  the  elderly  study,  the  validity  of  positive  results  in  the 
subgroups with more severely depressed patients was questioned. The more pronounced effect seen in 
patients  aged  60-66  years  in  the  non-elderly  studies  could  not  be  indisputably  extrapolated  to  older 
patients.  The  lack  of  convincing  data  on  efficacy  in  elderly  was  considered  and  raised  as  a  major 
objection during the procedure. In response, the applicant proposed to conduct a post-marketing study 
of  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  agomelatine  in  patients  older  than  65  years  with  a  special  focus  on 
patients aged 75 years and above. The applicant provided an early draft synopsis and recruitment plan 
for this study which was considered acceptable. 
•  Supportive studies 
The  following  were  presented  as  supportive  studies:  Study  CL3-025,  on  the  efficacy  and  safety  of 
agomelatine 50 mg in depressed patients who failed to respond to agomelatine 25 mg after 4 weeks; 
Study  CL3-036,  to  assess sexual  function  after  3  months  of  treatment  with  agomelatine (50mg/day) 
versus venlafaxine (150mg/day); a randomised double-blind study comparing agomelatine 25-50mg to 
venlafaxine 75-150 mg (Study CL3-035); Study CL3-030, aimed to assess the safety of agomelatine 
25 mg after an abrupt discontinuation after 12 weeks. Study CL3-035 is presented below. 
Study  CL3-035:  Effects  on  sleep  The  agomelatine  impact  on  sleep  in  depressed  patients  was  the 
primary objective in one venlafaxine-controlled study (CL3-035) and a secondary objective in some of 
Page 42 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
the placebo controlled studies. Study CL3-035 was a randomised, double-blind study with a short-term 
phase and an extension phase in which agomelatine 25-50  mg was compared to venlafaxine 75-150 
mg. A modest effect in favour of agomelatine was demonstrated, primarily on the LSEQ Getting off to 
sleep sub-score (5 mm versus venlafaxine on a 100 mm VAS).  
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  main  dose  finding  study,  CL2-014,  compared  the  efficacy  of  1,  5  and  25  mg  agomelatine  vs. 
placebo with paroxetine 20 mg as an active control to ensure the assay sensitivity. Agomelatine 25 mg 
and  paroxetine  20  mg  were  statistically  significantly  superior  to  placebo  with  absolute  difference in 
HAM-D  17  items  (Hamilton  Depression  Rating  Scale)  score  of  2.57  and  2.25,  respectively,  in  the 
FAS.  Agomelatine  1  mg  showed  a  non  significant,  absolute  effect  of  2.17  compared  to  placebo, 
whereas  agomelatine  5  mg  consistently  performed  worse  than  the  two  other  groups  (the  advantage 
over  placebo  was  only  0.64).  The  statistically  significant  advantage  of  agomelatine  25  mg  was  not 
reproduced when comparing completers only, which made the results from the FAS less convincing. 
The lack of efficacy in the agomelatine group also made the dose-response relationship questionable. 
Studies CL2-007 and CL2-014 did not provide clear-cut dose responses and the drug showed highly 
variable PK implying that exposures vary a lot from patient to patient. Later efficacy studies compared 
agomelatine 25 mg and 50 mg without clearly showing better efficacy of the higher dose, e.g. in one 
study  (CL3-024)  25  and  50  mg  were  compared  to  placebo  but  both  doses  as  well  as  the  active 
comparator fluoxetine failed to show a positive effect versus placebo. 
During the procedure the applicant was requested to commit to perform a proper dose-finding study. 
However the applicant claimed to have shown sufficient efficacy for the two chosen doses of 25 mg 
and 50 mg per day and no new data were submitted. Agomelatine had an intrinsic unpredictable and 
highly variable pharmacokinetic profile. Given that the dose-response relation remained unclear, the 
applicant  committed  to  perform  a  post  approval  study  of  the  dose-response  relationship  of 
agomelatine,  including  also  a  randomised  dose  adjustment  in  non-responders  to  25  mg  agomelatine 
after 2 weeks. 
In the overall clinical program it was difficult to distinguish a greater efficacy with the dose of 50 mg 
in comparison to 25 mg, although a fraction of the patients seemed to improve from this dose increase. 
In  most  of  the  studies  showing  an  effect,  (short-term  studies  CL3-042  and  CL3-043  and  long-term 
studies CL3-041, and CL3-035 extension), the 25 mg starting dose was increased to 50 mg after two 
weeks  in  case  of insufficient response. Thus the  recommended  dosage  proposed  in  the  SPC  “25  mg 
QD  with  a  dose  increase  to  50  mg  if  there  is  no  improvement  of  symptoms  after  two  weeks  of 
treatment” seemed reasonable. However, in study CL3-025 where patients with insufficient response 
to 25 mg at week 4 were randomised between 25 and 50 mg, no benefit of a dose increase could be 
demonstrated, and the applicant was later requested to justify the recommended posology. In response, 
the applicant concluded that while the objective of the supportive study CL3-025 was to obtain the full 
response in patients partially responders to a 4-week treatment with agomelatine 25mg, the objective 
of studies CL3-042 and CL3-043 was to reverse the course of the outcome of patients with early poor 
improvement,  and  that  the  conclusion  in  CL3-025  was  not  valid  for  the  posology  in  question. 
However, the CHMP did not agree that the clinical benefit of increasing the dose from 25 mg to 50 mg 
after two  weeks  had been convincingly  documented. The  applicant  was  requested  to  perform  a  new 
study randomising between 25 and 50 mg in patients not responding to the initial dose of 25 mg after 
two  weeks  of  treatment  in  accordance  with  the  proposed  posology.  The  applicant  committed  to 
perform a study with an acceptable design as a FUM. 
Short-term efficacy results 
Agomelatine showed statistically significant superiority to placebo in the pivotal trials CL3-042 and 
CL3-043,  as  measured  on  the  HAM-D.  In  total,  these  two  studies  included  631  patients,  who  were 
treated  with  agomelatine  25  mg  with  a  possible  dose  increase  to  50  mg  after  2  weeks.  No  active 
comparator was included in the study design. The absolute advantage of agomelatine over placebo at 
the  end of  week  6  was  3.18  points  on  the  HAM-D  in  the  FAS  in  study  CL3-042  and  2.41  in  study 
CL3-043.  These  absolute  differences  were  in  line  with  results  in  other  studies  comparing 
antidepressants  to  placebo,  but  could  not  be  interpreted  directly  since  an  active  comparator  was  not 
included. 
Page 43 of 66 
The  pivotal  studies  CL3-022,  -023  and  -024  included  a  total  of  1444  patients.  CL3-022  and  -023 
compared the efficacy of agomelatine 25 mg vs. placebo with fluoxetine 20 mg and paroxetine 20 mg, 
respectively,  as  active  comparators  to  check  assay  sensitivity.  No  direct  comparison  between 
agomelatine  and  fluoxetine  or  paroxetine  was  thus  planned  or  performed.  In  CL3-024  a  four-armed 
design was used comparing both agomelatine 25 mg and 50 mg to placebo, again including fluoxetine 
to  ensure  assay  sensitivity.  None  of  these  studies  showed  any  statistically  significant  difference 
between  agomelatine  treatment  and  placebo.  Only  in  CL3-022  the  active  comparator  (fluoxetine  20 
mg) proved to be superior to placebo. The lack of efficacy of the active comparator drugs was believed 
mainly to be due to an insufficient dose and possibly to unusually high placebo responder rates. 
Although  the  results  for  agomelatine  on  the  average  seemed  similar  to  the  results  for  the  SSRI 
comparators,  the  overall  impression  was  that  the  proportion  of  non-significant  results  is  probably 
larger  for  agomelatine  compared  to  SSRIs  in  general.  Three  of  the  six  studies  indicated  a  possible 
treatment effect of agomelatine compared to placebo. Trial failure did not seem to be due to lack of 
power  since  the  number  of  patients  included  was  larger  than  in  the  studies  showing  a  positive 
treatment effect; it was the efficacy estimate that was very small. A meta-analysis of these six studies 
resulted in an overall estimate of the difference between agomelatine (also including sub-therapeutic 
doses 1 and 5 mg) and placebo of 1.5 on the HAM-D with a 95% confidence interval [0.80, 2.22]. The 
CHMP considered this difference to be of doubtful clinical relevance and one of the major objections 
against the approval of agomelatine. In their response the applicant referred to a newly finished short-
term (6 weeks) study, CL3-046, where agomelatine (flexible dose 25 to 50 mg) and sertraline (50 to 
100 mg) were compared. Although the primary objective was to assess the efficacy on the rest-activity 
cycle,  the  short-term  antidepressant  efficacy  was  evaluated  using  the  HAM-D  and  CGI  scales.  The 
head-to-head  comparison  (LOCF,  FAS)  showed  a  statistically  significant  superiority  of  agomelatine 
over  sertraline  on  HAM-D  total  score  (pre-specified  efficacy  analysis:  difference  =  1.68,  p=0.031). 
Although  the  magnitude  of  effect  was  still  considered  to  be  of  marginal  clinical  relevance,  it  was 
acknowledged that agomelatine had documented some short-term efficacy. 
Long-term efficacy results 
Study CL3-021 was designed as a relapse prevention study comparing agomelatine 25 mg to placebo 
following 8 weeks open treatment with agomelatine. During the open treatment period mean HAM-D 
score was reduced from 26.1 to 6.1. During the 26 weeks of double blind treatment the incidence of 
relapse was 25.9% in the agomelatine group vs. 23.5% in the placebo group, HR= 1.046, logrank p= 
0.833. The relapse rates observed during treatment both in the agomelatine group and in the placebo 
group  actually  corresponded  to  reports  on  relapse  in  patients  successfully  treated  with  other 
antidepressants who are no longer receiving pharmacological treatment and importantly, there was no 
difference between agomelatine and placebo. No relapse preventing effect was thus demonstrated in 
the  pre-specified  analyses.  In  post  hoc  defined  subgroup  analyses  in  patients  with  baseline  HAM-
D>25 and CGI-S≥5 the estimated hazard ratio was 0.63 (p=0.125). The proportion of patients in this 
subgroup  was  46%.  Only  when  these  patients  were  followed  until  W52,  the  difference  between 
agomelatine and placebo became statistically significant (HR=0.57, p=0.046). 
After the negative CHMP opinion in 2006 an additional relapse prevention study was finalised. This 
study,  CL3-041,  included  492  patients  with  Major  Depressive  Disorder.  A  statistically  significant 
difference in time to relapse in the total population was demonstrated, HR=0.458, logrank p=0.0001. 
20.6% relapsed in the agomelatine group vs 41.4% in the placebo group. In a subgroup of patients with 
HAM-D≥25 (79.6% of the total population) a slightly larger effect was shown, 21.9% vs 45.1% in the 
agomelatine and placebo group, respectively (HR=0.432, logrank p<0.0001). 
There were striking differences (perhaps related to patient selection) in the results of the two relapse 
prevention  studies.  Even  if  the  main  criterion  of  a  HAM-D  score  of  at  least  22  was  used  in  both 
studies,  there  was  a  different  proportion  of  patients  with  more  severe  depression  (HAM-D≥25)  in 
study CL3-041 (approximately 80% in CL3-041 vs 46%in CL3-021). Even though the reasons for the 
inconsistency between the results of the two studies remained unknown, the results of study CL3-041 
were  accepted  as  a  demonstration  of  maintenance  of  efficacy.  No  difference  in  efficacy  between 
severely depressed patients and patients with moderate/mild depression was found. 
Page 44 of 66 
 
Recently submitted data after extension to 10 months in study CL3-041 seemed to sustain and confirm 
the results achieved after 6 months, as the percentage of patients with relapse over 44 weeks was still 
more than two-fold lower in the agomelatine group compared to the placebo group. 
In  addition,  there  was  long-term  data  from  two  double-blind  extensions  of  short-term  studies  (CL3-
022  and  CL3-035);  the  applicant  claimed  these  were  supportive  of  long-term  efficacy.  However,  in 
study  CL3-022,  at  6  months  there  was  no  difference  between  the  placebo  and  agomelatine  arms  in 
terms of withdrawals / patients staying on treatment, while more patients remained in the fluoxetine 
arm. This was not reassuring and questioned the effect of agomelatine. In the long-term phase of CL3-
035, global assessment by the CGI-I was the primary outcome measure. Although the results showed 
that agomelatine 25-50 mg was superior to venlafaxine 75-150 mg and the results were supported by 
trends  in  favour  of  agomelatine  in  the  long-term  analysis  on  the  remitters  (60.0%  versus  50.3% 
respectively,  p=0.076),  bias  from  the  initial  focus  on  subjective  sleep  parameters  in  favour  of 
agomelatine versus venlafaxine could not be excluded. The venlafaxine dose (75-150 mg/d) might be 
viewed as sub-optimal. It was also considered a weakness that only the CGI scale was used as a rating 
scale and not a more specific depression rating scale 
In addition, as mentioned earlier under Clinical studies in special populations, there was also a lack of 
convincing data on efficacy in the elderly.  
In  summary,  some  positive  treatment  effect  of  agomelatine  in  Major  Depressive  Episodes  was 
demonstrated  although  the  magnitude  of  effect  was  still  considered  to  be  of  marginal  clinical 
relevance.  Results  on  long-term  efficacy  differed  between  the  two  relapse  prevention  studies  –  only 
the more recent study including a larger proportion of patients with more severe depression succeeded 
in demonstrating a significant difference in time to relapse. 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  of  agomelatine was  investigated  in  all  clinical  studies  of the  overall agomelatine  clinical 
development programme, 57 completed studies and 8 ongoing studies at the cut-off date of 31st March 
2007 (4 Phase III studies in MDD patients, 1 Phase III study in bipolar I depressed patients, 1 Phase II 
study in children with Smith-Magenis syndrome and 2 studies in healthy volunteers). 
The 57 completed studies comprised: 
- 
27  PKH/phase  I  studies:  25  conducted  in  healthy  volunteers,  1  in  subjects  with  renal 
impairment and 1 in subjects with liver impairment 
- 
30 phase II/III studies conducted in patients: 13 in MDD patients, 2 specific safety studies in 
MDD (or bipolar or Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD)) and 15 in other indications. 
The ongoing studies were assessed only for serious adverse events using the cut-off date of 31st March 
2007. 
•  Patient exposure 
The  number  of  exposed  individuals  (healthy  volunteers,  MDD  patients  including  bipolar  patients, 
patients  with  Seasonal  Affective  Disorder  (SAD),  severely  ill  hospitalised  depressed  patients,  and 
patients  in  other  indications)  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  agomelatine,  in  either  controlled  or 
open studies, by oral or i.v. route, is presented in Table 8. 
phase I studies 
MDD patients1 
Table 8: Number of individuals who received at least one dose of agomelatine. 
Patients in other 
No. of individuals  Volunteers in 
indications 
782 
- 
782 
Completed studies  522 
Ongoing studies3,4 
10 
Total 
532 
1 including 21 bipolar patients and 355 patients with Seasonal Affective Disorder 
2 not taken into account were 9 children with Smith-Magenis Syndrome exposed to agomelatine and 33 patients of cross-over 
studies who received the comparator or placebo in the first treatment period 
3 cut-off: 31 March 2007 
4 estimated number of patients on agomelatine in ongoing studies = number of included patients x ½ (2-arm studies) or 2/3 
(3-arm studies including 2 agomelatine arms) 
52602 
538 
5798 
3956 
528 
4484 
Total exposed 
Page 45 of 66 
 
The strategy of the overall safety evaluation was: 
- An analysis of safety data collected from pharmacological studies in healthy volunteers (or subjects 
with renal or liver impairment). Special attention was paid to the emergence of adverse events in the 
drug-drug interaction studies, since concomitant treatments are prevalent in the MDD populations. 
- An analysis of the pooled safety data from all completed Phase II/III studies in patients (whatever the 
indication)  (Overall  Safety  Set,  N  =  6931).  This  dataset  was  used  to  identify  potential  non-specific 
safety  concerns  and  rare  events.  These  patients  received  either  agomelatine,  placebo,  fluoxetine, 
paroxetine  or  venlafaxine  treatment.  Analyses  were  performed  by  treatment  group  (and  by 
agomelatine dose group for some analyses). 
-  Analyses  of  several  study  groupings  were  made  in  order  to  provide  a  greater  coherence  in 
population, study design and patient exposure. A particular focus was made on double-blind placebo-
controlled studies in MDD patients; the descriptive analyses are presented first for short-term and then 
long-term double-blind placebo-controlled studies, before other groupings. Analyses were performed 
by treatment group and by agomelatine dose. Patients who received the therapeutic agomelatine doses, 
25mg or 50mg, were also pooled to provide a clearer clinical picture.  
The main analysis sets were: 
- Short-term double-blind (DB) placebo-controlled (PC) MDD Set (N = 2973): an analysis of the first 
6 to 8 weeks of treatment in studies with similar designs. 
- Long-term DB PC MDD Set (N = 1244): studies that were extended after the short-term observation 
period,  up  to  6  months.  Only  patients  who  entered  the  extension  period  were  considered.  These 
patients  received  either  agomelatine,  placebo,  fluoxetine  or  paroxetine.  Analyses  were  performed 
mainly over the period from 6 to 24 treatment weeks. 
-  DB  PC  MDD  Set  (N  =  2973):  an  analysis  of  double-blind  placebo-controlled  MDD  studies 
irrespective of study duration. This set was used to limited extent in the analysis of adverse events of 
special interest to avoid unnecessary repetition. 
- All MDD Set (N = 5822): an analysis of the pool of all MDD studies to describe the overall exposure 
in the depressed population and to globally assess the consistency of the agomelatine safety profile, 
whatever  the  conditions  of  evaluation  (placebo-controlled,  active-controlled,  or  open).  Patients 
received either agomelatine, placebo, fluoxetine, paroxetine or venlafaxine. 
In total, 4738 patients irrespective of the studied disorder (Overall Safety Set) received agomelatine. 
The  mean  treatment  duration  under  agomelatine  (all  doses)  was  4.2  ±  3.6  months  (i.e.  about  16 
weeks), ranging from 1 day to 19 months. 
When considering the target population of depressed patients (All MDD Set), a total of 3956 patients 
were exposed to agomelatine. Among these patients, 1030 had 6-month of exposure to agomelatine. 
368 patients received agomelatine 25 mg and 32 patients received agomelatine 50 mg for 350 days or 
more. 
The  short-term,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  MDD  Safety  Set  included  1120  patients  receiving 
agomelatine  at  25/50  mg  doses.  The  long-term,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  MDD  Safety  Set 
included 511 depressed patients treated up to 24 weeks with agomelatine 25/50 mg. 319 patients in the 
MDD population were 60 years or older, while 109 patients were 65 years or older. 
Of  the  patients  ≥  75  years  receiving  agomelatine,  13  were  MDD  patients.  All  of  these  were  treated 
with 25 mg agomelatine. Due to the limited number of patients included in the studies, agomelatine 
should be prescribed with caution in this age group (≥ 65 years of age). 
Table 9: Number of exposed patients by safety set, treatment and duration 
Page 46 of 66 
 
 
 
All exposed 
individuals1 
  All exposed 
patients 
(Overall 
safety set) 
All periods 
agomelatine 
5260 
agomelatine 
47383 
All exposed depressed2 patients 
(all MDD set) 
all periods 
for 5 months 
for 6 months5
for 1 year6 
agomelatine 
3956 
1704 
1030 
400 
placebo 
826 
293 
68 
- 
active 
control4 
1040 
565 
164 
- 
1 including healthy and patient volunteers 
2 patients with MDE in the framework of Unipolar disorder except, 13 patients with Bipolar II (CL2-014), 21 patients with    
  Bipolar I (CL3-029) depressive disorders and 355 patients with Seasonal affective disorder (CL3-037).  
3 in addition, 9 children with Smith-Magenis Syndrome exposed to agomelatine and 33 patients of cross-over studies  
  who have not received agomelatine in the first treatment period were not taken into account, according to OSA rules  
4 fluoxetine, paroxetine or venlafaxine 
5 exposed for at least 175 days 
6 exposed for at least 350 days 
Demographics 
In the Overall Safety Set (OSS), the mean (± SD) patient age was 46.4 ± 15.5 years with a range of 16 - 
102  years.  The  patients  in  the  All  MDD  Set  were  slightly  younger  at  43.4  ±  12.0  years,  while  the 
patients in the DB PC MDD Set averaged 44.0 ± 12.5 years. 
As  was  expected  in  this  disorder,  most  patients  were  female:  69.3%  in  the  OSS,  71.0%  in  the  All 
MDD Set and 69.8% in the DB PC MDD Set. 
Just over 60% of patients had previously received psychotropic treatments. Taking the DB PC MDD 
Set  as  an  example,  these  treatments  were  mainly  antidepressants  (47.2%),  in  particular  Selective 
Serotonin  Reuptake  Inhibitors  (SSRIs;  29.2%),  anxiolytics  (33.5%,  mainly  benzodiazepine 
derivatives:  33.1%)  and  hypnotics/sedatives  (19.2%,  mainly  benzodiazepine-related  drugs:  13.7%). 
There were no relevant differences between groups. 
Demographic  data  from  the  Short-term  Double-blind  Placebo-controlled MDD  Set,  showed that  age 
ranged from 18 to 80 years with a mean (± SD) of 43.9 ± 13.0 years in the agomelatine 25/50mg group 
and 45.5 ± 12.9 years in the placebo group. The vast majority of the patients (about 87%) were less 
than 60 years old. The mean age of patients in the agomelatine and placebo groups was slightly higher 
than  for  fluoxetine  and  paroxetine,  because  only  the  former  groups  included  patients  in  a  study 
conducted in elderly (≥ 60 years) patients (study CL3-026). 
Most of the patients were female: about 70% in all treatment groups. 
About 60% of patients were taking at least one concomitant treatment at inclusion (mainly anxiolytic 
benzodiazepine derivatives), with no relevant differences between groups. 
The  main  demographic  data  and  other  baseline  characteristics  of  patients  of  the  Long-term  Double-
blind Placebo-controlled MDD Set and of the other analysis sets did not differ notably from those in 
the Short-term Double-blind Placebo-controlled MDD Set. 
•  Adverse events 
Agomelatine at the 50 mg dose appeared to cause a slightly higher incidence rate of AEs than at the 25 
mg  dose.  However  this  did  not  appear  to  be  a  serious  problem,  and  an  increase  in  SEAEs  was  not 
reported. Most AEs seemed to be rather mild to moderate. 
In  the  Short-term  Double-blind  Placebo-controlled  MDD  Set  (up  to  6/8  weeks),  53.6%  of  patients 
reported  at  least  one  adverse  event  emergent  under  treatment,  with  an  incidence  in  the  agomelatine 
25/50mg group (52.8%) similar to that in the placebo group (51.7%). 
Emergent adverse events by system organ class and preferred term reported by at least 1% of patients 
exposed  to  agomelatine  25/50mg  in  the  Short-term  Double-blind  Placebo-controlled  MDD  Set  are 
detailed in Table 38. 
Page 47 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most frequently affected system organ classes in the agomelatine 25/50mg group, and at a higher 
rate  than  in  the  placebo  group  (difference  of  at  least  1%),  were  Nervous  system  disorders  (24.7% 
versus 21.5%), Psychiatric disorders (10.5% versus 8.8%) and Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
(5.1% versus 3.6%). 
Table 10 Common emergent adverse events by SOC and PT (≥ 1% in the agomelatine 25/50 mg group) – Short-term double-
blind placebo-controlled MDD Set (W0-W6/W8) – analysis by treatment group 
System Organ Class 
placebo 
n 
Preferred term 
N=998 
PM=1337.6 
fluoxetine 
20mg 
N=284 
PM=377 
agomelatine 
25/50mg 
N=1120 
PM=1486.1 
% 
pm 
52.8  39.77
24.7  18.64
14.1  10.63
4.10 
5.5 
2.15 
2.9 
0.87 
1.2 
1.0 
0.74 
19.4  14.60
5.79 
7.7 
2.62 
3.5 
2.36 
3.1 
1.82 
2.4 
1.35 
1.8 
0.94 
1.3 
7.94 
10.5 
1.75 
2.3 
1.61 
2.1 
7.87 
10.5 
1.82 
2.4 
1.48 
2.0 
1.01 
1.3 
n 
591 
277 
158 
61 
32 
13 
11 
217 
86 
39 
35 
27 
20 
14 
118 
26 
24 
117 
27 
22 
15 
pm 
49.3  37.14  191 
77 
20.4  15.38 
38 
9.02 
12.0 
10 
2.12 
2.8 
21 
2.65 
3.5 
1 
0.53 
0.7 
10 
1.1 
0.80 
88 
23.6  17.77 
45 
5.31 
7.0 
16 
4.77 
6.3 
14 
3.45 
4.6 
1 
0.80 
1.1 
5 
1.06 
1.4 
2 
1.06 
1.4 
33 
6.90 
9.2 
5 
1.86 
2.5 
5 
0.53 
0.7 
44 
7.16 
9.5 
12 
2.65 
3.5 
6 
1.59 
2.1 
3 
0.27 
0.4 
n  % 
140 
58 
34 
8 
10 
2 
3 
67 
20 
18 
13 
3 
4 
4 
26 
7 
2 
27 
10 
6 
1 
n  % 
516 
215 
141 
31 
23 
4 
8 
186 
71 
33 
26 
13 
21 
11 
97 
22 
23 
88 
26 
12 
12 
pm 
51.7  38.58
21.5  16.07
14.1  10.54
2.32 
3.1 
1.72 
2.3 
0.30 
0.4 
0.60 
0.8 
18.6  13.91
5.31 
7.1 
2.47 
3.3 
1.94 
2.6 
0.97 
1.3 
1.57 
2.1 
0.82 
1.1 
7.25 
9.7 
1.64 
2.2 
1.72 
2.3 
6.58 
8.8 
1.94 
2.6 
0.90 
1.2 
0.90 
1.2 
All 
Nervous system disorders 
    Headache 
    Dizziness 
    Somnolence 
    Migraine 
    Tremor 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
    Nausea 
    Dry mouth 
    Diarrhoea 
    Abdominal pain upper 
    Constipation 
    Dyspepsia 
Infections and infestations 
    Influenza 
    Nasopharyngitis 
Psychiatric disorders 
    Insomnia 
    Anxiety 
    Depression 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
    Fatigue 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
    Hyperhidrosis 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
    Back pain 
Investigations 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
    Vertigo 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Surgical and medical 
procedures 
Vascular disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
SOC: System Organ Class  
N: number of patients by treatment group 
n: number of patients with at least one emergent AE in a given PT or in a given SOC and a given treatment group 
%: (n/N) x 100 
PM: total number of patient-months in a given treatment group 
1.41 
1.28 
1.14 
0.81 
1.59 
1.59 
2.92 
1.59 
1.72 
0.75 
1.27 
0.90 
2.3 
1.0 
1.7 
1.2 
1.9 
1.7 
1.5 
1.1 
2.1 
2.1 
3.9 
2.1 
0.94 
0.87 
0.81 
0.75 
1.27 
1.12 
0.80 
- 
0.53 
3.77 
1.14 
2.22 
3.98 
0.80 
0.80 
4.19 
0.97 
3.29 
PT: Preferred Term 
21 
19 
17 
12 
23 
10 
17 
12 
6 
6 
11 
6 
1.3 
1.2 
1.1 
1.0 
1.7 
1.5 
1.1 
- 
0.7 
5.0 
1.5 
3.0 
5.3 
1.1 
1.1 
5.6 
1.3 
4.4 
1.08 
1.01 
1.57 
0.90 
1.86 
1.59 
14 
13 
12 
10 
17 
15 
4.31 
1.95 
2.65 
1.06 
4.19 
1.50 
56 
13 
44 
56 
17 
33 
3.84 
1.01 
4.24 
2.12 
2.69 
0.52 
15 
3 
3 
1.4 
1.3 
2.1 
1.2 
2.5 
2.1 
5.7 
2.6 
3.5 
1.4 
5.6 
2.0 
3.6 
0.7 
5.6 
2.8 
5.1 
1.3 
21 
12 
16 
15 
64 
29 
56 
20 
10 
4 
57 
15 
36 
7 
16 
8 
3 
- 
2 
0.74 
1.75 
1.20 
1.59 
1.27 
7 
6 
0.8 
2.3 
1.6 
1.1 
1.7 
2.1 
1.0 
17 
16 
26 
11 
3 
6 
paroxetine 
20mg 
N=283 
PM=422.6 
% 
pm 
67.5  45.20
27.2  18.22
13.4  8.99 
2.37 
3.5 
4.97 
7.4 
0.24 
0.4 
3.5 
2.37 
31.1  20.82
15.9  10.65
3.79 
5.7 
3.31 
5.0 
0.24 
0.4 
1.18 
1.8 
0.7 
0.47 
11.7  7.81 
1.8 
1.18 
1.18 
1.8 
15.6  10.41
2.84 
4.2 
1.42 
2.1 
0.71 
1.1 
24 
12 
17 
8 
10 
2 
12 
8.5 
4.2 
6.0 
2.8 
3.5 
0.7 
4.2 
5.68 
2.84 
4.02 
1.89 
2.37 
0.47 
2.84 
13 
4.6 
3.08 
6 
4 
4 
3 
6 
1 
1 
10 
3 
2.1 
1.4 
1.4 
1.1 
2.1 
0.4 
0.4 
3.5 
1.1 
1.42 
0.95 
0.95 
0.71 
1.42 
0.24 
0.24 
2.37 
0.71 
2 
0.7 
0.47 
Page 48 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
pm: number of patients with at least one adverse event in a given level and a given treatment group per 100 patient-months = (n/PM) x 100 
Of  the  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  in  the  short-term  safety  set,  observed  in  the 
agomelatine 25/50 mg group (in ≥ 2% of patients)  and with an incidence ≥ to that on placebo, were: 
headache (14.1% versus 14.1%), nausea (7.7% versus 7.1%), dizziness (5.5% versus 3.1%), dry mouth 
(3.  5%  versus  3.3%),  diarrhoea  (3.1%  versus  2.6%),  somnolence  (2.9%  versus  2.3%)  fatigue  (2.6% 
versus 2.0%), abdominal pain upper (2.4% versus 1.3%), influenza (2.3% versus 2.2%), anxiety (2.0% 
versus 1.2%). 
In this set, 3 EAEs (Emergent Adverse Events) were observed with a statistically significantly higher 
frequency in the agomelatine 25/50 mg group than in the placebo group: dizziness (described above), 
paraesthesia: 0.9% versus 0.1%, and vision blurred: 0.6% versus none. 
The nature and the incidence of the most common EAEs (Emergent Adverse Events) on agomelatine 
were close to those on placebo, except for dizziness. 
In the Long-term Double-blind Placebo-controlled MDD Set (from 6 to 24 weeks), 37.9% of patients 
reported at least one adverse event emergent under treatment, respectively 38.8% in the agomelatine 
25/50mg group and 38.4% in the placebo group. 
Emergent adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients exposed to agomelatine in the Long-term 
Double-blind Placebo-controlled MDD Set are listed in Table 39. 
In this set, the most frequently affected system organ classes in the agomelatine group were roughly 
the same as those in the short-term, with a lower frequency. 
Table 11 Common emergent adverse events by SOC and PT (≥ 1% in the agomelatine 25/50 mg group) – Long-term 
double-blind placebo-controlled MDD set (W6-W24) – Analysis by treatment group 
System Organ Class 
    Preferred term 
placebo 
agomelatine 
25/50mg 
N=511 
PM=1762.6 
N=406 
PM=1370.1 
fluoxetine 
20mg 
N=222 
PM=818.3 
paroxetine 
20mg 
N=105 
PM=364.7 
All 
Nervous system disorders 
    Headache 
    Dizziness 
Infections and infestations 
    Influenza 
    Nasopharyngitis 
    Sinusitis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
    Diarrhoea 
    Nausea 
    Dyspepsia 
    Abdominal pain upper 
    Constipation 
Psychiatric disorders 
    Insomnia 
    Anxiety 
    Depression 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
    Back pain 
    Arthralgia 
Investigations 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
pm 
n  % 
n  % 
pm 
198  38.8 11.23 156  38.4 11.39
11.6 3.43
61 
6.7  1.97
42 
1.0  0.29
6 
13.6 4.01
50 
3.7  1.09
14 
2.7  0.80
11 
- 
- 
7 
7.6  2.26
41 
1.0  0.29
8 
0.7  0.22
8 
1.0  0.29
6 
0.5  0.15
6 
0.5  0.15
6 
5.4  1.61
41 
0.7  0.22
13 
1.0  0.29
9 
1.0  0.29
7 
11.9 3.46
8.2  2.38
1.2  0.34
9.8  2.84
2.7  0.79
2.2  0.62
1.4  0.40
8.0  2.33
1.6  0.45
1.6  0.45
1.2  0.34
1.2  0.34
1.2  0.34
8.0  2.33
2.5  0.74
1.8  0.51
1.4  0.40
47 
27 
4 
55 
15 
11 
- 
31 
4 
3 
4 
2 
2 
22 
3 
4 
4 
n  % 
71 
24 
18 
- 
23 
6 
4 
- 
15 
2 
4 
2 
- 
- 
16 
4 
5 
5 
pm 
32.0 8.68
10.8 2.93
8.1  2.20
- 
- 
10.4 2.81
2.7  0.73
1.8  0.49
- 
- 
6.8  1.83
0.9  0.24
1.8  0.49
0.9  0.24
- 
- 
- 
- 
7.2  1.96
1.8  0.49
2.3  0.61
2.3  0.61
pm 
44.8  12.89
11.4  3.29 
2.9  0.82 
1.0  0.27 
9.5  2.74 
3.8  1.10 
1.0  0.27 
1.0  0.27 
9.5  2.74 
2.9  0.82 
- 
1.9  0.55 
1.0  0.27 
- 
n  % 
47 
12 
3 
1 
10 
4 
1 
1 
10 
3 
- 
2 
1 
- 
11 
3 
2 
1 
10.5  3.02 
2.9  0.82 
1.9  0.55 
1.0  0.27 
- 
- 
25 
14 
5 
14 
10 
9 
6 
9 
4.9  1.42
2.7  0.79
1.0  0.28
2.7  0.79
2.0  0.57
1.8  0.51
1.2  0.34
1.8  0.51
23 
9 
4 
11 
15 
6 
9 
6 
5.7  1.68
10 
4.5  1.22
2.2  0.66
1.0  0.29
2.7  0.80
3.7  1.09
1.5  0.44
2.2  0.66
1.5  0.44
3 
- 
2 
4 
3 
2 
3 
1.4  0.37
- 
- 
0.9  0.24
1.8  0.49
1.4  0.37
0.9  0.24
1.4  0.37
3 
1 
- 
5 
1 
2 
3 
1 
2.9  0.82 
1.0  0.27 
- 
4.8  1.37 
- 
1.0  0.27 
1.9  0.55 
2.9  0.82 
1.0  0.27 
Page 49 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
11 
2.2  0.62
disorders 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
Surgical and medical procedures 
SOC: System Organ Class 
N: number of patients by treatment group 
n: number of patients with at least one emergent AE in a given preferred term or in a given SOC and a given treatment group 
%: (n/N) x 100 
PM: total number of patient-months in a given treatment group 
pm: number of patients with at least one adverse event in a given level and a given treatment group per 100 patient-months = 
(n/PM) x 100 
1.9  0.55 
2.9  0.82 
0.7  0.22
0.7  0.22
1.0  0.28
0.5  0.12
2 
5 
1 
3 
3 
- 
- 
- 
Of  the  most  common  emergent  adverse events (in ≥ 2    %  of  the  patients  in the  agomelatine  group) 
reported over the long-term treatment period, with an incidence ≥ to that on placebo, were: headache 
(8.2% versus 6.7%), back pain (2.7% versus 2.2%) and insomnia (2.5% versus 0.7%). 
The  most  common  emergent  adverse  events  reported  in  the  agomelatine  25/50mg  group  over  the 
short-term  treatment  period  were  generally  observed  with  a  substantially  lower  frequency  over  the 
long-term treatment period. 
In this set, 2 EAEs were observed with a statistically significantly higher frequency in the agomelatine 
25/50mg  group  than  in  the  placebo  group:  insomnia  (mentioned  above)  and  sinusitis  (1.4%  versus 
none). 
With regards to the results by dose of agomelatine in the Long-term Double-blind Placebo-controlled 
MDD  Set,  35.8%  of  patients  reported at least  one  emergent  adverse  event in the  agomelatine  25mg 
group and 48.3% in the agomelatine 50mg group vs 38.4% in the placebo group. 
In patients treated with agomelatine for one year, there were no unexpected EAEs (Emergent Adverse 
Events)  that  were  not  seen  in  short-term  treatment.  Out  of  the  400  patients  of  the  "One-year" 
Agomelatine Exposure Set, 368 received the 25mg dose and 32 the 50mg dose. No data for placebo or 
active control are available over this observation period. 
The  analyses  focused  on  adverse  events  that  occurred  after  6  months  of  agomelatine  treatment  (in 
accordance  with  the  ICH  guideline  on  patient  exposure).  Emergent  adverse  events  with  first 
occurrence after 6 treatment months in more than 1 patient are displayed in Table 40. 
Few  patients  were  concerned.  Besides  headache  and  back  pain  (which  were  also  among  the  most 
frequent EAEs in the Short-term and/or Long-term Double-blind Placebo-controlled MDD Sets), most 
of  the  EAEs  reported  from  6  months  onwards  (in  8%  of  the  patients  of  the  set)  were  infectious 
diseases, events probably linked to intercurrent diseases, not caused by study treatment. 
Table  12:  Emergent  adverse  events  under  treatment  in  the  «One-year»  agomelatine  exposure  set  (N=400)  –  number  of 
patients having reported at least one EAE by PT from 6-months onward – (restricted to EAE, experienced by more than 1 
patient). 
Preferred Term 
   Nasopharyngitis 
   Headache 
   Back pain 
   Gastroenteritis 
   Influenza 
   Bronchitis 
   Sinusitis 
   Urinary tract infection 
   Insomnia 
   Weight increased 
   Upper respiratory tract infection 
   Tonsillitis 
   Dizziness 
   Myalgia 
   Rheumatoid arthritis 
   Hypertension 
   Seasonal allergy 
Page 50 of 66 
n (%) 
12 (3.0) 
11 (2.8) 
9 (2.3) 
6 (1.5) 
5 (1.3) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
3 (0.8) 
3 (0.8) 
3 (0.8) 
3 (0.8) 
3 (0.8) 
3 (0.8) 
3 (0.8) 
 
 
   Respiratory tract infection viral 
   Bronchitis acute 
   Tooth abscess 
   Respiratory tract infection 
   Acute sinusitis 
   Laryngitis 
   Skin infection 
   Nausea 
   Abdominal pain upper 
   Musculoskeletal stiffness 
   Fatigue 
   Asthenia 
   Decreased appetite 
   Hypercholesterolaemia 
   Palpitations 
   Conjunctivitis 
PT: preferred term 
n: number of patients having had their first emergent adverse event from 6 months of treatment 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
%: (n/N) x 100 
The  analysis  by  agomelatine  dose  revealed  that  after  6  months  of  treatment,  only  headache  was 
experienced  by  more  than  1  patient  on  50mg  (n=  2  patients).  However,  this  finding  should  be 
considered taking into account the low number of patients on 50mg in this set (n = 32). 
With  regards  to  the  serious  emergent  adverse  events  in  the  “One-Year”  Agomelatine  Exposure  Set, 
those  reported  on  agomelatine  25/50mg  from  6  months  onwards  were:  1  hysterosalpingo-
oophorectomy, 1 gastric bypass, 1 depression suicidal, 1 fibrocystic breast disease, 1 uterine disorder, 
and all considered not related to the study drug by the investigator. 
Overall, the long-term exposure to agomelatine did not seem to raise any particular safety concerns. 
•  Adverse events of special interest / Adverse events by organ system or syndrome 
The  frequency  of  suicides  in  the  agomelatine  treated  patients  appeared  similar  to  that  of  the 
comparator  drugs  in  the  short-term,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  MDD  set.  The  rates  were  also 
similar between the placebo and the agomelatine groups. The small number of deaths made it difficult 
to assess rates, and suicides/suicidality is to be specially monitored in post-marketing surveillance. 
With regard to manic episodes and seizures, there was no indication of an effect of agomelatine in the 
presented dataset. Body weight and sexual function appeared not to be affected in a significant way. 
Regarding haemmorhages, there was no clear indication of an excess risk with agomelatine. 
With  regard  to  liver  safety,  there  was  a  consistent  trend  throughout  the  dataset  of  more  cases  with 
potentially  clinically  important  elevation  of  aminotransferases  (>  3  x  ULN)  among  those  given 
agomelatine vs placebo, and the data suggested a dose-effect relationship. 
As regards cutaneous reactions, agomelatine appeared to be associated with different kinds of rash; the 
incidence  in  the  agomelatine  group  was  0.7%  vs  0.4%  for  placebo.  Also  hyperhidrosis,  pruritus, 
eczema  and  rash  were  reported.  The  incidence  of  severe  skin  and  subcutaneous  emergent  adverse 
events was 0.5% in the agomelatine 25/50mg group and 0.2% in the placebo group. Analysis of severe 
emergent adverse events according to agomelatine dose showed a higher incidence in the agomelatine 
50mg group (1.0%) than in the agomelatine 25mg group (0.4%). 
There was no indication of adverse effects of agomelatine on the cardiovascular system (see also the 
Pharmacodynamics section). 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
Page 51 of 66 
 
 
 
Deaths were analysed in the Overall Safety Set as a whole and subdivided into the All MDD Set and 
Other  indications.  Adverse  events  leading  to  death  were  considered  up  to  one  month  after  the  last 
study drug intake. 
No  deaths  occurred  in  healthy  or  patient  volunteer  studies.  In  the  Overall  Safety  Set  there  were  26 
deaths, of which 9 occurred in the All MDD set and 17 in studies in other indications. An overview of 
the incidence of deaths by treatment group and population is shown in Table 48. 
Table 13: Incidence of deaths – Overall Safety Set and All MDD Set 
Overall Safety Set 
All MDD 
Other Indications 
All 
n (%) 
N=6931 
26 (0.4) 
N=5822 
9 (0.2) 
N=1109 
17 (1.5) 
agomelatine
all doses 
n (%) 
N=4738 
20 (0.4) 
N=3956 
4 (0.1) 
N=782 
16 (2.0) 
placebo 
n (%) 
N=1153 
2 (0.2) 
N=826 
1 (0.1) 
N=327 
1 (0.3) 
fluoxetine 
20mg 
n (%) 
N=284 
1 (0.4)* 
N=284 
1 (0.4)* 
paroxetine 
20mg 
n (%) 
N=449 
3 (0.7) 
N=449 
3 (0.7) 
venlafaxine 
75-150mg 
n (%) 
N=307 
- 
N=307 
- 
NA 
NA 
NA 
* This patient died 18 months after the end of the study from a malignant melanoma diagnosed during study period 
N: number of exposed patients in the treatment group; n: number of deaths; NA: not applicable 
Overall, treatment with agomelatine was not associated with an increase in mortality in MDD patients. 
In  the  MDD  studies,  four  deaths  occurred  in  the  agomelatine  group  (4/3956,  0.1%),  an  occurrence 
similar to that seen on placebo (1/826, 0.1%). The deaths in both groups were all due to suicide. In the 
paroxetine  group,  two  deaths  were  due  to  suicide,  whilst  the  third  was  due  to  a  medical  cause 
unrelated to study drug (cardiac arrest). In the fluoxetine group, the only death observed occurred 18 
months after the end of the study further to a malignant melanoma diagnosed during study. 
In  indications  other  than  MDD,  however,  all  deaths  on  agomelatine  except  one  occurred  in  a  study 
involving  356  elderly  patients  who  had  Alzheimer’s  dementia  (CL2-011).  A  higher  percentage  of 
deaths occurred in the agomelatine (16/782, 2.0%) than placebo group (1/327, 0.3%). All deaths in the 
agomelatine group except one occurred in the study of patients with Alzheimer's disease, bringing the 
death rate in this study to 15/356 (4.2%).  It was considered that the difference in mortality between 
agomelatine and placebo groups in the Alzheimer study was probably related to an unbalance of risk 
factors of death between the agomelatine and placebo groups at baseline. A special warning regarding 
treatment of elderly patients with dementia has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Table 14 - Overview of deaths - Other indications 
Patient number 
Sex  Age  Exposure 
duration 
(days)* 
Time to onset** 
from drug 
discontinuation 
(days) 
Agomelatine all doses (N=782) 
77 
011250000100172 
95 
011250001500403 
F 
F 
F 
011250002200223 
F 
011250006500253 
F 
011250006600379 
011250000300335 
F 
011250001200034  M 
F 
011250001500161 
F 
011250001500258 
011250002200227 
F 
011250002400117  M 
011250006300024 
F 
011250006300353  M 
011250000100171  M 
011250000300333 
F 
015250006100202  M 
Placebo (N=327) 
011250001500100 
F 
89 
96 
86 
87 
75 
96 
85 
88 
73 
87 
78 
72 
83 
59 
92 
28 
72 
95 
154 
80 
140 
36 
17 
32 
136 
90 
134 
118 
139 
60 
1 
55 
18 
- 
- 
- 
- 
10 
8 
- 
- 
42 
3 
- 
- 
- 
9 
16 
7 
Dose 
Cause of death 
(preferred term) 
Causalitya 
1mg  Epilepsy NOS 
1mg  Accidental overdose 
(therapeutic agent) 
Doubtful1 
NR 
NR 
1mg  Pulmonary embolism 
NR 
1mg  Cardiopulmonary failure 
1mg  Sudden death unexplained  NR 
10mg Renal failure acute 
NR 
10mg Sudden death unexplained  NR 
NR 
10mg Choking 
Doubtful1 
10mg Myocardial infarction 
NR 
50mg Cardiac arrest 
50mg Haemorrhagic stroke 
NR 
50mg Sudden death unexplained  NR 
Doubtful1 
50mg Pulmonary embolism 
NR 
50mg Road traffic accident 
50mg Peripheral ischemia NOS  NR 
NR 
50mg Haemorrhagic stroke 
-  Malignant mediastinal 
NR 
Page 52 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* from first dose intake to death or treatment discontinuation 
** onset of adverse event leading to death 
NR: not related 
1 Doubtful adverse event was considered to be related to study drug in the Integrated Analysis of Safety 
a Investigator’s opinion 
neoplasm NOS 
Other serious adverse events 
The incidence of serious emergent adverse events (SEAEs) was lower in the MDD studies (4.2% of 
patients) than in other indications (7.3%). 
In  the  All  MDD  set,  151/3640  patients  (4.2%)  experienced  at  least  one  SEAE  in  the  agomelatine 
25/50mg  group  (125/3052,  4.1%,  in  the  25mg  group  and  26/588,  4.4%,  in  the  50mg  group)  versus 
34/826  (4.1%)  in  the  placebo  group.  Therefore  overall  no  serious  adverse  events  appeared  to  be 
significantly more frequently present on agomelatine than on placebo. 
At the preferred term level, the most common SEAEs in the agomelatine group were suicide attempt 
(0.6%  versus  0.4%  in  the  placebo  group),  depression  (0.5%  versus  0.8%  in  the  placebo  group),  fall 
(0.3% versus 0.3% in the placebo group). 
A total of 7 serious emergent adverse events were reported in studies performed in healthy or patient 
volunteers, 2 on placebo and 5 on agomelatine. 
These  serious emergent  adverse  events  were  transaminases  increased  and salmonella infection  (both 
on placebo). For agomelatine the following SEAEs were observed: Increased ALAT, ASAT and GGT 
(50 mg agomelatine), alcohol intoxication [asthenia, disorientation] (25 mg agomelatine), convulsion 
crisis  (25  mg  agomelatine),  general  condition  alteration  [decompensated  cirrhosis]  (25  mg 
agomelatine) and ventricular premature beats [ECG artefact] (agomelatine 50 + lithium). 
•  Laboratory findings 
Apart from elevation of liver function values, there was no safety signal regarding lab findings. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Influence of age 
- Children and adolescents 
No  clinical  trials  were  conducted  in  the  depressed  paediatric  population.  Due  to  lack  of  clinical 
experience agomelatine is not recommended in depressed children and adolescents under the age of 18 
years, and this is reflected in the SPC. 
- Elderly patients 
A specific pharmacokinetic study (PKH-010) was conducted in male and female volunteers aged 60 
years old or more (n = 20). There was no influence of age on agomelatine pharmacokinetics and no 
safety concern was raised. 
The  numbers  of  MDD  patients  ≥  65  years  who  reported  emergent  adverse  events  (EAEs),  severe 
EAEs, EAEs leading to treatment discontinuation and serious EAEs are summarized in Table 14. 
Table 15 - Incidence of patients ≥ 65 years who experienced EAEs – MDD safety set 
EAE 
Severe EAE 
EAE leading to discontinuation 
Serious EAE 
N: total number of exposed patients in the considered treatment group 
n: number of patients affected  %: nx100/N 
agomelatine 
(N = 109) 
% 
63.3 
10.1 
12.8 
4.6 
placebo 
(N=76) 
% 
59.2 
13.2 
9.2 
5.3 
The percentage of patients who experienced at least one emergent adverse event (EAE) was similar in 
Page 53 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
older versus younger patients (Table (2.7.4) 5-1). 
Table 16: Overall incidence of emergent adverse events in older versus younger MDD patients 
agomelatine 25/50mg 
placebo 
n/N 
176/299 
2054/3341 
68/107 
2162/3533 
8/14 
Patient age group 
≥ 60 years 
< 60 years 
≥ 65 years 
< 65 years 
≥ 75 years 
N: number of patients by treatment group 
n: number of patients with at least one emergent AE in a given age group and a given treatment group 
%: (n/N) x 100 
PM: total number of patient-months in a given treatment group 
pm: number of patients with at least one adverse event in a given age group and a given treatment group per 100 patient-months = (n/PM) x 
n/N 
73/121 
401/705 
45/76 
429/750 
7/15 
% 
60.3 
56.9 
59.2 
57.2 
46.7 
% 
58.9 
61.5 
63.6 
61.2 
57.1 
pm 
13.3 
12.8 
15.7 
12.8 
nc 
pm 
17.8 
19.4 
17.3 
19.3 
nc 
100 
nc: not calculated 
In MDD patients ≥ 65 years, no safety concern was seen in terms of adverse events, biochemical and 
haematological  parameters,  vital  signs  or  ECG.  The  slightly  higher  proportion  of  patients  who 
discontinued for EAE was due to headache, nausea and paraesthesia (2 patients corresponding 1.9% 
versus none for placebo). 
With the age cut-off of ≥ 75 years in the All MDD Set and treated with agomelatine 25/50mg, were 14 
patients (13 with MDD and 1 with bipolar disorder) all of whom received the 25mg dose. 
Overall, the benign tolerability profile of Valdoxan was confirmed in this population, however limited 
clinical data on the use of Valdoxan in elderly patients with Major Depression Episodes ≥ 65 years old 
with major depressive episodes was available, and this is reflected in the SPC. 
Renal impairment 
A  specially  designed  study  (PKH-015)  was  performed  to  assess  the  influence  of  severe  renal 
impairment  on  agomelatine  pharmacokinetic  plasma  parameters  after  the  administration  of  a  single 
25mg oral dose of agomelatine. Study PKH-015 revealed that in patients with severe renal impairment 
the Cmax and AUC increased approximately 40 and 25 % respectively, compared to healthy subjects 
 (see the Clinical Pharmacokinetic section). 
In the agomelatine clinical development program, the non-inclusion criteria in phase II and phase III 
study protocols prohibited patients with known renal disorders. However, some patients with moderate 
renal  impairment,  defined  as  a  calculated  creatinine  clearance  (corrected  for  body  surface)  <  50 
mL/min/1.73  m²,  were  included  and  therefore  the  safety  of  agomelatine  was  assessed  separately  in 
these patients. Only 39 patients fulfilled this criterion: 20 in the agomelatine group (18 on 25/50mg), 
14  in  the  placebo  group,  4  in  the  paroxetine  group  and  1  in  the  venlafaxine  group  (none  in  the 
fluoxetine  group).  Therefore,  only  a  brief  description  of  EAEs  and  potentially  clinically  significant 
abnormal biochemical and haematological values was given. The mean treatment duration was 4.0 ± 
4.2 months for the agomelatine 25/50mg-treated patients and 2.8 ± 2.2 months for the placebo-treated 
patients. For agomelatine 25/50mg-treated patients, 50.0% (9/18) experienced at least one EAE, versus 
35.7% (5/14) patients under placebo. 
1,300 patients with mild renal impairment 50 < ClCr < 80 mL/min were treated by agomelatine 25/50 
mg in Phase II and III studies. The available safety data did not raise any concern when compared to 
placebo. 
Overall,  it  was  agreed  that  no  relevant  modification  in  agomelatine  pharmacokinetic  parameters  is 
observed in patients with severe renal impairment. However, only limited clinical data on the use of 
Valdoxan  in  depressed  patients  with  severe  or  moderate  renal  impairment  with  major  depressive 
episodes  was  available.  As  a  result,  caution  is  to  be  exercised  when  prescribing  Valdoxan  to  these 
patients, and this is information is reflected in the SPC. 
Hepatic impairment and hepatotoxicity 
Page 54 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No data in patients with liver failure are available in phase II / III studies since this clinical condition 
was a non-inclusion criterion. However, a specific open study (PKH-014) was performed to evaluate 
the pharmacokinetics of agomelatine 25mg after a single oral dose in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh 
grade A) or moderate (Child-Pugh grade B) liver failure due to alcohol cirrhosis. 
As discussed in the Clinical Pharmacokinetic section, patients with cirrhosis, Child Pugh grade A and 
B, reported significantly higher plasma levels of agomelatine compared to matched healthy volunteers. 
Liver insufficiency was shown to increase AUC by up to 140 times and the safety of such large doses 
of  agomelatine  remained  largely  unknown.  Thus,  agomelatine  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with 
hepatic  insufficiency  (i.e.  cirrhosis  and  active  liver  disease)  (SPC  section  4.3).  In  addition,  it  was 
considered necessary to undertake appropriate risk minimisation steps, as outlined in section 4.4 of the 
SPC and in the RMP. 
Increases  in  liver  function  parameters  (>  3  ULN)  were  reported  commonly  in  the  clinical 
documentation (on 50 mg agomelatine) and in general more often in agomelatine treated subjects than 
in the placebo group. Crude incidences were 1,04% on agomelatine 25 mg and 1,39% on agomelatine 
50 mg as compared to 0,72% on placebo. The data suggested a dose-effect relationship, and these liver 
reactions  were  not  predictible.  The  Applicant  argued  that  none  of  the  patients  in  the  clinical  trials 
could be considered to be a Hy’s law case, and that the data provided an indication that agomelatine 
does not have the potential to cause severe liver injury. Hy’s law is considered useful and is applied 
widely  in  the  evaluation  of  risk  for  liver  injuries,  but  its  sensitivity  and  specificity  may  need 
validation. Since only less than 800 patients were exposed to the 50 mg dose, the risk of severe liver 
injury  was  uncertain.  The  liver  reactions  observed  were  hepatocellular  in  nature  and  were  usually 
reversible  in  a  few  weeks.  Some  reactions  recovered  during  continued  treatment  and  some  upon 
treatment discontinuation. Even if most of the liver reactions seemed to occur at the 50 mg dosage and 
appeared  early  during  treatment,  hepatic  reactions  were  also  noted  with  25mg  dosing  and  in  some 
cases  the  reaction  occured late  after  3  or  6  months agomelatine  treatment.  Serious  hepatic  reactions 
including hepatitis (cytolytic) and transaminase elevation > 10 x ULN were reported less frequently. 
One  case  of  hepatitis  that  did  not  recover  at  follow-up  (2.5  years  after  the  end  of  the  study)  after 
discontinuation of agomelatine, was of concern.  The mechanism of agomelatine related liver injury is 
unknown. Prolonged agomelatine treatment following development of transaminase elevation may be 
an important safety concern, particularly in patients with risk factors for liver injuries. 
It  was  considered  necessary  to  perform  liver  function  tests  at  initiation  and  then  periodically  after 
around  6  weeks  (end  of  acute  phase),  12  weeks  and  24  weeks  (end  of  maintenance  phase)  and 
thereafter when clinically indicated for both 25 and 50 mg dosing, until more data on the appropriate 
timing and duration of liver function monitoring become available. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
As  already  indicated  (see  paragraph  “Pharmacokinetic  interaction  studies”  in  “Clinical  aspects” 
section 3.4) co-administration of agomelatine and fluvoxamine increased AUC of agomelatine (AUC 
was  increased  61  times).  As  a  result,  the  concomitant  use  with  potent  CYP1A2  inhibitors  (e.g. 
fluvoxamine,  ciprofloxacin)  is  contraindicated  in  section  4.3,  and  potent  and  moderate  CYP1A2 
inhibitors are also included in section 4.4 and section 4.5 of the SPC. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
No discontinuation symptoms were apparent after termination of agomelatine treatment. However, for 
paroxetine  there  was  a  statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  of  discontinuation  symptoms  after 
one week. After two weeks no difference was reported. This seems to indicate that discontinuation-
emergent symptoms are not a problem associated with agomelatine treatment abrupt cessation. 
•  Post marketing experience 
At the cut-off date, i.e. 31 March 2007, agomelatine was only marketed in Ukraine (launch date: 19 
February 2007). From 19 February to 31 March 2007, 1820 packs of 28 tablets of agomelatine 25 mg 
were marketed in Ukraine. These data did not allow an estimation of reliable exposure figures (packs 
or  person  –  years).  No  data  by  age  group,  gender  or  dose  were  available  and  no  spontaneous  cases 
were reported over this period. 
Page 55 of 66 
 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Agomelatine  is  an  antidepressant  with  a  claimed  new  mechanism  of  action  and  a  different  safety 
profile (lack of clinically relevant weight gain, low risk of sexual dysfunction, low incidence of gastro-
intestinal reaction, absence of discontinuation symptoms and overall incidence rates of adverse events 
that are not different from placebo). 
The analysis of the pool safety data from all completed Phase II/III studies in patients, irrespective of 
the  indication  (Overall  Safety  Set)  included  a  total  of  6931  subjects.  Overall,  the  safety  profile 
appeared favourable. 
However, the CHMP had the following safety concerns: 
(cid:190)  Efficacy in elderly patients was not demonstrated. The applicant committed to perform a post-
marketing  study  of  efficacy  and  safety  of  agomelatine  in  patients  older  than  65  years  with  a 
special  focus  on  patients  aged  75  years  and  above.  The  applicant  adequately  described  the 
measures to deal with the difficulties related to recruitment of elderly, depressed patients, and 
the  design  of  the  study  seems  to  be  acceptable.  The  increased  mortality  in  the  agomelatine 
group relative to the placebo group observed in the study in Alzheimer patients was probably 
related to an unbalance of risk factors of death between groups at baseline. A warning against 
the use of agomelatine in Alzheimer patients is included in the SPC. 
(cid:190)  The issue of interaction with CYP1A2 inhibitors was re-solved (after the oral explanation given 
to the CHMP by the applicant on 21 October 2008) by contraindicating concomitant use with 
potent  CYP1A2  inhibitors  (e.g.  fluvoxamine,  ciprofloxacin)  in  section  4.3  and  including 
corresponding information in 4.5 of the SPC. 
(cid:190)  Hepatic reactions: Among patients treated with agomelatine 25/50 mg (N= 4068), the incidence 
of  emergent  elevations  of  ALAT  and/or  ASAT  >  3  x  ULN  in  patients  with  normal 
transaminases  at  baseline  was  originally  0.8%  as  compared  to  0.3%  in  the  placebo  group. 
Significantly  higher  incidences  were  observed  in  the  agomelatine  50mg  group  (1.3%).  The 
higher incidence of transaminases increase with higher dose was an important concern. The new 
data  provided  (whatever  the  transaminase  values  before  intake)  gave  incidences  of  1.04%  on 
agomelatine 25 mg and 1.39% on agomelatine 50 mg as compared to 0.72% on placebo. 
Serious hepatic reactions including hepatitis (cytolytic) and transaminase elevation > 10 x ULN 
were reported . 
Liver  function  tests  (LFT)  were  performed  at  baseline  and  during  agomelatine  treatment  as 
planned  in  the  clinical  studies.  The  transaminase  elevations  were  usually  detected  in  patients 
without  any  symptoms  and  were  reversible  after  treatment  discontinuation.  However,  one 
documented-case  with  no  recovery  at  follow-up  after  discontinuation  of  agomelatine  was 
reported.  It  was  concluded  that  continued  agomelatine  treatment  following  development  of 
transaminase  elevation  may  be  an  important  safety  concern,  particularly  in  patients  with  risk 
factors for liver injuries. 
The  incidence  of  abnormal  LFT  including  all  transaminase  levels  showed  a  clear  dose-effect 
relationship when 25mg dosing is compared to other doses of agomelatine or placebo. However, 
the  relative  risk  analysis,  which  takes  into  account  the  probability  to  detect  elevated  serum 
transaminases  increases  with  the  duration  of  observation,  show  no  effect  of  agomelatine  at 
doses inferior or equal to 25 mg. No correlation between the systemic exposure to agomelatine 
and the occurrence of liver injuries was found, suggesting that the hepatic reactions may not be 
predictable and may occur in susceptible patients. Although no predictable risk factors could be 
identified, alcohol consumption, concomitant medication or previous liver disorders were seen 
in some cases. The liver reactions with agomelatine seemed to be hepatocellular reactions and 
were usually reversible, and even if in most cases they occur at the 50 mg dosage and to appear 
early  in  treatment,  hepatic  reactions  were  also  noted  with  25mg  dosing  and  late  after  3  or  6 
months agomelatine treatment. 
The  mechanism  of  agomelatine-related  liver  injury  remained  unknown,  and  there  were  no 
sufficient  data  supporting  different  mechanisms  for  the  hepatic  reactions  with  different 
severities. 
Page 56 of 66 
The  major  concern  was  the  high  frequency  of  elevated  transaminases  associated  with 
agomelatine  treatment  (in  particular  with  the  50mg  dose),  and  how  in  the  clinical  setting  the 
liver-related  adverse  event  can  be  discovered  and  prevented  before  a  more  serious  outcome 
occurs.  Since  agomelatine  is  proposed  for  long-term  use,  and  considering  the  cases  with  late 
occurrence  of  elevated  transaminases,  LFT  monitoring  is  to  be  performed  at  initiation,  then 
periodically  after  around  6  weeks  (end  of  acute  phase),  12  weeks  and  24  weeks  (end  of 
maintenance phase) and thereafter when clinically indicated, for both 25 mg and 50mg dosing, 
until more data become available. The applicant agreed with this proposal and suggested in the 
RMP  to  perform  studies  investigating  the  incidence  and  risk  factors  for  the  liver  injuries. 
Studies investigating the effect of monitoring liver function are also agreed to be performed. 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
During  the  procedure  the  applicant  provided  documents  that  set  out  a  detailed  description  of  the 
system  of  pharmacovigilance.  A  statement  signed  by  the  applicant  and  the  qualified  person  for 
pharmacovigilance, indicating that the applicant has the services of a qualified person responsible for 
pharmacovigilance  and  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse  reaction  occurring 
either  in  the  Community  or  in  a  third  country  was  provided.  The  CHMP  considered  that  the 
Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the  legislative  requirements  and 
provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  applicant  has  the  services  of  a  qualified  person  responsible  for 
pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of any adverse reaction suspected 
of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a Risk Management plan (version 4.0) based on the EMEA RMP-template and in 
line with the requirements in Volume 9A. 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Identified risks 
The only identified risk was elevated liver transaminases. To further explore the potential liver injury 
and  potential  associated  risk  factors,  specific  investigations  will  be  implemented  for  patients  who 
exhibit  abnormal  liver  enzymes  in  further  clinical  trials.  A  retrospective  safety  survey  using  the 
General Practice Research Database and a prospective epidemiologic study will be performed to study 
these  hepatic  events further  in  clinical  practice.  In  addition,  the  Applicant  was requested  to  perform 
studies  on  the  effect  of  liver  function  test  monitoring,  and  such  studies  are  described  in  the  RMP. 
Besides  routine  risk  minimisation  activities,  the  applicant  proposed  to  provide  prescribers  with 
educational  material  and  to  perform  a  prescription  survey  to  study  the  efficiency  of  this  as  an 
additional risk minimisation activity. 
Potential risks 
Skin reactions and suicidality are listed as potential risks and will be further studied in a prospective 
epidemiologic study. Regarding suicidality, the European standard text for antidepressants is stated in 
the  SPC.  The  applicant  will  have  special  focus  on  suicidality  in  young  adults  aged  between  18-30 
years. 
The  applicant  argued  that  agomelatine  has  a  mechanism  of  action  that  is  not  expected  to  cause 
akathisia. In addition, akathisia has not been reported so far. Therefore, it was considered acceptable 
not to list akathisia as a potential risk at this point of time. 
New mechanistic studies provided evidence that the DNA adducts observed in preclinical studies did 
not seem to be of clinical relevance. Thus, it was considered acceptable not to list DNA adducts as a 
potential risk. 
During  the  procedure  a  concern  over  bleeding  event  events  was  noted.  The  applicant  claimed  that 
agomelatine did not have any effect on platelet functions and therefore bleedings was not included as a 
Page 57 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
potential  risk  in  the  RMP.  This  was  considered  acceptable,  however  data  from  post-marketing 
surveillance are to be collected and possible signals are to be analysed in PSURs regarding bleeding 
events. 
Missing or limited information 
No data were available regarding efficacy and safety in the paediatric age group. 
The Applicant was asked to perform a post-marketing study on the efficacy and safety of agomelatine 
in patients > 75 years. A post-marketing study in elderly > 65 years with 1/3 of patients aged > 75 will 
be  performed.  Additionally,  the  elderly  population  will  be  studied  in  a  prospective  epidemiological 
study.  Increased  mortality  relative  to  placebo  was  observed  in  a  study  in  Alzheimer  patients.  This 
could  be  due  to  an  imbalance  in  risk  factors  for  death  between  agomelatine  and  placebo  groups  at 
baseline. A precaution against use of agomelatine in elderly patients with dementia has been included 
in the SPC (Section 4.4). The Applicant was requested to specify in the RMP their further plans for 
following up safety in Alzheimer patients. 
More information on renally impaired patients will be provided with the proposed epidemiologic study 
to be performed. In the meantime, the RMP and the SPC have been updated to reflect that only limited 
data exist for patients with severe or moderate renal impairment. Overall, caution should be exercised 
when prescribing the drug to these patients. 
Agomelatine is contraindicated in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Interactions 
It  was  agreed  that  oral  contraceptives  need  not  be  listed  as  an  interacting  agent  in  the  RMP.  In 
addition,  contraindication  of  concomitant  use  of  potent  CYP1A2  inhibitors  (e.g.  fluvoxamine, 
ciprofloxacine) was agreed upon. The SPC and RMP have been updated to reflect this. 
The applicant proposed to provide prescribers with educational material and to perform a prescription 
survey to study the efficiency of this program as a risk minimisation activity. 
The potential for pharmacodynamic reactions is adequately discussed in the RMP. 
Other aspects 
Supratherapeutic  drug  levels  may  be  a  consequence  of  coadministration  with  potent  CYP  1A2 
inhibitors and/or impaired liver function. The applicant was asked to discuss in the RMP how routine 
therapeutic  monitoring  may  address  some  of  these  concerns.  It  was  agreed  that  routine  therapeutic 
monitoring are not feasible for agomelatine because of its short half-time. Consequently, this aspect is 
not discussed in the RMP. 
The Applicant suggested in the RMP to perform studies on the incidence and risk factors for the liver 
injuries.  The  Applicant  was  also  requested  to  perform  studies  on  the  effect  of  monitoring  liver 
function. 
Table 17 - Summary of the EU risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed routine and additional 
risk minimisation activities 
Identified risks 
Page 58 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed routine and additional 
risk minimisation activities 
Elevated transaminases 
-  Submission  of  cumulative  re-estimated  data 
(see on-going studies, § 2.4) on ALAT, ASAT or 
ALP  value  >3  ULN  or  total  bilirubin  >  2  ULN 
from  the  updated  overall  safety  data  base  in  the 
framework of the PSURs. 
-  Liver  adverse  reactions  including  abnormal 
liver  function 
tests  with  documentation  on 
influence  of  potential  concomitant  hepatotoxic 
drugs  from  all  sources  will  be  collected  and 
specifically  reviewed 
the  framework  of 
in 
PSURs.  Specific  questionnaires  will  be  filled  in 
for patients experiencing such events. 
-  Retrospective  safety  survey  using  the  General 
Practice  Research  Database  to  document  the 
incidence  of  hepatobiliary  disorders  in  clinical 
practice, 
other 
comparison 
antidepressants  and  in  non-depressed  patients. 
Submission  of  data  in  the  framework  of  the 
PSURs. 
with 
in 
- Prospective epidemiological study (see Annex 
4) to provide information on agomelatine in 
current medical practice in MDD patients. The 
follow-up of the participating patients will be 
done according to the approved SmPC and the 
physician’s current medical practice. Analysis of 
adverse reactions in the framework of the 
PSURs. 
risk 
factors, 
associated 
- To further explore the potential liver injury and 
potential 
specific 
investigations  will  be  implemented  for  patients 
who  exhibit  abnormal  liver  enzymes  (ALAT, 
ASAT or ALP value > 3 x ULN or total bilirubin 
>  2  ULN)  in  the  further  clinical  trials  with 
of 
agomelatine,  with 
also 
until 
abnormalities 
determination  of  key  variables  in  liver  function 
assessment 
etiological 
investigations.  DNA  should  be  taken  allowing 
for  search  of  the  influence  of  different  genetic 
polymorphisms.  Submission  of  corresponding 
data  with  documentation  on 
influence  of 
potential  concomitant  hepatotoxic  drugs  in  the 
framework of the PSURs. 
close 
resolution, 
appropriate 
follow-up 
and 
and 
[SmPC § 4.2] 
After two weeks of treatment,  if there 
is no improvement of symptoms, the 
dose may be increased to 50 mg once 
daily, i.e. two 25 mg tablets, taken 
together at bedtime. 
In  patients  in  whom  the  dose  is 
increased  to  50  mg  per  day,  liver 
function  tests  should  be  measured  at 
the  time  of  the  dose  increase  and  6 
and 12 weeks later. 
[SmPC § 4.3] 
Agomelatine  is  contra-indicated  in 
patients  with  hepatic  impairment  (i.e. 
cirrhosis or active liver disease).  
Patients will be also informed through 
the Package Leaflet (Section 2 Before 
you take Valdoxan). 
[SmPC § 4.4] 
Increased serum transaminases:  
In clinical studies, elevations of  
serum transaminases (>3 times the 
upper limit of the normal range) have 
been observed in patients with 
Valdoxan/particularly at 50 mg (see 
section 4.8). When Valdoxan was 
discontinued in these patients, the 
serum transaminases usually fell to 
normal levels. When the dose is 
increased to 50 mg, liver function 
tests should be performed at this time 
and at 6 weeks and 12 weeks after the 
dose increase. Any patient who 
develops increased serum 
transaminases should have his/her 
liver function tests repeated within 48 
hours. Therapy should be 
discontinued if the increase in serum 
transaminases exceed 3X upper limit 
of normal and liver function tests 
should be performed regularly until 
serum transaminases return to normal. 
Page 59 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed routine and additional 
risk minimisation activities 
If any patient develops symptoms 
suggesting hepatic dysfunction liver 
function tests should be performed. 
The decision whether to continue the 
patient on therapy with Valdoxan 
should be guided by clinical 
judgement pending laboratory 
evaluations. If jaundice is observed 
therapy should be discontinued. 
Caution should be exercised when 
Valdoxan is administered to patients 
who consume substantial quantities of 
alcohol or who are treated with 
medicinal products associated with 
risk of hepatic injury. 
[SmPC § 4.8] 
Hepato-biliary disorders: 
Increases (>3 times the upper limit of 
the  normal  range)  in  ALAT  and 
ASAT  were  reported  in  0.6%  for 
ALAT  and  in  0.4%  for  ASAT  of 
patients treated with Valdoxan 25 mg. 
For Valdoxan  50 mg the figures were 
1.1% for ALAT and 0.9% for ASAT. 
Educational material to be provided to 
prescribers, with a prescription survey 
to follow this program. 
[SmPC § 4.8] 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders: 
Common : 
hyperhidrosis 
Uncommon : eczema 
Rare : erythematous rash 
[SmPC § 4.4] 
European 
antidepressants. 
standard 
text 
for 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Potential risks 
Skin reactions 
Suicide  
- Safety information on skin reactions whatever 
the source of information (clinical studies, 
spontaneous report…) will be routinely collected 
and specifically reviewed in the framework of 
the PSURs. 
-  Prospective  epidemiological  study  (see  Annex 
4)  to  provide  information  on  agomelatine  in 
current  medical  practice  in  MDD  patients.  The 
follow-up  of  the  participating  patients  will  be 
done  according  to  the  approved  SmPC  and  the 
physician’s current medical practice. Analysis of 
adverse reactions in the framework of the PSURs 
- Safety information on suicides with a specific 
focus on young adults aged between 18-30 years 
whatever the source of information (clinical 
studies, spontaneous report…) will be routinely 
collected and specifically reviewed in the 
framework of the PSURs. 
-  Prospective  epidemiological  study  (see  Annex 
4)  to  provide  information  on  agomelatine  in 
current  medical  practice  in  MDD  patients.  The 
follow-up  of  the  participating  patients  will  be 
done  according  to  the  approved  SmPC  and  the 
physician’s current medical practice. Analysis of 
adverse  reactions  in  the  framework  of  the 
PSURs. 
Missing or limited information 
Page 60 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Paediatric age group  
(< 18 years) 
information 
in  paediatric  age  group 
Safety 
whatever the source of information (spontaneous 
cases,…) will be routinely collected. 
Elderly (> 75 years) 
-  Safety  information  in  the  elderly  (> 75  years) 
whatever  the  source  of  information  (clinical 
studies,  spontaneous  report…)  will  be  routinely 
collected  and  specifically  reviewed 
the 
framework of the PSURs. 
in 
-  Specific  post-marketing  study  in  the  elderly 
> 65  years  with  1/3  of  patients  aged  >  75  years 
(See Annex 5). 
-  Prospective  epidemiological  study  (see  Annex 
4)  to  provide  information  on  agomelatine  in 
current  medical  practice  in  MDD  patients.  The 
follow-up  of  the  participating  patients  will  be 
done  according  to  the  approved  SmPC  and  the 
physician’s current medical practice. Analysis of 
adverse reactions in the framework of the PSURs 
Pregnancy 
No additional pharmacovigilance measures 
planned except routine pharmacovigilance.  
Lactation 
No additional pharmacovigilance measures 
planned except routine pharmacovigilance. 
Proposed routine and additional 
risk minimisation activities 
[SmPC § 4.4] 
Valdoxan  is  not  recommended  in  the 
treatment  of  depression  in  patients 
under 18 years of age since safety and 
efficacy  of  Valdoxan  have  not  been 
established in this age group.  
[SmPC § 4.2] 
Efficacy  has  not  been 
clearly 
demonstrated  in  the  elderly  (≥  65 
years).  Only  limited  clinical  data  is 
available  on  the  use  of  Valdoxan  in 
elderly  patients  ≥ 65  years  old  with 
major depressive episodes. Therefore, 
caution  should  be  exercised  when 
prescribing  Valdoxan 
these 
patients. 
to 
[SmPC § 4.6] 
For  agomelatine,  no  clinical  data  on 
exposed  pregnancies  are  available. 
Animal  studies  do  not  indicate  direct 
indirect  harmful  effects  with 
or 
respect  to  pregnancy,  embryonal  / 
foetal  development,  parturition  or 
postnatal  development  (see  Section 
5.3).  Caution  should  be  exercised 
when prescribing to pregnant women.  
excreted 
[SmPC § 4.6]  
It  is  not  known  whether  agomelatine 
human  milk. 
into 
is 
Agomelatine  or  its  metabolites  are 
excreted  in  the  milk  of  lactating  rats. 
Potential effects of agomelatine on the 
breast-feeding  infant  have  not  been 
treatment  with 
established. 
Valdoxan 
is  considered  necessary, 
breastfeeding should be discontinued. 
If 
Hepatic impairment 
Severe or moderate renal 
impairment 
information 
in  patients  with 
Safety 
liver 
impairment  whatever  the  source  of  information 
(clinical  studies,  spontaneous  report…)  will  be 
routinely  collected  and  specifically  reviewed  in 
the framework of the PSURs. 
-  Safety  information  in  patients  with  severe  or 
moderate  renal  impairment  whatever  the  source 
of  information  (clinical  studies,  spontaneous 
report…)  will  be 
routinely  collected  and 
specifically  reviewed  in  the  framework  of  the 
PSURs. 
-  Prospective  epidemiological  study  (see  Annex 
4)  to  provide  information  on  agomelatine  in 
current  medical  practice  in  MDD  patients.  The 
follow-up  of  the  participating  patients  will  be 
done  according  to  the  approved  SmPC  and  the 
physician’s current medical practice. Analysis of 
adverse reactions in the framework of the PSURs 
Page 61 of 66 
[SmPC § 4.3] 
Agomelatine  is  contra-indicated  in 
patients  with  hepatic  impairment  (i.e. 
cirrhosis or active liver disease). 
[SmPC § 4.2] 
There  is  no  relevant  modification    in 
agomelatine 
pharmacokinetic 
parameters  in  patients  with  severe 
renal 
impairment.  However,  only 
limited  clinical  data  on  the  use  of 
Valdoxan  in  depressed  patients  with 
severe  or  moderate  renal  impairment 
is available. Therefore, caution should 
prescribing 
be 
Valdoxan to these patients. 
exercised  when 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed routine and additional 
risk minimisation activities 
Drug interactions 
Interactions  with 
potent 
CYP  1A2  inhibitors  (e.g. 
fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin) 
Safety information in patients taking agomelatine 
and  potent  CYP1A2  inhibitors  whatever  the 
source 
studies, 
spontaneous report…) will be routinely collected 
and  specifically  reviewed  in  the  framework  of 
the PSURs. 
information 
(clinical 
of 
[SmPC § 4.3] 
Concomitant use of potent CYP1A2 
inhibitors (e.g. fluvoxamine, 
ciprofloxacin). 
Patients will be also informed through 
the Package Leaflet (Section 2 Before 
you take Valdoxan). 
[SmPC § 4.5] 
Co-administration of Valdoxan  with 
potent CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g. 
fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin) is contra-
indicated. 
Educational material to be provided to 
prescribers, with a prescription survey 
to follow this program. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: see as detailed in section 2.3 of this CHMP Assessment Report. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
In  vitro  and  in  vivo,  agomelatine  acts  as  a  melatonin  agonist  and  a  5-HT2C  antagonist,  whereas  its 
metabolites have no pharmacological activity. 
Agomelatine  revealed  antidepressant  activity  in  the  dose  range  10-50mg/kg,  i.p.  or  p.o.,  and 
anxiolytic-like effects at non sedative doses. No tolerance developed following chronic treatment and 
no withdrawal relapse was noted one week after cessation of treatment. 
Agomelatine did not produce any unexpected or toxic effects in the safety pharmacology studies. The 
main  CNS-related  effects  of  agomelatine  were  slight  CNS  depressant  action  evident  as  sedation  in 
both  mice  and  rats  (dose-related,  with  a  rather  low  acute  toxicity  profile  as  LD50  ≥  100  times  the 
human dose). 
The repeated dose toxicity studies indicated that liver is the target organ of toxicity in both rats and 
monkeys,  with  high  safety  margins  in  rats  and  low  in  monkeys.  In  rats  and  monkeys  agomelatine 
caused  hepatic  enzyme  induction  associated  with  enlarged  livers  and/or  hepatocellular  hypertrophy 
with subsequent increased metabolism and reduced drug exposure. 
Agomelatine induced no cardiovascular effects in monkeys (up to 32 mg/kg i.v.). No effect was noted 
on  ECG,  arterial  blood  pressure,  heart  rate,  mean  femoral  and  arterial  blood  flow,  cardiac  output, 
respiration rate, arterial blood gases and pH. Agomelatine had no effect on hERG current, on renal, 
gastro-intestinal and endocrinal functions. 
No  genotoxic  potential  of  agomelatine  was  found  in  vivo.  However  agomelatine  increased  the 
incidences of hepatic adenomas and carcinomas (mice and rats) and mammary fibroadenomas (rats). 
There were gender-related differences in occurrence of hepatic tumours, whereby  males appeared to 
be exposed higher than females. 
Page 62 of 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Agomelatine  had  no  adverse  effect  on  fertility,  or  on  embryonal  or  foetal  development,  and  local 
tolerance studies in the rabbit showed no adverse effect on the skin and the eye. 
No concerns were raised by the environmental risk assessment. However, the environmental fate and 
effects of agomelatine will be investigated in further, and the ERA for agomelatine will be revised and 
updated accordingly to include the new results. 
Efficacy 
Oral  bioavailability  of  agomelatine  was  low  and  increased  non-proportionally  with  the  dose,  in 
addition there was a substantial inter-individual variability; this implies an unpredictable therapeutic 
response. Overall, bioavailability appeared to be dependent on gender (female > male), intake of oral 
contraceptives  (with  oral  oestrogens  >  without  oral  oestrogens),  smoking  habits  (non-smokers  > 
smokers), administration time (a.m. > p.m.) and possibly on age. 
Although  clear-cut,  linear  dose  responses  are  rare  for  CNS  effects,  the  dose-finding  studies  for 
agomelatine  were  far  from  ideal  and  considered  to  be  unsatisfactory.  The  25  mg  dose  was  chosen 
based on a study where 5 mg and 100 mg seemed to be equally effective and where 1 mg also fulfilled 
the  criteria  of  efficacy.  In  the  overall  clinical  program  greater  efficacy  with  a  dose  of  50  mg  in 
comparison to 25 mg was not demonstrated. The applicant has therefore committed to perform a post-
approval dose –response study including a randomised dose adjustment to 50 mg in non-responders to 
25 mg agomelatine. 
Short-term efficacy (at 6 weeks) was demonstrated in three of six short-term pivotal trials (including 
the dose finding one) which were able to discriminate agomelatine from placebo. In the flexible dose 
design  trials  the rate  of  responders in  agomelatine  was  superior to placebo.  Out of  these  three  trials 
only the dose finding trial (CL2-014) included an active comparator arm (paroxetine 20 mg). In this 
trial, the effect of agomelatine and paroxetine was in the same range. Four other trials, including a trial 
in the elderly, failed to discriminate between agomelatine and placebo. One of them demonstrated to 
have  assay  sensitivity  since  fluoxetine,  used  as  a  comparator,  did  discriminate  from  placebo.  This 
suggested that the effect of agomelatine was smaller than fluoxetine 20 mg. Two of the studies failed 
to  demonstrate assay  sensitivity.  In  all  trials  fairly  severe  depressed  patients  were  enrolled,  and  this 
excludes the explanation that the failure was due to a flooring effect. The effect size measured from 
baseline to endpoint was large in both treated and placebo groups. This may point to a large placebo 
effect as one cause of trial failure. All together the data available from the short-term studies showed 
that agomelatine 25 mg is probably less efficacious than other antidepressants. A meta-analysis of the 
six  pivotal  short-term  studies  resulted  in  an  overall  estimate  of  the  difference  between  agomelatine 
(including  sub-therapeutic  doses  1  and  5  mg)  and  placebo  of  1.5  on  the  HAM-D  with  a  95% 
confidence interval [0.80, 2.22]. 
In  a  recently  submitted  short-term  study  comparing  agomelatine  (25-50  mg)  and  sertraline  (50-100 
mg) where the primary objective was to assess the efficacy on the rest-activity cycle, the head-to-head 
comparison (LOCF, FAS) showed a statistically significant superiority of agomelatine over sertraline 
on HAM-D total score (pre-specified efficacy analysis: difference = 1.68, p=0.031). 
Two relapse prevention studies were performed, whereby responders to agomelatine after 8-10 weeks 
of open label treatment were randomised between agomelatine and placebo. The first study failed to 
demonstrate a difference in time to relapse. The second study demonstrated a statistically significant 
difference  in  time  to  relapse  between  agomelatine  and  placebo.  Additional  submitted  data  after 
extension  to  10  months  in  this  study  “seems  to    sustain  and  confirm  the  results  achieved  after  6 
months, as the percentage of patients with relapse over 44 weeks was still more than two-fold lower in 
the  agomelatine  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group.  No  difference  in  efficacy  between  severely 
depressed patients and patients with moderate/mild depression was found. 
Efficacy  in  elderly  patients  was  not  demonstrated.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  perform  a  post-
marketing study of efficacy and safety of agomelatine in patients older than 65 years with a special 
focus  on  patients  aged  75 years  and  above. The  applicant  has adequately  described  the  measures  to 
deal  with  the  difficulties  related  to  recruitment  of  elderly,  depressed  patients,  and  the  design  of  the 
study seems to be acceptable. 
Page 63 of 66 
No tolerance developed following chronic treatment and no withdrawal relapse was noted one week 
after  cessation  of  treatment.  Among  benefits  on  the  safety  side  are  the  lack  of  clinically  relevant 
weight gain, no effect on the cardiovascular system, low risk of sexual dysfunction, low incidence of 
gastro-intestinal reaction, and absence of discontinuation symptoms. 
Safety 
The increased mortality in the agomelatine group relative to the placebo group observed in the study in 
Alzheimer  patients  was  probably  related  to  an  unbalance  of  risk  factors  of  death  between  groups  at 
baseline. A warning against the use of agomelatine in Alzheimer patients is included in the SPC. 
Overall, the safety profile appeared favourable. However, a few important issues were identified. Τhe 
lack  of  safety  data  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  was  re-solved  by  including  appropriate 
information  in  the  SPC  (see  “Hepatic  reactions”  paragraph  below)  and  the  issue  of  interaction  with 
CYP1A2  inhibitors  were  re-solved  by  contraindicating  concomitant  use  with  potent  CYP1A2 
inhibitors (e.g. fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin) in section 4.3 and including corresponding information in 
4.5 of the SPC. 
In addition, with regard to the identified risks of hepatic reactions (see “Hepatic reactions” paragraph 
below),  appropriate  risk  minimisation  steps  have  been  agreed  upon  and  have  been  included  in  the 
RMP. 
Hepatic reactions 
Among patients treated with agomelatine 25/50 mg (N= 4068), the incidence of emergent elevations 
of ALAT and/or ASAT > 3 x ULN in patients with normal transaminases at baseline was originally 
0.8% as compared to 0.3% in the placebo group. Significantly higher incidences were observed in the 
agomelatine 50mg group (1.3%). The higher incidence of transaminases increase with higher dose was 
an important concern. The new data provided (whatever the transaminases values before intake) gave 
incidences of 1.04% on agomelatine 25 mg and 1,39% on agomelatine 50 mg as compared to 0,72% 
on placebo. 
Serious hepatic reactions including hepatitis (cytolytic) and transaminase elevation > 10 x ULN were 
reported. 
Liver function tests (LFT) were performed at baseline and during agomelatine treatment as planned in 
the  clinical  studies.  The  transaminase  elevations  were  usually  detected  in  patients  without  any 
symptoms  and  were  reversible  after  treatment  discontinuation.  However,  one  documented-case  with 
no  recovery  at  follow-up  after  discontinuation  of  agomelatine  was  reported.  It  was  concluded  that 
continued  agomelatine  treatment  following  development  of  transaminase  elevation  may  be  an 
important safety concern, particularly in patients with risk factors for liver injuries. 
The  incidence  of  abnormal  LFT  including  all  transaminase  levels  showed  a  clear  dose-effect 
relationship when 25mg dosing is compared to other doses of agomelatine or placebo. No correlation 
between  the  systemic  exposure  to  agomelatine  and  the  occurrence  of  liver  injuries  was  found, 
suggesting  that  the  hepatic  reactions  may  not  be  predictable  and  may  occur  in  susceptible  patients. 
Although no predictable risk factors could be identified, alcohol consumption, concomitant medication 
or previous liver disorders were seen in some cases. The liver reactions with agomelatine seemed to be 
hepatocellular reactions and were usually reversible, and even if in most cases they occur at the 50 mg 
dosage and to appear early in treatment, hepatic reactions were also noted with 25mg dosing and late 
after 3 or 6 months agomelatine treatment. 
The  mechanism  of  agomelatine-related liver  injury  remained  unknown,  and  there  were  no  sufficient 
data supporting different mechanisms for the hepatic reactions with different severities. 
The  major  concern  was  the  high  frequency  of  elevated  transaminases  associated  with  agomelatine 
treatment (in particular with the 50mg dose), and how in the clinical setting the liver-related adverse 
event  can  be  discovered and  prevented  before  a  more  serious  outcome  occurs. Since agomelatine is 
proposed for long-term use, and considering the cases with late occurrence of elevated transaminases, 
LFT  monitoring  is  to  be  performed  at  initiation  and  then  periodically  after  around  6  weeks  (end  of 
acute  phase),  12  weeks  and  24  weeks  (end  of  maintenance  phase)  and  thereafter  when  clinically 
Page 64 of 66 
 
indicated during the whole treatment period for both 25 mg and 50mg dosing, until more data become 
available.  The  applicant  agreed  with  this  proposal  and  suggested  in  the  RMP  to  perform  studies 
investigating  the  incidence  and  risk  factors  for  the  liver  injuries.  Studies  investigating  the  effect  of 
monitoring liver function are also to be performed. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The user test has been well organised and performed in accordance with the Guidance on user testing. 
Possible weaknesses have been identified and this has resulted in changes to the PL. The aim of the 
user test is to find such weaknesses, and help improving the PL. Most of the answers to the specific 
questions  in  the  Questionnaire  were  found  ‘easily’  or  ‘very  easily’,  something  that  indicates  a  well 
written  and  presented  PL.  The  comments  made  by  the  participants  on  the  open  questions  were  also 
rather positive, and few negative comments were made. 
The Guideline on the Readability states that out of 20 patients, 16 or more (80%) should be able to 
understand and answer each question correctly. In this user test the success criteria are met, and the 
user test has proven that the readability of the PL is acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Agomelatine  is  an  antidepressant  with  a  new  mechanism  of  action  with  a  different  safety  profile 
compared  to  the  SSRI/SNRIs  group  (lack  of  clinically  relevant  weight  gain,  low  risk  of  sexual 
dysfunction,  low  incidence  of  gastro-intestinal  reaction,  absence  of  discontinuation  symptoms  and 
overall incidence rates of adverse events that are not different from placebo). Such a drug, despite an 
effect  that  might  be  lower  than  the  effect  of  SSRIs,  can  be  considered  useful  in  the  antidepressant 
treatment  armamentarium.  In  the  clinical  studies  several  cases  of  abnormal  liver  function  test  and  a 
few  cases  of  hepatitis,  indicating  liver  toxicity,  were  observed.  Although  some  confounding  factors 
existed  in  the  hepatitis  cases  there is  a  non-negligible  risk  of potentially  irreversible liver injuries  if 
agomelatine  is  used  outside  controlled  clinical  trials  (i.e.  in  clinical  practice  in  more  heterogeneous 
patient  groups,  in  patients  with  more  concomitant  medication,  in  patients  with  unidentified  mild 
hepatic  impairment  and  without  liver  function  tests  at  initiation  and  periodically  during  treatment). 
Since these  hepatic reactions  may  not  be  predictable and  in  order  to  detect the liver-related  adverse 
events and to prevent a more serious outcome to occur, monitoring of liver test function of all patients 
at all agomelatine doses is stated as a risk minimisation measure in the SPC. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  magnitude  of  the  short-term  efficacy  was  not  similar  to  the  effect 
generally  shown  for  the  SSRIs.  However,  the  effect  demonstrated  in  the  second  relapse  prevention 
study  was  in  line  with  what  has  been  shown  for  the  SSRIs.  The  CHMP  concluded  that  with  the 
proposed liver monitoring program, and considering the otherwise favourable safety profile compared 
to  other  antidepressants,  the  effect  magnitude  demonstrated  was  sufficient  to  provide  a  clinically 
valuable alternative in the antidepressant treatment armamentarium for some patients. 
The B/R ratio for Valdoxan in the therapeutic indication “treatment of Major Depressive Episodes in 
adults”  is  considered  positive  provided  that  the  applicant  commits  to  perform  a  number  of  post 
authorisation follow-up measures to be reported back to the CHMP within predefined timeframes. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns. The following additional risk minimisation 
activities were required: see as detailed in section 2.3. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by majority 
decision (two divergent positions were based on robustness of efficacy and dose range study) that the 
Page 65 of 66 
risk-benefit  balance  of  Valdoxan  in  the  treatment  of  Major  Depressive  Episodes  in  adults  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Divergent opinions were based on the following considerations: 
Efficacy  has  not  been  consistently  demonstrated  and  the  magnitude  appears  less  than  the  active 
comparators combined with the unquantified safety risk makes the risk/benefit assessment negative for 
first time line use. There is no data available on second line use. Thus licensing this product would not 
provide  an  evidence  based  addition  to  the  currently  available  treatments  for  Major  Depressive 
Episodes. The divergent CHMP members believed that the licensing should not be granted until robust 
efficacy has been demonstrated and the effective dosage range is known. 
Page 66 of 66 
 
