25 September  
EMA/CHMP/717261/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Valdoxan 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: agomelatine 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000915/PSUV/0023 
Period covered by the PSUR:  20 February 2013 – 19 February 2014  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Valdoxan, and further discussions at 
the CHMP, the scientific conclusions are as follows:  
The  CHMP  considers  that  the  benefit  risk  balance  for  the  product  remains  positive.  However, 
hepatotoxicity remains an important safety concern with agomelatine. The severity and incidence of 
hepatic ADRs reported during this PSUR period are of the same magnitude as in the previous PSUR 
period  and  there  seems  to  be  a  considerable  level  of  non-compliance  with  the  recommended  liver 
transaminases monitoring programme in clinical practice despite the measures already in place. This is 
supported by the results of a recent analysis based on the observational cohort study evaluating the 
safety  of  agomelatine  in  medical  practice  (CLE-068),  indicating  that  baseline  monitoring  was 
documented for only 65% of the patients while a baseline value and at least one post baseline value, 
was documented for 55%. Still, there are indications of an improvement in transaminases monitoring 
over time and the effectiveness of the last DHPC (October 2013), in which prescribers were reminded 
of the importance of transaminase monitoring, cannot be fully evaluated in this PSUR.  
The  CHMP  recommends  that  the  product  information  is  amended  to  clarify  the  monitoring 
requirements for the liver function, in particular the necessity for LFTs to be performed before starting 
treatment,  and  that  the  following  additional  risk  minimization  measures  and  pharmacovigilance 
activities should be introduced in an updated version of the RMP to increase the compliance of the 
regime  and  its  monitoring:  1)  Physicians  guide  to  prescribing,  2)  Patient  booklet  with 
recommendations regarding liver adverse reactions, 3) a post-authorisation safety category 3 study to 
evaluate  the  adherence  to  the  monitoring  regime  and  the  compliance  to  relevant  contraindications 
(date for submission of interim/final reports should be December 2016). 
Hepatic  impairment  should  be  considered  deleted  from  the  missing  information  in  the  RMP.  As 
hepatotoxicity is an important identified risk, hepatic impairment is a contraindication for the product, 
and detailed recommendations for monitoring of hepatic function is already included in the SmPC and 
PIL. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Valdoxan, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance agomelatine is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
Valdoxan  
EMA/CHMP/717261/2014  
Page 2/2 
  
 
 
 
 
 
