ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg film-coated tablets 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 17.7 mg quizartinib (as dihydrochloride). 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 26.5 mg quizartinib (as dihydrochloride). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg film-coated tablets 
White, round-shaped film-coated tablets, 8.9 mm in diameter and debossed with ‘DSC 511’ on one 
side. 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Yellow, round-shaped film-coated tablets, 10.2 mm in diameter and debossed with ‘DSC 512’ on one 
side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
VANFLYTA is indicated in combination with standard cytarabine and anthracycline induction and 
standard cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy, followed by VANFLYTA single-agent maintenance 
therapy for adult patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) that is FLT3-ITD 
positive. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with VANFLYTA should be initiated by a physician experienced in the use of anti-cancer 
therapies. 
Before taking VANFLYTA, AML patients must have confirmation of FLT3-ITD positive AML using 
a CE-marked in vitro diagnostic (IVD) medical device with the corresponding intended purpose. If a 
CE-marked IVD is not available, confirmation of FLT3-ITD positive AML should be assessed by an 
alternate validated test. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ECGs should be performed, and electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected prior to initiation of 
treatment (see section 4.4).  
Posology 
VANFLYTA should be administered in combination with standard chemotherapy at a dose of 35.4 mg 
(2 × 17.7 mg) once daily for two weeks in each cycle of induction. For patients who achieve complete 
remission (CR) or complete remission with incomplete haematologic recovery (CRi), VANFLYTA 
should be administered at 35.4 mg once daily for two weeks in each cycle of consolidation 
chemotherapy followed by VANFLYTA single-agent maintenance therapy initiated at 26.5 mg once 
daily. After two weeks the maintenance dose should be increased to 53 mg (2 × 26.5 mg) once daily if 
the QT interval corrected by Fridericia’s formula (QTcF) is ≤ 450 ms (see Table 2 and section 4.4). 
Single-agent maintenance therapy may be continued for up to 36 cycles. 
For additional dosing information see Tables 1 to 3. 
Table 1: Dose regimen 
VANFLYTA 
initiation 
Induction a 
Consolidation b 
Maintenance 
Starting on day 8  
(For 7 + 3 regimen) c 
Starting on day 6 
First day of maintenance 
therapy 
Dose 
35.4 mg once daily 
35.4 mg once daily 
Duration 
(28-day 
cycles) 
Two weeks in each 
cycle 
Two weeks in each 
cycle 
•  Starting dose of 26.5 mg 
once daily for two weeks if 
QTcF is ≤ 450 ms. 
•  After two weeks, if QTcF is 
≤ 450 ms, the dose should be 
increased to 53 mg once 
daily. 
Once daily with no break 
between cycles for up to 
36 cycles. 
a  Patients can receive up to 2 cycles of induction. 
b  Patients can receive up to 4 cycles of consolidation. 
c  For 5 + 2 regimen as the second induction cycle, VANFLYTA will be started on day 6. 
Haematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
For patients who proceed to haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), VANFLYTA should be 
stopped 7 days before the start of a conditioning regimen. It may be resumed after completion of the 
transplant based on white blood cell count (WBC) and at the discretion of the treating physician for 
patients with sufficient haematologic recovery and with ≤ Grade 2 graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), 
not requiring the initiation of new systemic GVHD therapy within 21 days, following the dosing 
recommendations described above. 
Dose modifications 
VANFLYTA should be initiated only if QTcF is ≤ 450 ms (see section 4.4). 
For recommended dose modifications due to adverse reactions, see Table 2. For dose adjustments due 
to adverse reactions and/or concomitant use with strong CYP3A inhibitors, see Table 3. 
Table 2: Recommended dose modifications for adverse reactions 
Adverse reaction 
QTcF 450-480 ms 
(Grade 1) 
QTcF 481-500 ms 
(Grade 2) 
•  Continue VANFLYTA dose. 
Recommended action 
•  Reduce VANFLYTA dose (see Table 3) without interruption. 
•  Resume VANFLYTA at the previous dose in the next cycle if 
QTcF has decreased to < 450 ms. Monitor the patient closely for 
QT prolongation for the first cycle at the increased dose. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QTcF ≥ 501 ms 
(Grade 3) 
Interrupt VANFLYTA. 
• 
•  Resume VANFLYTA at a reduced dose (see Table 3) when QTcF 
Recurrent 
QTcF ≥ 501 ms 
(Grade 3) 
Torsade de pointes; 
polymorphic ventricular 
tachycardia; 
signs/symptoms of life-
threatening arrhythmia 
(Grade 4) 
Grade 3 or 4 non-
haematologic adverse 
reactions  
returns to < 450 ms. 
•  Do not escalate to 53 mg once daily during maintenance if 
QTcF > 500 ms was observed during induction and/or 
consolidation, and it is suspected to be associated with 
VANFLYTA. Maintain the 26.5 mg once daily dose. 
•  Permanently discontinue VANFLYTA if QTcF > 500 ms recurs 
despite appropriate dose reduction and correction/elimination of 
other risk factors (e.g., serum electrolyte abnormalities, 
concomitant QT prolonging medicinal products). 
•  Permanently discontinue VANFLYTA. 
Interrupt VANFLYTA. 
• 
•  Resume treatment at the previous dose if adverse reaction improves 
to ≤ Grade 1. 
•  Resume treatment at a reduced dose (see Table 3) if adverse 
reaction improves to < Grade 3. 
•  Permanently discontinue if Grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction persists 
beyond 28 days and is suspected to be associated with 
VANFLYTA. 
•  Reduce the dose (see Table 3). 
Persistent Grade 4 
neutropenia or 
thrombocytopenia 
without active bone 
marrow disease  
Grades are in accordance with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
version 4.03 (NCI CTCAE v4.03). 
Dose adjustments for adverse reactions and/or concomitant use with strong CYP3A inhibitors 
Table 3: Dose adjustments by phase for adverse reactions and/or concomitant use with strong 
CYP3A inhibitors during treatment with VANFLYTA 
Phase of treatment 
Full dose 
Dose Reductions 
Adverse 
reaction 
Concomitant 
strong 
CYP3A 
inhibitors 
Induction or Consolidation 
Maintenance (first two weeks) 
Maintenance (after two weeks) 
35.4 mg 
26.5 mg 
53 mg 
26.5 mg 
Interrupt 
35.4 mg 
17.7 mg 
17.7 mg 
26.5 mg 
Adverse 
reaction 
and 
concomitant 
strong 
CYP3A 
inhibitors 
Interrupt 
Interrupt 
17.7 mg 
Missed dose or vomiting 
If a dose of VANFLYTA is missed or not taken at the usual time, the patient should take the dose as 
soon as possible on the same day and return to the usual schedule the following day. The patient 
should not take two doses on the same day. 
If the patient vomits after taking VANFLYTA, the patient should not take an additional dose that day 
but take the next dose the following day at the usual time. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in the elderly. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. 
VANFLYTA is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
Class C), as safety and efficacy have not been established in this population. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. 
VANFLYTA is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment 
(CLcr < 30 mL/min, estimated by Cockcroft-Gault), as safety and efficacy have not been established 
in this population. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of VANFLYTA in children and adolescents less than 18 years of age have not 
been established (see section 5.1). No data are available. 
Method of administration 
VANFLYTA is for oral use. 
The tablets should be taken at approximately the same time each day with or without food. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Congenital long QT syndrome (see section 4.4). 
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
QT interval prolongation 
Quizartinib is associated with QT interval prolongation (see section 4.8). QT interval prolongation 
may increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmias or torsade de pointes. Patients with congenital long 
QT syndrome and/or a previous history of torsade de pointes were excluded from the quizartinib 
development programme. VANFLYTA must not be used in patients with congenital long QT 
syndrome. 
VANFLYTA should be used with caution in patients who are at significant risk of developing QT 
interval prolongation. These include patients with uncontrolled or significant cardiovascular disease 
(e.g., history of second-or third-degree heart block (without pacemaker), myocardial infarction within 
6 months, uncontrolled angina pectoris, uncontrolled hypertension, congestive heart failure, history of 
clinically relevant ventricular arrhythmias or torsade de pointes), and patients receiving concomitant 
medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval. Electrolytes should be maintained in the normal 
range (see section 4.2). 
Do not start treatment with VANFLYTA if the QTcF interval is greater than 450 ms. 
During induction and consolidation, ECGs should be performed prior to initiation and then once 
weekly during quizartinib treatment or more frequently as clinically indicated.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During maintenance, ECGs should be performed prior to initiation and then once weekly for the first 
month following dose initiation and escalation, and thereafter as clinically indicated. The maintenance 
starting dose should not be escalated if the QTcF interval is greater than 450 ms (see Table 1).  
Permanently discontinue VANFLYTA in patients who develop QT interval prolongation with signs or 
symptoms of life-threatening arrhythmia (see section 4.2). 
ECG monitoring of the QT interval should be performed more frequently in patients who are at 
significant risk of developing QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes. 
Monitoring and correction of hypokalaemia and hypomagnesaemia should be performed prior to and 
during treatment with VANFLYTA. More frequent monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs should be 
performed in patients who experience diarrhoea or vomiting. 
ECG monitoring with QT interval prolonging medicinal products 
Patients should be monitored more frequently with ECG if co-administration of VANFLYTA with 
medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval is required (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with strong CYP3A inhibitors 
The dose of VANFLYTA should be reduced when used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors 
as they may increase quizartinib exposure (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
Infections in elderly patients  
Fatal infections have occurred more frequently with quizartinib in elderly patients (i.e., older than 
65 years), compared to younger patients especially in the early treatment period. Patients older than 
65 years of age should be closely monitored for the occurrence of severe infections during induction. 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Based on findings in animals, quizartinib may cause embryo-foetal harm when administered to a 
pregnant woman. Women of childbearing potential should undergo pregnancy testing within 7 days 
before starting treatment with VANFLYTA. Women of childbearing potential should use effective 
contraception during treatment with VANFLYTA and for at least 7 months after the last dose. Male 
patients with female partners of childbearing potential should use effective contraception during 
treatment with VANFLYTA and for at least 4 months after the last dose (see section 4.6). 
Patient card 
The prescriber must discuss the risks of VANFLYTA therapy with the patient. The patient will be 
provided with the patient card with each prescription (included in the medicinal product pack). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Quizartinib and its active metabolite AC886 are primarily metabolised by CYP3A in vitro. 
Effect of other medicinal products on VANFLYTA 
Strong CYP3A/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitors 
Co-administration of ketoconazole (200 mg twice daily for 28 days), a strong CYP3A/P-gp inhibitor, 
with a single dose of VANFLYTA increased quizartinib maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and 
area under the curve (AUCinf) by 1.17-fold and 1.94-fold, respectively, and decreased AC886 Cmax and 
AUCinf by 2.5-fold and 1.18-fold, respectively, compared to VANFLYTA alone. At steady state, 
quizartinib exposure (Cmax and AUC0-24h) was estimated to be increased by 1.86-fold and 1.96-fold, 
respectively, and AC886 exposure (Cmax and AUC0-24h) decreased by 1.22-fold and 1.17-fold, 
respectively. Increased quizartinib exposure may increase the risk of toxicity. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dose of VANFLYTA should be reduced as shown in the table below if concomitant use with 
strong CYP3A inhibitors cannot be avoided. For more details regarding dose adjustments, see Table 3 
in section 4.2. 
Full dose 
26.5 mg 
35.4 mg 
53 mg 
Dose reductions for concomitant use 
with strong CYP3A inhibitors 
17.7 mg 
26.5 mg 
Examples of strong CYP3A/P-gp inhibitors include itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, 
clarithromycin, nefazodone, telithromycin and antiretroviral medicinal products (Certain medicines 
used to treat HIV may either increase the risk of side effects (e.g., ritonavir) or reduce the 
effectiveness (e.g., efavirenz or etravirine) of VANFLYTA). 
Moderate CYP3A inhibitors 
Co-administration of fluconazole (200 mg twice daily for 28 days), a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, with 
a single dose of VANFLYTA increased quizartinib and AC886 Cmax by 1.11-fold and 1.02-fold, 
respectively, and AUCinf by 1.20-fold and 1.14-fold, respectively. This change was not considered 
clinically relevant. No dose modification is recommended. 
Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers 
Co-administration of efavirenz (lead-in treatment at 600 mg once daily for 14 days), a moderate 
CYP3A inducer, with a single dose of VANFLYTA decreased quizartinib Cmax and AUCinf by 
approximately 1.18-fold and 9.7-fold, respectively, compared to VANFLYTA alone. The Cmax and 
AUCinf of AC886 decreased by approximately 3.1-fold and 26-fold, respectively (see section 5.2). 
Decreased quizartinib exposure may lead to reduced efficacy. Co-administration of VANFLYTA with 
strong or moderate CYP3A inducers should be avoided. 
Examples of strong CYP3A4 inducers include apalutamide, carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, 
phenytoin, rifampicin and certain herbal medicinal products such as St. John’s Wort (also known as 
Hypericum perforatum). Examples of moderate CYP3A4 inducers include efavirenz, bosentan, 
etravirine, phenobarbital and primidone. 
QT interval prolonging medicinal products 
Co-administration of VANFLYTA with other medicinal products that prolong the QT interval may 
further increase the incidence of QT prolongation. Examples of QT prolonging medicinal products 
include but are not limited to antifungal azoles, ondansetron, granisetron, azithromycin, pentamidine, 
doxycycline, moxifloxacin, atovaquone, prochlorperazine and tacrolimus. Caution should be used 
when co-administering medicinal products that prolong the QT interval with VANFLYTA (see 
section 4.4). 
Gastric acid reducing agents 
Proton pump inhibitor lansoprazole decreased quizartinib Cmax by 1.16-fold and AUCinf by 1.05-fold. 
This decrease in quizartinib absorption was not considered clinically relevant. No dose modification is 
recommended. 
Effect of VANFLYTA on other medicinal products 
P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates 
Co-administration of quizartinib and dabigatran etexilate (a P-gp substrate) increased total and free 
dabigatran Cmax by 1.12-fold and 1.13-fold, respectively, and increased total and free dabigatran 
AUCinf by 1.13-fold and 1.11-fold, respectively (see section 5.2). Quizartinib is a weak P-gp inhibitor, 
and no dose modification is recommended when P-gp substrates are co-administered with 
VANFLYTA. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential should undergo pregnancy testing within 7 days before starting 
treatment with VANFLYTA. 
Quizartinib may cause embryo-foetal harm when administered to pregnant women (see section 5.3); 
therefore, women of childbearing potential should use effective contraception during treatment with 
VANFLYTA and for at least 7 months after the last dose. 
Male patients with female partners of childbearing potential should use effective contraception during 
treatment with VANFLYTA and for at least 4 months after the last dose. 
Pregnancy 
There are no data on the use of quizartinib in pregnant women. Based on findings in animals, 
quizartinib may cause embryo-foetal toxicity when administered to pregnant women (see section 5.3). 
VANFLYTA should not be used during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception, unless the clinical condition of the woman requires treatment. Pregnant women should 
be advised of the potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether quizartinib or its active metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to 
breast-fed children cannot be excluded. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in 
breast-fed children, women must not breast-feed during treatment with VANFLYTA and for at least 
5 weeks after the last dose (see section 4.3). 
Fertility 
There are no human data on the effect of quizartinib on fertility. Based on findings in animals, female 
and male fertility may be impaired during treatment with VANFLYTA (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
VANFLYTA has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions were increased alanine aminotransferase (58.9%), decreased 
platelet count (40.0%), decreased haemoglobin (37.4%), diarrhoea (37.0%), nausea (34.0%), 
abdominal pain (29.4%), headache (27.5%), vomiting (24.5%) and decreased neutrophil count 
(21.9%). 
The most common Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions were decreased platelet count (40%), decreased 
haemoglobin (35.5%), decreased neutrophil count (21.5%), increased alanine aminotransferase 
(12.1%), bacteraemia (7.2%) and fungal infections (5.7%). The most common serious adverse 
reactions in the VANFLYTA arm were neutropenia (3.0%), fungal infections (2.3%) and herpes 
infections (2.3%). Adverse reactions with fatal outcome were fungal infections (0.8%) and cardiac 
arrest (0.4%). 
The most common adverse reactions associated with dose interruption of VANFLYTA were 
neutropenia (10.6%), thrombocytopenia (4.5%) and prolonged electrocardiogram QT interval (2.6%). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common adverse reactions associated with dose reduction were neutropenia (9.1%), 
thrombocytopenia (4.5%) and prolonged electrocardiogram QT interval (3.8%). 
The most common adverse reaction associated with permanent discontinuation of VANFLYTA was 
thrombocytopenia (1.1%).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The safety of VANFLYTA was investigated in QuANTUM-First, a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study in adult patients with newly diagnosed FLT3-ITD positive AML. 
Adverse reactions are listed according to MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Within each SOC, the 
adverse reactions are ranked by frequency with the most frequent reactions first, using the following 
convention: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), 
rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000), not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). Within each frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 4: Adverse reactions 
Adverse reaction 
All grades 
% 
Grade 3 or 4 
% 
Frequency 
category 
(All grades) 
4.9 
17.4 
27.5 
Very common 
1.9 
5.7 
3.0 
7.2 
40.0 
35.5 
21.5 
2.3 
40.0 
37.4 
21.9 
2.6 
18.1 
15.1 
14.0 
11.3 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Infections and infestations 
Upper respiratory tract infectionsa 
Fungal infectionsb 
Herpes infectionsc 
Bacteraemiad 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Thrombocytopeniae 
Anaemiae 
Neutropeniae 
Pancytopenia 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Decreased appetite 
Nervous system disorders 
Headachef 
Cardiac disorders 
Cardiac arrestg 
0.8 
Ventricular fibrillationg 
0.4 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Epistaxis 
15.1 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhoeah 
Nausea 
Abdominal paini 
Vomiting 
Dyspepsia 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
ALT increasede 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Oedemaj 
Investigations 
Prolonged electrocardiogram QTk 
Standard chemotherapy = cytarabine (cytosine arabinoside) and anthracycline (daunorubicin or idarubicin). 
a Upper respiratory tract infections include upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, rhinitis, 
tonsillitis, laryngopharyngitis, pharyngitis bacterial, pharyngotonsillitis, viral pharyngitis and acute sinusitis. 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
37.0 
34.0 
29.4 
24.5 
11.3 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
3.8 
1.5 
2.3 
0 
0.4 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
0.4 
0.4 
12.1 
58.9 
18.9 
14.0 
1.1 
0.4 
3.0 
0 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
b Fungal infections include oral candidiasis, bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, fungal infection, vulvovaginal 
candidiasis, aspergillus infection, lower respiratory tract infection fungal, oral fungal infection, candida 
infection, fungal skin infection, mucormycosis, oropharyngeal candidiasis, aspergillosis oral, hepatic infection 
fungal, hepatosplenic candidiasis, onychomycosis, fungemia, systemic candida and systemic mycosis. 
c Herpes infections include oral herpes, herpes zoster, herpes virus infections, herpes simplex, human herpesvirus 
6 infection, genital herpes and herpes dermatitis. 
d Bacteraemia includes bacteraemia, Klebsiella bacteraemia, Staphylococcal bacteraemia, Enterococcal 
bacteraemia, Streptococcal bacteraemia, device-related bacteraemia, Escherichia bacteraemia, 
Corynebacterium bacteraemia and Pseudomonal bacteraemia. 
e Terms based on laboratory data. 
f Headache includes headache, tension headache and migraine. 
g One subject experienced two events (ventricular fibrillation and cardiac arrest). 
h Diarrhoea includes diarrhoea and diarrhoea haemorrhagic. 
i Abdominal pain includes abdominal pain, abdominal pain upper, abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain lower 
and gastrointestinal pain. 
j Oedema includes oedema peripheral, face oedema, oedema, fluid overload, generalised oedema, peripheral 
swelling, localised oedema and face swelling. 
k Electrocardiogram QT prolonged includes electrocardiogram QT prolonged and electrocardiogram QT interval 
abnormal. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Cardiac disorders 
Quizartinib prolongs the QT interval on ECG. Any grade QT interval prolongation treatment-emergent 
adverse reactions were reported in 14.0% of VANFLYTA-treated patients and 3.0% of patients 
experienced reactions of Grade 3 or higher severity. QT prolongation was associated with dose 
reduction in 10 (3.8%) patients, dose interruption in 7 (2.6%) patients, and discontinuation in 2 (0.8%) 
patients. QTcF > 500 ms occurred in 2.3% of patients based on central review of ECG data. Two 
(0.8%) patients treated with VANFLYTA experienced cardiac arrest with recorded ventricular 
fibrillation, one with a fatal outcome, both in the setting of severe hypokalaemia. Electrocardiograms, 
monitoring and correction of hypokalaemia and hypomagnesemia should be performed prior to and 
during treatment with VANFLYTA. For dose modification for patients with QT interval prolongation, 
see section 4.2. 
Other special populations 
Elderly 
Fatal infections have occurred more frequently with quizartinib in elderly patients (i.e., older than 
65 years), compared to younger patients (13% vs. 5.7%), especially in the early treatment period. 
Patients older than 65 years of age should be closely monitored for the occurrence of severe infections 
during induction. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no known antidote for overdoses of VANFLYTA. For a substantial overdose, supportive 
measures should be provided as necessary, with interruption of treatment, evaluation of haematology 
and ECG monitoring as well as attention to serum electrolytes and concomitant medicinal products 
that may predispose patients to QT interval prolongation and/or torsade de pointes. Patients should be 
managed with symptomatic and supportive care (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, protein kinase inhibitors, ATC code: L01EX11 
Mechanism of action 
Quizartinib is an inhibitor of the receptor tyrosine kinase FLT3. Quizartinib and its major metabolite 
AC886 competitively bind to the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) binding pocket of FLT3 with high 
affinity. Quizartinib and AC886 inhibit FLT3 kinase activity, preventing autophosphorylation of the 
receptor, thereby inhibiting further downstream FLT3 receptor signalling and blocking FLT3-ITD-
dependent cell proliferation. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
The exposure-response analysis of QuANTUM-First predicted a concentration-dependent QTcF 
interval prolongation of 24.1 ms [upper bound of two-sided 90% confidence interval (CI): 26.6 ms] at 
the steady-state Cmax of quizartinib (53 mg) during maintenance therapy. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy and safety of quizartinib vs. placebo was investigated in a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, phase III study, QuANTUM-First. The study enrolled 539 adult patients between 
18 and 75 years of age (25% were 65 years or older), who were newly diagnosed with FLT3-ITD 
positive AML, as determined prospectively by a clinical study assay. Patients were randomised (1:1) 
to receive VANFLYTA 35.4 mg once daily (n = 268) or placebo (n = 271) for two weeks in each 
cycle in combination with standard chemotherapy (induction followed by consolidation for responding 
patients) followed by single-agent maintenance therapy with VANFLYTA (26.5 mg once daily for 
two weeks and 53 mg once daily thereafter) or placebo for up to 36 cycles (28 days/cycle). 
Patients received up to 2 cycles of induction chemotherapy with either daunorubicin on days 1, 2 and 3 
or idarubicin on days 1, 2 and 3 and cytarabine for 7 days, followed by post remission therapy which 
consisted of up to 4 cycles of consolidation chemotherapy and/or HSCT. Consolidation chemotherapy 
consisted of cytarabine on days 1, 3 and 5. Patients who proceeded to HSCT stopped receiving study 
treatment 7 days before the start of a conditioning regimen. Please refer to the Summary of Product 
Characteristics for daunorubicin, idarubicin and cytarabine dosing recommendations. 
The two randomised treatment groups were well balanced with respect to baseline demographics, 
disease characteristics and stratification factors. Of the 539 patients, the median age was 56 years 
(range 20-75 years), 26.1% of patients in the quizartinib arm and 24% of patients in the placebo arm 
were 65 years or older; 54.5% were female and 45.5% were male; 59.7% were White, 29.3% were 
Asian, 1.3% were Black or African American, and 9.7% were other races. Eighty-four percent of 
patients had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) baseline performance status of 0 or 1. 
The majority of the patients (72.4%) had intermediate cytogenetics risk status at baseline. FLT3-ITD 
variant allele frequency (VAF) was 3-25% in 35.6% of patients, greater than 25-50% in 52.1% of 
patients and greater than 50% in 12.1% of patients. 
The primary efficacy measure was overall survival (OS) defined as the time from randomisation until 
death from any cause. 
The study demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in OS for the quizartinib arm (see 
Table 5 and Figure 1). The median follow-up time of the study was 39.2 months. 
A difference was observed between the quizartinib arm vs. the placebo arm in the estimates of survival 
rates (95% CI) at the landmark timepoints of 12, 24, 36 and 48 months (see Table 5). 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The complete remission (CR) rate [95% CI] for quizartinib was 54.9% (147/268) [48.7, 60.9] vs. 
55.4% (150/271) [49.2, 61.4] for placebo. 
Table 5: Efficacy results from QuANTUM-First (intent-to-treat population) 
OS (months) 
Median (95% CI )a 
HRb relative to placebo (95% CI) 
p-value (two-sided stratified log-rank test) 
OS rate (%) (95% CI)a 
12 months 
24 months 
36 months 
48 months 
Quizartinib 
N = 268 
Placebo 
N = 271 
31.9 (21.0, NE) 
15.1 (13.2, 26.2) 
0.776 (0.615, 0.979) 
0.0324 
67.4 (61.3, 72.7) 
54.7 (48.4, 60.5) 
49.9 (43.7, 55.9) 
48.4 (41.9, 54.5) 
57.7 (51.6, 63.4) 
44.7 (38.7, 50.6) 
41.1 (35.0, 47.0) 
37.0 (29.8, 44.2) 
CI = confidence interval; NE = not estimable 
a Kaplan-Meier estimate 
b Hazard ratio (HR) was based on stratified Cox regression model. 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curves for overall survival in QuANTUM-First 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
VANFLYTA in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of acute myeloid 
leukaemia (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of quizartinib and its active metabolite AC886, were evaluated in healthy adult 
subjects (single dose) and in patients with newly diagnosed AML (steady state). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
The absolute bioavailability of quizartinib from the tablet formulation was 71%. After oral 
administration under fasted conditions in healthy subjects, time to peak concentration (median tmax) of 
quizartinib and AC886 measured post dose was approximately 4 hours (range 2 to 8 hours) and 
5 to 6 hours (range 4 to 120 hours), respectively. 
The administration of quizartinib with food, in healthy subjects, decreased quizartinib Cmax by 1.09-
fold, increased AUCinf by 1.08-fold and tmax was delayed by two hours. These changes in exposure are 
not considered clinically relevant. VANFLYTA can be administered with or without food. 
Based on population pharmacokinetic modelling in newly diagnosed AML patients, at 35.4 mg/day, 
steady state during induction therapy, the geometric mean (%CV) Cmax of quizartinib and AC886 was 
estimated to be 140 ng/mL (71%) and 163 ng/mL (52%), respectively, and the geometric mean (%CV) 
AUC0-24h was 2 680 ng•h/mL (85%) and 3 590 ng•h/mL (51%), respectively.  
During consolidation therapy at 35.4 mg/day, steady state, the geometric mean (%CV) Cmax of 
quizartinib and AC886 was estimated to be 204 ng/mL (64%) and 172 ng/mL (47%), respectively, and 
the geometric mean (%CV) AUC0-24h was 3 930 ng•h/mL (78%) and 3 800 ng•h/mL (46%), 
respectively. 
During maintenance therapy at 53 mg/day, steady state, the geometric mean (%CV) Cmax of quizartinib 
and AC886 was estimated to be 529 ng/mL (60%) and 262 ng/mL (48%), respectively, and the 
geometric mean (%CV) AUC0-24h was 10 200 ng•h/mL (75%) and 5 790 ng•h/mL (46%), respectively. 
Distribution 
In vitro binding of quizartinib and AC886 to human plasma proteins is greater than or equal to 99%. 
The blood-to-plasma ratio of quizartinib and AC886 are concentration dependent, indicating saturation 
of the distribution to erythrocytes. At clinically relevant plasma concentrations, the blood-to-plasma 
ratio is approximately 1.3 for quizartinib and approximately 2.8 for AC886. Blood-to-plasma ratio of 
AC886 is also dependent on haematocrit, with a trend of increasing at higher haematocrit levels. 
The geometric mean (%CV) volume of distribution of quizartinib in healthy subjects was estimated to 
be 275 L (17%). 
Biotransformation 
Quizartinib is primarily metabolised by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 in vitro via oxidative pathways which 
produces the active metabolite AC886, which is then further metabolised by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. 
The steady-state AC886-to-quizartinib AUC0-24h ratio during maintenance therapy was 0.57. 
Elimination 
The mean (SD) effective half-lives (t1/2) for quizartinib and AC886 are 81 hours (73) and 136 hours 
(113), respectively, in patients with newly diagnosed AML. The mean (SD) accumulation ratios 
(AUC0-24h) for quizartinib and AC886 were 5.4 (4.4) and 8.7 (6.8), respectively.  
Quizartinib and its metabolites are primarily eliminated by the hepatobiliary route with excretion 
mainly via faeces (76.3% of the orally administered radioactive dose). Unchanged quizartinib 
represented approximately 4% of the orally administered radioactive dose in faeces. Renal excretion is 
a minor route of elimination of the administered radioactive dose (< 2%). 
The geometric mean (%CV) total body clearance (CL) of quizartinib in healthy subjects was estimated 
to be 2.23 L/hour (29%). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Quizartinib and AC886 showed linear kinetics in the dose range of 26.5 mg to 79.5 mg in healthy 
subjects and 17.7 mg to 53 mg in AML patients. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationships 
Age (18 to 91 years), race, sex, body weight, or renal impairment (CLcr 30 to 89 mL/min, estimated 
by Cockcroft-Gault) did not have a clinically relevant effect on quizartinib and AC886 exposure based 
on a population pharmacokinetic analysis. 
Interaction studies with other medicinal products 
Transporters 
In vitro studies showed that quizartinib is a substrate for P-gp but not for BCRP, OATP1B1, 
OATP1B3, OCT1, OAT2, MATE1 or MRP2. AC886 is a substrate for BCRP but not for OATP1B1, 
OATP1B3, MATE1 or MRP2. However, the single-dose administration of quizartinib with 
ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor for both CYP3A and P-gp, increased quizartinib Cmax by 
approximately 1.17-fold, suggesting that the effect of P-gp is minimal. As dose adjustment is required 
for concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitors, many of which also inhibit P-gp, no specific dose 
adjustment is required for P-gp inhibitors. 
Uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferases (UGT)1A1 substrates 
Quizartinib inhibits UGT1A1 with an estimated in vitro Ki of 0.78 μM. Based on a physiologically 
based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) analysis, quizartinib was predicted to increase the Cmax and AUCinf of 
raltegravir (a UGT1A1 substrate) by 1.03-fold which was not considered clinically relevant. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
In a single-dose (26.5 mg) phase 1 study, the pharmacokinetics of quizartinib and AC886 were 
assessed in subjects with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh Class B ) and compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. The 
exposure (Cmax and AUCinf) of quizartinib and AC886 were similar (≤ 30% difference) across all 
groups. Protein binding of quizartinib and AC886 is not affected by impaired hepatic function. 
Therefore, hepatic impairment did not have a clinically relevant effect on quizartinib and AC886 
exposure. 
No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) were not included in the clinical 
studies; therefore, VANFLYTA is not recommended for use in these patients. 
Renal impairment 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis in AML patients with mild to moderate renal impairment 
(CLcr 30 to 89 mL/min) showed that renal function did not affect quizartinib and AC886 clearance. 
Therefore, mild and moderate renal impairment did not have a clinically relevant effect on quizartinib 
and AC886 exposure. No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with mild or moderate renal 
impairment. 
Patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 mL/min) were not included in the clinical studies; 
therefore, VANFLYTA is not recommended for use in these patients. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In genotoxicity studies, quizartinib was mutagenic in a bacterial reverse mutation assay, but not in a 
mammalian cell mutation assay (mouse lymphoma thymidine kinase) or in an in vivo transgenic rodent 
mutation assay. Quizartinib was not clastogenic and did not induce polyploidy in a chromosome 
aberration assay and was not clastogenic or aneugenic in a single-dose rat bone marrow micronucleus 
assay. An in vivo bone marrow micronucleus assay in rats was equivocal after 28 days repeated 
dosing. After a single higher dose, the result was negative. 
Fertility studies in animals have not been conducted with quizartinib. However, adverse findings in 
male and female reproductive systems were observed in repeat dose toxicity studies in rats and 
monkeys. In female rats, ovarian cysts and vaginal mucosal modifications were observed at doses 
approximately 10 times the recommended human dose (RHD) based on AUC. Findings in female 
monkeys included atrophy of the uterus, ovary and vagina; observed at doses approximately 0.3 times 
the RHD based on AUC. The corresponding no observed adverse effect levels (NOAELs) for these 
changes were 1.5 times and 0.1 times the RHD, respectively, based on AUC. In male rats, testicular 
seminiferous tubular degeneration and failure of sperm release were observed at approximately 
8 times the RHD based on AUC. Findings in male monkeys included germ cell depletion in the testes; 
observed at approximately 0.5 times the RHD based on AUC. The corresponding NOAELs for these 
changes were 1.4 times and 0.1 times the RHD, respectively, based on AUC. After a four-week 
recovery period, all these findings except the vaginal mucosal modifications in the female rats were 
reversible. 
In embryo-foetal toxicity studies, embryo-foetal lethality and increased post-implantation loss were 
observed at maternally toxic doses. Foetotoxicity (lower foetal weights, effects on skeletal 
ossification) and teratogenicity (foetal abnormalities including oedema) were observed at doses 
approximately 3 times the RHD based on AUC. The NOAEL was 0.5 times the RHD based on AUC. 
Quizartinib is considered to be potentially teratogenic. 
Animal toxicology studies 
In repeat dose toxicity studies, haematopoietic and lymphoid organ toxicity were observed including 
decreased peripheral blood cells and bone marrow hypocellularity; liver toxicity including elevated 
aminotransferases, hepatocellular necrosis and birefringent crystal deposition (dogs); and kidney 
toxicity including tubular basophilia and birefringent crystal deposition (male rats). These changes 
were noted at approximately 0.4 times, 0.4 times and 9 times the RHD based on AUC, respectively. 
The corresponding NOAELs were approximately 0.1 times, 0.1 times and 1.5 times the RHD based on 
AUC, respectively. 
In vitro and animal safety pharmacology studies 
In cardiovascular safety pharmacology studies conducted in cynomolgus monkeys, quizartinib resulted 
in QT prolongation at doses approximately 2 times the RHD of 53 mg/day based on Cmax. The 
NOAEL was approximately 0.4 times the RHD based on Cmax. Quizartinib primarily inhibited IKs with 
a maximum inhibition of 67.5% at 2.9 µM. The maximum inhibition of IKs by AC886 was 26.9% at 
2.9 µM. Quizartinib and AC886 at 3 μM statistically significantly inhibited hERG currents by 16.4% 
and 12.0%, respectively. Neither quizartinib nor AC886 inhibited INa, INa-L and ICa-L at any 
concentration tested. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Hydroxypropylbetadex 
Cellulose, microcrystalline (E460) 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coating 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Talc (E553b) 
Triacetin (E1518) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Hydroxypropylbetadex 
Cellulose, microcrystalline (E460) 
Magnesium stearate  
Film-coating 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Talc (E553b) 
Triacetin (E1518) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Aluminium/aluminium perforated unit dose blisters. 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg film-coated tablets 
Cartons containing 14 x 1 or 28 x 1 film-coated tablets. 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Cartons containing 14 x 1, 28 x 1 or 56 x 1 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Zielstattstrasse 48 
81379 Munich 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS  
EU/1/23/1768/001-005 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Luitpoldstrasse 1 
85276 Pfaffenhofen 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to the launch of VANFLYTA in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder 
(MAH) must agree on the content and format of the educational programme, including communication 
media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority. 
The educational programme is aimed at reinforcing the prescriber’s and patient/caregiver’s awareness 
about the risk of serious ADRs related to QTc interval prolongation, and the actions to be taken to 
minimise the occurrence of the risk in patients receiving VANFLYTA. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where VANFLYTA is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/caregivers who are expected to prescribe, dispense, and use VANFLYTA 
have access to/are provided with the following educational package: 
•  Physician educational material 
•  Patient information pack 
Physician educational material: 
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Guide for healthcare professionals 
The Guide for healthcare professionals will contain the following key elements: 
o   Description of serious ADRs related to QTc interval prolongation that have occurred with 
quizartinib 
o  Detailed description of the recommended VANFLYTA dosing regimen: starting dose and 
dose escalation criteria 
o  Detailed description of VANFLYTA dose interruption, dose reduction, and treatment 
discontinuation based on QTc interval duration 
o  VANFLYTA dose modification for concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitors use 
o  Management of other co-medications that are known to cause QT prolongation 
o  Frequency of ECG monitoring 
o  Serum electrolyte monitoring and management 
The patient information pack: 
•  Package leaflet 
•  Patient card 
The Patient card will contain the following key elements: 
o  A warning message for healthcare professionals that VANFLYTA treatment may 
increase the risk of serious ADRs related to QTc interval prolongation 
o  Important information for healthcare professionals not involved in the regular care of the 
patient about patient management related to QTc prolongation 
o  Important information for patients/caregivers about signs or symptoms of serious ADRs 
related to QTc interval prolongation and when to seek attention from a healthcare 
professional 
o  Contact details of the VANFLYTA prescriber 
20 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg film-coated tablets 
quizartinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 17.7 mg quizartinib (as dihydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
14 x 1 film-coated tablets 
28 x 1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
81366 Munich, Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1768/001 14 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/23/1768/002 28 x 1 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
vanflyta 17.7 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg tablets 
quizartinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Daiichi-Sankyo (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg film-coated tablets 
quizartinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 26.5 mg quizartinib (as dihydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
14 x 1 film-coated tablets 
28 x 1 film-coated tablets 
56 x 1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
81366 Munich, Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1768/003 14 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/23/1768/004 28 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/23/1768/005 56 x 1 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
vanflyta 26.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg tablets 
quizartinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Daiichi-Sankyo (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PATIENT CARD 
PATIENT CARD 
VANFLYTA 
quizartinib 
• 
• 
• 
Please keep this card with you at all times. 
This card contains important safety information that you should know before you take 
VANFLYTA and during treatment with VANFLYTA. 
Show this card to any doctor, pharmacist or surgeon before any medical intervention or 
treatment. 
Patient information 
Patient name: 
Date of birth: 
In case of emergency, please contact: 
Name: 
Phone number: 
Treatment information 
(To be completed by physician or patient) 
VANFLYTA has been prescribed at a once-daily dose of:        mg 
Started on:        /(mm/yy) 
Prescriber information 
(To be completed by physician or patient) 
For more information or in case of emergency, please contact: 
Physician’s name: 
Phone number: 
Important information for the patient 
VANFLYTA can cause an abnormal electrical activity in your heart called ‘prolonged QT interval’ 
which may lead to a life-threatening disturbances of the heart rhythm. Therefore, a regular check of 
the electrical activity in your heart with an electrocardiogram (ECG) is very important. 
Contact your doctor immediately if: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You are feeling dizzy, lightheaded or faint. 
You sense a change in heart rhythm, e.g., palpitations or an abnormality of your pulse. You may 
feel your heart is beating too fast, but you may also sense a more nonspecific or vague change. 
You have fainted or have been unconscious, even if it was only for a very short period of time, 
e.g., seconds. 
You suffer from diarrhoea or vomiting, or are unable to eat or drink fluids in sufficient amounts. 
You feel any other sudden change in your well-being. 
Your medicines are changed by a physician other than the prescribing physician for 
VANFLYTA. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consult your doctor first before taking VANFLYTA with any other medicines, including medicines 
obtained without a prescription or supplementary products as these may increase the risk of you 
developing QT interval prolongation. 
For more information, please read the package leaflet. 
Important information for healthcare professionals 
VANFLYTA is associated with QT interval prolongation, which may increase the risk of ventricular 
arrhythmias or torsade de pointes. 
• 
Interrupt VANFLYTA if QTcF is ≥501 ms and permanently discontinue if associated with 
torsade de pointes, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia or signs/symptoms of life-threatening 
arrhythmia. VANFLYTA is contraindicated in patients with congenital long QT syndrome. 
During VANFLYTA treatment, check serum electrolytes and correct any hypokalaemia and 
hypomagnesaemia as needed. 
Avoid non-essential medicines that prolong the QT interval. If unavoidable, monitor ECG 
frequently. 
The dose of VANFLYTA should be reduced when used concomitantly with strong CYP3A 
inhibitors. 
• 
• 
• 
For more information, please see the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC). 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See the Patient Information Leaflet for how to report side effects. 
Daiichi-Sankyo (logo) 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg film-coated tablets 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg film-coated tablets 
quizartinib 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What VANFLYTA is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take VANFLYTA 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take VANFLYTA 
Possible side effects  
How to store VANFLYTA 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What VANFLYTA is and what it is used for 
What VANFLYTA is 
VANFLYTA contains the active substance quizartinib. It is a type of cancer medicine called a ‘protein 
kinase inhibitor’. The medicine is used along with chemotherapy to treat adults who have acute 
myeloid leukaemia (AML, a type of blood cancer), with a mutation (change) in the FLT3 gene called 
‘FLT3-ITD’. VANFLYTA treatment may be continued also after a bone marrow transplant when 
patients have sufficiently recovered. 
Your doctor will test your cancer cells for changes in the FLT3 gene to look for FLT3-ITD mutations 
beforehand to make sure that VANFLYTA is right for you. 
How VANFLYTA works 
In AML, the body makes a large amount of abnormal white blood cells that do not mature to become 
healthy cells. VANFLYTA works by blocking the action of proteins called ‘tyrosine kinases’ in these 
abnormal cells. This slows down or stops the abnormal cells from dividing and growing 
uncontrollably, and helps immature cells grow into normal cells. 
2.  What you need to know before you take VANFLYTA 
Do not take VANFLYTA 
• 
if you are allergic to quizartinib or any of the other ingredients in this medicine (listed in 
section 6). If you think you may be allergic, ask your doctor for advice. 
if you were born with a heart problem called ‘long QT syndrome’ (abnormal electrical activity 
of the heart that affects its rhythm). 
if you are breast-feeding (see ‘Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility’). 
• 
• 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking VANFLYTA: 
• 
if you have or have had any heart problems including arrhythmia (abnormal heart rhythm), 
myocardial infarction (heart attack) within 6 months, congestive heart failure (heart isn’t 
pumping hard enough), uncontrolled angina pectoris (chest pain) or uncontrolled hypertension 
(blood pressure that’s too high). 
if you have been told you have low blood levels of potassium or magnesium. 
if you are taking medicines that can prolong the QT interval (irregular heart rhythm; see ‘Other 
medicines and VANFLYTA’). 
if you are taking strong CYP3A inhibitors (see ‘Other medicines and VANFLYTA’). 
if you have or have had fever, cough, chest pain, shortness of breath, tiredness or pain when 
urinating. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Monitoring during treatment with VANFLYTA 
Blood tests 
Your doctor will perform regular blood tests during treatment with VANFLYTA to check your blood 
cells (white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets) and electrolytes (salts such as sodium, 
potassium, magnesium, calcium, chloride and bicarbonate in blood). Your doctor will check your 
electrolytes more often if you are experiencing diarrhoea or vomiting. 
Electrocardiogram 
Before and during your treatment, your doctor will check your heart with an electrocardiogram (ECG) 
to make sure your heart is beating normally. ECGs will be done weekly initially and less often 
thereafter as decided by your doctor. Your doctor will check your heart more often if you are taking 
other medicines that prolong the QT interval (see ‘Other medicines and VANFLYTA’). 
Infections in patients older than 65 years 
Elderly patients are at increased risk for very serious infections when compared to younger patients, 
especially in the early treatment period. If you are older than 65 years of age you will be closely 
monitored for the occurrence of severe infections during induction. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children or adolescents below 18 years of age because there is not enough 
information about its use in this age group. 
Other medicines and VANFLYTA  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription, vitamins, antacids (medicines for 
heartburn and stomach acidity) and herbal supplements. This is because some medicines can affect 
how VANFLYTA works. 
In particular, the following medicines may increase the risk of side effects with VANFLYTA by 
increasing the levels of this medicine in the blood: 
• 
certain medicines used to treat fungal infections – such as itraconazole, posaconazole or 
voriconazole; 
certain antibiotics – such as clarithromycin or telithromycin; 
nefazodone, a medicine used to treat major depression. 
• 
• 
The following medicines may reduce the effectiveness of VANFLYTA: 
• 
certain medicines used to treat tuberculosis – such as rifampicin; 
• 
certain medicines used to treat seizures or epilepsy – such as carbamazepine, primidone, 
phenobarbital or phenytoin; 
certain medicines to treat prostatic cancer – such as apalutamide and enzalutamide; 
mitotane – a medicine used for the treatment of symptoms of tumours of the adrenal glands; 
• 
• 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
bosentan – a medicine used to treat high blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary arterial 
hypertension); 
St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum) – an herbal product used for anxiety and mild 
depression. 
Certain medicines use to treat HIV may either increase the risk of side effects (e.g., ritonavir) or 
reduce the effectiveness (e.g., efavirenz or etravirine) of VANFLYTA. 
QT interval prolonging medicinal products 
Co-administration of VANFLYTA with other medicinal products that prolong the QT interval may 
further increase the risk of QT prolongation. Examples of QT prolonging medicinal products include 
but are not limited to antifungal azoles, ondansetron, granisetron, azithromycin, pentamidine, 
doxycycline, moxifloxacin, atovaquone, prochlorperazine and tacrolimus.  
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Pregnancy 
You should not take VANFLYTA during pregnancy. This is because it may harm your unborn baby. 
Women who are able to become pregnant should have a pregnancy test within 7 days before taking 
this medicine. 
Women should use effective contraception during treatment with VANFLYTA and for at least 
7 months after stopping treatment. Men should use effective contraception during treatment with 
VANFLYTA and for at least 4 months after stopping treatment. 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse for advice before taking this medicine. 
Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed during treatment with VANFLYTA, and for at least 5 weeks after stopping 
treatment. This is because it is not known if VANFLYTA passes into your breast milk (see ‘Do not 
take VANFLYTA’). 
If you are breast-feeding, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse for advice before taking this medicine. 
Fertility 
VANFLYTA may reduce fertility in women and men. You should discuss this with your doctor before 
starting treatment. 
Driving and using machines 
VANFLYTA is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
3. 
How to take VANFLYTA 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How much VANFLYTA to take 
Your doctor or pharmacist will tell you exactly how much VANFLYTA to take. Do not change your 
dose or stop taking VANFLYTA without talking to your doctor first. 
Usually you will start by taking 35.4 mg (two 17.7 mg tablets) once daily for 2 weeks during each 
cycle of chemotherapy. The maximum recommended dose is 53 mg once daily. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your doctor may start you on a lower dose of one 17.7 mg tablet once daily if you are taking certain 
other medicines. 
After your chemotherapy is completed your doctor may change your dose to one 26.5 mg tablet once 
daily for 2 weeks and then increase your dose to 53 mg (two 26.5 mg tablets) once daily going forward 
depending on how you respond to VANFLYTA. 
Your doctor may temporarily interrupt treatment or change your dose based on blood tests, side effects 
or other medicines you may be taking. 
Your doctor will discontinue your treatment if you are having a stem cell transplant. Your doctor will 
tell you when to stop taking your medicine and when to restart it. 
Taking this medicine 
• 
• 
Take VANFLYTA by mouth - either with or without food. 
Take VANFLYTA at about the same time each day. This will help you remember to take your 
medicine. 
If you vomit after you take this medicine, do not take any more tablets until your next scheduled 
dose. 
• 
How long to take VANFLYTA 
Continue taking VANFLYTA for as long as your doctor tells you. Your doctor will regularly monitor 
your condition to check that the treatment is continuing to work. 
If you have any questions about how long to take VANFLYTA, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you take more VANFLYTA than you should 
If you accidentally take more tablets than you should, or if someone else accidentally takes your 
medicine, talk to a doctor straightaway or go to a hospital and take this package leaflet with you. 
Medical treatment may be necessary. 
If you forget to take VANFLYTA  
If you forget to take VANFLYTA, take it as soon as possible on the same day. Take your next dose at 
your usual time on the next day. 
Do not take an extra dose (two doses on the same day) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking VANFLYTA 
Stopping your treatment with VANFLYTA may cause your condition to become worse. Do not stop 
taking your medicine unless your doctor tells you to do so. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately if you notice the following side effects: 
• 
feeling dizzy, lightheaded or faint. These could be signs of a heart problem called ‘prolonged 
QT interval’ (abnormal electrical activity of the heart that affects its rhythm). 
fever, cough, chest pain, shortness of breath, tiredness or pain when urinating. These could be 
signs of an infection or febrile neutropenia (low white blood cell counts with fever).  
• 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common side effects 
(may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Increase in alanine aminotransferase (abnormal liver enzyme results) 
Thrombocytopenia (low levels of blood platelets) 
Anaemia (low levels of red blood cells) 
Neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell) 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea (feeling sick) 
Abdominal (stomach) pain 
Headache 
Vomiting 
Oedema (swelling of the face, arms and legs) 
Upper respiratory tract infections (nose and throat infections) 
Decreased appetite  
Epistaxis (severe nosebleeds) 
Fungal infections 
Herpes infections 
Dyspepsia (indigestion) 
Bacteraemia (bacteria in the blood) 
Common side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Pancytopenia (low levels in all types of blood cells) 
Uncommon side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
Cardiac arrest (heart stops beating) 
Ventricular fibrillation (dangerous, irregular and uncoordinated contractions of the lower 
chambers of the heart) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store VANFLYTA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the blister after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice any damage to the packaging or if there are any signs of 
tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What VANFLYTA contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is quizartinib. 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 17.7 mg quizartinib (as 
dihydrochloride). 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 26.5 mg quizartinib (as 
dihydrochloride). 
The other ingredients are: 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg: 
Tablet core: Hydroxypropylbetadex, microcrystalline cellulose, magnesium stearate 
Film-coating: Hypromellose, talc, triacetin, titanium dioxide 
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg: 
Tablet core: Hydroxypropylbetadex, microcrystalline cellulose, magnesium stearate 
Film-coating: Hypromellose, talc, triacetin, titanium dioxide, yellow iron oxide 
What VANFLYTA looks like and contents of the pack 
VANFLYTA 17.7 mg film-coated tablets (tablets) are white, round and with ‘DSC 511’ on one side, 
and available in cartons containing 14 x 1 or 28 x 1 film-coated tablets in aluminium/aluminium 
perforated unit dose blisters.  
VANFLYTA 26.5 mg film-coated tablets (tablets) are yellow, round and with ‘DSC 512’ on one side, 
and available in cartons containing 14 x 1, 28 x 1 or 56 x 1 film-coated tablets in 
aluminium/aluminium perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Zielstattstrasse 48 
81379 Munich 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Luitpoldstrasse 1 
85276 Pfaffenhofen 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Daiichi Sankyo Belgium N.V.-S.A 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0) 2 227 18 80 
България 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Teл.: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Česká republika 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Danmark 
Daiichi Sankyo Nordics ApS 
Tlf: +45 (0) 33 68 19 99 
Lietuva 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Daiichi Sankyo Belgium N.V.-S.A 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0) 2 227 18 80 
Magyarország 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel.: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Malta 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Eesti 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Ελλάδα 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Τηλ: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
España 
Daiichi Sankyo España, S.A. 
Tel: +34 91 539 99 11 
France 
Daiichi Sankyo France S.A.S 
Tél: +33 (0) 1 55 62 14 60 
Hrvatska 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Ireland 
Daiichi Sankyo Ireland Ltd 
Tel: +353-(0) 1 489 3000 
Ísland 
Daiichi Sankyo Nordics ApS 
Sími: +354 5357000 
Italia 
Daiichi Sankyo Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: +39-06 85 2551 
Κύπρος 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Τηλ: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Latvija 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Nederland 
Daiichi Sankyo Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31-(0) 20 4 07 20 72 
Norge 
Daiichi Sankyo Nordics ApS 
Tlf: +47 (0) 21 09 38 29 
Österreich 
Daiichi Sankyo Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43-(0) 1 4858642 0 
Polska 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel.: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Portugal 
Daiichi Sankyo Portugal, Unip. LDA 
Tel: +351 21 4232010 
România 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Slovenija 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Slovenská republika 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Suomi/Finland 
Daiichi Sankyo Nordics ApS 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 9 3540 7081 
Sverige 
Daiichi Sankyo Nordics ApS 
Tel: +46 (0) 40 699 2524 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
38 
 
 
 
 
