ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vaniqa 11.5% cream 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each gram of cream contains 115 mg of eflornithine (as hydrochloride monohydrate). 
Excipients with known effect: 
Each gram of cream contains 47.2 mg of cetostearyl alcohol, 14.2 mg of stearyl alcohol, 0.8 mg of 
methyl parahydroxybenzoate and 0.32 mg of propyl parahydroxybenzoate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Cream. 
White to off white cream 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of facial hirsutism in women. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Vaniqa cream should be applied to the affected area twice daily, at least eight hours apart. Efficacy has 
only been demonstrated for affected areas of the face and under the chin. Application should be 
limited to these areas. Maximal applied doses used safely in clinical trials were up to 30 grams per 
month. 
Improvement in the condition may be noticed within eight weeks of starting treatment. 
Continued treatment may result in further improvement and is necessary to maintain beneficial effects. 
The condition may return to pre-treatment levels within eight weeks following discontinuation of 
treatment. 
Use should be discontinued if no beneficial effects are noticed within four months of commencing 
therapy. 
Patients may need to continue to use a hair removal method (e.g. shaving or plucking) in conjunction 
with Vaniqa. In that case, the cream should be applied no sooner than five minutes after shaving or use 
of other hair removal methods, as increased stinging or burning may otherwise occur. 
Special population 
Elderly: (> 65 years) no dosage adjustment is necessary. 
Paediatric population:  
The safety and efficacy of Vaniqa in children aged 0 to 18 years has not been established. There is no 
data available to support use in this age group. 
Hepatic/renal impairment: the safety and efficacy of Vaniqa in women with hepatic or renal 
impairment have not been established. As the safety of Vaniqa has not been studied in patients with 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
severe renal impairment, caution should be used when prescribing Vaniqa for these patients. No data 
are available. 
Method of administration 
A thin layer of the cream should be applied to clean and dry affected areas. The cream should be 
rubbed in thoroughly. The medicinal product should be applied such that no visual residual product 
remains on the treated areas after rub-in. Hands should be washed after applying this medicinal 
product. For maximal efficacy, the treated area should not be cleansed within four hours of 
application. Cosmetics (including sunscreens) can be applied over the treated areas, but no sooner than 
five minutes after application. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Excessive hair growth can result from serious underlying disorders (e.g. polycystic ovary syndrome, 
androgen secreting neoplasm) or certain active substances (e.g. cyclosporin, glucocorticoids, 
minoxidil, phenobarbitone, phenytoin, combined oestrogen-androgen hormone replacement therapy). 
These factors should be considered in the overall medical treatment of patients who might be 
prescribed Vaniqa. 
Vaniqa is for cutaneous use only. Contact with eyes or mucous membranes (e.g. nose or mouth) 
should be avoided. Transient stinging or burning may occur when the cream is applied to abraded or 
broken skin. 
If skin irritation or intolerance develops, the frequency of application should be reduced temporarily to 
once a day. If irritation continues, treatment should be discontinued and the physician consulted. 
This medicinal product contains cetostearyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol which may cause local skin 
reactions (e.g. contact dermatitis) as well as methyl parahydroxybenzoate and propyl 
parahydroxybenzoate which may cause allergic reactions (possibly delayed). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Throughout clinical trials data from a limited number of exposed pregnancies (22) indicate that there is 
no clinical evidence that treatment with Vaniqa adversely affects mothers or foetuses. Among the 
22 pregnancies that occurred during the trials, only 19 pregnancies occurred while the patient was 
using Vaniqa. Of these 19 pregnancies, there were 9 healthy infants, 5 elective abortions, 
4 spontaneous abortions and 1 birth defect (Down’s Syndrome to a 35 year old). To date, no other 
relevant epidemiological data are available. Animal studies have shown reproductive toxicity 
(see section 5.3). The potential risk to humans is unknown. Therefore, women who are pregnant or 
planning pregnancy should use an alternative means to manage facial hair. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether eflornithine/metabolites are excreted in human milk. Women should not use 
Vaniqa whilst breastfeeding. 
Fertility 
There are no data available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaniqa has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
The mostly skin related adverse reactions reported were primarily mild in intensity and resolved 
without discontinuation of Vaniqa or initiation of medical treatment. The most frequently reported 
adverse reaction was acne, which was generally mild. In the vehicle-controlled trials (n= 596), acne 
was observed in 41% of patients at baseline; 7% of patients treated with Vaniqa and 8% treated with 
vehicle experienced a worsening of their condition. Of those with no acne at baseline, similar 
percentages (14%) reported acne following treatment with Vaniqa or vehicle. 
The following listing notes the frequency of adverse skin reactions seen in clinical trials, according to 
MedDRA convention. MedDRA conventions for frequency are very common (≥1/10), common 
(≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare 
(<1/10,000), or not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) including isolated reports. 
Note that over 1350 patients were treated with Vaniqa in these trials for 6 months to one year, while 
only slightly more than 200 patients were treated with vehicle for 6 months. Most events were 
reported at similar rates between Vaniqa and vehicle. The skin effects of burning, stinging, tingling, 
rash and erythema were reported at higher levels in Vaniqa treated patients compared to vehicle, as 
indicated by the asterisk (*). 
Frequency of adverse skin reactions seen in Vaniqa clinical trials, (according to MedDRA frequency 
convention). 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
(≥1/10) 
Acne 
Common 
(≥1/100 to <1/10) 
Pseudofolliculitis barbae, alopecia, stinging skin*, burning skin*, dry skin, 
pruritus, erythema*, tingling skin*, irritated skin, rash*, folliculitis 
Uncommon 
(≥1/1,000 to <1/100) 
Rare 
(≥1/10,000 to 
<1/1,000) 
Ingrown hair, oedema face, dermatitis, oedema mouth, papular rash, bleeding 
skin, herpes simplex, eczema, cheilitis, furunculosis, contact dermatitis, 
abnormal hair texture and abnormal hair growth, hypopigmentation, flushing 
skin, lip numbness, skin soreness 
Rosacea, seborrheic dermatitis, skin neoplasm, maculopapular rash, skin 
cysts, vesiculobullous rash, skin disorder, hirsutism, skin tightness 
Paediatric population 
The adverse reactions observed in adolescents are similar to the ones observed in adults. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Given the minimal cutaneous penetration of eflornithine (see section 5.2), overdose is highly unlikely. 
However, should very high dose cutaneous administration or accidental oral ingestion occur, attention 
should be paid to the effects seen with therapeutic doses of intravenous eflornithine (400 mg/kg/day or 
approximately 24 g/day) used in the treatment of Trypanosoma brucei gambiense infection (African 
sleeping sickness): hair loss, facial swelling, seizures, hearing impairment, gastrointestinal 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disturbance, loss of appetite, headache, weakness, dizziness, anaemia, thrombocytopenia and 
leucopenia. 
If symptoms of overdose occur the use of the medicinal product should be stopped. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: other dermatological preparations, ATC code: D11AX16. 
Mechanism of action 
Eflornithine irreversibly inhibits ornithine decarboxylase, an enzyme involved in the production of the 
hair shaft by the hair follicle. Vaniqa has been shown to reduce the rate of hair growth. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The safety and efficacy of Vaniqa was evaluated in two double-blind, randomised, vehicle-controlled 
clinical trials involving 596 women of skin types I-VI (395 on Vaniqa, 201 on vehicle) treated for up 
to 24 weeks. Physicians assessed the change from baseline on a 4-point scale, 48 hours after women 
had shaved the treated areas of the affected areas of the face and under the chin, considering 
parameters such as hair length and density, and darkening of the skin associated with the presence of 
terminal hair. Improvement was seen as early as 8 weeks after initiation of treatment. 
The combined results of these two trials are presented below: 
Outcome* 
Clear / almost clear 
Marked improvement 
Improved 
No improvement / worse 
Vaniqa 11.5% cream 
6% 
29% 
35% 
30% 
Vehicle 
0% 
9% 
33% 
58% 
* At end of therapy (Week 24). For patients who discontinued therapy during the 
trial last observations were carried forward to Week 24. 
Statistically significant (p ≤ 0.001) improvement for Vaniqa versus vehicle was seen in each of these 
studies for women with marked improvement and clear/almost clear responses. These improvements 
resulted in a corresponding reduction in the darkening appearance of the facial skin associated with the 
presence of terminal hair. Subgroup analysis revealed a difference in treatment success where 27% of 
non-white women and 39% of white women showed a marked or better improvement. Subgroup 
analysis also showed that 29% of obese women (BMI ≥ 30) and 43% of normal weight women 
(BMI < 30) showed a marked or better improvement. About 12% of women in the clinical trials were 
postmenopausal. Significant improvement (p < 0.001) versus vehicle was seen in postmenopausal 
women. 
Patient self-assessments demonstrated a significantly reduced psychological discomfort with the 
condition, as measured by responses to 6 questions on a visual analogue scale. Vaniqa significantly 
reduced how bothered patients felt by their facial hair and by the time spent removing, treating, or 
concealing facial hair. Patient comfort in various social and work settings was also improved. Patient 
self-assessments were found to correlate with physician observations of efficacy. These patient-
observable differences were seen 8 weeks after initiating treatment. 
The condition returned to pre-treatment levels within eight weeks after discontinuation of treatment. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Steady state cutaneous penetration of eflornithine in women from Vaniqa on facial skin of shaving 
women was 0.8%. 
The steady state plasma half-life of eflornithine was approximately 8 hours. Steady state was reached 
within four days. The steady state peak and trough plasma concentrations of eflornithine were 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approximately 10 ng/ml and 5 ng/ml, respectively. The steady state 12-hour area under the plasma 
concentration versus time curve was 92.5 ng.hr/ml. 
Eflornithine is not known to be metabolised and is eliminated primarily in the urine. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of repeat dose 
toxicity, genotoxicity and carcinogenic potential, including one photocarcinogenicity study in mice. 
In a dermal fertility study in rats, no adverse effects on fertility were observed at up to 180 times the 
human dose. In dermal teratology studies, no teratogenic effects were observed in rats and rabbits at 
doses up to 180 and 36 times the human dose, respectively. Higher doses resulted in maternal and 
foetal toxicity without evidence of teratogenicity. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Cetostearyl alcohol; 
Macrogol cetostearyl ether; 
Dimeticone; 
Glyceryl stearate; 
Macrogol stearate; 
Methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218); 
Liquid paraffin; 
Phenoxyethanol; 
Propyl parahydroxybenzoate (E216); 
Purified water; 
Stearyl alcohol; 
Sodium hydroxide (E524) (to adjust pH) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
Shelf-life after first opening: 6 months. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
High density polyethylene tube with a polypropylene screw cap containing 15 g, 30 g or 60 g of 
cream. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Almirall, S.A. 
Ronda General Mitre, 151, 
08022 Barcelona,  
Spain.  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/01/173/001-003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION / RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 20 March 2001 
Date of latest renewal: 07 March 2011 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Almirall Hermal GmbH 
Scholtzstrasse 3 
D-21465 Reinbek 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C 
• 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Not applicable 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON TEXT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vaniqa 11.5% cream 
eflornithine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each gram of cream contains 115 mg eflornithine (as hydrochloride monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: cetostearyl alcohol; macrogol cetostearyl ether; dimeticone; glyceryl stearate; macrogol 
stearate; methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218); liquid paraffin; phenoxyethanol; propyl 
parahydroxybenzoate (E216); purified water; stearyl alcohol and sodium hydroxide (to adjust pH). 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Cream 
15 g 
30 g 
60 g 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Cutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard the tube 6 months after opening. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Almirall, S.A. 
Ronda General Mitre, 151 
08022 Barcelona 
Spain. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/01/173/001 
EU/1/01/173/002 
EU/1/01/173/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
vaniqa 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TUBES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Vaniqa 11.5% cream 
eflornithine 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Cutaneous use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard the tube 6 months after opening. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
15 g 
30 g 
60 g 
6. 
 OTHER 
Almirall, S.A. 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Vaniqa 11.5% cream 
eflornithine 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
- 
-  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
- 
even if their symptoms are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Vaniqa is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Vaniqa 
3.  How to use Vaniqa  
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store Vaniqa 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Vaniqa is and what it is used for 
Vaniqa contains the active substance eflornithine. Eflornithine slows down the growth of hair through 
its effect on a specific enzyme (a protein in the body involved in the production of hair). 
Vaniqa is used to reduce the growth of excessive hair (Hirsutism) on the face of women older than 
18 years of age. 
 2.  What you need to know before you use Vaniqa 
Do not use Vaniqa 
• 
if you are allergic to eflornithine or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Vaniqa. 
• 
• 
tell your doctor of any other medical problems you may be experiencing (especially related to 
your kidneys or liver).  
if you are unsure whether or not to use this medicine, contact your doctor or pharmacist for 
advice. 
Excessive growth of hair may be a result of underlying diseases. Talk to your doctor if you suffer from 
polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) or specific hormone producing tumours, or if you take medicines 
that can induce hair growth, e.g. cyclosporine (following organ transplants), glucocorticoids (e.g. 
against rheumatic or allergic diseases), minoxidil (against high blood pressure), phenobarbitone 
(against seizures), phenytoin (against seizures) or hormone replacement therapy with male hormone 
like effects. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
Vaniqa is not recommended for use in anyone younger than 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Vaniqa 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Talk to your doctor if you need to use other medicines on the areas of skin where you are using the 
cream. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not use Vaniqa if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. You should use an alternative method to 
manage your facial hair if you are pregnant or trying to become pregnant. 
Driving and using machines 
Vaniqa is not expected to have any effect on your ability to drive or use machines. 
Vaniqa contains cetostearyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol which may cause local skin reactions (e.g. 
contact dermatitis). Vaniqa also contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218) and propyl 
parahydroxybenzoate (E216) which may cause allergic reactions (possibly delayed). 
3. 
How to use Vaniqa 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
•  Use twice a day, at least 8 hours apart. 
• 
If you experience irritation (e.g. stinging burning), reduce the use of Vaniqa to once 
daily until the irritation has gone. If it persists contact your doctor. 
If you have just shaved or used any other hair removal method, wait at least 5 minutes 
before using Vaniqa. It may sting or burn if you put this cream on cut or irritated skin. 
• 
•  Clean and dry the areas of the skin where you will be using the cream. 
•  Apply a thin layer of cream and rub it in thoroughly until no visual residual product 
remains on the treated areas. 
If possible, do not wash these areas of skin for 4 hours after applying the cream 
• 
•  Wash your hands after applying the cream. 
•  Wait at least 5 minutes before using make-up or sunscreen on the same areas. 
•  When using on the face, avoid contact with your eyes or the inside of your nose or 
mouth. If you should accidentally get Vaniqa into your eyes, mouth or nose, rinse well 
with water. 
Vaniqa is not a depilatory cream, so you may need to continue with your hair removal method, for 
example by shaving or plucking. 
It may take 8 weeks before you see results. It is important to continue using the cream. If you do not 
see any improvement after using it for 4 months contact your doctor. If you stop using it your original 
hair growth may return within 8 weeks. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you use more Vaniqa than you should 
If you put too much cream on your skin, it is unlikely to harm you. 
If you or anyone else accidentally swallows Vaniqa, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to use Vaniqa 
Apply straight away, but wait at least 8 hours before using it again. 
If you stop using Vaniqa 
To maintain the reduction of hair growth keep using Vaniqa continuously as indicated. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Side effects are usually limited to the skin and mild in intensity. In such cases they normally resolve 
without discontinuation of Vaniqa. 
The frequency of possible side effects listed below is defined using the following convention: 
very common 
common 
uncommon 
rare 
very rare 
not known 
(affects more than 1 user in 10) 
(affects 1 to 10 users in 100) 
(affects 1 to 10 users in 1,000) 
(affects 1 to 10 users in 10,000) 
(affects less than 1 user in 10,000) 
(frequency cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Very common (affects more than 1 user in 10) 
o  acne 
Common (affects 1 to 10 users in 100) 
o  dry skin 
o  hair loss 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o  skin irritation and bumps caused by shaving 
o  skin irritation 
o  stinging, tingling or burning feeling on the skin 
inflammation around the hair shaft 
itching 
rash 
redness 
redness and irritation at the site where the cream is applied 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 users in 100 people) 
o  bumpy rash (papular rash) 
o  cold sores 
o 
o  eczema 
inflammed, dry, cracked or numb lips 
o 
ingrowing hairs 
o 
o  pale areas on the skin 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  skin bleeding 
o  skin boils 
o  skin flushing  
o  skin inflammation 
o  sore skin 
o  swelling of the mouth or face 
o  unusual hair texture or hair growth 
flushing, facial redness and pimples possibly with pus 
Rare (may affect up to 1 users in 1,000 people) 
o  abnormal skin growth (skin neoplasm) 
o  excessive hair growth  
o 
o  other skin disorders 
o 
o 
o  skin cysts 
o  skin tightness 
red, scaly and itchy skin inflammation (seborrhoeic dermatitis) 
red, bumpy or blistering rash 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine 
5. 
How to store Vaniqa 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the box and on the bottom of the tube 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Discard the opened tube with any remaining cream after 6 months. 
Make sure the cap of the tube is tightly closed after each use. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Vaniqa contains  
The active substance is eflornithine. 
Each gram of cream contains 115 mg of eflornithine (as hydrochloride monohydrate). 
The other ingredients are: 
cetostearyl alcohol; macrogol cetostearyl ether; dimeticone; glyceryl stearate; macrogol stearate; 
methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218); liquid paraffin; phenoxyethanol; propyl parahydroxybenzoate 
(E216); purified water and stearyl alcohol. Tiny amounts of sodium hydroxide (E524) are sometimes 
added to keep acidity levels (pH levels) normal. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Vaniqa looks like and the contents of the pack 
Vaniqa is a cream which is white to off white in colour. It is supplied in tubes of 15 g, 30 g and 60 g 
but not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Almirall, S.A. 
Ronda General Mitre, 151 
08022 Barcelona 
Spain.  
Tel: + 34 93 291 30 00 
Manufacturer 
Almirall Hermal GmbH 
Scholtzstrasse 3 
D-21465 Reinbek 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
Belgique/België/Belgien 
Almirall N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 771 86 37 
Ireland / United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Almirall, S.A. Tel: +353 (0) 1431 9836 
България / Česká republika / Hrvatska / Eesti 
/ Ελλάδα / España / Κύπρος / Latvija / Lietuva 
/ Magyarország / Malta / România / Slovenija / 
Slovenská republika 
Almirall, S.A. 
Teл./Tel/Tηλ/: +34 93 291 30 00 
Nederland 
Almirall BV 
Tel: +31 (0) 307991155 
Danmark / Ísland / Norge / Sverige 
Almirall ApS 
Tlf/Sími/Tel: +45 70 25 75 75 
Deutschland 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Almirall Hermal GmbH 
Tel/Tél: +49 (0)40 72704-0 
France 
Almirall SAS 
Tél: +33(0)1 46 46 19 20 
Italia 
Almirall SpA 
Tel: +39 02 346181 
Österreich 
Almirall GmbH 
Tel: +43 01/595 39 60 
Polska 
Almirall Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 330 02 57 
Portugal 
Almirall - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 415 57 50 
Suomi/Finland 
Orion Pharma 
Puh/Tel: +358 10 4261 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
21 
 
