EMA/467446/2019  
EMEA/H/C/005086 
Vantobra1 (tobramycin) 
An overview of Vantobra and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vantobra and what is it used for? 
Vantobra is an antibiotic used for treating long-term lung infection caused by the bacteria 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients aged six years and older who have cystic fibrosis. 
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease in which thick mucus builds up in the lungs that allows bacteria to 
grow more easily, causing infections. P. aeruginosa is a frequent cause of infections in cystic fibrosis 
patients. 
Vantobra is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, tobramycin; however, Vantobra has a higher amount of the active substance. 
The reference medicine for Vantobra is Tobi. 
How is Vantobra used? 
Vantobra is available as a nebuliser solution in single-dose ‘ampoules’. It can only be obtained with a 
prescription. 
Vantobra is inhaled using a device called Tolero nebuliser, which converts the solution in the ampoule 
into a fine mist.  
The recommended dose is one ampoule twice a day, ideally 12 hours apart. After a 28-day course of 
treatment, the patient stops treatment for 28 days, before starting another 28-day course. Treatment 
courses may be repeated for as long as the doctor considers the patient to be benefiting from 
treatment. 
If the patient is also receiving other inhaled treatments or chest physiotherapy, it is recommended that 
Vantobra is used last. For more information about using Vantobra, see the package leaflet or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
1 Previously known as Tobramycin PARI. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                       
How does Vantobra work? 
The active substance in Vantobra, tobramycin, belongs to the group of antibiotics known as 
‘aminoglycosides’. It works by interfering the production of proteins that P. aeruginosa needs to build 
its cell walls, resulting in damage to the bacteria, which eventually kills them. 
What benefits of Vantobra have been shown in studies? 
Tobramycin has been used for several years to treat P. aeruginosa infection in patients with cystic 
fibrosis and the applicant submitted data from the literature to support the use of Vantobra. 
In addition, a ‘bioequivalence’ study in 58 patients with cystic fibrosis aged 6 years and above 
determined whether Vantobra produces similar levels of the active substance in the body as the 
reference medicine, Tobi. The results of the study showed that Vantobra can be considered comparable 
to Tobi. 
What are the risks associated with Vantobra? 
Side effects with Vantobra are not common. However, the following side effects are seen in up to 1 in 
100 patients: dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), dysphonia (hoarseness), pharyngitis (sore throat) and 
cough. For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Vantobra authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Vantobra’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. The Agency noted that inhaled tobramycin was the ‘gold standard’ for 
treating P. aeruginosa infection in patients with cystic fibrosis and that some patients cannot use the 
dry powder form because of unacceptable side effects. For these patients Vantobra, which is inhaled as 
a solution from a nebuliser, would be a useful alternative. 
In addition, it takes less time to inhale Vantobra than other tobramycin nebulisers and the time it takes 
is comparable to the time it takes to inhale the dry powder. Vantobra is therefore easier to use and 
might help patients to stick to their treatment. 
The Agency noted that safety profile of inhaled tobramycin was well known. There were no unexpected 
safety issues with Vantobra. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vantobra? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vantobra have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vantobra are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Vantobra are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vantobra 
Vantobra received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 February 2019. 
Further information on Vantobra can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vantobra 
Vantobra0F (tobramycin)  
EMA/467446/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 08-2019.  
Vantobra0F (tobramycin)  
EMA/467446/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
