EMA/601036/2014  
EMEA/H/C/002569 
EPAR summary for the public 
Vargatef 
nintedanib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Vargatef. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Vargatef. 
For practical information about using Vargatef, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Vargatef and what is it used for? 
Vargatef is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with a type of lung cancer known as non-small cell 
lung cancer.  
Vargatef is used to treat a type of non-small cell lung cancer called ‘adenocarcinoma’, when the cancer 
is locally advanced, metastatic (when cancer cells have spread from the original site to other parts of 
the body) or locally recurrent (when the cancer has come back in the same area).  
The medicine is used in combination with a chemotherapy medicine called docetaxel in patients who 
have already received previous treatment with chemotherapy. 
Vargatef contains the active substance nintedanib. 
How is Vargatef used? 
Vargatef can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the use of cancer medicines. 
Vargatef is available as capsules (100 and 150 mg) to be taken by mouth, preferably with food. The 
recommended dose is 200 mg taken twice a day (around 12 hours apart). Because Vargatef must not 
be given on the same day as docetaxel and because docetaxel is given on day 1 of a 21-day treatment 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
cycle, Vargatef is given on days 2 to 21 with docetaxel being given on day 1. Treatment with Vargatef 
may continue after stopping docetaxel, for as long as the disease improves or remains stable and the 
side effects are tolerable. 
If severe side effects develop, the doctor may decide to interrupt treatment with Vargatef and resume 
it at a lower dose. If severe side effects persist, treatment should be permanently discontinued. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Vargatef work? 
The active substance in Vargatef, nintedanib, blocks the activity of some enzymes known as tyrosine 
kinases. These enzymes can be found in certain receptors (such as VEGF, FGF and PDGF receptors) on 
the surface of cancer cells and on the cells of the surrounding tissue (e.g. blood vessel), where they 
activate several processes including cell division and the growth of new blood vessels. By blocking 
these enzymes, nintedanib helps to reduce the growth and spread of the cancer and to cut off the 
blood supply that keeps cancer cells growing. 
What benefits of Vargatef have been shown in studies? 
In a main study involving 1,314 patients with advanced or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer that did 
not respond to a previous treatment, Vargatef taken in combination with docetaxel was shown to be 
more effective than docetaxel alone at delaying progression of the cancer. Progression-free survival 
(the time patients lived without their disease getting worse) was 3.5 months in patients receiving 
Vargatef plus docetaxel, compared with 2.7 months in patients receiving docetaxel alone. In addition, 
Vargatef led to an improvement in overall survival (how long patients lived) in the subgroup of patients 
with non-small cell lung cancer of the adenocarcinoma type: overall survival was 12.6 months in 
patients treated with Vargatef plus docetaxel, compared with 10.3 months in patients treated with 
docetaxel alone. 
What are the risks associated with Vargatef? 
The most common side effects with Vargatef (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
diarrhoea, vomiting and increased blood levels of certain liver enzymes (a sign of possible liver 
problems). 
Vargatef must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to nintedanib, peanut or soya, 
or any of the other ingredients. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Vargatef, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vargatef approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Vargatef’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP noted 
that Vargatef was effective at slowing down disease progression and prolonging life in the subgroup of 
patients with non-small cell lung cancer of the adenocarcinoma type. Regarding its safety, although 
more side effects were reported in patients treated with Vargatef plus docetaxel than in those treated 
with docetaxel alone, the side effects were considered manageable with dose reductions, supportive 
treatments and treatment interruptions. 
Vargatef  
EMA/601036/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vargatef? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Vargatef is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Vargatef, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Vargatef will conduct studies to find ways to identify those 
patients who are most likely to benefit from treatment with the medicine. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Vargatef 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Vargatef on 21 November 2014.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Vargatef can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Vargatef, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2014. 
Vargatef  
EMA/601036/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
