29 May 2019 
EMA/CHMP/601091/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): nintedanib (oncology indications) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010318/201810 
Period covered by the PSUR: 15 October 2017 to 15 October 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for nintedanib (oncology indications), 
the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Venous thromboembolic events are an important identified risk with Vargatef. ‘Pulmonary embolism’ 
reported events (cumulative and interval) comprise 72% of those. In a number of cases of pulmonary 
embolism reported with Vargatef and although in the majority of them there were alternative risk factors, 
the role of Vargatef could not be excluded. As a result, a relevant update of the Product Information, also 
taking into consideration the role of the risk factors, is warranted. 
Available data on Colitis were not considered adequate in the current assessment for Vargatef as they 
were not conclusive. Nevertheless, the evidence for nintedanib in the respiratory indication was 
considered adequate and PRAC considered that since a possible link between all three signalling pathways 
(PDGF, FGF and VEGF) and colitis can be hypothesized through their effect on angiogenesis, the same 
mechanism can also apply for the oncology indication and thus a product information update in relation to 
Colitis is also recommended for Vargatef.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for nintedanib (oncology indications) the CHMP is of the opinion 
that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing nintedanib (oncology indications) is 
unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/601091/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
