31 May 2018 
EMA/524347/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): nintedanib (oncology indications) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010318/201710 
Period covered by the PSUR: 22 Nov 2016 to 15 Oct 2017 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for nintedanib (oncology indication), the 
scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Following a request from the previous PSUR (PSUSA/00010318/201611) and the assessment of the 
present PSUR, the MAH provided case summaries of 15 post-marketing reported cases of 
gastrointestinal perforations. Gastrointestinal perforation is a known adverse drug reaction and 
important identified risk of Vargatef. In total 14 cases were serious and 5 cases had a fatal outcome 
(in which the role of nintedanib could not be excluded). The outcome of the remaining 10 events was 
almost evenly distributed among not recovered/not resolved, recovered/resolved and unknown. 3 new 
cases were reported during the covering period of this PSUR. 6 cases had a positive de-challenge. 
Cumulatively the overall causality was assessed as related in 6 cases and as not related in 4 cases. 
Based on the available evidence, the PRAC concluded that section 4.4 of the SmPC should be updated 
to amend the current warning on gastrointestinal perforations to include that some fatal cases of 
gastrointestinal perforations have been reported in the post-marketing period.  
Following the re-opening by the MAH of the signal of renal failure and following the assessment of the 
present PSUR, the MAH provided summaries of all the cases under the SMQ ‘acute renal failure’. A total 
of  15  cases  were  retrieved.  In  8  cases  diarrhoea  was  associated  with  renal  failure.  Taking  into 
consideration  that  only  half  the  reported  cases  included  diarrhoea  as  a  factor  provoking  renal 
impairment, another mechanism (e.g. direct effect of nintedanib on kidney through inhibition of PDGFR 
and VEGFR) cannot be excluded. Also, other risk factors have been identified by the MAH.  Although in 
these confounded cases there was no case indicating direct nephrotoxicity attributable to nintedanib, its 
role cannot be excluded. Based on the available evidence, the PRAC concluded that renal failure should 
be  added  as  a  new  warning  in  section  4.4.  of  the  SmPC  and  as  a  new  adverse  drug  reaction  with  a 
frequency ‘uncommon’ in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Following  the  assessment  of  the  present  PSUR,  the  MAH  provided  case  summaries  of  arterial 
thromboembolism  cases.  A  total  of  8  cases  under  the  narrow  SMQ  'Embolim  and  thrombotic  events' 
were  retrieved  including  4  cases  of  myocardial  infarction  in  which  the  role  of  Vargatef  cannot  be 
excluded. In all 4 cases some alternartive etiologies and contributing factors were identified. Based on 
the  available  evidence  and  considering  that  the  PRAC  already  concluded  as  part  of  Ofev  LEG  014  that 
myocardial  infarction  should  be  labelled  in  the  Ofev  SmPC,  the  PRAC  concluded  that  myocardial 
infarction should be added as a new adverse drug reaction with a frequency 'uncommon' in section 4.8 
of the SmPC. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information of medicinal products containing nintedanib (oncology indication) were warranted.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for nintedanib (oncology indication) the CHMP is of the 
opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product containing nintedanib (oncology 
indication) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/524347/2018 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
