1 April 2020
EMA/68844/2020 
Vaxchora: avoiding errors when making up and using the 
vaccine 
Vaxchora, an oral cholera vaccine, is authorised for use in the EU. The vaccine is supplied as a powder 
and the person taking it needs to make it up in water before taking it. The vaccine’s effectiveness may 
be affected if the instructions in the package leaflet on preparing the vaccine are not followed correctly. 
Therefore, together with the summary of product characteristics for healthcare professionals and the 
package leaflet for the person taking Vaxchora, additional information will be provided to doctors and 
those taking the vaccine on the correct way to make up the vaccine and take it. 
Each pack of the vaccine includes two sachets: one, labelled ‘1’, containing a powder to make up a 
buffer solution and the other, labelled ‘2’, containing a powder of the vaccine. 
Information for people taking Vaxchora 
•
•
•
Store Vaxchora in the refrigerator until you are ready to take it.
Follow the step-by-step instructions given to you for making up Vaxchora, particularly on the order
in which you use the sachets to make up the vaccine.
To make up the vaccine, you must use 100 ml of non-carbonated (‘still’) bottled water (either out
of the refrigerator or at room temperature). Do not use tap water.
• Do not let the powder or the vaccine liquid come into contact with your skin or eyes. If you touch
the vaccine wash the area with soap and hot water.
•
If any liquid or powder is spilled do not take the vaccine and get a replacement dose. Clean the
spillage with soap (or an antibacterial disinfectant) and hot water.
• Do not eat or drink anything 1 hour before and 1 hour after you take the vaccine.
• Drink all the vaccine liquid within 15 minutes of preparing it. Some solids may get left behind,
which must be thrown away.
•
•
Throw away the empty sachets and waste material according to local biosafety guidelines. Ask your
doctor, pharmacist or nurse how to throw away medicine waste material. Wash your hands with
soap and water after you have taken the vaccine.
Speak with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you have any questions or need more advice on
making up and taking Vaxchora.
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Information for healthcare professionals 
• 
There is a risk of errors with the reconstitution and use of Vaxchora. People taking the vaccine 
must follow carefully the instruction in the package leaflet. 
•  Healthcare professionals should make sure that people taking the vaccine receive the package 
leaflet (with detailed instructions on reconstituting the vaccine) and a patient/carer guide. 
•  Healthcare professionals should counsel people taking the vaccine (or carers) on how to 
reconstitute and take Vaxchora. In particular, those taking the vaccine should understand the need 
for: 
− 
correct storage until the vaccine is reconstituted and taking it promptly after reconstitution; 
−  using the sachets in the correct order for reconstitution; 
− 
− 
taking the vaccine dose at least an hour away from food and drink; 
correct cleansing or disposal of materials used to reconstitute and take the vaccine according 
to local biosafety guidelines. 
•  Healthcare professionals should report any medication errors through the national reporting 
system. 
More about the medicine 
Vaxchora is a vaccine for immunisation against disease caused by Vibrio cholerae serogroup O1. It 
contains a weakened form of the cholera bacterium Vibrio cholerae (serogroup O1) and is given as a 
single dose at least 10 days before potential exposure to cholera bacteria. 
More information on Vaxchora can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vaxchora 
Vaxchora: avoiding errors when making up and using the vaccine  
EMA/68844/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
