ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Vaxchora effervescent powder and powder for oral suspension 
Cholera vaccine (recombinant, live, oral) 
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each dose of vaccine contains 4 x 108 to 2 x 109 viable cells of V. cholerae live, attenuated strain CVD 
103-HgR1. 
1 Produced by recombinant DNA technology. 
This product contains genetically modified organisms (GMOs). 
Excipient(s) with known effect: each dose of vaccine contains lactose, sucrose, and 863 milligrams of 
sodium. 
For the full list of excipients see section 6.1. 
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Effervescent powder and powder for oral suspension. 
White-to-off-white buffer powder and white-to-beige active ingredient powder. 
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
Vaxchora is indicated for active immunisation against disease caused by Vibrio cholerae serogroup 
O1 in adults and children aged 2 years and older. 
This vaccine should be used in accordance with official recommendations. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Adults and children aged 2 years and older 
A single oral dose should be administered at least 10 days prior to potential exposure to V. cholerae 
O1. 
Revaccination 
No data are available on revaccination interval. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Vaxchora in children less than 2 years has not been established. No data are 
available.  
2 
Method of administration 
Oral use. 
For instructions on reconstitution of Vaxchora prior to administration, see section 6.6. 
Eating and drinking should be avoided 60 minutes before and after oral ingestion of Vaxchora. 
The reconstituted vaccine forms a slightly cloudy suspension that may contain some white 
particulates. After reconstitution, the suspension should be drunk within 15 minutes. The recipient 
should drink the full contents of the cup at once. Some residue may remain in the cup. The cup should 
be washed with soap and hot water. 
Consumption of less than a half dose may result in decreased protection. If less than half the dose is 
consumed, consideration may be given to repeating a full dose of Vaxchora within 72 hours.  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance(s) or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Allergic reaction to previous ingestion of Vaxchora. 
Individuals with congenital immune deficiency or receiving immunosuppressive drugs or treatments. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administrated product should be clearly recorded. 
Factors affecting protection 
Vaxchora confers protection specific to Vibrio cholerae serogroup O1. Immunisation does not protect 
against V. cholerae O139 or other species of Vibrio. 
Vaxchora does not provide 100% protection. Vaccinees should adhere to hygiene advice and exercise 
caution regarding food and water consumed in cholera-affected areas. 
No data are available in persons living in cholera-affected areas or in individuals with pre-existing 
immunity to cholera. 
The protection afforded by Vaxchora may be reduced in HIV-infected individuals. 
Potential risk to contacts 
Vaxchora shedding in the stools was studied for 7 days post-vaccination, and was observed in 11.3% 
of vaccine recipients. The duration of shedding of the vaccine strain is unknown. There is a potential 
for transmission of the vaccine strain to non-vaccinated close contacts (e.g., household contacts). 
Concomitant administration with antibacterial agents and/or chloroquine 
Concomitant administration with antibacterial agents and/or chloroquine should be avoided because 
protection against cholera may be diminished. Refer to section 4.5. 
3 
Gastrointestinal Disease 
In individuals with acute gastroenteritis, vaccination should be postponed until after recovery, because 
protection against cholera may be diminished. The degree of protection and the effects of vaccination 
in individuals with chronic gastrointestinal disease are unknown. 
Limitations of the clinical data 
Clinical trials were conducted in individuals age 2 to 64 years old. Efficacy was demonstrated in a 
human cholera challenge at 10 days or 3 months post-vaccination in adults age 18-45 years and 
immunobridging to other populations based on the rate of seroconversion. Immunogenicity data are 
available for 24 months post-vaccination (see section 5.1). There are no immunogenicity or efficacy 
data in individuals over 64 years of age. 
Excipients 
The vaccine contains lactose and sucrose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, congenital lactase deficiency, glucose-galactose malabsorption, fructose intolerance, or 
sucrose-isomaltase insufficiency should not take this vaccine. 
The vaccine contains 863 mg of sodium per dose, equivalent to 43% of the WHO recommended 
maximum daily intake of 2 g of sodium for a healthy adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed with Vaxchora, however data and clinical experience from 
other vaccines can be applicable to Vaxchora. 
There should be an interval of 2 hours between the administration of Vaxchora and of typhoid vaccine 
Ty21a (gastro-resistant capsules) as the buffer administered with Vaxchora may affect the transit of 
the capsules through the gastrointestinal tract. 
Concomitant administration of Vaxchora with systemic antibiotics active against V. cholerae should 
be avoided since these agents may prevent a sufficient degree of replication to occur in order to induce 
a protective immune response. Vaxchora should not be administered to patients who have received 
oral or parenteral antibiotics within 14 days prior to vaccination. Oral or parenteral antibiotics should 
be avoided for 10 days following vaccination with Vaxchora. 
Data from the study of a previous CVD 103-HgR-based vaccine indicate that immune responses to 
Vaxchora and protection against cholera may be diminished when Vaxchora is administered 
concomitantly with chloroquine. Administer Vaxchora at least 10 days before beginning antimalarial 
prophylaxis with chloroquine. There are no data regarding concomitant use of Vaxchora with other 
anti-malarial drugs. 
The vaccine is acid-labile and is administered with a buffer. Eating and drinking should be avoided for 
60 minutes before and after taking Vaxchora as this may interfere with the protective effect of the 
buffer.  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are limited data from the use of Vaxchora in pregnant women. 
Animal studies are insufficient with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Vaxchora should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefits to the mother outweigh the 
potential risks, including those to the foetus. 
4 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether Vaxchora is excreted in human milk. A risk to the breastfed child cannot be 
excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to abstain from using 
Vaxchora taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of Vaxchora 
for the woman. 
Fertility 
No human or animal data on the effect of Vaxchora on fertility are available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Vaxchora has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
The most frequent reported adverse reactions following Vaxchora administration are tiredness 
(30.2%), headache (28.3%), abdominal pain (18.4%), nausea/vomiting (17.7%), and lack of appetite 
(15.7%). 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The adverse reaction frequency classification used is as follows: Very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 
1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare 
(<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Adverse Reactions 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Decreased appetite 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Flatulence, constipation, abdominal distension, dyspepsia, abnormal faeces, dry 
mouth, eructation 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Arthralgia 
Chills 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Frequency 
Very common 
Very common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very common 
Uncommon 
Paediatric population 
A clinical trial was conducted in 550 children age 2 to <18 years. Based on the results of this trial the 
type of adverse reactions in children are expected to be similar to those in adults. Some adverse reactions 
were more common in children than adults, including fatigue (35.7% vs 30.2%), abdominal pain (27.8% 
vs 18.4%), vomiting (3.8% vs 0.2%), decreased appetite (21.4% vs 15.7%) and pyrexia (2.4% vs 0.8%). 
5 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There have been reports of multiple doses of Vaxchora being administered several weeks apart. The 
adverse reactions reported were comparable to those seen after the recommended dose. 
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Bacterial vaccines, ATC code: J07AE02 
Mechanism of action 
Vaxchora contains live attenuated cholera bacteria (V. cholerae O1 classical Inaba strain CVD 103-
HgR) that replicate in the gastrointestinal tract of the recipient and induce serum vibriocidal antibody 
and memory B cell responses. Immune mechanisms conferring protection against cholera following 
receipt of Vaxchora have not been determined, however, rises in serum vibriocidal antibody 10 days 
after vaccination with Vaxchora were associated with protection in a human challenge study. 
Efficacy against cholera challenge 
Vaxchora efficacy against cholera was demonstrated in a human challenge study conducted in 197 
healthy adult volunteers mean age 31 years (range 18 to 45, 62.9% male, 37.1% female) in which a 
subset of Vaxchora or placebo recipients were challenged with live V. cholerae at 10 days post-
vaccination (n=68) or 3 months post-vaccination (n=66). Protective efficacy against moderate to 
severe diarrhoea is shown in Table 1. 
In individuals with blood group O only, the protective efficacy against moderate or severe diarrhoea 
was 78.4% in the 10day challenge group (n=19) and 82.5% in the 3 month challenge group (n=20). 
Table 1: Protective Efficacy in the Prevention of Moderate to Severe Diarrhoea Following 
Challenge with V. cholerae O1 El Tor Inaba at 10 Days and 3 Months Post-Vaccination (Intent-
to-Treat Population) 
Parameter 
Number of Subjects with 
Moderate or Severe 
Diarrhoea (Attack Rate) 
Protective Efficacy %
[95% CI] 
Vaxchora 
10 Day Challenge 
N=35 
2 (5.7%) 
Vaxchora 
3 Month Challenge 
N=33 
4 (12.1%) 
Combined Placebo
10 Day or 3 Month 
Challenge 
N=66 
39 (59.1%) 
90.3% 
[62.7%, 100.0%] 
79.5% 
[49.9%, 100.0%] 
- 
Immunogenicity 
The human challenge study showed that vibriocidal seroconversion, defined as a four-fold or greater 
rise in serum vibriocidal antibody titres from baseline measured 10 days after vaccination, had a nearly 
one-to-one correlation with protection against moderate-to-severe diarrhoea. Seroconversion was 
therefore selected as the immunologic bridge between adults age 18 to <46 years in the challenge 
study and other populations, i.e. older adults and paediatric subjects. Three additional studies 
evaluated immunogenicity: a large trial in 3146 healthy adults age 18 to<46 years (mean age 29.9, 
range 18-46, 45.2% male, 54.8% female); a trial in 398 healthy older adults age 46 to <65 years (mean 
6 
age 53.8, range 46-64, 45.7% male, 54.3% female); and a paediatric trial in healthy subjects age 2-<18 
years. Prespecified immunobridging analyses, based on differences in seroconversion rates, were 
determined to demonstrate non-inferiority in seroconversion rate between older adults or paediatric 
subjects and the adults age 18 to <46 in the large immunogenicity trial.  
The seroconversion rates in vaccine and placebo recipients from each trial at 10 days post-vaccination, 
as well as immunobridging results, are summarised in Tables 2 and 4. In the challenge study, 79.8% of 
subjects seroconverted by 7 days post-vaccination. Seroconversion rates in older adults and paediatric 
subjects were non-inferior to those in younger adults. 
In the three adult studies significant increases in the percentage of anti-O1 lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 
IgA and IgG memory B cells and anti-cholera toxin IgG memory B cells were seen at 90 and 180 days 
after vaccination.  No relationship between age and memory B cell response was observed. Geometric 
mean titres (GMTs) of serum vibriocidal antibodies in vaccinated subjects were also significantly 
higher than the respective GMTs of placebo recipients at 90 and 180 days after immunisation in all 
age groups. The duration of protection is not known. 
Table 2: Vibriocidal Antibody Seroconversion Against Classical Inaba V. cholerae Vaccine 
Strain at 10 Days Post-Vaccination in Adults 
Study 
Vaxchora Recipients 
Placebo Recipients 
Immunobridging: 
Difference in 
Seroconversion 
Rate Compared to 
Large Trial in 18-
45 year olds 
(age in years) 
Challenge Trial 
(18 – 45) 
Large Trial 
(18 – 45) 
Older Adults 
(46 – 64) 
Nb 
93 
2687 
291 
Seroconversiona 
% 
[95% CI] 
90.3% 
[82.4%, 95.5%] 
93.5% 
[92.5%, 94.4%] 
90.4% 
[86.4%, 93.5%] 
Nb 
102 
334 
99 
Seroconversiona 
% 
[95% CIc] 
2.0% 
[0.2%, 6.9%] 
4.2% 
[2.3%, 6.9%] 
0% 
[0.0%, 3.7%] 
%d 
[95% CIc] 
- 
- 
−3.1%
[−6.7%, 0.4%] 
a Seroconversion is defined as the percentages of subjects who had at least a 4-fold rise in vibriocidal antibody 
titer at 10 days post-vaccination compared to baseline. 
b N=number of subjects with analyzable samples at Day 1 and Day 11. 
c CI=confidence interval. 
d  Non-inferiority  criteria:  lower  bound  of  the  two-sided  95%  confidence  interval  on  the  difference  in 
seroconversion rates compared with adults age 18 to <46 years had to be greater than –10 percentage points and 
the lower bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval on the proportion of vaccinees who seroconverted 10 
days after vaccination had to be equal to or exceed 70%. 
Available data on seroconversion rates against other biotypes and serotypes of V. cholerae are shown 
in Table 3.  Seroconversion rates for these biotypes and serotypes were not determined in children. 
7 
Table 3: Seroconversion Rates 10 Days Post-Vaccination for the Four Major V. cholerae O1 
Serogroup Biotypes and Serotypes [Immunogenicity Evaluable Population] 
Cholera Strain 
Classical Inabad 
El Tor Inaba 
Classical Ogawa 
El Tor Ogawa 
Younger Adults 
(18 through 45 year olds) 
Vaxchora 
Older Adults 
(46 through 64 year olds) 
Vaxchora 
Na 
93 
93 
93 
93 
%b 
[95% CIc] 
90.3% 
[82.4%, 95.5%] 
91.4% 
[83.8%, 96.2%] 
87.1% 
[78.5%, 93.2%] 
89.2%  
[81.1%, 94.7%] 
Na 
291 
290 
291 
290 
% 
[95% CI] 
90.4% 
[86.4%, 93.5%] 
91.0% 
[87.1%, 94.1%] 
73.2% 
[67.7%, 78.2%] 
71.4% 
[65.8%, 76.5%] 
a N=number of subjects with measurements at baseline and 10 days post-vaccination. One subject in the 
younger adults study did not have a Day 11 measurement and was dropped from the analysis. 
b Seroconversion is defined as the percentages of subjects who had at least a 4-fold rise in vibriocidal 
antibody titer at 10 days post-vaccination compared to the titer measured at baseline. 
c CI=confidence interval. 
d Vaxchora contains the classical Inaba strain of V. cholerae O1. 
Paediatric population 
An immunogenicity trial was conducted in 550 healthy children age 2 to <18 years (mean age 9.0, 
range 2-17, 52.0% male, 48.0% female). In the immunogenicity evaluable population (n=466) the ratio 
of male to female was 52.8% male and 47.2% female. The seroconversion results in vaccine and 
placebo recipients and immunobridging results are shown in Table 4. 
Long-term immunogenicity data are available from a subset of children age 12 to <18 years. The 
seroconversion rate ranged from 100% at 28 days post-vaccination to 64.5% at 729 days post-
vaccination.  The seroconversion results over time are shown in Table 5. 
Table 4: Vibriocidal Antibody Seroconversion Against Classical Inaba V. cholerae Vaccine Strain 
at 10 Days Post-Vaccination in Children [Immunogenicity Evaluable Population] 
Study 
Vaxchora Recipients 
Placebo Recipients 
Immunobridging: 
Difference in 
Seroconversion 
Rate Compared to 
Large Trial in 18-
45 year olds 
(age in years) 
Paediatric Trial 
(2 – <18) 
Nb 
399 
Seroconversiona 
% 
[98.3% CI] 
98.5% 
[96.2%, 99.4%] 
Nb 
67 
Seroconversiona 
% 
[95% CIc] 
1.5% 
[0.3%, 8.0%] 
%d 
[96.7% CI] 
5.0% 
[2.8%, 6.4%]c 
a Seroconversion is defined as the percentages of subjects who had at least a 4-fold rise in vibriocidal antibody 
titer at 10 days post-vaccination compared to baseline. 
b N=number of subjects with analyzable samples at Day 1 and Day 11. 
c CI=confidence interval. 
d  Non-inferiority  criteria:  lower  bound  of  the  two-sided  98.3%  confidence  interval  on  the  difference  in 
seroconversion rates compared with adults ages 18 to <46 years had to be greater than  –10 percentage points 
and  the  lower  bound  of  the  two-sided  98.3%  confidence  interval  on  the  proportion  of  vaccinees  who 
seroconverted 10 days after vaccination had to be equal to or exceed 70%. 
8 
Table 5: Vibriocidal Antibody Seroconversion Against Classical Inaba V. cholerae Vaccine 
Strain 10 through 729 Days Post-Vaccination in Children age 12 to <18 Years [Immunogenicity 
Evaluable Population in the Long-Term Follow-up Substudy] 
Paediatric Trial 
(12 - < 18 years) 
Day Post-Vaccination 
10 
VAXCHORA 
Nb 
72 
28 
90 
180 
364 
546 
729 
72 
72 
71 
70 
67 
62 
VAXCHORA 
Seroconversiona 
% 
[95% CIc] 
100.0% 
[94.9%, 100.0%] 
100.0% 
[94.9%, 100.0%] 
88.9% 
[79.6%, 94.3%] 
83.1% 
[72.7%, 90.1%] 
68.6% 
[57.0%, 78.2%] 
73.1% 
[61.5%, 82.3%] 
64.5% 
[52.1%, 75.3%] 
a  Seroconversion  is  defined  as  the  percentages  of  subjects  who  had  at  least  a  4-fold  rise  in 
vibriocidal antibody titer post-vaccination compared to baseline. 
b N=number of subjects with analyzable samples in the immunogenicity evaluable population of 
the long term follow-up sub-study. 
c CI=confidence interval. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Vaxchora in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the prevention of cholera (see section 
4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Not applicable. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
No preclinical safety data are available for Vaxchora. 
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Buffer, sachet 1: 
Sodium bicarbonate 
Sodium carbonate 
Ascorbic acid 
Lactose 
Active ingredient, sachet 2: 
Sucrose 
Hydrolysed casein 
Ascorbic acid 
Lactose 
9 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this vaccine must not be mixed with other medicinal products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
18 months. 
Vaxchora stored in the outer carton is stable at 25°C for up to 12 hours. 
After reconstitution (see section 6.6), the suspension should be drunk within 15 minutes. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Store in the original package. 
Avoid exposure to temperatures above 25°C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Carton box containing one active ingredient sachet and one buffer sachet. 
The active ingredient sachet contains 2 g of powder for oral suspension. 
The buffer sachet contains 4.5 g of effervescent powder. 
The active ingredient sachet is made from four-ply multilayer foil containing an outer layer of paper, a 
layer of low-density polyethylene, a layer of aluminium foil and an inner layer of low-density 
polyethylene. 
The buffer sachet is made from three-ply multilayer foil containing an outer layer of paper, a middle 
layer of aluminium foil and an inner layer of low-density polyethylene. 
Pack size: 1 set of 2 sachets. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal of used medicinal product or waste materials and other 
handling of the product 
This medicinal product contains genetically modified organisms. Unused medicinal product must be 
disposed of in compliance with the local biosafety guidelines. 
To prepare the vaccine for administration the Vaxchora active and buffer component sachets are 
removed from the refrigerator no more than 12 hours at 25°C prior to reconstitution. 
It is important to mix the sachets in the order described. First, the contents of the buffer sachet 1 (a 
white-to-off-white powder) are mixed with 100 mL of cold or room temperature (≤25°C) non-
carbonated or carbonated bottled water in a cup. For children age 2 to <6 years ONLY, half (50 mL) 
of the buffer solution should then be discarded before proceeding to the next step. Second, the contents 
of the active component sachet 2 (a white-to-beige powder) are then added and the mixture is stirred 
for at least 30 seconds. The reconstituted vaccine forms a slightly cloudy suspension that may contain 
some white particulates. Sucrose (up to 4 g/ 1 teaspoon) or stevia sweetener (no more than 1 gram / ¼ 
teaspoon) may then be stirred into the suspension if desired. DO NOT add other sweeteners as this 
may reduce the effectiveness of the vaccine. The dose should be administered within 15 minutes of 
reconstitution. 
Note: if the sachets are reconstituted in the incorrect order, the vaccine must be discarded. 
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bavarian Nordic A/S 
Philip Heymans Alle 3 
10 
DK-2900 Hellerup 
Denmark 
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER
EU/1/20/1423/001 
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 01 April 2020 
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
{DD month YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
11 
ANNEX II 
A. MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE
FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
12 
A. MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
Bavarian Nordic Berna GmbH 
Oberriedstrasse 68 
CH-3174 Thörishaus 
Switzerland 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
IL-CSM GmbH 
Marie-Curie-Strasse 8 
D-79539 Lörrach 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
•
Official batch release
In accordance with Article 114 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken 
by a state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
C.
•
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation.  
D.
•
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•
•
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile
13 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
•
Additional risk minimisation measures
Prior to the launch of Vaxchora in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) 
must agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication 
media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The educational programme is aimed at minimising the risk of medication errors during the 
reconstitution and use of the product. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Vaxchora is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe and use Vaxchora have access to/are 
provided with the following educational package: 
•
•
Health care professional educational material
Patient information pack
Health care professional educational material: 
•
•
•
The Summary of Product Characteristics
Guide for healthcare professionals
Patient Guide
Guide for healthcare professionals key messages: 
o
o
o
o
o
That there is an important potential risk of medication errors during the
reconstitution and use of Vaxchora,
There is an increased potential risk of medication errors when the vaccine is
prepared and given to children 2 to < 6 years old
The patients/caretakers should be informed about and follow the reconstitution
instructions as advised
The healthcare professionals should council the patients and their caretakers on
how to reconstitute and administer Vaxchora
Detailed description of the administration procedures of Vaxchora
The patient information pack: 
o
o
Patient information leaflet
A patient/carer guide
Patient/carer guide key messages: 
o
o
o
o
That it is important that Vaxchora is reconstituted and administered as instructed
Increased attention to instructions should be given when preparing and
administering vaccine to children 2 to < 6 years of age
Detailed description of the modalities used for the self-administration of Vaxchora
The importance of reporting medication errors.
14 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
15 
A. LABELLING
16 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Single carton box 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Vaxchora 
Effervescent powder and powder for oral suspension 
Cholera vaccine (recombinant, live, oral) 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
4x108 to 2x109 viable cells of V. cholerae strain CVD 103-HgR. 
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains sucrose, lactose, and sodium. See leaflet for further information. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
1 sachet powder for oral suspension 
1 sachet effervescent powder 
One dose. 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Mix the effervescent powder (sachet 1) with bottled water (for children 2 to <6 years ONLY, discard 
half the solution) then add the active ingredient (sachet 2) and mix prior to taking. 
Oral use. 
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator. 
17 
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
This medicine contains genetically modified organisms. Unused medicine must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local biosafety guidelines. 
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bavarian Nordic A/S 
Philip Heymans Alle 3 
DK-2900 Hellerup  
Denmark 
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/20/1423/001 
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Vaxchora 
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC: {number} 
SN: {number} 
NN: {number} 
18 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
Sachet 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Vaxchora active ingredient 
powder for oral suspension 
cholera vaccine strain 
Oral use 
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
To be used with effervescent powder dissolved in bottled water. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
2.0 g 
6.
2 
OTHER
Please see other side for instructions. 
Sachet 2 of 2.  Use last. 
Bavarian Nordic A/S 
19 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
Sachet 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Sodium hydrogen carbonate effervescent powder 
Oral use  
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
To be mixed with bottled water and Vaxchora active ingredient. 
Read the package leaflet before use especially if using in Children aged 2 to <6 years as different 
preparation steps are required. 
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
4.5 g 
6.
1 
OTHER
Please see other side for instructions. 
Sachet 1 of 2.  Use first. 
Bavarian Nordic A/S 
20 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
21 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Vaxchora effervescent powder and powder for oral suspension 
cholera vaccine (recombinant, live, oral) 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you take this vaccine because it contains important 
information for you. 
-
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse.
This vaccine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet 
1. What Vaxchora is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Vaxchora
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Vaxchora
Possible side effects
How to store Vaxchora
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Vaxchora is and what it is used for
Vaxchora is an oral vaccine against cholera that stimulates the immunological defence in the gut. The 
vaccine is used for protection from cholera in adults and children aged 2 years and older. The vaccine 
must be taken at least 10 days before travelling to a cholera-affected area. 
How Vaxchora works 
Vaxchora prepares the immune system (the body's defences) to defend itself against cholera. When a 
person takes the vaccine, the immune system makes proteins called antibodies against the cholera 
bacterium and its toxin (harmful substance) that causes diarrhoea. In this way the immune system is 
ready to fight cholera bacteria if the person comes into contact with it.  
2. What you need to know before you take Vaxchora
Do not take Vaxchora: 
-
-
-
if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in this medicine (listed in section 6).
if you had allergic reactions when you previously took Vaxchora.
if you have a weakened immune system, for example, if you were born with a weakened
immune system or if you are having treatments such as high-dose corticosteroid treatment,
cancer medicines or radiotherapy that can weaken the immune system.
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse before taking Vaxchora. 
Not everyone taking Vaxchora will be fully protected against cholera. It is important to continue to 
follow hygiene advice and take special care with food and water in cholera-affected areas. 
Vaxchora may be less effective if you have HIV. 
22 
Bacteria from the vaccine may be present in your stool for at least 7 days after you take the vaccine. 
To prevent any contamination, wash your hands thoroughly after visiting the toilet, changing nappies 
and before preparing food for at least 14 days after you take Vaxchora. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this vaccine to children younger than 2 years of age because it is not known how well it 
works in this age group. 
Other medicines and Vaxchora 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines or vaccines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription, including herbal 
medicines. This is because Vaxchora can affect the way some other medicines and vaccines work.  
In particular tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking: 
•
antibiotics – Vaxchora may not work if you take it while you are also taking antibiotics. Take
Vaxchora no earlier than 14 days after the last dose of an antibiotic. Avoid antibiotics for 10
days after taking Vaxchora.
chloroquine for malaria prevention – Vaxchora may not work if you take it while you are also
taking chloroquine. Take Vaxchora at least 10 days before starting chloroquine or 14 days after
taking chloroquine.
the typhoid vaccine Ty21a – Vaxchora may not work if it is taken at the same time as Ty21a.
You should take Vaxchora at least 2 hours before or after taking Ty21a.
•
•
If any of the above apply to you, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Vaxchora. 
Vaxchora with food and drink 
You must not eat or drink for 60 minutes before and after taking Vaxchora as this may reduce the 
vaccine’s effectiveness. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Vaxchora is not likely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. However, do not drive or use any 
machines if you are feeling unwell. 
Vaxchora contains lactose, sucrose, and sodium 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars contact your doctor 
before taking this medicinal product. 
This vaccine contains 863 mg of sodium (the main component of cooking/table salt) per dose.  This is 
equivalent to 43% of the recommended daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. Please take this 
into account if you are on a controlled sodium diet. 
3.
How to take Vaxchora
Always take this vaccine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. Check with your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is the contents of both sachets in the carton. However for children 2 to less 
than 6 years old take note of Step 8 in the instructions on how to prepare the vaccine, shown below. 
Protection against cholera is established within 10 days after taking Vaxchora. Your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse will tell you how soon before travelling to take the vaccine. 
23 
Instructions: 
PREPARE THIS VACCINE EXACTLY AS DESCRIBED IN THIS LEAFLET 
Please read the following before you begin: 
Vaxchora may not work if the following occurs:  
Incorrect storage; the vaccine must be stored in the refrigerator.
•
• Using the incorrect amount of water; 100 mL must be used.
• Using the incorrect type of water; bottled water that is cold or room temperature and non-
carbonated or carbonated must be used.
• Mixing the sachets in the wrong order; sachet 1 must be added to the water first. If the sachets
are mixed in the wrong order you must discard the vaccine and request a replacement dose.
• Eating or drinking; must be avoided 60 minutes before and after taking the vaccine, eating or
drinking can reduce the effectiveness of the vaccine.
Do not touch your eyes when you prepare the vaccine to avoid contamination. 
If any powder or liquid gets spilt, clean the surface with hot water and soap or an antibacterial 
disinfectant. 
If there is a significant spill (more than a few drops of liquid or grains of powder), dispose of the 
vaccine and get a new one from your doctor or pharmacist; DO NOT take the remaining medication. 
Step 1 
Gather materials: 
• Clean cup
• Utensil to stir
• Bottled water (non-carbonated or
Step 2 
Step 3 
carbonated, cold or room
temperature, 25°C or less)
Item to measure 100 mL of bottled
water (e.g. measuring jug)
Scissors
•
•
Remove the vaccine from the refrigerator. 
Locate the two sachets: the sachets are 
labelled 1 and 2. 
Sachet 1 contains “Sodium hydrogen 
carbonate effervescent powder” (buffer) and 
is black and white. Sachet 2 contains 
“Vaxchora Active ingredient” and is blue 
and white. 
If a sachet is not intact, do not use either 
sachet and contact your doctor, pharmacist or 
nurse about acquiring a replacement dose; 
using a sachet that is not intact can reduce the 
effectiveness of the vaccine.. 
24 
Step 4 
Step 5 
Step 6 
Measure 100 mL of bottled cold or room 
temperature non-carbonated or carbonated 
water and pour into a clean cup. 
Using bottled water is necessary for the 
vaccine to be effective –using non-bottled 
(e.g. tap water) may render the vaccine 
ineffective. 
Use scissors to cut off the top of sachet 1. 
Do not put your fingers into the sachet. Wash 
your hands if you touch the sachet contents, 
in order to reduce the chance of 
contamination. 
Empty the contents of sachet 1 into the water 
in the cup. It will fizz. 
Step 7 
Stir until the powder completely dissolves. 
Step 8 
For children age 2 to <6 years only:  
Pour away and discard half of the buffer 
solution. (Note: For children over 6 years and 
adults this step is NOT required) 
Step 9 
Use scissors to cut off the top of sachet 2. 
Do not put your fingers into the sachet. Wash 
your hands if you touch the sachet contents, 
in order to reduce the chance of 
contamination.  
Step 10 
Empty the contents of sachet 2 into the cup. 
25 
Step 11 
Step 12 
Step 13 
Step 14 
Step 15 
Stir for at least 30 seconds. The powder from 
sachet 2 may not dissolve completely. It will 
form a slightly cloudy mixture with some 
white particles. 
If desired, after stirring in sachet 2 for at least 
30 seconds, stevia sweetener (no more than 1 
gram or ¼ teaspoon) or sugar (sucrose, not 
more than 4 grams or 1 teaspoon) may be 
added, and then stirred into the suspension. 
DO NOT add other sweeteners as this may 
reduce the effectiveness of the vaccine. 
Drink the full contents of the cup within 15 
minutes of preparing it. Some residue may 
remain in the cup and must be discarded.  If 
you or your child take less than half of the 
dose, contact your doctor, pharmacist, or 
nurse right away about the need for a repeat 
dose. 
Dispose of the empty sachets according to 
local biosafety guidelines. 
Ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse how to 
throw away medicine waste material. 
If a spill occurs while stirring or drinking the 
medication, or there is any residue (powder 
or liquid left behind from a stirring utensil, 
cup, or other object) on the mixing surface, 
clean up spilled material or residue 
preferably with a disposable paper 
towel/cloth using hot water and soap or 
antibacterial disinfectant. Discard the paper 
towel together with the sachets (see above). 
Wash the cup and spoon or stirrer with soap 
and hot water.   
26 
Step 16 
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and hot 
water to prevent contamination. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. 
4.
Possible side effects
Like all vaccines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Contact a doctor immediately if you get the following serious side effects: 
•
serious allergic reactions causing swelling of the face or throat,hives, itchy rash,
breathlessness and/or a drop in blood pressure and fainting.
Other side effects: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
•
•
•
•
•
headache,
stomach pains,
feeling or being sick,
lack of appetite,
tiredness.
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
•
diarrhoea.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
flatulence,
constipation,
bloating (abdominal distension),
indigestion,
abnormal faeces,
dry mouth,
burping,
fever,
dizziness,
joint pain,
rash.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
•
chills.
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
27 
5.
How to store Vaxchora
Keep this vaccine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use Vaxchora after the expiry date which is stated on the carton. The expiry date refers to the 
last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2C – 8C). 
Store in the original package. 
Vaxchora in the original package is stable for up to 12 hours at 25°C. Avoid exposing Vaxchora to 
temperatures above 25°C. 
Do not use this vaccine if you notice the sachets are damaged and contact your doctor, pharmacist, or 
nurse for a replacement dose. 
This medicine contains genetically-modified organisms. Local biosafety guidelines should be followed 
for unused medicine or waste material. Ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse how to throw away 
medicines you no longer use or waste material. 
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Vaxchora contains 
-
-
Each dose contains 4x108 to 2x109 viable cells of V. cholerae strain CVD 103-HgR.
The other ingredients are sucrose, hydrolysed casein, ascorbic acid, lactose, sodium bicarbonate,
and sodium carbonate.
This vaccine contains genetically modified organisms (GMOs).
-
What Vaxchora looks like and contents of the pack 
The carton contains two sachets.  One sachet contains white-to-off-white buffer sodium hydrogen 
carbonate effervescent powder.  The other sachet contains white-to-beige active ingredient vaccine 
powder. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bavarian Nordic A/S, Philip Heymans Alle 3, DK-2900 Hellerup, Denmark. 
Manufacturer 
IL-CSM GmbH 
Marie-Curie-Strasse 8 
D-79539 Lörrach 
Germany 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
28 
