Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan  
Summary of risk management plan for Vaxchora (Cholera 
Vaccine, Recombinant, Live, Oral) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Vaxchora. The RMP details important risks of 
Vaxchora, how these risks can be minimised and how more information will be obtained about Vaxchora's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Vaxchora's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  information  leaflet  (PIL)  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Vaxchora should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Vaxchora should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Vaxchora's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Vaxchora  is  authorised  for  active  immunisation  against  cholera  disease  in  adults  and  children  aged  2 
years and older. (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains V. cholerae strain CVD 103-HgR as the 
active substance and it is given by oral administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Vaxchora’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Vaxchora’s  EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/vaxchora. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Vaxchora, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Vaxchora's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
 
 
 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Vaxchora is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Vaxchora are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded 
as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with 
the use of Vaxchora. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
•  None 
Important potential risks 
•  Medication errors 
Missing information 
•  Use during pregnancy 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risks: 
None 
Important potential risks: 
Medication errors 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Medication errors have been reported in the post-market period. 
These concern instances where the subject has eaten/drunk at 
inappropriate time points, administration of expired product and 
administration of product without buffer.  In addition to the 
medication errors mentioned above, the following can occur: 
-  Wrong storage of the product (product should be stored 
in a refrigerator) 
-  Vaccine is not administered within the allotted time after 
preparation  
- 
Eating or drinking less than one hour before and after 
administration of the vaccine. 
Additional challenges for children 2 to < 6 years, such 
as discarding more than half of the buffer solution prior 
to adding the vaccine sachet, adding more than 1 g of 
Stevia or 4 g sucrose and challenges in getting the child 
to ingest the entire vaccine dosage.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
• 
Patients with inability to read or understand label 
• 
• 
Patients  failure  to  read  package  insert,  although  they 
possess adequate reading levels 
Inadequate instructions given by health care providers 
•  Children 2- < 6years may be at increased risk 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.6 
• 
PL section 2, 3, 5 
•  Medicinal product subject to medical prescription  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Additional risk minimisation measures will include a patient guide 
containing  key  messages  and  administration  highlights 
(especially relating to changes in vaccine preparation and use in 
children 2 to <6 years). Also, a health care professional’s guide 
(checklist) for assisting the provider with instructing patients will 
be provided. 
Missing information 
Use during pregnancy  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.6 
• 
PL section 2 
•  Medicinal product subject to medical prescription  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation  
Additional 
activities 
pharmacovigilance 
None at this time (see III.2) 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
None at this time.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
In September 2016, a pregnancy registry was initiated in the US (PXVX-VC-200-PR). The study 
enrolled one subject; the outcome of that pregnancy was unremarkable. In September 2021, the 
pregnancy registry was closed and a case report form was submitted to the FDA. The closure of the 
PAM has been considered acceptable during the assessment of the PSUR 
EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010862/202106 (PRAC Assessment report EMA/PRAC/775310/2021). 
 
 
 
 
