EMA/859285/2015  
EMEA/H/C/003982 
EPAR summary for the public 
Vaxelis 
Diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (acellular, component), hepatitis B (rDNA), 
poliomyelitis (inactivated) and Haemophilus type b conjugate vaccine 
(adsorbed) 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Vaxelis. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Vaxelis. 
For practical information about using Vaxelis, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Vaxelis and what is it used for? 
Vaxelis is a vaccine containing active substances derived from diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and 
Haemophilus influenzae type-b bacteria, the hepatitis B virus, and inactivated polioviruses. It is used in 
babies and toddlers aged from six weeks to protect against the following infectious diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
diphtheria (a highly contagious disease that affects the throat and skin, and can cause damage to 
the heart and other organs); 
tetanus (lockjaw, usually caused by infection of a wound); 
pertussis (whooping cough); 
•  hepatitis B (a viral liver infection); 
• 
• 
poliomyelitis (polio, a disease that affects the nerves and can lead to muscle weakness or 
paralysis); 
invasive diseases (such as pneumonia and meningitis) caused by H. influenzae type-b bacteria 
(Hib). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Vaxelis used? 
Vaxelis is available in pre-filled syringes as a suspension for injection. It can only be obtained with a 
prescription. Vaccination with Vaxelis should be carried out according to official recommendations. 
The recommended initial vaccination schedule is either two or three doses, given at least one month 
apart to children aged over six weeks. A booster dose should be given at least six months after the last 
of these initial doses. Vaxelis or an appropriate combination of other vaccines can be used for the 
booster dose. Vaxelis is given by injection into a muscle, normally in the upper thigh or the shoulder. 
For further information, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Vaxelis work? 
Vaxelis is a vaccine. Vaccines work by ‘teaching’ the immune system (the body’s natural defences) to 
defend itself against diseases. Vaxelis contains small amounts of materials derived from the viruses 
and bacteria it protects against. 
When a child is given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the materials from the bacteria and 
viruses as foreign and makes antibodies against them. The immune system will then be able to 
produce antibodies quickly when the person is naturally exposed to the bacteria or viruses. This helps 
to protect against the diseases that these bacteria and viruses cause. 
The vaccine is ‘adsorbed’ on aluminium compounds. This means that some of the active substances are 
fixed onto minute particles of aluminium compounds. This improves the ability to produce antibodies.  
What benefits of Vaxelis have been shown in studies? 
Vaxelis has been studied in two main studies involving more than 2,500 infants and toddlers over six 
weeks of age who were given either two or three doses of the vaccine during their first six months of 
life. They then received a booster dose shortly after their first birthday. The effects of Vaxelis were 
compared with those of another vaccine, Infanrix hexa, designed to protect against the same six 
diseases as Vaxelis. In these studies, children also received other vaccines according to local 
vaccination schedules to protect against other childhood diseases such as rotavirus gastroenteritis, 
measles, mumps, rubella and varicella. The main measure of effectiveness was the production of 
antibody levels known to be protective against diphtheria, tetanus, poliomyelitis, hepatitis B and H. 
influenzae type b infections and expected to protect against pertussis. 
Both studies showed that Vaxelis produces satisfactory levels of antibodies to protect against all of 
these six diseases in between 90 and 100% of children who completed the course of vaccination with 
Vaxelis.  
What are the risks associated with Vaxelis? 
The most common side effects with Vaxelis include pain, swelling and redness at the site of injection, 
irritability, crying, sleepiness, fever, reduced appetite and vomiting. For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Vaxelis, see the package leaflet. 
Vaxelis must not be used in children who have ever had an allergic reaction to Vaxelis or a vaccine 
containing the same components, including substances used during the manufacture of the vaccine 
and which may be found at extremely low levels (such as the antibiotics neomycin or streptomycin). It 
must not be used in children who have ever had encephalopathy (a brain disease) of unknown cause 
within seven days of receiving a vaccine containing pertussis components. It must not be used in 
children who have an uncontrolled or severe illness affecting the brain or nervous system, such as 
Vaxelis  
EMA/859285/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
uncontrolled epilepsy (fits), unless the condition has stabilised with treatment and the benefit of 
vaccination clearly outweighs the risk. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vaxelis approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Vaxelis’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The Committee 
considered that Vaxelis has been shown to produce satisfactory antibody levels against diphtheria, 
tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B virus, polioviruses and Hib. These antibody levels have been previously 
shown to protect against these diseases. With regard to safety, the CHMP considered that overall its 
safety profile is similar to other vaccines.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vaxelis? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Vaxelis is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Vaxelis, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Vaxelis 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Vaxelis on 15 February 2016. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Vaxelis can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Vaxelis, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2016. 
Vaxelis  
EMA/859285/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
