EMA/804710/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005477 
Vaxneuvance (pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate 
vaccine, 15-valent, adsorbed) 
An overview of Vaxneuvance and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vaxneuvance and what is it used for? 
Vaxneuvance is a vaccine used to protect against three types of infections caused by the bacterium 
Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae): 
• 
• 
• 
acute otitis media (ear infection), in children aged from 6 weeks to less than 18 years 
pneumonia (infection of the lungs), in adults and children from 6 weeks of age; 
invasive disease in adults and children from 6 weeks of age. (Invasive disease occurs when the 
bacterium spreads through the body, causing conditions such as septicaemia (blood infection) and 
meningitis (infection of the membranes around the brain and spine)). 
Vaxneuvance contains parts from 15 different types of the S. pneumoniae bacterium. It also contains 
an adjuvant, a substance containing aluminium, to stimulate a better immune response.  
How is Vaxneuvance used? 
Vaxneuvance is given as injections in the muscle of the thigh in infants and the upper arm in older 
children and adults. The number of doses for children depends on their age and previous vaccination 
status. and should be based on official recommendations. People from 18 years of age require only one 
dose. 
The vaccine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Vaxneuvance, 
see the package leaflet or contact your healthcare provider. 
How does Vaxneuvance work? 
Vaccines work by ‘teaching’ the immune system (the body’s natural defences) how to defend itself 
against a disease. When a person is given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the parts of the 
bacterium contained in the vaccine as ‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. The immune 
system will then be able to produce antibodies more quickly when it is exposed to the bacterium again. 
This helps to protect against the disease.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Vaxneuvance contains small amounts of polysaccharides (a type of sugar) extracted from the ‘capsule’ 
that surrounds the S. pneumoniae bacterium. These polysaccharides have been purified, then 
‘conjugated’ (attached) to a carrier protein to help the immune system recognise them. The vaccine is 
also ‘adsorbed’ (fixed) onto an aluminium compound to enhance the immune response. 
Vaxneuvance contains the polysaccharides from 15 different types of S. pneumoniae (serotypes 1, 3, 
4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F, 22F, 23F and 33F).  
What benefits of Vaxneuvance have been shown in studies? 
The ability of Vaxneuvance to produce antibodies that can protect against S. pneumoniae infection in 
adults was shown in two main studies comparing the immune response measured 30 days after a 
single dose of Vaxneuvance with that caused by a single dose of a similar vaccine authorised in the EU 
(Prevenar 13) that contains 13 of the 15 different types of the S. pneumoniae bacterium contained in 
Vaxneuvance.   
In the first study, involving 1,205 adults aged 50 and above, 52% to 81% of the 602 participants who 
were given Vaxneuvance had at least four times more antibodies against the 15 different types of S. 
pneumoniae than before vaccination. This response was comparable to that seen in the 600 
participants who were given Prevenar 13. 
The second study involved 1,515 adults aged 18 to 49 years (including individuals at increased risk of 
pneumococcal disease). Of the 1,133 participants who were given Vaxneuvance, 51.5% to 87.5% had 
at least four times more antibodies for the 15 different types than before vaccination. This immune 
response was comparable to that seen in the 379 patients who were given Prevenar 13. 
In children, the ability of Vaxneuvance to trigger the production of antibodies was assessed in two 
main studies involving 2,904 healthy infants 6 weeks of age and older. In these studies, Vaxneuvance 
was as effective as Prevenar 13 at triggering antibody production for the 13 shared serotypes . 
What are the risks associated with Vaxneuvance? 
The most common side effects with Vaxneuvance in children aged 6 weeks to less than 2 years of age 
(which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are irritability, sleepiness, reduced appetite, fever as well 
as reddening, hardening, swelling and pain at the site of injection. 
The most common side effects in adults and children aged 2 years and above are tiredness, muscle 
pain, fever and headache, as well as pain, swelling and reddening of the skin at the site of injection. 
Vaxneuvance must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to diphtheria toxoid (a 
weakened toxin from the bacterium that causes diphtheria).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Vaxneuvance, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vaxneuvance authorised in the EU? 
Vaxneuvance was shown to cause an immune response to different types of S. pneumoniae. This 
reaction is comparable to that caused by another authorised pneumococcal conjugate vaccine. It is 
therefore reasonable to conclude that Vaxneuvance can provide similar protection. Vaxneuvance also 
contains two types of S.pneumoniae not contained in the other vaccine. In addition, its most common 
side effects are mild and manageable. Therefore, the European Medicines Agency decided that 
Vaxneuvance’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Vaxneuvance (pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine, 15-valent, adsorbed)    
EMA/804710/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vaxneuvance? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vaxneuvance have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vaxneuvance are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Vaxneuvance are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vaxneuvance 
Vaxneuvance received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 December 2021. 
Further information on Vaxneuvance can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Vaxneuvance.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2022. 
Vaxneuvance (pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine, 15-valent, adsorbed)    
EMA/804710/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
