ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Vaxzevria suspension for injection
COVID-19 Vaccine (ChAdOx1-S [recombinant])
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
This is a multidose vial which contains 10 doses of 0.5 ml (see section 6.5).
One dose (0.5 ml) contains: 
Chimpanzee Adenovirus encoding the SARS-CoV-2 Spike glycoprotein (ChAdOx1-S)*, not less than 
2.5 × 108 infectious units (Inf.U)
*Produced in genetically modified human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells and by recombinant 
DNA technology.
This product contains genetically modified organisms (GMOs).
Excipient with known effect
Each dose (0.5 ml) contains approximately 2 mg of ethanol.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Suspension for injection (injection).
The suspension is colourless to slightly brown, clear to slightly opaque with a pH of 6.6.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Vaxzevria is indicated for active immunisation to prevent COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2, in 
individuals 18 years of age and older.
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations. 
2
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Posology
Individuals 18 years of age and older
The Vaxzevria primary vaccination course consists of two separate doses of 0.5 ml each. The second 
dose should be administered between 4 and 12 weeks (28 to 84 days) after the first dose (see 
section 5.1).
A booster dose (third dose) of 0.5 ml may be given to individuals who completed the primary 
vaccination course with Vaxzevria or an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). The 
third dose should be administered at least 3 months after completing the primary vaccination course.
Elderly population
No dose adjustment is required. See also section 5.1.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Vaxzevria in children and adolescents (less than 18 years of age) have not 
yet been established. No data are available.
Method of administration
Vaxzevria is for intramuscular injection only, preferably in the deltoid muscle of the upper arm.
Do not inject the vaccine intravascularly, subcutaneously or intradermally.
The vaccine should not be mixed in the same syringe with any other vaccines or medicinal products.
For precautions to be taken before administering the vaccine, see section 4.4.
For instructions on handling and disposal, see section 6.6.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Individuals who have experienced thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS) following 
vaccination with Vaxzevria (see section 4.4).
Individuals who have previously experienced episodes of capillary leak syndrome (see also 
section 4.4).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis
Events of anaphylaxis have been reported. Appropriate medical treatment and supervision should 
always be readily available in case of an anaphylactic event following the administration of the 
vaccine. Close observation for at least 15 minutes is recommended following vaccination. An 
additional dose of the vaccine should not be given to those who have experienced anaphylaxis to a 
previous dose of Vaxzevria.
3
Anxiety-related reactions
Anxiety-related reactions, including vasovagal reactions (syncope), hyperventilation or stress-related 
reactions may occur in association with vaccination as a psychogenic response to the needle injection. 
It is important that precautions are in place to avoid injury from fainting.
Concurrent illness
Vaccination should be postponed in individuals suffering from an acute severe febrile illness or acute 
infection. However, the presence of a minor infection and/or low-grade fever should not delay 
vaccination.
Coagulation disorders
 Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome: Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS), in some cases accompanied by bleeding, has been observed very rarely following 
vaccination with Vaxzevria. This includes severe cases presenting as venous thrombosis, including 
unusual sites such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein thrombosis, as well as 
arterial thrombosis, concomitant with thrombocytopenia. Some cases had a fatal outcome. The 
majority of these cases occurred within the first three weeks following vaccination. The reporting 
rates after the second dose are lower compared to after the first dose. See also section 4.3.
TTS requires specialised clinical management. Healthcare professionals should consult applicable 
guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g., haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to diagnose 
and treat this condition.
 Cerebrovascular venous and sinus thrombosis: Events of cerebrovascular venous and sinus 
thrombosis without thrombocytopenia have been observed very rarely following vaccination with 
Vaxzevria. Some cases had a fatal outcome. The majority of these cases occurred within the first 
four weeks following vaccination. This information should be considered for individuals at 
increased risk for cerebrovascular venous and sinus thrombosis. These events may require 
different treatment approaches than TTS and healthcare professionals should consult applicable 
guidance.
 Venous thromboembolism: Venous thromboembolism (VTE) has been observed following 
vaccination with Vaxzevria and should be considered for individuals at increased risk of VTE.
 Thrombocytopenia: Cases of thrombocytopenia, including immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), have 
been reported after receiving Vaxzevria, typically within the first four weeks after vaccination. 
Very rarely, these presented with very low platelet levels (<20,000 per µl) and/or were associated 
with bleeding. Some of these cases occurred in individuals with a history of immune 
thrombocytopenia. Cases with fatal outcome have been reported. If an individual has a history of a 
thrombocytopenic disorder, such as immune thrombocytopenia, the risk of developing low platelet 
levels should be considered before administering the vaccine and platelet monitoring is 
recommended after vaccination.
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention if they 
develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, leg pain, persistent abdominal 
pain following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with neurological symptoms including severe or 
persistent headaches, blurred vision, confusion or seizures after vaccination, or who experiences 
spontaneous bleeding, skin bruising (petechia) beyond the site of vaccination after a few days, should 
seek prompt medical attention.
Individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia within three weeks after vaccination with Vaxzevria, 
should be actively investigated for signs of thrombosis. Similarly, individuals who present with 
thrombosis within three weeks of vaccination should be evaluated for thrombocytopenia.
4
Risk of bleeding with intramuscular administration
As with other intramuscular injections, the vaccine should be given with caution in individuals 
receiving anticoagulant therapy or those with thrombocytopenia or any coagulation disorder (such as 
haemophilia) because bleeding or bruising may occur following an intramuscular administration in 
these individuals.
Capillary leak syndrome
Very rare cases of capillary leak syndrome (CLS) have been reported in the first days after vaccination 
with Vaxzevria. A history of CLS was apparent in some of the cases. Fatal outcome has been reported. 
CLS is a rare disorder characterised by acute episodes of oedema mainly affecting the limbs, 
hypotension, haemoconcentration and hypoalbuminaemia. Patients with an acute episode of CLS 
following vaccination require prompt recognition and treatment. Intensive supportive therapy is 
usually warranted. Individuals with a known history of CLS should not be vaccinated with this 
vaccine. See also section 4.3.
Neurological events
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) and transverse myelitis (TM) have been reported very rarely 
following vaccination with Vaxzevria. Healthcare professionals should be alert of GBS and TM signs 
and symptoms to ensure correct diagnosis, in order to initiate adequate supportive care and treatment, 
and to rule out other causes.
Risk of severe adverse events after a booster dose
The risk of severe adverse events (such as coagulation disorders including thrombosis with
thrombocytopenia syndrome, VTE, CLS, GBS and TM) after a booster dose of Vaxzevria has not yet 
been characterised. 
Immunocompromised individuals
The efficacy, safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine have not been assessed in 
immunocompromised individuals, including those receiving immunosuppressant therapy. The efficacy 
of Vaxzevria may be lower in immunosuppressed individuals.
Duration of protection
The duration of protection afforded by the vaccine is unknown as it is still being determined by 
ongoing clinical studies.
Limitations of vaccine effectiveness
Protection starts from approximately 3 weeks after the first dose of Vaxzevria. Individuals may not be 
fully protected until 15 days after the second dose is administered. As with all vaccines, vaccination 
with Vaxzevria may not protect all vaccine recipients (see section 5.1).
Excipients
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 0.5 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially “sodium-free”.
Ethanol
This medicinal product contains 2 mg of alcohol (ethanol) per 0.5 ml dose. The small amount of 
alcohol in this medicinal product will not have any noticeable effects.
5
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
No interaction studies have been performed.
Concomitant administration of Vaxzevria with other vaccines has not been studied.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There is limited experience with use of Vaxzevria in pregnant women.
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryo/foetal development, parturition or post-natal development (see section 5.3).
Administration of Vaxzevria during pregnancy should only be considered when the potential benefits 
outweigh any potential risks for the mother and foetus.
Breastfeeding
It is unknown whether Vaxzevria is excreted in human milk.
In animal studies, lactational transfer of anti-SARS-CoV-2 S antibodies from maternal female mice to 
pups was observed (see section 5.3).
Fertility
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to fertility (see 
section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Vaxzevria has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, some of 
the adverse reactions mentioned under section 4.8 may temporarily affect the ability to drive or use 
machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Primary vaccination course
The overall safety of Vaxzevria is based on an analysis of pooled data from four clinical studies phase 
I/II, II/III and III conducted in the United Kingdom, Brazil, and South Africa, and of data from an 
additional phase III clinical study conducted in the United States, Peru and Chile. At the time of the 
analysis, a total of 56,601 participants ≥18 years old had been randomised and of these, 33,846
received at least one dose of Vaxzevria and 32,030 received two doses.
Participants continued to be followed for safety regardless of unblinding or receipt of unblinded 
vaccination. For the four clinical studies performed in the United Kingdom, Brazil, and South Africa, 
longer follow-up of ≥12 months (median 13.0 months) from first dose is available for 
10,247 participants who received Vaxzevria.
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are injection site tenderness (68%), injection site pain
(58%), headache (53%), fatigue (53%), myalgia (44%), malaise (44%), pyrexia (includes feverishness 
[33%] and fever ≥38°C [8%]), chills (32%), arthralgia (27%) and nausea (22%). The majority of these 
6
adverse reactions were mild to moderate in severity and usually resolved within a few days of 
vaccination.
Very rare cases of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome have been reported post-marketing 
within the first three weeks following vaccination (see section 4.4).
Following vaccination with Vaxzevria, recipients may experience multiple adverse reactions occurring 
at the same time (for example, myalgia/arthralgia, headache, chills, pyrexia and malaise).
When compared with the first dose, adverse reactions reported after the second dose were milder and 
less frequent.
Reactogenicity was generally milder and reported less frequently in the population of older adults 
(≥65 years old).
The safety profile was consistent across participants with or without prior evidence of SARS-CoV-2 
infection at baseline.
Booster dose (third dose)
The safety profile observed in individuals who received a booster dose (third dose) was consistent 
with the known safety profile of Vaxzevria. No new safety concerns, as compared with adverse 
reactions reported for the primary vaccination course with Vaxzevria, have been identified in 
individuals receiving a booster dose of Vaxzevria.
Booster dose (third dose) following primary vaccination with Vaxzevria
In study D7220C00001, 373 participants who had previously received a 2-dose primary vaccination 
course with Vaxzevria received a single booster dose (third dose) of Vaxzevria. Median time between 
the second dose and the booster dose was 8.8 months (269 days). 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions in previously Vaxzevria vaccinated participants were
injection site tenderness (54%), fatigue (42%), injection site pain (38%), headache (34%), myalgia
(24%), and malaise (22%). The majority of these adverse reactions were mild to moderate in severity 
and usually resolved within a few days of vaccination.
Booster dose (third dose) following primary vaccination with an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine
In study D7220C00001, 322 participants who had previously received a 2-dose primary vaccination 
course with an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine received a single booster dose (third dose) of Vaxzevria. 
Median time between the second dose and the booster dose was 4.0 months (120 days). 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions in previously mRNA vaccinated participants were
injection site tenderness (71%), fatigue (57%), headache (52%), injection site pain (50%), myalgia
(47%), malaise (42%), chills (29%), and nausea (22%). The majority of these adverse reactions were 
mild to moderate in severity and usually resolved within a few days of vaccination.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The safety profile presented below is based on an analysis of data from five clinical studies which 
included participants ≥18 years old (pooled data from four clinical studies conducted in the United 
Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa, and data from one clinical study conducted in the United States, 
Peru and Chile) and on data from post-authorisation experience.
Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are organised by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Frequencies 
of occurrence of adverse reactions are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); 
7
uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1000); very rare (<1/10,000) and not known 
(cannot be estimated from available data); within each SOC, preferred terms are arranged by 
decreasing frequency and then by decreasing seriousness.
Table 1. Adverse drug reactions
MedDRA SOC
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Immune system disorders
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Nervous system disorders
Ear and labyrinth disorders
Vascular disorders
Frequency
Common
Uncommon
Not known
Not known
Uncommon
Very common
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
Not known
Uncommon
Very rare
Not known
Gastrointestinal disorders
Very common
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Uncommon
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders
General disorders and administration 
site conditions
Not known
Very common
Common
Uncommon 
Very common
Common
Adverse Reactions
Thrombocytopeniaa
Lymphadenopathy
Immune thrombocytopeniab
Anaphylaxis
Hypersensitivity
Decreased appetite
Headachec
Dizziness
Somnolence
Lethargy
Paraesthesia
Hypoaesthesia
Facial paralysisd
Guillain-Barré syndrome
Transverse myelitis
Tinnitus
Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia
syndromee
Capillary leak syndrome
Cerebrovascular venous and sinus 
thrombosisb
Venous thromboembolismb
Nausea
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea
Abdominal pain
Hyperhidrosis
Pruritus
Rash
Urticaria
Angioedema
Cutaneous vasculitis
Myalgia
Arthralgia
Pain in extremity
Muscle spasms
Injection site tenderness, pain,
warmth, pruritus, bruisingf
Fatigue
Malaise
Feverishness, fever
Chills
Injection site swelling, erythema
Influenza-like illness
Asthenia
a In clinical studies, transient mild thrombocytopenia was commonly reported (see section 4.4).
b Cases have been reported post-marketing (see also section 4.4).
c Headache includes migraine (uncommon).
d Based on data from the clinical study conducted in the United States, Peru and Chile. Through the safety follow-
up period to 05 March 2021, facial paralysis (or palsy) was reported by five participants in the Vaxzevria group. 
8
Onset was 8 and 15 days after first dose and 4, 17, and 25 days after the second dose. All events were reported to 
be non-serious. No cases of facial paralysis were reported in the placebo group.
e Severe and very rare cases of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome have been reported post-marketing. 
These included venous thrombosis such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein thrombosis, as well 
as arterial thrombosis (see section 4.4).
f Injection site bruising includes injection site haematoma (uncommon).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V and include batch/Lot number if available.
4.9 Overdose
There is no specific treatment for an overdose with Vaxzevria. In the event of an overdose, the 
individual should be monitored and provided with symptomatic treatment as appropriate.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Vaccines, Covid-19 vaccines, ATC code: J07BN02
Mechanism of action
Vaxzevria is a monovalent vaccine composed of a single recombinant, replication-deficient 
chimpanzee adenovirus (ChAdOx1) vector encoding the S glycoprotein of SARS-CoV-2. The 
SARS-CoV-2 S immunogen in the vaccine is expressed in the trimeric pre-fusion conformation; the 
coding sequence has not been modified in order to stabilise the expressed S-protein in the pre-fusion 
conformation. Following administration, the S glycoprotein of SARS-CoV-2 is expressed locally 
stimulating neutralising antibody and cellular immune responses, which may contribute to protection 
to COVID-19.
Clinical efficacy
Analysis of data from Study D8110C00001
The clinical efficacy of Vaxzevria has been evaluated based on an analysis of Study D8110C00001: a 
randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled phase III study conducted in the United States, Peru 
and Chile. The study excluded participants with severe and/or uncontrolled cardiovascular, 
gastrointestinal, liver, renal, endocrine/metabolic disease, and neurological illnesses; as well as those 
with severe immunosuppression, pregnant women and participants with a known history of 
SARS-CoV-2 infection. All participants are planned to be followed for up to 12 months, for 
assessments of efficacy against COVID-19 disease.
Participants ≥18 years of age received two doses (5 × 1010 viral particles per dose corresponding to not 
less than 2.5 × 108 infectious units) of Vaxzevria (N=17,662) or saline placebo (N=8,550), 
administered via IM injection on Day 1 and Day 29 (-3 to +7 days). The median dose interval was 
29 days and the majority of participants (95.7% and 95.3% for Vaxzevria and placebo, respectively) 
received the second dose ≥26 to ≤36 days after dose 1.
Baseline demographics were well balanced across the Vaxzevria and placebo groups. Of the 
participants who received Vaxzevria, 79.1% were aged 18 to 64 years (with 20.9% aged 65 or older) 
and 43.8% of subjects were female. Of those randomised, 79.3% were White, 7.9% were Black, 4.2% 
were Asian, 4.2% were American Indian or Alaska Native. A total of 10,376 (58.8%) participants had 
9
at least one pre-existing comorbidity, defined as: chronic kidney disease, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, lower immune health because of a solid organ transplant, history of obesity 
(BMI >30), serious heart conditions, sickle cell disease, type 1 or 2 diabetes, asthma, dementia, 
cerebrovascular diseases, cystic fibrosis, high blood pressure, liver disease, pulmonary fibrosis, 
thalassemia or history of smoking. At the time of analysis the median follow-up time post-dose 2 was 
61 days.
Final determination of COVID-19 cases were made by an adjudication committee. Overall vaccine 
efficacy and efficacy by key age groups are presented in Table 2.
Table 2. Vaxzevria efficacy against symptomatic COVID-19 illness in Study D8110C00001
N
Vaxzevria
Number 
of 
COVID-
19 casesa, 
n (%)
Incidence 
rate of 
COVID-19 
per 1,000 
person-years
N
Placebo
Number 
of 
COVID-
19 casesa, 
n (%)
Incidence 
rate of 
COVID-19 
per 1,000 
person-years
17,662
73 (0.4)
35.69
8,550
130 (1.5)
137.23
13,966
68 (0.5)
40.47
6,738
116 (1.7)
148.99
3,696
5 (0.1)
13.69
1,812
14 (0.8)
82.98
Vaccine 
efficacy % 
(95% CI)b
74.0
(65.3, 80.5)
72.8
(63.4, 79.9)
83.5
(54.2, 94.1)
Overall 
(age ≥18 
years old)
Age 18 
to 64 
years
old
Age ≥65 
years 
old
N = Number of subjects included in each group; n = Number of subjects having a confirmed event; 
CI = Confidence Interval.
a Symptomatic COVID-19 requiring positive Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and 
at least 1 respiratory sign or symptom, or at least 2 other systemic signs or symptoms, as defined in the protocol.
b The confidence intervals were not adjusted for multiplicity.
Severe or critical symptomatic COVID-19 illness was assessed as a key secondary endpoint. Among 
all subjects in the per protocol set, no cases of severe or critical symptomatic COVID-19 were 
reported in the vaccine group compared with 8 cases reported in the placebo group. There were 
9 hospitalised cases, the 8 cases that were adjudicated as severe or critical symptomatic COVID-19, 
and one additional case in the vaccine group. The majority of the severe or critical symptomatic 
COVID-19 cases fulfilled only the oxygen saturation (SpO2) criterion for severe disease (≤93% on 
room air).
In individuals with or without prior evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection, the vaccine efficacy of 
Vaxzevria (≥15 days post-dose 2) was 73.7% (95% CI: 63.1; 80.1); 76 (0.4%) vs 135 (1.5%) cases of 
COVID-19 for Vaxzevria (N=18,563) and placebo (N=9,031), respectively.
Participants with one or more comorbidities who received Vaxzevria (≥15 days post-dose 2) had an 
efficacy of 75.2% (95% CI: 64.2; 82.9) and participants without comorbidities had a vaccine efficacy 
of 71.8% (95% CI: 55.5, 82.1).
In the 6-month follow-up analysis, updated efficacy analyses were performed with additional 
confirmed COVID-19 cases accrued during blinded placebo-controlled follow-up, with a median 
follow-up of 78 days in participants who received Vaxzevria and 71 days in participants who received 
placebo. Overall vaccine efficacy against symptomatic COVID-19 illness was 67.0% (95% CI: 58.9, 
73.5) with 141 (0.8%) cases of COVID-19 reported in participants who had received two doses of 
Vaxzevria (N=17,617) and 184 (2.2%) cases reported in participants who had received placebo 
(N=8,528). In participants aged 18 to 64 years there were 135 (1.0%) cases in the Vaxzevria group 
10
(N=13,921) versus 165 (2.5%) cases in the placebo group (N=6,712), corresponding to a vaccine 
efficacy of 64.8% (95% CI: 55.7, 71.9). In participants ≥65 years old vaccine efficacy was 86.3% 
(95% CI: 65.8, 94.6) with 6 (0.2%) cases in the Vaxzevria group (N=3,696) versus 19 (1.1%) cases in 
the placebo group (N=1,816).
Analysis of pooled data from COV002 and COV003
The clinical efficacy of Vaxzevria has been evaluated based on an analysis of pooled data from two
randomised, blinded, controlled studies: a phase II/III study, COV002, in adults ≥18 years of age 
(including the elderly) in the UK; and a phase III study, COV003, in adults ≥18 years of age 
(including the elderly) in Brazil. The studies excluded participants with severe and/or uncontrolled 
cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, liver, renal, endocrine/metabolic disease, and neurological illnesses; 
as well as those with severe immunosuppression, pregnant women and participants with a known 
history of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Influenza vaccines could be administered 7 days before or after any 
dose of Vaxzevria.
In the pooled primary analysis for efficacy, participants ≥18 years of age received two doses 
(5 × 1010 viral particles per dose corresponding to not less than 2.5 × 108 infectious units) of Vaxzevria
(N=6,106) or control (meningococcal vaccine or saline) (N=6,090), administered via IM injection.
Because of logistical constraints, the interval between dose 1 and dose 2 ranged from 3 to 23 weeks
(21 to 159 days), with 86.1% of participants receiving their two doses within the interval of 4 to 
12 weeks (28 to 84 days).
Baseline demographics were well balanced across Vaxzevria and control treatment groups. In the 
pooled primary analysis, among the participants who received Vaxzevria with a dose interval of 
between 4 and 12 weeks, 87.0% of participants were 18 to 64 years old (with 13.0% aged 65 or older
and 2.8% aged 75 or older); 55.1% of subjects were female; 76.2% were White, 6.4% were Black and 
3.4% were Asian. A total of 2,068 (39.3%) participants had at least one pre-existing comorbidity 
(defined as a BMI ≥30 kg/m2, cardiovascular disorder, respiratory disease or diabetes). At the time of 
analysis, the median follow-up time post-dose 2 was 78 days.
Final determination of COVID-19 cases were made by an adjudication committee, who also assigned 
disease severity according to the WHO clinical progression scale. A total of 218 participants had 
SARS-CoV-2 virologically confirmed COVID-19 occurring ≥15 days post second dose with at least 
one COVID-19 symptom (objective fever (defined as ≥37.8°C), cough, shortness of breath, anosmia, 
or ageusia) and were without evidence of previous SARS-CoV-2 infection. Vaxzevria significantly 
decreased the incidence of COVID-19 compared to control (see Table 3).
Table 3. Vaxzevria efficacy against COVID-19 from COV002 and COV003a
Population
Licensing regimen
4 – 12 weeks
(28 to 84 days)
Vaxzevria
Control
N
Number of 
COVID-19 
cases, n (%)
N
Number of 
COVID-19 
cases, n (%)
5,258
64 (1.2)
5,210
154 (3.0)
Vaccine 
efficacy % 
(95% CI)b
59.5
(45.8, 69.7)
N = Number of subjects included in each group; n = Number of subjects having a confirmed event; CI = 
Confidence Interval.
a Efficacy endpoint was based on confirmed COVID-19 cases in subjects aged 18 years and over who were 
seronegative at baseline, who had received two doses and were on-study ≥15 days post second dose.
b CI not adjusted for multiplicity.
Vaccine efficacy was 62.6% (95% CI: 50.9; 71.5) in participants receiving two recommended doses
with any dose interval (ranging from 3 to 23 weeks), in a pre-specified analysis.
11
Regarding COVID-19 hospitalisation (WHO Severity grading ≥4) there were 0 (0.0%; N=5,258) cases 
of COVID-19 hospitalisation in participants who received two doses of Vaxzevria (≥15 days 
post-dose 2) as compared to 8 (0.2%; N=5,210) for control, including one severe case (WHO Severity 
grading ≥6), reported for control. In all participants who received at least one dose, as from 22 days 
post-dose 1, there were 0 (0.0%, N=8,032) cases of COVID-19 hospitalisation in participants who 
received Vaxzevria, as compared to 14 (0.2%, N=8,026), including one fatality, reported for control.
Participants who had one or more comorbidities had a vaccine efficacy of 58.3% (95% CI: 33.6; 73.9); 
25 (1.2%) vs 60 (2.9%) cases of COVID-19 for Vaxzevria (N=2,068) and control (N=2,040), 
respectively; which was similar to the vaccine efficacy observed in the overall population.
Evidence shows protection starts from approximately 3 weeks after first dose of vaccine. A second 
dose should be given at a 4 to 12-week interval after the first dose (see section 4.4).
Immunogenicity after booster dose
Study D7220C00001, immunogenicity of a booster dose (third dose) following primary vaccination 
with Vaxzevria or an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine
D7220C00001 is a phase II/III partially double-blind, active-controlled study in which 
373 participants ≥30 years old previously vaccinated with Vaxzevria, and 322 participants ≥30 years 
old previously vaccinated with an mRNA vaccine, received a single booster dose of Vaxzevria at least 
90 days after receiving the second dose of their primary vaccination course. Immunogenicity was 
assessed in 345 participants previously vaccinated with Vaxzevria and 296 participants previously 
vaccinated with an mRNA vaccine, all of whom were seronegative at baseline.
The effectiveness of Vaxzevria administered as a single booster dose in participants previously 
vaccinated with Vaxzevria was demonstrated by evaluating non-inferiority of the immune response of 
pseudoneutralising antibody titres against the ancestral strain compared to that elicited by a 2-dose 
primary vaccination course in a subset of matched participants in study D8110C00001.
Non-inferiority for GMT ratio was demonstrated when comparing pseudoneutralising antibody titres 
28 days after the booster dose to titres 28 days after the primary vaccination course (see Table 4).
Table 4. Neutralising antibody titres against the ancestral strain following booster dosing with 
Vaxzevria in participants previously vaccinated with Vaxzevria
28 days after 
primary vaccination 
course with 
Vaxzevriaa
508
242.80
n
GMT c
28 days after 
booster dose
GMT ratiob
Met
non-inferiority 
objective (Y/N)
329
246.45
329/508
1.02
Yd
(95% CI)
(224.82, 262.23)
(227.39, 267.12)
(0.90, 1.14)
n = Number of subjects in analysis; GMT = Geometric mean neutralising antibody titre; CI = Confidence 
interval; GMT Ratio = Geometric mean titre ratio.
a. Based on analyses from a matched cohort of participants in study D8110C00001.
b. GMT 28 days after booster dose to GMT 28 days after the second dose of the primary vaccination course.
c. Reported results have been adjusted using an ANCOVA model including fixed-effect terms for visit window, 
time since previous vaccination (for booster), baseline comorbidities, sex, age and a random subject effect.
d. Non-inferiority was demonstrated if the lower limit of the 2-sided 95% CI of the GMT ratio of the comparator 
group and the reference group is >0.67.
Vaxzevria was also shown to be effective in eliciting antibody responses in participants who had 
previously received primary vaccination with an mRNA vaccine. In these participants, a single booster 
dose of Vaxzevria resulted in increased humoral responses, with geometric mean fold rise (GMFR) of 
12
3.76 (95% CI: 3.25, 4.35) in neutralising antibody titres against the ancestral strain from pre-booster to 
28 days after the booster dose.
Elderly population
Study D8110C00001 assessed the efficacy of Vaxzevria in 5,508 individuals ≥65 years of age; 3,696 
who received Vaxzevria and 1,812 who received placebo. The efficacy of Vaxzevria was consistent 
between elderly (≥65 years) and younger adult subjects (18-64 years).
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with
Vaxzevria in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in prevention of COVID-19 (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Not applicable.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
In a repeat-dose toxicity study in mice, IM administration of Vaxzevria was well tolerated. Non-
adverse, mixed and/or mononuclear cell inflammation was observed in the subcutaneous tissues and 
skeletal muscle of the administration sites and adjacent sciatic nerve consistent with the anticipated 
findings after IM injection of vaccines. There were no findings in the administration sites or sciatic 
nerves at the end of the recovery period, indicating complete recovery of the Vaxzevria-related 
inflammation.
Genotoxicity/Carcinogenicity
Neither genotoxicity nor carcinogenicity studies were performed. The components of the vaccine are 
not expected to have genotoxic potential.
Reproductive toxicity
In a reproductive and development toxicity study, Vaxzevria did not induce maternal or developmental 
toxicity following maternal exposure during the pre-mating, gestation or lactating periods. In this 
study, vaccine elicited detectable anti-SARS-CoV-2 S-glycoprotein maternal antibodies were 
transferred to the foetuses and pups, indicating placental and lactational transfer, respectively. No 
Vaxzevria data are available on vaccine excretion in milk.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
L-Histidine
L-Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate
Magnesium chloride hexahydrate
Polysorbate 80 (E 433)
Ethanol
Sucrose
Sodium chloride
Disodium edetate (dihydrate)
Water for injections
13
6.2
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products or diluted.
6.3
Shelf life
Unopened vial
9 months when stored in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C)
The following information is intended to guide healthcare professionals only in case of an unforeseen 
temporary temperature excursion. It is not a recommended storage or shipping condition. 
The shelf-life of unopened vials includes the following unforeseen excursions from refrigerated 
storage (2°C – 8°C) for a single period of:
-
-
12 hours up to 30°C
72 hours down to -3°C
Unopened vials must always be returned to refrigerated storage (2°C – 8°C) following a temperature 
excursion.
The occurrence of a temperature excursion for unopened vials does not impact how the vials should be 
stored after first opening (first vial puncture).
Opened vial
Chemical and physical in-use stability have been demonstrated for 6 hours when stored at 
temperatures up to 30°C and for 48 hours when stored in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). After this time, 
the vial must be discarded. Do not return it to the refrigerator after storage outside the refrigerator.
Alternatively, an opened vial may be stored in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C) for a maximum of 48 hours if 
it is immediately returned to the refrigerator following each puncture.
From a microbiological point of view, after first opening the vaccine should be used immediately. If 
the vaccine is not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the 
user.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C).
Do not freeze.
Keep vials in outer carton in order to protect from light.
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Multidose vial
10-dose vial
5 ml of suspension in a 10-dose vial (clear type I glass) with stopper (elastomeric with aluminium 
overseal). Each vial contains 10 doses of 0.5 ml. Pack sizes of 10 multidose vials.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Handling instructions and administration
14
This vaccine should be handled by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique to ensure the 
sterility of each dose.
Do not use this vaccine after the expiry date which is stated on the label after EXP.
Unopened multidose vial should be stored in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze.
Keep the vials in outer carton in order to protect from light.
The vaccine should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration. Vaxzevria is a colourless to slightly brown, clear to slightly opaque suspension. 
Discard the vial if the suspension is discoloured or visible particles are observed. Do not shake. Do not 
dilute the suspension.
The vaccine should not be mixed in the same syringe with any other vaccines or medicinal products.
Each vaccine dose of 0.5 ml is withdrawn into a syringe for injection to be administered 
intramuscularly, preferably in the deltoid muscle of the upper arm. Use a new needle for 
administration, when possible.
It is normal for liquid to remain in the vial after withdrawing the final dose. An additional overfill is 
included in each vial to ensure that 10 doses (vial of 5 ml) of 0.5 ml can be delivered. Do not pool 
excess vaccine from multiple vials. Discard any unused vaccine.
From the time of vial opening (first needle puncture), use within 6 hours when stored at temperatures 
up to 30°C. After this time, the vial must be discarded. Do not return it to the refrigerator. 
Alternatively, an opened vial may be stored in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C) for a maximum of 48 hours if 
it is immediately returned to the refrigerator following each puncture.
Disposal
Any unused vaccine or waste material should be disposed of in compliance with the local guidance for 
pharmaceutical waste. Potential spills should be disinfected using agents with viricidal activity against 
adenovirus.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1529/002
10 multidose vials (10 doses per vial)
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 29 January 2021
Date of latest renewal: 31 October 2022
15
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu
16
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
17
A. MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance
Catalent Maryland, Inc
7555 Harmans Road
Harmans, MD 21077
United States
Oxford Biomedica (UK) Limited
Unit A
Plot 7000
Alec Issigonis Way
Oxford OX4 2ZY
United Kingdom
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
AstraZeneca Nijmegen B.V.
Lagelandseweg 78
Nijmegen, 6545CG
Netherlands
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.

Official batch release
In accordance with Article 114 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken 
by a state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose.
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
18
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
19
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
20
A. LABELLING
21
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON - TEN-DOSE VIAL, PACK OF 10 VIALS
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Vaxzevria suspension for injection
COVID-19 Vaccine (ChAdOx1-S [recombinant])
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
One dose (0.5 ml) contains not less than 2.5 × 108 infectious units.
Chimpanzee Adenovirus encoding the SARS-CoV-2 Spike glycoprotein ChAdOx1-S
This medicine contains genetically modified organisms.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: L-histidine, L-histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, magnesium chloride hexahydrate,
polysorbate 80 (E 433), ethanol, sucrose, sodium chloride, disodium edetate (dihydrate), water for 
injections.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Suspension for injection
10 multidose vials
(10 doses per vial - 0.5 ml per dose)
5 ml
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Intramuscular use
Read the package leaflet before use.
For more information, scan here or visit www.azcovid-19.com
QR code to be included
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
22
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Keep vials in outer carton in order to protect from light.
Do not freeze. Do not shake.
For information on the shelf life after first opening and additonal storage information, see the package 
leaflet.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
Dispose of in compliance with the local guidance for pharmaceutical waste.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1529/002
10 multidose vials (10 doses per vial)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
18.
PC
23
SN
NN
24
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL - TEN-DOSE VIAL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Vaxzevria injection
COVID-19 Vaccine (ChAdOx1-S [recombinant])
IM
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
10 doses of 0.5 ml
5 ml
6.
OTHER
AstraZeneca
25
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
26
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Vaxzevria suspension for injection
COVID-19 Vaccine (ChAdOx1-S [recombinant])
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully before the vaccine is given because it contains important 
information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1. What Vaxzevria is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you are given Vaxzevria
3.
4.
5.
6.
How Vaxzevria is given
Possible side effects
How to store Vaxzevria
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Vaxzevria is and what it is used for
Vaxzevria is used for preventing COVID-19 caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
Vaxzevria is given to adults aged 18 years and older.
The vaccine causes the immune system (the body’s natural defences) to produce antibodies and 
specialised white blood cells that work against the virus, so giving protection against COVID-19.
None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19.
2. What you need to know before you are given Vaxzevria
The vaccine must not be given:
-
If you are allergic to the active substance or any of the other ingredients of this vaccine (listed in 
section 6).
If you have had a blood clot occurring at the same time as having low levels of blood platelets 
(thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome, TTS) after receiving Vaxzevria.
If you have a previous diagnosis of capillary leak syndrome (a condition causing fluid leakage 
from small blood vessels).
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before you are given Vaxzevria:
-
If you have ever had a severe allergic reaction after any other vaccine injection or after you 
were given Vaxzevria in the past.
If you have ever fainted following any needle injection.
If you have a severe infection with a high temperature (over 38°C). However, you can have 
your vaccination if you have a mild fever or upper airway infection like a cold.
If you have a problem with bleeding or bruising, or if you are taking an anticoagulant medicine 
(to prevent blood clots).
-
-
-
-
-
27
-
-
-
-
If your immune system does not work properly (immunodeficiency) or you are taking medicines 
that weaken the immune system (such as high-dose corticosteroids, immunosuppressants or 
cancer medicines).
If you previously had Guillain-Barré syndrome (temporary loss of feeling and movement) after 
being given Vaxzevria.
If you previously had transverse myelitis (inflammation of the spinal cord) after being given 
Vaxzevria.
If you have risk factors for blood clots in your veins (venous thromboembolism (VTE)).
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
you are given the vaccine.
As with any vaccine, the 2-dose vaccination course of Vaxzevria may not fully protect all those who 
receive it. It is not known how long you will be protected for.
Blood disorders
Very rare blood clots in combination with low level of blood platelets, in some cases together with 
bleeding, has been observed following vaccination with Vaxzevria. This included some severe cases 
with blood clots in different or unusual locations (e.g., brain, bowel, liver, spleen) and excessive 
clotting or bleeding throughout the body. The majority of these cases occurred within the first three 
weeks following vaccination. Some cases had a fatal outcome. Fewer cases have been reported after 
the second dose compared to after the first dose.
Blood clots in the brain, not associated with low level of blood platelets have been observed very 
rarely following vaccination with Vaxzevria. The majority of these cases occurred within the first four 
weeks following vaccination. Some cases had a fatal outcome.
Blood clots in veins (venous thromboembolism (VTE)) have been observed following vaccination 
with Vaxzevria.
Very low levels of blood platelets (immune thrombocytopenia), that can be associated with bleeding, 
have been reported very rarely, usually within the first four weeks following vaccination with 
Vaxzevria.
Seek immediate medical attention if you develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, leg pain 
or persistent abdominal pain following vaccination (see section 4). 
Also, seek immediate medical attention if you experience after a few days following vaccination 
severe or persistent headaches, blurred vision, confusion or seizures (fits) after vaccination, or 
experience unexplained bleeding or skin bruising or pinpoint round spots beyond the site of 
vaccination which appears after a few days (see section 4).
Capillary leak syndrome
Very rare cases of capillary leak syndrome (CLS) have been reported following vaccination with 
Vaxzevria. Some affected patients had a previous diagnosis of CLS. CLS is a serious, potentially fatal 
condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels (capillaries) resulting in rapid swelling of the 
arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint (low blood pressure). Seek immediate medical 
attention if you develop these symptoms in the days following vaccination.
Neurological events
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS):
Seek immediate medical attention if you develop weakness and paralysis in the extremities that can 
progress to the chest and face (Guillain-Barré syndrome). This has been reported very rarely after 
vaccination with Vaxzevria.
28
Inflammation of the spinal cord (transverse myelitis, TM):
Seek immediate medical attention if you develop signs of weakness in the arms or legs, sensory 
symptoms (such as tingling, numbness, pain or loss of pain sensation) and urinary or bowel 
dysfunction. This has been reported very rarely after vaccination with Vaxzevria.
Risk of severe adverse events after a booster dose
The risk of severe adverse events (such as blood disorders including thrombosis with 
thrombocytopenia syndrome, VTE, CLS, GBS, TM) after a booster dose of Vaxzevria is unknown.
Children and adolescents
Vaxzevria is not recommended for children aged below 18 years. Currently there is not enough 
information available on the use of Vaxzevria in children and adolescents younger than 18 years of 
age.
Other medicines and Vaxzevria
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take, any other 
medicines or vaccines.
Pregnancy and breastfeeding
If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask
your doctor, pharmacist or nurse for advice before you receive this vaccine.
Driving and using machines
Some of the side effects of Vaxzevria listed in section 4 (Possible side effects) may temporarily reduce
your ability to drive and use machines. If you feel unwell after vaccination, do not drive or use 
machines. Wait until any effects of the vaccine have worn off before you drive or use machines.
Vaxzevria contains sodium and alcohol (ethanol)
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 0.5 ml dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
This medicine contains 2 mg of alcohol (ethanol) per 0.5 ml dose. The small amount of alcohol in this 
medicine will not have any noticeable effects.
3.
How Vaxzevria is given
Vaxzevria is given as an injection of 0.5 ml into a muscle (usually in the upper arm).
During and after each injection of the vaccine, your doctor, pharmacist or nurse will watch over you 
for around 15 minutes to monitor for signs of an allergic reaction.
Primary vaccination course
You will receive 2 injections of Vaxzevria. The second injection can be given between 4 and 
12 weeks after the first injection. You will be told when you need to return for your second injection. 
If you miss an appointment for your second injection of Vaxzevria
If you forget to go back at the scheduled time, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse for advice. It is 
important that you return for your second injection of Vaxzevria. If you miss a scheduled injection, 
you may not be fully protected against COVID-19.
Booster dose
You may receive a booster injection of Vaxzevria. The booster injection may be given at least 
3 months after you have completed the primary vaccination course with Vaxzevria or an mRNA
COVID-19 vaccine.
29
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
In clinical studies, most side effects were mild to moderate in nature and resolved within a few days. 
Fewer side effects were reported after the second dose.
After vaccination, you may have more than one side effect at the same time (for example, muscle/joint 
aches, headaches, chills and generally feeling unwell). If any of your symptoms are persistent, please 
seek advice from your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
Blood clots in combination with low levels of blood platelets (thrombosis with thrombocytopenia 
syndrome, TTS) have been reported very rarely, see section 2.
Get medical attention immediately if within three weeks of vaccination you get any of the following 
symptoms:
-
-
-
experience a severe or persistent headache, blurred vision, confusion or seizures (fits)
develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, leg pain or persistent abdominal pain
notice unusual skin bruising or pinpoint round spots beyond the site of vaccination
Get urgent medical attention if you get symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. Such reactions may 
include a combination of any of the following symptoms:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
feeling faint or light-headed 
changes in your heartbeat 
shortness of breath 
wheezing 
swelling of your lips, face, or throat 
hives or rash 
nausea or vomiting 
stomach pain
The following side effects may occur with Vaxzevria:
Very Common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
-
-
-
-
-
-
tenderness, pain, warmth, itching, or bruising where the injection is given
feeling tired (fatigue) or generally feeling unwell
chills, fever or feeling feverish
headache 
feeling sick (nausea)
joint pain or muscle ache
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
swelling or redness where the injection is given
being sick (vomiting), diarrhoea or abdominal pain
mild and transient decreased level of blood platelets (laboratory findings)
pain in legs or arms
flu-like symptoms, such as high temperature, sore throat, runny nose, cough and chills
physical weakness or lack of energy
feeling dizzy
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
sleepiness or deep unresponsiveness and inactivity
decreased appetite
enlarged lymph nodes
excessive sweating, itchy skin, rash or hives
muscle spasms
unusual feeling in the skin, such as tingling or a crawling feeling (paraesthesia)
decreased feeling or sensitivity, especially in the skin (hypoaesthesia)
30
-
persistent ringing in the ears (tinnitus)
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
-
one-sided facial drooping
Very Rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)
-
blood clots often in unusual locations (e.g., brain, bowel, liver, spleen) in combination with low 
level of blood platelets
serious nerve inflammation, which may cause paralysis and difficulty breathing (Guillain-Barré 
syndrome [GBS])
-
Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data)
-
-
-
severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis)
hypersensitivity
rapid swelling under the skin in areas such as the face, lips, mouth and throat (which may cause 
difficulty in swallowing or breathing)
capillary leak syndrome (a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels)
very low levels of blood platelets (immune thrombocytopenia) that can be associated with 
bleeding (see section 2, Blood disorders)
blood clots in the brain, not associated with low level of blood platelets (see section 2, Blood 
disorders)
blood clots in veins (venous thromboembolism (VTE))
inflammation of the spinal cord (transverse myelitis)
inflammation of blood vessels in the skin, often with a rash or small red or purple, flat, round 
spots under the skin’s surface or bruising (cutaneous vasculitis)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store Vaxzevria
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Your doctor, pharmacist or nurse is responsible for storing this vaccine and disposing of any unused 
product correctly. The following information about storage, expiry, use and handling as well as 
disposal is intended for healthcare professionals. 
Do not use this vaccine after the expiry date which is stated on the label after EXP.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C).
Do not freeze.
Keep vials in outer carton in order to protect from light.
From the time of vial opening (first needle puncture) use within 6 hours when stored at temperatures 
up to 30°C. After this time, the vial must be discarded. Do not return it to the refrigerator. 
Alternatively, an opened vial may be stored in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C) for a maximum of 48 hours if 
it is immediately returned to the refrigerator following each puncture.
Discard the vial if the suspension is discoloured or particles are observed. Do not shake.
31
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Vaxzevria contains
One dose (0.5 ml) contains:
Chimpanzee Adenovirus encoding the SARS-CoV-2 Spike glycoprotein ChAdOx1-S*, not less than 
2.5 × 108 infectious units
*Produced in genetically modified human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells and by recombinant 
DNA technology.
This product contains genetically modified organisms (GMOs).
The other excipients are L-histidine, L-histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, magnesium chloride 
hexahydrate, polysorbate 80 (E 433), ethanol, sucrose, sodium chloride, disodium edetate (dihydrate), 
water for injections (see section 2 “Vaxzevria contains sodium and alcohol”).
What Vaxzevria looks like and contents of the pack
Suspension for injection (injection). The suspension is colourless to slightly brown, clear to slightly 
opaque. 
10-dose multidose vial (5 ml) with stopper (elastomeric with aluminium overseal) in a pack of 
10 vials. Each vial contains 10 doses of 0.5 ml.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
Manufacturer
AstraZeneca Nijmegen B.V.
Lagelandseweg 78
Nijmegen, 6545CG
Netherlands
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
България
АстраЗенека България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 44 55 000
Česká republika
AstraZeneca Czech Republic s.r.o.
Tel: +420 222 807 111
Danmark
AstraZeneca A/S
Tlf: +45 43 66 64 62
Deutschland
AstraZeneca GmbH
Tel: +49 40 809034100
Lietuva
UAB AstraZeneca Lietuva
Tel: +370 5 2660550
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tél/Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
Magyarország
AstraZeneca Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 883 6500
Malta
Associated Drug Co. Ltd
Tel: +356 2277 8000
Nederland
AstraZeneca BV
Tel: +31 85 808 9900
32
Eesti
AstraZeneca 
Tel: +372 6549 600
Ελλάδα
AstraZeneca A.E.
Τηλ: +30 210 6871500
Norge
AstraZeneca AS
Tlf: +47 21 00 64 00
Österreich
AstraZeneca Österreich GmbH
Tel: +43 1 711 31 0
España
AstraZeneca Farmacéutica Spain, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 200 444
Polska
AstraZeneca Pharma Poland Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 245 73 00
France
AstraZeneca
Tél: +33 1 41 29 40 00
Hrvatska 
AstraZeneca d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 4628 000
Portugal
AstraZeneca Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 434 61 00
România
AstraZeneca Pharma SRL
Tel: +40 21 317 60 41
Ireland
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) DAC
Tel: +353 1609 7100
Slovenija
AstraZeneca UK Limited
Tel: +386 1 51 35 600
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Italia
AstraZeneca S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 00704500
Κύπρος
Αλέκτωρ Φαρµακευτική Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22490305
Latvija
SIA AstraZeneca Latvija
Tel: +371 67377100
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information
Slovenská republika
AstraZeneca AB, o.z.
Tel: +421 2 5737 7777
Suomi/Finland
AstraZeneca Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 10 23 010
Sverige
AstraZeneca AB
Tel: +46 8 553 26 000
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
AstraZeneca UK Ltd
Tel: +44 1582 836 836
Scan the QR code with a mobile device to get this information in different languages.
www.azcovid-19.com
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu
33
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
For storage and disposal, see section 5 “How to store Vaxzevria”.
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Handling instructions and administration
This vaccine should be handled by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique to ensure the 
sterility of each dose.
The vaccine should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration. Vaxzevria is a colourless to slightly brown, clear to slightly opaque suspension. 
Discard the vial if the suspension is discoloured or visible particles are observed. Do not shake. Do not 
dilute the suspension.
The vaccine should not be mixed in the same syringe with any other vaccines or medicinal products.
The Vaxzevria primary vaccination course consists of two separate doses of 0.5 ml each. The second 
dose should be administered between 4 and 12 weeks after the first dose.
A booster dose (third dose) of 0.5 ml may be given to individuals who completed the primary 
vaccination course with Vaxzevria or an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine. The third dose should be 
administered at least 3 months after completing the primary vaccination course.
Each vaccine dose of 0.5 ml is withdrawn into a syringe for injection to be administered 
intramuscularly, preferably in the deltoid muscle of the upper arm. Use a new needle for 
administration, when possible.
It is normal for liquid to remain in the vial after withdrawing the final dose. An additional overfill is 
included in each vial to ensure that 10 doses (vial of 5 ml) of 0.5 ml can be delivered. Do not pool 
excess vaccine from multiple vials. Discard any unused vaccine. 
Disposal
Any unused vaccine or waste material should be disposed of in compliance with the local guidance for 
pharmaceutical waste. Potential spills should be disinfected with agents with viricidal activity against 
adenovirus.
34
