Summary of risk management plan for Vazkepa (icosapent ethyl) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Vazkepa. The RMP details important 
risks of Vazkepa, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Vazkepa 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Vazkepa's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Vazkepa should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Vazkepa should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Vazkepa's 
RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Vazkepa is authorised to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in adult statin-treated patients at 
high cardiovascular risk with elevated triglycerides (≥150 mg/dL) and established cardiovascular 
disease, or diabetes, and at least one other cardiovascular risk factor (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains icosapent ethyl as the active substance and it is given orally.  
Further information about the evaluation of Vazkepa’s benefits can be found in Vazkepa’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/vazkepa 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Vazkepa, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Vazkepa 's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Vazkepa is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Vazkepa are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Vazkepa. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Bleeding in patients on anti-thrombotic therapy 
Atrial fibrillation/flutter 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant and breast-feeding women 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Bleeding in patients on anti-thrombotic therapy 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
In a clinical study of 8,179 patients with established cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) or at high risk of CVD, 482 (12%) of 4089 patients 
receiving Vazkepa experienced a bleeding event compared to 
404 (10%) of 4090 patients receiving placebo. The incidence of 
bleeding was greater in patients receiving Vazkepa together with 
medications to prevent clot formation, such as acetylsalicylic acid, 
clopidogrel, or warfarin. Serious bleeding events occurred in 
122 (3.4%) of 3640 patients receiving Vazkepa compared with 
94 (2.6%) of 3635 patients receiving placebo, when administered 
together with medications to prevent clot formation. However, the 
frequency of serious bleeding was the same (0.2%) in those 
receiving Vazkepa and placebo, when administered to patients who 
were not taking medications to prevent clot formation. 
Risk factors for bleeding include older age, female sex, history of 
bleeding or anaemia, heart failure, cerebrovascular disease (e.g. 
stroke), liver or kidney disease, hypertension, cancer, trauma or 
surgery, genetic variations affecting clotting or metabolism and 
concomitant medications e.g. acetylsalicylic acid, warfarin, 
clopidogrel. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on periodic monitoring of 
patients receiving Vazkepa together with anti-thrombotic agents 
SmPC section 4.8 
PL section 2 and 4 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
Important identified risk: Atrial fibrillation/flutter 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
In a clinical study of 8,179 patients with established CVD or at high 
risk of CVD, patients receiving Vazkepa had a significantly higher 
rate of abnormal heart rhythms called atrial fibrillation/flutter 
(236 patients (5.8%) of 4089 patients receiving Vazkepa) compared 
with those receiving placebo (183 patients (4.5%) of 4090 patients). 
The percentage of patients requiring more than 24 hours 
hospitalisation for atrial fibrillation/flutter was also significantly 
higher in those receiving Vazkepa (127 patients (3.1%) of 
4089 patients) than in those receiving placebo (84 patients (2.1%) of 
4090 patients). Atrial fibrillation is more common in patients with 
cardiovascular conditions. Therefore, some of the patients included 
in the clinical study will have had underlying health conditions 
(e.g. hypertension, atherosclerosis) putting them at greater risk for 
atrial fibrillation. Atrial fibrillation/flutter events assessed to be drug 
related were reported rarely 0.07% (3 of 4089 patients) and 
0.02% (1 of 4090 patients) for Vazkepa and placebo, respectively. 
Risk factors for atrial fibrillation include coronary heart disease, 
hypertension (>140/90 mmHg), heart failure, diabetes, 
hyperthyroidism, obesity, and valvular heart disease  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on monitoring for clinical 
evidence of atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter and performing 
electrocardiographic evaluation when clinically indicated. 
SmPC section 4.8 
PL section 2 and 4 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing information: Use in pregnant and breast-feeding women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.6 and 5.3 
PL section 2 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Vazkepa. 
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Vazkepa. 
 
