EMA/68608/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005398 
Vazkepa (icosapent ethyl) 
An overview of Vazkepa and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vazkepa and what is it used for? 
Vazkepa is a medicine for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events such as heart attack, stroke and 
other problems caused by blocked blood circulation. It is for use as add-on treatment in adults being 
treated with a statin medicine who have high levels of triglycerides (a type of fat) in their blood.  
Vazkepa is to be used in patients either with a cardiovascular disease (a condition that affects the 
heart or circulation) or with diabetes and another condition that increases the risk of cardiovascular 
events. 
Vazkepa contains the active substance icosapent ethyl. 
How is Vazkepa used? 
Vazkepa can only be obtained with a prescription. It is available as capsules, each containing 998 mg 
of icosapent ethyl. 
The recommended dose is two capsules twice daily, with or after a meal. 
For more information about using Vazkepa, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Vazkepa work? 
It is not clear exactly how icosapent ethyl, the active substance in Vazkepa works, but it is likely to 
have an anti-inflammatory effect, reduce levels of harmful triglyceride-rich proteins and have 
protective antioxidant effect. As a result, the medicine is likely to reduce the build-up of fatty deposits 
in blood vessels and so prevent them becoming blocked.    
What benefits of Vazkepa have been shown in studies? 
A study involving over 8,000 patients, who either had cardiovascular disease or were at high risk of it, 
found Vazkepa effective at reducing cardiovascular events. Such events included heart attack, stroke, 
blockages or interruption in blood supply to the heart muscle, and death from cardiovascular events. 
All patients in the study had raised triglyceride levels and were being treated with a statin. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Cardiovascular events occurred in 17% (705 out of 4,089) of patients taking Vazkepa compared with 
22% (901 out of 4,090) of patients who received placebo (a dummy treatment). 
What are the risks associated with Vazkepa? 
The most common side effects with Vazkepa (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are bleeding, 
peripheral oedema (swelling in the feet and arms because of fluid build-up), atrial fibrillation (when the 
upper chambers of the heart do not pump blood effectively), constipation, bone and muscle pain, gout 
and rash. 
Patients must not take Vazkepa if they are allergic to soya or to any of the ingredients of the medicine. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Vazkepa, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vazkepa authorised in the EU? 
Vazkepa was found effective at reducing cardiovascular events in patients at high risk of such events, 
who were taking a statin and had high levels of triglycerides. The side effects of Vazkepa were 
considered manageable. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Vazkepa’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vazkepa? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vazkepa have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vazkepa are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Vazkepa are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vazkepa 
Vazkepa received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 March 2021. 
Further information on Vazkepa can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vazkepa.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2021. 
Vazkepa (icosapent ethyl)  
EMA/68608/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
