EMA/457824/2019 
EMEA/H/C/000741 
Vectibix (panitumumab) 
An overview of Vectibix and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vectibix and what is it used for? 
Vectibix is a medicine for treating colorectal (bowel) cancer that has spread to other parts of the body.  
Vectibix is used alone or with other cancer medicines in patients with a type of tumour that has normal 
(‘wild-type’) copies of a gene known as RAS. 
It contains the active substance panitumumab.  
How is Vectibix used? 
Vectibix can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment with Vectibix should be supervised by a 
doctor who has experience in the use of cancer therapy. It should only be started after the presence of 
wild-type RAS has been confirmed by an experienced laboratory using a validated test method. 
Vectibix is available for infusion (drip) into a vein. The recommended dose of Vectibix is 6 mg per 
kilogram body weight given once every two weeks. The usual recommended infusion time is 
approximately 60 minutes. The dose may need to be modified if severe skin reactions occur and 
treatment stopped if the reaction does not get better.  
For more information about using Vectibix, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Vectibix work? 
The active substance in Vectibix, panitumumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a type of protein that has 
been designed to attach to and block a target called EGFR on certain cells, including some tumour 
cells. As a result, these tumour cells can no longer receive the messages transmitted via EGFR that 
they need to grow and spread to other parts of the body. 
Panitumumab does not seem to work against tumour cells that contain mutated (abnormal) RAS 
genes. This is because growth of these types of cells does not depend on EGFR and they can continue 
to grow uncontrollably even when EGFR is blocked. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Vectibix have been shown in studies? 
Several bowel cancer studies have shown that Vectibix is effective at prolonging life or slowing disease 
progression in patients with ‘wild-type’ RAS tumours that have spread. The studies show Vectibix can 
be effective when used alone and together with the standard chemotherapy regimens FOLFOX (a 
combination of fluorouracil with folinic acid and the cancer medicine oxaliplatin) or FOLFIRI 
(fluorouracil with folinic acid and a different cancer medicine, irinotecan). 
Here are some of the main results from these studies: 
• 
Patients receiving Vectibix in combination with FOLFOX lived for an average of 10.1 months 
without the disease getting worse in a study of 1,183 previously untreated patients compared with 
7.9 months for those receiving FOLFOX alone. 
•  Around 59% of patients who received Vectibix plus FOLFIRI in a study of 154 previously untreated 
had some reduction in signs of cancer. Patients in this study (there was no comparator treatment) 
lived for an average of 11.2 months without their disease getting worse. 
•  Around 73% of patients given Vectibix plus FOLFIRI and 78% of those given Vectibix with FOLFOX 
had some reduction in signs of cancer in a study of 80 previously untreated patients. Patients given 
these combinations lived for an average of 14.8 months and 12.8 months respectively without their 
disease getting worse. 
• 
Patients given Vectibix in combination with FOLFIRI lived for 16.2 months in a study of 1,186 
previously treated patients compared with 13.9 months in patients receiving FOLFIRI alone. 
Patients receiving Vectibix also had a longer period of time without their disease getting worse: 6.4 
months versus 4.6 months. 
• 
Patients with wild-type tumours who received Vectibix alone had no disease progression for an 
average of 16 weeks in a study of 463 patients, compared with 8 weeks in those who did not 
receive Vectibix and only had supportive care. This study involved patients with either wild-type or 
mutant RAS whose disease had got worse despite treatments that included a fluoropyrimidine, 
oxaliplatin and irinotecan. It was later confirmed that benefit is limited only to patients with wild-
type RAS tumours. 
What are the risks associated with Vectibix? 
In studies, 93% of the patients receiving Vectibix had side effects affecting the skin, although most of 
these were mild or moderate. The most common side effects with Vectibix (in more than 2 patients in 
10) were diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, constipation, abdominal pain (stomach ache), 
tiredness, fever, lack of appetite, paronychia (nail bed infection), rash, acneiform dermatitis (skin 
inflammation resembling acne), pruritus (itching), erythema (reddening of the skin) and dry skin. For 
the full list of side effects of Vectibix, see the package leaflet. 
Vectibix must not be used in patients who have had a severe or life-threatening hypersensitivity 
(allergic) reaction to panitumumab or any of the other ingredients in the past. It must not be used in 
patients with interstitial pneumonitis or pulmonary fibrosis (lung diseases). Vectibix must not be used 
with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy in patients whose tumour contains the mutated RAS gene or 
for whom the RAS status is not known.  
Why is Vectibix approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Vectibix’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
Vectibix (panitumumab)  
EMA/457824/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Vectibix was originally given ‘conditional authorisation’ because there was more evidence to come 
about the medicine. As the company has supplied the additional information necessary, the 
authorisation has been switched from conditional to full approval. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vectibix? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vectibix have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vectibix are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Vectibix are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vectibix 
Vectibix received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 3 December 2007. 
This was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 15 January 2015. 
Further information on Vectibix can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/ 
medicines/human/EPAR/vectibix.  
This summary was last updated in 08-2019.  
Vectibix (panitumumab)  
EMA/457824/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
