ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VEGZELMA 25 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion. 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of concentrate contains 25 mg of bevacizumab*.  
Each 4 mL vial contains 100 mg of bevacizumab. 
Each 16 mL vial contains 400 mg of bevacizumab. 
For dilution and other handling recommendations, see section 6.6. 
*Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanised monoclonal antibody produced by DNA technology in 
Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale brown liquid. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
VEGZELMA in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for treatment of 
adult patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. 
VEGZELMA in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic breast cancer. For further information as to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2) status, please refer to section 5.1. 
VEGZELMA in combination with capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients  
with metastatic breast cancer in whom treatment with other chemotherapy options including taxanes or 
anthracyclines is not considered appropriate. Patients who have received taxane and 
anthracycline-containing regimens in the adjuvant setting within the last 12 months should be 
excluded from treatment with VEGZELMA in combination with capecitabine. For further information 
as to HER2 status, please refer to section 5.1. 
VEGZELMA, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of adult 
patients with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) other 
than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
VEGZELMA, in combination with erlotinib, is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-squamous NSCLC with Epidermal Growth Factor 
Receptor (EGFR) activating mutations (see section 5.1). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VEGZELMA in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first line treatment of adult 
patients with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. 
VEGZELMA, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel is indicated for the front-line treatment  
of adult patients with advanced (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stages 
III B, III C and IV) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer (See section 5.1). 
VEGZELMA, in combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine or in combination with carboplatin 
and paclitaxel, is indicated for treatment of adult patients with first recurrence of platinum-sensitive 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who have not received prior therapy 
with bevacizumab or other vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors or VEGF receptor–
targeted agents. 
VEGZELMA in combination with paclitaxel, topotecan, or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian, 
fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who received no more than two prior chemotherapy 
regimens and who have not received prior therapy with bevacizumab or other VEGF inhibitors or 
VEGF receptor–targeted agents (see section 5.1). 
VEGZELMA, in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin or, alternatively, paclitaxel and topotecan  
in patients who cannot receive platinum therapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
persistent, recurrent, or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
VEGZELMA must be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the use of 
antineoplastic medicinal products. 
Posology 
Metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum (mCRC) 
The recommended dose of VEGZELMA, administered as an intravenous infusion, is either 5 mg/kg or 
10 mg/kg of body weight given once every 2 weeks or 7.5 mg/kg or 15 mg/kg of body weight given 
once every 3 weeks. 
It is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying disease or until 
unacceptable toxicity. 
Metastatic breast cancer (mBC) 
The recommended dose of VEGZELMA is 10 mg/kg of body weight given once every 2 weeks or 15 
mg/kg of body weight given once every 3 weeks as an intravenous infusion. 
It is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying disease or until 
unacceptable toxicity. 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
First-line treatment of non-squamous NSCLC in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy 
VEGZELMA is administered in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy for up to 6 cycles of 
treatment  followed by VEGZELMA as a single agent until disease progression. 
The recommended dose of VEGZELMA is 7.5 mg/kg or 15 mg/kg of body weight given once every 3 
weeks as an intravenous infusion. 
Clinical benefit in NSCLC patients has been demonstrated with both 7.5 mg/kg and 15 mg/kg doses 
(see section 5.1). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying disease or until 
unacceptable toxicity. 
First-line treatment of non-squamous NSCLC with EGFR activating mutations in combination with 
erlotinib 
EGFR mutation testing should be performed prior to initiation of treatment with the combination of 
VEGZELMA and erlotinib. It is important that a well-validated and robust methodology is chosen to 
avoid false negative or false positive determinations. 
The recommended dose of VEGZELMA when used in addition to erlotinib is 15 mg/kg of body weight 
given once every 3 weeks as an intravenous infusion. 
It is recommended that the treatment with VEGZELMA in addition to erlotinib is continued until 
disease  progression. 
For the posology and method of administration of erlotinib, please refer to the full erlotinib prescribing 
information. 
Advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC) 
The recommended dose of VEGZELMA is 10 mg/kg of body weight given once every 2 weeks as an 
intravenous infusion. 
It is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying disease or until 
unacceptable toxicity. 
Epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancer 
Front-line treatment: VEGZELMA is administered in addition to carboplatin and paclitaxel for up to 6 
cycles of treatment followed by continued use of VEGZELMA as single agent until disease progression 
or  for a maximum of 15 months or until unacceptable toxicity, whichever occurs earlier. 
The recommended dose of VEGZELMA is 15 mg/kg of body weight given once every 3 weeks as an 
intravenous infusion. 
Treatment of platinum-sensitive recurrent disease: VEGZELMA is administered in combination with 
either  carboplatin and gemcitabine for 6 cycles and up to 10 cycles or in combination with carboplatin 
and  paclitaxel for 6 cycles and up to 8 cycles, followed by continued use of VEGZELMA as single 
agent until  disease progression. The recommended dose of VEGZELMA is 15 mg/kg of body weight 
given once every 3 weeks as an intravenous infusion. 
Treatment of platinum-resistant recurrent disease: VEGZELMA is administered in combination with 
one of the following agents – paclitaxel, topotecan (given weekly) or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. 
The recommended dose of VEGZELMA is 10 mg/kg of body weight given once every 2 weeks as an 
intravenous infusion. When VEGZELMA is administered in combination with topotecan (given on 
days 1-5, every 3 weeks), the recommended dose of VEGZELMA is 15 mg/kg of body weight given 
once every 3 weeks as an intravenous infusion. It is recommended that treatment be continued until 
disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (see section 5.1, study MO22224). 
Cervical cancer 
VEGZELMA is administered in combination with one of the following chemotherapy regimens: 
paclitaxel  and cisplatin or paclitaxel and topotecan. 
The recommended dose of VEGZELMA is 15 mg/kg of body weight given once every 3 weeks as an 
intravenous infusion. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying disease or until 
unacceptable toxicity (see section 5.1). 
Special populations 
Elderly patients  
No dose adjustment is required in patients ≥ 65 years of age. 
Patients with renal impairment 
The safety and efficacy have not been studied in patients with renal  impairment (see section 5.2). 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy have not been studied in patients with  hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of bevacizumab in children aged less than 18 years old have not been 
established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation 
on a posology can be made. 
There is no relevant use of bevacizumab in the paediatric population in the indications for treatment of 
cancers of the colon, rectum, breast, lung, ovarian, fallopian tube, peritoneum, cervix and kidney. 
Method of administration 
VEGZELMA  is  for  intravenous  use.  The  initial  dose  should  be  delivered  over  90  minutes  as  an 
intravenous infusion. If the first infusion is  well tolerated, the second infusion may be administered over 
60 minutes. If the 60-minute infusion is well tolerated, all subsequent infusions may be administered over 
30 minutes. 
It should not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus. 
Dose reduction for adverse reactions is not recommended. If indicated, therapy should either be 
permanently discontinued or temporarily suspended as described in section 4.4. 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. VEGZELMA 
infusions should not be administered or mixed with glucose solutions. This medicinal product must  not 
be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
● 
● 
● 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Hypersensitivity to Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell products or other recombinant human  or 
humanised antibodies. 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number  of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Gastrointestinal (GI) perforations and fistulae (see section 4.8) 
Patients may be at an increased risk for the development of gastrointestinal perforation and gall  bladder 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
perforation when treated with bevacizumab. Intra-abdominal inflammatory process may be a risk 
factor for gastrointestinal perforations in patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum, 
therefore, caution should be exercised when treating these patients. Prior radiation is a risk factor for 
GI perforation in patients treated for persistent, recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with 
bevacizumab and all patients with GI perforation had a history of prior radiation. Therapy should be 
permanently discontinued in patients who develop gastrointestinal perforation. 
GI-vaginal fistulae in study GOG-0240 
Patients treated for persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer with bevacizumab are at increased 
risk of fistulae between the vagina and any part of the GI tract (Gastrointestinal-vaginal fistulae). Prior 
radiation is a major risk factor for the development of GI-vaginal fistulae and all patients with 
GI-vaginal fistulae had a history of prior radiation. Recurrence of cancer within the field of prior 
radiation is an additional important risk factor for the development of GI-vaginal fistulae. 
Non-GI fistulae (see section 4.8) 
Patients may be at increased risk for the development of fistulae when treated with bevacizumab. 
Permanently discontinue VEGZELMA in patients with tracheoesophageal (TE) fistula or any Grade 4 
fistula [US National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE 
v.3)]. Limited information is available on the continued use of bevacizumab in patients with other 
fistulae. 
In cases of internal fistula not arising in the gastrointestinal tract, discontinuation of VEGZELMA 
should be considered. 
Wound healing complications (see section 4.8) 
Bevacizumab may adversely affect the wound healing process. Serious wound healing complications, 
including anastomotic complications, with a fatal outcome have been reported. Therapy should not be 
initiated for at least 28 days following major surgery or until the surgical wound is fully healed. In 
patients who experienced wound healing complications during therapy, treatment should be withheld 
until the wound is fully healed. Therapy should be withheld for elective surgery. 
Necrotising fasciitis, including fatal cases, has rarely been reported in patients treated with 
bevacizumab. This condition is usually secondary to wound healing complications, gastrointestinal 
perforation or fistula formation. VEGZELMA therapy should be discontinued in patients who develop 
necrotising fasciitis, and appropriate treatment should be promptly initiated. 
Hypertension (see section 4.8) 
An increased incidence of hypertension was observed in bevacizumab-treated patients. Clinical safety 
data suggest that the incidence of hypertension is likely to be dose-dependent. Pre-existing 
hypertension should be adequately controlled before starting VEGZELMA treatment. There is no 
information on the effect of bevacizumab in patients with uncontrolled hypertension at the time of 
initiating therapy. 
Monitoring of blood pressure is generally recommended during therapy. 
In most cases hypertension was controlled adequately using standard antihypertensive treatment 
appropriate for the individual situation of the affected patient. The use of diuretics to manage 
hypertension is not advised in patients who receive a cisplatin-based chemotherapy regimen. 
VEGZELMA should be permanently discontinued if medically significant hypertension cannot be 
adequately controlled with antihypertensive therapy, or if the patient develops hypertensive crisis or 
hypertensive encephalopathy. 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) (see section 4.8) 
There have been rare reports of bevacizumab-treated patients developing signs and symptoms that are 
consistent with PRES, a rare neurologic disorder, which can present with the following signs and 
symptoms among others: seizures, headache, altered mental status, visual disturbance, or cortical 
blindness, with or without associated hypertension. A diagnosis of PRES requires confirmation by 
brain imaging, preferably magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In patients developing PRES, treatment 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of specific symptoms including control of hypertension is recommended along with discontinuation of 
VEGZELMA. The safety of reinitiating bevacizumab therapy in patients previously experiencing PRES 
is not  known. 
Proteinuria (see section 4.8) 
Patients with a history of hypertension may be at increased risk for the development of proteinuria 
when treated with bevacizumab. There is evidence suggesting that all Grade (US National Cancer 
Institute- Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [NCI-CTCAE v.3]) proteinuria may be 
related to the dose. Monitoring of proteinuria by dipstick urinalysis is recommended prior to starting 
and during therapy. Grade 4 proteinuria (nephrotic syndrome) was seen in up to 1.4% of patients 
treated with bevacizumab. Therapy should be permanently discontinued in patients who develop 
nephrotic syndrome  (NCI-CTCAE v.3). 
Arterial thromboembolism (see section 4.8) 
In clinical trials, the incidence of arterial thromboembolic reactions including cerebrovascular 
accidents (CVAs), transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) and myocardial infarctions (MIs) was higher in 
patients receiving bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy compared to those who received 
chemotherapy alone. 
Patients receiving bevacizumab plus chemotherapy, with a history of arterial thromboembolism, 
diabetes or age greater than 65 years have an increased risk of developing arterial thromboembolic 
reactions during therapy. Caution should be taken when treating these patients with VEGZELMA. 
Therapy should be permanently discontinued in patients who develop arterial thromboembolic 
reactions. 
Venous thromboembolism (see section 4.8) 
Patients may be at risk of developing venous thromboembolic reactions, including pulmonary 
embolism under bevacizumab treatment. 
Patients treated for persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer with bevacizumab in combination 
with paclitaxel and cisplatin may be at increased risk of venous thromboembolic events. 
VEGZELMA should be discontinued in patients with life-threatening (Grade 4) thromboembolic 
reactions,  including pulmonary embolism (NCI-CTCAE v.3). Patients with thromboembolic reactions 
≤ Grade 3 need to be closely monitored (NCI-CTCAE v.3). 
Haemorrhage 
Patients treated with bevacizumab have an increased risk of haemorrhage, especially tumour-associated 
haemorrhage. VEGZELMA should be discontinued permanently in patients who experience Grade 3 or 
4 bleeding during VEGZELMA therapy (NCI-CTCAE v.3) (see section 4.8). 
Patients with untreated CNS metastases were routinely excluded from clinical trials with bevacizumab, 
based on imaging procedures or signs and symptoms. Therefore, the risk of CNS haemorrhage in such 
patients has not been prospectively evaluated in randomised clinical trials (see section 4.8). Patients 
should be monitored for signs and symptoms of CNS bleeding, and VEGZELMA treatment 
discontinued in cases of intracranial bleeding. 
There is no information on the safety profile of bevacizumab in patients with congenital bleeding 
diathesis, acquired coagulopathy or in patients receiving full dose of anticoagulants for the treatment of 
thromboembolism prior to starting bevacizumab treatment, as such patients were excluded from clinical 
trials. Therefore, caution should be exercised before initiating therapy in these patients. However, 
patients who developed venous thrombosis while receiving therapy did not appear to have an  increased 
rate of Grade 3 or above bleeding when treated with a full dose of warfarin and bevacizumab 
concomitantly (NCI-CTCAE v.3). 
Pulmonary haemorrhage/haemoptysis 
Patients with NSCLC treated with bevacizumab may be at risk of serious, and in some  cases fatal, 
pulmonary haemorrhage/haemoptysis. Patients with recent pulmonary haemorrhage/ haemoptysis (> 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5 mL of red blood) should not be treated with bevacizumab. 
Aneurysms and artery dissections 
The use of VEGF pathway inhibitors in patients with or without hypertension may promote the 
formation of aneurysms and/or artery dissections. Before initiating VEGZELMA, this risk should be 
carefully considered in patients with risk factors such as hypertension or history of aneurysm. 
Congestive heart failure (CHF) (see section 4.8) 
Reactions consistent with CHF were reported in clinical trials. The findings ranged from asymptomatic 
declines in left ventricular ejection fraction to symptomatic CHF, requiring treatment or 
hospitalisation. Caution should be exercised when treating patients with clinically significant 
cardiovascular disease such as pre-existing coronary artery disease, or CHF with  bevacizumab. 
Most  of  the  patients  who  experienced  CHF  had  metastatic  breast  cancer  and  had  received  previous 
treatment with anthracyclines, prior radiotherapy to the left chest wall or other risk factors for CHF were 
present. 
In patients in AVF3694g who received treatment with anthracyclines and who had not received 
anthracyclines before, no increased incidence of all Grade CHF was observed in the anthracycline + 
bevacizumab group compared to the treatment with anthracyclines only. CHF Grade 3 or higher 
reactions were somewhat more frequent among patients receiving bevacizumab in combination with 
chemotherapy than in patients receiving chemotherapy alone. This is consistent with results in patients 
in other studies of metastatic breast cancer who did not receive concurrent anthracycline treatment 
(NCI-CTCAE v.3) (see section 4.8). 
Neutropenia and infections (see section 4.8) 
Increased rates of severe neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, or infection with or without severe 
neutropenia (including some fatalities) have been observed in patients treated with some myelotoxic 
chemotherapy regimens plus bevacizumab in comparison to chemotherapy alone. This has mainly been 
seen  in combination with platinum- or taxane-based therapies in the treatment of NSCLC, mBC, and 
in  combination with paclitaxel and topotecan in persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer. 
Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactic shock)/infusion reactions (see section 4.8) 
Patients may be at risk of developing infusion/hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactic shock). 
Close observation of the  patient during and following the administration of bevacizumab is 
recommended as expected for any  infusion of a therapeutic humanised monoclonal antibody. If a 
reaction occurs, the infusion should be discontinued and appropriate medical therapies should be 
administered. A systematic premedication is  not warranted. 
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) (see section 4.8) 
Cases of ONJ have been reported in cancer patients treated with bevacizumab, the majority of whom 
had  received prior or concomitant treatment with intravenous bisphosphonates, for which ONJ is an 
identified risk. Caution should be exercised when bevacizumab and intravenous bisphosphonates are 
administered simultaneously or sequentially. 
Invasive dental procedures are also an identified risk factor. A dental examination and appropriate 
preventive dentistry should be considered prior to starting the treatment with VEGZELMA. In patients 
who have previously received or are receiving intravenous bisphosphonates invasive dental procedures 
should be avoided, if possible. 
Intravitreal use 
VEGZELMA is not formulated for intravitreal use. 
Eye disorders 
Individual cases and clusters of serious ocular adverse reactions have been reported following 
unapproved intravitreal use of bevacizumab compounded from vials approved for intravenous 
administration in cancer patients. These reactions included infectious endophthalmitis, intraocular 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inflammation such as sterile endophthalmitis, uveitis and vitritis, retinal detachment, retinal pigment 
epithelial tear, intraocular pressure increased, intraocular haemorrhage such as vitreous haemorrhage 
or retinal haemorrhage and conjunctival haemorrhage. Some of these reactions have resulted in  various 
degrees of visual loss, including permanent blindness. 
Systemic effects following intravitreal use 
A reduction of circulating VEGF concentration has been demonstrated following intravitreal anti-VEGF 
therapy. Systemic adverse reactions including non-ocular haemorrhages and arterial  thromboembolic 
reactions have been reported following intravitreal injection of VEGF inhibitors. 
Ovarian failure/fertility 
Bevacizumab may impair female fertility (see sections 4.6 and 4.8). Therefore, fertility preservation 
strategies should be discussed with women of child-bearing potential prior to starting treatment with 
VEGZELMA. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effect of antineoplastic agents on bevacizumab pharmacokinetics 
No clinically relevant interaction of co-administered chemotherapy on bevacizumab pharmacokinetics 
was observed based on the results of population pharmacokinetic analyses. There were neither 
statistically significant nor clinically relevant differences in bevacizumab clearance in patients 
receiving bevacizumab monotherapy compared to patients receiving bevacizumab in combination with 
interferon alfa-2a, erlotinib or chemotherapies (IFL, 5-FU/LV, carboplatin/paclitaxel, capecitabine, 
doxorubicin or cisplatin/gemcitabine). 
Effect of bevacizumab on the pharmacokinetics of other antineoplastic agents 
No clinically relevant interaction of bevacizumab was observed on the pharmacokinetics of 
co-administered interferon alfa 2a, erlotinib (and its active metabolite OSI-420), or the chemotherapies 
irinotecan (and its active metabolite SN38), capecitabine, oxaliplatin (as determined by measurement  of 
free and total platinum), and cisplatin. Conclusions on the impact of bevacizumab on gemcitabine 
pharmacokinetics cannot be drawn. 
Combination of bevacizumab and sunitinib malate 
In two clinical trials of metastatic renal cell carcinoma, microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia 
(MAHA) was reported in 7 of 19 patients treated with bevacizumab (10 mg/kg every two weeks) and 
sunitinib malate (50 mg daily) combination. 
MAHA is a haemolytic disorder which can present with red cell fragmentation, anaemia, and 
thrombocytopenia. In addition, hypertension (including hypertensive crisis), elevated creatinine, and 
neurological symptoms were observed in some of these patients. All of these findings were reversible 
upon discontinuation of bevacizumab and sunitinib malate (see Hypertension, Proteinuria, PRES in 
section 4.4). 
Combination with platinum- or taxane-based therapies (see sections 4.4 and 4.8) 
Increased rates of severe neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, or infection with or without severe 
neutropenia (including some fatalities) have been observed mainly in patients treated with platinum-  or 
taxane-based therapies in the treatment of NSCLC and mBC. 
Radiotherapy 
The safety and efficacy of concomitant administration of radiotherapy and bevacizumab has not been 
established. 
EGFR monoclonal antibodies in combination with bevacizumab chemotherapy regimens 
No interaction studies have been performed. EGFR monoclonal antibodies should not be administered 
for the treatment of mCRC in combination with bevacizumab-containing chemotherapy. Results from 
the randomised phase III studies, PACCE and CAIRO-2, in patients with mCRC suggest that the use  of 
anti-EGFR monoclonal antibodies panitumumab and cetuximab, respectively, in combination with 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bevacizumab plus chemotherapy, is associated with decreased progression-free survival (PFS) and/or 
overall survival (OS), and with increased  toxicity compared with bevacizumab plus chemotherapy 
alone. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during (and up to 6 months after) 
treatment. 
Pregnancy 
There are no clinical trial data on the use of bevacizumab in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity including malformations (see section 5.3). ImmunoglobulinGs (IgGs) are 
known to cross the placenta, and bevacizumab is anticipated to inhibit angiogenesis in the foetus, and 
thus is suspected to cause serious birth defects when administered during pregnancy. In the 
post-marketing setting, cases of foetal abnormalities in women treated with bevacizumab alone or in 
combination with known embryotoxic chemotherapeutics have been observed (see section 4.8). 
Bevacizumab is contraindicated in  pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether bevacizumab is excreted in human milk. As maternal IgG is excreted in milk 
and bevacizumab could harm infant growth and development (see section 5.3), women must 
discontinue breast-feeding during therapy and not breast-feed for at least six months following the last 
dose of bevacizumab. 
Fertility 
Repeat dose toxicity studies in animals have shown that bevacizumab may have an adverse effect on 
female fertility (see section 5.3). In a phase III trial in the adjuvant treatment of patients with colon 
cancer, a substudy with premenopausal women has shown a higher incidence of new cases of ovarian 
failure in the bevacizumab group compared to the control group. After discontinuation of bevacizumab 
treatment, ovarian function recovered in the majority of patients. Long term effects of the treatment 
with bevacizumab on fertility are unknown. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Bevacizumab has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, 
somnolence and syncope have been reported with bevacizumab use (see Table 1 in section 4.8). If 
patients are experiencing symptoms that affect their vision or concentration, or their ability to react, 
they should be advised not to drive and use machines until symptoms abate. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The overall safety profile of bevacizumab is based on data from over 5,700 patients with various 
malignancies, predominantly treated with bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy in clinical 
trials. 
The most serious adverse reactions were: 
● 
● 
● 
Gastrointestinal perforations (see section 4.4). 
Haemorrhage, including pulmonary haemorrhage/haemoptysis, which is more common in 
NSCLC patients (see section 4.4). 
Arterial thromboembolism (see section 4.4). 
The most frequently observed adverse reactions across clinical trials in patients receiving bevacizumab 
were hypertension, fatigue or asthenia, diarrhoea and abdominal pain. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analyses of the clinical safety data suggest that the occurrence of hypertension and proteinuria with 
bevacizumab therapy are likely to be dose-dependent. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions listed in this section fall into the following frequency categories: Very common 
(≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); 
very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Tables 1 and 2 list adverse reactions associated with the use of bevacizumab in combination with 
different chemotherapy regimens in multiple indications, by MedDRA system organ class. 
Table 1 provides all adverse reactions by frequency that were determined to have a causal relationship 
with bevacizumab through: 
● 
comparative incidences noted between clinical trial treatment arms (with at least a 10% 
difference compared to the control arm for NCI-CTCAE Grade 1-5 reactions or at least a 2% 
difference compared to the control arm for NCI-CTCAE Grade 3-5 reactions, 
post-authorisation safety studies, 
spontaneous reporting, 
epidemiological studies\non-interventional or observational studies, 
or through an evaluation of individual case reports. 
● 
● 
● 
● 
Table 2 provides the frequency of severe adverse reactions. Severe reactions are defined as adverse 
events with at least a 2% difference compared to the control arm in clinical studies for NCI-CTCAE 
Grade 3-5 reactions. Table 2 also includes adverse reactions which are considered by the marketing 
authorisation holder (MAH) to be clinically significant or severe. 
Post-marketing adverse reactions are included in both Tables 1 and 2, where applicable. Detailed 
information about these post-marketing reactions are provided in Table 3. 
Adverse reactions are added to the appropriate frequency category in the tables below according to the 
highest incidence seen in any indication. 
Within each frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in the order of decreasing  seriousness. 
Some of the adverse reactions are reactions commonly seen with chemotherapy; however, bevacizumab 
may exacerbate these reactions when combined with chemotherapeutic agents. Examples include 
palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or capecitabine, 
peripheral sensory neuropathy with paclitaxel or oxaliplatin, nail disorders or alopecia with paclitaxel, 
and paronychia with erlotinib. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Adverse reactions by frequency 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Frequency 
not known 
System 
organ  class 
Infections 
and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Metabolism 
and  nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous 
system 
disorders 
Eye 
disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Febrile 
neutropenia, 
leucopenia, 
neutropeniab, 
thrombocyto
penia 
Anorexia, 
hypomagnesa
emia, 
hyponatraemi
a 
Peripheral 
sensory 
neuropathyb, 
dysarthria, 
headache, 
dysguesia 
Eye disorder, 
lacrimation 
increased 
Hypertension
b,d, 
thromboemb
olism 
(venous)b,d 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Dyspnoea, 
rhinitis, 
epistaxis, 
cough 
Necrotising 
fasciitisa 
Anaphylactic 
shock 
Hypertensive 
encephalo- 
pathya 
Posterior 
reversible 
encephalo- 
pathy 
syndromea,b,d 
Renal 
thrombotic 
microangiopa
thya,b, 
aneurysms 
and artery 
dissections 
Pulmonary 
hypertension
a,  nasal 
septum 
perforationa 
Sepsis, 
abscessb,d, 
cellulitis, 
infection, 
urinary tract 
infection 
Anaemia, 
lymphopenia 
Hypersensiti
vity,  infusion 
reactionsa,b,d 
Dehydration 
Cerebrovascu
lar  accident, 
syncope, 
somnolence 
Congestive 
heart 
failureb,d, 
supraventricu
lar 
tachycardia 
Thrombo- 
embolism 
(arterial)b,d, 
haemorrhage
b,d,  deep vein 
thrombosis 
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage/ 
haemoptysisb
,d, 
pulmonary 
embolism, 
hypoxia, 
dysphoniaa 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
organ  class 
Gastrointesti
nal  disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskel
etal  and 
connective 
tissue 
disorders 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive 
system and 
breast 
disorders 
Congenital, 
familial, and 
genetic 
disorder 
General 
disorders and 
administratio
n  site 
conditions 
Investigation
s 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Gastrointesti
nal 
perforationb,d
,  intestinal 
perforation, 
ileus, 
intestinal 
obstruction, 
recto-vaginal 
fistulaed,e, 
gastrointestin
al  disorder, 
proctalgia 
Palmar-
plantar 
erythro- 
dysaesthesia 
syndrome 
Fistulab,d, 
muscular 
weakness, 
back pain 
Very 
common 
Rectal 
haemorrhage, 
stomatitis, 
constipation, 
diarrhoea, 
nausea, 
vomiting, 
abdominal 
pain 
Wound 
healing 
complication
sb,d,  
exfoliative 
dermatitis, 
dry skin, 
skin 
discoloration 
Arthralgia, 
myalgia 
Proteinuriab,d 
Ovarian 
failureb,c,d 
Pelvic pain 
Lethargy 
Asthenia, 
fatigue, 
pyrexia, pain, 
mucosal 
inflammation 
Weight 
decreased 
Frequency 
not known 
Gastrointesti
nal  ulcera 
Gallbladder 
perforationa,b 
Osteonecrosi
s of the 
jawa,b, non-
mandibular 
osteonecrosis
a,f 
Foetal 
abnormalities
a,b 
When events were noted as both all grade and grade 3-5 adverse drug reactions in clinical trials, the highest 
frequency observed in patients has been reported. Data are unadjusted for the differential time on treatment. 
a  For further information please refer to Table 3 'Adverse reactions reported in post-marketing setting.' 
b Terms represent a group of events that describe a medical concept rather than a single condition or   MedDRA 
(Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities) preferred term. This group of medical terms may involve the same 
underlying pathophysiology (e.g. arterial thromboembolic reactions include cerebrovascular accident, myocardial 
infarction, transient ischaemic attack and other arterial thromboembolic reactions). 
c  Based on a substudy from NSABP C-08 with 295 patients 
d  For additional information refer below within section "Further information on selected serious adverse 
reactions." 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e  Recto-vaginal fistulae are the most common fistulae in the GI-vaginal fistula category. 
f Observed in paediatric population only 
14 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 Severe adverse reactions by frequency 
Very 
common 
Febrile 
neutropenia, 
leucopenia, 
neutropeniaa, 
thrombo- 
cytopenia 
Peripheral 
sensory 
neuropathya
System 
organ  class 
Infections 
and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Metabolism 
and  nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous 
system 
disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Hypertension
a,b
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Common 
Sepsis, 
cellulitis, 
abscessa,b, 
infection, 
urinary tract 
infection 
Anaemia, 
lymphopenia 
Hypersensiti
vity,  infusion 
reactionsa,b,c 
Dehydration,
hyponatraemi
a 
Cerebrovascu
lar  accident, 
syncope, 
somnolence, 
headache 
Congestive 
heart 
failurea,b, 
supraventricu
lar 
tachycardia 
Thrombo-
embolism 
arteriala,b, 
haemorrhage
a,b, thrombo-
embolism 
(venous)a,b, 
deep vein 
thrombosis 
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage
/ 
haemoptysisa,
b, pulmonary 
embolism, 
epistaxis, 
dyspnoea, 
hypoxia 
Uncomm
on 
Rare 
Very  rare 
Frequency 
not  known 
Necrotising 
fasciitisc
Anaphylactic 
shock 
Posterior 
reversible 
encephalo-
pathy 
syndrome 
a,b,c, 
hypertensive 
encephalo- 
pathyc
Renal 
thrombotic, 
microangio-
pathyb,c, 
aneurysms 
and  artery 
dissections 
Pulmonary 
hypertensionc
,  nasal 
septum 
perforationc
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Uncomm
on 
Rare 
Very  rare 
Intestinal 
perforation, 
ileus, 
intestinal 
obstruction, 
recto-vaginal 
fistulaec,d, 
gastrointestin
al  disorder, 
stomatitis, 
proctalgia 
Wound 
healing 
complication
sa,b, palmar-
plantar 
erythrodysae
sthesia 
syndrome 
Fistulaa,b, 
myalgia, 
arthralgia, 
muscular 
weakness, 
back pain 
Proteinuriaa,b 
Pelvic pain 
Frequency 
not  known 
Gastro-
intestinal 
perforationa,b, 
gastrointestin
al  ulcerc, 
rectal 
haemorrhage 
Gallbladder 
perforation b,c 
Osteonecrosi
s of  the 
jawb,c 
Ovarian 
failurea,b 
Foetal 
abnormalities
a,c 
System 
organ  class 
Gastro-
intestinal 
disorders 
Very 
common 
Diarrhoea, 
nausea, 
vomiting, 
abdominal 
pain 
Hepatobiliar
y  disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders 
Musculo-
skeletal  and 
connective 
tissue 
disorders 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive 
system and 
breast 
disorders 
Congenital, 
familial, and 
genetic 
disorder 
General 
disorders and 
administratio
n  site 
conditions 
Asthenia, 
fatigue 
Pain, 
lethargy, 
mucosal 
inflammation 
Table 2 provides the frequency of severe adverse reactions. Severe reactions are defined as adverse events with  at 
least a 2% difference compared to the control arm in clinical studies for NCI-CTCAE Grade 3-5 reactions.  Table 
2 also includes adverse reactions which are considered by the MAH to be clinically significant or severe.  These 
clinically significant adverse reactions were reported in clinical trials but the grade 3-5 reactions did not  meet the 
threshold of at least a 2% difference compared to the control arm. Table 2 also includes clinically  significant 
adverse reactions that were observed only in the postmarketing setting, therefore, the frequency and  NCI-CTCAE 
grade  is not known. These clinically significant reactions have therefore been included in Table 2  within the 
column entitled “Frequency Not Known.” 
a  Terms represent a group of events that describe a medical concept rather than a single condition or MedDRA 
(Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities) preferred term. This group of medical terms may involve the same 
underlying pathophysiology (e.g. arterial thromboembolic reactions include cerebrovascular accident, myocardial 
infarction, transient ischaemic attack and other arterial thromboembolic reactions). 
b  For additional information refer below within section "Further information on selected serious adverse reactions" 
c For further information please refer to Table 3 'Adverse reactions reported in post-marketing setting.' 
d  Recto-vaginal fistulae are the most common fistulae in the GI-vaginal fistula category. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Des cription of selected serious adverse reactions 
Gastrointestinal (GI) perforations and fistulae (see section 4.4) 
Bevacizumab has been associated with serious cases of gastrointestinal perforation. 
Gastrointestinal perforations have been reported in clinical trials with an incidence of less than 1% in 
patients with non-squamous NSCLC, up to 1.3% in patients with metastatic breast  cancer, up to 2.0% 
in patients with mRCC or in patients with ovarian cancer, and  up to 2.7% (including gastrointestinal 
fistula and abscess) in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. From a clinical trial in patients with 
persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer (study GOG- 0240), GI perforations (all grade) were 
reported in 3.2% of patients, all of whom had a history of prior  pelvic radiation. 
The occurrence of those events varied in type and severity, ranging from free air seen on the plain 
abdominal X-ray, which resolved without treatment, to intestinal perforation with abdominal abscess 
and fatal outcome. In some cases underlying intra-abdominal inflammation was present, either from 
gastric ulcer disease, tumour necrosis, diverticulitis, or chemotherapy-associated colitis. 
Fatal outcome was reported in approximately a third of serious cases of gastrointestinal perforations, 
which represents between 0.2%-1% of all bevacizumab treated patients. 
In bevacizumab clinical trials, gastrointestinal fistulae (all grade) have been reported with an incidence 
of  up to 2% in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and ovarian cancer, but were also reported less 
commonly in patients with other types of cancer. 
GI-vaginal fistulae in study GOG-0240 
In a trial of patients with persistent, recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer, the incidence of GI-vaginal 
fistulae was 8.3% in bevacizumab-treated patients and 0.9% in control patients, all of whom had a 
history of  prior pelvic radiation. The frequency of GI-vaginal fistulae in the group treated with 
bevacizumab + chemotherapy was higher in patients with recurrence within the field of prior radiation 
(16.7%) compared with patients with no prior radiation and/ or no recurrence inside the field of prior 
radiation (3.6%). The corresponding frequencies in the control group receiving chemotherapy alone 
were 1.1% vs. 0.8%, respectively. Patients who develop GI-vaginal fistulae may also have bowel 
obstructions and require surgical intervention as well as diverting ostomies. 
Non-GI fistulae (see section 4.4) 
Bevacizumab use has been associated with serious cases of fistulae including reactions resulting in 
death. 
From a clinical trial in patients with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer (GOG-0240), 
1.8% of bevacizumab-treated patients and 1.4% of control patients were reported to have had 
non-gastrointestinal vaginal, vesical, or female genital tract fistulae. 
Uncommon (≥ 0.1% to < 1%) reports of fistulae that involve areas of the body other than the 
gastrointestinal tract (e.g. bronchopleural and biliary fistulae) were observed across various  indications. 
Fistulae have also been reported in post-marketing experience. 
Reactions were reported at various time points during treatment ranging from one week to greater than 
1 year from initiation of bevacizumab, with most reactions occurring within the first 6 months of 
therapy. 
Wound healing (see section 4.4) 
As bevacizumab may adversely impact wound healing, patients who had major surgery within the last 
28 days were excluded from participation in phase III clinical trials. 
In clinical trials of metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum, there was no increased risk of 
post-operative bleeding or wound healing complications observed in patients who underwent major 
surgery  28-60 days prior to starting bevacizumab. An increased incidence of post-operative bleeding or 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
wound  healing complication occurring within 60 days of major surgery was observed if the patient was 
being  treated with bevacizumab at the time of surgery. The incidence varied between 10% (4/40) and 
20% (3/15). 
Serious wound healing complications, including anastomotic complications, have been reported, some 
of which had a fatal outcome. 
In locally recurrent and metastatic breast cancer trials, Grade 3-5 wound healing complications were 
observed in up to 1.1% of patients receiving bevacizumab compared with up to 0.9% of patients in the 
control arms (NCI-CTCAE v.3). 
In clinical trials of ovarian cancer, Grade 3-5 wound healing complications were observed in up to 
1.8% of patients in the bevacizumab arm versus 0.1% in the control arm (NCI-CTCAE v.3). 
Hypertension (see section 4.4) 
In clinical trials, with the exception of study JO25567, the overall incidence of hypertension (all 
grades) ranged up to 42.1% in the bevacizumab containing arms compared with up to 14% in the 
control  arms. The overall incidence of NCI-CTC Grade 3 and 4 hypertension in patients receiving 
bevacizumab ranged from 0.4% to 17.9%. Grade 4 hypertension (hypertensive crisis) occurred in up to 
1.0% of patients treated with bevacizumab and chemotherapy compared to up to 0.2% of patients 
treated with the same chemotherapy alone. 
In study JO25567, all grade hypertension was observed in 77.3% of the patients who received 
bevacizumab in combination with erlotinib as first-line treatment for non-squamous NSCLC with 
EGFR activating mutations, compared to 14.3% of patients treated with erlotinib alone. Grade 3 
hypertension was 60.0% in patients treated with bevacizumab in combination with erlotinib compared 
to 11.7% in patients treated with erlotinib alone. There were no grade 4 or 5 hypertension events. 
Hypertension was generally adequately controlled with oral anti-hypertensives such as 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics and calcium-channel blockers. It rarely resulted in 
discontinuation of bevacizumab treatment or hospitalisation. 
Very rare cases of hypertensive encephalopathy have been reported, some of which were fatal. 
The risk of bevacizumab-associated hypertension did not correlate with the patients’ baseline 
characteristics, underlying disease or concomitant therapy. 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (see section 4.4) 
There have been rare reports of bevacizumab-treated patients developing signs and symptoms that are 
consistent with PRES, a rare neurological disorder. Presentation may include seizures, headache, 
altered mental status, visual disturbance, or cortical blindness, with or without associated  hypertension. 
The clinical presentation of PRES is often nonspecific, and therefore the diagnosis of  PRES requires 
confirmation by brain imaging, preferably MRI. 
In patients developing PRES, early recognition of symptoms with prompt treatment of specific 
symptoms including control of hypertension (if associated with severe uncontrolled hypertension) is 
recommended in addition to discontinuation of bevacizumab therapy. Symptoms usually resolve or 
improve within days after treatment discontinuation, although some patients have experienced some 
neurologic sequelae. The safety of reinitiating bevacizumab therapy in patients previously experiencing 
PRES is not known. 
Across clinical trials, 8 cases of PRES have been reported. Two of the eight cases did not have 
radiological confirmation via MRI. 
Proteinuria (see section 4.4) 
In clinical trials, proteinuria has been reported within the range of 0.7% to 54.7% of patients receiving 
bevacizumab. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proteinuria ranged in severity from clinically asymptomatic, transient, trace proteinuria to nephrotic 
syndrome, with the great majority as Grade 1 proteinuria (NCI-CTCAE v.3). Grade 3 proteinuria was 
reported in up to 10.9% of treated patients. Grade 4 proteinuria (nephrotic syndrome) was seen in up to 
1.4% of treated patients. Testing for proteinuria is recommended prior to start of VEGZELMA therapy. 
In  most clinical trials urine protein levels of ≥ 2g/24 hrs led to the holding of bevacizumab until 
recovery to < 2g/24 hrs. 
Haemorrhage (see section 4.4) 
In clinical trials across all indications the overall incidence of NCI-CTCAE v.3 Grade 3-5 bleeding 
reactions ranged from 0.4% to 6.9% in bevacizumab treated patients, compared with up to 4.5% of 
patients in the chemotherapy control group. 
From a clinical trial in patients with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer (study 
GOG-0240), grade 3-5 bleeding reactions have been reported in up to 8.3% of patients treated with 
bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel and topotecan compared with up to 4.6% of patients 
treated with paclitaxel and topotecan. 
The haemorrhagic reactions that have been observed in clinical trials were predominantly 
tumour-associated haemorrhage (see below) and minor mucocutaneous haemorrhage (e.g. epistaxis). 
Tumour-associated haemorrhage (see section 4.4) 
Major or massive pulmonary haemorrhage/haemoptysis has been observed primarily in trials in 
patients with NSCLC. Possible risk factors include squamous cell  histology, treatment with 
antirheumatic/anti-inflammatory substances, treatment with anticoagulants, prior radiotherapy, 
bevacizumab therapy, previous medical history of atherosclerosis, central tumour location and 
cavitation of tumours prior to or during therapy. The only variables that showed statistically significant 
correlations with bleeding were bevacizumab therapy and squamous cell histology. Patients with 
NSCLC of known squamous cell histology or mixed cell type with predominant squamous cell 
histology were excluded from subsequent phase III trials, while patients with unknown tumour 
histology were included. 
In patients with NSCLC excluding predominant squamous histology, all Grade reactions were seen 
with a frequency of up to 9.3% when treated with bevacizumab plus chemotherapy compared with up 
to 5%  in the patients treated with chemotherapy alone. Grade 3-5 reactions have been observed in up to 
2.3% of patients treated with bevacizumab plus chemotherapy as compared with < 1% with 
chemotherapy alone (NCI-CTCAE v.3). Major or massive pulmonary haemorrhage/haemoptysis can 
occur suddenly and up to two thirds of the serious pulmonary haemorrhages resulted in a fatal outcome. 
Gastrointestinal haemorrhages, including rectal bleeding and melaena have been reported in colorectal 
cancer patients, and have been assessed as tumour-associated haemorrhages. 
Tumour-associated haemorrhage was also seen rarely in other tumour types and locations, including 
cases of central nervous system (CNS) bleeding in patients with CNS metastases (see section 4.4). 
The incidence of CNS bleeding in patients with untreated CNS metastases receiving bevacizumab has 
not been prospectively evaluated in randomised clinical trials. In an exploratory retrospective analysis 
of data from 13 completed randomised trials in patients with various tumour types, 3 patients out of 91 
(3.3%) with brain metastases experienced CNS bleeding (all Grade 4) when treated with bevacizumab, 
compared to 1 case (Grade 5) out of 96 patients (1%) that were not exposed to bevacizumab. In two 
subsequent studies in patients with treated brain metastases (which included around 800 patients), one 
case of Grade 2 CNS haemorrhage was reported in 83 subjects treated with bevacizumab (1.2%) at the 
time of interim safety analysis (NCI-CTCAE v.3). 
Across all clinical trials, mucocutaneous haemorrhage has been seen in up to 50% of 
bevacizumab-treated patients. These were most commonly NCI-CTCAE v.3 Grade 1 epistaxis that 
lasted less than 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 minutes, resolved without medical intervention and did not require any changes in the bevacizumab 
treatment regimen. Clinical safety data suggest that the incidence of minor mucocutaneous 
haemorrhage (e.g. epistaxis) may be dose-dependent. 
There have also been less common reactions of minor mucocutaneous haemorrhage in other locations, 
such as gingival bleeding or vaginal bleeding. 
Thromboembolism (see section 4.4) 
Arterial thromboembolism: An increased incidence of arterial thromboembolic reactions was observed 
in patients treated with bevacizumab across indications, including cerebrovascular accidents, 
myocardial  infarction, transient ischaemic attacks, and other arterial thromboembolic reactions. 
In clinical trials, the overall incidence of arterial thromboembolic reactions ranged up to 3.8% in the 
bevacizumab containing arms compared with up to 2.1% in the chemotherapy control arms. Fatal 
outcome was reported in 0.8% of patients receiving bevacizumab compared to 0.5% in patients 
receiving chemotherapy alone. Cerebrovascular accidents (including transient ischaemic attacks) were 
reported in up to 2.7% of patients treated with bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy 
compared to up to 0.5% of patients treated with chemotherapy alone. Myocardial infarction was 
reported in up to 1.4% of  patients treated with bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy 
compared to up to 0.7% of patients  treated with chemotherapy alone. 
In one clinical trial evaluating bevacizumab in combination with 5-fluorouracil/folinic acid, AVF2192g, 
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who were not candidates for treatment with irinotecan were 
included. In this trial arterial thromboembolic reactions were observed in 11% (11/100) of patients 
compared to 5.8% (6/104) in the chemotherapy control group. 
Venous thromboembolism: The incidence of venous thromboembolic reactions in clinical trials was 
similar in patients receiving bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy compared to those 
receiving  the control chemotherapy alone. Venous thromboembolic reactions include deep venous 
thrombosis, pulmonary embolism and thrombophlebitis. 
In clinical trials across indications, the overall incidence of venous thromboembolic reactions ranged 
from 2.8% to 17.3% of bevacizumab-treated patients compared with 3.2% to 15.6% in the control arms. 
Grade 3-5 (NCI-CTCAE v.3) venous thromboembolic reactions have been reported in up to 7.8% of 
patients treated with chemotherapy plus bevacizumab compared with up to 4.9% in patients treated 
with chemotherapy alone (across indications, excluding persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical 
cancer). 
From a clinical trial in patients with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer (study 
GOG-0240), grade 3-5 venous thromboembolic events have been reported in up to 15.6% of patients 
treated with bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin compared with up to 7.0% of 
patients treated with paclitaxel and cisplatin. 
Patients who have experienced a venous thromboembolic reaction may be at higher risk for a 
recurrence if they receive bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone. 
Congestive heart failure (CHF) 
In clinical trials with bevacizumab, CHF was observed in all cancer indications studied to date, but 
occurred predominantly in patients with metastatic breast cancer. In four phase III trials (AVF2119g, 
E2100, BO17708 and AVF3694g) in patients with metastatic breast cancer CHF Grade 3 (NCI-CTCAE 
v.3) or higher was reported in up to 3.5% of patients treated with bevacizumab in combination with 
chemotherapy compared with up to 0.9% in the control arms. For patients in study AVF3694g who 
received anthracyclines concomitantly with bevacizumab, the incidences of Grade 3 or higher CHF for 
the respective bevacizumab and control arms were similar to those in the other  studies in metastatic 
breast cancer: 2.9% in the anthracycline + bevacizumab arm and 0% in the  anthracycline + placebo 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
arm. In addition, in study AVF3694g the incidences of all Grade CHF were  similar between the 
anthracycline + bevacizumab (6.2%) and the anthracycline + placebo arms (6.0%). 
Most patients who developed CHF during mBC trials showed improved symptoms and/or left 
ventricular function following appropriate medical therapy. 
In most clinical trials of bevacizumab, patients with pre-existing CHF of NYHA (New York Heart 
Association) II-IV were excluded, therefore, no information is available on the risk of CHF in this 
population. 
Prior anthracyclines exposure and/or prior radiation to the chest wall may be possible risk factors for 
the development of CHF. 
An increased incidence of CHF has been observed in a clinical trial of patients with diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma when receiving bevacizumab with a cumulative doxorubicin dose greater than 
300 mg/m2. This phase III clinical trial compared rituximab/cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin/ 
vincristine/prednisone (R-CHOP) plus bevacizumab to R-CHOP without bevacizumab. While the 
incidence of CHF was, in both arms, above that previously observed for doxorubicin therapy, the rate 
was higher in the R-CHOP plus bevacizumab arm. These results suggest that close clinical observation 
with appropriate cardiac assessments should be considered for patients exposed to cumulative 
doxorubicin doses greater than 300 mg/m2 when combined with bevacizumab. 
Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactic shock)/infusion reactions (see section 4.4 and 
Post-marketing experience below)   
In some clinical trials anaphylactic and anaphylactoid-type reactions were reported more frequently in 
patients receiving bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy than with chemotherapy alone. The 
incidence of these reactions in some clinical trials of bevacizumab is common (up to 5% in 
bevacizumab-treated patients). 
Infections 
From a clinical trial in patients with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer (study 
GOG-0240), grade 3-5 infections have been reported in up to 24% of patients treated with bevacizumab 
in  combination with paclitaxel and topotecan compared with up to 13% of patients treated with 
paclitaxel  and topotecan. 
Ovarian failure/fertility (see sections 4.4 and 4.6) 
In NSABP C-08, a phase III trial of bevacizumab in adjuvant treatment of patients with colon cancer, 
the  incidence of new cases of ovarian failure, defined as amenorrhoea lasting 3 or more months, FSH 
level ≥ 30 mIU/mL and a negative serum β-HCG pregnancy test, has been evaluated in 295 
premenopausal  women. New cases of ovarian failure were reported in 2.6% patients in the 
mFOLFOX-6 group  compared to 39% in the mFOLFOX-6 + bevacizumab group. After 
discontinuation of bevacizumab treatment, ovarian function recovered in 86.2% of these evaluable 
women. Long term effects of the treatment with bevacizumab on fertility are unknown. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
Decreased neutrophil count, decreased white blood cell count and presence of urine protein may be 
associated with VEGZELMA treatment. 
Across clinical trials, the following Grade 3 and 4 (NCI-CTCAE v.3) laboratory abnormalities 
occurred in patients treated with bevacizumab with at least a 2% difference compared to the 
corresponding control groups: hyperglycaemia, decreased haemoglobin, hypokalaemia, hyponatraemia, 
decreased white blood cell count, increased international normalised ratio (INR). 
Clinical trials have shown that transient increases in serum creatinine (ranging between 1.5-1.9 times 
baseline level), both with and without proteinuria, are associated with the use of bevacizumab. The 
observed increase in serum creatinine was not associated with a higher incidence of clinical 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
manifestations of renal impairment in patients treated with bevacizumab. 
Other special populations 
Elderly patients 
In randomised clinical trials, age > 65 years was associated with an increased risk of developing 
arterial thromboembolic reactions, including cerebrovascular accidents, transient ischaemic  attacks and 
myocardial infarctions. Other reactions with a higher frequency seen in  patients over 65 were Grade 3-
4 leucopenia and thrombocytopenia (NCI-CTCAE v.3); and all Grade neutropenia, diarrhoea, nausea, 
headache and fatigue as compared to those aged ≤ 65 years when treated with bevacizumab (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8 under Thromboembolism). In one clinical trial, the incidence of hypertension of 
grade ≥ 3 was two fold higher in patients aged > 65 years than in the younger age group (<65 years). In 
a study of platinum-resistant recurrent ovarian cancer patients, alopecia, mucosal inflammation, 
peripheral sensory neuropathy, proteinuria and hypertension were also reported and occurred at a rate 
at least 5% higher in the CT + BV arm for bevacizumab-treated patients ≥ 65 years of age compared 
with bevacizumab-treated patients aged < 65 years. 
No increase in the incidence of other reactions, including gastrointestinal perforation, wound healing 
complications, CHF, and haemorrhage was observed in elderly patients (> 65 years)  receiving 
bevacizumab as compared to those aged ≤ 65 years treated with bevacizumab. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of bevacizumab in children less than 18 years old have not been established. 
In study BO25041 of bevacizumab added to postoperative radiation therapy (RT) with concomitant and 
adjuvant temozolomide in paediatric patients with newly diagnosed supratentorial, infratentorial, 
cerebellar, or peduncular high-grade glioma, the safety profile was comparable with that observed in 
other tumour types in adults treated with bevacizumab. 
In study BO20924 of bevacizumab with current standard of care in rhabdomyosarcoma and 
non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma, the safety profile of bevacizumab treated children was 
comparable  with that observed in adults treated with bevacizumab. 
VEGZELMA is not approved for use in patients under the age of 18 years. In published literature 
reports, cases of non-mandibular osteonecrosis have been observed in patients under the age of 18 
years treated with bevacizumab. 
Post-marketing experience 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Adverse reactions reported in post-marketing setting 
System organ class 
(SOC) 
Infections and 
infestations 
Immune system 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Reactions (frequency*) 
Necrotising fasciitis, usually secondary to wound healing  complications, 
gastrointestinal perforation or fistula formation (rare)  (see also section 
4.4) 
Hypersensitivity reactions and infusion reactions (common); with  the 
following possible co-manifestations: dyspnoea/difficulty  breathing, 
flushing/redness/rash, hypotension or hypertension, oxygen  desaturation, 
chest pain, rigors and nausea/vomiting (see also section 4.4 and 
Hypersensitivity reactions/infusion reactions above) 
Anaphylactic shock (rare) (see also section 4.4) 
Hypertensive encephalopathy (very rare) (see also section 4.4 and 
Hypertension in section 4.8) 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES), (rare) (see  also 
section 4.4) 
Renal thrombotic microangiopathy, which may be clinically  manifested 
as proteinuria (not known) with or without concomitant  sunitinib use. For 
further information on proteinuria see section 4.4  and Proteinuria in 
section 4.8. 
Nasal septum perforation (not known), pulmonary hypertension (not 
known),  dysphonia (common) 
Gastrointestinal ulcer (not known) 
Hepatobiliary disorders  Gall bladder perforation (not known) 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Congenital, familial, 
and genetic disorder 
Cases of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) have been reported in  patients 
treated with bevacizumab, most of which occurred in patients who  had 
identified risk factors for ONJ, in particular exposure to  intravenous 
bisphosphonates and/or a history of dental disease  requiring invasive 
dental procedures (see also section 4.4) 
Cases of non-mandibular osteonecrosis have been observed in 
bevacizumab  treated paediatric patients (see section 4.8, Paediatric 
population). 
Cases of foetal abnormalities in women treated with bevacizumab  alone 
or in combination with known embryotoxic chemotherapeutics  have been 
observed (see section 4.6) 
* If specified, the frequency has been derived from clinical trial data 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed 
in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose 
The highest dose tested in humans (20 mg/kg of body weight, intravenous every 2 weeks) was 
associated with severe migraine in several patients. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antineoplastic and immunomodulating agents, antineoplastic agents, other 
antineoplastic agents, monoclonal antibodies, ATC code: L01FG01 
VEGZELMA is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Mecha nism of action 
Bevacizumab binds to VEGF, the key driver of vasculogenesis  and angiogenesis, and thereby inhibits 
the binding of VEGF to its receptors, Flt-1 (VEGFR-1) and  KDR (VEGFR-2), on the surface of 
endothelial cells. Neutralising the biological activity of VEGF  regresses the vascularisation of tumours, 
normalises remaining tumour vasculature, and inhibits the  formation of new tumour vasculature, 
thereby inhibiting tumour growth. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Administration of bevacizumab or its parental murine antibody to xenotransplant models of cancer in 
nude mice resulted in extensive anti-tumour activity in human cancers, including colon, breast, 
pancreas and prostate. Metastatic disease progression was inhibited and microvascular permeability 
was reduced. 
Clinical efficacy 
Metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum (mCRC) 
The safety and efficacy of the recommended dose (5 mg/kg of body weight every two weeks) in 
metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum were studied in three randomised, active-controlled clinical 
trials in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based first-line chemotherapy. Bevacizumab was combined 
with two chemotherapy regimens: 
● 
● 
● 
AVF2107g: A weekly schedule of irinotecan/bolus 5-fluorouracil/folinic acid (IFL) for a total  of 
4 weeks of each 6 week-cycle (Saltz regimen). 
AVF0780g: In combination with bolus 5-fluorouracil/folinic acid (5-FU/FA) for a total of 6  weeks 
of each 8 week-cycle (Roswell Park regimen). 
AVF2192g:  In  combination  with  bolus  5-FU/FA for  a  total  of  6  weeks  of  each  8  week-cycle 
(Roswell  Park  regimen)  in  patients  who  were  not  optimal  candidates  for  first-line  irinotecan 
treatment. 
Three additional studies with bevacizumab have been conducted in mCRC patients: first-line 
(NO16966), second-line with no previous bevacizumab treatment (E3200), and second-line with 
previous bevacizumab treatment following disease progression in first-line (ML18147). In these 
studies, bevacizumab was administered at the following dosing regimens in combination with 
FOLFOX-4 (5-FU/LV/oxaliplatin), XELOX (capecitabine/oxaliplatin), and 
fluoropyrimidine/irinotecan and fluoropyrimidine/oxaliplatin: 
● 
● 
NO16966: Bevacizumab 7.5 mg/kg of body weight every 3 weeks in combination with oral 
capecitabine and intravenous oxaliplatin (XELOX) or bevacizumab 5 mg/kg every 2 weeks in 
combination with leucovorin plus 5-fluorouracil bolus, followed by 5-fluorouracil infusion, with 
intravenous oxaliplatin (FOLFOX-4). 
E3200: Bevacizumab 10 mg/kg of body weight every 2 weeks in combination with leucovorin 
and  5-fluorouracil bolus, followed by 5-fluorouracil infusion, with intravenous oxaliplatin 
(FOLFOX-4) in bevacizumab-naïve patients. 
●  ML18147: Bevacizumab 5.0 mg/kg of body weight every 2 weeks or bevacizumab 7.5 mg/kg of 
body weight every 3 weeks in combination with fluoropyrimidine/irinotecan or 
fluoropyrimidine/oxaliplatin in patients with disease progression following first-line treatment 
with bevacizumab. Use of irinotecan- or oxaliplatin-containing regimen was switched depending 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on first-line usage of either oxaliplatin or irinotecan. 
AVF2107g 
This was a phase III randomised, double-blind, active-controlled clinical trial evaluating bevacizumab 
in combination with IFL as first-line treatment for metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. 
Eight hundred and thirteen patients were randomised to receive IFL + placebo (Arm 1) or IFL + 
bevacizumab (5 mg/kg every 2 weeks, Arm 2). A third group of 110 patients received bolus 5-FU/FA+ 
bevacizumab (Arm 3). Enrolment in Arm 3 was discontinued, as pre-specified, once safety of 
bevacizumab with the IFL regimen was established and considered acceptable. All treatments were 
continued until disease progression. The overall mean age was 59.4 years; 56.6% of patients had an 
ECOG performance status of 0, 43% had a value of 1 and 0.4% had a value of 2. 15.5% had received 
prior  radiotherapy and 28.4% prior chemotherapy. 
The primary efficacy variable of the trial was OS. The addition of bevacizumab to IFL resulted  in 
statistically significant increases in OS, PFS and overall response rate (see Table 4). The clinical 
benefit, as measured by OS, was seen in all pre-specified patient subgroups, including those defined by 
age, sex, performance status, location of primary  tumour, number of organs involved and duration of 
metastatic disease. 
The efficacy results of bevacizumab in combination with IFL-chemotherapy are displayed in Table 4. 
Table 4 
Efficacy results for trial AVF2107g 
Number of patients 
Overall survival 
Median time (months) 
95% CI 
Hazard ratiob 
Progression-free survival 
Median time (months) 
Hazard ratio 
Overall response rate 
Rate (%) 
a 5 mg/kg every 2 weeks. 
b Relative to control arm. 
AVF2107g 
Arm 1 
IFL + placebo 
411 
15.6 
14.29 – 16.99 
Arm 2 
IFL + Bevacizumaba 
402 
20.3 
18.46 – 24.18 
0.660 
(p-value = 0.00004) 
6.2 
34.8 
0.54 
(p-value < 0.0001) 
(p-value = 0.0036) 
10.6 
44.8 
Among the 110 patients randomised to Arm 3 (5-FU/FA + Bevacizumab) prior to discontinuation of 
this arm, the median OS was 18.3 months and the median PFS was 8.8 months. 
AVF2192g 
This was a phase II randomised, double-blind, active-controlled clinical trial evaluating the efficacy 
and safety of bevacizumab in combination with 5-FU/FA as first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal 
cancer in patients who were not optimal candidates for first-line irinotecan treatment. One hundred and 
five patients were randomised to 5-FU/FA + placebo arm and 104 patients to 5-FU/FA + bevacizumab 
(5 mg/kg every 2 weeks) arm. All treatments were continued until disease progression. The addition of 
bevacizumab 5 mg/kg every two weeks to 5-FU/FA resulted in higher objective response rates, 
significantly longer PFS, and a trend in longer survival as compared to 5-FU/FA chemotherapy alone. 
AVF0780g 
This was a phase II randomised, active-controlled, open-labelled clinical trial investigating bevacizumab 
in  combination with 5-FU/FA as first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. The median age was 
25 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
64 years. 19% of the patients had received prior chemotherapy and 14% prior radiotherapy. 
Seventy-one patients were randomised to receive bolus 5-FU/FA or 5-FU/FA + bevacizumab (5 mg/kg 
every 2 weeks). A third group of 33 patients received bolus 5-FU/FA + bevacizumab (10 mg/kg every 
2 weeks). Patients were treated until disease progression. The primary endpoints of the trial were 
objective response rate and PFS. The addition of bevacizumab 5 mg/kg every two weeks to 5-FU/FA 
resulted in higher objective response rates, longer PFS, and a trend in longer survival, compared with 
5-FU/FA chemotherapy alone (see Table 5). These efficacy data are consistent with the results from 
trial AVF2107g. 
The efficacy data from trials AVF0780g and AVF2192g investigating bevacizumab in combination 
with 5-FU/FA-chemotherapy are summarised in Table 5. 
Table 5 
Efficacy results for trials AVF0780g and AVF2192g 
AVF0780g 
5-FU/FA + 
Bevacizum
aba 
35 
5-FU/FA 
Bevacizum
abb 
33 
5-FU/FA 
36 
Number of patients 
Overall survival 
Median time (months) 
13.6 
17.7 
15.2 
AVF2192g 
5-FU/FA + 
placebo 
105 
12.9 
10.35 - 
16.95 
5.5 
5-FU/FA + 
Bevacizum
ab 
104 
16.6 
13.63 - 
19.32 
0.79 
0.16 
9.2 
0.5 
0.0002 
- 
5.2 
- 
0.52 
0.073 
9.0 
0.44 
0.0049 
1.01 
0.978 
7.2 
0.69 
0.217 
16.7 
7.0 - 33.5 
40.0 
24.4 - 57.8 
0.029 
24.2 
11.7 - 42.6 
0.43 
15.2 
9.2 - 23.9 
26 
18.1 - 35.6 
0.055 
NR 
5.5 - NR 
9.3 
6.1 - NR 
5.0 
3.8 - 7.8 
6.8 
5.59 - 9.17 
9.2 
5.88 - 13.01 
95% CI 
Hazard ratioc 
p-value 
Progression-free survival 
Median time (months) 
Hazard ratio 
p-value 
Overall response rate 
Rate (percent) 
95% CI 
p-value 
Duration of response 
Median time (months) 
25–75 percentile 
(months) 
a  5 mg/kg every 2 weeks. 
b  10 mg/kg every 2 weeks.   
c  Relative to control arm.  NR = not reached. 
NO16966 
This was a phase III randomised, double-blind (for bevacizumab), clinical trial investigating 
bevacizumab 7.5 mg/kg in combination with oral capecitabine and intravenous oxaliplatin (XELOX), 
administered on a 3-weekly schedule; or bevacizumab 5 mg/kg in combination with leucovorin with  
5-fluorouracil bolus,  followed by 5-fluorouracil infusional, with intravenous oxaliplatin (FOLFOX-4), 
administered on a 2-weekly schedule. The trial contained two parts: an initial unblinded 2-arm part 
(Part I) in which patients were randomised to two different treatment groups (XELOX and 
FOLFOX-4) and a subsequent 2 x 2 factorial 4-arm part (Part II) in which patients were randomised to 
four treatment groups (XELOX + placebo, FOLFOX-4 + placebo, XELOX + bevacizumab, 
FOLFOX-4 + bevacizumab). In Part II, treatment  assignment was double-blind with respect to 
bevacizumab. 
Approximately 350 patients were randomised into each of the 4 trial arms in the Part II of the trial. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 
Treatment regimens in trial NO16966 (mCRC) 
FOLFOX-4 
or  
FOLFOX-4 + 
Bevacizumab 
XELOX 
or XELOX + 
Bevacizumab 
Treatment 
Oxaliplatin 
Starting dose 
85 mg/m2 intravenous 2 h 
Schedule 
Oxaliplatin on day 1 
Leucovorin 
200 mg/m2 intravenous 2 h 
Leucovorin on day 1 and 2 
5-Fluorouracil 
Placebo or 
Bevacizumab 
Oxaliplatin   
400 mg/m2 intravenous 
bolus,  600 mg/m2 
intravenous 22 h 
5 mg/kg intravenous 30-90 
min 
130 mg/m2 intravenous 2 h 
Capecitabine 
1000 mg/m2 oral bid 
Placebo or 
Bevacizumab 
7.5 mg/kg intravenous 30-90 
min 
5-fluorouracil intravenous 
bolus/infusion,  each on days 1 and 2 
Day 1, prior to FOLFOX-4,  every 2 
weeks 
Oxaliplatin on day 1   
Capecitabine oral bid for 2  weeks 
(followed by 1 week off treatment) 
Day 1, prior to XELOX, q  3 weeks 
5-Fluorouracil: 
intravenous bolus injection immediately after leucovorin 
The primary efficacy parameter of the trial was the duration of PFS. In this trial,  there were two 
primary objectives: to show that XELOX was non-inferior to FOLFOX-4 and to show  that 
bevacizumab in combination with FOLFOX-4 or XELOX chemotherapy was superior to chemotherapy 
alone. Both co-primary objectives were met: 
● 
● 
Non-inferiority of the XELOX-containing arms compared with the FOLFOX-4-containing arms 
in the overall comparison was demonstrated in terms of PFS and OS in the eligible per-protocol 
population. 
Superiority of the bevacizumab-containing arms versus the chemotherapy alone arms in the 
overall comparison was demonstrated in terms of PFS in the ITT population  (Table 7). 
Secondary PFS analyses, based on ‘on-treatment’-based response assessments, confirmed the 
significantly superior clinical benefit for patients treated with bevacizumab (analyses shown in Table 
7), consistent with the statistically significant benefit observed in the pooled analysis. 
Table 7 
Key efficacy results for the superiority analysis (ITT population, trial NO16966) 
Endpoint (months) 
Primary endpoint 
Median PFS** 
Hazard ratio (97.5% CI) a 
Secondary endpoints 
Median PFS (on treatment)** 
Hazard ratio (97.5% CI) 
Overall response rate 
(invest. assessment)** 
Median overall survival* 
Hazard ratio (97.5% CI) 
FOLFOX-4 or 
XELOX 
+ placebo   
(n=701) 
FOLFOX-4 or 
XELOX 
+ Bevacizumab 
(n=699) 
P-value 
8.0 
7.9 
0.83 (0.72–0.95) 
0.63 (0.52-0.75) 
9.4 
0.0023 
10.4 
< 0.0001 
49.2 % 
19.9 
46.5 % 
21.2 
0.89 (0.76-1.03) 
0.0769 
*OS analysis at clinical cut-off 31 January 2007 
** Primary analysis at clinical cut-off 31 January 2006 
a relative to control arm 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the FOLFOX treatment subgroup, the median PFS was 8.6 months in placebo and 9.4 months in 
bevacizumab treated patients, HR = 0.89, 97.5% CI = [0.73; 1.08]; p-value = 0.1871, the corresponding 
results in the XELOX treatment subgroup being 7.4 vs. 9.3 months, HR = 0.77, 97.5% CI = [0.63; 
0.94]; p-value = 0.0026. 
The median OS was 20.3 months in placebo and 21.2 months in bevacizumab treated patients in the 
FOLFOX treatment subgroup, HR=0.94, 97.5% CI = [0.75; 1.16]; p-value = 0.4937, the corresponding 
results in the XELOX, treatment subgroup being 19.2 vs. 21.4 months, HR = 0.84, 97.5% CI = [0.68; 
1.04]; p-value = 0.0698. 
ECOG E3200 
This was a phase III randomised, active-controlled, open-label trial investigating bevacizumab  
10 mg/kg in  combination with leucovorin with 5-fluorouracil bolus and then 5-fluorouracil infusional, 
with intravenous oxaliplatin (FOLFOX-4), administered on a 2-weekly schedule in previously-treated 
patients (second line) with advanced colorectal cancer. In the chemotherapy arms, the FOLFOX-4 
regimen used the same doses and schedule as shown in Table 6 for trial NO16966. 
The primary efficacy parameter of the trial was OS, defined as the time from  randomisation to death 
from any cause. Eight hundred and twenty-nine patients were randomised (292 FOLFOX-4, 293 
bevacizumab + FOLFOX-4 and 244 bevacizumab monotherapy). The addition of bevacizumab to 
FOLFOX-4 resulted in a statistically significant prolongation of survival. Statistically significant 
improvements in PFS and objective response rate were also observed (see Table 8). 
Table 8 
Efficacy results for trial E3200 
Number of patients 
Overall survival 
Median (months) 
95% CI 
Hazard ratiob 
Progression-free survival 
Median (months) 
Hazard ratio 
Objective response rate 
Rate 
a  10 mg/kg every 2 weeks 
b  Relative to control arm 
FOLFOX-4 
292 
10.8 
10.12 – 11.86 
E3200 
FOLFOX-4 + 
Bevacizumaba 
293 
13.0 
12.09 – 14.03 
0.751 
(p-value = 0.0012) 
4.5 
7.5 
0.518 
(p-value < 0.0001) 
8.6% 
22.2% 
(p-value < 0.0001) 
No significant difference was observed in the duration of OS between patients who received 
bevacizumab monotherapy compared to patients treated with FOLFOX-4. PFS and objective response 
rate were inferior in the bevacizumab monotherapy arm compared to the  FOLFOX-4 arm. 
ML18147 
This was a Phase III randomised, controlled, open-label trial investigating bevacizumab 5.0 mg/kg 
every 2 weeks or 7.5 mg/kg every 3 weeks in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy 
versus  fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy alone in patients with mCRC who have progressed on a 
first-line bevacizumab-containing regimen. 
Patients with histologically confirmed mCRC and disease progression were randomised 1:1 within 3 
months after discontinuation of bevacizumab first-line therapy to receive fluoropyrimidine/oxaliplatin- 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or fluoropyrimidine/irinotecan-based chemotherapy (chemotherapy switched depending on first-line 
chemotherapy) with or without bevacizumab. Treatment was given until progressive disease or 
unacceptable toxicity. The primary outcome measure was OS defined as the time from randomisation 
until death from any cause. 
A total of 820 patients were randomised. The addition of bevacizumab to fluoropyrimidine-based 
chemotherapy resulted in a statistically significant prolongation of survival in patients with mCRC  who 
have progressed on a first-line bevacizumab-containing regimen (ITT = 819) (see Table 9). 
Table 9 
Efficacy results for study ML18147 (ITT population) 
ML18147 
Fluoropyrimidine/Irinotecan  or 
Fluoropyrimidine/Oxaliplatin 
based chemotherapy 
Fluoropyrimidine/Irinotecan  or 
Fluoropyrimidine/Oxaliplatin 
based chemotherapy 
+ Bevacizumaba 
409 
Number of patients 
Overall survival 
Median (months) 
ratio 
Hazard 
confidence 
(95% 
interval) 
Progression-free survival 
Median (months) 
ratio 
Hazard 
(95%  confidence  interval) 
Objective response rate 
Patients included in 
analysis 
Rate 
410 
9.8 
4.1 
406 
3.9% 
0.81 (0.69, 0.94) 
(p-value = 0.0062) 
0.68 (0.59, 0.78) 
(p-value < 0.0001) 
11.2 
5.7 
404 
5.4% 
a  5.0 mg/kg every 2 weeks or 7.5 mg/kg every 3 weeks 
(p-value = 0.3113) 
Statistically significant improvements in PFS were also observed. Objective  response rate was low in 
both treatment arms and the difference was not significant. 
Study E3200 used a 5 mg/kg/week equivalent dose of bevacizumab in bevacizumab-naïve patients, 
while study ML18147 used a 2.5 mg/kg/week equivalent dose of bevacizumab in 
bevacizumab-pretreated patients. A cross-trial comparison of the efficacy and safety data is limited by 
differences between these studies, most notably in patient populations, previous bevacizumab 
exposure and chemotherapy regimens. Both the 5 mg/kg/week and 2.5 mg/kg/week equivalent doses of  
bevacizumab provided a statistically significant benefit with regards to OS (HR 0.751 in study E3200; 
HR 0.81 in study ML18147) and PFS (HR 0.518 in study E3200; HR 0.68 in study ML18147). In 
terms of safety, there was a higher overall incidence of Grade 3-5 AEs in study E3200 relative to study 
ML18147. 
Metastatic breast cancer (mBC) 
Two large Phase III trials were designed to investigate the treatment effect of bevacizumab in 
combination with two individual chemotherapy agents, as measured by the primary endpoint of PFS. A 
clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in PFS was observed in both trials. 
Summarised below are PFS results for the individual chemotherapy agents included in the indication: 
• 
Study E2100 (paclitaxel) 
• 
Median PFS increase 5.6 months, HR 0.421 (p < 0.0001, 95% CI 0.343; 0.516) 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Study AVF3694g (capecitabine) 
• 
Median PFS increase 2.9 months, HR 0.69 (p = 0.0002, 95% CI 0.56; 0.84)  Further 
details of each study and the results are provided below. 
ECOG E2100 
Trial E2100 was an open-label, randomised, active controlled, multicentre clinical trial evaluating 
bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel for locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer in patients 
who  had not previously received chemotherapy for locally recurrent and metastatic disease. Patients 
were randomised to paclitaxel alone (90 mg/m2 intravenous over 1 hour once weekly for three out of 
four weeks) or  in combination with bevacizumab (10 mg/kg intravenous infusion every two weeks). 
Prior hormonal therapy for the treatment of metastatic disease was allowed. Adjuvant taxane therapy 
was allowed only if it was completed at least 12 months prior to trial entry. Of the 722 patients in the 
trial, the majority of patients had HER2-negative disease (90%), with a small number of patients with 
unknown (8%) or confirmed HER2-positive status (2%), who had previously been treated with or were 
considered unsuitable for trastuzumab therapy. Furthermore, 65% of patients had received adjuvant 
chemotherapy including 19% prior taxanes and 49% prior anthracyclines. Patients with central 
nervous system metastases, including previously treated or resected brain lesions, were excluded. 
In trial E2100, patients were treated until disease progression. In situations where early  discontinuation 
of chemotherapy was required, treatment with bevacizumab as a single agent continued until disease 
progression. The patient characteristics were similar across the trial arms. The primary endpoint of this 
trial was PFS, based on trial investigators’ assessment of  disease progression. In addition, an 
independent review of the primary endpoint was also conducted. The results of this trial are 
presented in Table 10. 
Table 10 
Trial E2100 efficacy results 
Progression-free survival 
Paclitaxel 
Investigator assessment* 
Paclitaxel/ 
Bevacizumab 
(n=368) 
11.4 
(n=354) 
5.8 
0.421 
(0.343; 0.516) 
< 0.0001 
Median PFS (months) 
HR 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
Response rates (for patients with measurable disease) 
Investigator assessment 
Paclitaxel/ 
Bevacizumab 
(n=252) 
48.0 
(n=273) 
23.4 
Paclitaxel 
IRF assessment 
Paclitaxel 
(n=354) 
5.8 
Paclitaxel/ 
Bevacizumab 
(n=368) 
11.3 
0.483 
(0.385; 0.607) 
< 0.0001 
IRF assessment 
Paclitaxel 
(n=243) 
22.2 
Paclitaxel/ 
Bevacizumab 
(n=229) 
49.8 
% pts with objective 
response 
p-value 
* primary analysis 
Overall survival 
Median OS (months) 
HR 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
Paclitaxel 
(n=354) 
24.8 
Paclitaxel/ 
Bevacizumab 
(n=368) 
26.5 
0.869 
(0.722; 1.046) 
0.1374 
The clinical benefit of bevacizumab as measured by PFS was seen in all pre-specified subgroups tested 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(including disease-free interval, number of metastatic sites, prior receipt of adjuvant chemotherapy  and 
estrogen receptor (ER) status). 
AVF3694g 
Study AVF3694g was a Phase III, multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled trial designed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy compared to 
chemotherapy plus placebo as first-line treatment for patients with HER2-negative metastatic or  locally 
recurrent breast cancer. 
Chemotherapy was chosen at the investigator's discretion prior to randomisation in a 2:1 ratio to 
receive either chemotherapy plus bevacizumab or chemotherapy plus placebo. The choices of 
chemotherapy included capecitabine, taxane (protein-bound paclitaxel, docetaxel), and 
anthracycline-based agents (doxorubicin/ cyclophosphamide, epirubicin/ cyclophosphamide, 
5-fluorouracil/ doxorubicin/ cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil/epirubicin/cyclophosphamide) given 
every three weeks (q3w). Bevacizumab or placebo was administered at a dose of 15 mg/kg q3w. 
This study included a blinded treatment phase, an optional open-label post-progression phase, and a 
survival follow-up phase. During the blinded treatment phase, patients received chemotherapy and 
medicinal product (bevacizumab or placebo) every 3 weeks until disease progression, 
treatment-limiting toxicity, or death. On documented disease progression, patients who entered the 
optional open-label phase could receive open-label bevacizumab together with a wide-range of second 
line therapies. 
Statistical analyses were performed independently for 1) patients who received capecitabine in 
combination with bevacizumab or placebo; 2) patients who received taxane-based or 
anthracycline-based chemotherapy in combination with bevacizumab or placebo. The primary endpoint 
of the study was PFS by investigator assessment. In addition, the primary endpoint was also 
assessed by an independent review committee (IRC). 
The results of this study from the final protocol defined analyses for PFS and  response rates for the 
independently powered capecitabine cohort of Study AVF3694g are presented in Table 11. Results 
from an exploratory OS analysis which include an additional 7 months of follow-up (approximately 
46% of patients had died) are also presented. The percentage of patients who received bevacizumab in 
the open-label phase was 62.1% in the capecitabine + placebo arm and 49.9% in the capecitabine + 
bevacizumab arm. 
Table 11  Efficacy results for study AVF3694g: – Capecitabinea and Bevacizumab/Placebo (Cap 
+ Bevacizumab/Pl) 
Progression-free survivalb 
Cap + Pl 
(n=206) 
Investigator assessment 
Cap + 
Bevacizumab 
(n=409) 
8.6 
5.7 
Median PFS (months) 
Hazard ratio vs placebo 
arm (95% CI) 
p-value 
0.0002 
Response rate (for patients with measurable disease)b 
0.69 (0.56; 0.84) 
IRC assessment 
Cap + Pl 
(n=206) 
6.2 
Cap + 
Bevacizumab 
(n=409) 
9.8 
0.68 (0.54; 0.86) 
0.0011 
% pts with objective 
response 
p-value 
Overall survivalb 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value (exploratory) 
Cap + Pl (n=161) 
23.6 
Cap + Bevacizumab (n=325) 
35.4 
0.0097 
0.88 (0.69; 1.13) 
0.33 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a1000 mg/m2 oral twice daily for 14 days administered every 3 weeks 
bStratified analysis included all progression and death events except those where non-protocol therapy (NPT)  was 
initiated prior to documented progression; data from those patients were censored at the last tumour assessment 
prior to starting NPT. 
An unstratified analysis of PFS (investigator assessed) was performed that did not censor for 
non-protocol therapy prior to disease progression. The results of these analyses were very similar to the 
primary PFS results. 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
First-line treatment of non-squamous NSCLC in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy 
The safety and efficacy of bevacizumab, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, in the first-line 
treatment of patients with non-squamous NSCLC, was investigated in  trials E4599 and BO17704. An 
OS benefit has been demonstrated in trial E4599 with a 15 mg/kg/q3wk dose of bevacizumab. Trial 
BO17704 has demonstrated that both 7.5 mg/kg/q3wk and 15 mg/kg/q3wk bevacizumab doses increase 
PFS and response rate. 
E4599 
E4599 was an open-label, randomised, active-controlled, multicentre clinical trial evaluating 
bevacizumab as first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced (stage IIIb with malignant 
pleural effusion), metastatic or recurrent NSCLC other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Patients were randomised to platinum-based chemotherapy (paclitaxel 200 mg/m2) and carboplatin 
AUC = 6.0, both by intravenous infusion (PC) on day 1 of every 3-week cycle for up to 6 cycles or PC 
in  combination with bevacizumab at a dose of 15 mg/kg intravenous infusion day 1 of every 3-week 
cycle. After  completion of six cycles of carboplatin-paclitaxel chemotherapy or upon premature 
discontinuation of chemotherapy, patients on the bevacizumab + carboplatin–paclitaxel arm continued 
to receive bevacizumab as a  single agent every 3 weeks until disease progression. 878 patients were 
randomised to the two arms. 
During the trial, of the patients who received trial treatment, 32.2% (136/422) of patients received 
7-12 administrations of bevacizumab and 21.1% (89/422) of patients received 13 or more 
administrations of bevacizumab. 
The primary endpoint was duration of survival. Results are presented in Table 12. 
Table 12  Efficacy results for trial E4599 
Arm 1 
Arm 2 
Carboplatin/Paclitaxel 
Carboplatin/Paclitaxel + 
Bevacizumab 
15 mg/kg q 3 weeks 
434 
Number of patients 
Overall survival 
Median (months) 
Hazard ratio 
Progression-free survival 
Median (months) 
Hazard ratio 
Overall response rate 
Rate (percent) 
444 
10.3 
4.8 
12.9 
32 
0.80 (p = 0.003) 
95% CI (0.69; 0.93) 
0.65 (p < 0.0001) 
95% CI (0.56; 0.76) 
12.3 
6.4 
29.0 (p < 0.0001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an exploratory analysis, the extent of bevacizumab benefit on OS was less pronounced in the 
subgroup of patients who did not have adenocarcinoma histology. 
BO17704 
Trial BO17704 was a randomised, double-blind phase III trial of bevacizumab in addition to cisplatin 
and gemcitabine versus placebo, cisplatin and gemcitabine in patients with locally advanced (stage IIIb 
with supraclavicular lymph node metastases or with malignant pleural or pericardial effusion), 
metastatic or recurrent non-squamous NSCLC, who had not received prior chemotherapy. The primary 
endpoint was PFS, secondary endpoints for the trial included the duration of OS. 
Patients were randomised to platinum-based chemotherapy, cisplatin 80 mg/m2 intravenous infusion on 
day 1 and gemcitabine 1250 mg/m2 intravenous infusion on days 1 and 8 of every 3-week cycle for up 
to 6 cycles (CG) with placebo or CG with bevacizumab at a dose of 7.5 or 15 mg/kg intravenous 
infusion day 1 of every 3-week cycle. In the bevacizumab-containing arms, patients could receive 
bevacizumab as a single-agent  every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Trial 
results show that 94% (277 / 296) of eligible patients went on to receive single agent bevacizumab at 
cycle 7. A high proportion of patients (approximately 62%) went on to receive a variety of non-protocol 
specified anti-cancer therapies, which may have impacted the analysis of OS. 
The efficacy results are presented in Table 13. 
Table 13  Efficacy results for trial BO17704 
Cisplatin/Gemcitabine 
+ placebo 
Number of patients 
Progression-free  survival 
Median (months) 
347 
6.1 
Hazard ratio 
Best overall  response 
ratea 
Overall survival 
Median (months) 
Hazard ratio 
20.1% 
13.1 
a patients with measurable disease at baseline 
Cisplatin/Gemcitabine 
+ Bevacizumab 
7.5 mg/kg q 3 weeks 
345 
Cisplatin/Gemcitabine 
+ Bevacizumab 
15 mg/kg q 3 weeks 
351 
6.7 
(p=0.0026) 
0.75 
[0.62; 0.91] 
34.1% 
(p < 0.0001) 
6.5 
(p=0.0301) 
0.82 
[0.68; 0.98] 
30.4%  (p=0.0023) 
13.6  (p=0.4203) 
0.93 
[0.78; 1.11] 
13.4  (p=0.7613) 
1.03 
[0.86; 1.23] 
First-line treatment of non-squamous NSCLC with EGFR activating mutations in combination with 
erlotinib 
JO25567 
Study JO25567 was a randomized, open-label, multi-center Phase II study conducted in Japan to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab used in addition to erlotinib in patients with 
non-squamous NSCLC with EGFR activating mutations (exon 19 deletion or exon 21 L858R mutation) 
who had not received prior systemic therapy for Stage IIIB/IV or recurrent disease. 
The primary endpoint was PFS based on independent review assessment. Secondary endpoints included 
OS, response rate, disease control rate, duration of  response, and safety. 
EGFR mutation status was determined for each patient prior to patient screening and 154 patients were 
randomised to receive either erlotinib + bevacizumab (erlotinib 150 mg oral daily + bevacizumab  
[15 mg/kg intravenous every 3 weeks]) or erlotinib monotherapy (150 mg oral daily) until disease 
progression (PD) or unacceptable toxicity. In the absence of PD, discontinuation of one component of 
study treatment in the erlotinib + bevacizumab arm did not lead to discontinuation of the other 
component of study treatment as specified in the study protocol. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy results of the study are presented in Table 14. 
Table 14  Efficacy results for study JO25567 
PFS^  
Median (months) 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value 
Overall response rate 
Rate (n)  
p-value 
Overall survival* 
Median (months)  
HR (95% CI) 
p-value 
Erlotinib  N = 77# 
Erlotinib + 
Bevacizumab 
N = 75# 
9.7 
16.0 
0.54 (0.36; 0.79) 
0.0015 
63.6% (49) 
69.3% (52) 
0.4951 
47.4 
47.0 
0.81 (0.53; 1.23) 
0.3267 
# A total of 154 patients (ECOG Performance Status 0 or 1) were randomized. However, two of the randomized 
patients discontinued the study before receiving any study treatment 
^ Blinded independent review (protocol-defined primary analysis) 
*Exploratory analysis: final OS analysis at clinical cut off on 31 October 2017, approx. 59% of patients had died. 
CI, confidence interval; HR, Hazard ratio from unstratified Cox regression analysis; NR, not reached. 
Advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC) 
Bevacizumab in combination with interferon alfa-2a for the first-line treatment of advanced and/ or 
mRCC (BO17705) 
This was a phase III randomised double-blind trial conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
bevacizumab in combination with interferon (IFN) alfa-2a versus IFN alfa-2a alone as first-line 
treatment in  mRCC. The 649 randomised patients (641 treated) had Karnofsky Performance Status 
(KPS) of ≥ 70%, no CNS metastases and adequate organ function. Patients were nephrectomised for 
primary renal cell carcinoma. Bevacizumab 10 mg/kg was given every 2 weeks until disease 
progression. IFN alfa-2a was given up to 52 weeks or until disease progression at a recommended 
starting dose of 9 MIU three times a week, allowing a dose reduction to 3 MIU three times a week in 2 
steps. Patients were stratified according to country and Motzer score and the treatment arms were 
shown to be well  balanced for the prognostic factors. 
The primary endpoint was OS, with secondary endpoints for the trial including  PFS. The addition of 
bevacizumab to IFN-alpha-2a significantly increased PFS and objective tumour response rate. These 
results have been confirmed through an independent  radiological review. However, the increase in the 
primary endpoint of OS by 2 months  was not significant (HR= 0.91). A high proportion of patients 
(approximately 63% IFN/placebo; 55% bevacizumab/IFN) received a variety of non-specified 
post-trial anti-cancer therapies, including  antineoplastic agents, which may have impacted the analysis 
of OS. 
The efficacy results are presented in Table 15 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15  Efficacy results for trial BO17705 
Number of patients 
Progression-free survival   
Median (months)  
Hazard ratio 
95% CI 
Objective response rate (%) in patients with 
measurable disease 
N 
Response rate 
Overall survival  
Median (months) 
Hazard ratio  
95% CI 
a  Interferon alfa-2a 9 MIU 3x/week 
b  Bevacizumab 10 mg/kg q 2 wk 
BO17705 
Placebo + IFNa 
322 
Bvb + IFNa 
327 
5.4 
10.2 
0.63 
0.52, 0.75 
(p-value < 0.0001) 
289 
12.8% 
306 
31.4% 
(p-value < 0.0001) 
21.3 
23.3 
0.91 
0.76, 1.10 
(p-value 0.3360) 
An exploratory multivariate Cox regression model using backward selection indicated that the 
following baseline prognostic factors were strongly associated with survival independent of treatment: 
gender, white blood cell count, platelets, body weight loss in the 6 months prior to trial entry, number 
of metastatic sites, sum of longest diameter of target lesions, Motzer score. Adjustment for these 
baseline factors resulted in a treatment hazard ratio of 0.78 (95% CI [0.63; 0.96], p=0.0219), indicating 
a 22% reduction in the risk of death for patients in the bevacizumab + IFN alfa-2a arm compared  to 
IFN alfa-2a arm. 
Ninety seven (97) patients in the IFN alfa-2a arm and 131 patients in the bevacizumab arm reduced the 
dose  of IFN alfa-2a from 9 MIU to either 6 or 3 MIU three times a week as pre-specified in the 
protocol. Dose-reduction of IFN alfa-2a did not appear to affect the efficacy of the combination of 
bevacizumab and  IFN alfa-2a based on PFS event free rates over time, as shown by a sub-group 
analysis. The 131 patients in the bevacizumab + IFN alfa-2a arm who reduced and maintained the IFN 
alfa-2a dose at 6 or 3 MIU during the trial, exhibited at 6, 12 and 18 months PFS event free rates of 73, 
52 and 21%  respectively, as compared to 61, 43 and 17% in the total population of patients receiving 
bevacizumab + IFN alfa-2a. 
AVF2938 
This was a randomised, double-blind, phase II clinical trial investigating bevacizumab 10 mg/kg in a 2 
weekly schedule with the same dose of bevacizumab in combination with 150 mg daily erlotinib, in 
patients with metastatic clear cell RCC. A total of 104 patients were randomised to treatment in this 
trial, 53 to bevacizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks plus placebo and 51 to bevacizumab 10 mg/kg every 
2 weeks plus erlotinib 150 mg daily. The analysis of the primary endpoint showed no difference 
between the bevacizumab + Placebo arm and the bevacizumab + Erlotinib arm (median PFS 8.5 versus 
9.9 months). Seven patients in each arm had an objective response. The addition of erlotinib to 
bevacizumab did not result in an improvement in OS (HR = 1.764; p=0.1789), duration of objective 
response (6.7 vs 9.1 months) or time to symptom progression (HR = 1.172; p=0.5076). 
AVF0890 
This was a randomised phase II trial conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab 
versus placebo. A total of 116 patients were randomised to receive bevacizumab 3 mg/kg every 2 
weeks (n=39), 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks; (n=37), or placebo (n=40). An interim analysis showed there 
was a significant prolongation of the time to progression of disease in the 10 mg/kg group as  compared 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with the placebo group (hazard ratio, 2.55; p < 0.001). There was a small difference, of  borderline 
significance, between the time to progression of disease in the 3 mg/kg group and that in  the placebo 
group (hazard ratio, 1.26; p=0.053). Four patients had objective (partial) response, and all of these had 
received the 10 mg/kg dose bevacizumab; the ORR for the 10 mg/kg dose was 10%. 
Epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancer 
Front-line treatment of ovarian cancer 
The safety and efficacy of bevacizumab in the front-line treatment of patients with epithelial ovarian, 
fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer were studied in two phase III trials (GOG-0218 and 
BO17707) that evaluated the effect of the addition of bevacizumab to carboplatin and paclitaxel 
compared to the chemotherapy regimen alone. 
GOG-0218 
The GOG-0218 study was a phase III multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, three 
arm study evaluating the effect of adding bevacizumab to an approved chemotherapy regimen 
(carboplatin and paclitaxel) in patients with advanced (Stages IIIB, IIIC and IV according to FIGO 
staging version dated 1988) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. 
Patients who had received prior therapy with bevacizumab or prior systemic anticancer therapy for 
ovarian cancer (e.g. chemotherapy, monoclonal antibody therapy, tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy, or 
hormonal therapy) or previous radiotherapy to the abdomen or pelvis were excluded from the study. 
A total of 1873 patients were randomised in equal proportions to the following three arms: 
• 
• 
• 
CPP arm: Five cycles of placebo (started cycle 2) in combination with carboplatin (AUC 6)  and 
paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) for 6 cycles followed by placebo alone, for a total of up to 15  months of 
therapy 
CPB15 arm: Five cycles of bevacizumab (15 mg/kg q3w started cycle 2) in combination with 
carboplatin (AUC 6) and paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) for 6 cycles followed by placebo alone, for a 
total of up to 15 months of therapy 
CPB15+ arm: Five cycles of bevacizumab (15 mg/kg q3w started cycle 2) in combination with 
carboplatin (AUC 6) and paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) for 6 cycles followed by continued use of 
bevacizumab (15 mg/kg q3w) as single agent for a total of up to 15 months of therapy. 
The majority of patients included in the study were White (87% in all three arms); the median age was 
60 years in CPP and CPB15 arms and 59 years in CPB15+ arm; and 29% of patients in CPP or CPB15 
and 26% in CPB15+ were over 65 years of age. Overall approximately 50% of patients had a GOG PS 
of 0 at baseline, 43% a GOG PS score of 1, and 7% a GOG PS score of 2. Most patients had EOC 
(82% in CPP and CPB15, 85% in CPB15+) followed by PPC (16% in CPP, 15% in CPB15, 13% in 
CPB15+) and FTC (1% in CPP, 3% in CPB15, 2% in CPB15+). The majority of patients had serous 
adenocarcinoma histologic type (85% in CPP and CPB15, 86% in CPB15+). Overall approximately 
34% of patients were FIGO Stage III optimally debulked with gross residual disease, 40% Stage III 
sub-optimally debulked, and 26% were Stage IV patients. 
The primary endpoint was PFS based on investigator’s assessment of disease progression based on 
radiological scans or CA 125 levels, or symptomatic deterioration per protocol. In addition, a 
prespecified analysis of the data censoring for CA-125 progression events was conducted, as well as  an 
independent review of PFS as determined by radiological scans. 
The trial met its primary objective of PFS improvement. Compared to patients treated with 
chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel) alone in the front-line setting, patients who received 
bevacizumab at a dose of 15 mg/kg q3w in combination with chemotherapy and continued to receive 
bevacizumab alone (CPB15+), had a clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in 
PFS. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients who only received bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy and did not continue to 
receive bevacizumab alone (CPB15), no clinically meaningful benefit in PFS was observed. 
The results of this study are summarised in Table 16. 
Table 16  Efficacy results from study GOG-0218 
Progression-free survival1 
Median PFS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 2
p-value3, 4
Objective response rate5 
% pts with objective 
response 
p-value 
Overall survival6 
Median OS (months) 
2
Hazard ratio (95% CI)
3
p-value
CPP 
(n = 625) 
10.6 
CPP 
(n = 396) 
63.4 
CPP 
(n = 625) 
40.6 
CPB15 
(n = 625) 
11.6 
0.89 
(0.78, 1.02) 
0.0437 
CPB15 
(n = 393) 
66.2 
0.2341 
CPB15 
(n = 625) 
38.8 
1.07 
(0.91, 1.25) 
0.2197 
CPB15+ 
(n = 623) 
14.7 
0.70 
(0.61, 0.81) 
< 0.0001 
CPB15 + 
(n = 403) 
66.0 
0.2041 
CPB15 + 
(n = 623) 
43.8 
0.88 
(0.75, 1.04) 
0.0641 
1 Investigator assessed GOG protocol-specified PFS analysis (neither censored for CA-125 progressions nor 
censored for NPT prior to disease progression) with data cut-off date of 25 February, 2010. 
2  Relative to the control arm; stratified hazard ratio. 
3 One-sided log-rank p-value 
4  Subject to a p-value boundary of 0.0116. 
5  Patients with measurable disease at baseline. 
6 Final OS analysis performed when 46.9% of the patients had died. 
Prespecified PFS analyses were conducted, all with a cut-off date of 29 September 2009. The results  of 
these prespecified analyses are as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
The protocol specified analysis of investigator-assessed PFS (without censoring for CA-125 
progression or non-protocol therapy [NPT]) shows a stratified hazard ratio of 0.71 (95% CI: 
0.61-0.83, 1-sided log-rank p-value < 0.0001) when CPB15+ is compared with CPP, with a 
median PFS of 10.4 months in the CPP arm and 14.1 months in the CPB15+ arm. 
The primary analysis of investigator-assessed PFS (censoring for CA-125 progressions and 
NPT) shows a stratified hazard ratio of 0.62 (95% CI: 0.52-0.75, 1-sided log-rank p-value < 
0.0001) when CPB15+ is compared with CPP, with a median PFS of 12.0 months in the  CPP 
arm and 18.2 months in the CPB15+ arm. 
The analysis of PFS as determined by the independent review committee (censoring for NPT) 
shows a stratified hazard ratio of 0.62 (95% CI: 0.50-0.77, 1-sided log-rank p-value < 0.0001) 
when CPB15+ is compared with CPP, with a median PFS of 13.1 in the CPP arm and 19.1 
months in the CPB15+ arm. 
PFS subgroup analyses by disease stage and debulking status are summarised in Table 17. These 
results demonstrate robustness of the analysis of PFS as shown in Table 16. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17 
PFS1 results by disease stage and debulking status from study GOG-0218 
Randomised patients stage III optimally debulked disease 
2,3
Median PFS (months) 
4
Hazard ratio (95% CI)
CPP 
(n = 219) 
12.4 
CPB15 
(n = 204) 
14.3 
0.81 
(0.62, 1.05) 
3
Randomised patients with stage III suboptimally debulked disease
Median PFS (months) 
4
Hazard ratio (95% CI)
CPP 
(n = 253) 
10.1 
CPB15 
(n = 256) 
10.9 
0.93 
(0.77, 1.14) 
Randomised patients with stage IV disease 
CPB15+ 
(n = 216) 
17.5 
0.66 
(0.50, 0.86) 
CPB15+ 
(n = 242) 
13.9 
0.78 
(0.63, 0.96) 
CPB15+ 
(n = 165) 
12.8 
0.64 
(0.49, 0.82) 
1 Investigator assessed GOG protocol-specified PFS analysis (neither censored for CA-125 progressions nor 
CPB15 
(n = 165) 
10.4 
0.90 
(0.70, 1.16) 
Median PFS (months) 
4
Hazard ratio (95% CI)
CPP 
(n = 153) 
9.5 
censored for NPT prior to disease progression) with data cut-off date of 25 February 2010 
2 With gross residual disease 
3 3.7% of the overall randomised patient population had Stage IIIB disease 
4 Relative to the control arm. 
BO17707 (ICON7) 
BO17707 was a Phase III, two arm, multicentre, randomised, controlled, open-label study comparing 
the effect of adding bevacizumab to carboplatin plus paclitaxel in patients with FIGO stage I or IIA 
(Grade 3 or clear cell histology only; n = 142), or FIGO stage IIB - IV (all Grades and all histological 
types, n = 1386) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer following surgery 
(NCI-CTCAE v.3). FIGO staging version dated 1988 was used in this trial. 
Patients who had received prior therapy with bevacizumab or prior systemic anticancer therapy for 
ovarian cancer (e.g. chemotherapy, monoclonal antibody therapy, tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy, or 
hormonal therapy) or previous radiotherapy to the abdomen or pelvis were excluded from the study. 
A total of 1528 patients were randomised in equal proportions to the following two arms: 
• 
• 
CP arm: Carboplatin (AUC 6) and paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) for 6 cycles of 3 weeks duration 
CPB7.5+ arm: Carboplatin (AUC 6) and paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) for 6 cycles of 3 weeks plus 
bevacizumab (7.5 mg/kg q3w) for up to 12 months (bevacizumab was started at cycle 2 of 
chemotherapy if treatment was initiated within 4 weeks of surgery or at cycle 1 if treatment was 
initiated  more than 4 weeks after surgery). 
The majority of patients included in the study were White (96%), the median age was 57 years in both 
treatment arms, 25% of patients in each treatment arm were 65 years of age or over, and  approximately 
50% of patients had an ECOG PS of 1; 7% of patients in each treatment arm had an  ECOG PS of 2. 
The majority of patients had EOC (87.7%) followed by PPC (6.9%) and FTC (3.7%) or a mixture of 
the three origins (1.7%). Most patients were FIGO Stage III (both 68%) followed by FIGO Stage IV 
(13% and 14%), FIGO Stage II (10% and 11%) and FIGO Stage I (9% and 7%). The  majority of the 
patients in each treatment arm (74% and 71%) had poorly differentiated (Grade 3) primary tumours at 
baseline. The incidence of each histologic sub-type of EOC was similar between the treatment arms; 
69% of patients in each treatment arm had serous adenocarcinoma histologic type. 
The primary endpoint was PFS as assessed by the investigator using RECIST. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trial met its primary objective of PFS improvement. Compared to patients treated with 
chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel) alone in the front-line setting, patients who received 
bevacizumab at a dose of 7.5 mg/kg q3w in combination with chemotherapy and continued to receive 
bevacizumab for up to 18 cycles had a statistically significant improvement in PFS. 
The results of this study are summarised in Table 18. 
Table 18  Efficacy results from study BO17707 (ICON7) 
Progression-free survival 
2
Median PFS (months) 
2
Hazard ratio [95% CI] 
1
Objective response rate 
Response rate 
Overall survival 
3 
Median (months) 
Hazard ratio [95% CI] 
CP 
(n = 764) 
16.9 
CP 
(n = 277) 
54.9% 
CP 
(n = 764) 
58.0 
CPB7.5+ (n =764) 
19.3 
0.86 [0.75; 0.98] 
(p-value = 0.0185) 
CPB7.5+ (n = 272) 
(p-value = 0.0188) 
64.7% 
CPB7.5+ (n =764) 
57.4 
0.99 [0. 85; 1. 15] 
(p-value = 0. 8910) 
1  In patients with measurable disease at baseline. 
2  Investigator assessed PFS analysis with data cut-off date of 30 November 2010. 
3  Final OS analysis performed when 46.7% of the patients had died with data cut-off date of 31 March 2013. 
The primary analysis of investigator-assessed PFS with a data cut-off date of 28 February 2010 shows 
an unstratified hazard ratio of 0.79 (95% CI: 0.68-0.91, 2-sided log-rank p-value 0.0010) with a 
median PFS of 16.0 months in the CP arm and 18.3 months in the CPB7.5+ arm. 
PFS subgroup analyses by disease stage and debulking status are summarised in Table 19. These 
results demonstrate robustness of the primary analysis of PFS as shown in Table 18. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19 
PFS1  results by disease stage and debulking status from study BO17707 (ICON7) 
Randomised patients stage III optimally debulked disease 
2,3
Median PFS (months) 
4
Hazard ratio (95% CI)
CP 
(n = 368) 
17.7 
3
Randomised patients with stage III suboptimally debulked disease
Median PFS (months) 
4
Hazard ratio (95% CI)
Randomised patients with stage IV disease 
Median PFS (months) 
4
Hazard ratio (95% CI)
CP 
(n = 154) 
10.1 
CP 
(n = 97) 
10.1 
1 Investigator assessed PFS analysis with data cut-off date of 30 November 2010. 
2 With or without gross residual disease. 
3 5.8% of the overall randomised patient population had Stage IIIB disease. 
4 Relative to the control arm. 
Recurrent ovarian cancer 
CPB7.5+ 
(n = 383) 
19.3 
0.89 
(0.74, 1.07) 
CPB7.5+ 
(n = 140) 
16.9 
0.67 
(0.52, 0.87) 
CPB7.5+ 
(n = 104) 
13.5 
0.74 
(0.55, 1.01) 
The safety and efficacy of bevacizumab in the treatment of recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube 
or  primary peritoneal cancer was studied in three phase III trials (AVF4095g, MO22224 and 
GOG-0213) with different patient populations and chemotherapy regimens. 
● 
● 
AVF4095g evaluated the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab in combination with carboplatin 
and gemcitabine, followed by bevacizumab as a single agent in patients with platinum-sensitive 
recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. 
GOG-0213 evaluated the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab in combination with carboplatin and 
paclitaxel, followed by bevacizumab as a single agent in patients with platinum-sensitive 
recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. 
●  MO22224 evaluated the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel, 
topotecan, or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in patients with platinum-resistant recurrent 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. 
AVF4095g 
The safety and efficacy of bevacizumab in the treatment of patients with platinum-sensitive, recurrent 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer, who have not received prior 
chemotherapy in the recurrent setting or prior bevacizumab treatment, was studied in a phase III 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (AVF4095g). The study compared the effect of 
adding bevacizumab to carboplatin and gemcitabine chemotherapy and continuing bevacizumab as a 
single agent to progression, to carboplatin and gemcitabine alone. 
Only patients with histologically documented ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma 
that had recurred > 6 months after platinum-based chemotherapy and who had not received 
chemotherapy in the recurrent setting and who have not received prior therapy with bevacizumab or 
other VEGF inhibitors or VEGF receptor–targeted agents were included in the study. 
A total of 484 patients with measurable disease were randomised 1:1 to either: 
● 
Carboplatin (AUC4, Day 1) and gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2 on Days 1 and 8) and concurrent 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
● 
placebo every 3 weeks for 6 and up to 10 cycles followed by placebo (every 3 weeks) alone  until 
disease progression or unacceptable toxicity 
Carboplatin (AUC4, Day 1) and gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2 on Days 1 and 8) and concurrent 
bevacizumab (15 mg/kg Day 1) every 3 weeks for 6 and up to 10 cycles followed by 
bevacizumab (15 mg/kg every 3 weeks) alone until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity 
The primary endpoint was PFS based on investigator assessment using modified  RECIST 1.0. 
Additional endpoints included objective response, duration of response, OS and safety. An independent 
review of the primary endpoint was also conducted. 
The results of this study are summarised in Table 20. 
Table 20    Efficacy results from study AVF4095g 
Progression-free survival 
Investigator assessment 
IRC assessment 
Placebo+ C/G 
(n=242) 
Bevacizumab + 
C/G  (n=242) 
Placebo+ C/G 
(n=242) 
Bevacizumab + 
C/G  (n=242) 
8.4 
12.4 
0.524 [0.425, 0.645] 
<0.0001 
8.4 
12.4 
0.484 [0.388, 0.605] 
< 0.0001 
8.6 
12.3 
0.480 [0.377, 0.613] 
<0.0001 
8.6 
12.3 
0.451 [0.351, 0.580] 
<0.0001 
Investigator assessment 
IRC assessment 
Placebo+ C/G 
(n = 242) 
57.4% 
Bevacizumab + 
C/G   
(n = 242) 
78.5% 
Placebo+ C/G 
(n = 242) 
53.7% 
Bevacizumab + 
C/G 
(n = 242) 
74.8% 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
Placebo+ C/G   
(n = 242) 
32.9 
Bevacizumab + C/G 
(n = 242) 
33.6 
0.952 [0.771, 1.176] 
0.6479 
Not censored for NPT 
Median PFS (months) 
Hazard ratio  (95% CI) 
p –value 
Censored for NPT 
Median PFS (months) 
Hazard ratio  (95% CI) 
p –value 
Objective response rate 
% pts with objective 
response 
p –value 
Overall survival 
Median OS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
p-value 
PFS subgroup analyses depending on recurrence since last platinum therapy are summarised in Table 
21. 
Table 21 
Progression-free survival by time from last platinum therapy to recurrence 
Time from last platinum 
therapy to recurrence 
6 - 12 months (n=202) 
Median 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
> 12 months (n=282) 
Median 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Investigator assessment 
Placebo + C/G 
(n = 242) 
Bevacizumab + C/G 
(n = 242) 
0.41 (0.29 - 0.58) 
0.55 (0.41 - 0.73) 
11.9 
12.4 
8.0 
9.7 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GOG-0213 
GOG-0213, a phase III randomized controlled open label trial, studied the safety and efficacy of 
bevacizumab in the treatment of patients with platinum-sensitive, recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian 
tube or primary peritoneal cancer, who have not received prior chemotherapy in the recurrent setting. 
There was no exclusion criterion for prior anti-angiogenic therapy. The study evaluated the effect of 
adding bevacizumab to carboplatin+paclitaxel and continuing bevacizumab as a single agent until 
disease progression or unacceptable toxicity compared to carboplatin+paclitaxel alone. 
A total of 673 patients were randomized in equal proportions to the following two treatment arms: 
● 
CP arm: Carboplatin (AUC5) and paclitaxel (175 mg/m2 intravenous) every 3 weeks for 6 and up 
to 8  cycles. 
CPB arm: Carboplatin (AUC5) and paclitaxel (175 mg/m2 intravenous) and concurrent 
bevacizumab (15 mg/kg) every 3 weeks for 6 and up to 8 cycles, followed by bevacizumab (15 
mg/kg every 3 weeks) alone until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 
● 
Most patients in both the CP arm (80.4%) and the CPB arm (78.9%) were White. The median age was 
60.0 years in the CP arm and 59.0 years in the CPB arm. The majority of patients (CP: 64.6%; CPB: 
68.8%) were in the age category < 65 years. At baseline, most patients in both treatment arms had a 
GOG PS of 0 (CP: 82.4%: CPB; 80.7%) or 1 (CP: 16.7%: CPB; 18.1%). A GOG PS of 2 at baseline 
was reported in 0.9% of patients in the CP arm and in 1.2% of patients in the CPB arm. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was OS. The main secondary efficacy endpoint was PFS. Results are 
presented in Table 22. 
Table 22  Efficacy results1,2  from study GOG-0213 
CP (n=336) 
37.3 
CPB (n=337) 
42.6 
Primary endpoint 
Overall survival  
Median OS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) (eCRF)a 
p-value 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)  
(registration form)b 
p-value 
Secondary endpoint 
Progression-free survival 
Median PFS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
p-value 
1   Final Analysis 
2  Tumour assessments and response evaluations were determined by the investigators using the GOG  RECIST criteria 
(Revised RECIST guideline (version 1.1). Eur J Cancer. 2009;45:228Y247). 
0.823 [CI: 0.680, 0.996] 
0.0447 
0.838 [CI: 0.693, 1.014] 
0.613 [CI: 0.521, 0.721] 
<0.0001 
CPB (n=337) 
13.8 
CP (n=336) 
10.2 
0.0683 
a Hazard ratio was estimated from Cox proportional hazards models stratified by the duration of platinum free-interval prior  to 
enrolling onto this study per eCRF (electronic case report form) and secondary surgical debulking status Yes/No 
(Yes=randomized to undergo cytoreduction or randomized to not undergo cytoreduction; No= not a candidate or did not 
consent to cytoreduction). 
b  stratified by the duration of treatment free-interval prior to enrolling onto this study per the  registration form, and secondary 
surgical debulking status Yes/No. 
The trial met its primary objective of OS improvement. Treatment with bevacizumab at 15 mg/kg every 
3 weeks in combination with chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel) for 6 and up to  
8 cycles, followed by bevacizumab until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity resulted, when 
data were derived from eCRF, in a clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement in 
OS compared to treatment with carboplatin and paclitaxel alone. 
MO22224 
Study MO22224 evaluated the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. This 
study was designed as an open-label, randomized, two-arm Phase III evaluation of bevacizumab plus 
chemotherapy (CT+BV) versus chemotherapy alone (CT). 
A total of 361 patients were enrolled into this study and administered either chemotherapy (paclitaxel, 
topotecan, or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) alone or in combination with bevacizumab: 
• 
• 
CT arm (chemotherapy alone): 
• 
Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 as a 1-hour intravenous infusion on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 every 4 
weeks. 
Topotecan 4 mg/m2 as a 30-minute intravenous infusion on Days 1, 8, and 15 every 4 
weeks. Alternatively, a 1.25 mg/m2 dose could be administered over 30 minutes on Days 
1–5 every 3 weeks. 
PLD 40 mg/m2 as a 1 mg/min intravenous infusion on Day 1 only every 4 weeks. After 
Cycle  1, the medicinal product could be delivered as a 1-hour infusion. 
• 
• 
CT+BV arm (chemotherapy plus bevacizumab): 
• 
The chosen chemotherapy was combined with bevacizumab 10 mg/kg intravenous every 2 
weeks (or bevacizumab 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks if used in combination with  topotecan 
1.25 mg/m2 on Days 1–5 every 3 weeks). 
Eligible patients had epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer that progressed 
within <6 months of previous platinum therapy consisting of a minimum of 4 platinum therapy cycles. 
Patients should have had a life expectancy of ≥ 12 weeks and no prior radiotherapy to the pelvis or 
abdomen. Most patients were FIGO Stage IIIC or Stage IV. The majority of patients in both arms had 
an ECOG Performance Status (PS) of 0 (CT: 56.4% vs. CT + BV: 61.2%). The percentage of patients 
with an ECOG PS of 1 or ≥ 2 was 38.7% and 5.0% in the CT arm, and 29.8% and 9.0% in the CT + BV 
arm. Information on race exists for 29.3% of patients and nearly all patients were white. The median 
age of patients was 61.0 (range: 25−84) years.  A total of 16 patients (4.4%) were > 75 years old. The 
overall rates of discontinuation due to adverse events were 8.8% in the CT arm and 43.6% in  the CT + 
BV arm (mostly due to Grade 2-3 adverse events) and the median time to discontinuation in  the CT + 
BV arm was 5.2 months compared with 2.4 months in the CT arm. The rates of discontinuation due to 
adverse events in the subgroup of patients > 65 years old were 8.8% in the CT arm and 50.0% in the 
CT + BV arm. The HR for PFS was 0.47 (95% CI: 0.35, 0.62) and 0.45 (95% CI: 0.31, 0.67) for the 
< 65 and ≥ 65 subgroups, respectively. 
The primary endpoint was progression-free survival, with secondary endpoints including objective 
response rate and OS. Results are presented in Table 23. 
Table 23  Efficacy results from study MO22224 
Progression-free survival* 
Median (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
p-value 
Objective response rate** 
Primary endpoint 
CT (n=182) 
3.4 
CT+BV (n=179) 
6.7 
0.379 [0.296, 0.485] 
< 0.0001 
Secondary endpoints 
% patients with objective response 
p –value 
Overall survival (final analysis)*** 
Median OS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
p-value 
CT (n=144) 
18 (12.5%) 
CT+BV (n=142) 
40 (28.2%) 
0.0007 
CT (n=182) 
13.3 
CT+BV (n=179) 
16.6 
0.870 [0.678, 1.116] 
0.2711 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All analyses presented in this table are stratified analyses. 
*Primary analysis was performed with a data cut-off date of 14 November 2011. 
**Randomized Patients with Measurable Disease at Baseline. 
***The final analysis of OS was performed when 266 deaths, which account for 73.7 % of enrolled  patients, were 
observed. 
The trial met its primary objective of PFS improvement. Compared to patients treated with 
chemotherapy (paclitaxel, topotecan or PLD) alone in the recurrent platinum-resistant setting, patients 
who received bevacizumab at a dose of 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks (or 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks if used in 
combination with 1.25 mg/m2 topotecan on Days 1–5 every 3 weeks) in combination with 
chemotherapy and continued to receive bevacizumab until disease progression or unacceptable  toxicity, 
had a statistically significant improvement in PFS. The exploratory PFS and OS analyses by 
chemotherapy cohort (paclitaxel, topotecan and PLD) are summarized in Table 24. 
Table 24  Exploratory PFS and OS analyses by chemotherapy cohort 
Paclitaxel 
Median PFS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Median OS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Topotecan 
Median PFS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Median OS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
PLD 
Median PFS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Median OS (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Cervical cancer 
CT 
3.9 
13.2 
2.1 
13.3 
3.5 
14.1 
n=115 
0.47 [0.31, 0.72] 
0.64 [0.41, 0.99] 
n=120 
0.28 [0.18, 0.44] 
1.07 [0.70, 1.63] 
n=126 
0.53 [0.36, 0.77] 
0.91 [0.61, 1.35] 
CT+BV 
9.2 
22.4 
6.2 
13.8 
5.1 
13.7 
GOG-0240 
The efficacy and safety of bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy (paclitaxel and cisplatin or 
paclitaxel and topotecan) in the treatment for patients with persistent, recurrent or metastatic  carcinoma 
of the cervix was evaluated in study GOG-0240, a randomised, four-arm, open label, multi-centre phase 
III trial. 
A total of 452 patients were randomised to receive either: 
• 
• 
Paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 intravenous over 24 hours on Day 1 and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 intravenous on 
Day 2, every 3  weeks (q3w); or 
Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 intravenous over 3 hours on Day 1 and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 intravenous on 
Day 2 (q3w); or  Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 intravenous over 3 hours on Day 1 and cisplatin 50 
mg/m2 intravenous on Day 1 (q3w) 
Paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 intravenous over 24 hours on Day 1 and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 intravenous on 
Day 2 plus  bevacizumab 15 mg/kg intravenous on Day 2 (q3w); or 
Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 intravenous over 3 hours on Day 1 and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 intravenous on 
Day 2 plus  bevacizumab 15 mg/kg intravenous on Day 2 (q3w); or 
Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 intravenous over 3 hours on Day 1 and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 intravenous on 
Day 1 plus  bevacizumab 15 mg/kg intravenous on Day 1 (q3w) 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 intravenous over 3 hours on Day 1 and topotecan 0.75 mg/m2 intravenous 
over 30 minutes  on days 1-3 (q3w) 
Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 intravenous over 3 hours on Day 1 and topotecan 0.75 mg/m2 intravenous 
over 30 minutes  on Days 1-3 plus bevacizumab 15 mg/kg intravenous on Day 1 (q3w) 
Eligible patients had persistent, recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma, adenosquamous 
carcinoma, or adenocarcinoma of the cervix which was not amenable to curative treatment with surgery 
and/or radiation therapy and who have not received prior therapy with bevacizumab or other VEGF 
inhibitors or VEGF receptor–targeted agents. The median age was 46.0 years (range: 20−83) in the 
Chemo alone group and 48.0 years (range: 22−85) in the Chemo+bevacizumab group; with 9.3% of 
patients in the Chemo alone group and  7.5% of patients in the Chemo+bevacizumab group over the 
age of 65 years. 
Of the 452 patients randomized at baseline, the majority of patients were white (80.0% in the Chemo 
alone group and 75.3% in the Chemo+bevacizumab group), had squamous cell carcinoma (67.1% in the 
Chemo alone group and 69.6% in the  Chemo+bevacizumab group), had persistent/recurrent disease 
(83.6%  in the Chemo alone group and 82.8% in the Chemo+bevacizumab group), had 1-2 metastatic 
sites (72.0%  in the Chemo alone group and 76.2% in the Chemo+bevacizumab group), had lymph 
node involvement (50.2% in the Chemo alone group and 56.4% in the Chemo+bevacizumab group), 
and had a platinum free interval ≥ 6 months (72.5% in the Chemo alone group and 64.4% in the 
Chemo+bevacizumab group). 
The primary efficacy endpoint was OS. Secondary efficacy endpoints included PFS and objective 
response rate. Results from the primary analysis and the follow-up analysis are presented by 
bevacizumab treatment and by trial treatment in Table 25 and Table 26, respectively. 
Table 25  Efficacy results from study GOG-0240 by bevacizumab treatment 
Chemotherapy 
(n=225) 
Primary endpoint 
Chemotherapy + 
Bevacizumab   
(n=227) 
6
Overall survival – primary analysis
Median (months)1 
Hazard ratio [95% CI] 
Overall survival – follow-up analysis7 
Median (months)1 
Hazard ratio [95% CI] 
12.9 
13.3 
0.74 [0.58, 0.94] 
(p-value5 = 0.0132) 
0.76 [0.62, 0.94] 
(p-value5,8 = 0.0126) 
Progression-free survival – primary analysis6 
Median PFS (months)1 
Hazard ratio [95% CI] 
6.0 
Secondary endpoints 
0.66 [0.54, 0.81] 
(p-value5 <0.0001) 
16.8 
16.8 
8.3 
Best overall response – primary analysis6 
Responders (response rate2) 
95% CI for response rates3 
Difference in response rates 
95% CI for difference in response rates4 
p-value (chi-squared test) 
76 (33.8 %) 
[27.6%, 40.4%] 
103 (45.4 %) 
[38.8%, 52.1%] 
11.60% 
[2.4%, 20.8%] 
0.0117 
1  Kaplan-Meier estimates 
2  Patients and percentage of patients with best overall response of confirmed CR or PR; percentage calculated on 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients with measurable disease at baseline 
3  95% CI for one sample binomial using Pearson-Clopper method 
4  Approximate 95% CI for difference of two rates using Hauck-Anderson method 
5  log-rank test (stratified) 
6  Primary analysis was performed with a data cut-off date of 12 December 2012 and is considered the final 
analysis 
7  Follow-up analysis was performed with a data cut-off date of 07 March 2014 
8  p-value displayed for descriptive purpose only 
Table 26  Overall survival results from study GOG-0240 by trial treatment 
Treatment 
comparison 
Bevacizumab 
vs. No 
Bevacizumab 
Topotecan+ 
Paclitaxel vs. 
Cisplatin+ 
Paclitaxel 
Other factor 
Cisplatin+ 
Paclitaxel 
Topotecan+ 
Paclitaxel 
Bevacizumab 
No Bevacizumab 
Overall survival - primary 
analysis1 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.72 (0.51, 1.02) 
(17.5 vs.14.3 months;  
p = 0.0609) 
0.76 (0.55, 1.06) 
(14.9 vs. 11.9 months;  
p = 0.1061) 
1.15 (0.82, 1.61) 
(14.9 vs. 17.5 months;  
p = 0.4146) 
1.13 (0.81, 1.57) 
(11.9 vs.14.3 months;  
p = 0.4825) 
Overall survival - follow-up 
analysis2 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.75 (0.55, 1.01) 
(17.5 vs.15.0 months;  
p = 0.0584) 
0.79 (0.59, 1.07) 
(16.2 vs. 12.0 months;  
p = 0.1342) 
1.15 (0.85, 1.56) 
(16.2 vs 17.5 months;  
p = 0.3769) 
1.08 (0.80, 1.45) 
(12.0 vs 15.0 months;  
p = 0.6267) 
1  Primary analysis was performed with a data cut-off date of 12 December 2012 and is considered the final 
analysis 
2  Follow-up analysis was performed with a data cut-off date of 07 March 2014; all p-values are displayed for 
descriptive purpose only 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies, in all 
subsets of the paediatric population, in breast carcinoma, adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum, 
lung carcinoma (small cell and non-small cell carcinoma), kidney and renal pelvis carcinoma 
(excluding nephroblastoma, nephroblastomatosis, clear cell sarcoma, mesoblastic nephroma, renal 
medullary carcinoma and rhabdoid tumour of the kidney), ovarian carcinoma (excluding 
rhabdomyosarcoma and germ cell tumours), fallopian tube carcinoma (excluding rhabdomyosarcoma 
and germ cell tumours), peritoneal carcinoma (excluding blastomas and sarcomas) and cervix and 
corpus uteri carcinoma. 
High-grade glioma 
Anti-tumour activity was not observed in two earlier studies among a total of 30 children aged > 3 
years old with relapsed or progressive high-grade glioma when treated with bevacizumab and 
irinotecan (CPT-11). There is insufficient information to determine the safety and efficacy of 
bevacizumab in children with newly-diagnosed high-grade glioma. 
• 
• 
In a single-arm study (PBTC-022), 18 children with recurrent or progressive non-pontine 
high-grade glioma (including 8 with glioblastoma [WHO Grade IV], 9 with anaplastic 
astrocytoma [Grade III] and 1 with anaplastic oligodendroglioma [Grade III]) were treated with 
bevacizumab (10 mg/kg) two weeks apart and then with bevacizumab in combination  with 
CPT-11 (125-350 mg/m²) once every two weeks until progression. There were no objective 
(partial or complete) radiological responses (MacDonald criteria). Toxicity and  adverse 
reactions included arterial hypertension and fatigue as well as CNS ischaemia with  acute 
neurological deficit. 
In a retrospective single institution series, 12 consecutive (2005 to 2008) children with  relapsed 
or progressive high-grade glioma (3 with WHO Grade IV, 9 with Grade III) were  treated with 
bevacizumab (10 mg/kg) and irinotecan (125 mg/m²) every 2 weeks. There were  no complete 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
responses and 2 partial responses (MacDonald criteria). 
In a randomized phase II study (BO25041) a total of 121 patients aged ≥ 3 years to <18 years with 
newly diagnosed supratentorial or infratentorial cerebellar or peduncular high-grade glioma (HGG) 
were treated with post operative radiation therapy (RT) and adjuvant temozolomide (T) with and 
without bevacizumab: 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks intravenous. 
The study did not meet its primary endpoint of demonstrating a significant improvement of EFS 
(Central Radiology Review Committee (CRRC)-assessed) when bevacizumab was added to the RT/T 
arm compared with RT/T alone (HR = 1.44; 95% CI: 0.90, 2.30). These results were consistent with 
those from various sensitivity analyses and in clinically relevant subgroups. The results for all 
secondary endpoints (investigator assessed EFS, and ORR and OS) were consistent in showing no 
improvement associated with the addition of bevacizumab to the RT/T arm compared with the RT/T 
arm alone. 
Addition of bevacizumab to RT/T did not demonstrate clinical benefit in study BO25041 in 60 
evaluable children patients with newly diagnosed supratentorial or infratentorial cerebellar or 
peduncular high-grade glioma (HGG) (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
Soft tissue sarcoma 
In a randomized phase II study (BO20924) a total of 154 patients aged ≥ 6 months to <18 years with 
newly diagnosed metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma and non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma were 
treated with standard of care (Induction IVADO/IVA± local therapy followed by Maintenance 
Vinorelbine and cyclophosphamide) with or without bevacizumab (2.5 mg/kg/week) for a total 
duration of treatment of approximately 18 months. At the time of the final primary analysis, the 
primary endpoint of EFS by independent central review did not show a statistically significant 
difference between the two treatment arms, with HR of 0.93 (95% CI: 0.61, 1.41; p-value = 0.72).  
The difference in ORR per independent central review was 18% (CI: 0.6%, 35.3%) between the two 
treatment arms in the few patients who had evaluable tumor at baseline and had a confirmed response 
prior to receiving any local therapy : 27/75 patients (36.0%, 95% CI: 25.2%, 47.9%) in the Chemo arm 
and 34/63 patients (54.0%, 95% CI: 40.9%, 66.6%) in the Bv + Chemo arm. The final OS analyses 
showed no significant clinical benefit from addition of bevacizumab to chemotherapy in this patient 
population. 
Addition of bevacizumab to standard of care did not demonstrate clinical benefit in clinical trial 
BO20924, in 71 evaluable children (from age 6 months to less than 18 years old) patients with 
metastatic Rhabdomyosarcoma and non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
The incidence of AEs, including Grade ≥ 3 Aes and SAEs, was similar between the two treatment 
arms. No Aes leading to death occurred in either treatment arm; all deaths were attributed to disease 
progression. Bevacizumab addition to multimodal standard of care treatment seemed to be tolerated in 
this paediatric population. 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetic data for bevacizumab are available from ten clinical trials in patients with solid 
tumours. In all clinical trials, bevacizumab was administered as an intravenous infusion. The rate of 
infusion was based on tolerability, with an initial infusion duration of 90 minutes. The 
pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab was linear at doses ranging from 1 to 10 mg/kg. 
Distribution 
The typical value for central volume (Vc) was 2.73 L and 3.28 L for female and male patients 
respectively, which is in the range that has been described for IgGs and other monoclonal antibodies. 
The typical value for peripheral volume (Vp) was 1.69 L and 2.35 L for female and male patients 
respectively, when bevacizumab is co-administered with anti-neoplastic agents. After correcting for 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
body weight, male patients had a larger Vc (+ 20%) than female patients. 
Biotransfor mation 
Assessment of bevacizumab metabolism in rabbits following a single intravenous dose of 
125I-bevacizumab indicated that its metabolic profile was similar to that expected for a native IgG 
molecule which does not bind VEGF. The metabolism and elimination of bevacizumab is similar to 
endogenous IgG i.e. primarily via proteolytic catabolism throughout the body, including endothelial 
cells, and does not rely primarily on elimination through the kidneys and liver. Binding of the IgG to 
the FcRn receptor results in protection from cellular metabolism and the long terminal half-life. 
Elimination 
The value for clearance is, on average, equal to 0.188 and 0.220 L/day for female and male patients, 
respectively. After correcting for body weight, male patients had a higher bevacizumab clearance (+ 
17%) than females. According to the two-compartmental model, the elimination half-life is 18 days  for 
a typical female patient and 20 days for a typical male patient. 
Low albumin and high tumour burden are generally indicative of disease severity. Bevacizumab 
clearance was approximately 30% faster in patients with low levels of serum albumin and 7% faster in 
subjects with higher tumour burden when compared with a typical patient with median values of 
albumin and tumour burden. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
The population pharmacokinetics were analysed in adult and paediatric patients to evaluate the effects 
of demographic characteristics. In adults, the results showed no significant difference in the 
pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab in relation to age. 
Renal impairment 
No trials have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab in renally impaired 
patients since the kidneys are not a major organ for bevacizumab metabolism or excretion. 
Hepatic impairment 
No trials have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab in patients with 
hepatic impairment since the liver is not a major organ for bevacizumab metabolism or excretion. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab were evaluated in 152 children, adolescents and young adults  (7 
months to 21 years, 5.9 to 125 kg) across 4 clinical studies using a population pharmacokinetic  model. 
The pharmacokinetic results show that the clearance and volume of distribution of bevacizumab were 
comparable between paediatric and young adult patients when normalized by body weight, with 
exposure trending lower as body weight decreased. Age was not associated with the pharmacokinetics 
of bevacizumab when body weight was taken into account. 
The pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab was well characterized by the paediatric population PK model 
for 70 patients in Study BO20924 (1.4 to 17.6 years; 11.6 to 77.5 kg) and 59 patients in Study 
BO25041 (1 to 17 years; 11.2 to 82.3 kg). In Study BO20924, bevacizumab exposure was generally 
lower compared to a typical adult patient at the same dose. In Study BO25041, bevacizumab exposure 
was similar compared to a typical adult at the same dose. In both studies, bevacizumab exposure 
trended lower as body weight decreased. 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data 
In studies of up to 26 weeks duration in cynomolgus monkeys, physeal dysplasia was observed in 
young animals with open growth plates, at bevacizumab average serum concentrations below the 
expected human therapeutic average serum concentrations. In rabbits, bevacizumab was shown to 
inhibit wound healing at doses below the proposed clinical dose. Effects on wound healing were 
shown to be fully reversible. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies to evaluate the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of bevacizumab have not been  performed. 
No specific studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate the effect on fertility. An adverse  effect 
on female fertility can however be expected as repeat dose toxicity studies in animals have shown 
inhibition of the maturation of ovarian follicles and a decrease/absence of corpora lutea and associated 
decrease in ovarian and uterus weight as well as a decrease in the number of menstrual cycles. 
Bevacizumab has been shown to be embryotoxic and teratogenic when administered to rabbits. 
Observed effects included decreases in maternal and foetal body weights, an increased number of 
foetal resorptions and an increased incidence of specific gross and skeletal foetal malformations. 
Adverse foetal outcomes were observed at all tested doses, of which the lowest dose resulted in 
average serum concentrations approximately 3 times larger than in humans receiving 5 mg/kg every  2 
weeks. Information on foetal malformations observed in the post marketing setting are provided in 
section 4.6 Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation and 4.8 Undesirable Effects. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
Trehalose dihydrate 
Sodium phosphate 
Polysorbate 20 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
A concentration dependent degradation profile of bevacizumab was observed when diluted with 
glucose solutions (5%). 
6.3 
Shelf life 
Unopened vial  
3 years (100 mg/ 4 mL). 
4 years (400 mg/ 16 mL). 
Diluted medicinal product 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for a period of up to 60 days at 2°C to 8°C 
after dilution and a  period of up  to 7  days at temperatures  not exceeding  30°C in  sodium  chloride  9 
mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used 
immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the 
user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
4 mL solution in a vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (chlorobutyl rubber) containing 100 mg of 
bevacizumab. 
16 mL solution in a vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (chlorobutyl rubber) containing 400 mg of 
bevacizumab. 
Pack sizes of 1 and 10 vials.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
VEGZELMA should be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique to ensure the 
sterility of the prepared solution. A sterile needle and syringe should be used to prepare VEGZELMA. 
The necessary amount of bevacizumab should be withdrawn and diluted to the required administration 
volume with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. The concentration of the final 
bevacizumab solution should be kept within the range of 1.4 mg/mL to 16.5 mg/mL. In the majority of 
the occasions the necessary amount of VEGZELMA can be diluted with 0.9 % sodium chloride 
solution for  injection to a total volume of 100 mL. 
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration 
prior to administration. 
No incompatibilities between VEGZELMA and polyolefine bags or infusion sets have been observed. 
VEGZELMA is for single-use only, as the product contains no preservatives. Any unused medicinal 
product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local requirements. 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
VEGZELMA 100mg 
EU/1/22/1667/001 
EU/1/22/1667/003 
VEGZELMA 400mg 
EU/1/22/1667/002 
EU/1/22/1667/004 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
9. 
Date of first authorization: 17 August 2022 
Date of latest renewal: 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agency (EMA): http://www.ema.europa.eu 
51 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.   MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B. 
C. 
D.  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
CELLTRION INC. 
20 Academy -ro 51 beon-gil 
Yeonsu-gu 
22014 Incheon 
Republic of Korea 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstraße 13 
89231 Neu Ulm 
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles 
06410, Sophia Antipolis 
France 
Kymos S.L. 
Ronda Can Fatjó 7B 
(Parque Tecnológico del Vallès) Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
08290 Barcelona, 
Spain 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstraße 49 
55218 Ingelheim am Rhein 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
● 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
● 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency. 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
54 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VEGZELMA 25 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
bevacizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 100 mg bevacizumab in 4 mL of concentrate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Trehalose dihydrate, sodium phosphate, polysorbate 20, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial of 4 mL 
10 vials of 4 mL 
100mg / 4mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator (2ºC - 8ºC). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1667/001 1 vial 
EU/1/22/1667/003 10 vials 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
VEGZELMA 25 mg/mL Sterile concentrate 
bevacizumab 
IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
For IV use after dilution 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
100 mg/4 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VEGZELMA 25 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
bevacizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 400 mg of bevacizumab in 16 mL of concentrate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Trehalose dihydrate, sodium phosphate, polysorbate 20, water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial of 16 mL 
10 vials of 16 mL 
400mg / 16mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator (2ºC - 8ºC). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1667/002 1 vial 
EU/1/22/1667/004 10 vials  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
VEGZELMA 25 mg/mL Sterile concentrate 
bevacizumab 
IV  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
For IV use after dilution 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
400 mg/16 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
VEGZELMA 25mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
bevacizumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist or nurse 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What VEGZELMA is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given VEGZELMA  
3.  How to use VEGZELMA  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store VEGZELMA  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What VEGZELMA is and what it is used for 
VEGZELMA contains the active substance bevacizumab, which is a humanised monoclonal antibody 
(a type of protein that is normally made by the immune system to help defend the body from infection 
and cancer). Bevacizumab binds selectively to a protein called human vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF), which is found on the lining of blood and lymph vessels in the body. The VEGF 
protein causes blood vessels to grow within tumours, these blood vessels provide the tumour with 
nutrients and oxygen. Once bevacizumab is bound to VEGF, tumour growth is prevented by blocking 
the growth of the blood vessels which provide the nutrients and oxygen to the tumour. 
VEGZELMA is a medicine used for the treatment of adult patients with advanced cancer in the large 
bowel, i.e., in the colon or rectum. VEGZELMA will be administered in combination with 
chemotherapy treatment containing a fluoropyrimidine medicine. 
VEGZELMA is also used for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic breast cancer. When used 
for patients with breast cancer, it will be administered with a chemotherapy medicinal product called 
paclitaxel or capecitabine. 
VEGZELMA is also used for the treatment of adult patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. 
VEGZELMA will be administered together with a chemotherapy regimen containing platinum. 
VEGZELMA is also used for the treatment of adult patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer 
when cancer cells have specific mutations of a protein called epidermal growth factor receptor 
(EGFR). VEGZELMA will be administered in combination with erlotinib. 
VEGZELMA is also used for treatment of adult patients with advanced kidney cancer. When used for 
patients with kidney cancer, it will be administered with another type of medicine called interferon. 
VEGZELMA is also used for the treatment of adult patients with advanced epithelial ovarian, 
fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. When used for patients with epithelial ovarian, fallopian 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tube, or primary peritoneal cancer, it will be administered in combination with carboplatin and 
paclitaxel. 
When used for those adult patients with advanced epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary 
peritoneal cancer whose disease has come back at least 6 months after the last time they were treated 
with a chemotherapy regimen containing a platinum agent, VEGZELMA will be administered in 
combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine or with carboplatin and paclitaxel. 
When used for those adult patients with advanced epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary 
peritoneal cancer whose disease has come back before 6 months after the last time they were treated 
with a chemotherapy regimen containing a platinum agent, VEGZELMA will be administered in 
combination with paclitaxel, or topotecan, or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin.  
VEGZELMA is also used for the treatment of adult patients with persistent, recurrent or metastatic 
cervical cancer. VEGZELMA will be administered in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin or, 
alternatively, paclitaxel and topotecan in patients who cannot receive platinum therapy.  
2. 
What you need to know before you are given VEGZELMA 
Do not use VEGZELMA if: 
● 
you are allergic (hypersensitive) to bevacizumab or to any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6).  
you are allergic (hypersensitive) to Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell products or to other 
recombinant human or humanised antibodies.  
you are pregnant. 
● 
● 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using VEGZELMA 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
It is possible that VEGZELMA may increase the risk of developing holes in the gut wall. If you 
have conditions causing inflammation inside the abdomen (e.g. diverticulitis, stomach ulcers, 
colitis associated with chemotherapy), please discuss this with your doctor.  
VEGZELMA may increase the risk of developing an abnormal connection or passageway 
between two organs or vessels. The risk of developing connections between the vagina and any 
parts of the gut can increase if you have persistent, recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer.  
VEGZELMA can increase the risk of bleeding or increase the risk of problems with wound 
healing after surgery. If you are going to have an operation, if you have had major surgery 
within the last 28 days or if you still have an unhealed wound following surgery, you should not 
receive this medicine.  
VEGZELMA may increase the risk of developing serious infections of the skin or deeper layers 
under the skin, especially if you had holes in the gut wall or problems with wound healing.  
VEGZELMA can increase the incidence of high blood pressure. If you have high blood pressure 
which is not well controlled with blood pressure medicines, please consult your doctor as it is 
important to make sure that your blood pressure is under control before starting VEGZELMA 
treatment.  
If you have or have had an aneurysm (enlargement and weakening of a blood vessel wall) or a 
tear in a blood vessel wall. 
VEGZELMA increases the risk of having protein in your urine especially if you already have 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
high blood pressure. 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
The risk of developing blood clots in your arteries (a type of blood vessel) can increase if you 
are over 65 years old, if you have diabetes, or if you have had previous blood clots in your 
arteries. Please talk to your doctor since blood clots can lead to heart attack and stroke. 
VEGZELMA can also increase the risk of developing blood clots in your veins (a type of blood 
vessel).  
VEGZELMA may cause bleeding, especially tumour-related bleeding. Please consult your 
doctor if you or your family tend to suffer from bleeding problems or you are taking medicines 
to thin the blood for any reason.  
It is possible that VEGZELMA may cause bleeding in and around your brain. Please discuss 
this with your doctor if you have metastatic cancer affecting your brain.  
It is possible that VEGZELMA can increase the risk of bleeding in your lungs, including 
coughing or spitting blood. Please discuss with your doctor if you noticed this previously.  
VEGZELMA can increase the risk of developing a weak heart. It is important that your doctor 
knows if you have ever received anthracyclines (for example doxorubicin, a specific type of 
chemotherapy used to treat some cancers) or had radiotherapy to your chest, or if you have heart 
disease.  
VEGZELMA may cause infections and a decreased number of your neutrophils (a type of blood 
cell important for your protection against bacteria).  
It is possible that VEGZELMA can cause hypersensitivity (including anaphylactic shock) 
and/or infusion reactions (reactions related to your injection of the medicine). Please let your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse know if you have previously experienced problems after injections, 
such as dizziness/feeling of fainting, breathlessness, swelling or skin rash.  
A rare neurological side effect named posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
has been associated with VEGZELMA treatment. If you have headache, vision changes, 
confusion or seizure with or without high blood pressure, please contact your doctor. 
Please consult your doctor, even if these above statements were only applicable to you in the past.  
Before you are given VEGZELMA or while you are being treated with VEGZELMA:  
● 
● 
if you have or have had pain in the mouth, teeth and/or jaw, swelling or sores inside the mouth, 
numbness or a feeling of heaviness in the jaw, or loosening of a tooth tell your doctor and 
dentist immediately.  
if you need to undergo an invasive dental treatment or dental surgery, tell your dentist that you 
are being treated with VEGZELMA (bevacizumab), in particular when you are also receiving or 
have received an injection of bisphosphonate into your blood.  
You may be advised to have a dental check-up before you start treatment with VEGZELMA. 
Children and adolescents 
VEGZELMA use is not recommended in children and adolescents under the age of 18 years because 
the safety and benefit have not been established in these patient populations. 
Death of bone tissue (osteonecrosis) in bones other than the jaw have been reported in patients under 
18 years old when treated with bevacizumab.  
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and VEGZELMA 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Combinations of VEGZELMA with another medicine called sunitinib malate (prescribed for renal and 
gastrointestinal cancer) may cause severe side effects. Discuss with your doctor to make sure that you 
do not combine these medicines.  
Tell your doctor if you are using platinum- or taxane-based therapies for lung or metastatic breast 
cancer. These therapies in combination with VEGZELMA may increase the risk of severe side effects.  
Please tell your doctor if you have recently received, or are receiving, radiotherapy.  
Pregnancy, breast feeding and fertility 
You must not use this medicine if you are pregnant. VEGZELMA may cause damage to your unborn 
baby as it may stop the formation of new blood vessels. You should be advised by your doctor about 
using contraception during treatment with VEGZELMA and for at least 6 months after the last dose of 
VEGZELMA.  
Tell your doctor straightaway if you are pregnant, become pregnant during treatment with this 
medicine, or plan to become pregnant in the near future.  
You must not breast-feed your baby during treatment with VEGZELMA and for at least 6 months 
after the last dose of VEGZELMA, as this medicine may interfere with the growth and development of 
your baby. 
VEGZELMA may impair female fertility. Please consult your doctor for more information.  
Ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse for advice before taking any medicine.  
Driving and using machines  
VEGZELMA has not been shown to reduce your ability to drive or to use any tools or machines. 
However, sleepiness and fainting have been reported with VEGZELMA use. If you experience 
symptoms that affect your vision or concentration, or your ability to react, do not drive and use 
machines until symptoms disappear.  
Important information about some of the ingredients of VEGZELMA  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.  
3. 
How to use VEGZELMA 
Dose and frequency of administration  
The dose of VEGZELMA needed depends on your body weight and the kind of cancer to be treated. 
The recommended dose is 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg or 15 mg per kilogram of your body weight. Your 
doctor will prescribe a dose of VEGZELMA that is right for you. You will be treated with 
VEGZELMA once every 2 or 3 weeks. The number of infusions that you receive will depend on how 
you are responding to treatment; you should continue to receive this medicine until VEGZELMA fails 
to stop your tumour growing. Your doctor will discuss this with you. 
Method and route of administration  
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
VEGZELMA is a concentrate for solution for infusion. Depending on the dose prescribed for you, 
some or all of the contents of the VEGZELMA vial will be diluted with sodium chloride solution 
before use. A doctor or nurse will give you this diluted VEGZELMA solution by intravenous infusion 
(a drip into your vein). The first infusion will be given to you over 90 minutes. If this is well-tolerated 
the second infusion may be given over 60 minutes. Later infusions may be given to you over 30 
minutes.  
The administration of VEGZELMA should be temporarily discontinued  
● 
● 
● 
if you develop severe high blood pressure requiring treatment with blood pressure medicines,  
if you have problems with wound healing following surgery,  
if you undergo surgery  
The administration of VEGZELMA should be permanently discontinued if you develop  
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
severe high blood pressure which cannot be controlled by blood pressure medicines; or a sudden 
severe rise in blood pressure,  
presence of protein in your urine accompanied by swelling of your body, 
a hole in your gut wall,  
an abnormal tube-like connection or passage between the windpipe and the gullet, between 
internal organs and skin, between the vagina and any parts of the gut or between other tissues 
that are not normally connected (fistula), and are judged by your doctor to be severe,  
serious infections of the skin or deeper layers under the skin,  
a blood clot in your arteries,  
a blood clot in the blood vessels of your lungs,  
any severe bleeding. 
If too much VEGZELMA is given  
● 
you may develop a severe migraine. If this happens you should talk to your doctor, pharmacist 
or nurse immediately.  
If a dose of VEGZELMA is missed  
● 
your doctor will decide when you should be given your next dose of VEGZELMA. You should 
discuss this with your doctor.  
If you stop treatment with VEGZELMA  
Stopping your treatment with VEGZELMA may stop the effect on tumour growth. Do not stop 
treatment with VEGZELMA unless you have discussed this with your doctor.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet.  
The side effects listed below were seen when VEGZELMA was given together with chemotherapy. 
This does not necessarily mean that these side effects were strictly caused by VEGZELMA.  
Allergic reactions  
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have an allergic reaction, tell your doctor or a member of the medical staff straight away. The 
signs may include: difficulty in breathing or chest pain. You could also experience redness or flushing 
of the skin or a rash, chills and shivering, feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting), swelling, 
lightheadedness, fast heartbeat and loss of consciousness. 
You should seek help immediately if you suffer from any of the below mentioned side effects.  
Severe side effects, which may be very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people), include:  
● 
● 
● 
high blood pressure,  
feeling of numbness or tingling in hands or feet,  
decreased number of cells in the blood, including white cells that help to fight against infections 
(this may be accompanied by fever), and cells that help the blood to clot,  
feeling weak and having no energy,  
tiredness,  
diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain.  
● 
● 
● 
Severe side effects, which may be common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people), include:  
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
perforation of the gut,  
bleeding, including bleeding in the lungs in patients with non-small cell lung cancer,  
blocking of the arteries by a blood clot,  
blocking of the veins by a blood clot,  
blocking of the blood vessels of the lungs by a blood clot,  
blocking of the veins of the legs by a blood clot, 
heart failure,  
problems with wound healing after surgery,  
redness, peeling, tenderness, pain, or blistering on the fingers or feet,  
decreased number of red cells in the blood,  
lack of energy,  
stomach and intestinal disorder,  
muscle and joint pain, muscular weakness,  
dry mouth in combination with thirst and/or reduced or darkened urine,  
inflammation of the moist lining of mouth and gut, lungs and air passages, reproductive, and 
urinary tracts,  
sores in the mouth and the tube from the mouth to the stomach, which may be painful and cause 
difficulty swallowing,  
pain, including headache, back pain and pain in the pelvis and anal regions,  
localised pus collection,  
infection, and in particular infection in the blood or bladder,  
reduced blood supply to the brain or stroke,  
sleepiness,  
nose bleed,  
increase in heart rate (pulse),  
blockage in the gut or bowel,  
abnormal urine test (protein in the urine),  
shortness of breath or low levels of oxygen in the blood,  
infections of the skin or deeper layers under the skin,  
fistula: abnormal tube-like connection between internal organs and skin or other tissues that are 
not normally connected, including connections between vagina and the gut in patients with 
cervical cancer, 
allergic reactions (the signs may include breathing difficulty, facial redness, rash, low blood 
pressure or high blood pressure, low oxygen in your blood, chest pain, or nausea/vomiting). 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
Severe side effect, which may be rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people), include:  
● 
sudden, severe allergic reaction with breathing difficulty, swelling, lightheadedness, fast 
heartbeat, sweating, and loss of consciousness (anaphylactic shock). 
Severe side effects of unknown frequency (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data), 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
include:  
● 
serious infections of the skin or deeper layers under the skin, especially if you had holes in the 
gut wall or problems with wound healing,  
a negative effect on a woman’s ability to have children (see the paragraphs below the list of side 
effects for further recommendations),  
a brain condition with symptoms including seizures (fits), headache, confusion, and changes in 
vision (Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome or PRES),  
symptoms that suggest changes in normal brain function (headaches, vision changes, confusion, 
or seizures), and high blood pressure,  
an enlargement and weakening of a blood vessel wall or a tear in a blood vessel wall 
(aneurysms and artery dissections),  
clogging of a very small blood vessel(s) in the kidney,  
abnormally high blood pressure in the blood vessels of the lungs which makes the right side of 
the heart work harder than normal,  
a hole in the cartilage wall separating the nostrils of the nose,  
a hole in the stomach or intestines,  
an open sore or hole in the lining of the stomach or small intestine (the signs may include 
abdominal pain, feeling bloated, black tarry stools or blood in your stools (faeces) or blood in 
your vomit),  
bleeding from the lower part of the large bowel,  
lesions in the gums with an exposed jaw bone that does not heal and may be associated with 
pain and inflammation of the surrounding tissue (see the paragraphs below the list of side 
effects for further recommendations), 
hole in the gall bladder (symptoms and signs may include abdominal pain, fever, and 
nausea/vomiting). 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
You should seek help as soon as possible if you suffer from any of the below mentioned side 
effects.  
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) side effects, which were not severe, include:  
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
constipation,  
loss of appetite,  
fever,  
problems with the eyes (including increased production of tears),  
changes in speech,  
change in the sense of taste,  
runny nose,  
dry skin, flaking and inflammation of the skin, change in skin colour,  
loss of body weight,  
nose bleeds.  
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) side effects, which were not severe, include:  
● 
voice changes and hoarseness.  
Patients older than 65 years have an increased risk of experiencing the following side effects:  
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
blood clot in the arteries which can lead to a stroke or a heart attack,  
reduction in the number of white cells in the blood, and cells that help the blood clot,  
diarrhoea,  
sickness,  
headache,  
fatigue,  
high blood pressure. 
VEGZELMA may also cause changes in laboratory tests carried out by your doctor. These include a 
decreased number of white cells in the blood, in particular neutrophils (one type of white blood cell 
which helps protect against infections) in the blood; presence of protein in the urine; decreased blood 
potassium, sodium or phosphorous (a mineral); increased blood sugar; increased blood alkaline 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
phosphatase (an enzyme); increased serum creatinine (a protein measured by a blood test to see how 
well your kidneys are working); decreased haemoglobin (found in red blood cells, which carry 
oxygen), which may be severe.  
Pain in the mouth, teeth and/or jaw, swelling or sores inside the mouth, numbness or a feeling of 
heaviness in the jaw, or loosening of a tooth. These could be signs and symptoms of bone damage in 
the jaw (osteonecrosis). Tell your doctor and dentist immediately if you experience any of them.  
Pre-menopausal women (women who have a menstrual cycle) may notice that their periods become 
irregular or are missed and may experience impaired fertility. If you are considering having children 
you should discuss this with your doctor before your treatment starts.  
VEGZELMA has been developed and made to treat cancer by injecting it into the bloodstream. It has 
not been developed or made for injection into the eye. It is therefore not authorised to be used in this 
way. When bevacizumab is injected directly into the eye (unapproved use), the following side effects 
may occur:  
● 
● 
● 
● 
● 
Infection or inflammation of the eye globe,  
Redness of the eye, small particles or spots in your vision (floaters), eye pain,  
Seeing flashes of light with floaters, progressing to a loss of some of your vision,  
Increased eye pressure,  
Bleeding in the eye. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store VEGZELMA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and on the vial label 
after the abbreviation EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C).  
Do not freeze.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
Infusion solutions should be used immediately after dilution. If not used immediately, in-use storage 
times and conditions are the responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours 
at 2°C to 8°C, unless the infusion solutions have been prepared in a sterile environment. When dilution 
has taken place in a sterile environment, VEGZELMA is stable for 60 days at 2°C to 8°C plus an 
additional 7 days at 2°C to 30°C.  
Do not use VEGZLMA if you notice any particulate matter or discolouration prior to administration.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What VEGZELMA contains  
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
● 
● 
The active substance is bevacizumab. Each mL of concentrate contains 25 mg of bevacizumab, 
corresponding to 1.4 to 16.5 mg/mL when diluted as recommended.  
Each 4 mL vial contains 100 mg of bevacizumab, corresponding to 1.4 mg/mL when diluted as 
recommended.  
Each 16 mL vial contains 400 mg of bevacizumab, corresponding to 16.5 mg/mL when diluted 
as recommended  
The other ingredients are trehalose dihydrate, sodium phosphate, polysorbate 20 and water for 
injections.  
What VEGZELMA looks like and contents of the pack 
VEGZELMA is a concentrate for solution for infusion. The concentrate is a clear, colourless to pale 
brown liquid in a glass vial with a rubber stopper. Each vial contains 100 mg bevacizumab in 4 mL of 
solution or 400 mg bevacizumab in 16 mL of solution. Each pack of VEGZELMA contains 1 vial or 
10 vials.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstraße 13 
89231 Neu Ulm 
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles 
06410, Sophia Antipolis 
France 
Kymos S.L. 
Ronda Can Fatjó 7B 
(Parque Tecnológico del Vallès) Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
08290 Barcelona, 
Spain 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstraße 49 
55218 Ingelheim am Rhein 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA  
Lietuva 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
България 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Teл.: +36 1 231 0493 
Česká republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Danmark 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA  
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Magyarország 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
Malta 
Mint Health Ltd. 
Tel: +356 2093 9800 
Deutschland 
Celltrion Healthcare Deutschland GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0)30 346494150 
infoDE@celltrionhc.com 
Nederland 
Celltrion Healthcare Netherlands B.V.  
Tel: + 31 20 888 7300 
Eesti 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Norge 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
España 
Kern Pharma, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 700 2525 
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΑΝΕΞ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 8009111 - 120 
Österreich 
Astro-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 97 99 860 
Polska 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
France 
CELLTRION HEALTHCARE FRANCE SAS 
Tél.: +33 (0)1 71 25 27 00 
Portugal 
PharmaKERN Portugal - Produtos 
Farmacêuticos, Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214 200 290 
Hrvatska 
Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6595 777 
România 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Ireland 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Slovenija 
OPH Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 1 519 29 22 
Ísland 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
Sími: +36 1 231 0493 
Italia 
Celltrion Healthcare Italy S.R.L.  
Tel: +39 0247927040 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22741741 
Latvija 
Slovenská republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Suomi/Finland 
Celltrion Healthcare Finland Oy. 
Puh/Tel: +358 29 170 7755 
Sverige 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
73 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tālr.: +36 1 231 0493 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}>. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
74 
 
 
 
 
