EMA/623814/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005534 
Vegzelma (bevacizumab) 
An overview of Vegzelma and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vegzelma and what is it used for? 
Vegzelma is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with the following types of cancer, in combination 
with other cancer medicines: 
• 
cancer of the colon (large intestine) or rectum that is metastatic (has spread to other parts of the 
body), in combination with chemotherapy medicines that include a ‘fluoropyrimidine’; 
•  metastatic breast cancer, in combination with paclitaxel or capecitabine;  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer in patients whose cancer cells are not mainly of the squamous 
type, where it is given with platinum-based chemotherapy; 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer in patients whose cancer cells have a certain change 
(‘activating mutations’) in the gene for a protein called EGFR, where it is given in combination with 
erlotinib; 
advanced or metastatic kidney cancer, in combination with interferon alfa-2a; 
epithelial cancer of the ovary, cancer of the fallopian tube (that connect the ovaries to the womb) 
or the peritoneum (the membrane lining the abdomen). Vegzelma is used in combination with 
certain chemotherapy medicines in newly diagnosed patients when the cancer is advanced, or in 
previously treated patients whose cancer has come back (recurrent); 
cancer of the cervix (the neck of the womb) that is persistent, recurrent or metastatic. Vegzelma is 
given in combination with paclitaxel and either the platinum-based medicine cisplatin or, if this 
cannot be used, another chemotherapy medicine, topotecan. 
Vegzelma is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Vegzelma is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Vegzelma is Avastin. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Vegzelma contains the active substance bevacizumab. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How is Vegzelma used? 
Vegzelma can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor 
who has experience in the use of cancer medicines. 
Vegzelma is available as a concentrate that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. 
The first infusion of Vegzelma should last 90 minutes, but subsequent infusions may be given more 
quickly if the first infusion is tolerated well. The dose is between 5 and 15 mg per kilogram body 
weight every two or three weeks, depending on the type of cancer being treated. The treatment is 
continued until the patient no longer benefits from it. The doctor may decide to interrupt or stop 
treatment if the patient develops certain side effects. For more information about using Vegzelma, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Vegzelma work? 
The active substance in Vegzelma, bevacizumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a protein that 
circulates in the blood and makes blood vessels grow. By attaching to VEGF, Vegzelma stops its 
effects. As a result, the cancer cells cannot develop their own blood supply and are starved of oxygen 
and nutrients, helping to slow down the growth of tumours. 
What benefits of Vegzelma have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Vegzelma with Avastin have shown that the active substance in 
Vegzelma is highly similar to that in Avastin in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies 
have also shown that giving Vegzelma produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to 
giving Avastin. 
In addition, a main study of 689 patients with non-small cell lung cancer that had come back or spread 
to other parts of the body showed that Vegzelma was as effective as Avastin in treating the cancer. 
Around 42% of patients given Vegzelma or Avastin responded to treatment.   
Because Vegzelma is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of bevacizumab 
carried out with Avastin do not all need to be repeated for Vegzelma. 
What are the risks associated with Vegzelma? 
The safety of Vegzelma has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the side 
effects of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Avastin. 
The most common side effects with bevacizumab are hypertension (high blood pressure), tiredness or 
asthenia (weakness), diarrhoea and abdominal (belly) pain. The most serious side effects are 
gastrointestinal perforation (hole in the gut wall), haemorrhage (bleeding) and arterial 
thromboembolism (blood clots in the arteries). For the full list of all side effects reported with 
Vegzelma, see the package leaflet. 
Vegzelma must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to bevacizumab or any of the 
other ingredients, to Chinese hamster ovary cell products or other recombinant antibodies. It must not 
be given to pregnant women.  
Vegzelma (bevacizumab)  
EMA/623814/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Vegzelma authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Vegzelma has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Avastin and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, a study in non-small cell lung cancer has shown 
that the safety and effectiveness of Vegzelma are equivalent to those of Avastin. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Vegzelma will behave in the same way as 
Avastin in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Avastin, the benefits of Vegzelma outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vegzelma? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vegzelma have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vegzelma are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Vegzelma are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vegzelma 
Vegzelma received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 August 2022. 
Further information on Vegzelma can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vegzelma 
This overview was last updated in 08-2022. 
Vegzelma (bevacizumab)  
EMA/623814/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
