Part VI:  Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for VegzelmaTM (bevacizumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Vegzelma. The RMP details important 
risks of Vegzelma, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Vegzelma’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Vegzelma’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Vegzelma should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Vegzelma  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European public assessment report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Vegzelma’s 
RMP. 
I.  The medicine and what it is used for 
Vegzelma  is  authorised  for  Metastatic  Colorectal  Cancer,  Metastatic  Breast  Cancer,  Advanced, 
metastatic  or  recurrent  Non-Small  Cell  Lung  Cancer,  Advanced  and/or  metastatic  Renal  Cell 
Cancer, Epithelial Ovarian, Fallopian Tube and Primary Peritoneal Cancer, and Cervical Cancer 
(see summary of product characteristic [SmPC] for the full indications). 
It contains bevacizumab as the active substance, and it is given by the intravenous route. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Vegzelma’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Vegzelma’s 
EPAR, including  in  its  plain-language summary,  available  on  the  European Medicines Agency 
website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage  https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/
vegzelma. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further
characterise the risks
Important  risks  of  Vegzelma,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about Vegzelma’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
• Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the
medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Vegzelma  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is 
sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Vegzelma.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information 
on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on 
the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed product information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C 
II.C.1
Post-authorisation development plan 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Vegzelma. 
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no other studies in post-authorisation development plan of Vegzelma. 
