EMA/791331/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005622 
Veklury (remdesivir) 
An overview of Veklury and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Veklury and what is it used for? 
Veklury is an antiviral medicine used to treat coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). It is used in adults 
and children, from at least 4 weeks of age and weighing at least 3 kg, with pneumonia requiring 
supplemental oxygen (low- or high-flow oxygen or other non-invasive ventilation at the start of 
treatment).  
The medicine can also be used in adults and children (weighing at least 40 kg) who do not require 
supplemental oxygen and who are at increased risk of developing severe COVID-19. 
Veklury contains the active substance remdesivir. 
How is Veklury used? 
Veklury is given via infusion (drip) into a vein. Treatment for adults and children weighing at least 40 
kg should start with a 200mg infusion on the first day, followed by 100mg once a day. In children at 
least 4 weeks of age and weighing at least 3 kg but less than 40 kg, treatment should start with an 
infusion of 5 mg per kilogram of bodyweight on the first day, followed by 2.5 mg per kilogram of 
bodyweight once a day. 
In adults and children weighing at least 40 kg  with pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen, the 
total duration of treatment should be at least 5 days and no more than 10 days. The total duration of 
treatment for pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen, in children at least 4 weeks of age and 
weighing at least 3 kg but less than 40 kg, should not exceed 10 days.  
In adults and children weighing at least 40kg who do not require supplemental oxygen, treatment 
should start as soon as possible after COVID-19 is diagnosed and within 7 days after symptoms 
appear. The total duration of treatment should be three days. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and its use is limited to healthcare facilities in 
which patients can be monitored closely. 
For more information about using Veklury, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How does Veklury work? 
The active substance in Veklury, remdesivir, is a viral RNA polymerase inhibitor. It interferes with the 
production of viral RNA (genetic material), preventing SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, 
from multiplying inside cells. This can help the body to overcome the virus infection and may help 
patients get better faster. 
What benefits of Veklury have been shown in studies? 
A main study (NIAID-ACTT-1) involving 1,063 hospitalised patients with COVID-19 (120 with mild to 
moderate disease and 943 with severe disease) showed that Veklury can speed up the recovery time in 
some patients, allowing them to spend less time in hospital or on treatment. 
The study showed that, in the overall study population, patients treated with Veklury recovered after 
about 11 days, compared with 15 days for patients given placebo (a dummy treatment). For patients 
with severe disease requiring supplemental oxygen, time to recovery was 12 days for patients given 
remdesivir, compared with 18 days for patients on placebo. However, no difference was seen in time to 
recovery in the subgroup of patients with severe disease who started remdesivir when they were 
already on mechanical ventilation or ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation).  
The study also showed that, in the overall study population, the mortality rate (the proportion of 
patients who died) 28 days after treatment started was 11.6% for patients given Veklury and 15.4% 
for patients on placebo. However, this effect was mainly driven by patients requiring supplemental 
oxygen in the form of low-flow oxygen at the start of treatment. No beneficial effect of Veklury on 
mortality was seen in the subgroup of patients with severe disease who started remdesivir when they 
were already on mechanical ventilation or ECMO. 
A separate study (GS-US-540-9012) evaluated the effect of Veklury in 584 non-hospitalised patients 
who were at high-risk for hospitalisation due to underlying health issues. Treatment with Veklury for 3 
days, when started within 7 days of the first appearance of symptoms, reduced the risk of 
hospitalisation by 87%. Over 28 days, 0.7% of patients treated with Veklury (2 out of 279) were 
hospitalised compared with 5.3% of patients (15 out of 283) who received placebo.  
An additional study (GS-US-540-5823), involving 53 children from 28 days up to less than 18 years of 
age who were hospitalised with COVID-19, showed that although the level of Veklury and its 
breakdown products in children were moderately increased compared to those seen in adults, 
treatment with Veklury was well tolerated and did not result in any new safety concerns in children. 
The study, which is currently ongoing, did not compare Veklury with other medicines or placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Veklury? 
The most common side effect with Veklury (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) in healthy 
volunteers is raised blood levels of liver enzymes (a sign of liver problems). The most common side 
effects in patients with COVID-19 is nausea (feeling sick), which may affect up to 1 in 10 people. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Veklury, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Veklury authorised in the EU? 
Veklury showed a clinically meaningful effect on time to recovery in adult and adolescent COVID-19 
patients with pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen, while being well tolerated with mild side 
effects. Veklury was also effective in preventing hospitalisation in adult and adolescent patients who 
did not need supplemental oxygen and who were at high-risk of developing severe COVID-19. Veklury 
Veklury (remdesivir)  
EMA/791331/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
was shown to be absorbed, modified and removed from the body in a similar way in children, as it is in 
adults; side effects observed in children were also shown to be comparable to those seen in adults. It 
was therefore considered that Veklury has the same effect in children as it does in adults. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Veklury’s benefits are greater than its risks and that 
it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
Veklury was originally given ‘conditional approval’ because there was more evidence to come about the 
medicine. As the company has supplied the additional information, which confirmed the medicine’s 
activity against different variants of SARS-CoV-2, the authorisation has been switched from conditional 
to full approval. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Veklury? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Veklury have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
A risk management plan for Veklury is also in place, which details important information about the 
medicine’s safety, how to collect further information and how to minimise any potential risks.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Veklury are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Veklury are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Veklury 
Veklury received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 3 July 2020. This 
was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 08 Aug 2022. 
Further information on Veklury can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/veklury  
This overview was last updated in 10-2022. 
Veklury (remdesivir)  
EMA/791331/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
