European Medicines Agency 
London, 18 August 2008 
EMEA/CHMP/441020/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
VELCADE  
International non-proprietary name/Common name:  
bortezomib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000539/II/0028  
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Velcade (bortezomib) is a proteasome inhibitor. It is specifically designed to inhibit the chymotrypsin-
like  activity  of  the  26S  proteasome  in  mammalian  cells.  The  26S  proteasome  is  a  large  protein 
complex  that  degrades  ubiquitinated  proteins.  The  ubiquitin-proteasome  pathway  plays  an  essential 
role  in  orchestrating  the  turnover  of  specific  proteins,  thereby  maintaining  homeostasis  within  cells. 
Inhibition  of  the  26S  proteasome  prevents  this  targeted  proteolysis  and  affects  multiple  signalling 
cascades within the cell, ultimately resulting in cancer cell death. 
On  26  April  2004,  Velcade  was  authorised  under  exceptional  circumstances  in  the  European  Union 
where it is currently indicated in mono-therapy for the treatment of progressive multiple myeloma in 
patients who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable 
for bone marrow transplantation. 
In  the  present  application,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  of  Velcade  applied  for  an 
extension of indication for the treatment of patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma with 
subsequent changes in sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8 and 5.1 of the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The Package Leaflet is proposed to be updated accordingly. 
The following indication in section 4.1 has been agreed: 
“Velcade in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
previously  untreated  multiple  myeloma  who  are  not  eligible  for  high-dose  chemotherapy  with  bone 
marrow transplant.” 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
Velcade  for  injection  is  currently  approved  in  85  countries  for  the  treatment  of  relapsed  multiple 
myeloma in patients who have progressed after receiving at least 1 previous line of treatment. It was 
granted a marketing authorisation in the European Union in 2004 initially as therapy in patients with 
multiple  myeloma  who  had  received  at  least  2  prior  lines  of  treatment.  Subsequently,  the  indication 
was  extended  to  treat  patients  with  multiple  myeloma  earlier  in  the  course  of  the  disease 
(EMEA/H/C/539/II/05, Commission Decision on 20 April 2005).  
Multiple  myeloma  (also  known  as  myeloma  or  plasma  cell  myeloma,  MM)  is  a  progressive 
hematologic  disease.  It  is  characterized  by  excessive  numbers  of  abnormal  plasma  cells  in  the  bone 
marrow and overproduction of intact monoclonal immunoglobulin (IgG, IgA, IgD, or IgE) or Bence-
Jones  protein  (free  monoclonal  κ  and  λ  light  chains).  The  estimated  incidence  of  MM  in  Europe  is 
23,000 per year. MM is still considered to be an incurable disease and the 5-year relative survival rate 
is around 33%. Median age at diagnosis is 65 to 70 years, with the incidence of myeloma increasing 
with age. Multiple myeloma usually manifests as 1 or more lytic bone lesions, monoclonal protein in 
the  blood  or  urine,  and  disease  in  the  bone  marrow.  Disease  progression  is  often  associated  with 
worsening  of  symptoms  and  organ  dysfunction  characteristic  of  myeloma,  such  as  anemia,  bone 
lesion-related symptoms, renal function impairment, and susceptibility to infections. Current treatment 
options, therefore, aim not only to improve survival but also to induce tumour response, inhibit tumour 
progression, and delay disease-related complications. 
The  current  recommendation  is  to  incorporate  high-dose  chemotherapy  with  stem  cell  transplant 
(HDT/SCT) into initial therapy programs for patients 65 years of age or younger. In patients older than 
65 years of age, the value of HDT/SCT is controversial and has not been formally established even in 
prospective  randomized  studies.  Given  that  the  median  age  at  diagnosis  of  multiple  myeloma  is 
between  65  and  70  years,  the  majority  of  newly  diagnosed  patients  is  treated  only  with  standard 
chemotherapy,  with  no  consideration  for  HDT/SCT  because  of  poor  physical  condition,  co-
morbidities, and increased toxicity. 
Standard chemotherapy regimens include melphalan-prednisone (MP), VAD (vincristine-doxorubicin-
thalidomide-dexamethasone,  and  alkylating-agent  combinations.  Combination 
dexamethasone), 
Page 2 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chemotherapy  with  MP  has  been  the  standard-of-care  in  front-line  non-transplant  multiple  myeloma 
therapy since the 1960s, and remains the most widely accepted treatment option for patients ineligible 
for HDT/SCT.  
The present application is supported by Study MMY-3002, designed to determine whether the addition 
of  Velcade  to  standard  MP  therapy  (Vc-MP)  would  improve  the  outcome  of  previously  untreated 
patients with multiple myeloma. 
2.1 
Clinical pharmacology 
As  a  sub-study  of  the  Phase  3  Study  MMY-3002,  the  pharmacokinetics  (PK)  of  Velcade  with  and 
without  co-administration  of  MP  was  examined  during  the  first  2  cycles  of  treatment  with  Velcade. 
Twenty-seven (27) subjects were enrolled into this study in 6 countries but only 20 of them completed 
the sub-study.  
The PK parameters of Velcade administered alone or in combination with melphalan and prednisone 
are presented in the tables below. 
Table 1 – Mean (SD) VELCADE Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Subjects Following i.v. Administration 
of VELCADE (1.3 mg/m2) With and Without Melphalan and Prednisone (Study MMY-3002-PK: Subjects 
Evaluable for Pharmacokinetics) 
Table 2 - Results of Geometric Mean Ratios and 90% Confidence Intervals of the PK Parameters of 
VELCADE Alone or in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone (Vc-MP) 
Overall, the pharmacokinetic profile of Velcade in this study was similar to that previously reported. 
All  pharmacokinetic  parameter  values  were  comparable  between  the  two  groups,  although  inter-
individual variability was high when Velcade was given alone or in combination with MP. The large 
apparent  volume  of  distribution  of  Velcade  suggested  extensive  peripheral  tissue  distribution,  which 
was similar for all study days and treatments. Due to the high degree of inter-subject variability, the 
90% confidence intervals of mean plasma peak concentration and exposure measures extended beyond 
the regulatory guideline range of 80% to 125%. However, a closer interpretation of individual profiles 
and graphical data analysis indicated that there was no apparent drug-drug interaction when MP was 
co-administered  with  Velcade.  This  interpretation  is  supported  by  the  clinical  data  in  Study  MMY-
3002,  indicating  a  similar  dose  intensity  of  melphalan  in  the  Velcade  +  MP  (Vc-MP)  and  MP 
treatment  groups,  and  a  dose  intensity  of  Velcade  in  the  Vc-MP  treatment  group  is  consistent  with 
prior single-agent Velcade studies. Therefore, a statement is included in section 4.5 to reflect that the 
17% increase in mean bortezomib AUC observed was not considered as clinically relevant. 
Page 3 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 
Clinical efficacy 
•  Methods 
Study design 
Study MMY-3002 was a randomized, open-label, multicenter study to compare the efficacy and safety 
of Velcade plus standard MP therapy versus MP therapy in subjects with previously untreated multiple 
myeloma who were not considered candidates for HDT/SCT. 
The  study  consisted  of  3  Phases:  a  pre-randomization  (screening)  phase,  an  open-label  treatment 
phase,  and  a  post-treatment  follow-up  phase.  In  the  post-treatment  follow-up  phase,  subjects  were 
followed until death or a maximum of 4.5 years after the last subject was randomized in the study. 
Study population 
The  study  population  included  men  and  women  with  previously  untreated  symptomatic  multiple 
myeloma  or  asymptomatic  multiple  myeloma  with  related  organ  or  tissue  damage  who  were  not 
candidates  for  HDT/SCT  due  to  age  (65  years  or  older)  or,  in  subjects  less  than  65,  presence  of 
important  comorbid  condition(s)  likely  to  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  tolerability  of  HDT/SCT. 
Presence  of  measurable  disease  was  required  for  both  secretory  multiple  myeloma  and  for 
oligosecretory or nonsecretory multiple myeloma.  
In  order  to  ensure  that  the  treatment  arms  were  well  balanced  and  unbiased,  randomization,  with  a 
1:1 allocation  ratio,  was  stratified  by  baseline  beta2-microglobulin  and  baseline  albumin  (both 
independent prognostic factors in untreated multiple myeloma), as well as by region (North America, 
Europe, other). 
Dose and Schedule  
A  6-week  treatment  cycle  for  Vc-MP  and  MP  was  selected  to  align  the  Velcade  treatment  regimen 
with the MP treatment regimen used in many studies in past, and to provide consistency and to ensure 
continued symmetry in efficacy and safety assessments across treatment.  
Treatment for newly diagnosed  multiple  myeloma is often continued for a fixed time period of 6 to 
12 months or until a response plateau is reached. A 12-month (54-week) duration of therapy (the same 
for  both  treatment  arms)  was  chosen  on  the  basis  of  historical  data  on  the  average  duration  of  MP 
therapy and the lack of benefit of maintenance therapy with MP, as well as the prescribing information 
for melphalan. A fixed duration of therapy was chosen for Study MMY-3002 to minimize the potential 
impact of heterogeneity in geographic treatment patterns on the time-dependent primary endpoint. 
In Study MMY-3002, melphalan was dosed at 9 mg/m2 (approximately equivalent to the 0.25 mg/kg 
dose originally used), together with the most frequently used steroid regimen of prednisone, 60 mg/m2
per day on Days 1 to 4 of each 6-week cycle.  
In the Vc-MP treatment group, Velcade was added to MP for the entire 54-week duration of treatment 
at a dose of 1.3 mg/m2. During the first 24 weeks, Velcade was given twice weekly for 2 consecutive 
weeks, followed by a week off. In order to match the 6-week MP cycle, 2 of these 3-week treatment 
periods were considered 1 cycle of Velcade. This dose and twice-weekly cycle is the same as currently 
approved for patients with previously treated multiple myeloma. After 24 weeks, a less dose-intense, 
i.e., weekly regimen, of Velcade was administered.  
Endpoints 
The primary endpoint was Time to Progression (TTP). Secondary endpoints included Progression-Free 
Survival  (PFS),  Overall  Survival  (OS),  Overall  Response  (OR)  rate,  Complete  Response  (CR)  rate, 
time to first response, duration of response, and patient-reported outcomes.  
Page 4 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy  assessments  included  the  following:  myeloma  protein  (M-protein)  measurements  in  serum 
and  24-hour  urine  including  immunofixation  testing,  bone  marrow  examination,  skeletal  survey, 
documentation of extramedullary plasmacytomas, and serum calcium level adjusted for albumin. 
To assess other potential indications of clinical benefit, additional analyses included the effects of Vc-
MP  and  MP  on:  time  to  subsequent  therapy;  myeloma-related  complications  (incidence  of 
hypercalcemia,  incidence  of  renal  function  impairment,  incidence  of  anemia,  incidence  of  skeletal 
events); Grade 3 or 4 infection rates; and immune reconstitution of normal immunoglobulins. 
•  Results 
Study population 
At the time of the clinical cut-off date of 15 June 2007 for the third interim analysis, 682 subjects from 
151 centers in 22 countries were enrolled into Study MMY-3002, with 344 subjects randomized to the 
Vc-MP  treatment  group  and  338  subjects  randomized  to  the  MP  treatment  group.  Of  the 
682 randomized subjects (intent-to-treat [ITT] population), 677 were treated (safety population), with 
668 of these subjects further included in the response-evaluable population. On 15 June 2007, 45% of 
Vc-MP subjects and 41%  of MP subjects had completed all 9 cycles of study treatment, while 14% 
and  10%, 
treatment.  Demographics,  baseline  disease 
characteristics, and extent of disease at baseline were well balanced between the 2 treatment groups. 
Treatment groups were distributed similarly by region, with the majority (79%) of subjects enrolled at 
sites in the Europe/Australia Region. The patient population was mainly (80%) Caucasian. 
respectively,  were  still  undergoing 
Table 3 provides a summary of selected baseline  and disease  characteristics for the Vc-MP  and MP 
treatment groups in Study MMY-3002. 
Table 3 - Summary of Baseline Subject and Disease Characteristics (Study MMY-3002) 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint: Time to Progression 
There  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  in  TTP,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  in  favour  of 
subjects treated with Vc-MP. The median TTP was 20.7 months (631 days) in the Vc-MP treatment 
group  compared  with  15.0  months  (456  days)  in  the  MP  treatment  group  (hazard  ratio=0.540; 
p=0.000002), demonstrating a 46% decrease in the risk of progression/relapse for subjects in the Vc-
MP group (Figure 1). 
Page 5 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 - Time to Disease Progression (Study MMY-3002: All Randomized Subjects Analysis Set) 
Several sensitivity analyses, including TTP as determined by the investigator and TTP (as determined 
by  algorithm)  without  censoring  for  subsequent  therapies,  were  performed  and  were  consistent  with 
the conclusions from the primary analysis. 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoint: Progression-Free Survival 
The difference in PFS in favour of Vc-MP-treated subjects was statistically significant and consistent 
with the results of the TTP analysis. Median PFS was 18.3 months (556 days) in the Vc-MP treatment 
group and 14 months (425 days) in the MP treatment group (hazard ratio=0.609; p=0.00001) (Figure 
2).  
Page 6 of 22 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 - Progression-Free Survival (Study MMY-3002: All Randomized Subjects Analysis Set) 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoint: Overall Survival 
A  significant  survival  benefit  favouring  the  Vc-MP  treatment  group  was  demonstrated  (hazard 
ratio=0.607;  p=0.00782).  At  the  time  of  the  clinical  cut-off,  representing  a  median  follow-up  of 
16.3 months, 121 subjects had died (45 subjects [13%] in the Vc-MP treatment group and 76 subjects 
[23%] in the MP treatment group) (Figure 3). While median OS was not reached in either treatment 
group,  the  1-year  survival  rate  in  the  Vc-MP  and  MP  treatment  groups  was  89.1%  and  81.8%, 
respectively. The 2-year survival rate in the Vc-MP and MP treatment groups was 82.6% and 69.5%, 
respectively. 
Sixty-eight subjects (20%) in the Vc-MP treatment group and 121 subjects (36%) in the MP treatment 
group received subsequent therapy by the time of the clinical cut-off for the third interim analysis. In 
the  Vc-MP  treatment  group,  8  of  the  68  subjects  (12%)  received  subsequent  therapy  with  Velcade, 
while  54  of  the  121  subjects  (45%)  in  the  MP  treatment  group  received  subsequent  therapy  with 
Velcade. 
Page 7 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 - Overall Survival (Study MMY-3002: All Randomized Subjects Analysis Set) 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoint: Best Response to Treatment 
The improvement in TTP observed in the study was supported by statistically significant differences in 
favour of subjects in the Vc-MP treatment group in OR and CR rates. The OR rate (CR+PR) was 71% 
in  the  Vc-MP  treatment  group  and  35%  in  the  MP  treatment  group  (odds  ratio=4.5;  p<10-10).  One 
hundred  and  two  subjects  (30%)  in  the  Vc-MP  treatment  group  and  12  subjects  (4%)  in  the  MP 
treatment  group  had  a  CR  (odds  ratio=11.2;p<10-10).  Partial  response  was  reported  in  136  subjects 
(40%) in the Vc-MP treatment group and 103 subjects (31%) in the MP treatment group. Five subjects 
in the Vc-MP treatment group had an immunofixation-positive CR (IF+ CR). 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoint: Time to First Response 
For those subjects who responded to treatment, median time to first response was 1.4 months (43 days) 
in the Vc-MP treatment group and 4.2 months (128 days) in the MP treatment group. The median time 
to  best  response  and  median  time  to  CR  was  2.3  months  (69  days)  and  4.2  months  (127  days), 
respectively, in the Vc-MP treatment group and 4.9 months (148 days) and 5.3 months (161 days) in 
the MP treatment group, respectively. 
For all subjects, based on Kaplan-Meier estimates,  time to first response (hazard ratio=3.874; p<10-
10), time to best response (hazard ratio=3.155; p<10-10), and time to CR (hazard ratio=9.152; p<10-
10) were significantly earlier in Vc-MP-treated subjects compared with MP-treated subjects. 
Although most responses occurred early, there were, however, some late de novo responses in the Vc-
MP  treatment  group  which,  according  to  the  applicant,  justified  the  use  of  54  weeks  schedule.  In 
particular,  9  PRs  (9/228  subjects  [4%])  occurred  after  the  initial  24  weeks  and  during  the  weekly 
treatment Cycles 5 to 9. Moreover, response for subjects receiving Vc-MP continued to improve with 
continuing therapy. Twenty-nine of 102 CRs (28%) in the Vc-MP treatment group obtained a CR as 
their  best  response  after  the  first  24  weeks  of  treatment  (converted  from  PR  on  the  twice-weekly 
treatment cycles [Cycles 1 to 4] to CR on the weekly treatment [Cycles 5 to 9]). This can be seen as a 
justification to continue the therapy for the protocol-defined treatment period (i.e., 54 weeks). Since 
CR  is  reported  to  be  associated  with  prolonged  TTP  and  survival,  these  data  suggest  that  continued 
therapy  results  in  clinical  benefit.  The  number  of  patients  gaining  benefit  from  the  longer  treatment 
are, however, not very high.  
Page 8 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoint: Duration of Response 
Tumour responses obtained on the Vc-MP regimen were durable. The median duration of response, by 
the  Kaplan-Meier  method,  was  19.9  months  (606  days)  in  the  Vc-MP  treatment  group  and 
13.1 months (400 days) in the MP treatment group. 
An analysis of the duration of response by best response category (CR or PR) also was performed. The 
median duration of response for subjects whose best response was a CR was 24 months (729 days) in 
the  Vc-MP  treatment  group  and  12.8  months  (389  days)  in  the  MP  treatment  group.  For  subjects 
whose  best  response  was  a  PR,  the  median  duration  of  response  was  15.2  months  (464  days)  and 
13.1 months (400 days), respectively. 
To  understand  the  effect  of  duration  of  Vc-MP  treatment  on  the  duration  of  CR,  an  analysis  was 
performed  of  the  duration  of  CR  by  the  number  of  additional  cycles  received  beyond  the  first 
documentation  of  CR.  The  median  duration  of  CR  was  16.9  months  (513  days)  for  subjects  who 
received  ≤2  additional  cycles  after  CR  and  20.3  months  (617  days)  for  subjects  with  CR  who 
completed  9  cycles  of  treatment.  This  analysis  indicates  that  continuation  of  treatment  results  in 
prolonged duration of CR. 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoint: M-Protein Response 
M-protein is accepted as a valid measure of tumour burden and consequently of tumour response and 
progression. Change in M-protein values is the most important component of response and progression 
assessments in multiple myeloma. To facilitate comparisons between data from Study MMY-3002 and 
historical data using best M-protein response as the basis for response assessment, an analysis of best 
M-protein  response  was  performed.  Thirty-seven  percent  of  subjects  in  the  Vc-MP  treatment  group 
and 7% of subjects in the MP treatment group had 100% reduction of M-protein in the serum or urine 
at  some  point  during  the  study.  Forty-five  percent  and  10%  of  subjects  in  the  Vc-MP  and  MP 
treatment groups, respectively, had a ≥90% reduction (consistent with VGPR in historical studies) and 
82% and 50% of subjects in the Vc-MP and MP treatment groups, respectively, had a ≥50% reduction 
in M-protein. 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoint: Time to Subsequent Myeloma Therapy 
Time  to  subsequent  myeloma  therapy  was  significantly  longer  for  subjects  in  the  Vc-MP  treatment 
group compared with the MP treatment group. Of the 682 randomized subjects, 73 subjects (21%) and 
127 subjects (38%) in the Vc-MP and MP treatment groups, respectively, received subsequent therapy 
as  of  the  clinical  cut-off  date  of  15  June  2007.  The  median  time  to  subsequent  myeloma  therapy, 
measured  from  randomization,  was  20.8  months  (632  days)  in  the  MP  treatment  group  and  had  not 
been reached in the Vc-MP group (hazard ratio=0.522; p=0.000009). Five of 8 subjects in the Vc-MP 
treatment group who were retreated with Velcade had an investigator-reported response assessment; of 
these 5 subjects; 1 obtained a CR and 2 obtained a PR. Thirty-six of 54 subjects in the MP treatment 
group who were subsequently treated with Velcade had an investigator-reported response assessment; 
of these 36 subjects, 5 obtained CR and 16 obtained PR.  
Subgroup analyses 
The  following  subgroup  analyses  were  performed  relative  to  the primary efficacy endpoint, TTP, as 
well as several secondary efficacy parameters (PFS, OS, OR): 
•  Baseline stratification factors: beta2-microglobulin, albumin, and region. 
•  Demographic data: gender, race, and age. 
•  Baseline disease characteristics: ISS staging and cytogenetic risk. 
Baseline demographics and disease characteristics were comparable across both treatment groups. A 
substantial  proportion  of  subjects  in  both  groups  entered  the  study  with  adverse  prognostic  features 
including  age  ≥75  years  (30%);  KPS  score  ≤70  (34%),  beta2-microglobulin  >5.5  mg/L  (33%); 
albumin <3.5 g/dL (60%); and ISS Stage III disease (34%). 
Page 9 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A treatment effect was demonstrated in the Vc-MP treatment group, compared with the MP treatment 
group  for  the  primary  and  all  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  across  all  subgroups  evaluated  (hazard 
ratios  <1  or  odds  ratio  >1).  The  OR  rates  and  CR  rates  on  Vc-MP  were  similar  across  subgroups, 
including subgroups with these indicators of poor prognosis. In particular, high CR rates and OR rates 
were  observed  within  the  Vc-MP  treatment  group  in  the  beta2-microglobulin  >5.5  mg/L  subgroup 
(49%  and  71%,  respectively),  Stage  III  subgroup  (37%  and  72%,  respectively),  and  high-risk 
cytogenetic  subgroup  (29%  and  68%,  respectively),  demonstrating  consistent  activity  of  Velcade  in 
subjects with previously untreated multiple myeloma with the worst prognostic factors.  
Additional analyses 
Based on Study MMY-3002, the proposed duration of treatment in patients with previously untreated 
multiple  myeloma is 54 weeks (nine 6-week cycles). The normal  duration of MP-treatment is either 
6 or 12 months. The currently approved duration of treatment with Velcade is however of 24 weeks. 
At the request from the CHMP, the MAH provided additional analyses of the results after both 24  and 
54 weeks, in order to justify a longer treatment duration.  
Twenty-nine  (29)  patients  out  of  102  (28%)  obtained  a  CR  or  a  first  response  only  after  24  weeks. 
Nine  additional  subjects  obtained  their  first  response  (partial  response  [PR])  also  after  the  first 
24 weeks. Obtaining a CR is indicative of a prolonged duration of response (median 24 months for CR 
as  compared  with  15.2  months  for  PR)  and  is  associated  with  a  prolonged  time  to  progression  and 
overall survival. 
To further substantiate the long-term benefit obtained by these late responders, the MAH provided an 
analysis of TTP and survival in the 29 Vc-MP subjects who obtained CR after 24 weeks of treatment 
as compared with subjects who obtained CR within 24 weeks. The subjects who obtained these later 
CRs had a numerically better time to progression (median not reached vs. 21.7 months) and better 2-
year  survival  (96.6%  vs.  90.6%)  compared  with  subjects  who  obtained  CRs  earlier.  Similarly,  the 
9 subjects who obtained a PR after 24 weeks of treatment had a numerically better time to progression 
(median 23.1 vs. 17.1 months) and better 2-year survival (100% vs. 83.6%) compared with subjects 
who obtained PRs earlier.  
The  MAH  also  provided  an  analysis  of  time-to-event  outcomes  of  subjects  in  the  Vc-MP  treatment 
group  whose  duration  of  Velcade  treatment  was  ≤4  cycles  (24  weeks)  as  compared  to  those  with  a 
duration of Velcade treatment >4 cycles. Median TTP was 18.3 months and 20.7 months, respectively; 
median  PFS  was  12.1  months  and  20.7  months,  respectively;  2-year  survival  was  73%  and  88.7%, 
respectively.  OS  was  not  reached  in  either  treatment  group.  However,  the  study  was  not  optimally 
randomized to perform a comparison of efficacy results at ≤4 cycles and >4 cycles. This may lead to a 
distortion  of  the  results  as  those  who  failed  already  in  the  beginning  impair  the  results  in  the  first 
group. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In  Study  MMY-3002,  statistically  significant  improvement  of  TTP  was  observed  with  Vc-MP 
treatment  compared  to  MP  only  treatment  in  patients  with  previously  untreated  multiple  myeloma. 
Consistent statistically significant results were observed on the secondary endpoints including PFS and 
OS. Treatment effect was maintained across all subgroups tested. Additionally, responding subjects in 
the Vc-MP group experienced substantially longer duration of response relative to the MP subjects. In 
addition,  the  time  to  subsequent  therapy  was  extended  and  there  was  also  an  improvement  in 
myeloma-related  complications.  These  results  are  supportive  of  the  clinical  superiority  of  Vc-MP 
treatment compared to MP treatment and can be reflected in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
in  Man 
The  CHMP  Guideline  on 
(CPMP/EWP/205/95/Rev. 3/Corr. 2) indicates that acceptable endpoints for confirmatory trial include 
OS and PFS/DFS. If PFS/DFS is the selected primary endpoint, OS should be reported as a secondary 
the  Evaluation  of  Anticancer  Medicinal  Products 
Page 10 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  vice  versa.  Alternative  primary  endpoints,  such  as  TTP,  TTF  or  EFS  might  uncommonly  be 
appropriate.  
At  the  request  from  the  CHMP,  the  MAH  provided  further  justifications  on  the  use  of  TTP  as  a 
primary endpoint in Study MMY-3002. The MAH considered that TTP and PFS are both considered 
measures  of  clinical  benefit  in  multiple  myeloma,  since  these  endpoints  mark  progression  and 
worsening  of  disease  that  is  inevitably  fatal.  TTP  directly  measures  tumour  growth  over  time  in  all 
patients.  However,  PFS  includes  deaths  due  to  toxicity  as  well  as  other  causes,  which  makes  the 
interpretation  of  treatment  effect  more  complex.  Particularly  in  this  elderly  patient  population  with 
many co-morbidities, it was expected that there would be a substantial number of deaths due to causes 
unrelated to cancer, which would confound the treatment effect on PFS. Since a change in therapy is 
often  triggered  by  progression,  TTP  is  not  confounded  by  subsequent  therapies  or  cross-over  unlike 
OS.  Although  TTP  was  chosen  as  the  primary  endpoint,  PFS  analysis  was  considered  to  be  a  very 
important  endpoint  and  was  included  as  a  secondary  endpoint  in  the  study  objectives.  PFS  analysis 
was  considered  to  be  a  critical  sensitivity  analysis  for  TTP.  A  compelling  outcome  based  on  TTP 
would  enable  a  much  needed  advance  for  newly  diagnosed  multiple  myeloma  patients  to  become 
available years and months before a conclusive result would be available based on survival data. The 
CHMP considered the justification provided by MAH on the choice of TTP as primary endpoint to be 
acceptable. 
As some patients did receive the response only after 24 weeks and as the adverse events during those 
last 30 weeks do not seem to increase, 54 weeks of treatment can be considered as giving an additional 
benefit to 24 weeks treatment. Therefore, the CHMP considered the proposed duration of 54 weeks of 
treatment to be acceptable for inclusion in section 4.2 Posology and Method of Administration of the 
SPC.  
2.3 
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
Of the 682 subjects randomized into Study MMY-3002, 677 subjects received at least 1 dose of study 
medication  and  are  included  in  the  safety  population  (340  treated  with  Vc-MP  combination  therapy 
and  337  treated  with  MP  therapy).  In  addition,  the  safety  data  from  the  Vc-MP  treatment  group  in 
Study MMY-3002 were compared with integrated safety data from 5 previous studies of single-agent 
Velcade,  used  at  the  approved  dose  of  1.3  mg/m2,  in  subjects  with  previously  treated  multiple 
myeloma.  The  5  studies  included  Studies  M34100-024  (26  subjects),  M34100-025  (202  subjects), 
M34101-039  (331  subjects),  M34101-040  (449  subjects),  and  JPN-MM-101  (25  subjects).  A 
combined  total  of  1,033  subjects  with  multiple  myeloma  received  single-agent  Velcade  in  these 
studies. 
•  Adverse events 
The incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events is summarized in Table 4 for the Vc-MP and MP 
treatment groups in Study MMY-3002, as well as for single-agent Velcade used in prior studies. As 
exposure was longer in Study MMY-3002 than in prior studies in relapsed subjects, the incidence of 
adverse events was adjusted for length of exposure. 
Page 11 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 – Overview Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Multiple Myeloma SCS) 
In  Study  MMY-3002,  nearly  all  subjects  in  both  treatment  groups  were  reported  to  have  at  least 
1 treatment-emergent adverse event. The incidence rate was higher in the Vc-MP treatment group than 
the MP treatment group for Grade 3 adverse events (53% vs. 44%) and serious adverse events (46% 
vs.  36%).  However,  the  incidences  were  similar  for  Grade  4  adverse  events  (28%  vs.  27%),  Grade 
5 adverse events (8% for both), and adverse events leading to treatment termination (15% vs. 14%). 
Comparison of the Vc-MP and single-agent Velcade groups revealed a similar incidence of Velcade-
related  events  (97%  for  both)  and  serious  adverse  events  (46%  vs.  52%)  (Table  4).  However,  when 
analyzed by length of exposure, the incidence rates (per patient-months) appeared to be lower for Vc-
MP  than  for single-agent  Velcade  for  these  2  types of  events.  Exposure-adjusted  incidence  rates  for 
the  Vc-MP  and  single-agent  Velcade  treatment  groups  were  1.1354  vs.  2.2450  events  per  patient-
month for Velcade related adverse events, and 0.0655 and 0.1307 events per patient-month for serious 
adverse events. 
The  incidence  of  Grade  ≥3  adverse  events  was  89%  for  Vc-MP  and  81%  for  single-agent  Velcade. 
The  exposure-adjusted  incidence  rate  of  Grade  ≥3  events  appeared  to  be  lower  for  Vc-MP  than  for 
single-agent Velcade (0.2268 vs. 0.2677 events per patient-month). The incidence of termination of all 
study treatment because of adverse events was 15% for the Vc-MP treatment group and 34% for the 
single-agent  Velcade  treatment  group,  corresponding  to  exposure-adjusted  incidence  rates  of 
0.0076 and 0.0650 events per patient-month, respectively. The incidence of adverse events leading to 
Velcade  discontinuation  was  similar  with  Vc-MP  treatment  (32%)  and  single-agent  Velcade  (34%). 
The  exposure-adjusted  incidence  rate  again  appeared  to  be  lower  for  Vc-MP  than  for  single-agent 
Velcade (0.0379 vs. 0.0650 events per patient-month, respectively). 
In  conclusion,  for  all  adverse  event  groups  summarized  in  Table  4,  the  exposure-adjusted  incidence 
rates  were  similar  (and  for  several  groups  even  lower)  for  the  Vc-MP  treatment  group  as  compared 
with the single-agent Velcade treatment group. 
The  incidences  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  were  also  examined  by  cycle  for  the  Vc-MP 
group  versus  the  MP  group  (Table  5).  In  the  Vc-MP  group,  the  incidence  of  treatment-emergent 
adverse events was higher with twice-weekly Velcade dosing during Cycles 1 to 4 (99%) compared 
Page 12 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with weekly Velcade dosing during Cycles 5 to 9 (90%). A similar trend was seen in the MP treatment 
group (95% during Cycles 1-4 and 88% during Cycles 5-9). Additionally, within the first 4 cycles, the 
incidence of adverse events was higher during Cycles 1 to 2 compared with Cycles 3 to 4 in both the 
Vc-MP treatment group (98% and 93%, respectively) and the MP treatment group (90% and 84%). 
The  Vc-MP  treatment  group  also  had  a  higher  incidence  of  Grade  ≥3  (85%)  and  serious  (40%) 
treatment-emergent adverse events during the first 4 cycles (twice-weekly regimen) compared with the 
MP treatment group (66% and 29%, respectively). However, a decreased incidence of Grade ≥3 (57%) 
and  serious  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (12%)  was  seen  over  time  in  the  Vc-MP  treatment 
group during Cycles 5 to 9 (weekly regimen) compared with Cycles 1 to 4 (twice-weekly regimen). 
This incidence of Grade ≥3 and serious adverse events in the Vc-MP treatment group (57% and 12%, 
respectively) was similar to that seen in the MP treatment group (61% and 15%, respectively) for the 
weekly Cycles 5 to 9. Also, the incidence of new all-grade adverse events was similar (88% and 90%, 
respectively)  in  the  Vc-MP  and  MP  treatment  groups  during  weekly  Cycles  5  to  9,  suggesting  that 
there is no cumulative toxicity with the addition of Velcade to MP. 
Table 5 – Overview of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events by Cycle: New Onsets (Study MMY-3002: 
Safety Analysis Set) 
Page 13 of 22 
 
 
 
 
Table  6  summarizes  the  most  common  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (≥20%  of  subjects  in  any 
group) for the Vc-MP, MP, and pooled single-agent Velcade treatment groups. 
Table 6 - Incidence of Most Common (At Least 20% in Any Group) Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events 
by MedDRA System Organ Class and Preferred Term (Multiple Myeloma SCS: Safety Analysis Set) 
• 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Deaths 
Table 7 summarizes the all-cause mortality rates within 30 days after the last dose of study medication 
for the Vc-MP, MP, and single-agent Velcade treatment groups. Five percent of subjects treated with 
Vc-MP  died  within  30  days  after  their  last  dose  (during  treatment),  compared  with  4%  of  subjects 
treated with MP and 10% of subjects treated with single-agent Velcade. As the length of exposure was 
greater  in  Study  MMY-3002  than  in  the  prior  studies,  the  incidence  of  death  within  30  days  of  last 
dose was adjusted for length of exposure; the incidence rates for both Vc-MP and MP appeared to be 
Page 14 of 22 
 
 
 
 
lower than for single-agent Velcade (0.006 vs. 0.005 vs. 0.019 events per patient-month, respectively). 
The  incidence  of  treatment-related  deaths  was  low  for  the  Vc-MP,  MP,  and  single-agent  Velcade 
treatment groups (1%, 2%, and 1%, respectively). The exposure-adjusted incidence rate of treatment-
related  deaths  was  similar  for  all  3  treatment  groups  (0.002  vs.  0.002  vs.  0.003  events  per  patient-
month, respectively).  
Table 7 - Summary of All-Cause Mortality Within 30 Days After Last Dose (Multiple Myeloma SCS) 
Serious Adverse Events 
The most frequent (≥2%) treatment-emergent serious adverse events are summarized in Table 8 for the 
Vc-MP  and  MP  treatment  groups  in  Study  MMY-3002,  as  well  as  for  single-agent  Velcade  use  in 
prior  studies.  Serious  adverse  events  were  reported  for  46%  of  subjects  who  received  Vc-MP, 
compared  with  36%  of  subjects  who  received  MP  and  52%  of  subjects  who  received  single-agent 
Velcade. The Vc-MP and single-agent Velcade treatment groups were similar with respect to serious 
adverse events of anemia, thrombocytopenia, herpes zoster, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. Incidences 
of neutropenia (1% in both), leukopenia (<1% in both), and neuralgia (1% in the Vc-MP group and 
<1% in the single-agent Velcade group) also were similar between the 2 treatment groups. 
The incidence of Velcade-related serious adverse events was similar with Vc-MP treatment (26%) and 
single-agent Velcade treatment (28%). 
Page 15 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 - Incidence of Most Common (At Least 2% in Any Group) Treatment-Emergent Serious Adverse 
Events by MedDRA System Organ Class and Preferred Term (Multiple Myeloma SCS: Safety Analysis 
Set) 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Subgroup analyses were performed with respect to adverse events to evaluate the safety of Vc-MP in 
different  special  populations.  These  analyses  showed  a  similar  safety  profile  across  age  and  gender. 
For  the  Vc-MP  regimen,  the  adverse  event  profile  for  subjects  with  moderate  renal  function 
impairment (30 to 60 mL/min creatinine clearance) was similar to the profile for subjects without renal 
function impairment (>60 mL/min creatinine clearance). 
Page 16 of 22 
 
 
 
 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety profile of Velcade in combination with MP in Study MMY-3002 was consistent with the 
known safety profiles of both Velcade and MP. No new safety concerns emerged for Vc-MP relative 
to what has been observed for each of its components. The safety profile of MP was as expected in this 
patient population: major side effects of MP were consistent with those described in previous studies. 
The  safety  profile  was  comparable  between  Vc-MP  and  single-agent  Velcade  used  in  prior  studies, 
despite the older patient population in the Vc-MP treatment group as compared with the single-agent 
VELCADE treatment group (median age, 71 and 60 years, respectively). 
The most frequently reported adverse events for the Vc-MP treatment group were as expected based 
on  the  known  toxicity  profile  of  each  of  the  3  individual  agents.  Although  peripheral  neuropathy 
events were more common with Vc-MP treatment than with single-agent Velcade treatment (47% vs. 
37%,  respectively),  the  incidence  of  Grade  ≥3  peripheral  neuropathy  events  was  similar  (13%  and 
11%)  and  serious  events  were  uncommon  for  both  groups  (1%  each).  Exposure-adjusted  incidence 
rates,  as  well  as  relationship  to  cumulative  dose  and  time  to  onset  of  peripheral  neuropathy  events, 
were  similar  between  treatment  groups.  The  reversibility  of  peripheral  neuropathy  has  been 
documented in the majority of cases  for subjects receiving Vc-MP (74% improvement or recovery). 
The addition of MP to VELCADE treatment did not appear to affect the cumulative dose at onset or 
the time to onset of peripheral neuropathy events. 
Overall, the number of serious adverse events was 10% higher in the VC-MP group than in the MP 
group in this study as well as the number of deaths and adverse events Grade>3. Particularly, in the 
beginning of the treatment (Cycles 1-4) there were more adverse events in the Vc-MP group than in 
the  control  group.  However,  during  the  next  cycles  (5-9)  the  tolerability  of  Vc-MP  treatment  was 
similar  to  that  of  MP  treatment  group.  Therefore,  no  new  safety  concerns  arise  with  the  longer 
duration of treatment of 54 weeks. The safety results of this study have been included in section 4.8 of 
the SPC. 
3. 
Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
The MAH submitted a Risk Management Plan. 
Safety Concern 
Heart failure 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  Acute development 
or exacerbation of congestive heart 
failure, and/or new onset of decreased 
left ventricular ejection fraction has 
been reported during bortezomib 
treatment. It a phase III randomized, 
comparative study the incidence of heart 
failure in the VELCADE treatment 
group was similar to that in the 
dexamethasone group. Fluid retention 
may be a predisposing factor for signs 
and symptoms of heart failure. Patients 
with risk factors for or existing heart 
disease should be closely monitored. 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Page 17 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Abnormal liver 
function tests 
(including hepatitis) 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
Acute 
hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Tumour lysis 
syndrome 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• SmPC: Language in Section 4.2 
regarding use in patients with impaired 
hepatic function 
• SmPC: Contraindications:  Severe 
hepatic impairment 
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  Hepatic impairment 
- Patients with hepatic impairment 
should be treated with extreme caution 
and a dose reduction should be 
considered (see sections 4.2 and 4.3).  
Hepatic Reactions - Rare cases of acute 
liver failure have been reported in 
patients receiving multiple concomitant 
medications and with serious underlying 
medical conditions. Other reported 
hepatic reactions include increases in 
liver enzymes, hyperbilirubinaemia, and 
hepatitis. Such changes may be 
reversible upon discontinuation of 
bortezomib (see Section 4.8).  
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Additional activities  
• A pharmacokinetic and safety study in 
patients with hepatic impairment is 
ongoing. (CTEP 6432) 
• SmPC: Contraindications: 
Hypersensitivity to bortezomib, boron, 
or to any of the excipients. 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  Because 
bortezomib is a cytotoxic agent and can 
rapidly kill malignant plasma cells, the 
complications of tumour lysis syndrome 
may occur. The patients at risk of 
tumour lysis syndrome are those with 
high tumour burden prior to treatment. 
These patients should be monitored 
closely and appropriate precautions 
taken. 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Motor peripheral 
neuropathy 
(including paralysis) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  Language 
regarding the risk of peripheral 
neuropathy when administered 
VELCADE. 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Page 18 of 22 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Autonomic 
neuropathy 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  Peripheral 
Neuropathy - In addition to peripheral 
neuropathy, there may be a contribution 
of autonomic neuropathy to some 
adverse reactions such as postural 
hypotension and severe constipation 
with ileus. Information on autonomic 
neuropathy and its contribution to these 
undesirable effects is limited. 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Acute diffuse 
infiltrative 
pulmonary disease 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  Language 
regarding the risk of ADIPD when 
administered VELCADE. 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Additional activities  
Periodic Ad hoc International Pulmonary 
Advisory Boards to review cases of 
potential ADIPD are ongoing. 
• An ongoing Japanese PMS survey 
(VEL-PMS- JPN-1) has specific focus 
on pulmonary complications associated 
with VELCADE treatment. 
Pericardial disease 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• SmPC: Contraindications:  Pericardial 
Pulmonary 
hypertension 
Ventricular rhythm 
abnormalities 
disease 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  ECG Investigations 
– There have been isolated cases of QT-
interval prolongation in clinical studies, 
causality has not been established. 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Page 19 of 22 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Hepatic failure 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• SmPC: Language in Section 4.2 
regarding use in patients with impaired 
hepatic function 
• SmPC: Contraindications:  Severe 
hepatic impairment 
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  Hepatic impairment 
- Patients with hepatic impairment 
should be treated with extreme caution 
and a dose reduction should be 
considered (see sections 4.2 and 4.3).  
Hepatic Reactions - Rare cases of acute 
liver failure have been reported in 
patients receiving multiple concomitant 
medications and with serious underlying 
medical conditions. Other reported 
hepatic reactions include increases in 
liver enzymes, hyperbilirubinaemia, and 
hepatitis. Such changes may be 
reversible upon discontinuation of 
bortezomib (see Section 4.8).  
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Additional activities  
• A pharmacokinetic and safety study in 
patients with hepatic impairment is 
ongoing. (CTEP 6432) 
Immunocomplex-
mediated reactions 
(including serum 
sickness, 
glomerulonephritis) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  Potentially 
immunocomplex-mediated reactions - 
Potentially immunocomplex-mediated 
reactions, such as serum-sickness-type 
reaction, polyarthritis with rash and 
proliferative glomerulonephritis have 
been reported uncommonly. Bortezomib 
should be discontinued if serious 
reactions occur. 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Amyloidosis 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  The impact of 
proteasome inhibition by bortezomib on 
disorders associated with protein 
accumulation such as amyloidosis is 
unknown. Caution is advised in these 
patients. 
Additional activities  
• Ongoing safety study evaluation 
(26866138-CAN-2007) 
Guillain-Barré 
Syndrome 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
Page 20 of 22 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Reversible posterior 
leukoencephalopathy 
syndrome 
Central nervous 
system disorders 
other than RPLS 
(encephalopathy, 
dementia, 
Parkinson’s disease) 
Use in patients with 
hepatic impairment 
Use in patients with 
renal impairment 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• SmPC: Language in Section 4.2 
regarding use in patients with impaired 
hepatic function 
• SmPC: Contraindications:  Severe 
hepatic impairment 
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  Hepatic impairment 
- Patients with hepatic impairment 
should be treated with extreme caution 
and a dose reduction should be 
considered (see sections 4.2 and 4.3).  
Additional activities  
• A pharmacokinetic and safety study in 
patients with hepatic impairment is 
ongoing. (CTEP 6432) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• SmPC: Special warnings and 
precautions for use:  The incidence of 
serious undesirable effects has been 
shown to increase in patients with mild 
to moderate renal impairment compared 
to patients with normal renal function 
(see Section 4.8). Renal complications 
are frequent in patients with multiple 
myeloma. Such patients should be 
monitored closely and dose reduction 
considered. 
• SmPC:  Labelled in Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
Data from the CTEP NCI-5874 study 
were submitted as part of variation  
EMEA/H/C/539/II/29, a variation 
supporting an update to posology for 
patients with renal impairment. This was 
submitted on 11 April 2008 and the 
review of this is ongoing. 
Additional activities 
• Ongoing safety study (CTEP 5874) 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
Page 21 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
According  to  Article  3  of  the  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No  847/2000,  for  the  purposes  of  the 
implementation  of  Article  8,  “Similar  active  substance”  means  an  identical  active  substance,  or  an 
active substance with the same principal molecular structural features (active moiety) and which acts 
via  the  same  mechanism.  Thus  the  similarity  assessment  takes  into  account  molecular  structural 
features, mechanism of action and therapeutic indication.  
The  Applicant  has  provided  a  report  discussing  the  issue  of  similarity  with  the  orphan  medicinal 
products  Revlimid  (lenalidomide)  and  Thalidomide  Pharmion  (thalidomide)  authorised  for  the 
treatment of multiple myeloma.  
Having  considered  the  arguments  presented  by  the  MAH  of  Velcade,  the  CHMP  concluded  that 
bortezomib  does  not  share  the  same  principal  molecular  structural  features  as  lenalidomide  and 
thalidomide and the differences in molecular structure are not only minor. The mechanism of action of 
bortezomib is also different than those of thalidomide and lenalidomide.  
Therefore, the CHMP is of the opinion that Velcade is not similar to any authorised orphan medicinal 
products within the meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200. 
5. 
Benefit-Risk Assessment 
Velcade is currently indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of progressive multiple myeloma in 
patients who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable 
for  bone  marrow  transplantation.  The  applicant  has  now  performed  one  clinical  study  to  show  the 
efficacy  of  Velcade  in  combination  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  previously  untreated  multiple 
myeloma, i.e. in a first-line indication. 
Study MMY-3002 was designed to determine whether the addition of Velcade to standard MP therapy 
would improve the outcome of previously untreated patients with multiple myeloma. The efficacy of 
Velcade  and  of  MP  was  well  established  and  both  therapies  were  widely  used  to  treat  multiple 
myeloma.  The  MAH  has  also  discussed  thoroughly  the  benefits  and  risks  of  all  the  standard 
chemotherapies and the choice of MP as a comparator is well justified. The choice of endpoints was 
considered adequately justified. 
The results of all the endpoints consistently showed that Vc-MP was superior to the MP treatment. Vc-
MP-treated subjects showed significant improvements over MP-treated subjects in TTP, PFS, OS, OR 
rate,  CR  rate,  time  to  response,  and  time  to  subsequent  myeloma  therapy.  Treatment  effect  was 
maintained  across  all  subgroups  tested.  Additionally,  responding  subjects  in  the  Vc-MP  group 
experienced substantially longer duration of response relative to the MP treated subjects. In addition, 
the  time  to  subsequent  therapy  was  extended,  allowing  patients  to  experience  more  time  without 
multiple  myeloma  treatment.  There  was  also  an  improvement  in  myeloma-related  complications. 
These results are supportive of the clinical superiority of Vc-MP treatment compared to MP treatment. 
The safety profile of Velcade in combination with MP in Study MMY-3002 was consistent with the 
known safety profiles of both Velcade and MP. No new safety concerns emerged for Vc-MP relative 
to what has been observed with the three individual components.  
Overall, the benefit-risk of Velcade in combination with melphalan and prednisone for the treatment 
of  patients  with  previously  untreated  multiple  myeloma  who  are  not  eligible  for  high-dose 
chemotherapy with bone marrow transplant is considered positive. Section 4.1 of the SPC is updated 
to include this new indication. 
Page 22 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
