19 January 2012 
EMA/34910/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000539 
Questions and answers 
Recommendations to prevent administration errors with 
Velcade (bortezomib) 
The European Medicines Agency is aware of three fatal cases of administration error that occurred with 
Velcade in the European Union, where the medicine was accidentally given intrathecally (into the space 
that surrounds the spinal cord) instead of intravenously (into a vein). The Agency’s Committee for 
Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) is reminding healthcare professionals that Velcade should 
only be given by injection into a vein and is recommending precautionary measures to prevent further 
administration errors from occurring. 
What is Velcade? 
Velcade is an anticancer medicine that contains the active substance bortezomib. It is available as a 
powder that is made up into a solution for injection into a vein. 
Velcade is used to treat patients with multiple myeloma, a cancer of the plasma cells in the bone 
marrow.  
The active substance in Velcade, bortezomib, is a proteasome inhibitor. It blocks the proteasome, 
which is a system within the cells that breaks down proteins when they are no longer needed. When 
the proteins in the cancer cells, such as the proteins that control the growth of the cells, are not 
broken down, the cells are affected and they eventually die. 
Velcade has been authorised in the European Union since 26 April 2004 and is marketed in all Member 
States as well as Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
What is the problem with the use of Velcade?  
Velcade is currently only authorised to be given by injection into a vein. The Agency was informed that 
since its authorisation in 2004, three patients had died because Velcade was accidentally injected 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7129   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intrathecally (into the space that surrounds the spinal cord) instead of intravenously. All three cases 
involved patients who were also receiving intrathecal chemotherapy at the same time as Velcade.  
What action is being taken? 
To prevent further administration errors from occurring, the CHMP has agreed for a letter to be sent 
out to healthcare professionals reminding them that Velcade should only be given intravenously. In 
addition, healthcare professionals are advised to consider specific precautionary measures. 
As for all medicines, the Agency will continue to monitor the safety of Velcade closely. 
What are the recommendations for healthcare professionals? 
Healthcare professionals are reminded that Velcade should only be given intravenously and are advised 
to consider the following precautionary measures: 
  When possible, different connectors should be used for medicines to be administered via 
intrathecal or intravenous route. 
  When possible, intrathecal chemotherapy should be administered at a different time than any other 
parenteral chemotherapy (chemotherapy given by injection or drip into a vein). 
  Syringes should be clearly labelled with the name of the medicine and route of administration to be 
used. 
 
 
Procedures should be in place for double checking the labelling of syringes before administration. 
Intravenous and intrathecal injections should be handled only by suitably trained healthcare 
professionals. 
  Healthcare professionals involved in administration or management of cancer chemotherapy should 
be trained and informed of the dangers of intrathecal administration of Velcade and of the 
recommended measures to prevent this from occurring. 
The current European public assessment report for Velcade can be found on the Agency’s website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
Recommendations to prevent administration errors with Velcade (bortezomib)  
EMA/34910/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
