SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Velcade. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 May 2004. For information on changes after this date please 
refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Multiple myeloma 
Multiple myeloma is a B-cell malignancy of the plasma cell and represents the second most common 
hematological  malignancy,  with  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  being  the  most  common.  The  incidence 
and  prevalence  of  multiple  myeloma  are  similar  in  the  US  and  Europe.  In  2000,  there  were 
approximately  19,000  cases  diagnosed  in  the  European  Economic  Area  (Globocan,  2000),  with  a 5-
year prevalence of approximately 47,000 cases. 
The  course  of  multiple  myeloma  is  characterized  by  an  asymptomatic  or  subclinical  phase  before 
diagnosis (possibly for several years), a chronic phase lasting several years, and an aggressive terminal 
phase. Multiple myeloma leads to progressive morbidity and eventual mortality by lowering resistance 
to  infection  and  causing  significant  skeletal  destruction  (with  bone  pain,  pathological  fractures,  and 
hypercalcemia),  anemia,  renal  failure,  and,  less  commonly,  neurological  complications  and 
hyperviscosity. From the time of diagnosis, the survival without treatment is between 6 to 12 months 
and extends to 3 years with chemotherapy. Approximately 25% of patients survive 5 years or longer, 
with fewer than 5% surviving longer than 10 years. 
Approved  anticancer  agents  for  the  treatment  of  myeloma  in  the  US  include  melphalan  (1992), 
carmustine (BCNU, 1977) and cyclophosphamide (1959) and in addition, in Europe, epirubicin is also 
approved for treatment of this disease. 
At the time of diagnosis, multiple myeloma is a heterogeneous disease, with a course that varies on the 
basis of both disease- and host-related factors (e.g., age, renal function, stage, alpha2- microglobulin, 
chromosomal abnormalities). Most patients with myeloma receive multiple treatments over the course 
of their disease, and the precise sequence of therapy and regimens used can be quite variable. 
Spontaneous remissions do not occur in multiple myeloma and no placebo effect on response has been 
noted.  Standard  therapy  for  myeloma  currently  consists  of  4  classes  of  agents:  corticosteroids, 
alkylating  agents,  anthracyclines,  and  more  recently  investigational  thalidomide.  A  fifth  treatment 
class  available  to  patients  under  the  age  of  65  years  is  high-dose  chemotherapy  and  bone  marrow 
transplantation.  
Patients  have  a  variable  response  to  conventional  treatments  after  their  initial  therapy,  but  the 
probability  of  response  and  the  duration  of  response  decrease  with  each  successive  treatment. 
Eventually, all patients will become refractory to therapy. This transition to the refractory state may 
occur after 1 treatment or after many. Regardless if it occurs in the first year of treatment or after many 
years,  the  occurrence  of  progression  on  therapy  (refractory)  conveys  biological  homogeneity 
characterized  by  a  short  terminal  phase.  These  patients  are  typically  offered  either  palliative  care  or 
experimental agents. Their prognosis is poor and they represent a group of patients with few treatment 
options and short survival (6 to 9 months).  
Bortezomib 
Bortezomib is a novel cytotoxic chemical entity that potently and specifically inhibits the proteolytic 
activity  of  the  proteasome  and  thus  the  degradation  of  poly-ubiquitinated  proteins  destined  for 
catalysis  by  the  proteasome.  Bortezomib  is  a  modified  dipeptidyl  boronic  acid  derived  from  leucine 
and  phenylalanine.  The  chemical  name  for  bortezomib,  the  monomeric  boronic  acid,  is  [(1R)-3-
methyl-1-[[(2S)-1-oxo-3-phenyl-2-[(pyrazinylcarbonyl)amino] 
acid. 
Bortezomib is the first anti-neoplastic proteasome inhibitor. 
propyl]amino]butyl]boronic 
The following mechanisms of action are thought to be relevant to the effect of bortezomib in multiple 
1/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
myeloma: 
• 
• 
Induction of apoptosis of multiple myeloma cells. 
Inhibition of activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) in multiple myeloma cells and in tumour 
microenvironment. 
Reduction of adherence of myeloma cells to bone marrow stromal cells. 
Blocks production and intracellular signaling of interleukin-6 (IL-6). 
Blocks production of angiogenic factors. 
Overcomes defects in apoptotic regulators, such as B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) overexpression 
and alterations in tumour suppressor protein p53. 
Unaffected by drug efflux pumps. 
Activity is cell-cycle independent. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Bortezomib (PS-341) has shown cytotoxic activity against a variety of multiple myeloma cell lines and 
in  freshly  isolated  cells  from  patients.  Bortezomib  is  a  selective  and  reversible  inhibitor  of  the  26S 
proteasome holoenzyme. It affects the degradation of poly-ubiquitinated proteins destined for catalysis 
by the proteasome. Over 80% of all cellular proteins are processed by the 26S proteasome complex. 
There  are  multiple  functions  of  the  proteasome  in  the  control  of  protein  degradation,  particularly  of 
regulatory  proteins  controlling  cell-cycle  and  apoptosis,  such  as  cyclins,  p53,  p27,  inhibitor  protein 
kappa  B  (I(cid:31)B)  and  nuclear  factor  kappa  B  (NF(cid:31)B).  The  proteasome  26S  complex  is  a  large, 
multiprotein  particle  present  in  both  the  cytoplasm  and  the  nucleus  of  all  eukaryotic  cells.  It  is 
composed of two functional components: a 20S core catalytic complex and the 19S regulatory subunit 
(for reviews  see Adams, 2002; Adams, 2003; Ben-Neriah, 2002). Proteins aimed to be degraded are 
marked  with  ubiquitin  chains,  which  bind  to  a  receptor  on  the  19S  complex.  Ubiquitin  is  a  small 
protein of 76 amino acids and it serves as a tag that marks proteins for degradation by the proteasome. 
The tagging of a substrate is exquisitely regulated by a multi-enzyme system. Once recognized by the 
regulatory complex, the ubiquitin chain is removed and the protein denaturated for degradation. The 
protease  activity  resides  in  a  channel  at  the  center of  the 20S complex. Inside  the  catalytic chamber 
proteins  are  surrounded  by  six  protease-active  sites.  Within  the  20S  core  are  three  proteolytic 
activities: a) trypsin-like, b) post-glutamyl hydrolyzing activity, and c) chymotrypsin-like. Bortezomib 
inhibits  specifically  the  chymotrypsin-like  activity,  but  this  inhibition  is  sufficient  to  block  all 
proteasomal catalytic activity. The proteasome protease functions similarly to serine proteases, but is 
unique, since it relies on a threonine residue in the active site. Proteins processed by proteasome are 
reduced to small polypeptides 3 to 22 residues in length. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Velcade is a sterile, lyophilized formulation in a single-use 10ml glass vial with bromobutyl stopper, 
containing 3.5mg of bortezomib with mannitol as bulking agent, in an atmosphere of nitrogen. 
When  reconstituted  with  3.5ml  0.9  %  Sodium  Chloride  for  Injection,  each  ml  contains  1mg 
bortezomib and 10mg mannitol. 
Drug Substance  
• 
Manufacture 
Bortezomib  is  a  trimeric  anhydride  of  a  dipeptide  of  a  boronic  amino  acid  prepared  by  synthesis. 
During lyophilisation performed for preparing the drug product, the active ingredient forms a diester 
with mannitol used as excipient. From this ester, the active boronic acid is obtained by reconstitution 
of the drug product in saline solution for injection. In water, an equilibrium between the boronic ester 
and acid is present. The terms bortezomib and drug substance are used loosely in this report to indicate 
any of the above species, depending on the relevant context.  
Four processes for the manufacture of bortezomib have been used during clinical development. These 
processes have been named as Processes A, B, C, and D. The drug substance synthesis uses standard 
peptide chemistry, involving a sequence of coupling, deprotection, coupling, and deprotection steps. 
Process D, the commercial manufacturing process, includes  4 steps and a final recrystallisation. 
2/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is a chiral molecule arising from the starting materials ( e.g. a chirally-defined boronate and the L- 
amino acids leucine and phenylalanine), and the structure has been well characterised. 
In particular, 1H and 13 C NMR spectroscopy studies have been performed, including NOESY (Nuclear 
Overhauser Effect Spectroscopy) experiments. 
• 
Specification 
The specification includes validated tests and limits for appearance (visual), ID (IR, HPLC), Assay (% 
anhydrous  basis),  impurities  (HPLC),  chiral  purity  (HPLC),  resdual  solvents  (GC),  moisture  (Karl 
Fischer), specific rotation, heavy metals, bacterial endotoxins and bioburden (PhEur where relevant).    
Batch  analysis  results  indicate  that  the  final  process  D  is  under  control  and  results  in  consistent 
quality, and final specifications are based solely on data from process D. 
Impurities 
A number of impurities, including chiral impurities, arising from the synthesis of bortezomib can be 
present in the active ingredient and limits have been included in the specification. Stereoisomers 
include an enantiomer and two diastereomers. They are derived from the coupling of the stereoisomers 
of the starting materials.  
Furthermore,  several  degradation  products  have  been  reported  as  possible  contaminants  in  the 
specification. Oxidation is the primary degradative pathway observed for bortezomib drug substance, 
and a total of fourteen distinct impurities have been identified.  
Qualification  of  impurities  is  considered  to  be  performed  correctly  using  batches  prepared  for 
toxicological  studies.  These  batches  contained  the  same  levels  of  impurities  as  those  contained  in 
subsequent lots and in commercial batches.  
A complete batch analysis has been included for batches prepared with process C and D and these data 
indicate clear improvement in the quality of the batches obtained from process D in comparison to the 
one  from  process  C.During  development  the  initial  specifications  for  assay  and  structurally  related 
impurities have been revised and lower limits introduced in line with the most recent batch analyses. 
The applicant also commits to re-evaluate specifications once additional data from commercial lots are 
available. 
• 
Stability 
Stress testing and accelerated stability studies have shown the drug substance to be sensitive to all the 
usual  factors  tested;  it  appears  to  be  intrinsically  unstable.  Accordingly,  storage  under  refrigeration 
and  protection  from  light  is  needed.  Data  are  presented  to  support  the  retest  period  of  nine  months 
required  with  a  labeled  storage  condition  of  -20°C  ±  5°C,  protected  from  light.  These  results  are 
concluded valid for stability evaluation, and allow concluding the proposed retest period acceptable. 
Drug Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
A  lyophilized  dosage  form  was  developed  to  overcome  the  stability  problems  encountered  with  a 
liquid formulation used in the early clinical studies and to allow rapid reconstitution in 0.9% saline to 
be  achieved.  Mannitol,  1%  (w/v),  was  selected  due  to  its  reconstitution  properties  and  enhanced 
stability when freeze-dried with bortezomib. 
Mannitol is the only excipient cited in the composition. Water for Injection and tertiary-Butyl Alcohol 
are co-solvents used in the compounding process, which are removed during lyophilization. There are 
no overages in the commercial formulation of bortezomib drug product. 
The  lyophilized  product  is  the  1:1  mannitol  boronic  ester  and  after  reconstitution  consists  of  an 
equilibrium between the mannitol ester and boronic acid. NMR and mass spectrometry have effected 
the structural characterization of the lyophilized product. 
3/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A complete characterization of the boronic ester:boronic acid equilibrium in the reconstituted product 
has  been  performed  and  it  has  been  concluded  that  the  equilibrium  is  established  in  less  than  ten 
minutes after dissolution, and that the equilibrium remains unchanged over a 12-hour period.  
The drug product manufacturing process has been developed passing from process I ( preparation of a 
liquid dosage form) to a classical lyophilization process ( II to V). Process V is the presently proposed 
commercial manufacturing process. 
The sterilization method using filtration through a microbically retentive filter and aseptic processing 
is justified by the lyophilized dosage form which cannot be terminally sterilized by moist heat and the 
physico-chemical  properties  of  the  drug  product  that  melts  at  the  temperatures  required  for  dry  heat 
sterilization  and  is  photosensitive.  Furthermore,  Gamma  irradiation  has  been  shown  to  significantly 
degrade the drug product, as expected. 
The suitability of the container closure system is demonstrated by the stability studies. The secondary 
packaging,  which  includes  a  paperboard  carton  provides  protection  from  light  exposure,  as 
demonstrated  in  photostability  studies.  The  integrity  of  the  container  closure  system  has  been 
demonstrated. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacture of the formulation is a standard procedure entailing compounding of the solution of 
mannitol and drug substance in Water for Injections. The final solution is sampled and tested for 
appearance, UV assay, density, and bioburden. The compounded solution is then filtered aseptically. 
Once filtration is initiated, the filtrate is sampled and tested for appearance, UV assay, and density. 
Appropriate filter testing is performed. 
Critical manufacturing parameters have been identified.and are controlled in line with the relevant 
Guideline. 
The overall manufacturing process is considered a non-standard process (aseptic filtration connected 
to lyophilisation), and has been validated in line with relevant EU guidelines. 
• 
Product Specification 
The drug product is tested for appearance (visual), ID (IR, HPLC), assay (% label claim), impurities 
(HPLC), moisture (Karl Fischer), Residual t-Butanol (GC), content uniformity (HPLC), sterility, 
Bacterial Endotoxins,. Additional for the reconstituted vial: reconstitution time (visual), colour/clarity 
of solution (visual, EP), particulate matter, pH . Methods are adequately validated, and PhEur methods 
applied where relevant. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Data are available for more than 12 months data at long term storage condition for three primary lots 
as well as 9 months for further two primary lots. In addition, 6-month data at accelerated conditions 
(40°C/75% RH) are available for all batches. Studies were carried out under ICH conditions and the 
results are considered adequate to support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in 
the SPC. 
The compatibility of Velcade with the recommended reconstitution diluent, 0.9%w/v sodium chloride 
solution for injection, has been demonstrated in reconstitution stability studies, and compatibility with 
common dosage administration devices (e.g. syringes) has also been demonstrated 
• 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Bortezomib is a trimeric anhydride of a dipeptide of a boronic amino acid prepared by synthesis using 
standard peptide chemistry. The different molecular forms of the active substance have been well 
characterised, and the manufacture and control have been shown to deliver a substance of satisfactory 
and reproducible quality. Because of an inherent instability and photosensitivity, it must be stored 
under refrigeration. 
4/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  thorough  discussion  has  taken  place  on  identification  and  quantification  of  impurities  as  well  as 
their origin and reflection in the specifications.  
The applicant has committed to further investigate analysis of impurities when more experience has 
been gained with commercial lots. 
Since the overall manufacturing process of the finished product is considered a non-standard process 
(aseptic filtration connected to lyophilisation), therefore, full process validation data have been 
requested from three consecutive batches at production scale. 
The manufacturing process for the product has been validated and batch analytical results indicate a 
product of reliable uniformity at the point of manufacture. Stability studies have been planned taking 
into account the known instability of the active substance, but the formulated product has been shown 
to be more stable, both in the dry state and after reconstitution. 
At  the  time  of  the  CPMP  Opinion,  a  number  of  minor  quality  issues  were  not  resolved,  and  the 
applicant gave a commitment to resolve these afterwards by means of Follow Up Measures. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics 
Available  information  on  the  pharmacodynamics  of  bortezomib  was  derived from studies  conducted 
by the applicant, and supportive data from the literature.  
The ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP) plays an essential role in the maintenance of homeostasis in 
cells  and  organisms.  The  26S  proteasome  plays  an  essential  role  in  the  UPP  by  acting  as  the  final 
proteolytic  effector  of  cellular  proteins  targeted  by  polyubiquitination  for  destruction.  The  26S 
proteasome  contains  a  20S  catalytic  core,  composed  of  four  stacked  seven-membered  rings  (De 
Martino et al.1999). Bortezomib is a selective and reversible inhibitor of the proteasome 20S activity 
(Adams  et  al  1998).  The  boronic  acid  moiety  of  bortezomib  is  thought  to  form  a  stable  tetrahedral 
complex with the active site N-terminal threonine residue of the 20S β 5 subunit. The applicant has 
investigated the reversibility of this binding. The Koff (rate constant for dissociation of inhibitor from 
enzyme-inhibitor complex) was approximately 6 x 104/sec with a t½ of 20 minutes. Bortezomib does 
not apparently interact with usual surface and steroid hormone receptors. 
The proteasome exists in mammalian cells in a number of isoforms. Studies presented by the applicant 
showed that isoform composition did not influence cell sensitivity to proteasome inhibition. 
Numerous  published  reports  analysed  the  bortezomib  in  vitro  system  effects,  and  demonstrated 
activity in the concentration range of 0.1 and 30nM, with cancer cells being more sensitive to the pro 
apoptotic effects of proteasome inhibition than normal cells (Adam et al. 1999, Hideshima et al.2001, 
Ma  et  al.  in  press,  Soengas  et  al.2002,  Singhal  et  al.  1999,  Barlogie  et  al  2001).  In  vitro 
pharmacodynamics studies conducted by the applicant showed that bortezomib did not appear to be a 
substrate  of  any  of  the  three  efflux  pumps  involved  in  multi-drug  resistance  (MDR).  Resistant  cells 
generated  from  two  MM  cell  lines  (RPMI  and  MM1)  showed  a  300-1000  fold  resistance  to 
bortezomib, and closely related boronate analogs. No over expression of PgP (P-glycoprotein), MRP3  
and MRP5 (MDR, associated proteins) was found, suggesting that an alternative mechanism confers 
resistance to bortezomib. This in vitro phenotype was not sustained in vivo in a xenograft model. The 
cells  did  not  lose  their  in  vitro  resistance  by  being  passed  through  the  animals.  In  another  study, 
analysis of expression of selected UPP in human solid tumours showed that the representative subset 
of  UPP  genes  includes  4  proteasome  subunits,  5  conjugating  enzymes,  and  4  U  ligases.  Genes 
encoding every component examined were elevated in one or more tumour types.  
5/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In all examined in vivo models using human tumour cell line xenografts, antitumour activity [tumour 
volume (TV) and delay in tumour growth (DTG), and apoptosis] and 20S proteasome inhibition have 
been observed at the higher dose used (1mg/kg), corresponding to 3mg/m2, which is near the MTD. In 
a study in LLC mice using bortezomib i.v..,4 days after implantation 0.3, 0.6 and 1.0mg/kg (0.9, 1.8 
and  3mg/m2)  2  x  week  for  two  weeks,  the  proteasome  inhibition  was  higher  in  whole  blood  (WB) 
compared with liver tissue. The low levels of bortezomib in tumour tissue was nevertheless sufficient 
to  inhibit  proteasome  and  reduced  TV.  A  greater  effect  on  TV  was  shown  after  combined 
administration with other chemotherapeutics, which do not seem to influence the intrinsic activity of 
bortezomib on the 20S proteasome. 
Bortezomib  was  investigated  to  exclude  the  potential  for  a  negative  response  in  MM  patients  who 
subsequently  undergo  autologous  stem  cell  transplantation.  Bortezomib  treatment  of  mice  did  not 
affect the ability of hematopoietic stem cell to form colonies in vitro. Cells from bortezomib treated 
animals were functional in a bone marrow transplant to completely repopulate peripheral blood cells in 
lethality irradiation recipient mice. 
A  series  of  impurities  (A,  E,  F,  G,  H,  I,  K,  J)  structurally  similar  to  bortezomib,  occurred  at  level 
greater than 0.1% (in any batches of the bortezomib drug substance) were synthesised and analysed in 
20S  proteasome  assay,  and  the  second  order  rate  constant  inhibition  (Kobs/[I])  was  used  as  an 
approximation of binding affinity, in comparison with bortezomib. Both the non-boronate compounds 
(impurity K and A) had undetectable activity. Of the boronate compounds, all but two had Kobs/[I]over 
200 fold lower than bortezomib, making them essentially inactive (impurities I,G,H,E). Two boronate 
tripeptides impurities F and J, however had a Kobs/[I] values 3-4 fold greater than bortezomib, so they 
were  analysed  in  a  more  detailed  way  in  order  to  identify  the  inhibition  Kos  and  Koff  and  the 
dissociation constant Ki. For impurities F and J, Ki values were 0.23 and 0.18nM respectively; thus 3-
4 fold more potent as inhibitors than PS-341 showing in this study a Ki of 0.69nM. These impurities 
are present in lots of the drug substance at levels of 1%, thus their contribution to the overall activity 
of  the  drug  would  not  seem  significantly  relevant.  In  any  case,  a  representative  PS-341  preparation 
(98%  pure)  was  directly  compared  in  the  20S  assay  with  a  highly  purified  bortezomib  (>99%  pure) 
sample, and plotting the Kobs versus [I] showed identical lines, indicating the same affinity for the 20S 
proteasome. Moreover, the potency too seems the same, since the Ki values for the two preparations 
were 0.60 and 0.74nM. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
Only  cardiovascular  effects  were  evaluated  in  3  non-GLP  studies  using  telemetered  (2  studies)  and 
unconscious  (1  study)  Cynomolgus  monkeys  (1-2/groups)  treated  with  doses  ranging  between  2.4-
3.6mg/m2.  In  all  studies,  the  animals  poorly  tolerated  the  high  doses  used.  At  acutely  lethal  single 
doses  bortezomib  induced  hypotension  and  initial  tachycardia  followed  by  progressive  hypotension, 
bradycardia,  hypothermia  and  eventual  death.especially  in  the  first  hours  post  dose.  Mechanistic 
studies  were  performed  to  investigate  the  hypotensive  effects  of  bortezomib,  indicating  that 
bortezomib promotes robust expression of PGE2 and PGI2 associated with induction of Cox-2, but not 
Cox-1, mRNA and protein.  
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
In vitro on MM cells, bortezomib increased the sensitivity of chemo resistant MM cells to melphalan, 
doxorubicin,  and  mitoxantrone.  In  vivo  in  LLC  model,  oral  and  i.p.  bortezomib  administration  in 
combination  with  5-FU, adriamycin, cisplatin, and  Taxol indicated that greater reduction in TV  was 
observed when drugs were co-administered, and combination treatments had no effects on proteasome 
activity and did not alter the inhibition of 20S by bortezomib. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  non-clinical  PK,  distribution,  metabolism,  and  excretion  properties  of  bortezomib  were 
determined  in  rats  and  cynomolgus  monkeys.  Toxicokinetic  (TK)  studies  were  conducted  in  rats, 
rabbits and cynomolgus monkeys. 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
6/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bortezomib is intended only for intravenous administration in MM patients. Therefore, the applicant 
has not conducted pharmacokinetic studies elucidating absorption of bortezomib.  
• 
Distribution 
After  single  i.v.  administration  to  rats  and  cynomolgus  monkeys,  plasma  bortezomib  concentrations 
declined in a bi-phasic manner with rapid distribution phase which was followed by a longer terminal 
elimination phase. The elimination half-time in monkeys was 8 to 10 hours. The AUC increased in a 
dose-dependent  manner  over  the  dose  range  of  0.05mg/kg  to  0.20mg/kg  in  rats  and  from  0.05  to 
0.10mg/kg in monkeys. After multiple doses, the elimination half-life increased in monkeys by 3 to 4-
fold that paralleled by decrease in total body clearance resulting in several fold increase in AUC.  
The Vd is large (30l/kg at week 38 in monkeys and 600l at week 2 in humans). There is a trend to a 
decreased Cl and accumulation with repeated doses. Bortezomib is bound 70-85% to plasma proteins. 
In all species, bortezomib concentrations are higher in plasma than in RBC (by 43%, 15% and 12% in 
rats,  monkeys  and  humans,  respectively).  Bortezomib  is  rapidly  distributed  into  most  tissues.  The 
tissue/plasma  concentration  ratio  in  most  tissues  was  >1,  indicating  extensive  movement  of  [14C]- 
bortezomib-derived radioactivity from the vascular compartment into the tissues, mostly in the liver, 
adrenals and kidney. Important exceptions are brain, testis and some parts of eye and optic nerve. At 
144 hours post dose, radioactivity is almost completely eliminated in liver and kidney, but reaches its 
highest concentrations in the lymph nodes, spleen and thymus. In the brain of monkeys, at 144 hours 
the level was 0.08(cid:31)g eq., and the CNS/blood concentration ratio was <1 (0.77).  
• 
Metabolism 
The  metabolism  of    bortezomib  was  investigated  in  laboratory  animals  and  in  man.  The  metabolite 
profiles  between  rat,  monkey  and  man  are  very  similar.  Over  30  metabolites  were  identified, 
deboronated metabolites M1 and M2 accounting over 90% of  the drug metabolism. The deboronated 
metabolites were shown not be pharmacologically active. M1 and M2 were subsequently hydroxylated 
to form M5, M6 and M8, or dealkylated to form M3 followed by deamination to M4. Bile collected 
from  bortezomib-treated  monkeys  did  not  elicit  inhibitory  activity  against  the  20S  proteasome.  The 
major part of the metabolism is accounted by CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. Bortezomib itself was a poor 
inhibitor of human recombinantly expressed CYP enzymes 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4. 
• 
Excretion 
A  preliminary  partial  comparative  biotransformation  pathway  has  been  created  using  hepatic 
microsomes. Biliary excretion is the major route of elimination in the rat, with about 39% and 21% of 
the administered radioactivity excreted in the faeces and urine respectively. The elimination is slow in 
rats and monkeys: 20-30% of the administered radioactivity was found in the carcass after 72 and 144 
hours. The excretion pattern seems to be different in rodents and in monkeys, being mainly biliary in 
rats and both biliary and urinary in monkeys. It is not clear whether human elimination resembles the 
rat or the monkey.  
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
Studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys  with  bortezomib  administered  i.v.., 
intraperitoneally (i.p.) and orally. In the majority of the studies, bortezomib was dissolved in dimethyl 
sulfoxide (DMSO). Following i.v.. administration (bolus or infusion), the acute MTD is 0.6mg/m2 for 
rats,  and  1.2mg/m2  for  monkeys,  corresponding  to  0.46  and  0.92  times  the  proposed  human  dose  
(1.3mg/m2). The dog was the species better tolerating the bortezomib with an MTD of 3.6mg/m2. No 
substantial  different  effects  were  observed  after  various  routes  of  administration.  No  information  on 
exposure is available, since in rats plasma and blood levels were only measurable at the higher dose 
used. The single treatment does not induce microscopic findings in rats and monkeys. In this species 
however, microscopic lesions were observed in animals in moribund conditions, probably due to drug 
toxicity, and included  pulmonary venous embolism and congestion, lymphoid necrosis of the spleen 
and  lymphnodes,  focal  myocardial  degeneration,  focal  hepatic  necrosis  and  skeletal  muscle 
7/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
haemorrhage.  
• 
Repeat dose toxicity 
A series of repeated dose studies were performed with different routes of administration in mice, rats, 
rabbits,  dogs  and  monkeys  in  order  to  establish  doses  and  timing  of  dosage  for  subsequent  main 
toxicity  GLP  studies.  The  main  GLP  studies  were  performed  in  rats  for  2  and  26  weeks  and  in 
monkeys for 4 and 38 weeks, using only i.v. route. 
After repeated administration, the GI tract (associated with emesis and diarrhoea in non rodents) with 
mucosal  hyperplasia,  and  lymphoid  tissues  (with  decreased  lymphocytes  counts  in  non  rodent)  are 
target organs of toxicity both in rats and in monkeys. In addition, in rodents decreased platelet counts 
(sometimes  with  bone  marrow  hyperplasia),  increased  liver  weight  associated  with  hypertrophy  of 
hepatocytes and vacuolisation were also observed. In monkeys, severe anaemia and thrombocytopenia 
associated  with  bone  marrow  suppression,  kidney 
tubular  degeneration/hypertrophy  and/or 
glomerulopathy, peripheral neuropathy characterized by axonal degeneration of sensory neurons were 
also observed. In rat studies, the NOAEL has not been determined either after 5 or 9 cycles, although 
the  lowest  dose  used,  0.05mg/kg  (0.3mg/m2)  induced  minimal  alteration  in  red  blood  cells,  blood 
glucose  and  hepatocellular/vacuolisation  hypertrophy,  which  do  not  compromise  animal  conditions. 
The MTD based on mortality was 0.6mg/m2, that is 0,46 times the proposed human dose  [1.3mg/m2 
associated with a Cmax of 10.7 and 10.9ng/ml (5 and 9 cycles respectively) and AUC 0-24 of 145 and 
134ng.h/ml (5 and 9 cycles respectively)], and with a mean peak 20S Proteasome inhibition of 80% at 
weeks 14 and 26. Microscopic changes were found in the spleen (at all doses), in kidneys (MD, HD) 
in bone marrow, nasal cavity, reproductive tract, thymus and caecum (mainly at HD). In monkeys the 
NOAEL  was not determined after bortezomib i.v..  administration for 13 cycles.  The MTD based on 
mortality  was  0.6mg/m2,  that  is  0,46  times  the  proposed  human  dose  (1.3mg/m2  associated  with  a 
Cmax of 48.2ng/ml and AUC  0-24 of 83.1ng.h/ml, and with a mean peak 20S Pr inhibition of 76%at 
week 38. Microscopic changes were found in the GI tract, bone marrow, kidney, PNS and lymphoid 
organs. In rats and monkeys, 8 weeks were not sufficient for recovery of all alterations. 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity 
The genotoxicity of bortezomib was evaluated using the bacterial reverse mutation assay, the in vitro 
chromosomal  aberration  in  CHO  and  in  vivo  erythrocyte  micronucleous  assay  in  mice.  Bortezomib 
was not mutagenic in assay systems using variety strains of Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia 
coli.  Bortezomib  shows  in  vitro  clastogenic  properties  inducing  structural  in  vitro  chromosomal 
aberrations in CHO cell assay at concentrations higher than those reached at the MTD. These findings 
were considered consistent with the intrinsic bortezomib mechanism of action, involving proteasome 
inhibition. In the in vivo test, up to 1mg/kg (3mg/m2) bortezomib did not induce a significant increase 
in micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes in either male or female mice. No carcinogenic studies 
have been done to assess possible consequences of clastogenicity in vivo, in agreement with Note for 
guidance on the pre-clinical evaluation of anticancer medicinal products (CPMP/SWP/997/96). 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
No  interspecies  comparison  of  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  due  to  different  dosing 
regimen  (once  daily  in  animals,  twice  weekly  in  humans),  and  to  the  unsuitable  exposure  and    PD 
activity data have been available. NOAEL in rat and rabbit teratology studies are 0.3mg/m2/day and 
0.28mg/m2/day,  respectively,  being  0.23  times  the  proposed  twice  weekly  human  dose  (1.3mg/m2). 
Bortezomib  caused  developmental  toxicity  in  neither  species  at  the  highest  maternally  tolerated 
dosages. No evaluation of effects on fertility or peri- and postnatal development is available. The 6-
month  rat  study  showed  testicular  seminiferous  tubule  degeneration  in  males  at  the  highest  dosage 
(0.20/0.15mg/kg), and ovarian luteal cell necrosis in females at all dosages (≥0.05mg/kg). Therefore, 
bortezomib is likely to have a potential effect on fertility. No studies were performed to investigate the 
absorption across placenta and in lactating animals.  
• 
Local tolerance 
A study was performed to investigate the potential venous and tissue irritancy of bortezomib following 
8/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a single injection i.v.., perivascular (p.v.) subcutaneous (s.c.), intraperitoneally (i.p.) and intramuscular 
(i.m.) route of 0.1mg/kg (1.1mg/m2) in New  Zealand male rabbits, at  the same dosing concentration 
(1mg/ml) used in clinical testing. An additional group of rabbits received the bortezomib excipient D-
mannitol  reconstituted  with  0.9%  Sodium  Chloride    for  injection  USP.  D-mannitol  i.m.,  and 
bortezomib  i.v..  and  i.m.  administrations  induced  erythema  and  oedema  (reaction  of  grade  0-3). 
Microscopic  changes  with  p.v.  administration  were  characterised  by  moderate  perivascular 
inflammation, oedema and necrosis of isolate keratinocytes in the stratum spinosum. In addition, after 
i.m. administration, locally extensive moderate degeneration and necrosis of myofibers were observed. 
All microscopic alterations were reversible in 72 hours. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Two studies have been performed to investigate potential immunotoxicity. One study was conducted 
in BALB/c mice treated twice-weekly i.p. at 0.3 and 0.6mg/kg (0.9 and 1.8mg/m2) for 18 days. There 
were no systemic toxicity and immunotoxicological effects, with a NOAEL of 0.6mg/kg (1.8mg/m2), 
approximately 38% higher than the intended clinical dosage (1.3mg/m2). Another study was conducted 
using an immunization model of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis with SJL/7J 0.5 female mice 
receiving  2mg/kg  (1.5,  6.0mg/m2)  for  28  days.  No  toxic  or  alterations  of  exomide  parameters  were 
observed at 0.5mg/kg (1,5mg/m2), which is 15% higher than the proposed human dose. 
A  toxicological  drug  interaction  study  was  performed  in  order  to  determine  possible  additive  or 
synergistic  effects  between  bortezomib  and  other  chemotherapeutic  agents:  5,  fluorouracil  (5-FU), 
Cytoxan  or  irinotecan.  With  any  combinations  of  bortezomib  with  5-FU,  Cytoxan  and  irinotecan, 
addictive but not synergistic effects on mortality and body weight loss was observed. In another study 
with  i.v.  administration  of  bortezomib  and  gemcitabine  alone  or  in  combination  and  to  determine 
possible  additive  or  synergistic  effects  of  co-administration,  the  toxicity  of  co-administered 
bortezomib and Gemcitabine was additive but not synergistic. The MTD for bortezomib in this study 
was  1-0mg/kg  (3.0mg/m2),  approximately  33%  of  the  proposed  human  dose.  Fourteen  non-GLP 
compliant  studies  conducted  in  mice  and  rats  early  in  the  development  of  bortezomib  in  which 
toxicity  with 
recorded, 
mortality  and  body  weight  assessment  were 
cyclophosphamide, Cytoxan, doxorubicin, irinotecan and Taxol. 
indicated  additive 
A  report  was  submitted  discussing  proteasome  inhibition  and  the  risk  for  prion  disease  following 
publication of two papers [Ma et al., Science 298, 1781-5 and 1785-8, 2002] investigating the role of 
the  ubiquitine-proteasome  system  in  the  degradation  of  prion-related  protein  (PP).  A  United  States 
National Cancer Institute expert group had concluded that these papers “raised questions that may not 
be  completely  answered,  if  ever,  until  there  have  been  many  years  of  post-treatment  evaluation  of 
large  patient  cohorts  possibly  achievable  only  with  Phase  4  post-marketing  accrual.”  The  Cancer 
Evaluation Treatment Program (CTEP) of the NCI noted that it was prudent to consider investigating 
the implications of the two papers.  They also noted that the available preclinical and clinical data do 
not suggest that patients treated with proteasome inhibitors are at increased risk of developing human 
prion disease and that there is no suggestion of a generalized public health hazard associated with the 
clinical  use  of  bortezomib.  Overall,  the  applicant  concluded  that  prion  disease  remains  a  theoretical 
but  thus  far  unproven  risk  for  patients  taking  bortezomib,  and  that  concern  for  this  risk  is  low  in 
people with multiple myeloma and other life-threatening diseases. 
An  environmental  risk  assessment  has  been  submitted,  from  which  it  results  that  bortezomib  has  a 
octanol-water  partition  coefficient  (Ko)  =  100.87,  that  would  suggest  some  partitioning  to  soils,  but 
using the “worst case  scenario” the  PECsurface  water would be 8.9 x 10-5µg/l, orders of magnitude below 
0.01µg/l. Based on the limited quantities expected to be used in Europe, no environmental impact is 
foreseen for bortezomib. 
9/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Bortezomib  showed  a  selective  and  reversible  interaction  with  the  20S  proteasome.  Ki  is  0.62nM, 
about  1400-14000  fold  lower  than  in  the  Kis  measured  against  a  panel  of  11  known  proteases.  The 
results  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  show  specific  anticancer  effects  and  seem  to  indicate  that 
bortezomib  induces  anticancer  activity  with  multiple  mechanisms  of  action.  In  vitro  inhibition  of 
growth,  proliferation,  activation  of  constitutive  factors,  influence  on  efflux  pump,  resistant  cells, 
cytotoxicity, overexpression of UPP genes, and PrP synthesis were reported in the concentration range 
of 0.1-30nM. An increased dependence on UPP had been considered as a part of the mechanism for 
enhanced sensitivity of cancer cells to proteasome inhibition. 
In xenograft models in vivo, reductions in TV, TGD, and effects on tumour survival and proliferation 
were noted.  All effects were achieved at 1mg/kg (3mg/m2) that is almost the MTD for the model, but 
is about 5 times higher than the MTD (0.6mg/m2) in rats and monkeys.  
Bortezomib was not expected to have any significant direct secondary pharmacodynamic actions and 
the  results  from  the  multiple  receptor  screening  system  are  consistent  with  this  view.  The  primary 
action is 20S proteasome inhibition but there could be multiple secondary pharmacodynamic actions 
in cells. 
In  multi-cycle  general  toxicity  studies  conducted  in  the  rat  and  monkey,  the  principal  target  organs 
included the gastrointestinal tract resulting in vomiting and/or diarrhoea, hematopoietic and lymphatic 
tissues resulting in peripheral blood cytopenias and lymphoid tissue atrophy and hematopoietic bone 
marrow  hypocellularity,  peripheral  neuropathy  (observed  in  monkeys,  mice  and  dogs)  involving 
sensory nerve axons, and mild changes in the kidneys.  All these target organs have shown partial to 
full recovery following discontinuation of treatment. 
Based on animal studies, the penetration of bortezomib through the blood-brain barrier appears to be 
limited,  if  any  and  the  relevance  to  humans  is  unknown.  However,  the  neurological  dysfunctions 
reported  in  dogs  and  the  neurotoxicity  reported  in  humans  made  the  issue  about  the  potential 
penetration  of  bortezomib  in  the  nervous  system  of  some  concern.  The  applicant  has  provided 
additional  reassuring  information  on  the  penetration  of  bortezomib  into  the  CNS  but  some  concerns 
remain on this topic, which the applicant committed to carefully monitor in man. Studies are ongoing 
to  clarify  the  mechanism  responsible  for  the  peripheral  neuropathy  observed  in  monkeys,  mice  and 
dogs,  believed  to  be  due  to  a  dose-related  disruption  of  the  normal  homeostasis  of  some  of  the 
cytosolic proteins involved in axonal transport.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Bortezomib  bioavailability  appears  to  be  low,  regardless  of  administration  route  and  species. 
However, the exposures achieved in the chronic toxicity studies were comparable to those obtained in 
cancer patients. 
The conventional ADME studies have been done for distribution, metabolism and elimination, but not 
for  absorption, since specific PK data after single and  repeated doses are lacking. TK exposure data 
are  available  for  rats  and  monkeys.  They  appear  adequate  to  determine  systemic  exposure  of 
bortezomib in toxicity studies, but not to assess its complete PK behaviour, the plasma concentration 
time curves and the linearity of kinetics. 
The  plasma  profile  in  rats,  monkeys  and  humans  receiving  multiple  doses  (0.9,  1,2  and  1mg/m2 
respectively)  are  quite  similar,  with  a  rapid  distribution  half-life  (about  30  minutes)  and  a  slower 
elimination phase.  
Bortezomib is highly bound (≥80%) to plasma proteins, as determined from both in vitro and in vivo 
studies.  After  labelled  bortezomib  administration,  radioactivity  was  not  detectable  in  the  brain  and 
spinal cord of rats but it has been observed the brain of monkeys at levels equivalent to those seen in 
fat tissue and higher than in bone marrow. Some concerns remain on the real penetration into brain in 
animal species used and if there is a quantitative different penetration in rat and monkey brain. 
The  CYP  450  dependent  hepatic  metabolism  was  only  investigated  in  vitro  inhibition  and  induction 
10/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studies,  and  no  formal  drug-drug  interactions  studies  have  been conducted. The  P450 metabolism is 
high. All tested CYP, but CYP 2C19, contribute to form M1 and M2 metabolites up to a 76%, while 
the remaining 24% of bortezomib was hydroxylated with retention of the boron moiety. Bortezomib 
seems a poor inhibitor and inductor of P450 system enzymes. Phase II pattern does not seem to have a 
major role in the metabolism of bortezomib. All metabolites seen in pre-clinical animal models have 
also  been  seen  in  humans,  in  whom  M2  is  the  more  abundant  metabolite,  while  M4  is  the  main 
metabolite in rats and monkeys.  
Tissues  and  carcass  contained  about  36  %  of  radioactivity  at  72  hours  after  administration  of 
bortezomib indicating that large proportion of radioactivity is retained in tissues.  
The  overall  picture  of  bortezomib  PK  behaviour,  the  main  differences  in  animal  models,  and  their 
relevance in  humans are not completely elucidated. This is probably due to the lack of PK data, the 
high variability of human data and the poor information on hepatic biotransformation (only addressed 
in rodents and human microsomes).  
Toxicology 
In  all  species  examined,  no  substantial  different  effects  were  observed  after  various  routes  of 
administration (index of a good absorption and solubility of the product). It was not possible to have 
information on exposure, since in rats the plasma and blood levels were measurable only at the higher 
dose used. In monkeys, the TK profiles seems to have very little relationship to dose.  
There is a sufficient overlap between findings in pre-clinical models, especially in monkeys, and the 
most common adverse effects reported in humans (Study M34100-025). 
Due to different sensitivity and validation of analytical methods, TK and PK data are not sufficient to 
allow a final safety margin (SF) calculation based on exposure. In any case, the SF based on AUC are 
2.5  and  1.5  fold  for  rats  and  monkeys,  respectively,  while  SF  based  on  Cmax  are  considerably  less 
than 1 (0.08 and 0.038 in rats and monkeys, respectively). PD activity data are limited and calculation 
of SF is complicated by the fact that the relationship between plasma concentrations and proteasome 
inhibition  is  characterized  by  a  Emax  model,  in  which  the  plateau  effect  is  achieved  at  inhibition 
greater than 80%, that is the percentage inhibition reported at the rat and monkey MTD. 
The dosage (mg/m2) remains the only possible determinant of SF, resulting in a SF of less than 1. The 
MTD values are 0.6mg/m2 for rats and monkeys, compared with proposed human dose of 1.3mg/m2 
with  a  resulting  SF  of  0.46.  In  addition,  bortezomib  appears  active  in  xenograft  models  at  doses 
(3mg/m2) 5 times higher than MTD in rats and monkeys. Although bortezomib should be considered 
rather toxic, it is to be noted that SF less than 1 is not uncommon for anticancer drugs. 
Peripheral neurotoxicity, primarily in sensory neurons, was observed both in rats and monkeys as well 
as in man. It was classified mainly as axonal degeneration. Studies are ongoing aiming to clarify the 
mechanism  responsible  for  the  peripheral  neuropathy  observed,  believed  to  be  due  to  a  dose-related 
disruption of the normal homeostasis of some of the cytosolic proteins involved in axonal transport. 
The applicant has committed to submit the results of these studies as a follow-up measure.  
The Applicant has adequately investigated genotoxicity of bortezomib in various in vitro and in vivo 
models. Bortezomib was positive for clastogenic activity (structural chromosomal aberrations) in the 
in vitro chromosomal aberration assay using Chinese hamster ovary cells at  concentrations as low as 
3.125µg/ml, which was the lowest concentration evaluated. Bortezomib was not genotoxic when tested 
in the in vitro mutagenicity assay (Ames assay) and in vivo micronucleus assay in mice. Currently, the 
in  vivo  consequences  of  clastogenicity  are  not  fully  known,  and  no  carcinogenic  studies  have  been 
performed to assess the possible consequences. Positive genotoxicity results are common for cytotoxic 
agents, and could be acceptable in the overall evaluation of risk/benefit ratio for a product proposed 
for MM cancer treatment. The Applicant has not performed any formal carcinogenicity studies, which 
may be considered acceptable for the intended clinical use of bortezomib.  
Developmental toxicity studies in the rat and rabbit have shown embryo-fetal lethality at maternally 
toxic  dosages,  but  no  direct  embryo-foetal  toxicity  below  maternally  toxic  dosages.  Fertility  studies 
were not performed but evaluation of reproductive tissues has been performed in the general toxicity 
studies.  In  the  6-month  rat  study,  degenerative  effects  in  both  the  testes  and  the  ovary  have  been 
11/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
observed. It is, therefore, likely that bortezomib could have a potential effect on either male or female 
fertility. Peri- and postnatal development studies were not conducted.  
Bortezomib  is  moderately  irritant  (at  approximately  85%  of  the  proposed  human  dose)  when 
administered i.v., p.v. and i.m. but not s.c and i.p.  
Bortezomib seems devoid of potential adverse interactions on the immune system at doses up to 1.5 
and 1.8mg/m2. 
Bortezomib showed additive but not synergistic effects with other anticancer drugs. Therefore, caution 
is needed if bortezomib is co-administered with these chemotherapeutic agents. 
No environmental impact is expected with the use of bortezomib. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  clinical  development  program  for  bortezomib  included  Phase  I  dose-escalation  studies  of  both 
bortezomib monotherapy (either on solid tumours and in haematological malignancies patients),  and 
bortezomib  in  combination  with  other  chemotherapeutics  in  solid  tumours  (e.g.,  gemcitabine, 
irinotecan, and docetaxel). The data to support the anti-tumour activity of bortezomib in patients with 
relapsed  and  refractory  multiple  myeloma  are  derived  from  two  multi-centre,  open-label,  non-
comparative  studies  (M34100-024,  M34100-025).  The  first  study  is  a  Phase  II  randomised  single-
agent  study  of  two  doses  of  bortezomib  (1,0  or  1,3mg/m2  IV),  the  second  is  a  single-agent  study 
testing one dose only (1,3mg/m2 IV); the administration was identical in both studies: bortezomib was 
administered  to  patients  twice  per  week  for  two  weeks  (days  1,4,8,11)  followed  by  a  10-day  rest 
period,  for  a  maximum  of  up  to  8 cycles  of  treatment. Pharmacodynamic (PD)  and pharmacokinetic 
(PK) data are available from these Phase I and II studies using both conventional (intense sampling) 
and population (sparse sampling) approaches. Sparse pharmacodynamic and limited pharmacokinetic 
data are also available from two Phase II studies. A Phase III study of bortezomib compared with high 
dose dexamethasone for patients with relapsed myeloma (1 to 3 prior therapies) (Study M34101-039) 
and  a  non-comparative  study  (Study  M34101-040)  were  ongoing  at  the  time  of  submission  of  the 
marketing authorisation application. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Two  bortezomib  formulations  have  been  developed  for  intravenous  bolus  administration.  Initially,  a 
liquid formulation was used in 17 patients enrolled in the two earliest Phase I trials (Study 98-104 and 
Study  98-194).  This  formulation was subsequently  replaced in April 1999  with  the  final lyophilized 
drug product formulated with mannitol in order to increase stability and solubility when reconstituted 
in normal saline. This formulation has been used in all subsequent Phase I and II studies, it is currently 
being  used  in  the  Phase  III  study  and  it  is  the  intended  to-be-marketed  formulation.  All  the 
pharmacokinetic  data  have  been  obtained  with 
thus 
bioequivalence studies have not been conducted. 
lyophilized  formulation, 
the  current 
Single-dose kinetics have been obtained in solid tumour patients during Phase I studies and in multiple 
myeloma patients in Phase II studies. The initial understanding of multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of 
bortezomib is derived from a study in patients with solid tumours receiving the drug in combination 
with  gemcitabine.  An  increase  in  the  AUC  (approximately  2-fold)  was  observed  following  the  third 
dose  of  bortezomib  as  compared  to  the  first  dose.  In  parallel,  clearance  decreased  by  approximately 
50% and t½ increased roughly 2-fold. No PK data available over the entire 11-day cycle. 
The  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  performed  in  patients  participating  phase  I  or  II,  receiving 
bortezomib  by  i.v.  route,  by  using  a  validated  LC/MS/MS  analytical  method,  with  a  limit  of 
quantitation  of  0.5ng/mL.  None  of  the  pharmacokinetic  studies  presented  included  sampling  at  time 
points  between  6  and  24h,  thus  making  impossible  an  accurate  and  precise  estimate  of  the  terminal 
half-life and clearance of bortezomib.  
Data  on  pharmacokinetics  in  special  populations,  and  interaction  studies  have  not  been  presented. 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis is being performed in the ongoing Phase III study (M34101-039) 
in multiple myeloma patients. 
12/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic  assessment  was  performed  in  Phase  I  studies  DM98-194,  LCCC9834/00-31,  and 
98-104 A, and in Phase II studies M34100-025, and M34100-02. Although the pharmacodynamic data 
are indicative of a biological effect of the drug that is consistently observed in blood 1h after treatment 
with doses of bortezomib higher than 1.0mg/m2, it seems that, at least with the assay developed so far 
to evaluate 20S proteasome activity, the quantitative characterization of the kinetic of recovery and the 
correlations  between  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  of  bortezomib  were  not  precisely 
defined. A very large variability of the effect, both in terms of levels of inhibition and in terms of its 
kinetic of recovery was observed. The control 20S proteasome values before treatment appeared very 
variable too. This variability was attributed to the variability of the assay. It was claimed that at low 
levels  of  inhibition  of  20S  proteasome  activity  the  variability  is  very  high,  whereas  when  there  is  a 
high level of inhibition (i.e. at doses greater than 1.0mg/m2) the assay were claimed to be robust.  
Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  characterisation  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  bortezomib  in  patients  with  cancer  and  in  special 
patient  groups  is  insufficient.  Given  the  toxicity  of  bortezomib,  healthy  volunteer  studies  are  not 
feasible.  The  analytical  assay  for  the  determination  of  bortezomib,  developed  and  validated  by 
applicant is certainly adequate in terms of precision and accuracy, but the lower limit of quantitation 
(i.e.  0.5mg/mL)  is  not  low  enough  for  a  reliable  determination  of  bortezomib  at  long-time  intervals 
after i.v. doses of 1.0-1.3mg/m2. None of the pharmacokinetic studies presented showed an adequate 
sampling  time  protocol  (i.e.  no  time  points  between  6  and  24h), making impossible an accurate  and 
precise estimate of the terminal half-life and clearance of bortezomib. 
No  data  are  available  to  describe  the  repeated  dose  pharmacokinetics  of  bortezomib  when  used  as 
recommended in the SmPC and as used in the clinical studies (1.3mg/m2 twice weekly for two weeks, 
followed by 10-day rest period). The very small treatment groups and the narrow dose-range studied 
preclude a conclusive assessment of dose-dependence of the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib. Plasma 
bortezomib vs. time data are only available in 8 patients who participated in the pivotal Phase II trial -
025 and received the dose level intended for clinical use. The data show remarkable inter-individual 
variability.  
There  are  no  data  on  dose-dependency  following  repeated  administration  of  bortezomib  alone.  The 
only  available  PK  data  on  repeated  administration  of  bortezomib  come  from  study  -027  where 
bortezomib  was  co-administered  with  gemcitabine.  The  possibility  of  a  PK  interaction  with 
gemcitabine  has  not  been  totally  ruled  out.  More  clarification  is  expected  from  the  population  PK 
analysis of an ongoing study in multiple myeloma. 
The  observed  changes  in  bortezomib  clearance  after  repeated  doses  are  a  matter  of  concern,  as  they 
might  require  dose  and  treatment  schedule  adjustments  during  the  therapy.  The  mechanisms 
underlying the observed clearance changes were not investigated and elucidated.  
There are no data on the actual routes of elimination and the relative contribution of renal and biliary 
excretion routes in man. The data are derived from animal studies. Biliary elimination predominated in 
rats, whereas both urinary and biliary routes were prominent in the cynomolgus monkey. 
The  effects of gender, age or race on the PK of bortezomib have not been investigated. Bortezomib 
has not been formally studied in children and in patients with impaired renal or hepatic function. The 
scarce data on the effect of mild to moderate renal impairment suggest that exposure is higher in these 
patients compared with those with normal renal function. However, the data are inconclusive. No data 
are available on the effects of liver impairment, although it is very likely that liver impairment would 
result  in  a  clinically  significant  impact.  The  lack  of  data  in  special  populations  has  been  adequately 
reflected in the SPC. 
The applicant has committed to conduct further studies to investigate the PK in patients with renal or 
hepatic  impairment  compared  with  patients  with  normal  organ  function.  As  an  adjunct  to  the 
population  PK  study  nested  in  ongoing  Phase  III  trial,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  conduct  a 
13/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical PK study in 24 patients with multiple myeloma receiving bortezomib at the doses of 1.0 and 
1.3mg/m2,  twice  a  week  for  two  weeks  followed  by  a  rest  period.  The  aim  of  this  study,  which  is 
expected to be performed in 2004 and completed by the end of 2005, is to investigate (a) bortezomib 
PK after single and multiple dose treatment; (b) the mechanisms behind the observed changes in the 
PK parameters after repeated dosing; (c) any clinically plausible intrinsic factors that may explain and 
reduce variability; (d) the relationship between body weight/body surface area/lean body weight) and 
PK  parameters  since  dosing  regimen  is  based  on  BSA;  (e)  the  concentration-proteasome  inhibition 
relationship using  PK/PD-modelling. 
In  vitro  bortezomib  is  a  relatively  weak  inhibitor  of  CYP1A2,  2C19,  2D6  and  3A4:  this  has  been 
confirmed  by  the  fact  that  newly  provided  IC50  and  Ki  for  CYP  isoenzymes  in  human  liver 
microsomes  are  much  higher  than  bortezomib  maximal  plasma  levels.  However,  clinically  relevant 
interactions cannot be totally excluded. In fact, more than 10-fold differences in Cmax are observed in 
the  available  limited  data  on  single-dose  PK.  Furthermore,  pre-clinical  data  clearly  show  that 
bortezomib has a high Vd and that tissue concentrations are higher than plasma concentrations. Formal 
interaction  studies  cannot  be  carried  out  in  healthy  volunteers.  The  SmPC  now  includes  appropriate 
general warnings.  
The  major  metabolic  pathway,  presumably  mediated  by  CYP3A4,  leads  to  the  formation  of  a 
metabolite with no observed proteasome inhibition properties. This is clearly a risk factor in terms of 
potential  pharmacokinetic  interactions.  Inhibitors  of  CYP3A4,  such  as  macrolides,  fluconazole, 
itraconazole,  ketoconazole  and  fluoxetine,  which  may  be  frequently  used  by  cancer  patients,  might 
increase the risk of toxicity of bortezomib on one hand. On the other hand, CYP3A4 inducers, such as 
dexamethasone  (frequently  used  in  myeloma  patients),  rifampicin,  phenytoin  and  carbamazepine 
might  lead  to  loss  of  efficacy.  The  lack  of  reduced  activity  in  patients  receiving  dexamethasone  in 
combination cannot be taken as a demonstration of the lack of interaction. The drug-drug interaction 
will be further investigated in PK and PK/PD studies of bortezomib and inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) 
of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.  
Pharmacodynamics 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  effect  of  bortezomib  is  proteasome  inhibition.  The  plasma 
concentration-proteasome  inhibition  relationship  suggests  a  rapid  transition  from  high  level  of 
inhibition (hours 1-6) to low level of inhibition by 24 hours. However, the relationship is based on a 
small  number  of  patients  with  available  PK/PD  data.  The  dose-proportionality  of  proteasome 
inhibition both at peak and at trough together with dose-dependence of exposure to bortezomib within 
a  relatively  narrow  dose-range  suggests  that  the  level  of  proteasome  inhibition  could  be  affected  by 
pharmacokinetic  interactions,  renal  impairment  and liver  impairment.  The  clinical  relevance  of  such 
interferences is not known. The evaluation of proteasome inhibition data in the planned PK study in 
patients  with  multiple  myeloma,  in  the  PK  studies  in special  patient groups and in the ketoconazole 
interaction study will hopefully provide some more information. 
The  results  of  the  Phase  II  study  M34100-025  in  myeloma  patients  receiving  bortezomib  alone 
(1.3mg/m2  on  Days  1,  4,  8,  and  11  followed  by  10-day  rest  period)  or  with  dexamethasone  suggest 
only a slight accumulation of the peak and trough 20S proteasome-inhibiting activity between the first 
and the fourth dose of a cycle. The mean peak inhibition was 61% (range 14-97%) at 1 hour after the 
injection. However, as samples were only collected at pre-dose, 1 hour post-dose, and 24 hours post-
dose (in a subset of patients), it cannot be concluded that the peak inhibition values represent true peak 
inhibition.  The  quantitative  characterization  of  the  kinetic  of  recovery  and  the  correlations  between 
pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  bortezomib  were  not  precisely  defined.  In  a  subset  of 
only  9  patients,  the  percent  inhibition  of  20S  proteasome  activity  was  decreasing  at  24  hours,  but 
nevertheless  exceeded  50%  in  2  of  these  patients  and  it  suggests  high  variability  in  recovery  (from 
approximately  10% to 60% inhibition remained at 24  hours). It is remarkable  that  an approximately 
20% inhibition,  with a high degree of variability, was observed before the first dose of Cycle 7, i.e. 
after  the  10-day  rest  period.  This  clearly  suggests  that  recovery  of  proteasome  activity  can  be  very 
slow. Possible reasons for the high degree  of variability,  including the low precision of the assay to 
determine low levels of 20S proteasome activity inhibition, should be discussed. While it is feasible to 
identify a pattern of gene expression that is related to the sensitivity or resistance to bortezomib, at this 
stage 
too  preliminary  for  any  realistic  clinical  application.  The 
pharmacodynamic  studies  suggest  that  bortezomib  causes  a  transient  partial  inhibition  of  20S 
the  results  obtained  are 
14/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proteasome activity. The interval of bortezomib doses at which a sufficiently high level of inhibition 
was  observed  appears  to  be  between  1.0mg/m2  and  2.0mg/m2.  Within  this  interval  of  doses,  the 
experimental  data  do  not  suggest  a  clear  increase  in  the  inhibitory  activity.  No  statistical  analysis 
support  the  contention  of  a  correlation  between  bortezomib  doses  and  the  inhibition  of  20S 
proteasome activity. 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Dose response 
The dose of bortezomib selected for Phase II studies in multiple myeloma was 1.3mg/m2, and the dose 
regimen  was  a  3-week  treatment  cycle  consisting  of  bortezomib  administration  twice  weekly  for  2 
weeks (Days  1,  4,  8,  and 11) followed  by a 10-day rest period, for a maximum of up to 8 cycles of 
treatment. This dose regimen was suggested by pre-clinical and clinical data.  
Three  Phase  I,  dose-escalation  studies  of  bortezomib  monotherapy  have  been  conducted  in  patients 
with  advanced  malignancies  either  in  solid  and  non-solid  cancers,  for  a  total  of  123  patients.  In  the 
Phase  I  single  agent  studies,  bortezomib  was  evaluated  at  doses  ranging  from  0.13  to  2.0mg/m2 
administered  as  a  bolus  IV  injection  either  once  or  twice  per  week.  Additional  information  on  the 
disposition  of  bortezomib  after  repeated  dose  administration  was  collected  from  a  Phase  1  study  of 
bortezomib  with  gemcitabine  in  patients  with  solid  tumours  (M34100-027).  Although  a  novel  PD 
assay  (inhibition  of  20S  proteasome  activity)  has  been  developed  as  a  guide  to  dose-escalation  in 
Phase  I  studies,  the  evaluation  of  the  dose-limiting  toxicity  was  based  on  clinical  observation  (DLT 
and MTD). 
The  study  DM98-194,  (initiated  October  1998)  was  a  Phase  I,  dose  escalation  study  designed  to 
determine the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), the pharmacokinetics 
and pharmacodynamics of bortezomib administered as IV bolus once weekly for 4 consecutive weeks 
(on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22), followed by a 2-week rest period in patients with advanced solid tumours 
(primarily  prostate  cancer  patients).  The  study  was  conducted  at  MDACC  in  Houston,  Texas  in  53 
patients, and provided the first assessment of the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib in 24 patients.   
Study 98-104A (initiated February 1999) was a Phase I, single-centre, dose escalation study designed 
to determine the DLT, MTD, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of bortezomib administered as 
IV  bolus  in  3-week  treatment  cycles  consisting  of  bortezomib  administration  twice  weekly  for  two 
consecutive  weeks  (on  Days  1,  4,  8,  and  11)  followed  by  a  10-day  rest  period  in  patients  with 
advanced solid tumours.  The study was conducted at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and 
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) in 43 patients. 
Study LCCC9834/00-31 (initiated November 1999) was a Phase I, two-centre, dose escalation study 
designed to determine the DLT, MTD, and pharmacodynamics of bortezomib administered as an IV 
bolus  in treatment cycles consisting of bortezomib administration twice  weekly for four consecutive 
weeks (on Days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22, and 25) followed by a 14- to 17-day rest period in patients with 
advanced  haematological  malignancies.  This  study  was  conducted  at  MSKCC  in  27  patients,  and  it 
was the first study conducted in patients with haematologic malignancies, with a total of 13 cases with 
multiple myeloma or related plasma cell dyscrasia. 
DLT was defined as any Grade 4 haematologic toxicity, Grade 4 hyperbilirubinemia, and any ≥ Grade 
3  non-haematologic  toxicity  (with  the  exception  of  alopecia  and  Grade 3  hyperbilirubinemia).  By 
convention, any of the above events were to have occurred during Cycle 1 and be considered by the 
investigator  to  be  at  least  possibly  related  to  the  study  drug  in  order  to  be  considered  a  DLT.  The 
intensity  of  toxicities  was  assessed  according  to  the  National  Cancer  Institute  Common  Toxicity 
Criteria (NCI CTC), version 2.0. 
In  Studies  LCCC9834/00-31  and  98-104A,  the  MTD  was  defined  as  the  highest  dose  studied  for 
which  the  incidence  of  DLT  was  ≤33%.  In  Study  DM98-194,  in  which  the  continual  reassessment 
method was used for dose escalation, the MTD was defined as the dose level having a mean posterior 
DLT  probability  closest  to  25%.  In  Study  DM98-194,  in  which  bortezomib  was  administered  once 
weekly for four weeks to patients with solid tumours (mostly prostate cancer), DLTs were observed in 
a total of 6 patients treated at doses ≥1.6mg/m2. DLTs reported among these 6 patients included Grade 
15/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3  diarrhoea  (4  patients),  Grade  3  hypotension  or  orthostatic  hypotension  (2  patients),  and  Grade  3 
tachycardia  NOS,  vision  abnormal  NOS,  and  syncope  (1  patient  each).  The  MTD  in  this  study  was 
determined to be 1.6mg/m2. In Study 98-104A, in which bortezomib was administered twice weekly 
for 2 weeks to heavily pretreated patients with advanced solid tumours, DLTs were observed in a total 
of  3  patients  treated  at  a  dose  of  1.56mg/m2.  DLTs  reported  for  these  3  patients  included  Grade  3 
diarrhoea (3 patients) and Grade 3 peripheral sensory neuropathy (1 patient). Based on these findings, 
the MTD was established at 1.3mg/m2. 
The MTD was lower, 1.04mg/m2, when bortezomib was administered twice per week for four weeks 
to  patients  with  haematologic  malignancies,  including  multiple  myeloma  (Study  LCCC9834/00-31). 
Utilizing  this  treatment  schedule,  DLTs  were  observed  at  1.04,  1.20  and  1.38mg/m2  and  included 
Grade 3 hyponatremia (4 patients), Grade 3 hypokalemia (2 patients), and Grade 3 malaise (1 patient). 
No haematologic DLTs (Grade 4) were reported in any Phase I study. 
The 3 Phase I studies in monotherapy (DM98-194, 98-104, LCCC 9834/00-31) demonstrated an MTD 
of bortezomib of 1.6, 1.3 and 1.04mg/m2, respectively. 
Dose  limiting  toxicities  of  diarrhoea  and  peripheral  sensory  neuropathy  were  observed  at  a  dose  of 
1.56mg/m2 (MTD 1.3mg/m2) using a regimen identical to that evaluated in Phase II of twice weekly 
doses for 2 weeks followed by a 10-day rest period. Two of the Phase I studies evaluated the twice-
weekly dosing schedule, 1 with dosing over a 2-week period and 1 with dosing over 4 weeks. These 
studies suggested that the earlier rest period, i.e., after 2 weeks of twice weekly dosing, appeared to be 
better tolerated. 
Evidence of anti-tumour activity in patients with multiple myeloma had been seen in 6 of 10 patients 
at doses at or above 1.04mg/m2 in the Phase I study including patients with haematologic malignancies 
(LCCC 9834/00-31, N. 27). Thus, doses at or above 1.0mg/m2 were anticipated to be active in patients 
with multiple myeloma. 
Overall,  66  (54%)  of  the  123  patients  enrolled  in  Phase  I  studies  withdrew  prematurely.  The  most 
common  reason  (37%)  was  progressive  disease.  The  proportion  of  withdrawals  due  to  disease 
progression was lower in the >1.3mg/m2 group (10 of 43 patients; 23%) than in the <0.7mg/m2 group 
(12  of  29 patients;  41%)  and  0.7  to  1.3mg/m2  group  (24  of  51 patients;  47%).  An  apparent  dose-
relationship was noted with regard to the proportion of withdrawals due to adverse events/toxicity (19, 
15%), with 1 (3%) of the 29 patients in the <0.7mg/m2 group, 5 (10%) of the 51 patients in the 0.7 to 
1.3mg/m2 group, and 13 (30%) of the 43 patients in the >1.3mg/m2 group. 
The  regimen  selected  to  be  further  tested  in  Phase  II  and  Phase  III  studies  (1.0  or  1.3mg/m2 
administration twice weekly for 2 weeks (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a 10-day rest period) was 
consistent with preliminary preclinical data and with results from formal Phase I studies. 
The intermittent and high inhibition of 20S proteasome enzyme activity was believed to account for 
the antiproliferative and apoptotic effect of bortezomib. The return toward pre-treatment level and the 
complete  recovery  of  proteasome  activity  between  doses  and  cycle,  respectively,  were  considered 
important to minimize toxicity in view of the physiological function of this ubiquitous enzyme. 
The  novel  PD  assays,  that  was  developed  and  used  as  a  guide  to  dose  escalation  and  to  the 
development of dose regimen  strategies in  MM  patients, was not actually used for the evaluation of 
dose-limiting toxicity for the limitation of clinical pharmacology tests (limited time points collections 
during therapy and variability of the assay that was reported to be low when there is a high level of 
inhibition  and  high  when  the  level  of  inhibition  is  low).  Traditional  clinical  DLT  and  MTD 
parameters,  together  with  standard  evaluation  of  toxicity/side  effects  were  actually  used  to  define 
optimum anti-tumour doses and schedule to take forward into Phase II and Phase III trials.  
•  Main studies  
The  data  supporting  the  anti-tumour  activity  of  bortezomib  in  patients  with  relapsed  and  refractory 
multiple  myeloma  come  from  two  multi-centre,  open-label,  non-comparative  studies  (M34100-024, 
M34100-025). Study M34100-024 initiated in May 2001 and was completed in July 2002, while study 
M34100-025 initiated in January 2001 and was completed in June 2002. The Applicant has conducted 
16/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an efficacy Phase III, multi-centre, international, randomised study of bortezomib compared with high 
dose dexamethasone for patients with relapsed myeloma (1 to 3 prior therapies) (Study M34101-039), 
which has been terminated early, reportedly because of bortezomib better efficacy; a companion non-
comparative study (Study M34101-040) is also ongoing. 
Methods 
• 
Study Participants 
In Study M34100-024, bortezomib was administered at doses of 1.0 and 1.3mg/m2 given alone or in 
combination  with  dexamethasone  in  case  of  inadequate  response  to  bortezomib  monotherapy,  to 
patients  with  multiple  myeloma  who  had  failed  to  respond  to  or  had  relapsed  following  either 
conventional  or  high-dose  front-line  therapy.  Patients  who,  in  the  investigator’s  opinion,  were 
benefiting  from  bortezomib  treatment  in  the  current  study  were  eligible  to  continue  treatment  in  an 
extension study (M34101-029) outside the auspices of this protocol. 
In  study  M34100-025,  bortezomib  was  administered  at  the  dose  of  1.3mg/m2  given  alone  or  in 
combination  with  dexamethasone  in  case  of  inadequate  response  to  bortezomib  monotherapy,  to 
patients  with  multiple  myeloma  who  had  relapsed  disease  after  initial  front-line  therapy  and  were 
refractory to their most recent therapy, whether or not containing systemic corticosteroids. 
Patients  were  heavily  pretreated  and  in  resistant  relapse  (progressing  on  their  most  recent  therapy) 
after having received conventional and novel treatments for their disease. More than 99% of patients 
had received prior treatment with steroids, 92% had received prior alkylating agent therapy, 81% had 
received  prior  anthracyclines  and  83%  had  received  prior  therapy  with  thalidomide.  Among  all  202 
patients, 98% had received at least 2 of these 4 types of chemotherapeutic agents, 92% had received 3 
of these 4 agents, and 66% had received prior therapy with all 4 chemotherapeutics. In addition, 64% 
of  patients  had  received  prior  high  dose  therapy  including  bone  marrow  transplant.  Nine  percent  of 
patients did not meet the entry criteria: 91% of the 202 patients had progression of disease as assessed 
by the investigator while receiving their last therapy and an additional 4% exhibited transient minimal 
or partial response with relapse within 3 months or less, a time period generally considered consistent 
with refractory disease.  The most common treatments administered immediately prior to study entry 
were  thalidomide,  administered  in  45%  of  patients  and  combination,  or  single  agent,  chemotherapy 
given in 20%. Evidence of the progressive state of their disease included a median of one month from 
last  therapy  to  study  entry  with  only  4%  of  patients  ending  therapy  ≥6  months  prior  to  bortezomib. 
Table 1 reports the basic summary statistics regarding prior treatments received for myeloma: 
17/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. 
Previous  Therapy  for  Multiple  Myeloma  (All  Patients;  Studies  M34100-025  and 
M34100-024) 
Therapy 
Any prior steroids 
(e.g., dexamethasone, 
VAD) 
Any prior alkylating agents 
(e.g., MP, VBMCP) 
Any prior anthracyclines 
(e.g., VAD, mitoxantrone) 
Any prior thalidomide 
therapy 
Received ≥ 2of the abovea 
Received ≥ 3 of the abovea 
Received all 4 of the abovea 
Any prior stem cell 
transplant 
Pts ≤65 yrs at entry w/ 
BMT 
Pts >65 yrs at entry w/ 
BMT 
Prior experimental/other 
therapy 
No. prior regimens of 
treatment 
N 
Mean ((cid:31)SD) 
Median 
Minimum, maximum 
Study M34100-025 (1.3 mg/m2) 
by Cohort and Overall 
Cohort 
2 
(n=124) 
Cohort 
1 
(n=78) 
Total 
(n=202) 
Study M34100-024 
1.3 
mg/m2 
(n = 26) 
1.0 
mg/m2 
(n = 28) 
Total 
(n = 54) 
78 (100) 
123 (99) 
201 (>99) 
27 (96) 
26 (100) 
53 (98) 
71 (91) 
115 (93) 
186 (92) 
21 (75) 
18 (69) 
39 (72) 
65 (83) 
98 (79) 
163 (81) 
12 (43) 
17 (65) 
29 (54) 
58 (74) 
110 (89) 
168 (83) 
9 (32) 
7 (27) 
16 (30) 
77 (99) 
68 (87) 
49 (63) 
121 (98) 
117 (94) 
85 (69) 
198 (98) 
185 (92) 
134 (66) 
25 (89) 
14 (50) 
2 (7) 
24 (92) 
14 (54) 
4 (15) 
49 (91) 
28 (52) 
6 (11) 
44 (56) 
85 (69) 
129 (64) 
15 (54) 
11 (42) 
26 (48) 
39/54 
(72) 
5/24 (21) 
63/82 
(77) 
22/42 
(52) 
102/136 
(75) 
10/15 
(67) 
9/18 (50) 
19/33 
(58) 
27/66 (41) 
5/13 (38) 
2/8 (25) 
7/21 (33) 
34 (44) 
55 (44) 
89 (44) 
3 (11) 
3 (12) 
6 (11) 
78 
6 (2.4) 
5 
2, 15 
124 
6 (2.9) 
6 
2, 15 
202 
6 (2.8) 
6 
2, 15 
28 
3 (1.8) 
3 
1, 7 
26 
3 (1.6) 
3 
1, 7 
54 
3 (1.7) 
3 
1, 7 
Abbreviatoions:  MP  =  melphalan  and  prednisone;  VAD  =  vincristine,  doxorubicin,  and 
dexamethasone;  VBMCP  =  vincristine,  carmustine,  melphalan,  Cytoxan,  prednisone.    These  are 
distinct regimens. 
a  Received  2,  3  or  4  of  the  following:    dexamethasone,  alkylating  agents,  anthracyclines,  or 
thalidomide. 
• 
Treatments 
In  study  M34100-024,  all  patients  were  to  receive  bortezomib.  Bortezomib  doses  were  1.0  or 
1.3mg/m2  (based  on  random  assignment)  administered  as  a  rapid  intravenous  (IV)  bolus  twice  per 
week for two weeks (on Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a 10-day rest period (Days 12 to 21). This 
3-week period was to be considered a treatment cycle; Cycle 2 was to commence on Day 22 (Cycle 2, 
Day 1). A complete treatment cycle was comprised of 4 bortezomib doses. Patients were to receive a 
maximum of eight treatment cycles. Patients who experienced progressive disease (PD) after receiving 
bortezomib 1.3mg/m2 alone in Cycles 1 and 2, or PD or no change (NC) after receiving bortezomib 
1.3mg/m2 alone in Cycles 3 and 4 (as compared with their status at the end of Cycle 2) or Cycles 5 and 
6 (compared with their status at the end of Cycle 4) were to start treatment with bortezomib 1.3mg/m2 
plus dexamethasone. Dexamethasone 20mg was to be administered orally (PO) four times per week on 
each day of and on day after bortezomib administration for two consecutive weeks (on Days 1, 2, 4, 5, 
8,  9,  11,  and  12).  Thus,  for  every  dose  of  bortezomib  1.3mg/m2,  patients  were  to  receive  a  total  of 
40mg dexamethasone. 
In study M34100-025, patients were to receive bortezomib 1.3mg/m2 administered following the same 
scheme used for M34100-024. 
18/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In both studies, patients were to receive a maximum of eight 3-week treatment cycles; therefore, the 
maximum duration of treatment in this study was 24 weeks (~6 months). The actual number of cycles 
administered for each patient was based on the response to therapy. 
• 
Objectives 
o
o
o
The primary objective of both studies was to determine the response rate (the combined CR + PR + 
MR) Secondary objectives were: 
o
To  assess  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  bortezomib  1.3mg/m2/dose  alone  and  in  combination 
with dexamethasone in patients with multiple myeloma; 
To  obtain  additional  pharmacodynamic  information  for  bortezomib  1.3mg/m2/dose  in  patients 
with multiple myeloma as assessed by the proteasome inhibition assay; 
To  obtain  additional  genomic  information  on  multiple  myeloma  and  its  response  to  drugs. 
Special assays (e.g., IL-6) were to be done to obtain information on multiple myeloma disease 
markers and mechanisms of action of bortezomib in this disease. Pharmacogenomic findings are 
presented outside the auspices of this report; 
To pilot a composite quality of life (QOL) instrument [European Organization for Research and 
Treatment  of  Cancer  (EORTC)  Quality  of  Life  Questionnaire  (QLQ)-C30,  QLQ-MY24 
Multiple  Myeloma  modules 
of  Cancer  Therapy 
(FACT)/Gynecology  Oncology  Group  (GOG)  and  Functional  Assessment  of  Chronic  Illness 
Therapy  (FACIT)  surveys  of  neurotoxicity  and  fatigue,  respectively)]  in  evaluating  potential 
changes in QOL during treatment and correlating QOL to response data. 
and  Functional  Assessment 
• 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  protocol-defined  primary  endpoint  for  both  Study  M34100-025  and  M34100-024  was  the 
proportion of patients with an objective response to treatment, that is complete remission (CR), partial 
response  (PR),  or  minimal  response  (MR).  The  responses  were  based  on the stringent  Blade  criteria 
and  were  determined  by  an  independent  review  committee  (IRC)  comprised  of  three  experts  in  the 
diagnosis  and  treatment  of  myeloma.  Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  included  time  to  progression, 
reduction in myeloma paraprotein levels, time to response, duration of response, overall survival, and 
measures of clinical benefit including quality of life. 
• 
Sample size 
Study M34100-024 was to enrol 32 patients into each of the 2 dose groups (1.0 and 1.3mg/m2), for a 
total  of  64  patients.  This  sample  size  estimate  was  based  on  the  aim  to  determine  if  the  true  rate  of 
response to bortezomib alone was at least 20%, at the one-sided alpha-level of 0.05 and having at least 
80%  power  to  conclude  that  the  rate  of  response  was  40%  or  more.  This  sample  size  was  to 
accommodate stratification within each treatment group. 
For  study  M34100-025,  a  total  of  up  to 200  patients were to be enrolled. The original protocol was 
planned to include 75 patients and was amended to enrol a second cohort of 125 patients. The primary 
conclusions regarding treatment efficacy, as prospectively defined in the protocol, were to be based on 
the  initial  planned  cohort  of  75  patients,  with  corroborative  evidence  of  effectiveness  and 
characterization of the safety profile derived from the second cohort.  
• 
Randomisation 
Study M34100-024 was a prospective, randomised, open-label, multicentre study designed to evaluate 
the  efficacy  and  safety  of  2  dose  levels  of  bortezomib.  Randomisation  was  stratified  at  each  study 
centre according to stage of disease and type of front-line chemotherapy administered (conventional or 
high dose). Study M34100-025 was a single arm trial. 
• 
Blinding (masking) 
In  an  effort  to  minimize  bias  due  to  the  uncontrolled  open-label  design,  an  IRC  consisting  of  three 
independent  physicians  with  expertise  in  multiple  myeloma  was  employed  for  the  assessment  of 
patients’  response  to  treatment.  The  IRC’s  assessment  was  used  in  all  statistical  analyses  of  disease 
response. The IRC had written operating procedures. 
19/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Statistical methods 
For  both  studies,  the  statistical  analysis  was  to  focus  on  the  need  to  estimate  response  rates  within 
specified  limits  of  accuracy  in  order  to  determine  if  bortezomib  alone  or  in  combination  with 
dexamethasone  was  sufficiently  efficacious  to  warrant  further  clinical  study.  The  primary  efficacy 
analysis was to be performed on disease response to the initial regimen of bortezomib alone, where a 
responder  was defined  as a CR, PR,  or  MR, based on the results of the IRC’s  independent  majority 
disease response assessment. In addition, the CR rate was to be presented. Two-sided 90% confidence 
limits on the percentage of responders were to be established to determine if the lower bound exceeded 
20% (study M34100-024) or 10% (study M34100-025) In the analysis, when patients failed to respond 
to  bortezomib  alone  (regardless  of  their  potential  subsequent  response  to  the  combination  therapy), 
this was considered as treatment failure. 
The final efficacy analysis was performed using three definitions of complete remission: 
(cid:131)  CRBlade:  (CR  by  complete  Blade  criteria):  100%  reduction  in  serum  and  urine  M  protein  by 
both protein electrophoresis and immunofixation negative status on two determinations at least 
6  weeks  apart,  a  bone  marrow  examination  with  <5%  plasma  cells,  stable  bone  disease  and 
normal calcium levels. 
(cid:131)  CRIF+: PR by Blade criteria: i.e., a 100% reduction in serum and urine M protein (with >95% 
reduction  for  confirmation)  independent  of  immunofixation  status;  stable  bone  disease  and 
normal calcium levels. 
(cid:131)  CRSWOG: PR by Blade criteria: a ≥75% reduction in paraprotein levels confirmed at a 6 week 
interval along with stable bone disease and normal calcium levels. 
Efficacy  analyses  were  performed  using  the  IRC  evaluated  population  for  primary  efficacy  and  “all 
treated patients” population for secondary efficacy measures. In study M34100-024, all analyses were 
conducted by dose group. 
The primary efficacy analysis was performed on disease response to the initial regimen of bortezomib 
alone, where a responder was defined as a patient who achieved CR, PR, or MR, based on the results 
of  the  IRC’s  independent  two-thirds  majority  disease  response  assessment.  The  criteria  used  by  the 
IRC were according to Blade et al., 1998. Efficacy analyses were performed on the rate of responders 
for  the  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population,  where  a  responder  was  defined  for  this  analysis  as  a  patient 
who at any point in the study achieved a CR, PR, or MR from bortezomib alone. 
At  variance  with  what  established  in  the  protocol,  for  analysis  of  rates  of  response,  a  patient  was 
included  in  the  category  CR  if  the  patient  achieved  either  a  CRBlade  or  a  CRIF+;  since  the  CRIF+ 
classification is being recently used in published trials, this overall CR rate was felt most relevant by 
the applicant. Two-sided 90% confidence limits on the percentage of responders were established. In 
this analysis, all patients in the IRC Evaluated population who failed to respond to bortezomib alone, 
regardless  of  their  potential  subsequent  response  to  the  combination  therapy,  were  considered 
treatment failures. 
Additional analyses consisted of evaluations for each dose group of time to and duration of response 
(overall  and CR) for the IRC evaluated  population,  and time to disease progression and survival for 
the  All  Treated  Patients  population.  Time-to-event  analyses  used  standard  survival  analysis 
techniques, such as Kaplan-Meier test methods. These analyses were performed for those patients who 
received bortezomib alone and for all patients (regardless of receipt of combination therapy).  
Duration of response on bortezomib alone was defined as the time from first diagnosis of response to 
time of progression. Patients who went on to receive dexamethasone in combination with bortezomib 
were  censored in  this analysis at the last evaluation prior to starting  combination  treatment. Patients 
who went on to receive additional bortezomib in the extension study M34101-029 were also censored 
in the analysis at the last evaluation prior to starting additional therapy. 
Duration of response on bortezomib alone or in combination was defined similarly, as the time from 
first  diagnosis  of  response  to  time  of  progression.  For  those  patients  who  progressed  during  the 
treatment phase of the study, the date of progression was based on review by the IRC and for those 
patients  who  progressed  off  treatment,  the  date  was  determined  by  the  study  centre  investigator. 
20/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who went on to receive additional bortezomib in the extension study M34100- 029 were also 
censored in the analysis at the last evaluation prior to starting additional therapy. The response rate to 
bortezomib alone (CR + PR rate) relative to all other responses (MC, NC, PD and NE) was assessed in 
univariate and multivariate analyses, as functions of a pre-specified number of prognostic factors. The 
categorical  factors  were  analysed  using  the  Fisher’s  Exact  Test,  and  continuous  variables  were 
analysed with logistic regression. In addition, a multivariate logistic regression analysis was conducted 
using  firstly  all  prognostic  factors  in  the  model,  and  then  using  a  step-wise  selection  method  where 
terms were retained at the 0.20 significance level. 
Survival  was  defined  from  the  date  of  first  dose  of  bortezomib  to  the  date  of  death,  regardless  of 
treatment received. Patients who had not died were censored for this analysis at the last documented 
date at which the patient was known to be alive. 
Quality  of  Life  assessment  based  on  the  EORTC  QLQ-C30  and  EORTC  QLQ-MY24  Multiple 
Myeloma  modules  and  FACT/GOG  and  FACIT  surveys  of  neurotoxicity  and  fatigue,  respectively, 
were  analysed  for  each  dose  group  to  determine  if  response  to  therapy  was  accompanied  by 
measurable  improvement  in  quality  of  life.  The  analysis  was  performed  on  summary  scores,  as 
specified in the literature. 
Results 
• 
Participant flow  
Study M34100-024 
A total of 58 patients with multiple myeloma were screened for enrolment in this clinical study and 54 
patients were enrolled and treated at 10 study centres in the USA. Four patients were screen failures. 
Twenty-eight patients were enrolled and treated in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and 26 in the 1.3mg/m2 
dose group. 
Twenty-four (86%) of the 28 patients in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and 19 (73%) of 26 patients in the 
1.3  mg/m2  dose  group  completed  4  or  more  treatment  cycles.  Patients  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group 
were more likely to receive at least one dose in Cycle 8 and were more likely to complete the study 
through  Cycle  8.  Dexamethasone  was  added  to  bortezomib  in  16  (57%)  of  the  28  patients  in  the 
1.0mg/m2  dose  group  and  in  12  of  the  26  (46%)  patients  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group.  Combination 
therapy was initiated in Cycles 2 to 4 for 6 patients in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and for 3 patients in 
the 1.3mg/m2 dose group and in Cycles 5 to 8 for 10 patients in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and for 9 
patients in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group The investigator could elect to place patients with PD or NC in 
disease status on combination treatment at protocol-specified time points, that is after 4 cycles if NC or 
PD or (by amendment) for PD after 2 cycles. 
Twenty-five patients were reported to have terminated the study prematurely, including 9 patients in 
the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group  and  16  patients  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group.  Among  the  9  patients  who 
terminated early in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group, the majority (6 patients) terminated prior to Cycle 5 and 
3 terminated after that time. In the 1.3mg/m2 dose group, 8 of the 16 patients terminated prior to Cycle 
5, and 8 terminated after that time. The reasons reported for early termination, i.e., termination other 
than  for  CR  prior  to  completion  of  8  treatment  cycles,  were  similar  for  the  2  dose  groups,  with  the 
exception of AE, which was more frequently in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group. A total of 9 (35%) of the 26 
patients in the high-dose group compared to 3 (11%) of 28 in the low-dose group terminated the study 
due to AEs. 
A total of 28 (52%) of the 54 patients had at least one bortezomib dose held for AEs during the study; 
the proportion of patients with doses held was higher in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group (17 of 26 patients, 
65%) compared with the 1.0mg/m2 dose group (8 of 28 patients, 29%). Similarly, a higher proportion 
of  patients  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group  had  a  dose  reduction  due  to  AEs  (9  of  26  patients,  35%) 
compared with the lower dose group (11 of 28 patients, 39%). 
Four of the 54 patients did not receive correct random assignment. . Data from all 4 of these patients 
were tabulated under dose received. 
The population for analysis of primary efficacy results, i.e., response to treatment, included a total of 
21/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53  patients,  27  from  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group  and  26  from  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group.  Secondary 
efficacy analyses, including time to progression, survival and clinical benefit analyses, were conducted 
on the All Treated Patients population (N = 54). 
Table 2. Summary of the population for analysis and participants flow for study M34100-024 
Enro
lmen
t 
Alloc
ation 
Follo
w-up 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=58)  
Excluded (n=4) 
Screening failure (n=4) 
Randomised (n=54) 
Allocated to PS341 1.0 mg/m2 (n=28) 
Received allocated intervention (n=28) 
Allocated to PS341 1.3 mg/m2 (n=26) 
Received allocated intervention (n=26) 
Discontinued intervention; give 
reasons (n=9) 
Discontinued intervention; give 
reasons (n=16) 
Analysi
s 
Analysed (n=27)  
Excluded from response 
analysis; give reasons (n=.1 
Not evaluable for response by 
Study M34100-025 
Analysed (n=26) 
A  total  of  214  patients  were  recruited,  of  which  202  patients  with  relapsed/refractory  multiple 
myeloma were enrolled in this study at 14 study centres in the USA, 78 patients in Cohort 1 and 124 
patients in Cohort 2. The first patient received the first dose of bortezomib on 26 February 2001 and 
the  last  patient  received  the  first  dose  on  10  December  2001.  The  initial  cohort  of  78  patients  was 
based on all patients who received their first dose of bortezomib as of 23 July 2001.  
The  two  Cohorts  were  similar  with  regard  to  patient  disposition.  A  total  of  196  (97%)  of  the  202 
patients completed at least one treatment cycle, with 83% completing at least two cycles of treatment. 
Seventy-eight (39%) of the 202 patients were reported to have completed the study through Cycle 8 
(i.e.,  received  dosing  in  Cycle  8).  Dexamethasone  was  added  to  bortezomib  in  78  (39%)  of  the  202 
patients; combination therapy was initiated in Cycles 2 to 4 for 27 patients and in Cycles 5 to 8 for 51 
patients. 
22/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Early termination from the study, i.e., termination for reasons other than CR before completion of 8 
treatment  cycles,  was  reported  for  122  (60%)  of  the  202  patients;  the  main  reasons  for  early 
termination  were  lack  of  efficacy  (54  patients;  27%)  and  adverse  event  (45  patients;  22%).  Five 
additional patients (2%) terminated the study because they missed 3 of the 4 doses within a treatment 
cycle due to toxicity (required by protocol) and 4 (2%) terminated because of overcome illness. Other 
reasons for early termination included patient  request  (8 patients; 4%),  lost to follow-up (4 patients; 
2%)  and  non-compliance/administrative  reasons  (2  patients;  <1%).  A  total  of  13  patients  were 
assigned  patient  numbers  but  did  not  receive  any  dose  of  bortezomib  in  this  study.  Of  these  13 
patients, 11 did not meet the protocol entry criteria, 1 patient withdrew consent to participate, and for 
1 patient the reason was not specified. 
Data from all the 202 patients enrolled and treated in this study were included in the safety analyses. 
Primary efficacy analyses were conducted on the ITT population. The study protocol (by amendment) 
allowed  for  patients  with  non-measurable  disease  to  be  enrolled.  These  patients  could  have  been 
enrolled into the study with non-measurable serum and urine M protein, defined as serum IgG <10g/L, 
serum  IgA  <5g/L,  and  urine  M  protein  <0.2g/24  hrs.  As  patients  with  non-measurable  disease  are 
difficult to evaluate for response, the statistical analysis section of the protocol provided that primary 
efficacy analyses would be conducted only on patients with measurable serum or urine M protein. The 
protocol  also  noted  that  the  IRC  would  not  review  data  from  patients  with  non-measurable  disease. 
However,  in  order  to  provide  a  more  complete  review  of  the  results  from  all  patients  treated  in  this 
protocol, all data for all patients were reviewed by the IRC, including the data from 13 patients with 
non-measurable disease at baseline. Following IRC review, patients with non-measurable disease who 
the IRC determined could not be assessed for response were excluded from the analysis. Patients with 
measurable disease who were determined by the IRC not to be assessed for efficacy were included in 
the analyses as non-responders. A total of 9 patients with non-measurable disease were excluded from 
the efficacy analyses, including 2 (3%) of the 78 patients in Cohort 1 and 7 (6%) of the 124 patients in 
Cohort  2,  as  the  IRC  could  not  evaluate  their  response  to  treatment.  Thus,  the  ITT  population  for 
analysis  of  primary  efficacy  results,  i.e.,  response  to  treatment,  includes  a  total  of  193  patients,  76 
from  Cohort  1  and  117  from  Cohort  2.  Secondary  efficacy  analyses,  including  time  to  progression, 
survival  and  clinical  benefit  analyses  were  conducted  on  the  All  Treated  Patients  population  (N  = 
202). 
Table 3. Summary of the population for analysis and participants flow for study M34100-024 
• 
Baseline data 
In study M34100-024, the two dose groups were similar with regard to most of the demographic and 
baseline characteristics. The majority of the 54 patients treated in this study were female (31 patients, 
57%) and white (45 patients, 83%); mean age was 64 years in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and 60 years 
in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group, with a range of 30 to 84 years. The majority of patients (31 of 53, 57%) 
had a KPS score of 90 to 100 reported by the investigator at baseline, including 17 (61%) of the 28 
patients  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group  and  14  (54%)  of  the  26  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group.  Only  7 
(13%)  patients  had  a  Karnofsky  performance  status  score  of  70.  Serum  M-protein  was  of  the 
immunoglobulin G (IgG) subtype in 32 (59%) of the 54 patients including 15 (54%) of the 28 patients 
in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and 17 (65%) of the 26 in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group. Fourteen (26%) of 
the  54  patients  had  serum  M-protein  of  the  immunoglobulin  A  (IgA)  subtype;  7  (13%)  patients  had 
light chain disease and 1 (2%) patient had non-secretory myeloma at study entry. 
Most patients (31 of 53 patients with data, 58%) had advanced stage disease (Durie Salmon stage IIIA 
23/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or IIIB) at diagnosis; this was similar across treatment groups. Median duration between diagnosis of 
multiple myeloma and first dose of bortezomib was 2.0 years in both the 1.0mg/m2 and 1.3mg/m2 dose 
groups, with mean duration since diagnosis of 3.9 and 2.3 years, respectively. Seven (25%) of the 28 
patients in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group were more than 5 years from diagnosis at the time of study entry 
compared  with  2  (8%)  of  the  26  patients  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group.  The  proportion  of  patients 
<1year  from  diagnosis  was  lower  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group  (6  of  28,  21%)  than  in  the  1.3mg/m2 
dose group (8 of 26, 31%). 
Among patients with IgG multiple myeloma and data available for assessment, mean serum IgG was 
32.5g/L  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group  (n  =  10)  and  24.4g/L  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group  (n  =  15)  at 
baseline.  Among  patients  with  IgA  multiple  myeloma  and  data  available,  mean  serum  IgA  was 
18.2g/L  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group  (n  =  7)  and  24.2g/L  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group  (n  =  5)  at 
baseline. 
Four of the 28 (14%) patients in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group had significant renal impairment (creatinine 
2mg/dL)  compared  with  none  of  the  26  patients  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group;  serum  creatinine  was 
1.5mg/dL  in  21%  and  8%  of  patients  in  the  1.0mg/m2  and  1.3mg/m2  dose  groups,  respectively.  In 
addition,  mean  and  median  creatinine  clearance  were  lower  in  patients  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group 
compared with patients in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group. 
Median  â2-microglobulin  at  study  entry  was  8.4mg/L  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose group; in  approximately 
58%  of  patients,  this  prognostic  factor  was  4mg/L  at  baseline  and  in  50%,  â2-microglobulin  was 
6mg/L.  In the 1.3mg/m2 dose group, median  baseline â2-microglobulin was  lower at 3.6mg/L, and a 
lower proportion of patients in this dose group had â2-microglobulin 4mg/L (58%) and 6mg/L (39%), 
compared  with  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group.  Eighty-nine  percent  (89%)  of  patients  had  an  abnormal 
skeletal survey at screening, including 82% (23 of 28 patients) in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and 96% 
(25 of 26 patients) in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group. 
Chromosome abnormalities were assessed in 24 patients in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and 23 patients in 
the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group  from  their  screening  bone  marrow  plasma  cells.  The  cytogenetics  analysis 
was abnormal in 7 (29%) of 24 patients in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and in 11 (48%) of 23 patients in 
the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group.  Chromosome  13  deletions  were  noted  in  5  (11%)  of  the  47  patients  with 
samples obtained, including 8% (2/24) of patients in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group and 13% (3 of 23) of 
patients in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group. 
More patients (5 of 28 patients; 18%) in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group had received blood products over 
the 6 months prior to study entry than in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group (1 of 26 patients; 4%). No patients 
in either dose group were reported by the investigator to be transfusion dependent at study entry. 
Mean  hemoglobin  level  at baseline (Cycle 1, Day  1)  was 111.9g/L in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group  and 
114.5g/L  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group;  21%  of  patients  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group  and  17%  in  the 
1.3mg/m2  dose  group  had  a  hemoglobin  level  <100g/L,  with  1  patient  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group 
having  NCI  CTC  Grade  3  anemia  (hemoglobin  <80g/L)  at  study  entry;  no  patients  had  NCI  CTC 
Grade  4  anemia.  Mean  platelet  count  at  baseline  was 166.6  and 208.3 x  109/L in  the  1.0mg/m2  and 
1.3mg/m2 dose groups, respectively. No patients in either dose group entered the study with NCI CTC 
Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 50 x 109/L). 
In study M34100-025, the two study cohorts were similar with regard to demographic characteristics. 
The  majority  of  the  202  patients  treated  in  this  study  were  male  (121  patients;  60%)  and  Caucasian 
(164  patients;  81%).  The  mean  age  of  patients  overall  and  within  each  cohort  was  60  years  with  a 
range  of  34  to  84  years.  Baseline  Karnofsky  performance  status  score  was  determined  by  the 
investigator to be 70 for 40 (20%) of the 196 patients with data available, including 19 (25%) of the 76 
patients in Cohort 1 and 21 (18%) of the 120 patients in Cohort 2. Serum M protein was of the IgG 
subtype in the majority (60%) of the 202 patients, with 24% of patients having IgA subtype. Fourteen 
percent  (14%)  of  patients  had  light  chain  disease,  1  (<1%)  patient  had  IgM  myeloma,  and  2  (<1%) 
patients  had  IgD  myeloma.  Oligo-secretory  myeloma  (serum  IgG  M  spike  <1g/dL,  IgA  M  spike 
<0.5g/dL, or urine M spike <200mg/24hrs) was observed in 17 (8%) of the 202 patients and 2 (1%) 
patients had non-secretory myeloma at study entry. 
Approximately three-fourths (133 of 185 patients, 72%) of patients had advanced stage disease (Durie-
24/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salmon stage IIIA or IIIB) at diagnosis. Median duration between diagnosis of multiple myeloma and 
first dose of bortezomib was 4.0 years in both Cohorts, with mean durations since diagnosis of 4.3 and 
4.7 years, respectively.  
Among the 103  patients with IgG multiple  myeloma  and data available for assessment, mean serum 
IgG was 36.6g/L at screening. Among the 43 patients with IgA multiple myeloma and data available, 
mean serum IgA was 30.4g/L. 
Mean  and  median  â2-microglobulin  at  study  entry  were  3.6  and  2.8mg/dL  in  Cohort  1;  in 
approximately 32% of patients this measure of disease severity was 4 mg/L at baseline and in 18%, â2-
microglobulin was 6mg/L. In Cohort 2, mean and median baseline â2-microglobulin were higher at 6.8 
and  4.0mg/dL,  respectively,  and  a  higher  proportion  of  patients  in  this  cohort  had  â2-microglobulin 
4mg/L (50%) and 6mg/L (31%) compared with Cohort 1 (32% and 18%, respectively). 
Renal function also appeared to be more compromised in Cohort 2 compared with Cohort 1. This may 
be  related  to  an  amendment  to  the  protocol  (Amendment  6)  allowing  for  patients  with  more 
compromised renal function to be enrolled in the study. Four (5%) of the 78 patients in Cohort 1 had 
significant  renal  impairment  (creatinine  2  mg/dL)  compared  to  11  (9%)  of  123  patients  in  Cohort  2 
with data available at baseline; serum creatinine was 1.5mg/dL in 13% and 28% of patients in Cohorts 
1  and  2,  respectively.  In  addition,  mean  and  median  creatinine  clearance  were  lower  in  patients  in 
Cohort  2  than  patients  in  Cohort  1,  with  mean  and  median  creatinine  clearance  values  of  83.8  and 
79.6mL/min, respectively, in Cohort 1 and 77.7 and 70.4mL/min, respectively, in Cohort 2. 
Over 95% of patients with data available had an abnormal skeletal survey at the screening visit. A total 
of  15  (7%)  of  the  202  patients  had  extramedullary  plasmacytomas  identified  at  the  screening  visit 
including 2 patients (3%) in Cohort 1 and 13 (10%) in Cohort 2. The extramedullary plasmacytomas 
were  most  commonly  located  in  soft  tissue  or  were  paraspinal;  two  patients  had  plasmacytomas 
identified  in  the  skull,  one  patient  had  renal  and  adrenal  plasmacytomas  identified,  and  one  had  a 
plasmacytoma  identified  in  the  maxillary  sinus.  Chromosomal  abnormalities  were  assessed  in  172 
patients who had cytogenetics analysis done on their screening bone marrow cells. The cytogenetics 
analysis was abnormal in 60 (35%) of these 172 patients. The most common abnormality reported was 
the deletion of chromosome 13 observed in 26 (15%) of 172 patients. 
Mean haemoglobin level at baseline (Day 1, Cycle 1) was 105g/L (10.5g/dL) in Cohort 1 and 101g/L 
(10.1g/dL)  in  Cohort  2.  In  Cohorts  1  and  2,  35%  and  49%  of  patients,  respectively,  had  a  baseline 
haemoglobin level <10g/dL, with 5% and 6% of patients, respectively, having NCI CTC Grade 3 or 4 
anemia  (haemoglobin  <8.0g/dL).  Mean  platelet  count  was  175  and  154.109/L  in  Cohorts  1  and  2, 
respectively.  In  Cohorts  1  and  2,  12%  and  15%  of  patients,  respectively,  had  Grade  3 
thrombocytopenia  (platelet  count  <50.109/L)  at  baseline.  Note  that  there  were  no  restrictions  on 
transfusion  support  that  could  be  given  prior  to study entry;  therefore, baseline haematologic  values 
may reflect recent transfusion. 
Overall,  65  (32%)  of  202  patients  had received blood products during the six months  prior to  study 
entry, including 21 (27%) of the 78 patients in Cohort 1 and 44 (35%) of the 202 patients in Cohort 2. 
Fifty-two (26%) of the 202 patients had received red blood cell transfusions during the 6 months prior 
to  study  entry;  the  number  of  red  cell  transfusion  events  (i.e.,  received  at  least  one  transfusion  on  a 
given  day)  ranged  from  1  to  12  events  with  a  mean  of  2.  Platelet  transfusions  were  administered 
during  the  six  months  prior  to  study  entry  in  32  (16%)  of  the  202  patients;  the  number  of  platelet 
transfusion events ranged from 1 to 6 with a mean of 2. Twenty-four (12%) of the 202 patients were 
reported by the investigator to be transfusion-dependent at study entry, 7 (9%) of 78 patients in Cohort 
1 and 17 (14%) of 124 patients in Cohort 2. 
• 
Outcomes and estimation 
In  Study  M34100-024,  the  overall  response  rate  to  treatment  with  bortezomib  alone  was  higher,  at 
50%, in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group with a 90% lower confidence bound of 32.7%, compared with 33% 
in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group  with  a  90%  lower  confidence  bound  of  18.6%.  The  rate  of  CR+PR  to 
bortezomib alone was 38% in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group and 30% in the 1.0mg/m2 dose group. Overall, 
57%  of  patients  in  the  1.0mg/mg2  dose  group  and  46%  of  patients  in  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  groups 
received  combination  treatment  with  bortezomib  and  dexamethasone.  The  ORR  to  treatment  with 
25/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bortezomib alone or in combination with dexamethasone was 62% (16 of 26 patients) with a two-sided 
90%  CI  lower  bound  of  43.6%  for  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group  and  was  44%  (12  of  27  patients)  with 
two-sided  90%  CI  lower  bound  of  28.0%  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group.  The  rates  of  response  for 
patients  achieving  either a  CR or PR were also higher in the 1.3mg/m2 dose group (50%) compared 
with the 1.0mg/m2 dose group (37%). 
In Study M34100-025, the overall response rate to treatment with bortezomib alone was 33% with a 
lower  90%  confidence  bound  of  24%  in  Cohort  1;  this  result  was  confirmed  in  Cohort  2  with  an 
overall response rate of 36% and a lower 90% confidence bound of 28.5. Calculation of 95% bounds 
yielded minimal difference in the lower bound. The overall response rate of the 193 patients included 
in the ITT population was 35% (lower 95% bound 28.0%). A total of 53 (27%) of the 193 patients had 
a  CR  or  PR  to  treatment  with  bortezomib  alone.  The  complete  remission  rate  to  bortezomib  alone 
(CRBlade  and  CRIF+)  was  10%  (12%  in  Cohort  1  and  9%  in  Cohort  2)  in  Study  M34100-  025. 
CRBlade were 7 (4%). 
The CR rate was similar in Study M34100-024 with a combined CR rate of 7.5% and CRBlade of 4%. 
In  both  studies,  patients  with  either  no  change  in  disease  status  or  progression  of  disease  could 
continue in the study and add dexamethasone 40mg to each dose of bortezomib at the investigator’s 
discretion.  A  total  of  74 and 28 patients included in the ITT  population in studies M34100-025  and 
M34100-024, respectively, went on to combination therapy. A higher proportion of patients in study 
M34100-024  with  a  sub  optimal  response  to  bortezomib  experienced  an  improved  response  on 
combination  therapy  with  dexamethasone  [11  (39%)  of  28  patients]  compared  to  patients  in  study 
M34100-025  [18  (24%)  of  74  patients].  Two  patients  in  study  M34100-024  achieved  a  complete 
remission (IF+) on the combination. 
The response data to bortezomib alone (CR + PR) were subjected to both univariate and multivariate 
analyses  to  examine  the  effect  of  standard  prognostic  markers  on  response  and  to  examine  the 
response in subgroups of patients. CR + PR rate to bortezomib was not adversely affected by gender, 
type of myeloma (e.g., heavy vs light chain), or type or number of prior therapies. Patients >65 years 
of age had a lower response rate than those <65 years (19% vs 32%, p=0.06). In addition, patients with 
>50%  plasma  cells  at  the  screening  bone  marrow  assessment  had  a  statistically  significantly  lower 
response rate (20%) than those with <50% plasma cells in the bone marrow (35%; p = 0.030). There 
was  no  difference  in  CR  +  PR  rate  for  patients  with  chromosome  13  abnormalities  as  detected  by 
conventional  methodology  (24%),  a  known  marker  of  poor  prognosis,  compared  to  those  without 
abnormalities (28%). 
26/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While  the  CR  +  PR  rate  was  slightly  lower  in  patients  with  an  elevated  (cid:31)2-microglobulin  in  the 
univariate  analysis  (p=0.071)  it  did  not  remain  a  factor  in  the  multivariate  examination.  In  the 
multivariate analysis, categorical variables age and percent plasma cells in the bone marrow were both 
statistically significant at p <0.05. 
• 
Ancillary analyses 
In addition to the primary endpoint of overall response rate, study M34100-025 data were analysed for 
parameters that describe time to critical events, which included time to response, duration of response, 
time to disease progression and survival. These analyses were conducted using standard Kaplan-Meier 
methodology. 
Response  to  bortezomib  was  rapid  (38  days)  and  consistent  across  different  response  categories.  In 
addition, it was durable in this relapsed and refractory population, with a median duration of response 
of 12 months for patients with CR and 8 months for patients with PR. The time to progression was 7 
months for all patients, 13 months for patients with CR and 9 months for patients with PR. The median 
survival for all patients was 16 months and has not yet been reached for responding patients (CR, PR 
or  MR)  while  the  survival  for  non-responding  patients  was  8  months.  The  expected  survival  from 
literature  data  is  6  to  9  months  while  the  expected  time  to  progression  (based  on  review  of  prior 
therapy data collected in study M34100-025) was 3 months.  
Analysis of the pharmacodynamic marker (inhibition of 20S proteasome activity) analysed on whole 
blood  samples  revealed  60%  mean  inhibition  at  1  hour  and  no  relationship  between  level  of  20S 
proteasome activity and response to treatment. 
As of follow-up information updated during the procedure, a total of 81 of the 202 patients had died, 
including 1 (5%) of 19 patients with CR, 10 (26%) of 39 patients with PR, 5 (25%) of 20 patients with 
MR,  10  (27%)  of  37  patients  with  NC  and  55  (63%)  of  87  non-responding  patients.  In  the  updated 
data,  the  median  survival  for  all  202  patients  enrolled  in  Study  M34100-025  increased  to  533  days 
(~17.5 months) from 478 days (~16 months) in the submission. For the subset of 58 patients with CR 
or PR, the median survival has still not been reached despite a median follow-up in this patient group 
of ~15 months. For the 87 non-responders, the median survival including the updated follow-up data 
was 219 days (~7 months).   
Response  rate  was  chosen  as  the  primary  endpoint  for  these  studies  on  the  assumption  that  it  is  an 
appropriate surrogate for benefit (survival) in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. 
In  order  to  verify  this  assumption,  the  Kaplan  Meier  survival  curves  based  on  the  updated  survival 
data  for  the  CR  and  PR  patients  were  compared  statistically  to  the  curves  for  the  non-responding 
patients; results are presented in Figure Q50B and Figure Q50C, respectively.  As shown, the survival 
curves for both patients with CR and with PR were significantly prolonged (p < 0.0001; log-rank test) 
as compared with non-responding patients. This has occurred in the absence of any prognostic factors 
that  would  clearly  suggest  a  baseline  difference  in  prognosis  or  pace  of  disease  between  the  two 
groups  of  patients  at  baseline  (such  as  type  of  multiple  myeloma,  type  of  prior  therapy,  time  from 
diagnosis, type or number of prior therapies, etc.). 
27/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  landmark  analysis  of  survival  was  provided  in  the  submission  in  the  clinical  study  report  for 
M34100-025.  The  results  of  the  landmark  analysis  have  also  been  revised  based  on  the  updated 
survival information from Study M34100-025. These results were consistent with those presented in 
the  submission  and  indicate  that  there  is  a  significant  association  between  responder  status  and 
ultimate  survival  (p=0.0055),  although  response  rate  cannot  be  regarded  as  a  surrogate  or  an 
independent predictor, but only as a prognostic factor 
Supportive studies 
Further  evidence  was  considered,  supporting  response  to  treatment  in  patients  with  relapsed  and 
refractory myeloma as reasonably likely predictor of survival. Since published evidence suggests that 
patients  experience  lesser  rates  of  response  and  shorter  durations  of  response  to  each  successive 
regimen of therapy, an unplanned analysis was performed comparing patients’ time to progression on 
bortezomib alone to the time to progression on their last prior therapy. The time to progression on last 
therapy for all patients was short at a median of 93 days, reflecting the refractory nature of this patient 
population. On-study analysis of the same patients revealed a median TTP of 213 days in response to 
treatment with bortezomib alone, reflecting a more than two fold increase in the time to progression.  
Further  findings  supporting  the  prognostic  value  of  response  rate  was  derived  by  the  literature.  An 
analysis of all published randomised studies in multiple myeloma conducted between 1966 and 2001 
in patients with relapsed myeloma was sponsored by the applicant. Ten randomised studies of salvage 
therapy for myeloma were identified, enrolling a total of 808 patients. Nine of the 10 published trials 
provided information regarding both response and median survival in the populations studied. Results 
from  linear  regression  analysis  demonstrate  an  R2  value  of  0.704,  indicating  a  strong  correlation 
between overall response and survival in these studies. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
A  novel  pharmacodynamic  assay  (inhibition  of  20S  proteasome  activity)  has  been  developed  as  a 
28/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
guide  to  dose-finding  studies.  However,  this  assay  has  some  limitations,  in  that  its  variability  was 
reportedly low in the presence of high level of inhibition and high when the level of inhibition is low. 
Based on two of the Phase I studies with dosing over 4 weeks, the twice weekly dosing for two weeks, 
followed by a 10-day rest period, appeared to be better tolerated than that with dosing over 4 weeks   
Phase  III  randomised  comparative  studies  are  generally  required  for  marketing  authorisation.  The 
minimum  requirement  is  generally  one  controlled  study  with  statistically  compelling  and  clinically 
relevant  results.  As  there  is  a  general  demand  for  replication  of  scientific  results,  it  is  usually 
recommended to plan for more than one study in the Phase III program.  
In  the  case  of  bortezomib,  no  adequate  and  well-controlled  clinical  trials  have  been  presented.  The 
demonstration of efficacy of bortezomib basically relies on anti-tumour activity results (response rate) 
from  the  M34100-025  single  arm  Phase  II  study,  in  which  2  cohorts  of  patients  (78  and  124)  were 
evaluated, for a total of 202 cases. Supportive data about the biological activity of bortezomib come 
from the other Phase II single arm trial (54 cases) testing two different doses of bortezomib (M34100-
024).  
The patient characteristics in the two Phase II trials were different. As compared with study M34100-
024, in study M34100-025 patients were heavily pretreated. More than 99% of patients had received 
prior treatment with steroids, 92% had received prior alkylating agent therapy, 81% had received prior 
anthracyclines  and  83%  had  received  prior  therapy  with  thalidomide;  64%  had  received  prior  high 
dose therapy including bone marrow transplant. These patients had multiple poor prognostic factors, 
an expected survival of 6 to 9 months. 
The data provided by the Applicant are of good quality. Selected sites have been audited, including the 
highest enrolling sites. These internal audits were performed for 8 of the 14 sites for study M34100-
025 and for 2 of the 10 sites for study M34100-024 and confirm the integrity of the data collected. The 
CPMP  also  requested  a  GCP  inspection.  As  acknowledged  by  the  Applicant,  a  number  of  GCP 
violations and critical findings were found. However, the CPMP concluded that the violations did not 
appear to invalidate  the  evaluation  of treatment response. The results can be considered reliable and 
robust enough to consider study M34100-025 as a pivotal trial for the MAA. 
Directive 75/318/EEC provides for the possibility of granting marketing authorisation, in exceptional 
circumstances,  among  others,  when  in  the  present  state  of  scientific  knowledge,  comprehensive 
information  on  the  efficacy  and  safety  under  normal  conditions  of  use  cannot  be  provided.  In  this 
situation,  should  an  Applicant  consider  that  Phase  II  studies  have  unequivocally  established 
outstanding benefits of the new agent for the target patients, this position must be fully justified by the 
Applicant  before  authorisation  can  be  granted.  In  addition,  in  such  circumstances,  a  further  trial 
programme must be agreed to, together with any other experimental studies judged necessary on the 
basis  of  observed  adverse  drug  reactions.  The  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  “Evaluation  of  anti-cancer 
medicinal  products  in  man”  (CPMP/EWP/205/95  rev.2,  19  September  2002),  presents  guidelines  on 
the  requirements  for  authorisation  for  documentation  for  applications  in  exceptional  circumstances 
where only non-comparator studies are available (Panel 1).  
29/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel  1.  CPMP  guidance  on  regulatory  requirements  for  anticancer  agents  within 
applications  under  exceptional  circumstances  (Evaluation  of  anti-cancer  medicinal 
products in man” CPMP/EWP/205/95 rev.2, 19 September 2002) 
Non-comparator studies may be acceptable in this subgroup (previously treated patients – no 
existing established regimen) only in the following circumstances: 
a) proven outstanding anticancer activity (relative to the given clinical situation and based on 
response  rate  and  duration  of  response)  in  patients  strictly  defined  as  resistant  to  relevant 
first-line therapies and 
b) the new agent has an acceptable and extensively documented toxicity profile and 
c) tumour response is a justified surrogate marker for clinical benefit and 
d)  the  overall  results  indicate  a  positive  risk/benefit  assessment  for  this  treatment  in  this 
clinically identifiable group of patients 
a)  As  for  the  required  outstanding  activity,  the  results  show  that  bortezomib  given  monotherapy 
induced  a  complete  remission  rate  up  to  10%  and  an  overall  response  rate  up  to  about  30%  in  a 
population of relapsed and refractory patients. The inclusion of a "minimal response" (MR) as part of 
the  responder  definition  in  the  primary  efficacy  variable  is  debatable.  However,  CR+PR  and  CR 
according to three sets of criteria were also assessed. The contribution of MR in the ORR was minor. 
The CR according to “complete Blade” criteria was only 4% (100% reduction in serum and urine M-
protein  by  both  electrophoresis  and  immunofixation),  whereas  the  SWOG  CR  criteria  (at  least  75% 
reduction  in  paraprotein  levels  confirmed  at  6  week  interval  along  with  stable  bone  disease  and 
normocalcemia),  gave  an  encouraging  18%  CR  rate.  An  independent  evaluation  by  the  US  FDA 
identified  188  eligible  cases  in  study  M34100-025  and  only  5  (Blade  IF-)  CR,  which  represents  a 
proportion of CR (2.7%, 95% CI: 1-6%) lower than claimed. This figure could even have been lower 
since  a  systematic  protocol  violation  might  have  lead  to  overestimate  the  proportion  of  patients 
experiencing CR. Indeed, clinical investigators did not always consider one of the criteria required by 
the protocol to establish CR (the x-ray confirmation of a stable bone disease (no increase in the size or 
number of lytic lesions)). However, these violations do not seem to have lead to overestimation of the 
reported  CR  rate,  as  it  was  shown  that  the  response  rate  was  similar  in  patients  who  underwent  per 
protocol  X-rays  compared  to  overall  population.  Secondary  endpoints  evaluating  patients’  clinical 
benefit  as  quality  of  life,  incidence  of  bone  fractures,  evolution  of  anaemia,  etc  give  no  reliable 
information due to the uncontrolled and open setting they are drawn from. A total of 74 patients with a 
sub optimal response to bortezomib went on to combination therapy (dexamethasone 40mg added to 
each dose of bortezomib): 18 (24%) of these patients experienced an improved response. Thus, it can 
be concluded that outstanding anticancer activity has been shown.   
b) the toxicity profile seems to be acceptable as documented in the Safety section below. 
c)  tumour  response  cannot  be  regarded  as  a  surrogate  marker  for  clinical  benefit;  however  the 
Applicant has provided evidence that clinical response has a prognostic value with respect to clinical 
outcome in MM patients. 
d) the population enrolled in the pivotal trial can hardly be considered homogeneous according to the 
entry  criteria.  Though  heavily  treated,  patients  enrolled  in  study  M34100-025  were  not  necessarily 
refractory to multiple treatments. The mean number of prior regimens administered was 6 with a range 
of 2 to 15. Among all 202 patients, 98% had received at least 2 of 4 types of chemotherapeutic agents, 
92%  had  received  3  of  these  4  agents,  and  66%  had  received  all  4  chemotherapeutics.  These  data 
indicate that in reality randomisation to alternative active comparator would have been possible, since 
several  patients  had  not  shown  to  be  refractory  to  all  alternative  treatments  at  the  time  they  were 
enrolled  in  the  study.  However,  approximately  2/3  of  the  patient  population  may  be  considered 
homogeneous,  at  least  with  regard  to  prior  therapies  received.  An  independent  expert  evaluation 
produced similar results to those provided by the Applicant in its application: the majority of the 19 
patients  (89.4%)  who  achieved  CR  were  judged  refractory  to  their  last  treatment.  In  addition,  a 
sensitivity  analysis  (response  according  to  types  of  previous  treatment  and  number  of  previous 
treatments)  suggests  that  the  overall  study  population  is  homogeneous  with  respect  to  the  apparent 
clinical  outcome  analyses,  in  that  the  percentage  of  responders  to  bortezomib  (CR/PR)  was  similar 
regardless  of  study  cohort  or  the  number  or  types  of  treatments  the  patients  had  received  prior  to 
entering the study.  
In conclusion.  The results are encouraging. However,  results  from comparative trials are required in 
30/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
order  to  better  understand  the  association  between  response  and  duration  of  survival  and  the  real 
clinical benefit of bortezomib. 
Clinical safety 
Safety  data  derive  from  three  Phase I  studies comprising 123 patients with advanced haematological 
and  solid  tumours  and  from  two  Phase  II  studies  (M34100-024  and  M34100-025)  overall  enrolling 
256  patients  with  myeloma.  Table  4  summarises  exposure  to  bortezomib  by  dose  and  over  all  256 
multiple myeloma patients  treated in studies M34100-024 and M34100-025. The mean total dose of 
bortezomib  administered  across  all  256 patients  was  43.6mg,  with  a  range  of  2.1  to  86.6mg;  mean 
duration  of  treatment  was  112.2 days  (~4 months),  with  a  range  of  1  to  278 days  (~9 months).  The 
mean total number of bortezomib doses received was 19.9, with a range of 1 to 32 doses.   
Table -4 
Patients Treated; N=256) 
Total Exposure to bortezomib  in Studies M34100-024 and M34100-025 (All 
Parameter: 
Bortezomib Dose (mg/m2) 
Mean ± SD 
Median 
Minimum, Maximum 
Bortezomib Dose (mg) 
Mean ± SD 
Median 
Minimum, Maximum 
Duration of bortezomib Treatment (days)a 
Mean ± SD 
Median 
Minimum, Maximum 
Number of bortezomib Doses 
Mean ± SD 
Median 
Minimum, Maximum 
a  Duration from first to last dose. 
Bortezomib Dose 
1.0 mg/m2 
(n = 28) 
26.7 ± 9.54 
30.5 
1.0, 41.6 
1.3 mg/m2 
(n = 228) 
Total 
(n = 256) 
23.3 ± 12.61 
24.7 
1.3, 43.5 
23.7 ± 12.34 
26.0 
1.0, 43.5 
48.4 ± 17.46 
53.9 
2.1, 73.0 
43.0 ± 23.52 
43.7 
2.2, 86.6 
43.6 ± 22.97 
45.8 
2.1, 86.6 
142.6 ± 51.00 
158.0 
1.0, 228.0 
108.5 ± 61.47 
116.0 
1.0, 278.0 
112.2 ± 61.26 
130.5 
1.0, 278.0 
26.5 ± 9.07 
31.0 
1.0, 32.0 
19.1 ± 10.29 
20.0 
1.0, 32.0 
19.9 ± 10.40 
22.0 
1.0, 32.0 
The actual mean total bortezomib dose administered across all 256 patients was (cid:31)77.6% of expected 
dose  in  each  treatment  cycle.  The  maximum  mean  total  bortezomib  dose  within  a  cycle  of  8.7mg, 
which was ~91% of the total mean bortezomib dose expected to be administered, was administered in 
Cycle 1. The mean total bortezomib dose administered decreased sequentially from Cycle 1 to Cycles 
7 and 8; the minimum mean total bortezomib dose of 7.2mg, which was ~78% of the mean total dose 
expected to be administered, was administered in both Cycle 7 and Cycle 8.  
There  were  no  apparent  differences  in  exposure  by  patient  subgroups  for  gender,  race  or  myeloma 
type. Exposure to bortezomib, including number of doses, total dose, and duration of treatment did not 
appear to decrease with increasing age. While the maximum number of treatment cycles in the Phase 
II  studies  was  8,  patients  who  achieved  benefit  and  entered  in  the  extension  study  MS34100-029 
received additional cycles of therapy (45 patients). 
Adverse events 
Commonly Reported Adverse Events in the Phase I Studies 
All  (100%)  123 patients  in  the  Phase  I  studies  experienced  at  least  one treatment-emergent  adverse 
event. An apparent dose-relationship was noted with regard to the incidence of several gastrointestinal 
symptoms, including nausea, vomiting, and constipation. Although an apparent dose-relationship was 
not  necessarily  seen  across  all  three dose  groups,  the  incidence  of  fatigue,  diarrhoea,  headache, 
arthralgia,  weakness,  catheter-related complications,  and abdominal distention was notably higher in 
the  highest  dose  group,  >1.3mg/m2,  than  in  the  2  lower  dose  groups.  A  similar  incidence  of  these 
events was seen in the <0.7mg/m2 and 0.7 to 1.3mg/m2 groups. 
31/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commonly Reported Adverse Events in the Phase II Studies 
Two hundred and fifty six (256) patients received bortezomib for the treatment of multiple myeloma, 
either  as  a  single  agent,  or  in  combination  with  dexamethasone.  Of  these,  97%  of  patients  (n=248) 
experienced  an  adverse  drug  reaction    (ADR)  to  bortezomib.  ADRs  leading  to  discontinuation  were 
reported in 17% (n=44) of patients.  
The  most  commonly  reported  events  were  nausea  (62%),  fatigue  (54%),  diarrhoea  NOS  (48%), 
constipation  (41%),  thrombocytopenia  (41%),  pyrexia  (36%),  vomiting  (34%),  and  anorexia  (30%).  
Peripheral  neuropathy,  including  reports  of  peripheral  neuropathy  NOS,  peripheral  sensory 
neuropathy,  and peripheral neuropathy aggravated, was reported in 35% of patients. Gastrointestinal 
events  and  peripheral  neuropathy  showed  an  apparent trend towards increasing incidence  with  dose. 
Sixty-eight  percent  (68%)  of  patients  experienced  at  least  one  episode  of  Grade 3  toxicity,  the  most 
common  being  thrombocytopenia  (27%),  neutropenia  (12%),  and  fatigue  and  peripheral  neuropathy 
NOS  (11%  each).  Thirteen  percent  (13%)  of  patients  experienced  at  least  one  episode  of  Grade  4 
toxicity, the most common being thrombocytopenia (3%) and neutropenia (2%). 
Comparison of adverse event incidence rates across the two dose groups is made difficult by the small 
number  of  patients  in  the  1.0mg/m2  dose  group,  relative  to  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  group.  However, 
gastrointestinal  events  (including  reports  of  nausea,  diarrhoea,  and  vomiting),  associated  events  of 
anorexia  and  dehydration  and  peripheral  neuropathy  (including  sensory  neuropathy  and  neuropathy 
aggravated)  appeared  to  occur  more  frequently  in  patients  at  the  1.3mg/m2  dose  of  bortezomib 
compared with the 1.0mg/m2 dose. 
Table  5  presents  the  most  commonly  reported  events  over  all  256  patients  and  includes  those 
commonly reported events that were Grade 3 or Grade 4 in severity. All 256 patients experienced at 
least one adverse event during the studies; in 68% of patients at least one event was reported by the 
investigator to be Grade 3 in severity and in 13% at least one Grade 4 event was reported.  The most 
commonly reported Grade 3 events were thrombocytopenia (27%), neutropenia (12%) and fatigue and 
peripheral  neuropathy  NOS  (11%  each).  The  most  commonly  reported  Grade  4  events  were 
thrombocytopenia  (3%)  and  neutropenia  (2%);  all  other  Grade  4  events  were  reported  in  <1%  of 
patients. 
32/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table –5 Most Commonly Reported (≥10% Overall) Adverse Events in Studies M34100-024 and 
M34100-025 Overall and by Intensity (All Patients Treated; N=256) 
All Patients (N = 256) [n (%)] 
MedDRA Preferred Term 
Patients with at least 1 adverse event 
  Nausea 
  Fatigue 
  Diarrhoea NOS 
  Constipation 
  Thrombocytopenia 
  Pyrexia 
  Vomiting NOS 
  Anorexia 
  Anaemia NOS 
  Arthralgia 
  Insomnia 
  Peripheral neuropathy NOS 
  Headache NOS 
  Pain in limb 
  Dyspnoea NOS 
  Neutropenia 
  Dizziness (excl vertigo) 
  Rash NOS 
  Weakness 
  Upper respiratory tract infection NOS 
  Cough 
  Dehydration 
  Bone pain 
  Back pain 
  Anxiety NEC 
  Muscle cramps 
  Myalgia 
  Appetite decreased NOS 
  Dyspepsia 
  Abdominal pain NOS 
  Dysgeusia 
  Rigors 
  Hypoaesthesia 
  Oedema peripheral 
  Herpes zoster 
  Paraesthesia 
  Oedema lower limb 
  Pruritus NOS 
  Depression NOS 
  Malaise 
  Vision blurred 
  Pain NOS 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
All Events 
256 (100) 
158 (62) 
137 (54) 
123 (48) 
106 (41) 
105 (41) 
91 (36) 
86 (34) 
77 (30) 
74 (29) 
73 (29) 
73 (29) 
73 (29) 
71 (28) 
66 (26) 
57 (22) 
55 (21) 
54 (21) 
53 (21) 
51 (20) 
50 (20) 
44 (17) 
42 (16) 
40 (16) 
38 (15) 
36 (14) 
35 (14) 
34 (13) 
32 (13) 
32 (13) 
31 (12) 
31 (12) 
31 (12) 
30 (12) 
30 (12) 
29 (11) 
29 (11) 
28 (11) 
28 (11) 
27 (11) 
27 (11) 
27 (11) 
26 (10) 
Grade 3 Events  Grade 4 Events 
174 (68) 
13 (5) 
28 (11) 
16 (6) 
5 (2) 
68 (27) 
10 (4) 
16 (6) 
5 (2) 
21 (8) 
13 (5) 
4 (2) 
27 (11) 
8 (3) 
19 (7) 
9 (4) 
31 (12) 
4 (2) 
1 (<1) 
15 (6) 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
15 (6) 
5 (2) 
10 (4) 
1 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
6 (2) 
1 (<1) 
0 
5 (2) 
1 (<1) 
3 (1) 
1 (<1) 
0 
2 (<1) 
4 (2) 
2 (<1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
3 (1) 
33 (13) 
0 
0 
2 (<1) 
0 
7 (3) 
0 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
6 (2) 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Overall, approximately one-third of patients (45 of 123; 37%) experienced at least one serious adverse 
event in the Phase I studies. The most common serious adverse events reported across all 123 patients 
included pyrexia (6 patients; 5%), diarrhoea and dyspnea (5 patients; 4%), and abdominal pain, back 
pain,  and  hypotension  NOS  (3 patients;  2%).  All  other  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  for  2 
patients  or  fewer.  19  (15%)  of  123 patients  experienced  at  least  one  serious  adverse  event  that  was 
considered by the investigator to be study drug-related. An apparent dose-relationship was seen with 
regard to the incidence of study drug-related serious adverse events, with 0%, 16% (8 of 51 patients), 
and 26% (11 of 43 patients) in the <0.7mg/m2, 0.7 to 1.3mg/m2, and >1.3mg/m2 groups, respectively, 
experiencing at least one study drug-related serious adverse event. The most commonly reported study 
33/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
drug-related serious adverse event was diarrhoea (5 patients; 4%). All other study drug-related serious 
adverse events were reported for 2 patients or fewer. 
The  most  commonly  reported  serious  adverse  events  in  the  Phase  II  studies  included  pyrexia, 
pneumonia,  diarrhoea,  vomiting,  dehydration,  and  nausea.  Patients  who  experienced  a  CR  or  PR  to 
treatment  were  less  likely  to  experience  serious  adverse  events  (32%)  compared  with  patients  who 
achieved a minimal response (MR) or had  no change in disease status (53%) and with patients with 
progressive disease or who were not evaluable for response (58%).   
Overall,  approximately  half  (48%)  of  patients  experienced  at  least  one serious  adverse  event  in  the 
Phase  II  studies.  Not  unexpectedly,  serious  adverse  events  were  most  commonly  reported  in  the 
infections and infestations SOC, with 13% of patients experiencing at least one serious adverse event 
within  this  SOC.    Commonly  reported  serious  adverse  events  within  this  SOC  included  pneumonia 
NOS  (7%)  and  sepsis  NOS  (2%).  Other  MedDRA  SOCs  in  which  serious  adverse  events  were 
commonly  reported 
included  general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions  (13%), 
gastrointestinal  disorders  (12%),  and  nervous  system  disorders  (9%).  Overall,  the  most  commonly 
reported serious adverse events, other than pneumonia NOS, included pyrexia (7%), diarrhoea (5%), 
vomiting and dehydration (5% each), and nausea (4%). 
Forty-four  percent  (44%)  of  patients  experienced  at  least  one  serious  adverse  event  that  met  the 
serious  criteria  because  hospitalisation  was  required  or  prolonged.  Similarly  to  the  incidences  of 
serious  adverse  events  overall,  the  most  commonly  reported  serious  adverse  events  requiring  or 
prolonging  in-patient  hospitalisation  were  pyrexia  (7%),  pneumonia  NOS  (7%),  vomiting,  and 
diarrhoea (5%), and nausea (4%).   
Of the 18 patients who had pyrexia reported as a serious adverse event, pyrexia occurred concurrently 
with another event that met the serious criteria for 12 patients. Pyrexia occurred concurrently with a 
serious infection, either pneumonia or URI, for two of these patients. 
Of  the  17  patients  who  had  pneumonia  NOS  reported  as  a  serious  adverse  event,  pneumonia  was 
assessed as study drug-related for only two patients, both of whom received bortezomib 1.3mg/m2.   
Patients  who  experienced  a  CR  or  PR  to  treatment  were  less  likely  to  experience  serious  adverse 
events (32%) compared with patients who achieved an MR or had no change in disease status (53%) 
and to patients with progressive disease or who were not evaluable for response (58%). 
The estimated probability of onset of a serious adverse event among all bortezomib-treated showed an 
approximately  linear,  gradual  rise  within  the  first  ~32mg/m2  administered,  corresponding  to 
approximately  6  treatment  cycles,  and  levelled  off  thereafter.  The  probability  of  the  first  onset  of  a 
serious  adverse  event  increases  from  approximately  50%  to  approximately  60%  in  an  additional 
increase in cumulative dose from 27mg/m2 to 40mg/m2 (approximately 8 treatment cycles). 
Deaths 
In Phase I studies, 3 (2%) of 123 patients died within 30 days after the last study drug dose. For all 
three patients,  the  cause  of  death  was  reported  as  progressive  disease  and  was  considered  by  the 
investigator  to  be  unrelated  to  study  drug.  In  the  Phase  II  studies,  a  total  of  12  (5%)  patients  died 
within 20 days after the last study drug dose or died of a cause considered to be study drug-related at 
any  time  after  the  last  study  drug  dose.  Most  deaths  were  due  to  disease  progression  unrelated  to 
treatment. Two deaths were considered study drug related. One patient received 4 doses and died of a 
cardiopulmonary arrest 9 days after the last dose of study drug. The other received 6 doses and died of 
respiratory failure secondary to diaphragmatic failure, considered possibly due to myopathy, 39 days 
after the last dose of study drug. 
All  the  12  (5%) patients  who  died  within  20 days  after  the  last  study  drug  dose  or  died  of  a  cause 
considered  to  be  study  drug-related  at  any  time  after  the  last  study  drug  dose  received  bortezomib 
1.3mg/m2.  Additionally,  62 patients  died  >20  days  after  the  last study drug dose; for  all 62 patients, 
the cause of death was considered to be unrelated to study drug. 
34/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Laboratory findings 
Episodic thrombocytopenia was seen, with a general progressive decrease in platelet count during the 
bortezomib  dosing  period  (Days  1  to  11)  and  a  return  to  baseline  in  platelet  count  during  the  rest 
period (Days 12 to 21) in each treatment cycle. An apparent trend towards an increase in hemoglobin 
and ANC (Absolute neutrophil count) across treatment cycles was noted. A trend towards decrease in 
ALC was noted across the 8 treatment cycles; however, no trend was noted by cycle. No significant 
effects were noted on renal or hepatic function. No apparent trend towards increase in glucose within 
or across treatment cycles was seen. No effects on electrolytes and calcium were noted. 
1.3  Safety in special populations 
The association between adverse events and intrinsic factors, including age, gender, race, body surface 
area,  renal  and  liver  function,  KPS,  proteasome  inhibition,  and  myeloma  subtype  were  explored. 
Whites  experienced  slightly  higher  incidence  of  fatigue,  diarrhoea,  pyrexia,  and  myalgia  than  non-
whites.  No  apparent  differences  in  Grade  3  or  4  events  or  adverse  events  leading  to  discontinuation 
were noted in patients with impaired renal function. The incidence of serious adverse events increased 
with  decreasing  renal  function  with  most  common  events  in  renal  and  urinary  disorders  SOC. 
Neutropenia increased in incidence with decreasing renal function. No differences were noted in the 
types  or  severity  of  events  in  patients  with  creatinine  clearance  <30mL/day  relative  to  the  general 
population  of  patients  treated.  Limited  data  were  available  in  patients  with  impairment  of  liver 
function. Higher rates of vomiting, blurred vision, anorexia, and weakness were seen among patients 
with  lower  KPS  scores  compared  with  those  with  higher  KPS  scores.  Furthermore,  higher  rates  of 
serious  adverse  events  were  noted  in  patients  with  lower  KPS  scores  compared  with  patients  with 
higher  KPS  scores.  Incidence  rates  of  Grade  3  or  4  adverse  events,  serious  adverse  events  and 
discontinuations due to adverse events were not higher among patients with higher levels of inhibition 
of  20S  proteasome  activity  compared  to  those  with  lower  levels  of  inhibition  of  20S  proteasome 
activity.  Patients  with  IgA  myeloma  appeared  more  likely  to  experience  serious  adverse  events  or 
adverse events leading to discontinuation than patients with IgG or other types of myeloma; however, 
review of specific serious adverse events and adverse events leading to discontinuation did not reveal 
any  specific  event  that  occurred  with  an  increased  incidence  among  patients  with  IgA  myeloma 
relative to other subgroups. 
Concerning  extrinisic  factors,  increased  rate  of  some  adverse  effects  with  prior  exposure  to 
thalidomide was reported (although this is not strictly a drug-drug interaction). 
1.4 
Immunological events 
One  patient  in  the  Phase  I  studies,  who  had  a  primary  diagnosis  of  multiple  myeloma  and  received 
bortezomib 1.04mg/m2, experienced an immunocomplex-mediated hypersensitivity reaction, described 
by  the  investigator  as  a  serum  sickness  reaction,  concurrent  with  maculopapular  rash  and  dyspnoea 
after  receiving  14 bortezomib  doses.  Study  drug  was  discontinued  because  of  these  events.  Serum 
sickness/hypersensitivity  reaction  and  maculopapular  rash  each  resolved  within  one  week  after 
treatment with prednisone. These events were assessed as Grade 3 in intensity and study drug related.  
These events also were considered by the investigator to be medically significant and therefore were 
reported as serious adverse events. No other immune-mediated reactions were reported in the Phase I 
studies. However, two additional cases of potential immunocomplex-mediated reactions were reported 
in the overall safety database (c.f. Discussion of clinical safety). 
1.5  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No  formal  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  conducted.  The  incidence  of  Grade  3  or  4  adverse 
events,  serious  adverse  events,  and  adverse  events  leading  to  discontinuation  were  evaluated 
comparing  patients  who  did  and  did  not  take  the  following  classes  of  drugs:  drugs  affecting 
mineralization,  growth  factors,  anti-hypertensives,  narcotics,  corticosteroids,  anti-diabetic  agents, 
substrates  and  inhibitors  of  both  2D6  and  3A4.  Slight  differences  were  noted  in  the  rates  of  serious 
events  for  those  using  anti-hypertensives,  anti-diabetic  agents,  and  narcotics.  During  clinical  trials, 
hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia were reported in diabetic patients receiving oral hypoglycemics.  No 
unique safety issues account for these differences, and interpretation of the data may be confounded 
by the indication for which the concomitant medication was used. A higher rate of discontinuation in 
35/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients taking corticosteroids may reflect progression of disease in these patients.  
1.6 
 Discontinuation due to AES 
Adverse Events Leading to Bortezomib Discontinuation in the Phase I Studies 
Overall, 26 (21%) of 123 patients discontinued bortezomib because of an adverse event/toxicity in the 
Phase I studies. An apparent dose-relationship was seen with regard to the incidence of adverse events 
leading  to  bortezomib  discontinuation,  with  7%  (2  of  29 patients),  16%  (8  of  51 patients),  and  37% 
(16 of 43 patients) of patients in the <0.7mg/m2, 0.7 to 1.3mg/m2, and >1.3mg/m2 groups, respectively, 
discontinuing bortezomib because of an adverse event. Overall, the most commonly reported adverse 
events leading to bortezomib discontinuation were fatigue (4 patients; 3%) and dyspnoea (3 patients; 
2%). All other adverse events leading to bortezomib discontinuation were reported for two patients or 
fewer. 
At least one adverse event leading to bortezomib discontinuation was considered by the investigator to 
be study drug-related for 15 (12%) of 123 patients; 0% (0 of 29 patients), 8% (4 of 51 patients), and 
26% (11 of 43 patients) in the <0.7mg/m2, 0.7 to 1.3mg/m2, and >1.3mg/m2 groups, respectively. All 
study drug-related adverse events leading to bortezomib discontinuation were reported for two patients 
or fewer. 
Adverse Events Leading to Bortezomib Discontinuation in the Phase II Studies 
Overall, 28% of patients discontinued bortezomib because of an adverse event. Adverse events leading 
to  bortezomib  discontinuation  most  commonly  reported  included  nervous  system  disorders  (8%), 
general disorders and administration site conditions (6%), and blood and lymphatic system disorders 
(5%).  The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  leading  to  bortezomib  discontinuation  included 
peripheral  neuropathy  NOS  (5%),  thrombocytopenia  (4%),  disease  progression  (3%),  diarrhea  (2%), 
and fatigue (2%).  At least one adverse event leading to bortezomib discontinuation was considered by 
the  investigator  to  be  study  drug-related  for  17%  of patients.  Commonly  reported  adverse  events 
leading  to  bortezomib  discontinuation  that  were  considered  study  drug-related  included  peripheral 
neuropathy NOS and thrombocytopenia (each 4%). Of the 71 patients who discontinued bortezomib 
because of an adverse event, the majority (62 of 71 patients; 87%) had not experienced a response (CR 
or PR) to treatment.   
Updated clinical safety summary 
Over  2,000  patients  have  been  treated  with  bortezomib  in  Millennium-sponsored  trials,  in  trials 
conducted  by  the  National  Cancer  Institute,  in  investigator-sponsored  trials  and  with  commercially 
available medicinal product. The safety database for the Millennium-sponsored trials includes ~1000 
patients  who  have  received  treatment  for  multiple  myeloma,  solid  tumors,  and  other  hematologic 
malignancies. The Applicant has reviewed the safety data from more than 700 patients with multiple 
myeloma, including 256 patients who participated in two Phase II studies of bortezomib (M34100-024 
and  M34100-025)  (as  presented  in  the  CTD)  and  for  the  475  patients  who  are  participating  or  have 
participated  in  ongoing  clinical  studies  of  bortezomib  in  patients  with  multiple  myeloma  (Studies 
M34101-029,  M34101-039,  and  M34101-040).  In  addition,  safety  data  from  over  200  patients  who 
have  received  bortezomib  in  clinical  studies  sponsored  by  Millennium  in  indications  other  than 
multiple myeloma have been reviewed. The ability to detect rare events has therefore increased. 
Acute infusion-related life-threatening complications have not been observed and intensive monitoring 
is not required after the bolus injection.  
A  cumulative  dose  related  peripheral  sensory  neuropathy  occurs  and  is  more  prominent  in  patients 
with  a  baseline  condition.  Severe  myelosuppression  is  uncommon  compared  with  traditional 
chemotherapy  agents.  This  is  reflected  in  the  low  incidence  of  Grade  4  neutropenia  and 
thrombocytopenia  and  their  attendant  complications  of  bleeding  and  febrile  neutropenia  with  sepsis. 
The  absence  of  alopecia  and  mucositis  (despite  other  GI  side  effects)  also  distinguishes  this  novel 
cytotoxic agent. 
The adverse event profile emerging in the Phase III study to date appears consistent with that seen in 
the Phase II studies. Overall, the most commonly reported adverse events were nausea (31%), diarrhea 
NOS  (27%),  fatigue  (26%),  constipation  (16%),  and  headache  NOS  (15%).  Although  the  adverse 
36/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
event profile was similar to that seen in the Phase II studies, the incidence rates of commonly reported 
adverse events generally were lower in Study M34101-039 than in the Phase II studies, which may be 
reflective of the less advanced disease stage among patients in this study. 
The  Applicant  has  identified  potentially  concerning  adverse  events  that  may  be  associated  with 
bortezomib treatment and that have occurred at low incidences in the clinical program and continues to 
closely  monitor  new  occurrences  of  such  events.  Such  events  include  serious  bleeding  events, 
orthostatic hypotension, seizure activity, mental status changes/confusion and other serious psychiatric 
disorders,  immune-mediated  reactions  and  other  systemic  allergic  reactions,  tumour  lysis  syndrome, 
pulmonary hypertension, cardiac/cardiopulmonary arrest, pancreatitis, amyloidosis, and liver function 
test  abnormalities.  The  incidence  of  such  events  was  generally  more  common  among  patients  with 
advanced disease participating in Study M34101-040 than in those with less advanced disease. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Peripheral neuropathy is clearly among the most  important undesirable effects of  bortezomib and of 
several  other  treatments  multiple  myeloma  patients  may  be  prescribed.  In  the  Phase  II  main  study, 
approximately  one  third  (34%)  of  patients  experienced  treatment-emergent  peripheral  sensory 
neuropathy.  The  incidence  of  Grade  3  peripheral  neuropathy  was  12%.  It  appears  that  patients  with 
pre-existing  peripheral  neuropathy  or  symptoms  of  peripheral  neuropathy  (80%  in  this  study)  are 
likely  to  experience  worsening  of  these  symptoms  during  treatment  with  bortezomib.  Reversibility 
was reported in 15% of patients. However, the data on the reversibility are limited and at short-term. 
In the Phase II studies, no cases classified as motor neuropathy were reported, but this possibility has 
not been excluded by systematic studies. The possible development of autonomic neuropathy, which 
may  responsible  for  the  observed  cases  of  postural/orthostatic  hypotension  and  syncope,  should  be 
closely monitored. 
Very  common  Grade  3  toxicity  included  thrombocytopenia and neutropenia. Thrombocytopenia  and 
neutropenia were also the most common Grade 4 adverse events. The onset of adverse events in the 
course  of  treatment  was  variable.  Typically,  gastrointestinal  adverse  events and fatigue had  an  early 
onset  during  the  first  treatment  cycles  and  persisted  for  several  cycles.  Thrombocytopenia  was 
typically episodic, with progressive decrease in platelet counts during the treatment cycle, and return 
to  baseline  during  the  rest  period.  Serious  haemorrhagic  complications  were  reported  in  the  current 
database. They are an obvious, but to a large extent preventable and manageable risk.  Neutropenia of 
any grade was common, but febrile neutropenia was reported in <1% of patients. Importantly, the data 
do not suggest cumulative bone marrow toxicity. 
The  safety  update  provided  by  the  Applicant  in  its  Response  document  identifies  a  number  of 
potentially concerning adverse events reported during the clinical development that may be associated 
with  bortezomib.  These  include  serious  bleeding  events,  orthostatic  hypotension,  seizures,  mental 
status changes/confusion and other serious psychiatric disorders, immune-mediated reactions and other 
systemic allergic reactions, tumour lysis syndrome, pulmonary hypertension, cardiac/cardiopulmonary 
arrest,  pancreatitis,  amyloidosis,  and  liver  function  test  abnormalities.  New  concerns  not  reported  in 
the original MAA submission are cases of hepatitis and seizures. These undesirable effects will remain 
under close surveillance. A warning has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC about the possibility 
of developing moderate to severe thrombocytopenia and bleeding and the suggestion that patients with 
risk factors for bleeding should be monitored carefully and prophylactic platelet transfusions should be 
considered  in  thrombocytopenic  patients  with  high  risk  of  bleeding.  In  the  presence  of  severe 
thrombocytopenia  (<50,000/µL)  and  any  major  risk  factors  for  bleeding,  a  careful  evaluation  of  the 
risk/benefit ratio of continued therapy with bortezomib should be performed, as proposed for patients 
who  have  experienced  life-threatening  bleeding  during  treatment  with  bortezomib.  Predisposing 
factors to haemorrhage include thrombocytopenia and, in some cases, the presence of extramedullary 
disease in sites such as the liver and CNS.  
No  clear  signal  for  CNS  toxicities  had  been  noted  at  the  time  off  the  MAA,  based  on  review  of 
possible  CNS  toxicities  in  the  Phase  II  studies.  However,  neurological  and  psychiatric  disorders 
continue  to  be  reported  and  must  be  closely  monitored  in  view  of  the  possibility  of  proteasome 
inhibition-related  neurodegenerative  disorders.  It  is  even  possible  that  these  reactions  may  have  a 
prolonged lag time before becoming clinically identifiable. Seizure activity has been reported. Seizure 
and  psychiatric  disorders  might  be  related  to  confounding  risk  factors  or  concomitant  diseases. 
37/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preliminary data from  study –039 suggested that cardiovascular reactions and seizures may be more 
frequent  in  the  bortezomib  group  compared  to  dexamethasone.  Patients  with  risk  factors  for  seizure 
activity e.g., hyponatremia, need to be monitored for this event.  
Although  not  commonly  reported  as  a  serious  adverse  event,  bortezomib  treatment  can  cause 
orthostatic/postural  hypotension.  These  events  are  observed  throughout  therapy  and  are  not  acute 
reactions  associated  with  bortezomib  administration.  Caution  should  be  used  when  treating  patients 
with  a  history  of  syncope,  patients  receiving  medications  known  to  be  associated  with  hypotension, 
and  patients  who  are  dehydrated.  The  management  of  orthostatic/postural  hypotension  may  include 
adjustment  of  antihypertensive  medications,  hydration,  or  administration  of  mineralocorticoids.  The 
Applicant  has  highlighted  the  rare  cases  of  tumour  lysis  syndrome,  since  they  illustrate  specific 
management principles in patients at risk. Bortezomib is cytotoxic and in patients with a high tumour 
burden, additional hydration, allopurinol, and close observation are advised. Asymptomatic increases 
in amylase has been reported rarely. The Applicant has recently reviewed the safety database and has 
found  no  evidence  of  any  signal  for  pancreatitis.  Careful  monitoring  of  blood  amylase  levels  will 
continue.  Hepatitis  (elevation  in  liver  enzymes)  has  been  recently  reported  in  a  small  number  of 
patients; the Applicant will continue to closely monitor for this event to evaluate potential risk factors 
or etiology. 
The Applicant argues that no clear relationship was found between the level of proteasome inhibition 
and  the  incidence of adverse  events. This is not  totally unexpected, since proteasome inhibition was 
measured one hour after bortezomib administration. An analysis of relationship between trough level 
of  inhibition  and  adverse  events  would  have  been  more  appropriate.  A  correlation  with  cumulative 
dose and many of the key adverse events was found. 
During the update period hypoglycaemia has been reported (1%) and has been included in the SPC. 
Two of the patients were diabetics who had a history of stable control prior to bortezomib and required 
dose reduction of antidiabetic medication. A cautionary sentence was added in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
regarding concomitant use with oral hypoglycaemics, and appropriate information in section 4.5. It is 
unclear if this is a pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic interaction. 
Bortezomib was not studied in children and in patients with impaired renal or hepatic function. Only 
few data are available from post-hoc analyses in patients with kidney or liver function impairment. No 
formal (pre-planned) PD and PK studies were undertaken on special populations, to evaluate the effect 
of  age,  gender,  race or organ function (such as liver or kidney). The  assessment of safety in special 
populations rests on such sub-group analyses, which are of limited value due to the small number of 
patients  studied.  This  lack  of  data  is  of  concern  especially  in  patients  with  renal  insufficiency,  a 
condition  frequently  present  in  MM  patients.  Available  data  are  only  based  on  10  patients  with 
creatinine  clearance  ≤30mL/min.  These  reportedly  had  the  same  type  or  severity  of  adverse  events 
reported  in  the  overall  study  population,  in  which  however  the  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events, 
cardiac disorders, and neutropenia increased with decreasing renal function. Due to lack of experience, 
severe renal impairment should be listed as a contraindication. The same applies to liver impairment, 
which is expected to have a major impact on pharmacokinetics. 
Bortezomib treatment may be associated with immunological events (e.g. immunocomplex-mediated 
reactions). Three individual reactions described may represent immunocomplex-mediated reactions. It 
should be noted that in 2 of the 3 patients,  treatment with bortezomib was continued after symptom 
resolution with no recurrence of these symptoms. One patient, who had received 1.04mg/m2 in a Phase 
I  study,  experienced  an  immunocomplex-mediated  hypersensitivity  reaction,  described  as  a  serum 
sickness  reaction  and  classified  as  severe,  with  maculopapular  rash  and  dyspnea,  which  resolved 
within  one  week  after  treatment  with  prednisone.  Another  patient  experienced  rapidly  progressive 
acute  renal  failure  with  proliferative  glomerulonephritis  (as  determined  by  renal  biopsy)  with  no 
obvious  precipitating  cause  after  completion  of  treatment  in  Cycle  3.  Renal  failure  resolved  after 
treatment  with  IV  methylprednisolone  followed  by  oral  prednisone.  The  third  patient  experienced 
diffuse  polyarthritis  concurrent  with  an  erythematous  rash  after  completion  of  Cycle  3.  The  patient 
received treatment with prednisone, and the event resolved. 
No drug-drug interactions studies were conducted.  
Reports  of  haemolytic  anaemia,  deafness/hypoacusis  and  inappropriate  ADH  secretion  have  been 
received, and the applicant has committed to discuss causality in the first periodic safety update report 
38/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(PSUR).  In  study  039,  the  DMC  noted  that  cardiovascular  reactions  and  seizures  may  be  more 
frequent  in  the  bortezomib  group  compared  with  dexamethasone.  The  applicant  has  included  these 
ADRs in the SPC.  
A Phase I/II trial of single-agent bortezomib patients with primary amyloidosis is planned. This trial 
should provide some exploratory insight into the efficacy and safety in this disease. Once the results 
from this trial will be available, the applicant will consider the feasibility of conducting a randomized 
controlled  trial  in  patients  with  amyloidosis  to  rule  out  the  possibility  that  secondary  to  proteasome 
inhibition  bortezomib  treatment  may  increase  the  risk  of  amyloidosis  and/or  may  have  an  adverse 
impact on its progression and organ manifestations.  
The Applicant has  committed  to carry out  a separate study to look into the possibility of autonomic 
neuropathy.  The  Applicant  has  committed  to  adopt  a  pharmacovigilance  plan  covering  the  major 
safety concerns identified by the CPMP, namely amyloidosis, cardiovascular, neurological, psychiatric 
and  immunological  reactions  and  tumour  lysis  syndrome.  The  Applicant  will  continue  to  undertake 
proactive pharmacovigilance and close monitoring of AEs of concern for bortezomib. 
In  summary,  the  applicant  has  shown  that  fatigue  and  gastrointestinal  side  effects  are  the  most 
common  undesirable  effects  but  do  not  require  premedication  in  all  patients.  The  most  troublesome 
side  effect  for  patients  is  a  cumulative  dose-related  peripheral  sensory  neuropathy,  which  is  more 
prominent in patients with baseline neuropathy. Early detection and appropriate dose reduction is the 
approach  to  management  of  this  side  effect.  Severe  myelosuppression  and  complications  of 
myelosuppression are uncommon compared with traditional chemotherapy agents. This is reflected in 
the low incidence of Grade 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia and the attendant febrile neutropenic 
infections and bleeding. Acute infusion-related life-threatening complications have not been observed 
and  intensive  monitoring  is  not  required  after  the  bolus  injection.  The  absence  of  alopecia  also 
distinguishes  this  novel  cytotoxic  agent.  Further  experience  is  accumulating  concerning  the  use  of 
bortezomib  in  combination  with  other  chemotherapy  agents,  radiation  therapy  and  biological  agents 
under ongoing clinical trials sponsored by Millennium and by the NCI. At this time, additive and/or 
synergistic toxicities have not been observed with the agents studied. 
5 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Benefit Risk 
The  overall  quality  of  both  the  drug  substance  bortezomib  and  the  drug  product  VELCADE  is 
sufficiently characterized.  
During  the  development  one  of  the  main  problems  was  related  to  the  purity  specifications  of    drug 
substance  and,  consequently  ,  drug  product.    Many  impurities,  including  chiral  ones,  arise  from  the 
synthetic  pathway  of  bortezomib,  which  involves  stereoisomeric  starting  materials.  Furthermore 
several degradation impurities have been reported as possible contaminants. 
A  thorough  discussion  has  taken  place  on  identification  and  quantification  of  impurities  in  the  drug 
substance as well as their origin and reflection on the specifications.  
The  initial  specifications  for  assay  and  related  substances  have  been  revised  during  the  registration 
procedure  and  lower  limits  have  been  introduced  according  to  batch  analysis  of  more  recently 
produced  batches. Moreover the applicant has made efforts to identify the related substances and to 
synthesise  them  independently.  Although  in  most  cases  the  applicant  succeeded  in  identifying  the 
related substances, impurities O and M not in all cases it has ben posscould not beible to obtained the 
impurities  in  sufficient    amount  and  suitable  purity  for  analytical  validation.  The  applicant  has 
committed to revaluate drug substance specifications for both assay and related substances once data 
from  the  first  ten  commercial  lots  will  be  available.  They  have  also  committed  to  improve  the 
separation method for impurities so as to re-evaluate the combined reporting of three impurities ( M, N 
and F ).   
39/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualification of impurities  was correctly done using batches prepared for toxicological studies. These 
batches  contained  the  same  levels  of  impurities  as  those  contained  in  commercial  lots.  The  purity 
specifications are therefore acceptable from the toxicological point of view. 
Presently the drug substance specifications include appearance, identity, assay, chiral purity, specific 
rotation,  related  substances,  residual  solvents,  heavy  metals,  endotoxins  and  bioburden  and  are 
assessed by either pharmacopeial methods or validated methods. They are acceptable. 
Finally the drug substance is very instable and has to be stored at –20°C -- 5°C protected from light. A 
retest period of 9 months only has been presently granted. 
Concerning  the  development  of  the  drug  product,  it  had  to  be  taken  into  account  that  bortezomib  is 
unstable  in  solution,  thermolabile,  photosensitive  and  sensitive  to  gamma  irradiation.  The  finished 
product required was a sterile, pyrogen free solution to be injected intravenously.  
The  problem  of  stability  encountered  with  the  liquid  formulations  used  in  clinical  trials  has  been 
overcome  by developing a lyophilised dosage form, in which mannitol is used as the only excipient 
acting as a bulking as well as a stabilizing agent. During lyophylisation the drug substance forms a 1:1 
mannitol boronic ester, which stabilises the boronic acid. During reconstitution of the lyophilised cake 
in saline solution and even during subsequent intravenous administration an equilibrium between the 
mannitol  ester  and  the  boronic  acid  (  bortezomib  )  is  established  which  results  into  the  complete 
hydrolyzation of the ester to the active substance bortezomib. 
The  sterilization  method  using  sterile  filtration  and  aseptic  processing  is  justified  (accordingly  the 
specific guidelines  CPMP/QWP/054/98) by the intended lyophilized dosage form. 
The  suitability  of  the  container  closure  system  has  been  demonstrated  by  stability  studies.  The 
compatibility of the product with the reconstitution solvent , normal saline, has been demonstrated in 
stability studies. 
Since the overall manufacturing process of the finished product is considered a non-standard process, 
full process validation data for three consecutive batches at production scale  have been requested  and   
provided. All acceptance criteria foreseen by the validation scheme were met and drug product 
manufacturing process is considered validated. A point was raised during the evaluation of the 
manufacturing process concerning the bioburden of the solution before sterile filtration that should 
comply with the limits posed by the EU guidelines on the manufacturing of finished product. The 
company has declared that the action limit for bioburden of bulk solution before aseptic filtration has 
been revised to 10 CFU’s/100 mL accordingly the EU guidelines.  
The finished product specifications include appearance, identification, assay, impurities, moisture, 
residual solvents, content uniformity, sterility, and bacterial endotoxins. Additional specifications for 
the reconstituted vial include: reconstitution time, colour/clarity, and particulate matter. Methods are 
validated when necessary. Presently the specifications are acceptable. However, with regard to assay 
and purity, it has to be reminded that the commitment to re-evaluate specifications for both assay and 
related substances, once data from the ten commercial lots will be available, also applies to the 
finished product. New stability studies have allowed a shelf life of 24 months to be granted. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Codering  the  proposed  clinical  indication,  the  pre-clinical  toxicological  profile  is  sufficiently 
characterised. Bortezomib was positive for clastogenic activity (structural chromosomal aberrations) in 
the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay using Chinese hamster ovary cells at concentrations as low 
as  3.125µg/ml,  which  was  the  lowest  concentration  evaluated.  Bortezomib  was  not  genotoxic  when 
tested in the in vitro mutagenicity assay (Ames assay) and in vivo micronucleus assay in mice. Positive 
genotoxicity  results  are  common  for  cytotoxic  agents,  and  could  be  considered  acceptable  in  the 
overall evaluation of the risk/benefit ratio for a product intended to treat multiple myeloma. 
Developmental toxicity studies in the rat and rabbit have shown embryo-fetal lethality at maternally 
toxic  dosages,  but  no  direct  embryo-foetal  toxicity  below  maternally  toxic  dosages.  Fertility  studies 
were not performed but evaluation of reproductive tissues has been performed in the general toxicity 
40/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studies.  In  the  6-month  rat  study,  degenerative  effects  in  both  the  testes  and  the  ovary  have  been 
observed. It is, therefore, likely that bortezomib could have a potential effect on either male or female 
fertility. Peri- and postnatal development studies were not conducted.  
In  multi-cycle  general  toxicity  studies  conducted  in  the  rat  and  monkey,  the  principal  target  organs 
included the gastrointestinal tract resulting in vomiting and/or diarrhea, hematopoietic and lymphatic 
tissues resulting in peripheral blood cytopenias and lymphoid tissue atrophy and hematopoietic bone 
marrow  hypocellularity,  peripheral  neuropathy  (observed  in  monkeys,  mice  and  dogs)  involving 
sensory nerve axons, and mild changes in the kidneys.  All these target organs have shown partial to 
full recovery following discontinuation of treatment. 
Based on animal studies, the penetration of bortezomib through the blood-brain barrier appears to be 
limited,  if  any  and  the  relevance  to  humans  is  unknown.  However,  the  neurological  dysfunctions 
reported  in  dogs  and  the  neurotoxicity  reported  in  humans  made  the  issue  about  the  potential 
penetration  of  bortezomib  in  the  nervous  system  of  some  concern.  The  applicant  has  provided 
additional  reassuring  information  on  the  penetration  of  bortezomib  into  the  CNS  but  some  concerns 
remain on this topic, which the applicant committed to carefully monitor in man. Studies are ongoing 
to  clarify  the  mechanism  responsible  for  the  peripheral  neuropathy  observed  in  monkeys,  mice  and 
dogs,  believed  to  be  due  to  a  dose-related  disruption  of  the  normal  homeostasis  of  some  of  the 
cytosolic proteins involved in axonal transport.  
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  bortezomib  was  evaluated  at  the  recommended  dose  in  an  open-label,  single-arm, 
multi-centre study of 202 patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, who had received at 
least 2 prior lines of treatment and who were progressing on their most recent treatment.  
Median age of the patients in this trial was 59 (range: 34 to 84 years), 21% had platelet counts <75 x 
109/l and 44% had haemoglobin <100g/l at study entry. 60% were diagnosed with IgG myeloma, 24% 
with  IgA  myeloma  and  14%  with  light  chain  myeloma.  15%  had  a  known  tumour  chromosome  13 
deletion. Median B2 microglobulin was 3.5mg/l. These patients received a median number of six lines 
of  prior  therapies  including  steroids,  alkylating  agents,  anthracyclines,  thalidomide  and  stem  cell 
transplants. 
Bortezomib induced a complete remission in 10% and an overall response in about 30% of relapsed 
and  refractory  MM  patients,  where  an  overall  response  to  treatment  of  greater  than  10%  and  any 
complete remission are unprecedented. Data are further supported by the consistency of results of the  
two independent cohorts of patients, each reviewed by an independent response committee. Results for 
response  rate,  TTP,  survival,  showed  consistent  benefit.  Although  these  results  are  clearly 
encouraging,  comparative  trials  are  required  in  order  to  better  understand  the  association  between 
response and duration of survival and the clinical benefit of bortezomib in the target population. 
The outstanding nature of the benefit claimed for bortezomib needs to be confirmed under two points 
of  view:  the  size  of  the  benefit  (the  proportion  of  patients  with  CR)  and  the  kind  of  patients  who 
benefit (how homogeneous was the study population).  
Concerning  the  size  of  the  benefit,  the  response  rates  reported  above  are  encouraging  and  can  be 
considered  outstanding  in  an  advanced  and  refractory  MM  population.  However,  an  independent 
evaluation by the FDA identified only 5 (Blade IF-) CR among 188 eligible cases, which represents a 
proportion of CR (2.7%, 95% CI: 1-6%) much lower than claimed.   
The lack of x-ray confirmation of a stable bone disease does not seem to have lead to overestimation 
of the reported CR rate as it was shown that the response rate was similar in patients who underwent 
per protocol X-rays compared to overall population 
As for the homogeneity issue, the overall study population enrolled in the pivotal trial can hardly be 
considered  homogeneous  with  regards  to  the  availability  or  unavailability  of  “last-line”  treatment 
options.  However,  approximately  2/3  of  the  patient  population  may  be  considered  homogeneous  at 
least  with  regard  to  prior  therapies  received  and  the  refractory  status.  In  the  subset  of  study  –025 
patients  who  had  received  prior  anthracyclines,  alkylating  agents  and  steroids,  and  who  were 
41/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
refractory to their last treatment and who had skeletal follow-up as per protocol (n=64), the applicant 
has convincingly shown that the CR+PR rate was outstanding. There were 9 patients with CR (14.0%) 
and 25 CR + PR (39.0%).  Moreover, sensitivity analyses showed that the percentage of CR/PR was 
similar  regardless  of  the  number  and  types  of  treatments  received  by  patients  prior  to  entering  the 
study. The mean number of prior regimens administered was 6 with a range of 2 to 15. The lack of 
standard  entry  criteria  yielded  heterogeneity,  which  indicates  that  in  reality  randomisation  to 
alternative  active  comparators  would  have  been  possible.  The  majority  of  patients  (91%)  were 
determined  to  be  refractory  to  their  previous  treatment  and  the  CR  +  PR  rate  in  this  subgroup  of 
patients was virtually identical to the intention-to-treat population.  
Safety 
Fatigue  and  gastrointestinal  effects  are  the  most  common  undesirable  events.  The  most  troublesome 
adverse  effect  for  patients  is  a  cumulative  dose-related  peripheral  neuropathy,  mainly  sensory  but 
possibly including autonomic neuropathy. SAE include: bleeding, orthostatic hypotension, psychiatric 
disorders,  immunocomplex-mediated  reactions  and  other  systemic  allergic  reactions,  tumour  lysis 
syndrome,  pulmonary  hypertension,  cardiac  arrest,  pancreatitis,  amyloidosis,  and  liver  function  test 
abnormalities.  Seizure  and  hepatitis  have  been  identified  more  recently,  along  with  potential 
interaction  with  oral  antidiabetic  medications.  A  recent  safety  update  on  981  patients  has  confirmed 
issues  like  neurotoxicity,  and  bleeding.  Thrombocytopenia  is  a  very  common  undesirable  effect  of 
bortezomib with potential important clinical sequelae. 
Acute,  infusion-related,  life-threatening  complications  have  not  been  observed  and  intensive 
monitoring  is  not  required  after  the  bolus  injection.  Severe  myelosuppression  and  complications  of 
myelosuppression  are  uncommon  compared  with  traditional  chemotherapy  agents.  The  absence  of 
alopecia also distinguishes this novel cytotoxic agent. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Depending  on  the  different  evaluation  criteria  adopted,  bortezomib  induced  a  complete  remission  in 
2.7-10% and an overall response in up to about 30% of relapsed and refractory MM patients, where an 
overall  response  to  treatment  of  greater  than  10%  and  any  complete  remission  are  unprecedented. 
Although  these  results  are  encouraging  and  are  considered  outstanding  in  advanced  and  refractory 
MM, randomised comparative trials are required in order to better understand the association between 
response and duration of survival and the clinical benefit of bortezomib in the target population. 
The  recently  terminated  Phase  III  study  testing  bortezomib  (1.3mg/m2)  versus  high  dose 
dexamethasone  in  patients  with  relapse  or  refractory  MM  will  provide  additional  information  about 
the  benefit  of  the  drug  under  evaluation  in  terms  of  tumour  response,  TTP  and  other  measures  of 
clinical  benefit  in  a  slightly  different    population  of  patients  with  less  advanced  MM  compared  to 
study  -025.  Following  the  interim  analysis  in  December  2003,  the  Data  Monitoring  Committee 
recommended the trial be stopped, since the efficacy analysis showed that the main endpoint (time to 
progression)  had  crossed  the  pre-defined  boundary  for  early  termination  and  was  highly  significant  
(P<0.001) to the advantage of bortezomib. The applicant has committed to provide a full report on the 
results of this study. 
The toxicity profile appears acceptable and within the usual range of other standard and experimental 
cytotoxic  therapies.  Further  experience  is  accumulating  concerning  the  use  of  bortezomib  in 
combination with other chemotherapy agents, radiation therapy and biological agents under ongoing 
clinical  trials.  So  far,  additive  and/or  synergistic  toxicities  have  not  been  observed  with  the  agents 
studied. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the 
benefit/risk ratio of bortezomib in the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received 
at  least  two  prior  therapies  and  have  demonstrated  disease  progression  on  the  last  therapy,  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation under exceptional 
circumstances. 
42/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
