EMA/178154/2020  
EMEA/H/C/000539 
Velcade (bortezomib) 
An overview of Velcade and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Velcade and what is it used for? 
Velcade is a cancer medicine that is generally used in combination with other medicines to treat 
multiple myeloma, a blood cancer, in: 
• 
• 
• 
adults whose disease is getting worse after at least one other treatment and who have already had 
blood stem-cell transplantation or cannot have it. In these patients, Velcade is used either on its 
own or with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or dexamethasone; 
previously untreated adults who cannot have high-dose chemotherapy with blood stem-cell 
transplantation. In these patients, Velcade is used in combination with melphalan and prednisone; 
previously untreated adults who are going to receive high-dose chemotherapy followed by a blood 
stem-cell transplantation. In these patients, Velcade is used in combination with dexamethasone, 
or with dexamethasone plus thalidomide. 
Velcade is also used to treat mantle cell lymphoma, another blood cancer. It is used in adults who have 
not received any treatment for their cancer and who cannot have blood stem-cell transplantation. In 
these patients Velcade is used with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone. 
Velcade contains the active substance bortezomib.  
How is Velcade used? 
Velcade can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should only be started under the 
supervision of a doctor who has experience in the use of cancer chemotherapy. Velcade is available as 
an injection containing 1 or 3.5 mg. 
Velcade is given by injection into a vein. Velcade 3.5 mg can also be given by injection under the skin 
in the thigh or the belly. Velcade must not be given in other way. It is given in treatment cycles of 3 to 
6 weeks depending on whether Velcade is given alone or in combination with other medicines. The 
dose depends on the patient’s height and weight. 
If the patient develops severe side effects, the doctor may reduce the dose, delay the treatment or 
stop it altogether. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Velcade, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Velcade work? 
The active substance in Velcade, bortezomib, is a proteasome inhibitor. It blocks the proteasome, 
which is a system in cells that breaks down proteins that are no longer needed. Blocking the 
proteasome system results in a build-up of unwanted proteins that causes the cells to die. Proteasome 
inhibitors have a bigger effect on cancer cells than on normal cells. 
What benefits of Velcade have been shown in studies? 
In multiple myeloma, 10 main studies, involving over 4,300 adults, found Velcade given alone or in 
combination with other medicines to be effective in several patient groups. The main measures of 
effectiveness were the number of patients whose disease responded to treatment and how long the 
patients lived without their disease getting worse.  
In mantle cell lymphoma, a main study involved 487 previously untreated adults who were not suitable 
for blood stem-cell transplantation. Patients treated with Velcade together with rituximab, 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone lived for 24.7 months without their disease getting 
worse compared with 14.4 months for patients treated with the same combination but using another 
medicine, vincristine, in place of Velcade. 
What are the risks associated with Velcade? 
The most common side effects with Velcade (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are nausea 
(feeling sick), diarrhoea, constipation, vomiting, tiredness, weakness, fever, thrombocytopenia (low 
blood platelet count which can lead to easy bruising and bleeding), anaemia (low red blood cell count), 
neutropenia (low levels of a type of white blood cell that fights infection), nerve damage in arms and 
legs, headache, paraesthesia (numbness and tingling), decreased appetite, difficulty breathing, rash, 
shingles, and muscle and bone pain. 
The most serious side effects include heart failure, tumour lysis syndrome (complications due to 
sudden breakdown of cancer cells), pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure in the arteries of the 
lungs), posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (a brain disorder), acute diffuse infiltrative 
pulmonary disease (a severe lung problem) and autonomic neuropathy (damage to nerves controlling 
organs such as the bladder, eyes, gut, heart and blood vessels). 
Velcade must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to bortezomib, boron or to any 
of the other ingredients. It must not be given to patients with acute diffuse infiltrative pulmonary 
disease or pericardial disease (disease of the sac around the heart). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Velcade, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Velcade authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Velcade’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
Velcade Velcade (bortezomib)  
EMA/178154/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Velcade? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Velcade have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Velcade are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Velcade are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Velcade 
Velcade received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 April 2004. 
Further information on Velcade can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/velcade.  
This overview was last updated in 04-2020. 
Velcade Velcade (bortezomib)  
EMA/178154/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
