19 November 2015 
EMA/747320/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms of 
the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: bortezomib 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000424/201504 
Period covered by the PSUR: 26 April 2014 - 25 April 2015  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for bortezomib, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Scientific conclusions and grounds for variation to the terms of the marketing authorisations  
The MAH conducted a cumulative review of all cases reporting preferred terms from the gastrointestinal 
obstruction Standardised MedDRA Query (SMQ) for bortezomib as part of a signal assessment for 
“intestinal obstruction”. Excluding ileus and oesophageal and gastric events, the search retrieved 34 
cases without confounding factors. Of these cases, 13 described a positive dechallenge and 1 described a 
positive rechallenged. The MAH concluded that intestinal obstruction with the frequency uncommon is 
associated with the use of bortezomib in patients with Multiple Myeloma. “Gastrointestinal obstruction (inc 
ileus)” is already included in the product information (PI) of Velcade. However the PRAC was of the view 
that the MedDRA PT reported as ADR under the high level term “gastrointestinal obstruction” providing 
more information on the localisation of the obstruction (small intestinal obstruction) should be specified 
as well in the SmPC. This was considered covered by “poor movement of the intestines (including 
blockage)” currently listed in the package leaflet, therefore no update of the PL was considered 
necessary. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information of medicinal products containing bortezomib were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for bortezomib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing bortezomib is favourable subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
 
 
 
 
