PART VI:  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for VELCADE (bortezomib) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  VELCADE.  The  RMP  details 
important  risks  of  VELCADE,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more  information 
will be obtained about VELCADE’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
VELCADE’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how VELCADE should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for VELCADE should be read in the context of all this information 
including  the  assessment  report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary,  all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
VELCADE’s RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used For 
VELCADE is authorized for treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma and mantle cell 
lymphoma (see SmPC for the full indications). It contains bortezomib as the active substance and 
it is given by intravenous or subcutaneous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of VELCADE’s benefits can be found in VELCADE’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/velcade 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of VELCADE, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about VELCADE’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analyzed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of  VELCADE  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  VELCADE.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None. 
None. 
None. 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Not applicable. 
II.C. 
Postauthorization Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
VELCADE. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
There are no studies required for VELCADE. 
 
 
