European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.:EMEA/348473/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Velmetia 
International Non-proprietary Name: sitagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000862 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
1.1 
1.2 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
3 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 7 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 9 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 15 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 40 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 41 
2/43
  
 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd. submitted on 30 April 2007 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Velmetia,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 3 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 21 September 2007. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended – 
relating to applications new fixed combination products. 
The application submitted is a complete dossier composed of administrative information, complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
Velmetia is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in patients 
inadequately controlled on metformin alone or those already being treated with the combination of 
sitagliptin and metformin. 
Velmetia is also indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e., triple combination therapy) as 
an adjunct to diet and exercise in patients inadequately controlled with any two of the three agents: 
metformin, sitagliptin, or a sulphonylurea. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 21 January 2005. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to pre-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries:  
Brazil 
Egypt 
Malaysia 
New Zealand 
United Arab Emirates   4 October 2006  
6 November 2006 
10 October 2006 
15 September 2006 
22 June 2006 
Colombia 
Korea 
Mexico  
Peru 
USA 
28 February 2007 
22 December 2006 
16 August 2006 
4 January 2007 
31 May 2006 
The product was licensed in the United States at the time of submission of the application.  
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
     Co-Rapporteur: 
Rapporteur: Pieter de Graeff 
Harald Enzmann 
3/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 30 April 2007. 
The procedure started on 23 May 2007.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 August 
2007. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 15 
August 2007.  
During  the  meeting  on  17-20  September  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 September 2007. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  19 
December 2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 5 February 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 18-21 February 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The  applicant  submitted  written  explanations  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on  17 
March 2008. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding 
Issues to all CHMP members on 11 April 2008. 
During the meeting on 21-24 April 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Velmetia on 24 April 2008.  
The  CHMP  opinions  were  forwarded,  in  all  official  languages  of  the  European  Union,  to  the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decisions on 16 July 2008. 
4/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) accounts for more than 90% of all diabetes.  This disorder afflicts an 
estimated  6%  of  the  adult  population  in  Western  society  and  over  2%  worldwide.    The  worldwide 
prevalence  of T2DM  is increasing  and  expected  to  grow  by  3%  per  annum,  reaching  a  total  of  220 
million  cases  by  2010.    Although  the  Diabetes  Control  and  Complications  Trial  (DCCT)  and  the 
United  Kingdom  Prospective  Diabetes  Study  (UKPDS)  have  shown  that  intensive  treatment  of 
hyperglycaemia  leads  to  a  lower  incidence  of  diabetes  complications  (e.g.,  retinopathy  and 
nephropathy),  many  patients  remain  inadequately  treated  using  diet/exercise  regimens  and  existing 
therapies.  Furthermore,  over  time,  there  is  a  progressive  loss  of  β-cell  function  that  has  been  best 
characterized in the UKPDS study, but has also been observed in other studies of patients with T2DM. 
This  gradual  loss  of  β-cell  function  underlies  the  progressive  deterioration  in  glycaemic  control  in 
T2DM and the corresponding need for more intensive therapies to treat patients with the disease.   
Currently available therapies are: 
•  Sulphonylureas (SU), which increase insulin secretion. Their main adverse effects are 
hypoglycaemia and weight gain. 
•  Metformin (Met), which increases intestinal glucose utilisation, decreases hepatic glucose 
production and increases insulin sensitivity. Metformin may also improve dyslipidaemia. 
Gastrointestinal undesirable effects and lactic acidosis represent the main adverse effects. 
•  Thiazolidinediones (TZDs), such as pioglitazone, which increase insulin sensitivity and 
enhance glucose uptake in skeletal muscle. Undesirable effects are fluid retention or weight 
gain, possibility of increased fracture rate in female patients and possibly increased risk of 
heart failure. 
•  Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, which have shown limited efficacy but with no risk of 
• 
hypoglycaemia. Gastrointestinal undesirable effects limit compliance. 
Insulin, which is used in type 2 diabetes when oral agents have failed to achieve glycaemic 
control or in case of complications. Insulin may cause hypoglycaemia and weight gain. 
•  Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP-4 inhibitors), such as sitagliptin, which enhance active 
incretin levels leading to increases in insulin release and decreases in glucagon levels in a 
glucose-dependant manner. Common adverse events are upper respiratory tract infection, 
nasopharyngitis, and headache.  
A  fixed  dose  combination  (FDC)  tablet  (Velmetia  (MK-0431A))  containing  2  antihyperglycaemic 
agents  (AHAs)—one  novel  (sitagliptin  phosphate  [MK-0431])  and  one  commonly  used  (metformin 
hydrochloride)––with complementary mechanisms of action for lowering glucose has the potential to 
provide a new treatment option for patients with T2DM. 
The  application  concerns  a  centralised  procedure  in  accordance  with  article  10b  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC as amended – relating to applications new fixed combination products.   
Relevant Guidelines for this product are: 
•  Note  for  guidance  on  clinical  investigation  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of  diabetes 
mellitus (CPMP/EWP/1080/00). 
•  Note for guidance on fixed combination medicinal products (CPMP/EWP/240/95). 
The claimed indication was:  
For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
Velmetia is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in patients 
inadequately controlled on metformin alone or those already being treated with the combination of 
sitagliptin and metformin. 
Velmetia is also indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e., triple combination therapy) as 
5/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an adjunct to diet and exercise in patients inadequately controlled with any two of the three agents: 
metformin, sitagliptin, or a sulphonylurea. 
The approved indications are: 
For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
Velmetia  is  indicated  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  patients 
inadequately  controlled  on  their  maximal  tolerated  dose  of  metformin  alone  or  those  already  being 
treated with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin. 
Velmetia is also indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e., triple combination therapy) as an 
adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  on  their  maximal  tolerated  dose  of 
metformin and a sulphonylurea. 
The proposed dose recommendations are: 
For patients not adequately controlled on metformin alone, the usual starting dose of Velmetia should 
provide sitagliptin dosed as 50 mg twice daily (100 mg total daily dose) plus the dose of metformin 
already being taken. 
For patients switching from co-administration of sitagliptin and metformin, Velmetia may be initiated 
at the dose of sitagliptin and metformin already being taken. 
For patients inadequately controlled on dual combination therapy with the maximal tolerated dose of 
metformin and a sulphonylurea the dose of Velmetia should provide sitagliptin dosed as 50 mg twice 
daily (100 mg total daily dose) and a dose of metformin similar to the dose already being taken. When 
Velmetia  is  used  in  combination  with  a  sulphonylurea  a  lower  dose  of  the  sulphonylurea  may  be 
required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia. 
Sitagliptin (Januvia) is a DPP-4 inhibitor that has been approved for marketing in the EU in March 
2007. The indication is:  
For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, Januvia is indicated: 
• 
• 
• 
to improve glycaemic control in combination with metformin when diet and exercise plus 
metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
to improve glycaemic control in combination with a sulphonylurea when diet and exercise plus 
maximal tolerated dose of a sulphonylurea alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control and 
when metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
to improve glycaemic control in combination with a sulphonylurea and metformin when diet and 
exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in whom use of a PPARγ  agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) is 
appropriate, Januvia is indicated: 
• 
in combination with the PPARγ agonist when diet and exercise plus the PPARγ agonist alone do 
not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Metformin  is  a  biguanide  that  has  been  used  widespread  for  T2DM.  It  has  become  the  most 
commonly selected first-line agent in the treatment of patients with T2DM. It was originally granted 
national  authorisations  in  the  EU  between  1959  and  1997.  Following  a  referral  to  the  CPMP  under 
Article 11 of Council Directive 75/319, as amended, a decision on a harmonised SPC for metformin 
was issued in February 2001. Metformin is authorized for the indications:  
“Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus, particularly in overweight patients, when dietary management 
and exercise alone does not result in adequate glycaemic control.  
-  In adults,  metformin  may  be  used  as  monotherapy or  in  combination  with  other  oral  anti-diabetic 
agents or with insulin.  
-  In  children  from  10  years  of  age  and  adolescents,  metformin  may  be  used  as  monotherapy  or  in 
combination with insulin.” 
6/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended starting dose of metformin is two or three times daily 500 or 850 mg taken with or 
after meals. Due to frequent gastrointestinal (GI) side effects, uptitration is recommended at 10-15 day 
intervals. The recommended maximum daily dose is 3000 mg but most patients do not tolerate such 
high doses and the additional effect achieved with daily doses beyond 2000 mg is usually minor. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Velmetia  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  containing  sitagliptin  and  metformin  hydrochloride  as 
active  substances  in  the  strength  combinations  50  mg/850  mg  and  50  mg/1000mg.  The  other 
ingredients  are  microcrystalline  cellulose,  povidone,  sodium  stearyl  fumarate,  sodium  lauryl  sulfate 
and purified water. The film consists of polyvinyl alcohol, titanium dioxide, macrogol, talc, iron oxide 
red, iron oxide black and purified water.  
The  film-coated  tablets  are  marketed  in  opaque  blisters  (outside  PVC/PE/PVDC  coated  blister  foil, 
inside heat seal laquered with aluminum foil). 
Drug Substance 
Two  active  substances  are  used  in  this  fixed  combination  product,  sitagliptin  and  metformin 
hydrochloride. 
Sitagliptin 
The drug substance is sitagliptin as monohydrate phosphate salt and its chemical name is 7-[(3R)-3-
amino-1-oxo-4-(2,4,5-trifluorophenyl)butyl]-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-[3-(trifluoromethyl)-1,2,4-triazolo[4,3-
a]pyrazine phosphate (1:1) monohydrate according to the IUPAC nomenclature. 
Sitagliptin is a white to off-white powder and exhibits pH dependent aqueous solubility. It is soluble in 
water  and  N,N-dimethyl  formamide,  slightly  soluble  in  methanol,  very  slightly  soluble  in  ethanol, 
acetone  and  acetonotrile  and  insoluble  in  isopropanol  and  isopropyl  acetate.  The  above-mentioned 
active substance contains a chiral centre and is used as a single enantiomer (R).  
•  Manufacture 
Sitagliptin  is  synthesised in  two  reactions  steps,  hydrogenation,  in  order  to  obtain  the  stereospecific 
free base, followed by the preparation of the phosphate monohydrate salt. Finally the active substance 
is purified by crystallisation. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  adequately  described.  Critical  parameters  have  been  identified 
and adequate in-process controls included.  
Specifications for starting materials, reagents, and solvents have been provided. Adequate control of 
critical steps and intermediates has been presented. 
Structure  elucidation  has  been  performed  by  ultraviolet  spectroscopy, 
infrared  absorption 
spectroscopy, 1H-NMR spectroscopy, 13C-NMR spectroscopy and the molecular weight as determined 
by mass spectroscopy is in agreement with the expected molecular weight.  The results of the X-ray 
crystallography are consistent with the proposed molecular structure.  
•  Specification 
The active substance specifications include tests for colour (white to off-white powder), identification 
(IR), assay (98.5-101.5 % w/w HPLC), impurities (HPLC), residue on ignition and water content (Karl 
Fisher). 
The  specifications  reflect  all  relevant  quality  attributes  of  the  active  substance.  The  analytical 
methods,  which  were  used  in  the  routine  controls,  were  described  and  their  validations  are  in 
accordance with the ICH Guidelines.   
7/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impurities  have  been  described,  classified  as  process  related  impurities  and  possible  degradation 
products,  and  qualified.  Residual  solvents  were  satisfactorily  controlled  in  the  active  substance.  All 
limits  are  in  accordance  with  ICH  requirements.  The  chiral  purity  was  also  tested.  Certificates  of 
analyses  for  the  active  substances issued by  the  finished  product  manufacturer were  provide  and  all 
batch analysis results comply with the specifications and show a good uniformity from batch to batch.  
•  Stability 
The stability results from long-term accelerated and stress studies were completed according to ICH 
guidelines and demonstrated adequate stability of the active substance. The active substance is not 
susceptible to degradation under the influence of light. The results of the long-term and accelerated 
studies support the retest period.  
Metformin hydrochloride 
Metformin hydrochloride’s chemical name is 1,1-Dimethylbiguanide monohydrochloride according to 
the IUPAC nomenclature. This active substance is described in the Ph. Eur. It is a white, hygroscopic 
crystalline  powder that is odourless  and has a  bitter taste. The  compound  is  freely  soluble in  water, 
slightly  soluble  in  ethanol  and  practically  insoluble  in  chloroform,  acetone,  ether  and  in  ethylene 
chloride.  It  has  a  specific  crystalline  form  and  has  not  demonstrated  polymorphism  or  solvates. 
Particle  size  does  not  significantly  influence  dissolution  of  metformin  hydrochloride,  because  it  is 
freely soluble in water. 
The chemistry, manufacturing and control information on metformin hydrochloride has been evaluated 
by  the  EDQM  and  a  European  Certificate  of  Suitability  of  the  Monograph  of  the  European 
Pharmacopoeia (CEP) has been issued.  
Metformin  hydrochloride  which  was  used  in  all  of  the  formulation  development  meets  the 
specifications of Ph. Eur. Monograph. 
The tests and limits in the specifications are considered appropriates for controlling the quality of this 
active substance. 
Batch analysis data of the three batches of metformin hydrochloride drug substances are provided. The 
three lots are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
The stability results from long-term accelerated and stress studies were completed according to ICH 
guidelines  and  demonstrated  adequate  stability  of  the  metformin  hydrochloride.  The  re-test  period 
proposed was considered acceptable according to the stability data submitted. 
Drug Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
All information regarding the choice of the drug substance and the excipients are sufficiently justified.  
Velmetia film-coated tablets were developed 3 tablet strengths of sitagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
(50 mg/500 mg, 50 mg/850, 50 mg/1000 mg) which were used either in clinical trials or in stability 
program. However, only two tablet strengths (50 mg/850 and 50 mg/1000 mg) will be marketed in the 
EU. 
The  main  aim  of  the  applicant  was  to  develop  a  formulation  which  would  be  bioequivalent  to 
individual sitagliptin phosphate and metformin hydrochloride tablets co-administered. The formulation 
was  optimized  to  provide  rapid  release  of  the  both  active  substances.  In  this  context,  the  excipients 
have been chosen in order to take into account the following objectives: facilitate rapid dissolution of 
the drug substances as expected with an immediate release dosage form; provide satisfactory chemical 
stability and provide appropriate process robustness. 
A  fluid  bed  granulation  process  was  selected  based  on  the  poor  compatibility  of  metformin 
hydrochloride and its high drug load in the fixed dose combination (FDC) tablet.  
8/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  was  noticed  that  the  formulation  development  activities  were  driven  by  both  product  quality  and 
process  robustness  considerations.  The  key  points  examined  during  formulation  development  were: 
the effect of binder level on granule and tablet properties, the effect of surfactant on tablet dissolution, 
and  the  effect  of  lubricant  on  stability,  tablet  compression  performance  and  tablet  dissolution. 
Furthermore, it was verified that the excipient levels were optimized to provide high quality tablets for 
film-coating  as  well  as  maintain  rapid  dissolution  of  both  active  substances.  Additionally,  the 
composition  optimization  sought  to  minimize  the  excipient  quantities  consistent  with  achieving  the 
desired quality attributes, and to minimize the tablet sizes.   
Results  of formulation and  process  development  studies  demonstrate  that the  tablet  formulation  and 
the manufacturing process are robust and under control. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process  involves  standard  technology  using  standard 
manufacturing processes such as fluid bed granulation, drying, granulation milling, blending and 
lubrication,  compression,  and  film-coating  unit  operations.  Furthermore,  the  equipment  used  is 
commonly available in the pharmaceutical industry. It was demonstrated that there are no critical steps 
in the manufacturing process. 
The  batch  analysis  results  show  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly 
according the agreed finished product specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The  drug  product  specifications  were  established  according  to  the  ICH  guidelines  and  include  the 
following  tests:  appearance,  identification  (IR  and  HPLC),  assay  (95.0%-105.0%)  of  both  drug 
substances,  degradates  (sitagliptin)  and  related  substances  (metformin)  by  HPLC-testing,  dose 
uniformity, dissolution, and microbial limits (Ph Eur). 
All  analytical  procedures  that  were  used  for  testing  the  drug  product  were  properly  described. 
Moreover, all relevant methods were satisfactorily validated in accordance with the CHMP and ICH 
guidelines.  
Batch  analysis  data  on  three  clinical  and  pilot  scale  batches  scale  batches  confirm  satisfactory 
uniformity of the product at release 
•  Stability of the Product 
The stability studies were conducted according to the relevant ICH guideline. Three production scale 
batches of 50/500 mg and 50 mg /1000 mg have been stored at long term and accelerated conditions in 
the proposed market packaging. The bracketing of the 50/850 mg tablets by testing only 50/500 mg 
tablets and 50/1000 mg tablets was considered acceptable. 
Two  production  batches  per  strength  were  stored  under  photostability  stress  testing  under  ICH 
conditions.  The photostability results show that the tablets are not sensitive to light. 
Based  on  the  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture,  control  of  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner and justified in accordance with relevant guidelines. The 
results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  the  finished  product. 
Therefore, this medicinal product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were not unresolved quality issues.  
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
9/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Velmetia is a fixed dose combination product containing two approved drugs, sitagliptin (Januvia) and 
metformin.   
The non-clinical primary and secondary pharmacodynamics (PD) of sitagliptin have been previously 
fully  evaluated  and  approved.  Preclinical  animal  models  that  accurately  mimic  the  human 
pharmacology of metformin, however, are not available. Hence, there are no primary and secondary 
pharmacodynamic reports for the FDC.   
The  preclinical  safety  of  the  individual  drugs  has  been  fully  evaluated  and  approved  by  regulatory 
agencies.  As  the  known  pharmacological  properties  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  do  not  suggest 
undesirable combination effects, no additional safety pharmacology studies were performed.  
Pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  in  preclinical  species  are  of  limited  relevance  to  human 
physiology,  as  such,  and  with  support  of  the  clinical  data  no  pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction 
studies with the FDC have been reported. 
The applicant provided minimal data on the toxicology of metformin, based on the package inserts and 
NDA of the products Fortamet and Glucophage. However, metformin is a well-known substance and 
there is an extensive amount of clinical experience. Therefore, from a preclinical point of view, it was 
not considered necessary to request more safety data regarding metformin. 
The applicant received Scientific Advice pertaining to the toxico-pharmacological development of the 
FDC from the CHMP on 21 January 2005. This scientific advice was followed, and as such a series of 
toxicity studies in dogs were conducted to assess the potential for both toxicological and toxicokinetic 
interactions with co-administration of both compounds.   
Pivotal studies regarding sitagliptin, and the combination of metformin and sitagliptin, were performed 
in  compliance  with  GLP.  However,  the  exploratory  single  dose  oral  toxicokinetic  study  TT05-1150 
and the repeated-dose toxicology study with metformin alone (TT06-6018) were non-GLP studies. 
Metformin is a well-established substance. It is not known whether published studies with metformin 
were performed in compliance with GLP. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Sitagliptin is an orally-active DPP-4 inhibitor that acts as an incretin enhancer. The main mechanism 
of  action  of  sitagliptin  is  inhibition  of  the  activity  of  the  DPP-4  enzyme,  which  hydrolyzes  active 
incretin hormones like glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide 
(GIP),  to  produce  inactive  degradation  products.  These  hormones  are  released  after  a  meal  (by 
specialized  endothelial  cells  in  the  intestine)  and  play  an  important  role  in  the  glucose  homeostasis 
(glucose-dependent  insulin  biosynthesis  and  secretion).  As  such,  GLP-1  and  GIP  increase  insulin 
synthesis and release from pancreatic beta cells when glucose concentration is elevated, but not during 
hypoglycaemia. In turn, higher insulin levels result in enhanced uptake of glucose in tissues. GLP-1 
also  lowers  glucagon  secretion  from  pancreatic  alpha  cells  which,  along  with  higher  insulin  levels, 
leads to reduced hepatic glucose production. Efficacy of sitagliptin in lowering blood glucose levels 
after a dextrose challenge was shown in lean mice, in diet-induced obese mice and in diabetic db/db 
mice. With respect to the pharmacology of the metabolites of sitagliptin, M1, M2, and M5 were shown 
to be ~300-, 1000-, and 1000-fold less active,  respectively,  than  sitagliptin as DPP-4 inhibitors. The 
DPP-4 inhibitor activity of M3, M4, and M6 was not determined. The levels of these metabolites in 
human plasma are low and they are not expected to have a meaningful impact on the pharmacological 
activity of sitagliptin. 
Metformin is a well-established treatment for type 2 diabetes.  The efficacy of metformin is believed 
to be mediated primarily via inhibition of hepatic glucose production. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The  selectivity  of  sitagliptin  was  assessed  in  a  number  of  assays,  including  several  proline-specific 
enzymes, proteases, ion channels and 5-HT2 receptors. Sitagliptin appeared to have little affinity for 
10/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
these biological biomolecules (generally IC50 >100 µM). Only a weak activity was demonstrated in 
assays for some ion channels (IKr, L-type Ca channel, and Na channel Site II) and 5-HT2 receptors. 
Considering  safety  pharmacology  data,  together  with  the  safe  clinical  use  of  5-HT2  receptor 
antagonists,  these  observations  are  not  considered  to  be  a  major  concern  for  sitagliptin  in  T2DM. 
Sitagliptin is not expected to inhibit DPP-4 related proteins DPP-8, DPP-9, FAP and PEP, with IC50s 
exceeding  50  µM.  DPP-6  and  DPP-10  are  homologues  of  DPP-4  that  lack  a  catalytic serine  residue 
and  are  therefore  inactive  as  peptidases.  Both  proteins  appear  to  modulate  cellular  trafficking, 
membrane targeting, and functional properties of neuronal Kv4-mediated A-type potassium channels. 
Though  it  is  not  known  whether  sitagliptin  can  bind  to  the  hydrolase  domain  of  DPP-6/10,  such 
binding even if it occurred would not be expected to influence potassium channel function. 
No  secondary  pharmacodynamic  assays  were  performed  with  metformin;  these  studies  were  not 
considered necessary in view of the extensive clinical experience accumulated over the many years on 
the market.  
No secondary pharmacodynamic assays were performed with the fixed dose combination. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Sitagliptin caused no effect on respiratory system, renal function, platelet function, the gastrointestinal 
system, and behavioural and other CNS effects. Minor cardiovascular effects were observed in dogs 
(decreased blood pressure and heart rate). Sitagliptin inhibited hERG current in a hERG channel assay 
at  high  concentrations  (IC50  >  100x  human  Cmax  at  maximally  recommended  dose  of  100  mg/day 
sitagliptin). No effects were observed on ECG or QT-interval in dogs. 
No  formal  safety  pharmacology  studies  have  been  performed  on  metformin. These studies  were  not 
considered necessary in view of the extensive clinical experience accumulated over the many years on 
the market.  
No specific safety pharmacology studies were conducted with the FDC. It is accepted that the known 
pharmacological  properties  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  do  not  suggest  undesirable  combination 
effects  that  would  require  further  safety  pharmacology  studies.  ECG  recordings  were  however 
performed during the repeated-dose toxicology studies in order to investigate potential interactions and 
how any PD or pharmacokinetic (PK) interactions might affect the QTc. These measurements did not 
reveal any treatment-related effects.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  preclinical  PD  drug  interaction  studies  were  performed  on  the  combination  of  sitagliptin  and 
metformin. This is endorsed as sitagliptin and metformin act through different mechanisms of action, 
hence  adverse  PD  interactions  are  not  expected.  Furthermore,  the  combination  of  sitagliptin  and 
metformin is a clinically approved combination.  
No  non-clinical  data  were  provided  on  possible  PD  interactions  of  sitagliptin/metformin  in 
combination  with  a  sulphonylurea  (SU).  However,  clinically,  no  relevant  concerns  were  discovered 
regarding the safety of the combination of sitagliptin/metformin with glimepiride. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Sitagliptin is a moderate to high clearance drug, with a relatively short plasma half-life. Sitagliptin was 
rapidly  absorbed,  bioavailable,  and  exhibited  fairly  linear  oral  pharmacokinetics  in  rat  and  dog.  In 
vitro  plasma  protein  binding  is  low  in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit,  dog,  and  human.  [14C]Sitagliptin-related 
radioactivity  is  distributed  widely  throughout  the  body  following  intravenous  (IV)  administration  to 
rats, but is cleared efficiently from all tissues. However, cecum, intestine, liver and kidneys contained 
still  relatively  high  concentrations  of  sitagliptin  related  material  after  24 hours.  Enterohepatic 
circulation can therefore not be ruled out. Sitagliptin was shown to cross the rat and rabbit placenta 
readily. The sitagliptin metabolites, which are present at low to trace levels in plasma, are formed by 
N-sulfation,  N-carbamoyl  glucuronidation,  hydroxylation  of  the  triazolopiperazine  ring,  and  by 
oxidative  desaturation  of the  piperazine  ring  followed  by  cyclization  via the  primary  amine.  All the 
metabolites  detected  in  human  plasma  are  observed  in  rat  and  dog;  however,  not  all  observed 
metabolites  are  present  in the same  matrix as  observed  in  humans.  Due to the minor  metabolism  of 
sitagliptin,  consequences  of  the  differences  in  metabolism  between  human,  rat  and  dog  on  the 
11/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
observed  PK  are  not  expected.  In  vitro  studies  indicated  that  CYP3A4  is  primarily  involved  in  the 
metabolism  of  sitagliptin,  with  a  minor  contribution of  CYP2C8.  In  dogs  and  humans,  sitagliptin  is 
cleared primarily by renal excretion of parent drug, while in rats it is cleared by both renal and biliary 
excretion. Sitagliptin is shown to be a substrate of the mouse and human P-glycoprotein (Pgp), and the 
human  renal  organic  anion  transporter  hOAT3.  Sitagliptin  is  secreted  into  rat  milk  (milk-to-plasma 
ratio ~ 4). Sitagliptin has no inhibitor capacity for CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4 at 
concentrations up to 100 µM. Furthermore, sitagliptin is not an inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro. In vitro, 
sitagliptin  has  no  inhibitory  effect  on  the  MDR1  Pgp-mediated  transport  of  digoxin,  verapamil, 
ritonavir, and vinblastine. Sitagliptin weakly inhibited MDR1 Pgp-mediated transport of quinidine, but 
only at very high concentrations. Cyclosporin A (potent Pgp inhibitor) significantly inhibited MDR1 
Pgp-mediated  transport  of  sitagliptin.  Sitagliptin  is  a  weak  inhibitor  of  hOAT3-mediated  cimetidine 
uptake; however not at clinically relevant concentrations. The effect of various commonly prescribed 
drugs  (cimetidine,  enalapril,  enalaprilat,  fenofibrate,  fenofibric  acid,  furosemide,  gabapentin, 
ibuprofen,  indapamide,  probenecid  and  quinapril)  on  hOAT3-mediated  uptake  of  sitagliptin  is 
evaluated in vitro. For the major half of these drugs, the IC50 is higher than their maximum total or 
unbound concentration in plasma. Some of these drugs (probenecid, fenofibric acid, furosemide and 
ibuprofen)  have  plasma  Cmax  concentrations  of  free  and  bound  fraction  above  the  observed  IC50 
levels.  Sitagliptin  is  eliminated  by  renal  and  non-renal  mechanisms.  Assuming  that  tubular 
reabsorption of sitagliptin is minimal, approximately 50% of the total plasma clearance of sitagliptin is 
due  to  active  renal  secretion.  Therefore,  even  in  the  unlikely  event  that  active  renal  secretion  is 
completely  inhibited;  the  change  in  plasma  exposure  of  sitagliptin  would  be  only  approximately  2-
fold. Given the apparently wide therapeutic index of sitagliptin, clinically relevant increases in plasma 
concentrations would not be expected in the presence of hOAT3 inhibitors. 
The pharmacokinetics of metformin in rats after oral and IV administration are dose proportional. Oral 
bioavailability in rats was 29 – 34%. In vitro studies indicate that transepithelial transfer of metformin 
in the intestine is at least partly by passive permeation.  
After oral administration of [14C]metformin to normal and diabetic mice, the highest concentrations of 
radioactivity  are  found  in  the  small  intestine,  stomach,  colon,  salivary  gland,  kidney  and  liver.  The 
mean binding value of metformin to rat plasma protein is 15%.  The equilibrium plasma-to-blood cells 
partition ratios of metformin in rat plasma are 1.37, 1.25, and 1.33 at initial blood concentrations of 1, 
5, and 20 mg/mL, respectively. 
Metformin is the major radioactive component in plasma and urine from mice, rats, dogs and humans 
dosed with [14C]metformin. A metabolite, 1-methyl biguanide, is identified in rabbit plasma and urine. 
Studies with various inducers and inhibitors of cytochrome P450 enzymes indicated that metformin is 
metabolized via CYP2C11, 2D1, and 3A1/2 in rats. 
Metformin  is  excreted  primarily  in  urine  in  rats  and  dogs.  The  estimated  renal  clearance  value  of 
metformin is considerably faster than the reported glomerular filtration rate in rats, indicating that, like 
sitagliptin,  metformin  is  subject  to  active  renal  secretion  in  rat  renal  tubules.  However,  unlike 
sitagliptin, metformin has been shown to be a substrate of the cationic organic transporters hOCT1 and 
hOCT2, but not hOAT1, hOAT3 or hOCT2-A. 
Possible PK interactions of sitagliptin and metformin with other drugs have been studied in previous 
submissions  or  are  known  from  clinical  experience.  Interactions  between  sitagliptin  and  metformin 
based on cytochrome P450 metabolism are not likely since neither substance is metabolised to a great 
extent.  Furthermore,  different  enzymes  are  involved  in  the  metabolism  of  these  substances  and 
sitagliptin is shown not to be an inducer or inhibitor of cytochrome P450 enzymes. Interactions at the 
level of renal transporters are not likely either, since different transporters are involved. Toxicokinetic 
results  of  a  combination  study  in  dogs  also  indicate  that  no  relevant  PK  interactions  occur  between 
sitagliptin and metformin.  
Pharmacokinetic interactions of sitagliptin/metformin in combination with a SU were not investigated 
non-clinically.  However,  clinically,  there  was  no  cause  for  concern  regarding  the  combination  of 
sitagliptin/metformin with glimepiride. 
Toxicology 
12/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single dose studies with sitagliptin were performed in mice and rats. The highest non-lethal dose in 
mice is 1000 mg/kg (122 times the human exposure based on AUC). In rats the highest non-lethal dose 
was 2000 mg/kg for females and 3000 mg/kg for males (271 and 182 times the human exposure based 
on AUC respectively). 
The LD50 values for metformin in mice, rats, rabbits, and dogs are 2400, 1770, 552, and 375 mg/kg, 
respectively. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Sitagliptin repeat-dose toxicity studies were performed in mice (up to 93 days), rats (up to 184 days) 
and dogs (up to 365 days). The maximum non-lethal dose was 750 mg/kg/day for mice (approximately 
80 times the human exposure based on AUC), 500 mg/kg/day for rats (48 times the human exposure 
based on AUC), and ≥ 50 mg/kg/day for dogs (≥ 22 times the human exposure based on AUC).  
In both mice and rats renal toxicity is observed at systemic exposure values above 58 times the human 
exposure levels,  while the no-effect level  is  found  at 19  times  the human  exposure level.  In  mice  it 
consisted  of  dilatation  of the  renal  pelvis  (associated  with  variable loss  of  papillary,  medullary,  and 
cortical  tissue)  and  increases  in  relative  kidney  weights.  In  rats,  renal  toxicity  consisted  of  renal 
tubular  necrosis  (accompanied  by  tubular  degeneration  and  dilatation)  and  treatment  related  urinary 
changes  (consistent  with  renal  tubular  necrosis).  The  mortality  seen  in  rats  is  due  to  renal  tubular 
necrosis.  It  is  likely  that  renal  toxicity  is  specific  for  rodents,  due  to  the  very  high  and  rapid  renal 
elimination of sitagliptin in rodents. This is supported by the lack of any renal toxicity in dogs. 
Liver  toxicity  was  seen  in  both  mice  and  rats  and  consisted  of  liver  weight  increases,  centrilobular 
hepatocellular hypertrophy, inflammation, degeneration, and necrosis (at higher doses) in the 14-week 
range-finding  study  at  doses  ≥500  mg/kg/day;  and  cystic  degeneration  and  focal  hepatocellular 
alteration in  the  106-week  carcinogenicity  study  at  500  mg/kg/day.  Even  though  the  mechanism  for 
sitagliptin-induced  liver  toxicity  is  not  completely  clear,  the  safety  margins  for  these  effects  are 
sufficient.  In  addition,  no  hepatotoxicity  is  found  in  dogs  treated  with  maximum-tolerated  doses  of 
sitagliptin for up to 1 year. 
Sitagliptin  caused  teeth  abnormalities  in  rats  at  exposures  similar  to  the  human  exposure,  based  on 
AUC.  These  effects  were  only  observed  on  the  continuously  growing  teeth  in  rats;  they  were  not 
observed  on  the  continuously  growing  teeth  in  mice.  Velmetia  is  not  indicated  for  use  in  children 
below 18 years of age thereby excluding patients with ongoing tooth development, indicating that in 
the current indication, these effects are of little relevance. 
Other  treatment-related  findings  in  the  rat  were  myocardial  degeneration,  mammary  gland  necrosis, 
uterine  atrophy,  tremors,  lymphoid  and  some  haematological  changes,  alopecia,  increased  organ 
weights  (thyroid  (F),  adrenal,  prostate)  and  decreased  organ  weights  (pituitary  gland  (F)  and  spleen 
(M)). These findings are observed at doses equal to or above the LOAEL for liver and renal toxicity. 
The safety margins for these effects are sufficient. 
Intermittent  tremors  of  a  transient  nature  are  observed  in  rats  receiving  high  doses  of  sitagliptin 
(≥1500 mg/kg/day). The NOEL for neurological signs in dogs is 10 mg/kg. In dogs, the safety margin 
for these effects is approximately 6 (based on AUC as well as on Cmax). This is rather low, however no 
signs of neural toxicity are observed in the clinical trials with sitagliptin at doses sufficiently above the 
maximum recommended clinical dose. The neurological findings in rats and dogs are not considered 
relevant for humans receiving therapeutic doses of sitagliptin. However, as a precautionary measure 
potential neurotoxicity is addressed in the Risk Management Plans of Januvia and Velmetia. 
The clinical relevance of the muscle fibre degeneration found in dogs is limited. This is based on the 
severity of muscle degeneration found in dogs (slight degeneration of isolated fibres which was only 
observed microscopically), the relative low incidence of muscle degeneration in the two studies (2/8 
13/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and 1/8 dogs for 14-week and 27-week study, respectively), and the lack of adverse muscle findings 
for the high-dose in the 1-year dog study as well as in the phase 3 trials. However, in view of a safety 
margin of ≥6, this finding is monitored in the Risk Management Plans of Januvia and Velmetia. 
Necrotic skin lesions in monkeys are reported by the FDA as potential risk of DPP-4 inhibitors. A 14-
week  repeated-dose  study  in  monkeys  (TT  #06-1005)  showed  a  no-effect  level  for  skin  lesions  of 
≥100  mg/kg/day,  corresponding  with  a  22-28  times  higher  exposure  as  compared  to  the  maximum 
recommended dose in human (100 mg/day).  
A study in which metformin was administered at 50 mg/kg/day to dogs showed increased mortality, 
increased serum lactate levels and emesis. 
Sitagliptin + metformin 
The  applicant  performed  three  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  in  dogs  to  rule  out  unexpected 
toxicologic effects of the combination (two studies with the combination sitagliptin + metformin, and 
one study with metformin alone to establish the effects of metformin alone in the dog strain used). The 
dog was chosen as the most sensitive species since in rats very high doses of sitagliptin were required 
to produce toxicity. The dog proved also rather sensitive towards metformin; repeated application of 
50  mg/kg/day  of  metformin,  alone  or  in  combination  with  different  doses  of  sitagliptin,  caused 
salivation, emesis, increased serum lactate and unscheduled deaths (probably due to lactic acidosis). In 
a  few  early-death  animals  in  the  combination  study  TT06-6000  (10 mg/kg  sitagliptin  +  50 mg/kg 
metformin or 50 mg/kg sitagliptin + 50 mg/kg metformin), vacuolation and/or neuronal necrosis was 
observed  in  the  brain.  These  histological  findings  were  accompanied  by  severe  physical  signs  pre-
death and therefore are most likely signs of agony. Spontaneous deaths also occurred in study TT06-
6018  (metformin  50  mg/kg/day  alone)  but  in  this study  no  histological  examination  was  performed. 
The brain effects as observed in study TT06-6000 were most likely caused by metformin and not by 
the  combination  of  metformin  and  sitagliptin,  because  it  was  shown  that  degenerative  effects  in  the 
brain have also been observed in studies where dogs had been administered metformin alone. Also in 
these studies, these effects were observed at doses from 50 mg/kg/day. The combination studies with 
sitagliptin  and  metformin  in  dogs  thus  indicated  no  evidence  of  toxicokinetic  or  toxicologic 
interactions.  
No  non-clinical  studies  were  performed  for  the  combination  of  sitagliptin/metformin  with  a  SU, 
however,  sitagliptin,  metformin  and  SU  have  different  toxicity  profiles,  and  therefore  interactions 
seem unlikely. Furthermore, clinically, no relevant concerns were discovered regarding the safety of 
the combination of sitagliptin/metformin with glimepiride. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Sitagliptin was not seen to be genotoxic in an in vitro assay on gene mutations in bacteria (Ames test), 
in an in vitro assay on gene mutations in mammalian cells (rat hepatocytes), in an in vitro chromosome 
aberration assay (Chinese hamster ovary cells) or in an in vivo mouse micronucleus test.  
Metformin  is  not  mutagenic  or  clastogenic  in  the  Ames  bacterial  mutagenicity  assay,  chromosomal 
aberration assay, cytogenetic assay, or in vivo micronucleus assay.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
In a 2-year mouse study performed with sitagliptin no treatment-related increase in tumour incidence 
is observed. In a 2-year rat study, there is an increased incidence in hepatic tumours which is likely 
related  to  chronic  hepatic  toxicity.  The  safety  margin  for  these  tumours  is  19,  which  is  considered 
sufficient. 
No increased tumour incidence is observed in a 2-year study in mice with metformin. No tumourigenic 
potential  is  observed  in  rats  except  for  an  increase  in  benign  stromal  uterine  polyps  in  females. 
Extensive clinical experience does not indicate an increased tumourigenic potential. 
14/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Sitagliptin did not affect male or female fertility in rats up to 1000 mg/kg/day (approximately 100-fold 
the human exposure at 100 mg/day). In combined embryo-foetal/pre- and postnatal studies in rats, a 
slight  increased  incidence  of  foetal  rib  malformations  (absent,  hypoplastic,  and  wavy  ribs)  was 
observed at 1000 mg/kg/day as well as decreased body weight gain in the pups. The NOEL for this 
effect was 250 mg/kg/day (approximately 32-fold the human exposure at 100 mg/day).  An embryo-
foetal study in rabbits showed no developmental effects. Sitagliptin is excreted in rat milk. 
Metformin did not affect fertility and is not teratogenic in rats and rabbits. Metformin is excreted in rat 
milk. 
The  FDC  of  sitagliptin/metformin  should  not  be  used  in  women  who  are  breast-feeding;  this  is 
reflected in the SPC. 
•  Local tolerance  
Sitagliptin  was  not  seen  to  be  a  dermal  irritant  in  rabbits  and  in  an  in  vitro  human  epidermal  skin 
culture system. Sitagliptin is a mild ocular irritant in the in vitro bovine corneal opacity assay and a 
moderate ocular irritant in vivo in rabbits. Sitagliptin is not a dermal sensitizer in a local lymph node 
assay in mice. 
No local tolerance studies were performed with metformin. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity:  Inhibition  of  DPP-4  by  sitagliptin  does  not  seem  to  play  a  major  role  in  T-cell 
dependent immune responses. Animal data on the role of DPP-4 in T-cell immune response showed no 
consistent changes after inhibition/knock out of DPP-4. In vitro studies showed that the concentrations 
of  sitagliptin  needed  to  evoke  noticeable  effects  on  T-cells  are  sufficiently  far  above  the  maximal 
plasma concentration which is reached after a therapeutic dose of 100 mg in humans. In the repeated-
dose toxicity studies, there is no suggestion of an immunosuppressive effect of sitagliptin.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Environmental  risk  regarding  sitagliptin  has  been  evaluated  during  the  registration  procedure  of 
Januvia.  It  is  concluded  that  sitagliptin  is  neither  vPvB  nor  PBT  and  that  the  risk  to  the  aquatic 
environment is acceptable. 
No  ERA  is  provided  for  metformin.  However,  metformin  is  a  well-established  substance,  and 
therefore submission of complete new studies is regarded not necessary.  
2.4 Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical pharmacology programme consisted of 4 pharmaceutical/pharmacokinetic studies which 
served  to  bridge  the  FDC  tablet  to  the  clinical  pharmacologic,  pharmacokinetic,  safety  and  efficacy 
data for sitagliptin and metformin combination use presented in the original sitagliptin MAA.  
Dose selection for the sitagliptin component of Velmetia was based upon dose-range finding studies 
(P010 and P014). Dose selection of the metformin component of Velmetia was based upon the usual 
prescribed doses of metformin in the treatment of patients with T2DM.            
15/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial  data  supporting  the  efficacy  of  the  combination  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  emerged  from  a 
Phase  II  study  (P015).  The  Phase  III  clinical  development  program  was  designed  to  evaluate  3 
treatment modes:  
• 
• 
• 
sitagliptin  as  add-on  therapy  to  ongoing  metformin  monotherapy  dosed  at  ≥1500  mg/day 
(P015, P020, and P024)  
sitagliptin  as  add-on  therapy  to  the  ongoing  combination  of  metformin  and  a  sulfonylurea 
(P035, Stratum 2) 
initial treatment with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin (P036). 
16/43
  
 
 
Summary of Phase II and Phase III Clinical Research Studies Contributing to the Efficacy Profile of Velmetia 
Total Study 
Duration 
(Phase A/Phase 
B) 
Randomization Ratio (total 
randomized N) and 
Treatment Arms (Exposed 
N/arm) 
Efficacy Endpoints 
Protocol No./Ref 
Study Title 
Phase II Studies 
P015 
Phase III Studies 
P020 
(Phase B ongoing) 
P024 
P035 
Randomization ratio: 
1:1(N=28) 
•  Placebo/Sitagliptin 50 mg 
b.i.d. (N=13) 
•  Sitagliptin 50 mg 
b.i.d./Placebo (N=15) 
Randomization ratio: 1:2 
(N=701) 
•  Placebo (N=237)* 
•  Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d.  
(N=464) 
*Note: Placebo patients were 
switched (after the 24-week 
Phase A portion of the 
study) to glipizide uptitrated 
to 15 mg as tolerated 
Randomization ratio: 1:1 
(N=1172)  
•  Glipizide (N=584) 
•  Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. 
(N=588) 
A Multicenter, Double-
Blind, Randomized, 
Placebo-Controlled, 
Crossover Study With 
MK-0431 in Patients With 
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus 
Who Have Inadequate 
Glycemic Control on 
Metformin 
A Multicenter, 
Randomized, Double-
Blind Study to Evaluate 
the Safety and Efficacy of 
the Addition of MK-0431 
to Patients With Type 2 
Diabetes Mellitus Who 
Have Inadequate Glycemic 
Control on Metformin 
Therapy 
A Multicenter, Double-
Blind, Randomized Study 
to Evaluate the Safety and 
Efficacy of the Addition of 
MK-0431 Compared With 
Sulfonylurea Therapy in 
Patients With Type 2 
Diabetes With Inadequate 
Glycemic Control on 
Metformin Monotherapy 
A Multicenter, 
Randomized, Double-
Blind Placebo-Controlled 
Study to Evaluate the 
Safety and Efficacy of the 
Addition of MK-0431 to 
Patients With Type 2 
Diabetes Mellitus Who 
Have Inadequate Glycemic 
Control on Glimepiride 
alone or in Combination 
with Metformin 
Randomization ratio: 1:1 
(N= 441) 
Entire Cohort  
• 
• 
Placebo (N=219) 
Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. 
(N=222) 
Stratum 1  
• 
• 
Placebo (N=106) 
Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. 
(N=106) 
Stratum 2   
• 
• 
Placebo (N=113) 
Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. 
(N=116) 
8 weeks: 
Two 4-week 
double-blind 
placebo-
controlled 
cross-over 
periods 
104 weeks: 
(24-week 
double-blind 
placebo-
controlled/80-
week double-
blind active-
controlled) 
104 weeks: 
(104-week 
double-blind 
active- control; 
primary 
efficacy 
hypothesis after 
52 weeks) 
54 weeks: 
(24-week 
double-blind 
placebo-
controlled/30-
week double-
blind active-
controlled) 
•  Primary: 
24-hour WMG 
•  Secondary: 
•  FPG, fructosamine, 
mean daily SBGM (7-
point fingerstick daily 
glucose average 
concentration and 2-
hour post-meal 
average) 
• Primary: 
HbA1c 
•  Secondary: 
FPG, 2-hour PMG, 
lipid panel 
In subset: Frequently 
sampled meal-
tolerance test (MTT) to 
assess indices of  
insulin secretion 
•  Other Endpoints:  
Proinsulin-to-insulin 
ratio  
•  Primary: HbA   1c 
•  Secondary: 
FPG, lipid panel; in 
subset: frequently 
sampled MTT to assess 
indices of  insulin 
secretion (based upon 
measurements of PMG, 
insulin, C-peptide) 
•  Other endpoints: 
Appetite changes, 
HOMA-IR, 
QUICKI, HOMA-β, 
Proinsulin-to-
insulin ratio 
•  Primary: HbA   1c 
•  Secondary: FPG, time 
to rescue, lipid panel; 
in subset: frequently 
sampled MTT to 
assess indices of 
insulin secretion 
(based upon 
measurements of 
PMG, insulin, C-
peptide) 
•  Other endpoints: 
HOMA-IR, QUICKI, 
HOMA-β, Proinsulin-
to-insulin ratio 
17/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol No./Ref 
Study Title 
P036  
A Multicenter, 
Randomized, Double-
Blind Factorial Study of 
the Co-administration of 
MK-0431 and Metformin 
in Patients With Type 2 
Diabetes Mellitus Who 
Have Inadequate Glycemic 
Control 
Randomization Ratio (total 
randomized N) and 
Treatment Arms (Exposed 
N/arm) 
Randomization ratio: 
1:1:1:1:1:1 (N=1091) 
•  Sitagliptin 50 mg b.i.d. 
plus metformin 500 mg 
b.i.d. (N=190) 
•  Sitagliptin 50 mg b.i.d. 
plus metformin 1000 mg 
b.i.d. (N=182) 
•  Metformin 500 mg b.i.d. 
(N=182) 
•  Metformin 1000 mg 
b.i.d. (N=182) 
•  Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. 
(N=179) 
•  Placebo (N=176)*  
•  Open-label Cohort 
(N=117) 
*Note: Placebo patients are 
switched (after the 24-week 
Phase A portion of the 
study) to metformin 
Total Study 
Duration 
(Phase A/Phase 
B) 
54 Weeks: 
24-week 
double-blind 
placebo-
controlled /30-
week double-
blind active-
controlled 
Efficacy Endpoints 
•  Primary: HbA   1c 
•  Secondary: FPG, 2-
hour PMG, 
proportion of patients 
achieving glycemic 
goals, proportion of 
patients receiving 
glycemic rescue,  3-
point MTT to assess 
indices of insulin 
secretion (based upon 
measurements of 
PMG, insulin, C-
peptide, 
fructosamine), lipid 
levels  
in subset: 10-point MTT 
to assess indices of β-
cell function 
•  Other endpoints: 
HOMA-IR, 
QUICKI, HOMA-β, 
Proinsulin-to-
insulin ratio  
b.i.d. = twice daily; q.d. = once daily; WMG = weighted mean glucose; FPG = fasting plasma glucose; SBGM = self-blood 
glucose monitoring; HbA1c = haemoglobin A1c; PMG = post-meal glucose; MTT = meal tolerance test.; HOMA-β= 
homeostasis model assessment-β; HOMA-IR = homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance; QUICKI = quantitative 
insulin-sensitivity check index. 
The  claimed  indication  and  approved  indication  are  very  similar;  for  details  on  the  indication  and 
posology see section 3.1 of this report.  
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 21 January 2005 pertaining to the clinical 
development programme of the fixed dose combination.  
Velmetia  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  children  below  18  years  of  age.  Limited  safety  data  is 
available  in  patients  >  75  years  of  age;  therefore  Velmetia  should  be  used  with  caution  as  age 
increases. Further special populations such as patients with renal insufficiency and hepatic impairment 
have also been studied, leading to contraindications in both.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
In  support  of  the  current  MAA  for  the  proposed  FDC,  the  Applicant  submitted  a  single  dose  pilot 
study  (P038),  a  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  (P048),  a  double  blind  cross-over  study  assessing 
incretin  levels  (P050),  and  a  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  (P095)  as  well  as  a  single  dose 
sitagliptin/metformin  interaction  study  (P012).  The  latter  study  had  already  been  submitted  and 
evaluated during the initial MAA for sitagliptin and suggests the absence of relevant pharmacokinetic 
(PK)  interactions  between sitagliptin  and  metformin.  The submitted  pharmacology  studies are listed 
below, and a summary is presented in the introduction section 3.4. 
Study PN012:  Sitagliptin (1000 mg) and metformin (50 mg) drug interaction study in patients; N=13 
18/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study PN038:   Three  way,  two  part, single  dose  biocomparison  study  with  2  probe formulations  of 
sitagliptin/metformin 50/500 mg and 50/1000 mg FDC tablets and coadministration of 
corresponding doses of sitagliptin and metformin as individual tablets; N=24 
Study PN048:  Two  way,  two  part,  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  with  the  final  formulations 
sitagliptin/metformin 50/500 mg and 50/1000 mg FDC tablets and coadministration of 
corresponding doses of sitagliptin and metformin as individual tablets; N=48 
Study PN095: Two way, three part, single dose bioequivalence study with the final formulations of 
sitagliptin/metformin  50/500  mg,  50/850  and  50/1000  mg  FDC  tablets  and 
coadministration of corresponding doses of sitagliptin and metformin (Glucophage®) 
as individual tablets; N= 82 
Study PN050  Double  blind,  four  period  crossover  study  to  evaluate  effect  of  sitagliptin  and 
metformin alone or in combination on post-meal active GLP-1 concentrations; N=18 
•  Absorption  
Following  oral  administration  of  a  100  mg  dose,  maximal  plasma  concentrations  of  sitagliptin  were 
reached within 1 to 4 hours. The absolute bioavailability (BA) of sitagliptin is high i.e. 87%. A high-
fat  meal  had  no  effect  on the  rate  or  extent  of  absorption;  therefore,  sitagliptin  can  be  administered 
with or without food. 
After an oral dose of metformin, Tmax is reached in 2.5 hours. Absolute BA of a 500 mg or 850 mg 
metformin tablet is approximately 50-60 % in healthy subjects. After an oral dose, the non-absorbed 
fraction recovered in faeces was 20-30 %.  
After oral administration, metformin absorption is saturable and incomplete. It is assumed that the PK 
of metformin absorption is non-linear. 
At  the  usual  metformin  doses  and  dosing  schedules,  steady  state  plasma  concentrations  are  reached 
within  24  to  48  hours  and  are  generally  less  than  1  µg/ml.  In  controlled  clinical  trials,  maximum 
metformin plasma levels (Cmax) did not exceed 4 µg/ml, even at maximum doses. 
Food decreases the extent and slightly delays the absorption of metformin. Following administration 
of  a  dose  of  850  mg,  a  40  %  lower  plasma  peak  concentration,  a  25  %  decrease  in  AUC  and  a 
35 minute prolongation of time to peak plasma concentration were observed. The clinical relevance of 
these decreases is unknown. 
Demonstration  of  bioequivalence  (BE)  of  the  sitagliptin/metformin  FDC  tablets  and  their  active 
components  given  as  individual  tablets  is  important  to  extrapolate  the  efficacy  and  safety  results 
obtained  with  the  sitagliptin  and  metformin  co-administration  studies  to  the  FDC  (no  phase  II/III 
studies  have  been  performed  using  the  FDC)  and  to  ensure  that  T2DM  patients  already  taking 
metformin (and sitagliptin) can be safely and effectively switched to the FDC tablets. 
These BE studies are also of prime importance as the applicant did not submit a full PK dossier with 
all  required  studies  but  instead  referred  to  the  results  of  the  individual  dossiers  of  sitagliptin  and 
metformin. 
The rationale for not submitting specific pharmacology/pharmacokinetic study reports with regard to 
the PK properties of the FDC tablet was that at the time of the submission, information regarding the 
PK  properties  was  known  for  the  individual  components.  Since,  no  drug  interaction  between 
sitagliptin and metformin was identified in study P012 and as also no clinically meaningful food-effect 
on  either  sitagliptin  or  metformin  absorption  was  identified,  no  additional  PK studies  with the  FDC 
tablets were considered necessary. 
The  submitted  BE  studies  P038  (exploratory)  and  P048  (pivotal)  demonstrated  bioequivalence 
between  the  higher  (50/1000  mg/mg)  or  lower  (50/500  mg/mg)  dose  strengths  of  the  FDC  and  the 
respective  dose  strengths  of  the  components  given  as  individual  tablets.  The  90%  CI  of  the 
corresponding  treatment  differences  for  the  AUC0-∞    and  Cmax  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  were  all 
within the prespecified bounds of (0.80, 1.25).  
Study  P048  presented  several  shortcomings,  making  it  impossible  to  claim  bioequivalence  for  the 
individual  components  and  therefore  impossible  to  refer  to  the  corresponding  dossier.  The  issues 
identified were: 
19/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1)   The reference  product for  metformin  used in  both  P048  and  P038 is  a  generic  product  from  the 
American/Canadian market, while, according to the “NfG on the investigation of bioavailability and 
bioequivalence”,  it  should  have  been  an  innovator  product  from  the  European  market.  Only  the 
sitagliptin tablets used in study P048 are valid as reference product, therefore reference could be made 
to the sitagliptin dossier only. Consequently, the CHMP requested a new BE study using the European 
innovator  product  (Glucophage).  Since  metformin  has  a  non-linear  saturation  kinetics  and  the 
sensitivity  to  detect  differences,  if  present,  is  higher  for  lower  doses,  such  a  study  was  requested  at 
minimum for the dose strength containing 500 mg metformin.  
2) The use of a bracketing strategy for the intermediate dose strength of 50/850 mg/mg which includes 
BE  studies  for  the  higher  (50/1000  mg/mg)  and  lower  (50/500  mg/mg)  dose  strengths  and 
demonstration  of  similar  dissolution  profiles  of  the  3  dose  strengths  of  the  FDC.  In  principle,  this 
strategy  is  acceptable.  However,  the  submitted  comparative  dissolution  studies  either  lacked  the 
intermediate  dose  strength  or  were  not  performed  with  biobatch.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  the 
“NfG on the investigation of bioavailability and bioequivalence”, the CHMP requested a dissolution 
study  comparing  dissolution  profiles  of  the  biobatches  of  all  3  dose  strengths  under  the  same 
conditions. 
Furthermore,  CHMP  requested  the  submission  of  dissolution  tests  comparing  metformin  release  for 
each  dose  strength  of  the  FDC  with  the  respective  dose  strengths  of  the  EU  reference  product 
Glucophage. 
In  response  to  these  comments  results  from  a  new  BE  study  (P095)  were  submitted,  together  with 
results  from  additional  dissolution  studies. The reference  product for  metformin  was  Glucophage  as 
requested. The results of study P095 clearly demonstrate that with respect to metformin all strengths of 
Velmetia are bioequivalent with Glucophage. The half-lives and tmax values were also comparable. 
The comparative dissolution testing with the bio-batches used in the BE study P095 showed that the 
two Velmetia biobatches (50/500 mg and 50/1000 mg) as well as Velmetia 50/850 mg batches release 
metformin considerably faster in the media pH 1.2 and pH 4.5 than the Glucophage originator batches; 
and at pH 6.8 the Velmetia batches release metformin slightly faster than the Glucophage originator 
batches.  
Oral BA of metformin in humans is 50-60% of an administered dose and it is categorized as a BCS 
Class III compound, i.e. fast dissolution and low permeability. In other words, for BA of metformin 
the speed of dissolution from the tablet formulation is not the critical step in the process. Therefore it 
is  concluded  that  the  faster  dissolution  performance  of  metformin  from  Velmetia  in  comparison  to 
Glucophage, is not critical and not unfavourable for the bioavailability performance of the product. 
•  Distribution 
Following  100  mg  IV  dose,  the  steady  state  volume  of  distribution  (Vd)  was  estimated  to  be 
approximately 198 liters, indicating that sitagliptin distributes to the tissues. Plasma protein binding is 
low  (38 % bound)  thus the  potential  for  clinically  relevant  drug-drug  interactions  by  plasma  protein 
binding  displacement  is  low.  The  equilibrium  blood-to-plasma  concentration  ratio  of  sitagliptin  is 
1.21. 
Plasma protein binding in metformin is negligible. Metformin partitions into erythrocytes. The blood 
peak is lower than the plasma peak and appears at approximately the same time. The red blood cells 
most  likely  represent  a  secondary  compartment  of  distribution.  The  mean  Vd  ranged  between  63-
276 L. 
•  Elimination 
For  sitagliptin  metabolism  is a  minor pathway  of elimination.  Following  a  [14C]-labelled  oral  dose, 
approximately  16%  of  the  radiolabelled  sitagliptin  was  recovered  as  metabolites.  In  vitro  studies 
suggested  that  the  primary  enzymes  responsible  for  the  metabolism  were  CYP3A4  and,  to  a  lesser 
extent CYP2C8. Since the metabolites were present at low concentrations in plasma relative to parent 
20/43
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compound,  sitagliptin,  and  not  its  metabolites,  was  considered  mainly  responsible  for  DPP-4 
inhibitory activity. 
Plasma  clearance  following  a  100  mg  IV  dose  of  sitagliptin  was  417  ml/min.  Renal  clearance  and 
plasma elimination half-life were similar after IV and oral dosing. The apparent terminal plasma half-
life is approximately 10-12 hours. Renal excretion of unchanged sitagliptin is the primary mechanism 
of elimination. In patients and subjects with normal renal function (CrCl >80 mL/min), approximately 
75  to  80  %  of  an  oral  dose  is  excreted  unchanged  in  urine  with  a  renal  clearance  of  approximately 
350 mL/min. Since renal clearance exceeds the typical glomerular filtration rate in humans, it appears 
to involve active tubular secretion mechanisms. The results of in vitro studies indicted that sitagliptin 
is a substrate for hOAT3 and Pgp, but not a substrate of human organic cation transporter-2 (hOCT2), 
or hOAT1. As cyclosporine A did not affect the renal elimination of sitagliptin, Pgp appears not to be 
involved  in  the  renal  excretion.  The  role  of  hOAT3  and/or  other  transporters  in  the  active  renal 
secretion is unknown. 
Metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine. No metabolites have been identified in humans. Renal 
clearance of metformin is > 400 ml/min, indicating that it is eliminated by glomerular filtration and 
tubular secretion. Following an oral dose, the apparent terminal elimination half-life is approximately 
6.5  hours.  When  renal  function  is  impaired,  renal  clearance  is  decreased  in  proportion  to  that  of 
creatinine and thus the elimination half-life is prolonged, leading to increased levels of metformin in 
plasma. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
No specific studies were conducted with regard to dose proportionality and time dependency with the 
FDC  tablet.  As  BE  between  the  FDC  tablet  and  co-administration  of  corresponding  doses  of  the 
individual  doses  was  demonstrated,  no  drug  interaction  between  sitagliptin  and  metformin  was 
identified and no clinically meaningful food-effect of either sitagliptin and metformin was identified; 
no additional PK studies were considered necessary. 
•  Special populations 
As metformin and sitagliptin are both excreted by the kidney, Velmetia should be used with caution as 
age increases. Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of metformin-associated 
lactic  acidosis,  particularly  in  the  elderly.  Limited  safety  data  on  sitagliptin  is  available  in  patients 
> 75 years of age and care should be exercised. 
Velmetia  should  not  be  used  in  patients  with  moderate  or  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine 
clearance 
< 60 ml/min) (see sections 4.3 and 4.4 of the SPC). 
Velmetia is not recommended for use in children below 18 years of age due to a lack of data on its 
safety and efficacy in this population. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
PK interactions between metformin and sitagliptin were investigated in a placebo-controlled, 3-period, 
cross-over study (P012) in 13 patients with T2DM on stable monotherapy with metformin. Metformin 
had no effect on the PK of sitagliptin or vice versa.  
In the original Januvia dossier an interaction study of sitagliptin with glyburide was included in which 
no  interactions  were  identified.  The  applicant  also  provided  a  comprehensive  overview  on  possible 
interactions  of  SU  drugs.  In  view  of  these  data  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  use  of  the 
sitagliptin/metformin combination tablet within a triple combination therapy with a SU is possible.  
Sitagliptin and metformin are mainly excreted by the kidney and do not interact in clinical significant 
way  with  CYP450  co-enzymes.  Also,  protein  binding  of  these  components  of  Velmetia  is  low,  and 
therefore any displacement from proteins will not relevantly influence their pharmacokinetics. 
21/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
No  reports  of  studies  pertinent  to  PK  using  human  biomaterial  were  conducted  in  support  of  this 
marketing  application.  At  the  time  of  submission,  information  regarding  the  protein  binding  and 
effects on CYP enzymes and/or transporters was previously known for the individual components of 
the FDC tablet. Because BE between the FDC tablet and coadministration of corresponding doses of 
the individual tablets was demonstrated and no drug interaction between sitagliptin and metformin was 
identified, such data were considered applicable to the FDC.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamics of sitagliptin was studied in 9 previous trials, including 252 healthy volunteers and 
58  T2DM  patients.  In  these  studies  the  effects  of  sitagliptin  on  DPP-4  activity,  incretins,  glucose, 
insulin,  C-peptide  and  glucagon  levels  were  investigated.  These  trials  were  included  in  the  initial 
MAA of Januvia. The PD of metformin is well-known (see metformin section below). Therefore no 
additional  studies  investigating  PD  of  sitagliptin  or  metformin  per  se  are  required  for  the  present 
MAA. One new study (P050) investigating the effect of concomitant administration of sitagliptin and 
metformin on post-meal plasma incretin hormone concentrations has been submitted with this MAA. 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Sitagliptin  is  a  DPP-4  inhibitor.  Although  several  actions  potentially  contribute  to  the  glucose-
lowering  effect  of  DPP-4  inhibitors,  the  most  likely  mechanism  is  through  elevated  incretin 
concentrations  that  lead  to  enhancement  of  glucose-dependent  insulin  secretion  and  a  reduction  in 
glucagon  release.  Increases  in  incretin  concentrations  occur  because  DPP-4  inhibition  reduces  the 
cleavage  and  inactivation of  the  active  (intact)  form  of  the  incretin  hormones, including  GLP-1  and 
GIP. 
Metformin  improves  glycaemic  control  in  patients  with  T2DM  by  lowering  both  basal  and 
postprandial plasma glucose concentrations. These effects result from: 1) a decrease in hepatic glucose 
production,  2)  a  decrease  in  intestinal  absorption  of  glucose  and,  3)  an  improvement  in  insulin 
sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilisation. 
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
Single dose PD for sitagliptin was investigated in a total of 90 healthy male volunteers, healthy elderly 
male and female subjects, young female subjects, obese males and 18 Japanese subjects. Single dose 
PD in patients with mild to moderate T2DM was also investigated, including 58 drug naïve. Multiple 
dose  PD  was  investigated  in  a  total  of  162  healthy  male  volunteers,  middle-aged,  obese  male  and 
female subjects, and 60 healthy young male Japanese subjects.  
In both normoglycaemic healthy subjects and patients with T2DM, sitagliptin inhibited plasma DPP-4 
activity in a dose and concentration-dependent manner. Race, gender and age did not have meaningful 
effects on the relationship between sitagliptin plasma concentrations and DPP-4 activity.  
Compared to placebo, sitagliptin increased post-meal (in healthy subjects and T2DM patients) active 
GLP-1 levels by approximately 2-3-fold. Active GIP levels were similarly increased following an oral 
glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in patients with T2DM. Sitagliptin did not increase total GLP-1 or GIP 
plasma levels. 
GLP-1 has been demonstrated to slow gastric emptying; it was thought that this effect might also be 
seen with sitagliptin; this relationship has not been confirmed.  
Secondary pharmacology 
In a study performed in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension on stable treatment with one or 
more antihypertensive agents sitagliptin compared to placebo showed small but statistically significant 
22/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or nearly significant decreases in mean 24-hour blood pressure between both 100 mg b.i.d. and 50 mg 
for systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP) and mean arterial pressure (MAP). 
In a thorough QTc study, following a dose of 800 mg, QTc interval was slightly increased, but not to a 
clinically  significant  extent.  However,  considering  the  data  separately  by  gender,  a  borderline  effect 
was seen in females at the high dose (800mg) (mean value 5.85 msec with an upper limit of the 95% 
CI of 9.96 (~10 msec), which is the threshold according to ICH guideline E14). However, sitagliptin 
was shown to inhibit HERG current at concentrations (IC50 117 µM, worst case scenario) that were 
far beyond therapeutic free plasma levels. The safety margin calculated from non-clinical studies was 
38,  which  was  considered  sufficient,  even  if  women  were  slightly  more  sensitive  to  an  effect  of 
sitagliptin on QTc. No change in QTc interval was measured after a single dose of 100 mg. 
The  potential  effectiveness  of  the  combination  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  is  based  on  several 
considerations:  1)  recent  data  demonstrate  that  metformin  increases  GLP-1  concentrations—hence 
potentially increasing the efficacy of a medication that inhibits GLP-1 metabolism; 2) differences in 
the primary glucose-lowering effects, with metformin predominantly lowering fasting plasma glucose 
and  sitagliptin  lowering  both  postprandial  and  fasting  plasma  glucose  concentrations;  and  3)  the 
complementary  mechanisms  of  action,  with  metformin  enhancing  insulin  sensitivity  and  lowering 
hepatic  glucose  production  and  sitagliptin  enhancing  insulin  release.  Thus,  co-administration  of 
sitagliptin and metformin may be a useful option in managing patients with T2DM. 
The  newly  submitted  study  P050  was  a  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  double-blind,  four-period 
crossover  study  in  18  healthy  adult  subjects.  The  objective  of  this  study  was  to  explore  the 
mechanisms of action of sitagliptin and metformin on the incretin axis. The effects of administration 
of  sitagliptin  alone,  metformin  alone,  the  combination  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  or  placebo  on 
incremental changes in post-meal incretin hormones (active and total glucagon-like peptide [GLP-1] 
and  glucose-dependent  insulinotropic  polypeptide  [GIP])  and  glucose  concentrations  were  also 
determined. The primary endpoint was the 4-hour post-meal (meal consumed at 2 hours postdose; at 
the  approximate  Tmax  for  sitagliptin  and  metformin)  weighted  average  active  GLP-1  concentrations 
after  concomitant  administration  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  compared  with  administration  of 
sitagliptin alone.  
Compared with placebo, both sitagliptin alone and metformin alone increased the 4-hour incremental 
weighted  average  active  GLP-1  concentrations  by  approximately  80  to  95%  (1.8-  to  1.95-times) 
whereas the increase for the combination of sitagliptin and metformin was approximately 310% (4.1-
times).  Metformin,  but  not  sitagliptin,  increased  active  and  total  GLP-1  concentrations  to  similar 
extents.  Sitagliptin, but not metformin, increased active GIP concentrations. The reduction in the post-
meal  incremental  glucose  AUC0-4hr  after  concomitant  administration  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin 
compared  with  administration  of  either  sitagliptin  alone  or  metformin  alone  was  similar  in  these 
healthy  subjects.  It  is  unclear  how  these  findings  relate  to  changes  in  glycaemic  control  in  patients 
with type 2 diabetes. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response studies 
Initial  data  supporting  the  efficacy  of  the  combination  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  emerged  from 
Phase II study P015 that showed sitagliptin provided improvement in 24-hour glucose concentration 
profiles in patients with inadequate glycaemic control on metformin monotherapy.  
Dose selection for the sitagliptin component of Velmetia was based upon dose-range finding studies 
P010  and  P014.  Results  of  these  studies  showed  that  sitagliptin  provided  improvements  in  glucose 
control, as reflected by reductions across glycaemic endpoints examined (including HbA1c, FPG, and 
fructosamine). Of the doses examined, 100 mg per day, either given as 100 mg q.d. or 50 mg b.i.d., 
provided  maximum  glucose-lowering  effect;  there  was  no  meaningful  difference  in  efficacy  with 
sitagliptin 100 mg administered as 100 mg once-daily or as 50 mg twice-daily. 
When  determining  the  doses  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  to  be  included  in  the  FDC  development 
program,  the  registered  doses  of  metformin  and  the  common  prescribing  practices  for  metformin 
23/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(twice  daily  dosing),  as  well as the tolerability  and  efficacy  of  metformin,  were  considered.  For the 
FDC  a  twice-daily  dosing  regimen  compatible  with  the  twice  daily  dosing  regimen  of  immediate 
release  metformin  has  been  developed.  The  choice  of  the  dose  and  dose  frequency  of  the  50/850 
mg/mg and 50/1000 mg/mg are acceptable.  
The lowest proposed strength, i.e. 50mg/500mg, however was not considered acceptable. The minimal 
metformin dose assessed in studies P020 and P024 was 1500 mg per day; the efficacy of metformin in 
reducing  T2DM  complications  was  demonstrated  in  UKPDS  34,  in  which  a  great  majority  of  the 
patients were treated with metformin doses >1700 mg per day. Although there might be a minority of 
patients who cannot tolerate metformin at doses higher than 1000 mg, it is unlikely that the FDC tablet 
offers  a  meaningful  benefit  compared  to  the administration  of  the  separate  components.  In  addition, 
the  low  dose  FDC  tablet  could  promote  initial  combination  therapy  which  is  not  approved  and  not 
covered by current diabetes treatment guidelines. Therefore, the approval of the 50/500 mg tablet is 
not recommended. The Applicant has withdrawn this strength. 
•  Main studies  
As well as two new studies P035 and P036; studies P020 and P024, previously submitted in the MAA 
for Januvia, were resubmitted in support of the present application. These studies are presented as an 
abbreviated version.  
The  final  study  reports  of  study  P035  and  study  P036,  presenting  the  complete  54-week  data  were 
submitted by the Applicant with their Day120 response document. 
Study P020: A multicenter, randomised, double-blind study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the 
addition of sitagliptin to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have inadequate glycaemic control 
on metformin therapy. 
This combination study suggested that sitagliptin was more effective than placebo in reducing HbA1c 
at 24 weeks. 
Study P024: A multicenter, double-blind, randomised, active controlled study to evaluate the safety 
and efficacy of the addition of MK-0431 compared with sulfonylurea therapy in patients with Type 2 
Diabetes with inadequate glycaemic control on metformin monotherapy. 
The  assessment  of  the  CHMP  concluded  that  sitagliptin  100  mg  per  day  as  add-on  therapy  to 
metformin was shown to have a significant and clinically relevant effect on glycaemic control but non-
inferior  efficacy  compared  to  sulfonylureas  was  not  unequivocally  proven.  However,  results  were 
sufficient to approve the add-on indication.  
Study P035: A double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study of sitagliptin as add-on therapy in 
patients with inadequate glycaemic control on glimepiride alone or in combination with metformin 
This study was also submitted in support of a Type II Variation to support the use of sitagliptin in dual 
combination with a sulfonylurea (SU) or in triple combination with a SU and metformin which was 
approved on the 19 December 2007. 
Study P036: A randomised, double-blind, factorial, parallel-group study in T2DM patients to assess 
the efficacy and safety of an initial combination therapy with sitagliptin 50 mg b.i.d. and metformin 
500 mg b.i.d. or 1000 mg b.i.d. compared to either agent alone when diet and exercise did not provide 
adequate glycaemic control. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Main inclusion criteria 
Adult patients with T2DM either on previous or no previous antihyperglycaemic medication (AHA) 
and  pre-defined  HbA1c  values  at  screening  and  at  the  end  of  the  wash-out/run-in  period  (7-10%  in 
study  P020,  6.5-10%  in  study  P024,  7.5-10.5%  in  study  P035,  7.5-11%  in  study  P036)  indicating 
24/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
insufficient glycaemic control on metformin monotherapy of at least 1500 mg per day (studies P020, 
P024) or on SU monotherapy or on combination therapy of SU and metformin (study P035) or on diet 
and exercise alone (study P036) were eligible. Upper age limit for participation was 78 y in studies 
P020, P024 P036 and 75 y in study P035. 
Main exclusion criteria 
- 
- 
- 
Patient required insulin within the prior 8 weeks 
Patients with contraindications or not tolerating the run-in or co-medication (if applicable) 
Moderate  to  severe  renal  insufficiency,  active  hepatic  disease  or  cirrhosis,  chronic  myopathy, 
progressive  neurological  or  neuromuscular  disorder,  major  haematological  disease,  poorly 
controlled hypertension, NYHA class III or IV congestive heart failure; myocardial infarction, 
unstable angina or stroke within the past 6 months 
Treatments 
In all studies, patients had to discontinue any previously used AHAs that were not allowed to be used 
during  the  study.  During  the  subsequent  dose  titration/stable  dose  run-in  phase  the  desired  baseline 
medication  (metformin  in  studies  P020,  P024  and  glimepiride  [+/-  metformin]  in  study  P035)  was 
introduced  and  uptitrated.  The  final  dose  achieved  during  the  run-in  phase  (at  least  1500  mg 
metformin  and  4-8  mg  glimepiride)  had  to  be  maintained  during  the  double-blind  treatment  period. 
However,  glimepiride  could  be  down-titrated 
the  occurrence  of 
hypoglycaemia.  
Subsequently, patients meeting pre-defined HbA1c criteria entered a 2-week single blind placebo run-
in phase, and if ≥75% compliant with study medication, were subsequently randomized to one of the 
treatment groups. 
Concurrent  lipid-lowering  or  antihypertensive  medications  were  expected  to  remain  on  a  stable 
regimen during the run-in phase and the double-blind treatment period. 
if  necessary  because  of 
Rescue therapy 
To  ensure  that  patients  did  not  have  prolonged  periods  of  inadequate  glycaemic  control, open-label, 
sponsor-supplied rescue therapy was implemented in patients meeting pre-specified criteria for HbA1c 
and/or fasting plasma glucose (FPG) in studies P020, P035 and P036.  
Patients on rescue medication continued the double-blind study medication. 
Discontinuation criteria (regarding glycaemic control) 
-  Hypoglycaemia (repeated) without a reasonable explanation  
-  Patient meets glycaemic rescue criteria but is not eligible for rescue therapy (if applicable).  
-  Hyperglycaemia (persistent) as measured by FPG or HbA1c (predefined limits depending on study 
duration) and despite completion of uptitration of rescue medication (if applicable). 
The following figure provides a description of P035 study design. The study had a 24-week double-
blind  placebo-controlled  phase  (Phase  A)  followed  by  a  30-week  active  comparator  (pioglitazone) 
phase (Phase B). 
25/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SB PBO: SINGLE BLIND PLACEBO 
Study P036 had a 24-week, placebo-controlled, Phase A, and an ongoing 30-week, active-controlled 
Phase B. Patients were randomized in a 1:1:1:1:1:1 ratio to 1 of 6 treatment groups (see figure below). 
26/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The primary objectives of the combination and active comparator studies were: 
P020: In patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have inadequate glycaemic control on metformin 
at a dose of ≥1500 mg/day: (1) After 24 weeks, to assess the effect of the addition of treatment with 
sitagliptin  compared  with  the  addition  of  placebo  on  HbA1c;  (2)  To  assess  the  safety  and  the 
tolerability of sitagliptin. 
P024: In patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have inadequate glycaemic control on metformin 
at  a  dose  of  ≥1500  mg/day:  (1)  After  52  weeks,  to  assess  the  effect  of  the  addition  of  sitagliptin 
compared  with  the  addition  of  glipizide  on  HbA1c  (2)  To  assess  the  safety  and  the  tolerability  of 
sitagliptin compared with glipizide. 
P035: In patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have inadequate glycaemic control on glimepiride 
at a dose of ≥4 mg/day, alone or in combination with metformin at a dose of ≥1500 mg/day: (1) After 
24 weeks, to assess the effect of the addition of treatment with sitagliptin compared with the addition 
of placebo on HbA1c; (2) To assess the safety and the tolerability of sitagliptin. 
P036: In patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with inadequate glycaemic control on diet and exercise: 
Primary:  After  24  weeks:  (1)  To  assess  the  effect  of  co-administration  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin 
compared  with  the  effect  of  metformin  monotherapy  on  HbA1c;  (2)  To  assess  the  effect  of  co-
administration  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  compared  with  the  effect  of  sitagliptin  monotherapy  on 
HbA1c;  (3)  To  assess  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  co-administration  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin, 
27/43
  
 
 
 
 
sitagliptin  monotherapy,  and  metformin  monotherapy, 
gastrointestinal adverse events (i.e., abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea). 
including 
the 
incidence  of  selected 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary  endpoint  in  all  Phase  III  studies  was  change  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  (at  Week  24  in  P020, 
P035,  and  P036  and at  Week  52  in  P024). Key  secondary  endpoints  included  FPG  and  PMG (post-
meal glucose). 
Additional glycaemic efficacy endpoints included fasting measures of β-cell function (HOMA-β and 
proinsulin-to-insulin  ratio),  measures  of  insulin  resistance  (HOMA-IR  and  QUICKI),  and  endpoints 
assessed using 9- or 10-point frequently sampled meal tolerance tests (MTT), including model-based 
analysis and the insulinogenic index. 
Sample size 
In the superiority trials (P020, P035 and P036) sample size was calculated to have clearly over 90% 
power  to  detect  a  true  difference  of  0.5%  in  the  mean  change  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  between  any 
sitagliptin group and placebo for a two-tailed test at α=0.05. In trial P024, the non-inferiority margin 
was set at 0.3%. 
Randomisation 
Allocation numbers were randomly assigned (in a blinded manner) to the possible treatment groups. 
Blinding (masking) 
Investigator  site  personnel  and  patients  were  blinded  to  the  patient  treatment  assignment  until  all 
patients  had  completed  the  study.  Applicant  research  personnel  remained  blinded  to  the  individual 
patient  treatment  assignment  until  the  initial  24-week  (P020,  P035,  and  P036)  and  52-week  (P024) 
portions of studies were completed, the in-house review of the patient-level data was finished, and the 
data file frozen for analysis. 
Statistical methods 
An ANCOVA model with treatment, baseline HbA1c and prior AHA therapy as covariates was used to 
compare the treatment groups in the continuous efficacy parameters focusing on change from baseline at 
study endpoint. Due to the large number of study centers and the small numbers of patients at each 
center, study center was not included as a factor in the analysis model. However, as local influences 
were  deemed  a  concern,  the  applicant  was  requested  to  provide  additional  analyses  regarding  the 
consistency of the treatment effect, taking in to account that if the number of patients per centre is too 
small for such an analysis, grouping per region could be an acceptable alternative. 
Hierarchical testing procedures were used in studies P020, P035 and P036.  
To avoid the confounding influence of rescue therapy on efficacy comparisons, the efficacy analyses 
treated  data  as  missing  after  the  initiation  of  rescue  therapy.    The  primary  approach  to  handling 
missing  data  was  the  last  observation  carried  forward  (LOCF)  method.  As  a  sensitivity  analysis,  a 
maximum  likelihood  approach  for  repeated  measurements  was  used  as  the  secondary  approach  for 
handling missing data. Where appropriate, a time-to-rescue analysis was performed using the Kaplan-
Meier estimator and the log-rank test. 
The primary analysis in the superiority trials (P020, P035 and P036) was the all-patient-treated (APT) 
analysis,  which included  patients  with  a  baseline  measurement,  consumption  of  at least  one  dose  of 
double-blind study medication and the presence of a post-randomization measurement. In addition, a 
completer analysis was performed for the primary endpoint HbA1c and, if applicable, for FPG. No per 
protocol (PP) analysis excluding patients with major protocol violations was planned. 
The  primary  analysis  in  the  non-inferiority  trial  P024  was  the  per  protocol  (PP)  population,  the 
secondary analysis the APT population. 
An  analysis  of  the  proportion  of  individuals  meeting  the  HbA1c  goal  of  <7.0%  or  <6.5%  at  end  of 
study was conducted using a logistic regression model which included terms for baseline HbA1c, prior 
antihyperglycemic therapy status, and treatment group.   
No interim analyses were performed in the phase 3 trials. 
28/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
In P020 a total of 1464 patients were screened and 701 were randomized. The most common reasons 
for  patients  not  being  randomized  were  failure  to  meet  HbA1c  inclusion  criteria  (43.4%)  and  an 
elevated creatinine or decreased creatinine clearance (12.7%). 
In P024 a total of 2141 patients were screened and 969 patients were excluded during screening. The 
most common reason for patients not being randomised was for patient not meeting HbA1c inclusion 
criteria based at Visit 1 or Visit 3 (34.3%).  
In  study  P035  a  total  of  1098  patients  were  screened,  441  of  whom  were  randomized.  The  most 
common  reason  for  patients  not  being  randomised  was  HbA1c  outside  inclusion  criteria  at  Visit  1 
(39.8%)  or  at  Visit  3  (18.7%).  Of  note,  the  final  number  of  patients  randomized  into  the  study 
exceeded the protocol-specified target number of patients (n=360).  
The  percentage  of  patients  completing  Phase  A  was  similar  in  the  sitagliptin  (83.3%)  and  placebo 
(81.7%)  groups.  However,  among  sitagliptin  treated  patients,  more  patients  on  glimepiride  and 
metformin  (stratum  2)  completed  Phase  A  (87.9  %)  compared  to  patients  on  glimepiride  alone 
(stratum 1; 78.3%).  
Discontinuation due to lack of efficacy was more frequent in the placebo than the sitagliptin group. 
In  P036  a  total  of  3544  patients  were  screened  and  1091  were  randomized.  Another  117  patients 
entered the open-label cohort. The most common reasons for patients being excluded from the study 
were failure to meet HbA1c inclusion criteria (52.6%) and an elevated serum creatinine or decreased 
creatinine clearance (10.3%). 
The overall disposition of patients who entered the study through Week 24 is shown in the diagram 
below. Amongst the randomized patients, the overall discontinuation rate was highest in the placebo 
group (27.8%), followed by the sitagliptin monotherapy group (20.7%), and was lowest in the “high 
dose” combination sitagliptin 50 mg b.i.d. / metformin 1000 mg b.i.d. group (10%). 
The discontinuation rate due to lack of efficacy was highest in the placebo group (6.8%), followed by 
the  metformin  500  mg  b.i.d.  group  (2.7%)  and  was  lowest  in  the  “high  dose”  and  “low  dose” 
combination therapy groups (1.1 and 1.05%, respectively). 
29/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall disposition of patients including data after initiation of glycaemic rescue therapy. 
Screened 
Excluded 
Randomised 
3544 
2336 
                    1091 
Sita 50 
mg 
b.i.d. + 
Met  
Sita 50 
mg 
b.i.d. + 
Met  
Sita 100 
mg  
q.d.  
Met 500 
mg  
b.i.d.  
Met 1000 
500 mg  
1000 mg  
mg b.i.d. 
b.i.d.  
b.i.d. 
 Placebo  
 N (%) 
n=179 
(100) 
 142 
(79.3) 
 37 (20.7) 
 6 
 2 
 3 
 3 
 2 
 N (%) 
n=182 
(100) 
 153 
(84.1) 
 29 (15.9) 
 4 
 0 
 5 
 2 
 1 
 N (%) 
n=182 
(100) 
 156 
(85.7) 
 26 (14.3) 
 5  
 0  
 3  
 4  
 0  
 N (%) 
n=190 
(100) 
164 
(86.3) 
26 (13.7) 
4 
0 
2 
3 
0 
 N (%) 
n=182 
(100) 
 164 
(90.1) 
 18 (9.9) 
 1 
 0 
 2 
 8 
 1 
N (%) 
n=176 
(100) 
 127 
(72.2) 
 49 (27.8) 
 7 
 2 
 12 
 8 
 2 
 12 
 3 
 6 
 11 
 3 
 3 
 12  
 0  
 2  
9 
5 
3 
 3 
 3 
 0 
 12 
 3 
 3 
Randomised 
Completed 
Discontinued 
Clinical AE 
Laboratory AE 
Lack efficacy 
Lost to follow-up 
Pat. discont. for 
other 
Pat. withdrew 
consent 
Prot-spec discon 
criteria 
Protocol dev 
Patients are counted within a Time Frame based on the latest discontinuation reason for that patient  
Recruitment 
The periods of recruitment for the phase 3 pivotal trials were the following:  
o  P020 13-Jul-2004 through 20-Jul-2005 
o  P024 26-Oct-2004 to 14-May-2005 
o  P035 27-Apr-2005 through 9-Jan-2007 
o  P036 01-Apr-2005 to 01-Mar-2007 
Conduct of the study 
117 
Sita 50 
mg 
b.i.d. + 
Met  
1000 mg 
b.i.d. 
OLC  
 N (%) 
n=117 
(100) 
 79 (67.5) 
 38 (32.5) 
 3 
 0 
 19 
 3 
 1 
 4 
 5 
 3  
There were no study amendments in P020, P024, P035 or P036 that would likely affect the results of 
the study.  
Baseline data 
Baseline characteristics in study P020 and P024 were generally balanced across the treatment groups.  
In Study P035, baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the treatment groups in the 
entire cohort, and also in each stratum. However, patients in stratum 2 (on dual combination therapy 
with  glimepiride  and  metformin)  had  slightly  lower  baseline  HbA1c  values,  a  longer  duration  of 
T2DM,  and  were  more  likely  to  be  on  combination  therapy  at  screening  compared  with  patients  in 
stratum  1  (on  glimepiride  monotherapy).  The  proportion  of  patients  on  previous  AHA  therapy  was 
very similar among sitagliptin and placebo-treated patients. 
In  Study  P036  the  Randomized  Cohort,  mean  age  (range)  was  53.5  y  (20-78),  BMI  32.1  kg/m2 
(18.0-59.7),  HbA1c  8.8%  (6.3-11.9),    FPG  200  mg/dL  (95-373),  and  mean  duration  of  diabetes  4.5 
years (0-35); 49.4% of patients were male, 51.7% were White and 27.2% Hispanic. 49.6% of patients 
were taking AHAs at screening. With the exceptions of a slight difference in the proportion of male 
30/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients  (lowest  42.3%,  highest  55.3%)  there  were  no  relevant  baseline  differences  between 
treatment groups. 
Compared  to  patients  in  the  Randomized  Cohort,  patients  in  the  Open-label  Cohort  exhibited 
generally  poorer  baseline  glycaemic  control  (mean  HbA1c  11.2%),  a  longer  mean  duration  of 
T2DM  (6.1  y),  and  were  more  likely  to  be  taking  AHAs  at  screening  (62.4%)  and  also  had  a 
larger proportion of Hispanics (46.2%) and a lower proportion of Whites (37.6%). 
Numbers analysed 
For  study  P035, in all treatment  groups, at least  95%  of  patients  were included in  the  primary  APT 
analysis. The number of patients included in the secondary completers’ analysis was markedly lower, 
being lowest in the placebo group (65.8%), largely due to the requirement for rescue therapy. 
Compliance  rate  was  similar  between  the  sitagliptin and  placebo  groups  (98.5%  vs.  98.6%).  Only  a 
small  number  of  randomized  patients  (approx.  1.5%)  were  assessed  as  having  potentially  important 
protocol violations, which was considered unlikely to meaningfully alter the study’s conclusion. 
For study P036, in all treatment groups, more than 96% of patients were included in the primary APT 
analysis. The number of patients included in the secondary completers’ analysis was markedly lower, 
being  lowest  in  the  placebo  group  (50.6%)  and  in  the  sitagliptin  100  mg  q.d.  group  (63.1%),  being 
largely  due  to  the  requirement  for  rescue  therapy.  Compliance  with  study  drug  was  > 97%  in  all 
treatment  groups.  Only  23  of  the  randomized  patients  (2.1%)  were  assessed  as  having  potentially 
important  protocol  violations,  which  was  considered  unlikely  to  meaningfully  alter  the  study’s 
conclusion. One patient was prematurely unblinded due to a SAE (ketoacidosis). 
Outcomes and estimation 
The main study results (Phase A) for study P020 were the following: 
Glycaemic control  
The addition of 100 mg q.d. sitagliptin to metformin was superior to placebo in lowering HbA1c (see 
table  below).  The  completers  analysis  confirmed  this  conclusion,  although  the  placebo  adjusted 
treatment  effect  was  smaller,  which  was  explained  by  the  removal  of  a  larger  number  of 
rescued/discontinued patients (with a poorer HbA1c) from the placebo group than the sitagliptin group.  
The results of the primary endpoint were supported by secondary glycaemic parameters such as FPG, 
proportion of patients achieving HbA1c <7% or <6.5%, glucose-lowering effect after administration 
of a standard meal challenge or proportion of patients requiring rescue therapy. Initiation of rescue 
therapy was substantially later in the sitagliptin treatment group compared to the placebo group. 
In this study sitagliptin add-on at a dose of 100 mg q.d. provided statistically significant and clinically 
relevant  improvement  in  glycaemic  control compared  to  placebo  add-on  in  patients  with T2DM  not 
31/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sufficiently controlled on metformin alone. This superiority was reflected in all glycaemic parameters 
evaluated. The study was powered to detect a true between-group difference of 0.5% in HbA1c.  
The main study results for study P024 were the following: 
Glycaemic control  
The addition of 100 mg q.d. sitagliptin was non-inferior to glipizide in lowering HbA1c at the end of 
the 52-week treatment period (see table below). The APT analysis showed similar results. 
Analysis of change from baseline in HbA1c (%) at week 52, PP and APT population 
Treatment 
MK-0431 100 mg 
Glipizide 
N 
382 
411 
Per-Protocol Population 
Mean (SD) 
Baseline 
Week 52 
Mean (SE) 
Change from Baseline 
LS Mean 
(SE) 
95% CI for 
LS Mean 
7.48 (0.76) 
7.52 (0.85) 
6.84 (0.66) 
6.86 (0.69) 
-0.64 (0.04) 
-0.66 (0.04) 
-0.67 (0.04) 
-0.67 (0.04) 
(-0.75, -0.59) 
(-0.75, -0.59) 
p-Value 
<0.001 
<0.001 
Between Treatment Difference 
MK-0431 100 mg vs. Glipizide  
Root Mean Square Error of Change =0.58 
Difference in LS Means (95% CI) 
-0.01 (-0.09, 0.08) 
Treatment 
MK-0431 100 mg 
Glipizide 
N 
576 
559 
All-Patients-Treated Population 
Mean (SD) 
Baseline 
Week 52 
Mean (SE) 
Change from Baseline 
LS Mean 
(SE) 
95% CI for 
LS Mean 
7.69 (0.89) 
7.65 (0.90) 
7.15 (0.99) 
7.08 (0.87) 
-0.54 (0.03) 
-0.57 (0.03) 
-0.51 (0.04) 
-0.56 (0.04) 
(-0.60, -0.43) 
(-0.64, -0.47) 
Between Treatment Difference 
MK-0431 100 mg vs. Glipizide  
Root Mean Square Error of Change =0.73 
Difference in LS Means (95% CI) 
0.04 (-0.04, 0.13) 
CI=Confidence Interval; LS=Least Squares; SD=Standard Deviation; SE=Standard Error 
The results of the primary endpoint were supported by secondary glycaemic parameters such as FPG, 
proportion  of  patients  achieving  HbA1c  <7%  or  <6.5%  and  glucose-lowering  effect  after 
administration of a standard meal challenge. 
In this study more patients in the sitagliptin arm discontinued due to lack of efficacy as compared to 
glipizide  treated  patients  (86  [15%]  vs  58  [10%]).  Sitagliptin  patients  discontinued  primarily  at  the 
beginning  of  the  study,  while  glipizide  patients  discontinued  at  the  end.  If  the  glipizide  dose  could 
have  been  increased  beyond  the  initial  titration  phase,  better  results  might  have  been  obtained  with 
glipizide.  There  was  a  difference  between  the  APT  and  PP  results,  but  the  difference  was  not 
substantial,  as  would  have  been  expected  if  early  discontinuing  patients  were  to  be  meaningfully 
impact the study results. 
Similar  results  were  obtained  for  FPG  data.  Proportions  of  patients  reaching  target  HbA1c  were 
consistent with HbA1c data. 
At  Week  52,  a  modest,  statistically  significant  (p<0.001),  decrease from  baseline  in  body  weight  of 
1.5 kg  was  observed  in  the  sitagliptin  treatment  group,  while  the  glipizide  treatment  group  had  a 
modest, statistically significant (p<0.001), increase of 1.1 kg from baseline in body weight, resulting 
in a significant between-group difference of -2.5 kg (p<0.001). 
Although the Applicant claimed non-inferiority, the CHMP concluded that sitagliptin 100 mg per day 
as  add-on  therapy  to  metformin  was  shown  to  have  a  significant  and  clinically  relevant  effect  on 
glycaemic control but non-inferior efficacy compared to SU was not unequivocally proven. However, 
results were sufficient to approve the add-on indication. 
In study P035 a significant reduction in HbA1c was obtained in patients when sitagliptin was added to 
glimepiride  and  metformin,  while  the  addition  of  placebo  had  no  effect.  After  24  weeks  the  mean 
32/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
change from baseline was –0.59% (95% CI -0.74, -0.44) for sitagliptin versus +0.30% (95% CI 0.14, 
0.45)  for  placebo.  The  mean  between  group  difference  was  –0.89%  (-1.10,  -0.68)  in  favour  of 
sitagliptin. In the sitagliptin group, a nadir in HbA1c reduction from baseline was observed at Week 12, 
with a rise observed from Week 12 to Week 24; a similar rise was observed in the placebo group. 
In  this  study,  a  total  of  160  patients  in  the  sitagliptin  group  and  122  patients  in  the  placebo  group, 
respectively, had completed Phase A and continued in Phase B. A similar proportion of these patients, 
i.e. 57% and 56% in the sitagliptin and pioglitazone group, respectively, completed Phase B. Overall; 
the most common reason for discontinuation was lack of efficacy. Due to the study design (switching 
patients from placebo to pioglitazone but maintaining patients on sitagliptin on unchanged medication) 
and the small remaining sample size, possible conclusions from this follow-up study are very limited. 
The main 54-week efficacy results of study P035 are presented in the table below. 
The  results  show  that,  after  54  weeks,  sitagliptin  continued  to  provide  limited  but  clinically 
meaningful reductions in HbA1c in the entire study population, when added to ongoing therapy with 
glimepiride alone (Stratum 1) or glimepiride and metformin (Stratum 2).  
In  study  P036  co-administration  treatment  resulted  in  larger  decreases  in  HbA1c  than  sitagliptin 
monotherapy  and  metformin  monotherapy  (see  table  below,  analysis  of  change  from  baseline  in 
HbA1c(%)  at  Week  24  all-patients-treated  population).  The  Applicant  does  not  claim  a  first-line 
33/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment.  This  study  does  not  demonstrate  that  starting  with  combination  treatment  is  superior  to 
sequential treatment. 
Results  of  patients  reaching  their  goal  HbA1c,  data  on  FPG  and  other  secondary  parameters  were in 
line with HbA1c results. 
Treatment Group  
Sita 100 mg q.d.  
Met 500 mg b.i.d.  
Met 1000 mg b.i.d.  
Sita 50 mg b.i.d. + 
Met 500 mg b.i.d.  
Sita 50 mg b.i.d. + 
Met 1000 mg b.i.d.  
Placebo  
Mean (SD)  
Change from Baseline  
N  
175  
178  
177  
183  
Baseline  
8.87 (0.99)  
8.90 (1.00)  
8.68 (0.91)  
8.79 (1.00)  
Week 24  
8.18 (1.45)  
8.04 (1.36)  
7.58 (1.27)  
7.37 (1.20)  
Mean (SE)  
-0.69 (0.10)  
-0.85 (0.09)  
-1.09 (0.08)  
-1.42 (0.09)  
LS Mean  
(SE)  
-0.66 (0.08)  
-0.82 (0.08)  
-1.13 (0.08)  
-1.40 (0.08)  
95% CI for  
LS Mean  
(-0.83, -0.50)  
(-0.98, -0.66)  
(-1.29, -0.97)  
(-1.56, -1.24)  
p-Value  
<0.001  
<0.001  
<0.001  
<0.001  
178  
8.76 (0.95)  
6.87 (1.09)  
-1.89 (0.08)  
-1.90 (0.08)  
(-2.06, -1.74)  
<0.001  
165  
8.68 (1.00)  
8.88 (1.47)  
0.20 (0.09)  
0.17 (0.09)  
(0.00, 0.33)  
0.049  
Comparing Co-administration with Individual Components  
Difference in LS Means (95% CI)  
p-Value  
Sita 50 mg b.i.d. + Met 500 mg b.i.d. vs. Met 500 mg b.i.d.  
Sita 50 mg b.i.d. + Met 500 mg b.i.d. vs. Sita 100 mg q.d.  
Sita 50 mg b.i.d. + Met 1000 mg b.i.d. vs. Met 1000 mg b.i.d.  
Sita 50 mg b.i.d. + Met 1000 mg b.i.d. vs. Sita 100 mg q.d.  
-0.58 (-0.81, -0.36)  
-0.73 (-0.96, -0.51)  
-0.77 (-1.00, -0.55)  
-1.24 (-1.47, -1.01)  
<0.001  
<0.001  
<0.001  
<0.001  
Comparing Active Treatment Groups with Placebo  
Difference in LS Means (95% CI)  
p-Value  
Sita 100 mg q.d. vs. Placebo  
Met 500 mg b.i.d. vs. Placebo  
Met 1000 mg b.i.d. vs. Placebo  
Sita 50 mg b.i.d. + Met 500 mg b.i.d. vs. Placebo  
Sita 50 mg b.i.d. + Met 1000 mg b.i.d. vs. Placebo  
Other Comparisons  
Average of Differences†: Sita + Met vs. Met  
Average of Differences†: Sita + Met vs. Placebo 
Average of Differences†: Met vs. Placebo 
-0.83 (-1.06, -0.60)  
-0.99 (-1.22, -0.75)  
-1.30 (-1.53, -1.06)  
-1.57 (-1.80, -1.34)  
-2.07 (-2.30, -1.84)  
Difference in LS Means (95% CI)  
-0.68 (-0.84, -0.52)  
-1.82 (-2.02, -1.62) 
-1.14 (-1.34, -0.94) 
Sita 50 mg b.i.d. + Met 500 mg b.i.d. vs. Met 1000 mg b.i.d.  
-0.27 (-0.50, -0.04)  
<0.001  
<0.001  
<0.001  
<0.001  
<0.001  
p-Value  
<0.001  
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.019  
p-Value for ANCOVA Effects  
Baseline Value  
Treatment  
Prior Anti-hyperglycemic Medication  
Root Mean Square Error of Change = 1.09  
†LS mean differences are averaged over the two metformin dose levels.  
<0.001  
<0.001  
<0.001  
b.i.d. = twice daily; CI = Confidence Interval; LS = Least Squares; Met = Metformin; q.d. = once daily; SD = Standard Deviation; 
SE = Standard Error; Sita = Sitagliptin.  
In  this  study,  only  1  to  6  patients  of  each  randomised  group  completed  Phase  A  and  did  not  enter 
Phase B. Among patients treated with active drug in both treatment phases (A and B), the proportion 
of patients completing both phases was highest in the co-administration groups (77-78%), followed by 
the  metformin  1000  mg  BID  group  (75%)  and  was  lowest  in  the  sitagliptin  100  mg  QD  (68%)  and 
metformin 500 mg BID (69%) groups. In line with this finding, discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
occurred more often in the latter monotherapy groups than in the high-dose metformin monotherapy or 
the co-administration groups. 
The main 54-week efficacy results of study P036 are presented in the table below. 
34/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HbA1c and FPG reductions from baseline at week 54 were significantly and clinically relevantly higher 
in the co-administration groups compared to the respective monotherapy groups confirming the benefit 
of  adding  sitagliptin  to  a  metformin  regimen  in  terms  of  glycaemic  control.  Small  and  similar 
increases  in  HbA1c  after  Week  30  were  observed  for  all  treatment  groups  (except  for  the 
placebo/metformin group). Maintenance of the FPG effect was observed for the co-administration and 
metformin  monotherapy  groups,  with  the  FPG  profile  remaining  relatively  flat  during  Phase  B  for 
these  groups,  whereas the sitagliptin  monotherapy  group  showed  a slight  but  continuous  increase in 
FPG after week 18. Numerically, HbA1c and FPG reductions from baseline at week 54 were lowest in 
the  sitagliptin  monotherapy  group.  In  the  secondary  completers  analysis,  however,  HbA1c  reduction 
was  slightly  higher  in  the  sitagliptin  100  mg  (-1.4%)  than  the  metformin  500  mg  BID  (-1.2%) 
monotherapy  group.  Overall,  given  as  monotherapy,  sitagliptin  100  mg  QD  appears  to  have  a 
antihyperglycaemic potency similar to that of metformin 500 mg BID. The Applicant has not applied 
for monotherapy use of sitagliptin. 
Taken together, the previously submitted studies P015, P020 and P024 as well as the new studies P035 
and P036 support the already approved use of sitagliptin in combination with metformin. The newly 
submitted  54-week  results  on  studies  P036  and  P036  show  a  continued  clinically  relevant 
improvement of glycaemic control when sitagliptin is added to a SU agent and/or metformin.  
Additional  analyses,  requested  by  the  CHMP,  revealed  that  in  both  studies  P035  and  P036  there  is 
strong  indication  that  the  effects  in  Europe  are  systematically  smaller  than  in  other  regions  of  the 
world.  However,  the  Applicant  has  made  it  plausible  that  these  differences  are  due  to  a  spuriously 
large estimate for one treatment group (sitagliptin 100mg), which affected all comparisons involving 
that group. This is considered acceptable. 
Data on another DPP-4 inhibitor suggest that, when given in combination with a SU, a daily dose of 
100 mg is no more effective than a 50 mg dose.  The Applicant was requested to discuss whether the 
same is true for sitagliptin. The Applicant does not expect that the dose-response will be meaningfully 
different when sitagliptin is added to SU. Although both SU agents and sitagliptin raise insulin levels, 
35/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  mechanisms  by  which  this  occurs  are  distinct.    This  answer  is  not  completely  satisfying,  as  a 
different  mechanism  of  action  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  the  effects  are  additive.  Nevertheless, 
tolerability of the 100 mg dose is good, and therefore this dose is acceptable. 
Ancillary analyses 
In study P035 a notable difference was observed between the two strata in HbA1c -lowering effect by 
baseline HbA1c category. In stratum 2, stepwise and greater placebo-subtracted HbA1c lowering was 
observed from lower to higher baseline HbA1c categories: -0.55% in patients with baseline HbA1c of 
< 8% to -1.34% in  patients with baseline HbA1c ≥ 9%. In contrast, in stratum 1 no discernable trend 
in placebo-subtracted HbA1c -lowering was observed with higher baseline HbA1c categories.  
For  treatment  effects  on  HbA1c  by  other  baseline  characteristics,  the  responses  were  generally 
consistent  across  subgroups  in  the  entire  cohort  and  in  the  two  strata,  although  in  stratum  2,  there 
were few patients who were treatment naive or who were on AHA monotherapy. 
In  general,  in  study  P036,  the  treatment  effects  were  consistent  and  demonstrated  effective  HbA1c 
lowering for the co-administration and monotherapy treatments in all subgroups defined by baseline 
demographic  and  anthropometric  factors,  and  disease  history.  The  treatment  effect  was  generally 
higher in patients with higher baseline HbA1c levels compared to those with lower HbA1c levels. On 
the other hand, the HbA1c -lowering effects of the co-administration regimens were higher than those 
of the single components for both HbA1c subgroups. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No clinical studies were performed in special populations. 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  assessment  during  the  initial  MAA  of  sitagliptin  led  to  the  conclusion  that  sitagliptin 
treatment  is  associated  with  an  increased  incidence  in  infections  and  infestations,  gastrointestinal 
disorders,  musculoskeletal disorders,  and  nervous  system  AEs  and  that  event  rate  was  increased  for 
skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders. These AEs had been included in the SPC, and in the RMP of 
sitagliptin. 
The  second  component  of  Velmetia,  metformin,  has  a  well-established  safety  profile  that  includes 
several common events (primarily gastrointestinal AEs such as nausea or diarrhoea) and a rare event 
(lactic acidosis) occurring in predisposed patients (particularly those with renal insufficiency).  
The  previously  submitted safety  data  on the  sitagliptin/metformin  combination therapy  showed  that, 
compared to metformin monotherapy, the combination therapy was associated with an increase in the 
adverse drug reactions (ADRs) somnolence, nausea, upper abdominal pain, diarrhoea, blood glucose 
decreased, anorexia and weight decreased. 
Since there is no meaningful PK interaction between sitagliptin and metformin, as seen in Study P012, 
the  safety  and  tolerability  profile  of  co-administered  metformin  and  sitagliptin  is  expected  to  be 
similar to those of the individual agents. 
•  Patient exposure 
Overall,  1685  patients  were  exposed  to  sitagliptin  and  metformin  in  Phase  II  and  Phase III 
combination studies, of which 116 received metformin plus glimepiride. 
The  “safety  summary”  for  this  MAA  contains  the  previously  submitted  studies  (P015,  P020,  and 
P024) and the new studies P035 and P036, and an additional study (P053) which was completed after 
submission of the original marketing application. The tabulated safety summary includes the following 
categories:  
36/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  metformin + sitagliptin,  
•  metformin + placebo,  
•  metformin + SU + sitagliptin,  
•  metformin + SU (with or without additional placebo).  
The Applicant has also provided other updated safety comparisons: 
•  Comparison I: metformin plus sitagliptin-exposed vs. metformin plus sitagliptin non-exposed 
patients  
•  Comparison  II:  metformin  plus  sitagliptin  vs.  metformin  plus  placebo  (add-on  and  initial 
therapy) – a subpopulation of comparison I only including studies with parallel “metformin + 
sitagliptin” and “metformin + placebo” treatment arms.  
The treatment groups compared within Comparisons I and II were generally similar with regard to age, 
gender, race, duration of diabetes, secondary diagnoses, baseline HbA1c and duration of exposure. For 
the  tabulated  safety  summary  no  major  differences  were  present  with  regard  to  mean  age,  gender 
distribution  and  BMI.  However,  mean  baseline  HbA1c  and  FPG  were  highest  in  the  metformin  + 
placebo group (8.6% and 190 mg/dL, respectively) and lowest in the metformin + SU group (7.7% and 
165 mg/dL, respectively). Based on the data (number of patients and patient years), the mean duration 
of  exposure  was  calculated  at  0.84  y,  0.61  y,  0.85  y  and  0.77  y  for  the  4  groups  (metformin  + 
sitagliptin,  metformin  +  placebo,  metformin  +  SU  +  sitagliptin,  metformin  +  SU),  respectively.  As 
expected, mean duration of diabetes was highest in the triple combination group (9.3 y) and lowest in 
the  metformin  +  placebo  group  (5.6  y).  Because  of  imbalances  in  baseline  characteristics  between 
treatment  groups,  results  should  be  interpreted  with  caution.  However,  possible  conclusions  from 
Comparison I are also limited due to the fact that  populations with very different treatment regimens 
are compared (patients on dual or triple combination therapy with metformin + sitagliptin (+ SU) are 
compared  to  patients  on  either  metformin  monotherapy  or  dual  or  triple  combination  therapy  of 
metformin + SU (+pioglitazone). 
•  Adverse events  
The results from Comparison I (metformin plus sitagliptin-exposed vs. metformin plus sitagliptin non-
exposed  patients)  suggest  that  the  combination  therapy  metformin  +  sitagliptin  has  an  acceptable 
safety  profile  compared  to  other  antidiabetic  drug  regimens  including  metformin  but  not  sitagliptin. 
The  safety  assessment  during  the  initial  MAA  of  sitagliptin  led  to  the  conclusion  that  sitagliptin 
treatment is associated with an increased incidence in:  
• 
infections and infestations (including nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infections) 
•  gastrointestinal  disorders  (including  nausea,  constipation,  diarrhoea,  abdominal  pain  and 
flatulence)  
and may be associated with: 
•  musculoskeletal disorders (including myalgia, myopathy and muscle weakness)  
•  neurotoxicity and  
• 
skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders (including urticaria).  
These AEs had been included in the SPC and/or in the RMP of sitagliptin. The new safety summary 
(Comparison  I)  does  not  suggest  such  increased  risks,  which  is  reassuring,  but  it  should  be  kept  in 
mind that the populations and their antidiabetic regimens are different in the current analysis (focus on 
metformin  +  sitagliptin  combination  therapy  in  comparison  to  other  treatment  options)  than  in  the 
previous analysis. The observed slight decrease in haemoglobin (Hb) during sitagliptin treatment has 
been identified previously but is not considered clinically relevant.   
37/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  results  from  Comparison  II  suggest  a  favourable  safety  profile  of  the  combination  therapy 
metformin  +  sitagliptin.  The  previously  submitted  safety  data  on  sitagliptin/metformin  combination 
therapy  showed  that,  compared  to  metformin  monotherapy,  the  combination  therapy  was  associated 
with an increase in the adverse drug reactions: 
somnolence 
• 
•  nausea  
•  upper abdominal pain 
•  diarrhoea 
•  blood glucose decreased 
• 
anorexia and weight decreased.  
However,  according  to  the  newly  submitted  updated  safety  summary,  such  associations  cannot  be 
confirmed;  particularly  hypoglycaemia  and  GI  AEs  appear  not  to  be  increased  when  sitagliptin  is 
added  to  metformin.  The  observed  slight  decrease  in  Hb  during  sitagliptin  treatment  has  been 
identified  previously  but  is  not  considered  clinically  relevant.  Whether  the  observed  differences  in 
discontinuation  due  to  pre-defined  kidney  criteria  are  due  to  differences  in  adherence  to  these 
discontinuation criteria cannot be clarified. The effect of sitagliptin on the remaining kidney function 
was  previously  assessed  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  chronic  renal  failure  (P028).  From 
previously submitted studies there is no indication that sitagliptin has a deleterious effect on kidney 
function.  Events  in  the  SOC  ‘skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue  disorders’  occurred  at  an  increased 
frequency  when  sitagliptin  was  added  to  metformin.  Because  skin  lesions  have  been  identified  as  a 
potential safety concern, monitoring of such events are already included in the risk management plan. 
The  results  from  the  tabulated  safety  summary  suggest  an  acceptable  safety  profile  for  the  triple 
combination therapy of metformin + SU + sitagliptin compared to the dual combination metformin + 
SU.  The  only  trial  (P035)  that  has  directly  compared  these  treatment  regimens  found  small  but 
significantly increased incidences in the AEs of: 
•  gastroenteritis 
•  pneumonia 
• 
arthralgia 
•  osteoarthritis 
•  pain in extremity 
•  dizziness 
•  headache and  
•  hypoaesthesia  
and a markedly increased incidence (16.4 vs. 0.9%) in hypoglycaemia with the triple combination. In 
the new comparison, which is acknowledged to have relevant limitations, some AEs such as infections 
and  headache  are  also  found  at  an  increased  rate.  On  the  other  hand,  hypoglycaemia  occurred  at  a 
lower  rate  which  clearly  contrasts  previous  findings.  This  difference  may  be  explained  by  the 
relevantly lower baseline HbA1c in the dual therapy vs. the triple therapy group in the tabulated safety 
summary. 
The  dual  combination  therapy  with  metformin  +  sitagliptin  was  associated  with  a  markedly  lower 
frequency  of  hypoglycaemia  than  the  combination  metformin  +  SU.  This  is  not  unexpected  since 
sitagliptin  itself  does  not  lead  to  hypoglycaemia.  However,  it  should  be  noted  that  the,  on  average, 
lower baseline HbA1c levels in patients on metformin + SU may have added to the large difference in 
hypoglycaemia rates. Overall, this tabulated safety summary does not elicit new safety concerns. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In  addition  to  the  above  comparisons,  the  new  safety  summary  also  presents  an  update  on  reported 
deaths  that  occurred  until the  cut-off  date  of 30-September-2007.  Until  then,  a total  of 26  deaths  (2 
reported  prior  to  randomization)  had  been  reported  in  studies  of  sitagliptin  in  combination  with 
metformin. Of the 24 post-randomization deaths, 9 occurred in the sitagliptin group and 15 in a non-
sitagliptin group. Causes of death reported for more than 1 patient included:  
carcinomas (3 on glipizide, 1 on metformin) 
• 
•  myocardial infarctions (3 on glipizide) 
• 
• 
sudden cardiac death (1 on glipizide, 1 on placebo) 
accidental death (3 on sitagliptin, bicycle accident, fall/drowning and electrocution while mowing 
lawn) 
38/43
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
suicide (1 on pioglitazone, 1 on glipizide).  
No death was considered by the investigator to be drug-related. 
The observation that the hypoglycaemia rate is increased when sitagliptin is added to a SU agent was 
addressed  by  the  Applicant.  It  is  accepted  that  a  similar  observation  of  increased  hypoglycaemia 
incidence  is  made  when  other  AHA  agents  that  themselves  are  not  associated  with  hypoglycaemia 
(e.g.,  metformin  or  PPARγ  agents)  are  used  in  combination  with  a  SU  agent.    In  addition,  this 
increased hypoglycaemia incidence and rate may partly be due to the improved glycaemic control in 
sitagliptin compared to placebo treated patients. Most events were mild, i.e. did not require medical or 
non-medical  assistance  and  no  hypoglycaemic  event  of  marked  severity,  as  defined  in  the  studies, 
occurred  which  is  reassuring.  The  increased  incidence  of  hypoglycaemia  is  adequately  addressed  in 
section 4.8 of the proposed SPC.  
There was a concern that the limited efficacy of sitagliptin in combination with glimepiride could be 
due to the combination-induced hypoglycaemia that led to a reduction in the SU dose and thus to a 
decrease in efficacy. In other words, the combination may not have reached/sustained its full potency 
due  to  dose-limiting  side  effects.  The  Applicant  answered  that  down-titration  occurred  in  only 
approximately 2% of patients, and ranged from day 14 to day 99. Thus, down-titration of glimepiride 
due  to  hypoglycaemia  was  not  commonly  required.  This  is  consistent  with  the  observation  that  the 
hypoglycaemia  events  in  the  sitagliptin  group  were  generally  neither  recurrent  nor  severe. 
Hypoglycaemia  with  concomitant  SU  use  will  be  further  evaluated  in  a  3-4  year  clinical  trial 
committed to during the initial MA procedure of sitagliptin. 
In  agreement  with  previous  findings  from  the  sitagliptin  development  program,  there  was  no 
discernable increase in the  incidence  of  death  or  overall or specific  non-fatal  SAEs  when  sitagliptin 
was added to metformin or to a dual combination therapy of metformin and a SU agent. In addition, 
the  overall  rates  of  discontinuation  due  to  clinical  or  laboratory  AEs  were  low  and  similar  between 
sitagliptin  and  placebo  or  SU  treated  patients.  There  were  no  clear  treatment  differences  for 
discontinuations  due  to  specific  AEs  except  for  hypoglycaemia,  which  occurred  only  in  glipizide-
treated patients in Study P024. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Laboratory data from the new studies P035 and P036 are also in line with findings from previously 
submitted sitagliptin/metformin combination studies. 
Taken together, sitagliptin/ metformin dual combination therapy compared to metformin monotherapy 
was associated with small increases in uric acid and white blood cell count, WBC (ANC), and with 
small decreases in AP and possibly in ALT, AST, Hb and bilirubin. 
Sitagliptin/metformin/SU  triple  combination  therapy  compared  to  metformin/SU  dual  combination 
therapy (P035) was associated with small increases in WBC (ANC) but not uric acid, and with small 
decreases in ALT, AST, AP and Hb.  
Of  note,  neither  of  these  changes  is  considered  clinically  relevant.  In  addition,  there  are  indications 
that  the  observed  changes  in  these  parameters  may  be  largely  due  to  the  glycaemic  effects  of 
antihyperglycaemic medications rather than a direct effect of the study drugs. 
At the therapeutic dose of 100 mg per day, sitagliptin either alone or in combination with metformin 
does not appear to have a relevant effect on blood pressure or the conduction system of the heart. 
•  Safety in special populations 
No subgroup analyses of safety were performed for patients taking the combination of sitagliptin and 
metformin.  However, subgroup analyses by age, gender and race for the previously submitted overall 
Pooled Phase II/III Studies were presented. No clinically meaningful differences in the incidence of 
specific AEs by age, gender or race were observed 
 39/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metformin is contraindicated and sitagliptin is currently not recommended in patients with moderate 
to  severe  renal  failure.  Metformin  but  not  sitagliptin  is  licensed  for  use  in  paediatric  patients  with 
T2DM.  Therefore,  no  data  can  be  expected  for  the fixed  combination  sitagliptin/metformin  in  these 
populations. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Overall, the rates of discontinuation due to a clinical or laboratory AE were low and similar between 
sitagliptin and placebo or SU treated patients. There were few AEs that led to discontinuation in more 
than  one  patient,  i.e.  gastrointestinal  AEs,  hypoglycaemia,  urticaria,  increased  blood  creatinine,  or 
decreased creatinine clearance.  There were no clear treatment differences for discontinuations due to 
specific AEs except for hypoglycaemia: all 6 cases occurred in a glipizide group. 
2.5 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine and additional) 
Lactic acidosis 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Clinical Trials: 
1. Ongoing Trials: P024-01, and 
P036-10 
2. Completed Trials - Study Report 
Pending: P020-04, P035-01, and 
P036-04 
3. Planned Trial: A planned 3-4 year 
study to monitor safety in patients 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
inadequately controlled on maximum 
tolerated doses of metformin or a 
PPARγ agonist 
Hypoglycaemia with 
concomitant sulfonylurea  
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Clinical Trials: 
1. Ongoing Trials: P024-01, and 
P036-10 
2. Completed Trials - Study Report 
Pending: P020-04, P035-01, and 
P036-04 
3. Planned Trial: A planned 3-4 year 
study to monitor safety in patients 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
inadequately controlled on maximum 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities (routine and additional) 
Labeling-SPC Section 4.4 Special 
warnings and precautions for use:   
Lactic acidosis is a very rare, but 
serious (high mortality in the 
absence of prompt treatment), 
metabolic complication that can 
occur due to metformin 
accumulation. Reported cases of 
lactic acidosis in patients on 
metformin have occurred primarily 
in diabetic patients with significant 
renal failure. The incidence of 
lactic acidosis can and should be 
reduced by also assessing other 
associated risk factors such as 
poorly controlled diabetes, ketosis, 
prolonged fasting, excessive 
alcohol intake, hepatic 
insufficiency and any conditions 
associated with hypoxia. 
Labeling-SPC Section 4.4 Special 
warnings and precautions for use: 
Hypoglycaemia 
Patients receiving Velmetia in 
combination with a sulphonylurea 
may be at risk for hypoglycaemia. 
Therefore, a reduction in the dose 
of the sulphonylurea may be 
necessary.  
 40/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tolerated doses of metformin or a 
PPARγ agonist 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6 Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
There are no unresolved quality issues, which may affect the Benefit/Risk balance.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  pharmacology  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  has  been  investigated  for  each  drug  separately.  No 
primary or secondary pharmacology studies of the combination were conducted, which was found to 
be  acceptable  by  the  CHMP.  Specific  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  not  performed  either, 
however,  ECG  recording  were  performed  during  the  repeated-dose  toxicology  studies  of  the 
combination,  not  revealing  any  treatment-related  effects.  Overall,  the  general  pharmacology  studies 
corroborate  the  information  previously  available  for  the  individual  components  and  support  the 
combined use. 
From  the  pharmacokinetic  standpoint,  specific  studies  on  the  combination  were  not  performed. 
Interaction studies for the triple combination with a sulphonylurea were not considered necessary as 
clinically  no  relevant  concerns  were  discovered  regarding  the  safety  of  the  combination  of 
sitagliptin/metformin with glimepiride. 
The combination studies with sitagliptin and metformin in dogs indicated no evidence of toxicokinetic 
or toxicologic interactions. No non-clinical studies were performed for the combination of sitagliptin / 
metformin  with  a  sulphonylurea,  however,  sitagliptin,  metformin  and  sulphonylurea  have  different 
toxicity  profiles,  and  therefore  interactions  do  not  seem  likely.  Furthermore,  clinically,  no  relevant 
concerns  were  discovered  regarding  the  safety  of  the  combination  of  sitagliptin/metformin  with 
glimepiride. 
Efficacy 
Demonstration  of  bioequivalence  (BE)  of  the  sitagliptin/metformin  FDC  tablets  and  its  active 
components  given  as  individual  tablets  is  important  to  extrapolate  the  efficacy  and  safety  results 
obtained  with  the  sitagliptin  and  metformin  co-administration  studies  to  the  FDC  (no  phase  II/II 
studies  have  been  performed  using  the  FDC)  and  to  ensure  that  T2DM  patients  already  taking 
metformin (and sitagliptin) can be safely and effectively switched to the FDC tablets. 
Demonstration of BE is also of prime importance as the applicant did not submit a full PK dossier with 
all  required  studies  but  instead  referred  to  the  results  of  the  individual  dossiers  of  sitagliptin  and 
metformin. 
The  Applicant  submitted  two  BE  studies,  particularly  study  P048  and  study  P095.  Study  P095 
established  bioequivalence  between  the  sitagliptin  component  of  Velmetia  and  sitagliptin  given  as 
individual  tablet.  Bioequivalence  study  P095,  performed  with  the  European  reference  product 
Glucophage  for  metformin  was  submitted  later  upon  CHMP  request  together  with  additional 
dissolution  studies.  The  results  of  this  study  clearly  demonstrate  that  with  respect  to  metformin  all 
strengths  of  Velmetia  are  bioequivalent  with  Glucophage.  The  half-lives  and  tmax  values  were  also 
comparable. 
 41/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The previously submitted studies P020 and P024 as well as the new studies P035 and P036 support the 
already  approved  uses  of  sitagliptin  in  combination  with  metformin  and  triple  combination  of 
sitagliptin + metformin + SU.  
The  significant  and  clinically  relevant  effect  of  sitagliptin  added  to  the  regimen  of  patients  with 
inadequate  glycaemic  control  on  metformin  monotherapy  (as  observed  in  P020  and  P024)  was 
numerically  smaller  than  the  effect  of  sitagliptin  on  glycaemic  control  in  patients  insufficiently 
controlled on the combination of SU and metformin (P035).  This effect was also numerically larger 
than  that  observed  with  the  addition  of  sitagliptin  in  patients  insufficiently  controlled  on  SU 
monotherapy. The combination therapy of sitagliptin with a SU is already approved, hence, the triple 
therapy  of  sitagliptin,  metformin  and  a  SU,  applied  for  in  the  current  application  for  the  FDC,  is 
considered acceptable based on the presented efficacy data. 
Although the current dose recommendation for sitagliptin is 100 mg taken as a single daily dose (QD), 
the  previous  study  P014  (submitted  with  the  initial  MAA  for  sitagliptin)  showed  that  efficacy  and 
safety of a daily dose of 100 mg is similar when given either as a single dose or divided into two daily 
doses. Therefore,  the  content  of  50  mg  sitagliptin in the  proposed  FDC  tablets  resulting  in  a  50  mg 
twice daily (BID) dosing is acceptable.  
The  lowest  proposed  strength,  i.e.  50mg/500mg,  was  not  considered  acceptable.  The  minimal 
metformin dose assessed in studies P020 and P024 was 1500 mg per day; the efficacy of metformin in 
reducing  T2DM  complications  was  demonstrated  in  UKPDS  34,  in  which  a  great  majority  of  the 
patients were treated with metformin doses >1700 mg per day. Although there might be a minority of 
patients who cannot tolerate metformin at doses higher than 1000 mg, it is unlikely that the FDC tablet 
offers  a  meaningful  benefit  compared  to  the administration  of  the  separate  components.  In  addition, 
the  low  dose  FDC  tablet  could  promote  initial  combination  therapy  which  is  not  approved  and  not 
covered by current diabetes treatment guidelines. Therefore, the approval of the 50/500 mg tablet is 
not recommended and the Applicant has withdrawn the application for this strength.  
Safety 
Overall,  it  can  be  concluded  that,  based  on  the  submitted  data,  sitagliptin  in  combination  with 
metformin and/or SU agent has an acceptable safety profile. Based on previous safety assessment it 
was  concluded  that  sitagliptin  treatment  is  associated  with  an  increased  incidence  in  infections  and 
infestations, gastrointestinal disorders, musculoskeletal disorders, and nervous system AEs. Event rate 
was increased for skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders. These AEs have been included in the SPC 
and the RMP.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
The results from the readability testing were submitted at the time of the response package at Day 121. 
The test included sufficient questions about the critical sections and the results were satisfactory, i.e. 
90% of the participants were able to find the information and of those 90% were able to adequately 
express the information in their own words. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits  
 42/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The submitted Phase II/III studies, the previously submitted studies P015, P020 and P024 as well as 
the new studies P035 and P036, support the use of sitagliptin in combination with metformin, either as 
dual  combination  therapy  or  as  triple  combination  therapy  with  a  sulfonylurea  agent  (both  already 
approved for sitagliptin). The results also suggest that the glucose-lowering potential of sitagliptin per 
se is lower than that of high-dose metformin but nevertheless clinically moderate and relevant.  
Given the observation that the efficacy of sitagliptin appears optimal in combination with metformin, 
the  lack  of  relevant  PK  interactions  of  these  two  drugs,  and  the  fact  that  combination  therapy  with 
metformin  (add-on  to  metformin)  is  already  approved,  the  development  of  a  FDC  combination  is 
acceptable. The FDC tablets may improve compliance due to the reduced daily tablet load in patients 
with T2DM usually taking a variety of medicinal products.  
Although the current dose recommendation for sitagliptin is 100 mg taken as a single daily dose, the 
previous study P014 (submitted with the initial MAA for sitagliptin) showed that efficacy and safety 
of a daily dose of 100 mg is similar when given either as a single dose or divided into two daily doses. 
Therefore,  the  content  of  50  mg  sitagliptin  in  the  proposed  FDC  tablets  resulting  in  a  50  mg  twice 
daily dosing is acceptable.  
Metformin  causes  GI  side  effects  such  as  nausea,  diarrhoea  and  abdominal  pain  in  a  substantial 
number  of  patients.  Consequently,  the  tolerated  maximum  daily  dose  varies  among  patients. 
Therefore, the proposed dose strengths of Velmetia including 50/850 (mg/mg) and 50/1000 (mg/mg) 
of sitagliptin/metformin, respectively, are reasonable and acceptable.  
The  results  of  the  pivotal  bioequivalence  studies  (P048  and  P095)  clearly  demonstrate  that,  with 
respect to the sitagliptin and metformin component, all three strengths of Velmetia are bioequivalent 
with Januvia and Glucophage, respectively.  
Risks  
When  combining  sitagliptin  with  metformin  and/or  SU,  the  only  remarkable  issue  was  that  the 
incidence of hypoglycaemia was increased compared to placebo when sitagliptin was added to a SU. 
No such increase was seen with the combination of sitagliptin with metformin. However, none of the 
hypoglycaemia episodes met criteria for marked severity or required medical attention, and no patients 
were  discontinued  due  to  hypoglycaemia.  The  updated  safety  summaries  do  not  elicit  new  safety 
concerns. 
Balance 
The overall risk benefit ratio of Velmetia 50 mg/850 mg and 50 mg/1000mg is considered positive. 
The proposed indications are considered acceptable. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Velmetia in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus as an 
adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in patients inadequately controlled on their 
maximal  tolerated  dose  of  metformin  alone  or  those  already  being  treated  with  the  combination  of 
sitagliptin and metformin; or in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e., triple combination therapy) as 
an adjunct to diet and exercise in patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of 
metformin  and  a  sulphonylurea,  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
 43/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
