European Medicines Agency 
London, 02 June 2009 
Doc. Ref: EMEA/352228/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
VELMETIA 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
Sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/862/II/0004 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68  
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Sitagliptin  phosphate  is  an  orally  active,  selective  inhibitor  of  the  enzyme  dipeptidyl  peptidase  4 
(DPP-4). DPP-4 inhibitors act by enhancing the levels of active incretin hormones. These hormones, 
including glucagon-like peptide-1 and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide, are released from 
the  intestine  in  response  to  a  meal  and  are  part  of  an  endogenous  system  involved  in  glucose 
homeostasis. 
Sitagliptin was approved for marketing in the EU in 2007 and currently has therapeutic indications as 
a second line treatment for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) to be used in combination 
with metformin, a PPAR-γ agonist, or a sulphonylurea (alone or in combination with metformin). 
This variation was filed to extend the indication for patients with T2DM in whom the use of a PPARγ 
agonist  (i.e.  a  thiazolidinedione)  is  appropriate,  to  be  used  in  triple  combination  with  the  PPARγ 
agonist  and  metformin  when  diet  and  exercise  plus  dual  therapy  with  these  agents  do  not  provide 
adequate glycaemic control. 
In  support  of  this  extension  of  the  indication  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  has 
presented  the  results  of  a  54-weeks  efficacy  and  safety  study  (P052).  This  was  a  Phase  III  clinical 
study designed to assess the glycaemic efficacy and tolerability of sitagliptin added to the combination 
of metformin and rosiglitazone compared with placebo in patients with inadequate glycaemic control 
on dual combination therapy. 18-week results of this study were already presented in April 2008 as a 
Follow-up Measure.  
Changes to sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1 of the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) have 
been proposed to reflect the results of this study.  
In  addition,  a  minor  revision  to  Section  5.1  of  the  SPC  was  proposed  to  include  two  sentences  to 
describe  the  effects  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  on  GLP-1  concentrations.   These  GLP-1  data  have 
been reviewed by the CHMP in a previous submission. An update of section 4.9 (overdose) of the SPC 
was also proposed to include data from a Phase-I multiple dose study. 
2. 
Non-Clinical aspects 
Environmental risk assessment (ERA) 
The ERA submitted for the active ingredient sitagliptin is an updated version of the ERA submitted by 
the MAH in the dossier for Velmetia (EMEA/H/C/0862).  
In Phase I the MAH calculated a PECsurface  water of 0.5 µg/L for sitagliptin under the assumption of a 
Fpen of 1%, which is above the trigger of 0.01 µg/L. As the PECsurface  water is larger than 10 ng/l, the 
MAH  has  provided  an  environmental  risk  assessment  according  to  Phase  II  of  the  guideline  on  the 
environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products  for  human  use  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00, 
June 2006). 
Sitagliptin  is  not  susceptible  to  photodegradation.  The  substance  is  hydrolytically  stable.  The  MAH 
stated  a  Kow  of  0.6,  and  the  respective  study  is  missing.  Provided  that  this  Kow  is  valid  there  is  no 
indication of a bioaccumulation potential. The Koc is less than 10,000 (logKoc = 2.88). Therefore, an 
evaluation of the risk to the terrestrial compartment is not required.  
Sitagliptin is not readily biodegradable. The MAH submitted the results of a test on the aerobic and 
anaerobic  transformation  in  aquatic  sediment  systems  according  to  OECD  308.  In  both  aerobic  and 
anaerobic  conditions,  there  is  a  shifting  of  parent  to  sediment  of  >10%  on  day  14.  Therefore,  a 
prolonged sediment toxicity with Chironomus riparius has been performed. The results show that the 
PECsed/PNEC was below 1, thus, no risk for sediment dwelling organism is expected. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  has  submitted  data  on  the  ecotoxicity  of  sitagliptin.  The  comparison  of  the  predicted 
concentration  in  surface  water  with  the  predicted  no-effect  concentration  did  not  result  in  risk 
quotients above 1 (for algae, fish and water flea) or 0.1 (for micro-organisms). The PECground  water to 
PNECdaphnia  risk  quotient  is  also  below  1.  The  MAH  did  not  provide  data  on  the  PECsediment  but 
stated that the results suggested that the drug substance is not toxic to sediment organisms.  
The results for toxicity to algae were obtained from a test performed in 2004 in accordance with the 
OECD  guideline  for  the  Algae  Growth  Inhibition Test  (OECD  201,  1984  Version).    The  study  was 
conducted in accordance and in full compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) regulations for 
tests of substances as promulgated by the OECD Guidelines for Testing of Chemicals (OECD, 1998). 
A new algae test has been completed in June 2009, according to the most recent version of OECD 201. 
Environmental properties of sitagliptin phosphate are given in the table below.  
Sitagliptin phosphate mono hydrate 
CAS: 654671-77-9 
PBT assessment 
P: Issue not resolved 
yet 
B: no  
T: no 
Physical-chemical properties 
Log Kow 
- 0.25 
pH 7 
pKa 
Water solubility 
Molecular mass 
Melting point 
7.7 
42.2 mg/ml 
523.32 g/mol 
Decomposition at 
about 220 °C 
pH 7.1; 22 °C 
Citation, study report 
is missing 
Environmental fate and behaviour 
Adsorption 
Degradation 
HPLC method 
Zahn-Wellens/EMPA 
Test 
Hydrolysis 
Photolysis 
Aerobic and 
anaerobic 
transformation in 
aquatic sediment 
systems 
Kd 
- 
Not biodegradable 
Koc 
759 
pH 7, 25 °C, 
extrapolated 
295 – 800 nm 
Citation,  study report 
is missing 
Dt50 = 895 d 
none 
Aerobic system:  
dt50 = 6.5 d (water) 
dt50 = 138.6 d (whole 
system) 
Sediment extracts: 
60.5-65.1% parent  at 
d 103 
Bound residues: 
26.6-28.7% at d 103 
Volatiles: 1.8% - 
2.2% at d 103 
Anaerobic system: 
dt50 = 20.9 d (water) 
dt50 = 266.5 d (whole 
system) 
Sediment extracts: 
76.9-78.4% parent at 
d 103 
Bound residues: 
13.5-14.6%  at d 103 
Volatiles: <0.1% d 
103 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ecotoxicological information 
Pseudokirchneriella 
subcapitata 
Daphnia magna 
Pimephales promelas 
Chironomus riparius 
Activated sludge 
respiration inhibition 
test 
Duration 
72 h 
21 d 
33 d 
28 d 
3 h 
Criterion 
NOEC 
NOEC 
NOEC 
NOEC 
NOEC 
Value [mg/l] 
Test not valid, results 
not plausible 
9.8 
9.2 
500 mg/kg; not 
validated yet. 
Citation,  study report 
is missing 
≥ 150 
The MAH has committed to perform and submit the results of an algae growth inhibition test (OECD 
201) by July 2009.  
3. 
Clinical aspects 
3.1 
A) 
Clinical efficacy 
Main study/Methods 
Study  P052  was  a  multicenter,  multinational,  double-blind,  randomized,  parallel-group,  54-week 
Phase III study to compare the efficacy and safety of sitagliptin 100 mg with placebo in patients with 
T2DM who had inadequate glycaemic control on combination therapy with metformin (at a dose of 
≥1500 mg/day) and rosiglitazone (at a dose of ≥4 mg/day). Patients with T2DM on dual combination 
therapy  with  metformin  and  a  PPARγ  agonist,  a  PPARγ  agonist  and  a  sulfonylurea  agent,  or 
metformin and a sulfonylurea agent were eligible.  
Male and female patients who were between 18 and 78 years old with inadequate glycaemic control 
(HbA1c  ≥7.5%  and  ≤11%)  when  on  dual  combination  therapy  with  metformin  at  a  dose  of  ≥1500 
mg/day  and  rosiglitazone  at  a  dose  of  ≥4  mg/day  (either  at  study  entry  or  after  a  wash-off/dose-
titration/dose-stable  period  -see  study  design  below-)  were  randomized  in  a  2:1  ratio  to  either 
sitagliptin 100 mg or matching placebo. Patients were on a stable dose of metformin and rosiglitazone 
for  at  least  12  weeks  prior  to  randomisation.  Dosing  regimen  for  open-label  metformin  and 
rosiglitazone was to remain stable for the duration of the study. Sites conducted a patient telephone 
contact midway between each clinic visit to reinforce diet/exercise and to review study therapy dosing 
instruction. Patients not meeting specific glycaemic goals were to receive rescue therapy with an open-
label sulfonylurea (SU), primarily glipizide. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Design of study P052 
Patients with T2DM, 
Patients with T2DM, 
Age 18 - 78 years:
Age 18 - 78 years:
• On ROSI ≥ 4 mg/day or 
• On ROSI ≥ 4 mg/day or 
PIO ≥ 30 mg/day and
PIO ≥ 30 mg/day and
metformin ≥ 1500 mg/day
metformin ≥ 1500 mg/day
HbA1c 7.5 – 11% 
HbA1c 7.5 – 11% 
•On SU/metformin or 
•On SU/metformin or 
SU/PPARγ with 
SU/PPARγ with 
HbA1c 7.5 – 11% 
HbA1c 7.5 – 11% 
On ROSI < 4 mg/day or 
On ROSI < 4 mg/day or 
PIO < 30 mg/day and
PIO < 30 mg/day and
metformin < 1500 mg/day 
metformin < 1500 mg/day 
HbA1c ≥ % 8%
HbA1c ≥ % 8%
Progressive glycemic rescue criteria implemented:
Progressive glycemic rescue criteria implemented:
FPG >280 mg/dL Day 1 through Week 9
FPG >280 mg/dL Day 1 through Week 9
FPG >240 mg/dl Week 9 through Week 24
FPG >240 mg/dl Week 9 through Week 24
After week 24: HbA1c >8.5%
After week 24: HbA1c >8.5%
6-week dose 
6-week dose 
stable period 
stable period 
combined 
combined 
Visit 3/4
Visit 3/4
ROSI or 
ROSI or 
metformin 
metformin 
titration 
titration 
period
period
Dose-
Dose-
stable 
stable 
period*
period*
Sitagliptin 100-mg q.d.
Sitagliptin 100-mg q.d.
Single-
Single-
blind 
blind 
Pbo.
Pbo.
R
R
Placebo
Placebo
D/C 
D/C 
other 
other 
AHA
AHA
HbA1c 7.5 – 11% at or just prior to visit 4
HbA1c 7.5 – 11% at or just prior to visit 4
Stable doses of rosiglitazone ≥ 4 mg and metformin ≥ 1500 mg
Stable doses of rosiglitazone ≥ 4 mg and metformin ≥ 1500 mg
Screening 
Screening 
Period
Period
Run-In Period
Run-In Period
Double-blind Treatment Period 
Double-blind Treatment Period 
Visit 1 
Visit 1 
Screening
Screening
Visit 2  
Visit 2  
Run-in 
Run-in 
period
period
Visit 3
Visit 3
Wk -6
Wk -6
Visit 4    
Visit 4    
Pbo. run-in 
Pbo. run-in 
period      
period      
Wk -2
Wk -2
Visit 5
Visit 5
Day 1
Day 1
Randomization
Randomization
Visit 8 
Visit 8 
Wk 18
Wk 18
Visit 14    
Visit 14    
Wk 54
Wk 54
* Visit 2 to Visit 4 dose-stable period of variable duration depending on if patient on PPARγ at Visit 1, and on Visit 1 HbA1c
* Visit 2 to Visit 4 dose-stable period of variable duration depending on if patient on PPARγ at Visit 1, and on Visit 1 HbA1c
(see Section E.2.).
(see Section E.2.).
AHA = antihyperglycemic agent; R=randomization; SU=sulfonylurea 
AHA = antihyperglycemic agent; R=randomization; SU=sulfonylurea 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  change  from  baseline  in  HbA1c;  2-hour  post-meal  glucose 
(PMG)  after  a  standard  meal  challenge,  and  fasting  plasma  glucose  (FPG)  were  key  secondary 
endpoints.  Other  secondary  endpoints/objectives  included  the  proportion  of  patients  meeting 
glycaemic goals and glucose, insulin, proinsulin, and C-peptide levels obtained during a 3-point meal 
tolerance  test  (MTT).  This  study  has  been  completed  and  data  from  the  54  weeks  (double  blind) 
treatment period are reviewed. 
The  medical risk  of  inadequate  glycaemic  control  was  considered  and  efforts to  limit  this risk  were 
implemented in this protocol. To ensure that patients were not exposed to poorer control for an undue 
period of time, strict glycaemic rescue and discontinuation criteria were included in the study design.  
The population studied in P052 was the one using sitagliptin as add-on therapy to dual combination 
therapy with metformin and a PPARγ agonist (rosiglitazone) in the clinical setting. The entry criteria, 
as  well  as  a  worldwide  enrolment  of  the  study,  supported  the  inclusion  of  a  broad  range  of  adult 
patients with T2DM, with a variety of racial backgrounds and across the usual age range of patients 
with this disease. 
While  patients  with  unstable  medical  conditions,  such  as  active  liver  disease,  and  patients  with 
medical conditions that limited the use of metformin (e.g., moderate to severe renal insufficiency) or 
rosiglitazone (e.g., NYHA Class II-IV heart failure) were excluded from participation, patients with a 
wide range of concurrent medical conditions and concomitant medications were included. The study 
allowed  for  the  inclusion  of  older  patients  (≥65  years)  with  T2DM,  while  patients  <18  years  were 
excluded. 
Patients  could  be  switched  and  titrated  from  their  own  therapy  to  metformin  and  PPARγ  agonist.  
For  metformin,  the  washout/titration  period  of  12  weeks  would  be  long  enough  to  measure  the 
therapeutic effect. However, the CHMP questioned whether the maximum therapeutic effect would be 
achieved in this titration period for the PPARγ agonist and considered that more time might be needed 
to measure the maximum therapeutic effect of the PPARγ agonist.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
Furthermore,  a  higher  proportion  of  patients in the  placebo  group had  been  on combination  therapy 
with a PPARγ agonist and metformin (60.9%), relative to the sitagliptin group (48.8%), while in the 
sitagliptin group a higher proportion of patients had been on combination therapy with a sulfonylurea 
and metformin (48.2%), relative to the placebo group (37%). If the therapeutic effect of the PPARγ 
agonist lasts longer than the 12 week period, then this will favour the results in the Sitagliptin group. 
The CHMP requested during its January 2009 plenary meeting that the MAH should demonstrate that 
the maximum time period of the achieved therapeutic effect of a PPARγ agonist is 12 weeks. 
In response to the CHMP concerns, the MAH showed data of the placebo group in which patients who 
were on a PPARγ agonist at screening had a slightly greater HbA1c response at Week 18. The change 
in  baseline  after  Week  54  was  also  comparable  between  the  patients  who  were  on  PPARγ  agonist 
treatment and the patients who were not on PPARγ agonist therapy at screening. Furthermore, there 
was  a  non-significant  (p=0.251)  covariate  effect  of  diabetes  pharmacotherapy  at  screening  on  the 
HbA1c change from baseline. This data suggests that the HbA1c decrease in the sitagliptin group in 
the P052 Study is not caused by the higher proportion of patients in the sitagliptin group who were not 
on  a  PPARγ  agonist  at  screening.  The  small  change  in  HbA1c  from  baseline is  more  likely  to  be  a 
direct effect of sitagliptin. 
GCP 
The  clinical  trial  was  performed  in  accordance  with  GCP  as  claimed  by  the  MAH.  The  MAH  has 
provided a statement to the effect that the clinical trial, which included sites outside the community, 
was carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
B) 
Results 
B.1. 
Patient disposition, baseline data and demographics 
A total of 742 patients were screened, from which 464 were screen failures. The most common reason 
for  not  being  randomised  was  failure  to  meet  HbA1c  inclusion  criteria  (46.8%  of  patients  not 
randomized).  The  next  most  common  reason  for  patients  not  being  randomized  was  because  of 
laboratory  values  (other  than  HbA1c)  meeting  protocol  exclusion  criteria  (17.7%  of  patients  not 
randomized).  These  included  the  following  parameters:  creatinine  ≥  1.4  mg/dL  (123.8  µmol/L)  for 
males or ≥ 1.3 mg/dL (114.9 µmol/L) for females, an elevated ALT or AST >2-fold the upper limit of 
normal (ULN), TSH <0.3 mIU/L or >5 mIU/L, or triglycerides >600 mg/dL (6.78 mmol/L). 
Two hundred seventy eight (278) patients with T2DM with inadequate glycaemic control on a PPARγ 
agonist  (rosiglitazone)  in  combination  with  metformin  were  randomized  in  the  study  at  41  sites 
worldwide.  One  study  site  was  identified  as  non-compliant  with  some  of  the  requirements  of  Good 
Clinical Practice (GCP). For this reason, the patient data from the 16 patients randomized at that site 
were deemed unreliable and were removed from all analyses (efficacy and safety). This concerns 11 
patients  in  the  sitagliptin  group  and  5  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  Therefore,  the  analyses  were 
performed on a total of 262 randomised patients. 
A  high  number  of  patients  were  screened.  However,  many  patients  were  excluded,  mainly  because 
they  were  ineligible.  Therefore,  the  resulted  population  is  a  highly  selected  patient  group  on  dual 
therapy.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Patient Accounting in the Analysis of HbA1c at Week 18 
A total of 219 (83.6%) patients completed the study. A higher percentage of patients completed the 
study  in  the  sitagliptin  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group.  Reasons  for  discontinuation  were 
generally  similar  between  treatment  groups  with  a  higher  percentage  of  patients  in  the  placebo 
treatment group discontinuing due to lack of efficacy. During the conduct of this study, a report was 
published suggesting an association of rosiglitazone with an increased risk of cardiovascular events; 
subsequently, seven patients (3 patients in the sitagliptin treatment group (1.7%) and 4 patients in the 
placebo treatment group (4.3%) discontinued due to concerns over the use of rosiglitazone).  
Demographic  and  anthropometric  traits  were  generally  similar  across  treatment  groups.  In  addition, 
baseline disease characteristics, including duration of disease, and baseline HbA1c and FPG were also 
similar across treatment groups. 
The  mean  age  of  the  randomized  population  was  54.5  years,  57.6%  were  males,  mean  duration  of 
diabetes was 9.3 years, and the mean baseline HbA1c was 8.8%. There were more Asian (34.1%) in 
the  sitaglipitin  group  then  in  the  placebo  group  (26.1%)  and  more  Hispanic  in  the  placebo  (10.9%) 
than in the sitaglipitin group (7.6%). 
At study entry, all patients were on dual combination therapy with: a PPARγ agonist and metformin, a 
sulfonylurea and metformin, or a PPARγ agonist and a sulphonylurea, as required by the protocol.  
Of the randomized patients 23.4% had baseline HbA1c values <8.0% and 43.3% had baseline HbA1c 
values ≥9.0%. 
Two hundred and fifty-nine (98.9%) of the 262 randomized patients had at least 1 secondary diagnosis 
other  than  T2DM.  Metabolism  and  nutrition  disorders,  vascular  disorders,  musculoskeletal  and 
connective tissue disorders and nervous system disorders were the most common categories by SOC 
of secondary diagnoses.  
The  most  common  specific  secondary  diagnoses  were  hypertension  (sitagliptin  63.5%  vs  59.8%  in 
in  placebo  group), 
placebo  group),  hypercholesterolaemia 
hyperlipidaemia  (sitagliptin  22.9%  vs  27.2%  in  placebo  group),  dyslipidaemia  (sitagliptin  24.1%  vs 
19.6%  in  placebo  group  and  obesity  (sitagliptin  19.4%  vs  18.5%  in  placebo  group).  There  were  no 
clinically  important  differences  among  treatment  groups  in  the  frequency  or  type  of  secondary 
diagnoses. 
(sitagliptin  24.1%  vs  19.6% 
All of the 262 randomized patients had prior therapies (i.e., took at least 1 medication from 30 days 
prior to the screening visit [Visit 1] up until the day before randomization). The most common prior 
drug  therapeutic  categories  in  the  sitagliptin  and  placebo  treatment  groups  were  drugs  used  for 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
diabetes,  agents  acting  on  the  renin-angiotensin  system,  serum  lipid-reducing  agents  and  analgesics. 
There were no clinically important differences between treatment groups. 
Two hundred and fifteen (82.1%) patients took concomitant therapies (i.e., took at least 1 medication 
post-randomization).  The  most  common  concomitant  drug  therapeutic  categories  were  for  anti-
bacterials for systemic use, analgesics, and anti-inflammatory and anti-rheumatic products. There were 
no  meaningful  differences  between  treatment  groups  in  the  use  of  concomitant  medications  post-
randomization. 
B.2.  HbA1c reduction (primary endpoint) 
•  Primary Endpoint HbA1c at Week 18  
Table 2 displays Week 18 HbA1c results for the Full Analysis Set (FAS) population. The reduction 
observed  with  sitagliptin  was  statistically  significantly  greater  than  that  observed  with  placebo.  
The analysis of HbA1c conducted in the completers population at Week 18 supported the conclusion 
for the primary analysis. 
Table 2: Analysis of Change from Baseline in HbA1c (%) at Week 18 (Full Analysis Set) 
•  Secondary Analysis Endpoint: HbA1c at Week 54 
Consistent with the analysis at Week 18, a significantly greater reduction from baseline in HbA1c was 
observed at Week 54 with sitagliptin relative to that observed with placebo (nominal p<0.001, Table 
3). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Analysis of Change from Baseline in HbA1c (%) at Week 54 (Full Analysis Set) 
The analysis of HbA1c conducted in the completers population at Week 54 showed a greater reduction 
from  baseline  as  compared  with  the  analysis  of  the  FAS  population  within  both  the  sitagliptin  and 
placebo  groups. The  between  group  difference in the least squares  (LS)  mean  change  from  baseline 
was smaller in the completers population than in the FAS population and was no longer statistically 
significant.  It  is  noted,  however,  that  the  completers  population  was  defined  by  post-randomization 
events:  many  more  placebo  patients  than  sitagliptin  patients  underwent  glycaemic  rescue  or 
discontinued, and as a result, the baseline HbA1c level of the placebo group was lower than the one of 
the sitagliptin group. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
The  profile  of  LS  mean  changes  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  over  time  (Figure  2)  shows  a  progressive 
reduction that reached a plateau at Week 24 in the sitagliptin group and remained stable through Week 
54. In the placebo group, there was a reduction at Week 6 in LS mean change from baseline, which 
remained stable through Week 54. 
Figure 2: LS Mean Change from Baseline in HbA1c (%) Over Time (LS Mean ± SE) by Treatment Group 
(Full Analysis Set) 
The CHMP concurred that there is a significant HbA1c reduction in the sitagliptin group compared to 
placebo at week 18 and week 54 in the FAS analysis set and in the completers analysis. 
•  HbA1c Goal < 7%  
The results of analysis of proportions of patients with Week 18 HbA1c values below 7.0% are shown 
in  Table  4  in  the  FAS  population.  The  odds  of  achieving  a  Week  18  HbA1c  level  <7.0%  were 
statistically significantly higher in the sitagliptin group than in the placebo group (nominal p=0.003). 
The results of the analyses of HbA1c goal attainment of <7.0% at Week 54 (Table 5) or at both Week 
18 and Week 54 (Table 6) are consistent with the results observed at Week 18. The same conclusions 
can be drawn for the results of analyses for the completers population.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Proportion of Patients with HbA1c Value < 7.0% and < 6.5% at Week 18 (Full Analysis Set) 
Treatment  
Sitagliptin 100 mg  
Placebo  
HbA1c <7% 
N  
168  
88  
n (%)  
37 (22.0)  
8 (9.1)  
Between Treatment Comparison  
Difference in Proportion (%)  
Odds-Ratio‡  
p-Value‡ 
(95% CI†) 
(95% CI) 
Sitagliptin 100 mg vs. Placebo  
12.9 (3.3, 21.1)  
3.85 (1.58, 9.37)  
0.003 
Sitagliptin 100 mg  
Placebo  
HbA1c < 6.5% 
168  
88  
12 (7.1)  
4 (4.5)  
Between Treatment Comparison  
Difference in Proportion (%)  
(95% CI†)  
Odds-Ratio‡  
p-Value‡ 
(95% CI)  
Sitagliptin 100 mg vs. Placebo  
† Confidence Interval computed using the Wilson score method  
‡ From the logistic regression model, adjusting for baseline HbA1c and prior anti-hyperglycaemic medication status  
1.86 (0.56, 6.17)  
2.6 (-4.6, 8.2)  
0.309  
CI = Confidence Interval.  
Table 5: Proportion of Patients with HbA1c Value < 7.0% at Week 54  (Full Analysis Set and Completers) 
Treatment  
Sitagliptin 100 mg  
Placebo  
Treatment  
Sitagliptin 100 mg  
Placebo  
Full Analysis Set: HbA1c < 7% 
N  
168  
88  
Completers: HbA1c < 7% 
N  
114  
40  
n (%) 
44 (26.2) 
12 (13.6) 
n (%) 
37 (32.5) 
11 (27.5) 
Table 6: Proportion of Patients with HbA1c Value < 7.0% at Week 18 and Week 54 (Full Analysis Set) 
Treatment  
Sitagliptin 100 mg  
Placebo  
N  
168  
88  
n (%) 
25 (14.9) 
5 (5.7) 
The baseline HbA1c value was a significant covariate (p<0.001) because patients with higher baseline 
values  tended  to  have  greater  reduction  in  HbA1c  from  baseline.  However,  there  were  no  apparent 
differences in the between treatment effects across the different baseline HbA1c levels.  
The results of analysis of proportions of patients with HbA1c values below 7.0% at week 18, at week 
54  and  week  18  and  54  show  a  lot  of  variation.  Only  14.9%  of  the  patients  in  the  sitagliptin  group 
showed a HbA1c < 7% at both visits. The CHMP, during its January 2009 meeting requested that the 
MAH should explain these results. The CHMP also requested that the MAH should demonstrate the 
complete statistical values like it was done for the 18 weeks at week 54 and week 18 and week 54. 
In its responses to the CHMP request, the MAH argued that the percentages of patients at the HbA1c 
goal of <7.0% was statistically significant higher in the sitagliptin group compared with the placebo 
group  at  Week  18  and  at  Week  54.  Similarly,  the  difference  between  groups  in  the  percentage  of 
patients meeting this goal at both Week 18 and Week 54 was also statistically significant in favour of 
sitagliptin. Although some patients on sitagliptin who met the HbA1c <7.0% goal at Week 18 did not 
meet this goal at Week 54 (n=12; 7.1%), a larger number of patients (n=19; 11.3%) who did not meet 
the goal at Week 18 did meet the goal at Week 54.  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  further  justified  that  there  is  a  relation  (correlation  coefficient  =  0.70,  p<0.001)  between 
results at Week 18 and Week 54. This is consistent with the maximum effect occurring at or near the 
Week 18 time point. 
On the view of the results the CHMP was of the opinion that the effect of sitagliptin on HbA1c level 
goal <7.0% is modest; although differences are statistically significant, confidence intervals are very 
wide. Nevertheless, the CHMP agreed that there might be patients who can benefit from addition of 
sitagliptin to metformin and pioglitazone. 
A relatively high proportion of patients had high baseline HbA1c values in this population. The results 
of the summary statistics for HbA1c change by HbA1c at baseline at week 18 are shown in Table 7. 
Table 7: 
The Week 54 data were additionally submitted by the MAH. The HbA1c level decrease was greater 
with higher baseline HbA1c levels. These results were in line with the Week 18 data. 
B.3. 
Secondary Endpoints 
•  Two-Hour Post-Meal Glucose (2-hour PMG) at week 18 
Table 8 displays 2-hour PMG results for the FAS population at Week 18. Decreases in 2-hour PMG 
relative to baseline were observed in both groups, with a statistically significantly greater decrease in 
the sitagliptin group than in the placebo group.  
The  analysis  of  2-hour  PMG  conducted  in  the  completers  population  at  week  18  supported  the 
conclusion for the primary analysis. 
•  Two-Hour PMG at Week 54 
A significantly greater reduction in 2-hour PMG was observed with sitagliptin at Week 54 than that 
observed with placebo (see Table 9). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Analysis of Change from Baseline in 2-Hour Post-Meal Glucose (mg/dL) at Week 18 (Full 
Analysis Set) 
Table 9: Analysis of Change from Baseline in 2-Hour Post-Meal Glucose (mg/dL) at Week 54 
(Full Analysis Set)  
The  analysis  of  2-hour  PMG  conducted  in  the  completers  population  at  Week  54  showed  greater 
within group decreases from baseline in both treatment groups and smaller between group difference 
in LS mean reduction from baseline compared to the analysis of the FAS population due to the same 
reason as the endpoint of HbA1c. 
•  Fast Plasma Glucose (FPG) at Week 18 
Table  10  displays  Week  18  FPG  results  for  the  FAS  population.  A  statistically  significantly  greater 
decrease  in  mean  change  from  baseline  in  FPG  was observed  in  the  sitagliptin group  relative to the 
placebo group.  
The  analysis  of  FPG  conducted  in  the  completers  population  at  Week  18  supported  the  conclusion 
from the FAS analysis. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Analysis of Change from Baseline in Fasting Plasma Glucose (mg/dl) at Week 18 (Full Analysis 
Set) 
•  FPG at Week 54 
Similarly, a significantly greater reduction in FPG was observed with sitagliptin at Week 54 relative to 
that  observed  with  placebo  for  the  FAS  population  (nominal  p<0.001,  Table  11).  The  repeated 
measures analysis used as a secondary approach to handling missing data supported the conclusion for 
the primary analysis. 
Table 11: Analysis of Change from Baseline in Fasting Plasma Glucose (mg/dl) at Week 54 (Full Analysis 
Set). 
The analysis of FPG conducted in the completers population at Week 54 shows greater decreases from 
baseline within both the sitagliptin and placebo groups and smaller between group difference on the 
reduction from baseline as compared to the analysis of the FAS population due to the same reason as 
the endpoint of HbA1c. 
•  Durability of FPG Effect 
The  profiles  of  mean  change  from  baseline  in  FPG  over  time  (Figure  3)  showed  reduction  in  mean 
FPG in the sitagliptin group at Week 6, with a reduction through Week 54. There was a reduction in 
the placebo group and the FPG level was stabilized from Week 18 through Week 54. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The coefficient of durability (COD), defined here as the slope of the time profile of mean change from 
baseline in the outcome variable (FPG), was derived using the LS Means produced by the ANCOVA 
models. The estimation of COD provides a quantitative assessment for the rate of deterioration of a 
treatment after reaching its peak efficacy. A treatment with larger COD tends to be less to Week 54 
and its 95% CI were provided. Standard errors for the COD were computed by bootstrapping subjects 
within treatment groups. There was no statistically significant between-group difference in the COD 
(nominal p=0.612). 
Figure 3: LS Mean Change from Baseline in Fasting Plasma Glucose (mg/dL) Over Time (LS Mean ± SE) 
by Treatment Group (Full Analysis Set) 
There  is  a  statistically  significantly  greater  decrease  in  2-hour  PMG  relative  to  baseline  in  the 
sitagliptin group than in the placebo group at 18 weeks and at 54 weeks in the FAS analysis and in the 
completers analysis. The reduction in FPG is smaller but also significant. 
B.4. 
Tertiary endpoints 
Other parameters such as Measures of Beta-Cell Function and Insulin Secretion like Proinsulin/Insulin 
Ratio,  HOMA  B,  2-hour  post-meal  C-peptide,  2-hour  proinsulin  to  insulin  ratio,  2-hour  post-meal 
insulin,  2-hour  post-meal  proinsulin,  insulinogenic  index  and  AUC  endpoints  are  supportive  to  the 
primary endpoints results 
B.5. 
Time to Rescue 
The  medical risk  of  inadequate  glycaemic  control  was  considered  and  efforts to  limit  this risk  were 
implemented in the study protocol. To ensure that patients were not exposed to poorer control for an 
undue period of time, strict glycaemic rescue and discontinuation criteria were included in the study 
design. Because of the length of the placebo-controlled double-blind treatment period, progressively 
stricter  glycaemic  rescue/discontinuation  criteria  were  implemented,  so  that  patients  with  poorer 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
glycaemic control were rescued early in the double-blind treatment period. Indeed, rescue could have 
been  initiated  immediately  after  the  patient  entered  the  double-blind  period  if  the  patient’s  FPG 
reflected deterioration of control. In addition, all patients received initial and continued counselling for 
diet and exercise, which may lead to improvements in glycaemic control.  
The  study  design  included  rescue  therapy  with  a  sulfonylurea  (generally  glipizide)  in  patients  with 
poor  glycaemic  control.  Rescue  therapy  was  provided  to  allow  patients  to  benefit  from  continued 
participation in the study and to support the collection of a larger database of safety and tolerability 
information while avoiding prolonged exposure to poor glycaemic control. Patients who were rescued 
were  included  in  the  glycaemic/lipid  analysis  and  primary  safety  analysis  up  until  the  initiation  of 
rescue  therapy.  A  secondary  analysis  of  safety  included  data  regardless  of  the  initiation  of  rescue 
therapy. 
Figure  4  presents  results  for  the  analysis  of  time  to  receiving  glycaemic  rescue  medication.  
A significantly smaller proportion of patients in the sitagliptin treatment group initiated rescue therapy 
by Week 54 compared to patients in the placebo treatment group. The numbers of patients at risk (i.e., 
patients who were not rescued) at each specified calendar week are also provided in Figure 4.  
The progressive increase in the proportion of patients rescued in both treatment groups after Week 30 
was  due  to  the  implementation  of  progressively  stricter  rescue  criteria.  Specifically,  the  rescue 
criterion  from  baseline  through  Week  9  was  an  FPG  value  >280  mg/dL;  the  rescue  criterion  after 
Week 9 through Week 24 was an FPG value >240 mg/dL; the rescue criterion after Week 24 was an 
HbA1c value >8.5%.  
Figure 4: Patients receiving rescue medication 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2 
Clinical safety 
A) 
Clinical adverse experiences 
Over  the  54-week  treatment  period,  slightly  higher  incidences  of  overall  adverse  experiences  were 
observed  in  the  sitagliptin  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (75.3%  and  70.7%  respectively). 
These  were  not  indicative  of  isolated  increases  but  rather  reflective  of  a  number  of  slightly  higher 
incidences of specific AEs across a number of body systems. In addition, slightly higher incidences of 
serious  adverse  experiences  were  observed  in  the  sitagliptin  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group 
(8.2% and 3.3% respectively), but no serious adverse experience was reported in more than 2 patients 
in a treatment group and none was considered by the investigator to be related to study drug.  
Slightly  higher  incidences  of  drug-related  adverse  experiences  were  also  observed  in  the  sitagliptin 
group (15.3% and 10.9% respectively) compared to the placebo group. For all summary measures, the 
95%  confidence  interval  (CI)  around  the  between-group  difference  included  “0”.  The  number  of 
patients discontinued due to adverse experiences was low and similar in both treatment groups, and no 
patients  were  discontinued  in  either  treatment  group  due  to  a  drug-related  adverse  experience.  No 
deaths were reported in this study. 
The results of the clinical adverse experience profile and summary analyses for the secondary safety 
analysis  (all  data  included)  are  not  meaningfully  different  from  those  in  the  primary  safety  analysis 
(excluding data after initiation of glycaemic rescue therapy). 
Adverse experiences by System Organ Class (SOC) were reported most frequently for Infections and 
Infestations,  Gastrointestinal  Disorders,  and  Musculoskeletal  and  Connective  Tissue  Disorders.  
The incidences of adverse experiences grouped by SOC were generally comparable between the two 
treatment groups. Over 54 weeks, a higher incidence of adverse experiences was reported for patients 
in the sitagliptin group (9 (5.3%) patients) compared with the placebo group (1 (1.1%) patient) in the 
Cardiac Disorders SOC. Other SOCs for which a numerically higher incidence of adverse experiences 
was observed in the sitagliptin treatment group and with a between-group difference >2% include: Eye 
Disorders; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions; Infections and Infestations; Injury, 
Poisoning,  and  Procedural  Complications;  Metabolism  and  Nutrition  Disorders;  and  Respiratory, 
Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders SOCs. For all SOCs, the observed between-group differences in 
the incidence of adverse experiences were generally similar to those observed at Week 18 and the 95% 
CI included “0”. Specific adverse experiences are discussed in the following section. 
The above-mentioned increase in incidence of cardiac disorders observed during the use of sitagliptin 
was noted by the CHMP, who requested that these types of events be closely monitored. The MAH 
was requested to submit this complete data set in the upcoming PSURs. 
A.1. 
Hypoglycemia 
Over the 54 weeks, hypoglycemia was observed in 7 patients (4.1%) in the sitagliptin group who had 
10 episodes in total. In the placebo group only one patient (1.1%) with one episode of hypoglycemia 
was  reported.  All  episodes  of  hypoglycemia  were  considered  mild  in  intensity,  none  required  either 
non-medical or medical assistance, and no patients were discontinued due to the adverse experience of 
hypoglycemia. Events of hypoglycemia in the sitagliptin group were considered by the investigator to 
be  related  to  the  study  medication  in  4  of  the  patients  and  not  related  in  the  other  3  patients.  
The  episode  of  hypoglycaemia  in  1  patient  in  the  placebo  group  was  considered  not  related  to  the 
study drug by the investigator. 
A.2. 
Body Weight 
An  increase  from  baseline in  body  weight  at Week  18  was noted in  both  groups  (sitagliptin  0.4  kg; 
placebo 0.1 kg); not statistically significant (p=0.362). At 54 weeks, the increase in body weight from 
baseline  was  1.8  kg  for  the  sitagliptin  group,  versus  1.2  kg  for  the  placebo  group.  No  statistically 
significant (p=0.372) between-group difference was observed for body weight increase at Week 54. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.3. 
Gastro-intestinal Side Effects 
Over  54  weeks,  the  incidences  of  the  pre-specified  gastrointestinal  adverse  experiences  (abdominal 
pain,  nausea,  vomiting,  and  diarrhea)  were  numerically  higher  in  the  placebo  treatment  group 
compared with the incidences observed in the sitagliptin group. 
A.4.  Other 
Adverse experiences of headache, independent of relationship with the study drug, were reported for 
10 (5.9%) patients in the sitagliptin treatment group compared with 4 (4.3%) patients in the placebo 
treatment  group.  Of  those,  adverse  experiences  of  headache  in  4  (2.4%)  patients  in  the  sitagliptin 
group and none in the placebo group were considered by the investigator to be possibly related to the 
study drug. Two of these events resolved while the patient was on study  medication. The other two 
(reported  as  adverse  experiences)  were  ongoing  at  study  completion.  Adverse  experiences  in  these 
four patients were mild in intensity and did not result in interruption or discontinuation of the study 
drug. 
B) 
Laboratory tests 
For most laboratory parameters, mean changes over time and frequency of values meeting Pre-defined 
Laboratory  Criteria (PDLC)  were  similar  in  the sitagliptin treatment  group  compared  to  the  placebo 
group.  Over  the  54-week  treatment  period,  similar  incidences  of  laboratory  adverse  experiences 
overall  and  laboratory  drug-related  adverse  experiences  were  observed  in  both  treatment  groups.  
No  laboratory  serious  adverse  experiences  were  reported.  One  patient  in  the  sitagliptin  group  was 
discontinued  due  to  a  laboratory  drug-related  adverse  experience  of  decreased  white  blood  cells.  
There were no discontinuations due to laboratory adverse experiences in the placebo group. 
C) 
Risk Management plan 
There was no change in the pharmacovigilance and risk minimisation activities as defined in the RMP 
as it existed at the time of submission. An update to the RMP was submitted in June 2009.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4. 
Changes to the Product Information 
The  CHMP  agreed  with  the  introduction  of  the  new  wordings  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics and Package Leaflet, as detailed below. 
The text underlined has been introduced in this variation and the text strikethrough has been deleted. 
3.4.1  Changes to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) 
Section 4.1 (Therapeutic indications) 
“Velmetia  is  also  indicated  as  triple  combination  therapy  with  a  PPARγ  agonist  (i.e.,  a 
thiazolidinedione)  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  on  their 
maximal tolerated dose of metformin and a PPARγ agonist.” 
Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration) 
“For patients inadequately controlled on dual combination therapy with the maximal tolerated dose of 
metformin and a PPARγ agonist 
The dose of Velmetia should provide sitagliptin dosed as 50 mg twice daily (100 mg total daily dose) 
and a dose of metformin similar to the dose already being taken.” 
Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects) 
“Table 1. The frequency of adverse reactions identified from placebo-controlled clinical studies 
Adverse Reaction 
Frequency of adverse reaction by treatment regimen 
Sitagliptin 
with 
Metformin1 
Sitagliptin 
with a 
Sulfonylurea2 
Sitagliptin 
with 
Metformin 
and a 
Sulfonylurea 
 and 
Metformin3 
Sitagliptin with 
a PPARγ 
Agent 
(pioglitazone)4 
Sitagliptin with 
a  
PPARγ Agent 
(rosiglitazone) 
and 
Metformin5 
Time-point 
24-week 
24-week 
24-week 
24-week 
18-week 
Investigations 
blood glucose 
decreased 
Nervous system 
disorders 
headache 
somnolence 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
diarrhoea 
nausea 
flatulence  
constipation 
upper abdominal 
pain 
vomiting 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
hypoglycaemia* 
General disorders 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
peripheral oedema 
* In clinical trials of sitagliptin as monotherapy and sitagliptin as part of combination therapy with 
metformin and/or a PPARγ agent, rates of hypoglycaemia reported with sitagliptin were similar to 
rates in patients taking placebo. 
† Observed in the 54-week analysis.” 
Common 
Common† 
(…) 
“5      In  this  study  of  sitagliptin  100 mg  once  daily  in  combination  with  rosiglitazone  and  metformin, 
which continued through 54 weeks, the incidence of adverse reactions considered as drug-related in 
patients  treated  with  the  sitagliptin  combination  compared  to  treatment  with  the  placebo 
combination was 15.3 % and 10.9 %, respectively. Other drug-related adverse reactions reported in 
the  54-week  analysis  (frequency  common)  in  patients  treated  with  the  sitagliptin  combination 
occurring in excess (> 0.2 % and difference > 1 patient) of that in patients treated with the placebo 
combination  were:  headache,  cough,  vomiting,  hypoglycaemia,  fungal  skin  infection,  and  upper 
respiratory tract infection.” 
Section 4.9 (Overdose) 
“In Phase I multiple-dose studies, there were no dose-related clinical adverse reactions observed with 
sitagliptin with doses of up to 600 mg per day for periods of up to  10 days and 400 mg per day for 
periods of up to 28 days.” 
Section 5.1 (Pharmacodynamic properties) 
“In  a  two-day  study  in  healthy  subjects,  sitagliptin  alone  increased  active  GLP-1  concentrations, 
whereas  metformin  alone  increased  active  and  total  GLP-1  concentrations  to  similar  extents.  Co-
administration  of  sitagliptin  and  metformin  had  an  additive  effect  on  active  GLP-1  concentrations. 
Sitagliptin, but not metformin, increased active GIP concentrations.” 
“Overall,  sitagliptin  improved  glycaemic  control  when  given  as  monotherapy,  when  used  in 
combination with metformin (initial or add-on therapy), in combination with a sulphonylurea (with or 
without  metformin),  and  in  combination  with  a  thiazolidinedione,  and  in  combination  with  a  PPAR 
agonist (e.g. thiazolidinedione) and metformin….” 
“Study of sitagliptin in combination with metformin and a PPARγ agonist 
A  54-week  placebo-controlled  study  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  sitagliptin 
(100 mg  once  daily)  added  to  the  combination  of  rosiglitazone  and  metformin.  The  addition  of 
sitagliptin to rosiglitazone and metformin provided significant improvements in glycaemic parameters 
at  the  primary  timepoint  of  Week  18,  with  improvements  sustained  through  the  end  of  the  study. 
Change  from  baseline  in  body  weight  was  similar  for  patients  treated  with  sitagliptin  relative  to 
placebo (1.9 vs. 1.3 kg).” 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“ 
Study 
Sitagliptin 100 mg once daily 
added to ongoing rosiglitazone 
+ metformin therapy (N=170) 
Week 18 
Week 54 
% HbA 
 1c (%) at week 24. 
Mean 
baseline 
HbA1c (%) 
Mean change from 
baseline HbA1c 
(%)† 
Placebo-corrected 
mean change in 
HbA1c (%)†  
(95 % CI) 
8.8 
8.8 
-1.0 
-1.0 
-0.7‡ 
(-0.9, -0.5) 
-0.8‡ 
(-1.0, -0.5) 
3.4.2  Changes to the Package Leaflet (PL) 
Section 4 (Possible side effects) 
“Some patients have experienced the following side effects while taking Velmetia in combination with 
rosiglitazone and metformin: 
Common:  headache,  cough,  diarrhoea,  vomiting,  low  blood  sugar,  fungal  skin  infection,  upper 
respiratory infection, swelling of the hands or legs.” 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Study  P052  was  a  multicenter,  double-blind, randomized,  parallel-group  Phase III  study  to  compare 
the efficacy of sitagliptin 100 mg with placebo in patients with T2DM who had inadequate glycaemic 
control on combination therapy with metformin (at a dose of ≥1500 mg/day) and rosiglitazone (at a 
dose of ≥4 mg/day). The study was designed to include patients on different types of dual medication. 
Patients  with  T2DM  on  dual  combination  therapy  with  metformin  and  a  PPARγ  agonist,  a  PPARγ 
agonist  and  a  sulfonylurea  agent,  or  metformin  and  a  sulfonylurea  agent  were  eligible.  Prior  to 
randomisation patients switched from their own therapy to metformin and rosiglitazone and the dose 
was  titrated.  The  wash-out/titration  period  for  metformin  and  PPARγ  agonist  was  long  enough.  
The  mean  duration  of  diabetes  was  relatively  long  with  9.3  years  and  mean  HbA1c  levels  were 
relatively high (8.8%) in this study population. 
Furthermore, to ensure that patients were not exposed to poorer control for an undue period of time, 
strict glycaemic rescue and discontinuation criteria were included in the study design. Between 18 and 
30  weeks  the rescue  criteria  were  based  on  FPG levels >13.32  mmol/L. The sitagliptin and  placebo 
group  were  more  or  less  the  same  regarding  glycaemic  rescue  therapy.  Starting  from  Week  24,  the 
rescue criteria changed to a longer-term measurement method: HbA1c >8.5%. After week 30 a strong 
difference between the two groups occurred. 
In  study  P052,  sitagliptin  as  add-on  therapy  in  patients  with  inadequate  control  on  metformin  and 
rosiglitazone provided improvement in glycaemic control compared with placebo. Least square means 
for change from baseline at week 54 with 95% CI Full-Analysis-Set Population for HbA1c (%): -0.77 
(-1.04, -0.50) for FPG (mg/dL): -17.4 (-26.4, -8.4) and for 2-hourPMG (mg/dL) -34.1 (-48.4, -19.9) for 
sitagliptin  compared  vs  placebo. There  was  a trend that  patients  with  higher  baseline  HbA1c  values 
had a greater mean decrease from baseline in HbA1c in both sitagliptin group and placebo group. 
Add-on  therapy  with  sitagliptin  resulted  in  greater  proportions  of  patients  achieving  the  glycaemic 
goal of HbA1c <7% compared to placebo. The percentage of patients achieving HbA1c< 7% at week 
54 (26.2%) was higher than at week 18 (22%), however the percentage of patients achieving HbA1c< 
7%  at  week  18  and  week  54  was  only  14.9%.  Results  were  variable  and  confidence  intervals  were 
wide. Nevertheless, there might be patients who can benefit from addition of sitagliptin to metformin 
and PPARγ agonist treatment. 
The overall exposure and safety population examined was sufficient. A higher percentage of patients 
completed  the  study  in  the  sitagliptin  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group.  Reasons  for 
discontinuation were generally similar between treatment groups with a higher percentage of patients 
in the placebo treatment group discontinuing due to lack of efficacy. 
Over the 54-week treatment period slightly higher incidences of serious adverse experiences, slightly 
higher incidences of overall adverse experiences and slightly higher incidences of drug-related adverse 
experiences were observed in the sitagliptin group compared to the placebo group (8.2% vs 3.3% and 
75.3%  vs  70.7%  and  15.3%  vs  10.9%    respectively).  No  unexpected  adverse  events  and  no  deaths 
were reported.  
The overall number of patients reported to have clinical adverse experiences of hypoglycaemia during 
the study was low and the between-group difference in the incidence of adverse experiences was not 
statistically  significant.  The  few  hypoglycaemia  events  reported  in  this  study  with  sitagliptin  were 
mild, none required assistance for treatment, and none caused interruption or discontinuation of study 
drug. 
Over  54  weeks,  the  incidences  of  the  pre-specified  gastrointestinal  adverse  experiences  (abdominal 
pain,  nausea,  vomiting,  and  diarrhoea)  were  numerically  higher  in  the  placebo  treatment  group 
compared with the incidences observed in the sitagliptin group. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After 54 weeks body weight increased 1.8 kg in the sitagliptin group and 1.2 kg in the placebo group. 
The difference between groups was not statistically significant. 
In  conclusion,  sitagliptin  100mg  caused  a  very  small,  but  statistically  significant  reduction  in  mean 
HbA1c  in  respect  to  baseline  HbA1c.  There  was  a  statistically  significant  decrease  in  postprandial 
glucose  levels  in  the  sitagliptin  group.  In  the  sitagliptin  group,  a  greater  proportion  of  patients 
achieved  the  glycaemic  goal  of  HbA1c  <7%,  however  this  effect  seems  to  be  variable  over  time.  
The numbers of hypoglycaemic events during the use of sitagliptin was low. 
Benefits 
Mean HbA1c reduction was small in respect to baseline HbA1c, but significant. A significant decrease 
of  postprandial  glucose  was  measured.  More  patients  in  the  sitagliptin  group  reached  HbA1c  <7%, 
although the percentage was modest and less patients in the sitagliptin group needed rescue therapy 
from week 24 onwards. There were few hypoglycaemic events. 
Risks 
No unexpected adverse events were observed. 
Balance 
The  benefit/risk  for  Velmetia  to  include  the  indication  for  the  triple  combination  therapy  with  a 
PPARγ  agonist  (i.e.,  a  thiazolidinedione)  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  in  patients  inadequately 
controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin and a PPARγ agonist is considered positive. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
