EMA/370038/2013  
EMEA/H/C/000862 
EPAR summary for the public 
Velmetia 
sitagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Velmetia. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Velmetia. 
What is Velmetia? 
Velmetia is a medicine that contains two active substances, sitagliptin and metformin hydrochloride. It 
is available as tablets (50 mg sitagliptin / 850 mg metformin hydrochloride; and 50 mg sitagliptin / 
1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride). 
What is Velmetia used for? 
Velmetia is used in patients with type 2 diabetes to improve the control of blood glucose (sugar) levels. 
It is used in addition to diet and exercise in the following ways: 
• 
• 
• 
in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin (an antidiabetes medicine) used on 
its own; 
in patients who are already taking a combination of sitagliptin and metformin as separate tablets; 
in combination with a sulphonylurea, a PPAR-gamma agonist such as a thiazolidinedione, or insulin 
(other types of antidiabetes medicine) in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on this 
medicine and metformin. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Velmetia used? 
Velmetia is taken twice a day. The strength of tablet to use depends on the dose of the other 
antidiabetes medicines that the patient was taking before. If Velmetia is taken with a sulphonylurea or 
insulin, the dose of the sulphonylurea or insulin may need to be lowered, to avoid hypoglycaemia (low 
blood sugar levels). 
The maximum dose of sitagliptin is 100 mg a day. Velmetia should be taken with food to avoid any 
stomach problems caused by metformin. 
How does Velmetia work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substances in 
Velmetia, sitagliptin and metformin hydrochloride, each have a different mode of action. 
Sitagliptin is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown of 
‘incretin’ hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate the pancreas 
to produce insulin. By increasing the levels of incretin hormones in the blood, sitagliptin stimulates the 
pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Sitagliptin does not work when 
the blood glucose is low. Sitagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by the liver, by 
increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. Sitagliptin has been 
authorised in the European Union (EU) as Januvia and Xelevia since 2007, and as Tesavel since 2008. 
Metformin works mainly by inhibiting glucose production and reducing its absorption in the gut. 
Metformin has been available in the EU since the 1950s. 
As a result of the action of both active substances, blood glucose levels are reduced and this helps to 
control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Velmetia been studied? 
Sitagliptin on its own as Januvia/Xelevia/Tesavel can be used with metformin, and with both metformin 
and a sulphonylurea, in type 2 diabetes patients. The company presented the results of three studies 
of Januvia/Xelevia to support the use of Velmetia in patients who were not satisfactorily controlled on 
their existing metformin treatment. 
Two of the studies looked at sitagliptin as an add-on to metformin: the first compared it with placebo 
(a dummy treatment) in 701 patients, and the second compared it with glipizide (a sulphonylurea) in 
1,172 patients. The third study compared sitagliptin with placebo, when used as an add-on to 
glimepiride (another sulphonylurea), with or without metformin, in 441 patients. 
The results of three further studies were used to support the use of Velmetia. The first included 1,091 
patients who were not satisfactorily controlled on diet and exercise alone and compared the effect of 
Velmetia with that of metformin or sitagliptin alone. The second included 278 patients who were not 
satisfactorily controlled on the combination of metformin and rosiglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) 
and compared the effects of adding sitagliptin or placebo. The third included 641 patients who were 
not satisfactorily controlled on a stable dose of insulin, three-quarters of whom were also taking 
metformin. This study also compared the effects of adding sitagliptin or placebo. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in the levels of a substance in 
the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. 
Velmetia  
EMA/370038/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The company carried out additional studies to show that the active substances in Velmetia are 
absorbed by the body in the same way as the two medicines given separately. 
What benefit has Velmetia shown during the studies? 
Velmetia was more effective than metformin alone. Adding 100 mg sitagliptin to metformin reduced 
HbA1c levels by 0.67% (from around 8.0%) after 24 weeks, compared with a fall of 0.02% in the 
patients adding placebo. The effectiveness of adding sitagliptin to metformin was similar to that of 
adding glipizide. In the study in which sitagliptin was added to glimepiride and metformin, the levels of 
HbA1c were reduced by 0.59% after 24 weeks, compared with an increase of 0.30% in the patients 
adding placebo. 
In the first of the three further studies, Velmetia was more effective than metformin or sitagliptin 
alone. In the second, HbA1c levels were reduced by 1.03% after 18 weeks in patients adding sitagliptin 
to metformin and rosiglitazone, compared with a fall of 0.31% in those adding placebo. Finally, they 
were reduced by 0.59% after 24 weeks in patients adding sitagliptin to insulin, compared with a fall of 
0.03% in those adding placebo. There was no difference in this effect between the patients also taking 
metformin and those not taking it. 
What is the risk associated with Velmetia? 
The most common side effect with Velmetia (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) is nausea 
(feeling sick). For the full list of all side effects reported with Velmetia, see the package leaflet. 
Velmetia must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to sitagliptin, metformin or any 
of the other ingredients. It must not be used in patients who have diabetic ketoacidosis or pre-coma 
(dangerous conditions that can occur in diabetes), problems with the kidneys or liver, conditions that 
may affect the kidneys, or a disease that causes a reduced supply of oxygen to the tissues such as 
failure of the heart or lungs or a recent heart attack. It must also not be used in patients who consume 
excessive amounts of alcohol or who are alcoholic, or in women who are breast-feeding. For the full list 
of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Velmetia been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Velmetia’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Velmetia 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Velmetia on 
16 July 2008.  
The full EPAR for Velmetia can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Velmetia, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2013. 
Velmetia  
EMA/370038/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
