Summary of risk management plan for Velphoro (sucroferric 
oxyhydroxide) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Velphoro. The RMP details important 
risks  of  Velphoro,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be 
obtained about Velphoro's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Velphoro's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Velphoro should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Velphoro should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Velphoro's RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used for 
Velphoro  is  authorised  for  the  control  of  blood  phosphate  levels  in  adult  chronic  kidney 
disease patients who are undergoing haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis (see SmPC for the 
full  indication).  It  contains  sucroferric  oxyhydroxide  (mixture  of  polynuclear  iron(III)-
oxyhydroxide, sucrose and starches) as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Velphoro’s benefits can be found in Velphoro’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/velphoro. 
II. 
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Velphoro, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Velphoro risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 
 
 
 
Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment so that immediate 
action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
If  important  information  that may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Velphoro  is  not  yet available,  it  is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Velphoro are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Velphoro. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and 
needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risk 
Important Potential Risk 
Missing Information 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified Risk: None 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Important Potential Risk: None 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Note:  N/A=Not applicable. 
Missing Information: None 
Risk minimisation measures 
Note:  N/A=Not applicable. 
None 
None 
None 
N/A  
N/A  
N/A  
N/A  
N/A  
N/A  
N/A  
 
 
II.C. 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There  are  currently  no  post-authorisation  safety  or  efficacy  studies  for  Velphoro  that  are 
specific obligations and/or conditions of the marketing authorisation. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies in post-authorisation development plan. 
 
