EMA/580223/2023 
EMEA/H/C/004180 
Veltassa (patiromer) 
An overview of Veltassa and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Veltassa and what is it used for? 
Veltassa is a medicine used for treating adults and adolescents aged 12 years and above with high 
levels of potassium in the blood (hyperkalaemia). Hyperkalaemia can cause serious heart problems 
and muscle weakness. 
Veltassa contains the active substance patiromer. 
How is Veltassa used? 
Veltassa is available as sachets containing a powder for mixing with water, liquid or soft food and is to 
be taken by mouth once daily. The recommended starting dose depends on the patient’s age; the dose 
is adjusted based on the patient’s blood levels of potassium.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Veltassa, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Veltassa work? 
When Veltassa is taken by mouth, the active substance, patiromer, remains in the gut where it 
attaches tightly to potassium to form a compound that is then passed out in the stool. In this way, 
patiromer draws potassium from the body into the gut and so reduces the amount of potassium in the 
blood. 
What benefits of Veltassa have been shown in studies? 
One main study involving adults with chronic kidney disease who had hyperkalaemia found that 
Veltassa is effective in reducing potassium levels in the blood.  
In the first part of the study, 243 patients with hyperkalaemia (with an average potassium level of 
5.6 mmol/litre) were treated with Veltassa. After 4 weeks of treatment, their potassium level fell on 
average by 1.0 mmol/litre.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The second part of the study compared Veltassa with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 107 patients 
whose potassium level had fallen with Veltassa during the first part of the study. After 4 weeks, the 
average potassium level did not change in patients who received Veltassa but it went back up by an 
average of 0.7 mmol/litre in patients who received placebo. 
Another study involved 14 adolescents aged 12 years and above with hyperkalaemia (with an average 
potassium level of 5.5 mmol/litre). After 14 days of treatment with Veltassa, their potassium levels fell 
on average by 0.5 mmol/litre. This effect persisted, leading to an average reduction by 1.1 mmol/litre 
after 26 weeks of treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Veltassa? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Veltassa, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Veltassa (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include 
constipation, diarrhoea, abdominal (belly) pain, wind and low levels of magnesium in the blood.  
Why is Veltassa authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Veltassa’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. The Agency considered that there is a need for effective treatment of 
hyperkalaemia and Veltassa achieves a meaningful lowering of potassium levels. The side effects are 
relatively moderate but the doctor should take them into account when considering treatment with 
Veltassa. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Veltassa? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Veltassa have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Veltassa are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Veltassa are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Veltassa 
Veltassa received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 July 2017. 
Further information on Veltassa can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/veltassa.  
This summary was last updated in 01-2024. 
Veltassa (patiromer)  
EMA/580223/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
