EMA/788418/2016 
EMEA/H/C/004169 
EPAR summary for the public 
Vemlidy 
tenofovir alafenamide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Vemlidy. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Vemlidy. 
For practical information about using Vemlidy, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Vemlidy and what is it used for? 
Vemlidy is an antiviral medicine for treating chronic (long-term) hepatitis B, an infectious disease that 
affects the liver. 
This medicine is used in patients aged 12 years and older weighing at least 35 kg. It contains the 
active substance tenofovir alafenamide. 
How is Vemlidy used? 
Vemlidy is available as 25 mg tablets which are taken by mouth (one tablet a day) with food.  The 
patient will usually take their medicine for at least 6 to 12 months, and treatment may last several 
years.  
Vemlidy can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Vemlidy work? 
The active substance in Vemlidy, tenofovir alafenamide, works by stopping the hepatitis B virus in the 
liver from multiplying. It is converted in the body into its active compound tenofovir, which blocks the 
activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme made by the hepatitis B virus that allows it to reproduce 
itself in the cells it has infected. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Vemlidy have been shown in studies? 
Vemlidy reduces levels of hepatitis B virus in most patients. In a study of 426 patients with ‘e-antigen 
negative’ chronic hepatitis, 94% of patients on Vemlidy had very low levels of viral DNA after 48 weeks 
of treatment. This result was similar to that in patients taking another form of tenofovir (tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate) where 93% had very low viral DNA levels.  
In a second study of 875 patients with ‘e-antigen positive’ chronic hepatitis, 64% of patients taking 
Vemlidy and 67% of those taking tenofovir disoproxil fumarate had very low levels of viral DNA after 
48 weeks. These results suggest that the comparator medicine might be more effective in ‘e-antigen 
positive’ cases but differences seen are small. 
The terms ‘e-antigen positive’ and ‘e-antigen negative’ refer to the presence or absence of e-antigen, a 
hepatitis B viral protein. If this protein is present, it means that the virus is multiplying rapidly and the 
viral load may be higher. 
What are the risks associated with Vemlidy? 
The most common side effects with Vemlidy are headache (11% of patients), nausea (6% of patients) 
and tiredness (6% of patients). For the full list of side effects and restrictions see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vemlidy approved? 
Vemlidy suppresses levels of hepatitis B virus in the body, and its effectiveness is comparable to that 
of another tenofovir medicine (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate). With regard to its risks, the side effects 
of Vemlidy are manageable. In addition, Vemlidy is effective at a lower dose than tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate and may lead to reduced side effects in the kidneys and bones. 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) therefore concluded that the 
benefits of Vemlidy outweigh its risks and recommended its approval in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vemlidy? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vemlidy have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Vemlidy 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Vemlidy on 09 January 2017. 
The full EPAR for Vemlidy can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Vemlidy, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2017. 
Vemlidy  
EMA/788418/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
