SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Ventavis. For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Ventavis  contains  iloprost,  (ZK  36374;  5-{(E)-(1S,  5S,  6R,  7R)-7-hydroxy-6-[(E)-(3S,  4RS)-3-
hydroxy-4-methyl-1-octen-6-inyl]-bi-cyclo[3.3.0]octan-3-ylidene}pentanoic acid), a chemically stable 
synthetic analogue of prostacyclin PGI2. There are 6 stereogenic centers in the molecule. Iloprost is an 
approximately  equal  mixture  of  two  diastereoisomers  with  the  4-methyl  group  the  hydroxy  methyl 
octenyl in either the R or the S position; the other 5 stereogenic centers are pure R or S.  
O H
O
C H 3
O H
O H
An  intravenous  formulation  of  iloprost  is  marketed  under  the  trade  name  Ilomedine  in  several 
European  member  states  and  was  authorised  through  national  procedures.  The  approved  indications 
include  the  treatment  of  thromboangiitis  obliterans  with  ulcers  or  rest  pain,  severe  inoperable 
peripheral arterial occlusive disease stages III-IV, and severe Raynaud’s phenomenon.   
VENTAVIS 10 µg/ml nebuliser solution in ampoules containing 2 ml of solution (i.e. 20µg iloprost) is 
intended for administration via the inhalation route with a nebuliser.  
Pulmonary  Arterial  Hypertension  (PAH)  can  occur  without  apparent  cause  (Primary  Pulmonary 
Hypertension)(PPH)  or  be  secondary  to  systemic  disease,  such  as  systemic  sclerosis,  CREST 
syndrome,  mixed  connective  tissue  disease  (MCTD),  HIV  infection  or  be  induced  by  drugs/toxins. 
Pulmonary hypertension may also be caused by chronic thromboembolic occlusions of the pulmonary 
arteries. 
The pathogenesis involves vasoconstriction, vascular remodelling, and thrombosis in situ resulting in a 
progressive  increase  in  pulmonary  vascular  resistances  leading  to increase  pulmonary  hypertension. 
Death is most closely associated with an increase in pulmonary artery pressure and right atrial pressure 
and a decrease in cardiac output due to failure of the right side of the heart. Pulmonary hypertension is 
clinically defined as a mean pulmonary arterial pressure of more than 25 mmHg at rest or 30 mmHg 
during exercise. 
The incidence of PPH amounts to 1 to 2 cases per million individuals per year. PPH and the following 
forms  of  SPH:  connective  tissue  disease  pulmonary  hypertension,  drug-induced  pulmonary 
hypertension, portopulmonary hypertension, pulmonary hypertension associated with congenital heart 
disease  and  chronic  thromboembolic  pulmonary  hypertension  are  estimated  to  be  affecting 
approximately 2.2 per 10,000 persons in the European Community. 
At  the  present  time,  the  conventional  therapy  for  patients  with  primary  or  secondary  pulmonary 
arterial  hypertension  includes  vasodilators,  such  as  high  doses  of  calcium-channel  blockers, 
anticoagulants and oxygen. Epoprostenol (prostacyclin) delivered via a portable pump system into an 
in  dwelling  central  vein  catheter  has been shown to improve  hemodynamic parameters  and  exercise 
capacity in patients with both PPH and secondary PAH (functional class III and IV), and it has been 
1/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shown to improve survival in patients with severe conditions. Pharmacological tolerance with need for 
dose increments during long-term treatment is commonly observed.  
The  severity  of  pulmonary  hypertension  is  classified  according  to  the  WHO  functional  assessment 
1998 WHO World Symposium (modified after the NYHA functional assessment). Functional class is 
a predictor of survival. Patients who are in functional class II and III have a mean survival of 3.5 years 
compared with a mean survival of 6 months for those who are in functional class IV. 
Ventavis is indicated for treatment of patients with PPH, classified as NYHA functional class III, to 
improve exercise capacity and symptoms. 
The recommended dose regimen of Ventavis is 2.5 micrograms or 5.0 micrograms of inhaled iloprost 
(as  delivered  at  the  mouthpiece  of  the  nebuliser).  The  dose  per  inhalation  session  should  be 
administered  6  to  9 times  per  day  according  to  the  individual  need  and  tolerability.  The  duration  of 
treatment  depends  on  clinical  status  and  is  left  to  physician’s  discretion.  Ventavis  should  only  be 
initiated and monitored by a physician experienced in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, Pharmaceutical And Biological Aspects 
Composition 
Ventavis is an aqueous,  clear, sterile, ready to  use  nebuliser solution  for inhalation. It is an isotonic 
solution in dilute ethanol with a pH close to 8.0. Ventavis contains 10µ g/ml of the active substance, 
iloprost,  (as  trometamol  salt).  2  ml  of  the  solution  are  supplied  in  single  glass  (type  I)  ampoules  of 
3 ml. 
Active substance 
Iloprost  (INN),  is  a  synthetic  analogue  of  the  natural  prostacyclin  PGI2  ,  IUPAC  name:  5-{(E)-
(1S,5S,6R,7R)-7-Hydroxy-6-[(E)-(3S,4RS)-3-hydroxy-4-methyl-1-octen-6-ynyl]-bicyclo[3.3.0]oct-3-
ylidene}-pentanoic acid . Iloprost is an oily substance, very slightly soluble in water. Due to its chiral 
centers, iloprost is an optically active diastereoisomeric mixture which also exhibits geometric (-Z- E-) 
isomerism. 
The synthesis of Iloprost can be divided into three parts: 
- 
- 
- 
(1) the manufacture of the basic backbone bicyclo-octane (BCO). 
(2) Addition of the side chain. 
(3) Modification of the side chains.  
Particular  attention  is  paid  to  isomeric/stereochemical  control  and  the  process  involves  optical 
resolution  by  preparative  HPLC  on  a  chirally-modified  substrate,  in  order  to  obtain  desired 
enantiomers.  Chromatography  is  necessary  at  a  number  of  stages  and  relevant  diastereoisomers  are 
separated by HPLC during the process.  
Iloprost possesses 6 asymmetrical carbon atoms of which 5 are common with the those in the natural 
prostacyclin. The  configuration  of the  molecule is therefore namely  8S, 9S, 11R, 12S and 15S. The 
methyl  group  at  C16  causes  two  isomers  to  occur:  16R  and  16S.  Consequently,  iloprost  consists  of 
two  optically  active  diastereoisomers.  Iloprost  also  contains  two  defined  configurations  of  carbon-
carbon  double  bonds,  5E  and  13E  -  this  stereo-specific  formation  is  common  in  prostaglandin 
chemistry. 
The separated  methyl  diastereoisomers E(16S)  and E(16R) -iloprost are  obtained  as  crystals and the 
isomer ratio has been determined. This ratio is [45/55 ] of [E(16S) / E(16R)] and has been shown to be 
unchanged  since  the  pre-clinical  and  clinical  development  program  began.  Moreover,  it  was  shown 
that there was no significant difference in the pharmacokinetic parameters  of the E (16R)-iloprost, E 
(16S)-iloprost and diastereoisomer mixture. Further data (i.v. infusion in dogs) demonstrated that the 
diastereoisomers do not undergo inter-conversion in vivo. 
2/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  structure  of  Iloprost  has  been  confirmed  by  IR,  NMR,  SM  and  X-ray  spectroscopy  as 
well as mechanistic arguments derived from the synthetic route. Solid state variables related 
to bioavailability are not relevant as the substance is administered in solution. 
Active substance specification 
The specification includes tests for identity, specific optical rotation, assay determination of identitifed 
and  unidentified  related  substances  by  HPLC;  Z-  isomers  are  quantified  separately.  Levels  of  those 
related impurities, which are mentioned in the specification are qualified by animal toxicology studies. 
The isomer ratio E(16R):E(16S) is also checked. 
The  level  of  residual  solvents  and  catalysts  are  adequately  discussed  and  are  acceptable  taking  into 
account  the  small  therapeutic  quantities  in  which  iloprost  is  administered.  Batch  analytical  data 
indicate satisfactory compliance with the agreed specification and uniformity from batch to batch. 
Stability of the active substance 
Prostaglandins  in  general  are  unstable  substances.  The  stability  of  iloprost  has  been  studied  under 
forced  degradation  conditions,  and  for  three  batches,  stability  studies  have  been  carried  out  in long 
term  (at  –18°C  for  three  years)  and  under  accelerated  conditions  (at  +6°C  /  uncontrolled  RH  for  6 
months and at +25°C / 60% RH for 1month). The samples used for long term and accelerated stability 
studies were stored in glass vials . 
iloprost-11-iloprost  ester  and 
iloprost-15-iloprost  ester  were 
These stressing conditions show that iloprost is sensitive to temperature, light and acid conditions as 
expected, and that the substance is not sensitive to alkalis and oxygen. 
15ß-Hydroxy-iloprost,  15-Oxo-iloprost,  iloprost  -ethyl-  and  iloprost-isopropyl  ester  and  the  dimeric 
esters 
the  main 
decomposition products. 
After  36  months  storage  at  -18  °C  the  samples  of  iloprost  show  a  time  dependent  tendency  of  a 
decrease  of  the  content  of  iloprost  accompanied  by  a  minor  increase  of  the  main  decomposition 
products  iloprost  -11-iloprost  ester  and  iloprost  -15-iloprost  ester.  After  longer  storage  periods,  the 
decrease does not continue. Changes in other parameters such as appearance, isomer ratio E(4R)/E(4S) 
and Z-isomers are not time-dependent . 
At  higher  temperatures,    +6  °C  and  +25  °C/60  %  RH,  iloprost  decomposes  significantly.  The  oily 
substance  crystallizes  and  gets  turbid,  the  amount  of  decomposition  products  increases,  particularly 
the  inner  iloprost  esters  iloprost-11-iloprost  ester  and  iloprost  -15-iloprost  ester  and  the  content  of 
iloprost  decreases,  both  below  the  specification  limits.  Isomer  ratio  and  the  amount  of  Z-isomer 
remain unchanged however. 
identified  as 
It is clear that iloprost is an unstable substance and must be stored with care. A three years shelf- life 
with a re-test period of one year is acceptable when the active substance is stored sealed at –18° C and 
protected from light. (For stability of finished product: see below). 
Other ingredients 
The ingredients of the formulation are defined in the SPC. All are of PhEur standard and there are no 
significant risks in relation to TSE. 
Product development and finished product 
Product Development 
Development of the  formulation is simple and is governed by the  need to produce a sterile, isotonic 
solution suitable for nebulisation without the need for any extraneous excipients, which may have an 
adverse  effect  when  given  by  the  pulmonary  route.  The  product  can  withstand  terminal  heat 
sterilisation. 
3/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the overall development history, it should be noted that clinical trials were not performed with this 
product  as  intended  for  marketing.  They  were  performed  with  solutions  prepared  from  another, 
intravenous,  product  already-authorised,  containing  20  µ g  iloprost  /  ml,  diluted  with  isotonic  saline 
(1:1)  and  nebulised  for  pulmonary  administration.  The  same  amount  of  active  substance  would  be 
administered  in  both  cases;  differences  in  safety  profiles  arising  from  different  formulations  and 
excipients used were regarded as not significant. 
Use with inhalation devices 
In  vitro  performance  tests  were  performed  with  the  product  nebulised  with  different  inhalation 
devices.  The  goal  of  those  studies  was  to  evaluate  the  performance  characteristics  of  the  different 
inhalation  devices  and  to  compare  those  with  the  device  used  in  the  clinical  trials.  On  the  basis  of 
these investigations, relevant  information has been included in the SPC to indicate  which inhalation 
devices can be used since they met the experimental parameters.  
Manufacture of the Product 
In summary, the manufacturing process is: dissolution of trometamol and sodium chloride in water for 
injection,  a  dissolution  of  Iloprost  in  ethanol  and  a  mixing  of  the  2  phases,  followed  by  a  pH 
adjustment, a volume adjustment, and a filtration on a 0.22 µm filter. After filling of the solution, the 
ampoules are sealed and sterilized at 121°C for 20 min, and visually checked. Satisfactory in process 
controls are carried out: bulk pH, integrity of the filter membrane, yield, filled volume etc. 
Concerning the validation of the  manufacturing process, the results are those of the validation of the 
intravenous  solution,  which  is  more  concentrated.  They  indicate  the  good  stability  of  the  drug  in 
ethanolic or unbuffered solution during 24 hours at room temperature. There are no adsorption losses 
of  the  drug  during  the  process,  and  there  is  no  significant  degradation  after  one  or  two  sterilisation 
cycles.  The  validation  studies  also  show  that  the  bulk  solution  after  filtration  is  essentially  free  of 
microorganisms prior to terminal sterilisation. 
Product Specification 
At  release,  the  product  is  examined  for  appearance  of  the  solution,  pH  value,  extractable  volume, 
identification  of  iloprost  and  trometamol,  sterility.  The  assay  of  iloprost  and  determination  of 
impurities are performed by validated HPLC methods. 
Batch analytical data show good product uniformity. 
Identical specifications are applied at release and end of shelflife. 
The limits for degradation products are based on results generated in the stability studies.  
Stability of the product 
Stability studies  have been  carried out on three batches under ICH conditions. The batches  meet the 
specification after 6 months' storage at + 40 °C/75% RH and after 18 months‘ storage at + 25 °C/60% 
RH and 30 °C/70% RH.  
All three batches exhibit no significant changes on storage compared to the results at start.. 
In general, the results support the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The synthetic control and purity of iloprost active substance has been well-described, in particular the 
isomeric  control  during  synthesis  and  general  purity  aspects  as  reflected  in  the  active  substance 
specification.  As  expected, this prostanoid is intrinsically  unstable and  must be stored  frozen at low 
temperature.  Furthermore,  the  chosen  manufacturing  process  and  the  specification  for  the  finished 
product  will  allow  a  good  quality  of  this  medicinal  product.  Stability  of  the  product  has  also  been 
shown to be satisfactory when due allowance is made for the unstable nature of the active substance.  
The  compatibility  of  this  product  with  commercially-available  nebulisation  devices  available  in  the 
EU is addressed in the Clinical section below and in the SPC.  
In general, the information provided in the Chemical and Pharmaceutical documentation suggests this 
is a product that should have satisfactory and uniform quality characteristics from batch to batch. 
4/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the time of the opinion, there was an unresolved minor pharmaceutical issue on the validation of 
the manufacturing process having no impact on the benefit/risk balance of the product. The applicant 
committed to resolve this by means of a post-opinion Follow-Up Measure within an agreed timeframe.   
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies 
Iloprost is a raceme mixture of E-4R- and E-4S- diastereoisomers; it binds with high affinity both to 
prostacyclin (IP-) receptors and to the EP1-subtype of prostaglandin E receptors. Binding of iloprost to 
IP-receptors  activates  adenylate  cyclase  and  increases  intracellular  cyclic  AMP  concentration.  This 
iloprost-induced rise of cAMP alters gene expression of IP-receptors.  
Human pulmonary vascular tissue was shown to respond to iloprost with vasorelaxation and this was 
also seen, but to a lesser extent, in human pulmonary artery preparations from patients with pulmonary 
hypertension.  However,  in  isolated  normoxic-perfused  rat  lung  iloprost  did  not  lower  pulmonary 
artery  pressure,  but  it  potently  inhibited  hypoxia-induced  vasoconstriction.  These  differences  are 
presumably due to variations of the expression of functional IP-receptors. 
In vitro, iloprost  was shown to  dilate blood vessels  from a  number  of species  pre-contracted  with  a 
variety  of  vasoconstrictors  (histamine,  noradrenaline,  angiotensine  II).  The  E-4S-isomer  of  iloprost 
has a potency in vitro of approximately 3 times that of iloprost, whereas the E-4R-isomer is about 4 
times less potent than iloprost. 
Iloprost  is  a  common  pathway  inhibitor  of  platelet  activation,  acting  via  binding  to  platelet  IP-
receptors and has been shown to inhibit aggregation in vitro of platelets from several species (human, 
dog, cat, rat, cattle and monkey), with IC50 concentrations ranging from 0.06 ng/ml (1.6 × 10–10 M in 
humans) to 4.3 ng/ml (1.2 × 10-8 M in monkeys). With regard to inhibition of platelet aggregation in 
human platelet-rich-plasma (PRP), iloprost has a potency of approximately twice that of prostacyclin 
and 17 times that of PGE1. Similarly to the vascular effects, the E-4S-isomer is approximately 1.5 to 2 
times  as  potent  as  iloprost  in  inhibiting  platelet  aggregation  and  the  E-4R-isomer  4  to  7  times  less 
potent.  
Further,  in  vitro,  iloprost  was  shown  to  reduce  the  LPS-induced  up-regulation  of  pro-inflammatory 
tumour  necrosis  factor  and  in  human  and  animal  monocytic  cells  and  monocytic/macrophage  cell 
lines. 
In vivo studies 
For  technical  reasons,  most  in  vivo  data  have  been  obtained  using  intravenous  administration  of 
iloprost. The summary of pharmacodynamic studies performed by the intravenous route in support of 
the  Ilomedin  application  is  presented.  There  are  no  pharmacodynamic  animal  studies  using  inhaled 
iloprost, since the intravenous and oral studies have demonstrated that its inhibitory action on platelet 
aggregation and vasodilatation is due to iloprost binding to the PGI2 receptors. 
The pharmacodynamic properties of iloprost are those expected for a prostacyclin analogue. 
Iloprost  has  shown  vasodilatory  effect  on  pulmonary  and  systemic  blood  vessels  in  various  animal 
species,  with  variations  presumably  depending  on  the  distribution  of  functional  IP-receptors.  In 
pulmonary  hypertension  animal  models,  iloprost  treatment  leads  in  vivo  to  an  improvement  or 
normalisation of pulmonary haemodynamics by reduction in vascular resistance and consequently in 
arterial  blood  pressure.  Leukocyte  adhesion  to  damaged  endothelium  in  vivo,  and  leukocyte 
accumulation  in  tissue  following  injury  is  reduced  by  iloprost.  Iloprost  has  shown  platelet 
antiaggregatory  and  antithrombotic  effects,  favorable  effects  on  microvascular  perfusion  and 
microvascular integrity  and inhibition  of leukocyte-vessel  wall interactions. Iloprost is  characterized 
as a  common pathway inhibitor of  aggregation  of  human platelets and  from  varying  animal species, 
probably  by  increasing  the  endogenous  fibrinolytic  potential  in  vivo.  Moreover,  iloprost  is  able  to 
inhibit the procoagulant activity of monocytic cells stimulated with LPS, TNFα or IL-1β. 
Continuous administration of iloprost does not seem to result in loss of vasodilator response, although 
loss of the platelet inhibitory  effect of the  compound  on  continuous exposure  has been shown. With 
5/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
regard to antithrombotic effects, somewhat reduced efficacy to platelet inhibition was seen following 
continuous intravenous infusion  for 9 days. Development  of tachyphylaxis to the anti-platelet  effect 
can be avoided by discontinuous treatment. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Iloprost  has  been  tested  in  combination  with  a  number  of  other  cardiovascular  drugs.  No  major 
unexpected interactions were found. 
In animal studies, combinations of iloprost with other vasodilator principles resulted in most cases in 
sub-additive  or  additive  systemic  blood  pressure  lowering  effects.  An  exception  to  this  was  the 
markedly  super-additive  effect  on  blood  pressure  seen  with  the  combination  of  a  moderately 
hypotensive  dose  of  an  ACE  inhibitor  (captopril)  with  a  non-hypotensive  dose  of  iloprost. 
Pretreatment with dexamethasone attenuated the blood pressure lowering effect of iloprost, but had no 
influence  on  the  antiplatelet  effect.  Iloprost  did  not  influence  the  positive  inotropic  response  to  the 
cardiac glycoside ouabain. 
With regard to the effects on platelets and coagulation, synergistic inhibition of platelet aggregation in 
vitro  was  seen  for  combinations  of 
the 
phosphodiesterase inhibitor piroximone. Combination with anticoagulants such as heparin may result 
in increased bleeding time. Under certain conditions, combination of iloprost with tissue plasminogen 
activator has been shown to reduce plasma t-PA concentration, and may therefore reduce thrombolytic 
efficacy.  
iloprost  with  acetylsalicylic  acid,  NO-donors  or 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
Effects of iloprost have been studied on the central and autonomic nervous system and on the cardiac, 
respiratory,  renal,  gastrointestinal  and  female  reproductive  systems.  The  results  of  these  studies 
performed in animals and in vitro can be summarized as follows: 
• 
Iloprost showed limited direct positive inotropic or chronotropic effects in cardiac tissue in vitro 
that probably  do  not influence  its  cardiovascular  effects in vivo. The  compound improved the 
circulatory  shock  provoked  by  ovalbumin  injection  in  cats,  which  had  previously  undergone 
passive pre-sensitisation.  
No effects on cardiac action potential, no pro-arrhythmic effects in vitro and in vivo in rats and 
mice.  
Symptoms of depression (probably due to exaggerated pharmacological effects, e.g. peripheral 
vasodilatation and hypotension) and, at high doses, of CNS/autonomic stimulation in rats.  
No deleterious effects on respiratory function in vitro and in vivo in rabbits.  
Decreased urine flow and sodium excretion at hypotensive doses, which is rapidly reversed on 
cessation of administration in rats.  
Contractile effects  on isolated ileum, little effect  or decreased  motility and antidiarrhoeic/anti-
enteropooling effects (depending on model system) in vivo in rats and rabbits.  
Uterine  contractile  (guinea-pig)  or  biphasic  (human)  effects  in  vitro.  No  effect  on  uterine 
pressure and motility in vivo in anaesthetized rabbits, induction of abortion at near-lethal doses 
in guinea pigs. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
None  of  the  studies  on  the  effects  of  iloprost  in  various  organ  systems  indicate  a  potential  of  the 
compound to induce serious adverse effects in the therapeutic dose range. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Preclinical pharmacokinetic data are mainly based on conventional routes of drug administration, i.e. 
the intravenous, oral and subcutaneous routes. The pharmacokinetics of pharmacological to subtoxic 
doses of iloprost was studied in rodents (rat, mouse and rabbit) and non-rodent species (cat, dog and 
cynomolgus monkey).  
The pharmacokinetics of iloprost is characterized by very rapid and presumably complete absorption 
from  the  gastrointestinal  tract  in  the  rat,  dog  and  cynomolgus  monkey.  The  bioavailability  of  orally 
administered  drug  was  approximately  10%  of  the  dose  in  all  species  studied  (rat,  mouse,  dog, 
monkey), including humans. The disposition half-life of unchanged iloprost was below 15 min in the 
rat, monkey and dog and about 0.5 h in the cat and in humans. 
6/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following administration, it rapidly distributes into organs and tissues (with minor passage across the 
blood-brain  and  blood-placenta  barriers)  and  is  extensively  biotransformed  prior  to  excretion 
(preferentially via the kidney). 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  iloprost  was  further  studied  after  inhalative  daily  administration  in  rats. 
Iloprost serum concentrations rapidly increased reaching Cmax 1 to2 hours after start of inhalation. At 
the doses used (3.6 to 43.7 µ g/kg), average Cmax and AUC0-t were several times those observed in men 
given 5 µg iloprost by inhalation. No important differences were observed in Cmax and AUC0-t between 
sexes  and  between  treatment  days.  The  systemic  exposure  increased  sub-proportionally  with 
increasing the dose (3.6 to 43.7 µ g/kg) and proportionally with prolonging the inhalation period (from 
135 to 240 min). 
Iloprost  isomers  exhibited  a  similar  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  in  rats.  No  conversion  of  4R  to  4S 
iloprost (and vice versa) occurred. The relevant half-life of labelled compounds in plasma was similar 
(0.7  h)  in  all  animal  species  studied  (rat,  monkey,  dog,  mouse  and  cat).  Distribution  of  3H-active 
substances into tissues and organs was very rapid. However, concentrations were very low except for 
the liver, kidneys, muscle and stomach. In rabbit foetuses, concentrations of labelled compounds were 
1/200 as compared to maternal plasma. 
Iloprost was totally metabolised in all species studied and the biodegradation products were excreted 
mainly  with  the  urine.  Main  biotransformation  pathways  of  iloprost  were  β-oxidation  of  the  upper 
side-chain and hydroxylation at position 17. 
Toxicology 
Preclinical safety tests included intravenous, subcutaneous and oral studies  in rodent and non-rodent 
species.  Since  the  systemic  iloprost  exposure  after  parenteral  and  oral  administration  exceeds  the 
therapeutic inhalative  dose levels in  humans, it was  considered that specific studies  of its inhalatory 
toxicity are not crucial. Complementary studies were carried out primarily to ensure the comparability 
of  the  effects  after  inhalation  to  those  observed  after  iloprost  oral  or  intravenous  administration 
(“bridging” studies). All studies were done according to GLP rules. 
Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  toxicity  studies  were  carried  out  in  three  rodent  species  (mouse,  rat,  and  rabbit)  and  in 
monkey,  by  oral  or  intravenous  administration.  Any  acute  inhalation  toxicity  study  could  not  be 
carried  out  because  of  technical  impossibility  to  exceed  0,345  µg  of  Iloprost  per  air  liter,  a 
concentration that does not induce any adverse effect in the animal, even after chronic treatment.  
Design and results (LD50) of systemic toxicity tests with a single intravenous (i.v.) and 
intragastric (i.g.) administration: 
Species 
Dose (mg/kg) 
Number of animals 
per dose and sex 
Route of administration 
MOUSE  
Rat 
Rabbit 
Monkey 
Mouse 
Rat 
125 to 250 
125 to 300 
50 to 200 
65 to 200 
2.5 to 25 
2.5 and 5 
40 to 100 
40 to 100 
10M 
10F 
5M/5F 
5M/5F 
3M/3F 
1M/1F 
3M 
3M 
M = male, F = female, i.v. = intravenous, i.g; = intragastric 
i.v. 
i.v. 
i.v. 
i.v. 
i.v. 
i.v. 
i.g. 
i.g. 
LD50-values and 
95% confidence limits  
(mg/kg) 
201 (179-244) 
204 (168-247) 
119 (85-164) 
M: 128 (92-216) 
F: 144 (116-201) 
9.8 (5.5-16.0) 
> 5 
> 100 
> 100 
The  values  of  LD50  are  much  higher  than  the  human  therapeutic  doses  corresponding  to  six to  nine 
administrations per inhalation between five and ten minutes of 2,5 or 5 µg of Iloprost. These human 
therapeutic doses correspond to an intake of 30 to 45 µg/day of Iloprost i.e 0,5 to 0,75 µg/kg/day. 
7/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical  symptoms,  which  appeared  right  from  low  dose,  are  common  to  all  species.  Most  of  the 
clinical symptoms at high dose such as apathy, changes of posture, redness of the skin and the mucous 
membranes  can  be  attributed  to  an  exaggerated  pharmacological  activity  of  the  compound 
(hypotensive  and  hemodynamic  effects).  The  necrosis  of  the  tail  observed  in  surviving  animals 
sacrificed at the end of the study is most probably due to local irritating properties of Iloprost at the 
high concentrations required for these studies.  
Based on the administered doses and the LD50 obtained, in spite of the absence of animal data on the 
levels  of  exposure  after  inhalation,  no  special  hazard  is  expected  after  the  single  administration  of 
iloprost via inhalation. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Subacute toxicity studies were performed by the oral route in rats and monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) 
by  repeated  intragastric administration  of  Iloprost  solution,  and  by  the  intravenous  route  in  rats  and 
monkeys  (Macaca  fascicularis)  with  repeated  intravenous  infusion  over  3  hours  and  continuous 
intravenous infusion of Iloprost. 
For the assessment of local and systemic toxicity of iloprost after inhalative administration, Wistar rats 
were  exposed  by  inhalation  to  three  target  concentrations  generated  by  nebulization  of  iloprost    10 
µg/mL formulation (corresponding to target doses of 0.9, 3.6 and 10.8 µg/kg) and two concentrations 
of iloprost 20 µg/mL (corresponding to target doses of 0.9 and 24.6 µg/kg) daily for 135 minutes on 
seven  days a  week  for 28 days. The selection  of dose levels is based  on multiples  of the  maximum 
human therapeutic dose level of 0.9 µ g/kg/day. The duration of exposure was selected to simulate the 
clinical treatment regimen of a maximum of 9 exposure cycles of 15 minutes duration daily.  
After 4 weeks inhalation in the rat with an amount considered as maximum from a technical point of 
view,  there  was  no  difference  in  toxic  effect  (clinical,  biological  and  histological)  between  the 
different concentrations of Iloprost during or after the exposure. After histological examination of the 
respiratory tract, no sign of local irritation was observed. 
Summary of the relevant doses for evaluation of systemic tolerance of iloprost after inhalation 
or i.v. administration (subacute toxicity). 
Treatment regimen 
Species 
Inhalation for 135 minutes/day 
over 28 days 
Rat 
i.v. infusion over 3 hours/day  
(10-11 treatment days) 
Rat 
Monkey 
Continuous i.v. infusion over 
28 days 
Rat 
Monkey2] 
Doses which were tolerated 
without symptoms or with minor 
effects 
Multiple of the intended human 
dose1] on the basis of 
mg/kg/day 
µg/kg/min 
mg/kg/day 
µg/kg/min 
0.0226 
0.167 
25 
16.7 
0.2 
0.002 
1.11 
0.011 
222 
2.2 
111 
1.1 
0.2 (124) 
0.02 (12.4) 
0.139 (0.09) 
0.014 (0.009) 
222 (138) 
22.2 (13.8) 
13.9 (9) 
1.4 (1) 
1] Human therapeutic dose per inhalation session of 10 minutes: 5 µg/patient of 50 kg = 0.1 µg/kg/10 min session 
= 0.01 µg/kg/min. For 9 sessions of 10 minutes/day the total dose is 0.9 µg/kg. 
All  iloprost  related  alterations  found  in  the  subacute  toxicity  studies  after  different  routes  of 
administration  in  rodents  and  non-rodents  are  mainly  attributed  to  the  hemodynamic  properties  of 
iloprost.  At  very  high  exposure  levels,  the  hemodynamic  changes  led  to  the  death  of  experimental 
animals,  however  direct  organ  toxicity  was  not  observed.  Considering  a  single  inhalation  dose  of  5 
µg/patient (= 0.1 µg/kg for a patient of 50 kg body weight for 10 minutes) administered up to 9 times a 
day  as the intended  mode  of application, it  can be  concluded that  on the basis of total administered 
dose/day and on the basis of dose/kg/min, many times higher dosages of iloprost were tolerated in rats 
after  inhalation  than  after  administration  via  the  intravenous  or  oral  routes  of  administration.  In 
8/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
monkeys, which were more sensitive to iloprost, the doses that were tolerated without or with minor 
symptoms after parenteral and oral administration were in the same range or slightly above the dose 
levels of human inhalative therapeutic treatment. 
Chronic toxicity studies were carried out in rats and dogs by intravenous or subcutaneous continuous 
infusion or oral administration of Iloprost over 6 months. A chronic inhalation toxicity study was 
conducted in rats over 26 weeks (periods of 135 or 240 min/day).  
Continuous  infusion  of  Iloprost  up  to  the  highest  dose  of  347  ng/kg/min  (0.5  mg/kg/day)  over  26 
weeks in rats did not produce any organ-toxic effect, but slight effects related to the pharmacological 
profile  of  the  compound.  The  mean  plasma  levels  of  Iloprost  at  the  highest  dose  were  for  females  
3.5 ng/ml and for males 5.0 ng/ml. In dogs, continuous s.c. infusion of iloprost up to the highest dose 
of 67 ng/kg/min (0.097  mg/kg/day)  over 26  weeks  did  not produce  any  organ-toxic damage, though 
adverse  effects  related  to  gastrointestinal  motility  could  be  observed  transiently  from  the  mid-dose 
(33-34 ng/kg/min; 0.049 mg/kg/day) leading to mean plasma levels of 0.9 ng/ml onwards. The mean 
plasma  levels  of  Iloprost  at  the  highest  dose  were  1.6  and  2.1  ng/ml  in  female  and  male  animals, 
respectively. 
The daily inhalative administration of a nebulizing solution of Iloprost at a concentration of 20 µ g/ml 
over 26  weeks  in rats, with a  maximum technically  achievable aerosol  concentration  which led to  a 
maximum achievable dose of 48.7 µ g/kg body weight, did not cause adverse effects. The technically 
possible maximum amount (0,4 µg/l air) corresponding to 0,203 µg/kg/min (human: 0,01 µg/kg/min) 
is approximately 200 times the human amount. 
The systemic burden in the male rats at the highest dose amounted to Cmax values of approx. 2.1 ng/ml 
and in female rats to 2.9 ng/ml and average AUC value of 372 ngxmin/ml.  
The exposure obtained is 13-18 times and 127 times higher, respectively in terms of Cmax and of AUC, 
than that obtained in humans during a single inhalation session of 10 min. 
In summary, in the systemic tolerance studies after inhalation or  continuous i.v./s.c. infusion  or  oral 
administration, multiples of the intended human dose of Iloprost were tolerated without any symptoms 
or with minor changes due to the pharmacological effects of the compound. Therefore, on the basis of 
the results obtained in systemic tolerance studies, no adverse effects are to be expected at the intended 
human therapeutic inhalative dose. 
9/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduction toxicity 
The  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  performed  include  fertility  and  general 
reproductive performance in male and female rats, embryotoxicity in rats, rabbits, and monkeys, and 
peri-  and  postnatal  development  in  rats  after  continuous  i.v.  infusion.  The  oral  treatment  is 
documented by a combined study of fertility, reproductive performance, and on embryonic and peri- 
postnatal development in rats and an embryotoxicity study in rabbits using iloprost clathrate. 
In  embryo- and  foetotoxicity studies in rats, continuous intravenous administration of iloprost led to 
anomalies of single phalanges of the forepaws in a few foetuses/pups without dose-dependence. These 
alterations are not considered as true teratogenic effects, but are most likely related to iloprost induced 
growth retardation in late organogenesis due to hemodynamic alterations in the fetoplacental unit. In 
comparable  embryotoxicity  studies  in  rabbits  and  monkeys,  no  such  digit  anomalies  or  other  gross-
structural abnormalities were observed in the foetuses/pups up to the highest tested dose. 
In rats, passage of extremely low levels of iloprost into the milk was observed. 
Because of the occurrence of digit anomalies in individual foetuses in reproductive and developmental 
toxicity  studies  in  the  rat,  iloprost  should  not  be  used  in  women  during  pregnancy.  Women  of 
childbearing potential should  use  effective  contraceptive  measures  during treatment. It is not  known 
whether  Ventavis  enters  the  breastmilk  in  humans.  The  medicinal  product  must  therefore  not  be 
administered to breastfeeding mothers. These elements are covered in the SPC and Package Leaflet.   
Genotoxicity 
All  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  tests  indicate  that  iloprost  is  not  mutagenic  up  to  cytotoxic  concentrations 
tested. Iloprost is not a gene mutagen in bacterial and mammalian cells in vitro and is not clastogenic 
in human lymphocytes up to cytotoxic concentrations and in the micronucleus test in vivo. 
Carcinogenicity 
In  long-term  carcinogenicity  studies  in  rats  and  mice,  no  drug  related  neoplastic  or  non-neoplastic 
organ  toxicity  was  observed.  No  tumorigenic  potential  of  iloprost  could  be  demonstrated  in 
tumorigenicity studies in rats and mice. 
Local tolerance  
In the subacute (4 weeks) and chronic (6 months) inhalation toxicity studies in rats no signs of local 
irritation in the respiratory tract were observed, even for an iloprost solution with a concentration of 20 
µg/ml, which is double the concentration to be used for therapeutics in human patients.  
Antigenicity 
Studies in guinea-pigs did not reveal any antigenicity and immunotoxicity of iloprost. 
Ecotoxicity / environmental risk assessment 
The predicted no-effect concentration (PNEC) in water was > 20 µ g/l, which means that the estimated 
occurrence  of  iloprost  in  surface  waters  is  of  no  concern.  The  potential  occurrence  in  soil  is 
insignificant.  The  route  of  administration  of  iloprost  by  inhalation  does  not  seem  to  enhance  the 
environmental  risk.  Exposure  to  the  environment  is  considered  very  limited  and  no  risk  of  concern 
would be expected. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Iloprost  affects  many  cell  types,  including  smooth  muscle  cells,  platelets,  endothelial  vascular  cells 
and  mononuclear  leucocytes.  Some  of  the  main  pharmacological  actions  of  iloprost  include 
vasodilatation, preservation of endothelial function, inhibition of platelet aggregation and of monocyte 
activation.  The  action  of  iloprost  is  very  similar  to  PGI2,  from  which  it  differs  mainly  in  its  oral 
bioavailability and lesser vasodilatory potency. 
Iloprost  has  also  been  shown  to  lower  pulmonary  artery  pressure  in  animal  models  of  pulmonary 
hypertension.  Its  potency  to  inhibit  pulmonary  vasoconstriction  and  reduce  pulmonary  vascular 
resistance  together  with  platelet  anti-aggregatory  and  antithrombotic  activity,  effects  on  vascular 
remodelling and on endothelial function and inhibition of some aspects of inflammation, seem to be in 
favour of the proposed therapeutic treatment.  
10/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacological profile of iloprost has been characterised in a number of species under a variety 
of  experimental  conditions.  For  technical  reasons,  most  in  vivo  data  have  been  obtained  using 
intravenous  administration  of  iloprost.  Pharmacokinetic  data  show  rapid  systemic  bioavailability  of 
iloprost  following 
iloprost  serum 
concentrations  increased  reaching  Cmax  within  1  to  2  hours.  The  systemic  exposure  increased  sub-
proportionally  with  increasing  the  dose  (3.6  to  43.7  µ g/kg)  and  proportionally  with  prolonging  the 
inhalation  period  (135  to  240  min).  Although  the  inhalation  route  of  administration  will  provide  a 
better targeting of the drug substance, marked differences in pharmacodynamic responses to iloprost 
between the systemic and inhalational routes of administration are not expected.  
inhalative  daily  administration 
inhalation.  After 
in  rats 
The toxicology programme is  mainly based  on intravenous, subcutaneous and  oral studies in rodent 
and  non-rodent  species.  The  systemic  iloprost  exposure  after  parenteral  and  oral  administration 
exceeds the therapeutic inhalative dose levels in humans. 
In  acute  toxicity  studies,  single  intravenous  and  oral  doses  of  iloprost  caused  severe  symptoms  of 
intoxication or death at doses about two orders of magnitude above the intravenous therapeutic dose. 
Considering  the  high  pharmacological  potency  of  iloprost  and  the  absolute  doses  required  for 
therapeutic  purposes,  the  results  obtained  in  acute  toxicity  studies  do  not  indicate  a  risk  of  acute 
adverse  effects  in  humans.  As  expected  for  a  prostacyclin,  iloprost  produced  hemodynamic  effects 
(vasodilatation, reddening of skin, hypotension, inhibition of platelet function, respiratory distress) and 
general signs of intoxication such as apathy, gait disturbances, and postural changes. 
Continuous i.v./s.c. infusion of iloprost up to 26 weeks in rodents and non-rodents did not cause any 
organ toxicity at dose levels which exceeded the human therapeutic systemic exposure between 14 and 
47 times  (based  on  plasma  levels).  Based  on  Cmax  values  in  rats,  the  systemic  exposure  in  these 
parenteral  studies  was  approximately  3.5 times  higher  than  the  maximum  achievable  exposure  after 
inhalation.  
The only studies carried out with inhaled iloprost consist of one subacute toxicity 4 week-study and a 
chronic toxicity 26 week-study performed in rats. These studies were performed to assess both local 
tolerance and systemic effects and to provide information on exposure. 
The NOAEL are 22,6 µg/kg/day and 48,7 µ g/kg/day for the 4-week study and for the 26-week study, 
respectively.  The systemic exposure obtained after a single inhalation session (Cmax = ca. 158 ± 70 
pg/mL;  AUC  ca.  49  pg  x  h/mL))  is  comparable  with  that  obtained  after  therapeutic  continuous 
intravenous perfusion (135 pg/ml). Based on the results from preclinical inhalation toxicity studies, no 
deleterious  effects precluding the  use  of  inhaled iloprost in  humans  have been shown. Neither local 
nor  systemic  adverse  effects  were  observed  after  chronic  inhaled  treatment  with  a  maximum 
achievable  dose,  which  exceeded  the  systemic  exposure  of  human  patients,  achieved  by  inhalation 
administration approximately 13 times based on Cmax values and 127 times based on AUC values. 
No signs  of toxicity  were reported in  a repeated  dose study in rats (135  minutes/day  over 28  days), 
which mimicked the conditions of inhalatory administration in man. The maximum tolerated dose of 
iloprost (0.0226 mg/kg/day) was about 25 times that proposed for man (5 µg/ patient i.e. 0.1 µg/kg for 
a patient of 50 kg body weight for 10 minutes, administered up to 9 times a day).   
In the six-month chronic tolerance study in rats exposed to iloprost, doses resulting in plasma levels 
13-18 times higher than the human plasma levels found at therapeutic dose (5 µg/patient/session = 158 
± 70 pg/mL at cmax), did not cause adverse events.  
Iloprost does not appear to be mutagenic or carcinogenic. 
The potential adverse events might be due to the exaggerated pharmacological effects of iloprost at the 
high  doses  used  for  the  safety  animal  studies,  and  thus  its  therapeutic  dosage  should  be  kept  under 
close control and adjusted according to the individual tolerability. Iloprost may potentiate the effects 
of  other  vasodilators  and  anti-thrombotic  agents.  The  tachyphylaxis  of  platelet  inhibitory  effects 
observed during continuous iloprost infusion can be prevented by discontinuing the treatment. 
Because of the occurrence of digit anomalies in individual foetuses in reproductive and developmental 
toxicity  studies  in  the  rat,  iloprost  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  in  women.  No  data  are 
11/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
available  on the transfer of iloprost to the  human  milk; a  warning on iloprost  use in pregnancy  and 
during nursing women is provided in the SPC and Package Leaflet. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Iloprost, the active substance of Ventavis, is a synthetic prostacyclin analogue. Iloprost inhibits 
adenylate cyclase, thus increasing intracellular cyclic AMP levels.  
The following pharmacological effects have been observed in vitro: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Inhibition of platelet aggregation, platelet adhesion and release reaction. 
Dilatation of arterioles and venules. 
Increase of capillary density and reduction of increased vascular permeability caused by 
mediators such as serotonin or histamine in the microcirculation.  
Stimulation of endogenous fibrinolytic potential. 
The  pharmacological  data  in  humans  refers  to  the  dossier  provided  in  support  of  the  Ilomedine 
Marketing  Authorisation  Application  and  published  data  with  inhaled  iloprost.  No  clinical  trial  data 
are available for a direct comparison of intra-patient observations of the acute hemodynamic response 
after intravenous administration to that after inhalation of iloprost. 
Acute  testing  with  catheter  measurements  of  pulmonary  hemodynamic  parameters  have  shown  that 
after termination of aerosolization, iloprost-induced changes in pulmonary vascular resistance returned 
to  baseline  within  60  to  120  minutes  while  infusion  prostacycline  (epoprostenol)-induced  changes 
returned  to  baseline  within  10  to  30  minutes.  In  an  acute  testing  study,  increased  improvement  in 
arterial oxygenation was observed with inhaled iloprost, and this supports the preferential distribution 
to well ventilated areas and higher doses of locally deposited prostanoids leading to a probably lower 
undesirable  shunt  effect  as  compared  to  acute  testing  with  infusion  of  prostacyclin.  However,  and 
alike prostacycline, as the acute response  does  not in  all  cases  correlate  with a long-term  benefit  of 
treatment with inhaled iloprost, the predictive value of these acute hemodynamic data are considered 
to be  of limited value  for the  demonstration of the response and benefit of long-term treatment  with 
inhaled iloprost in patients with pulmonary hypertension.   The available pharmacodynamic data does 
not help to identify responders to the regular treatment with inhaled iloprost. Neither can it be clearly 
determined whether treatment re-start after discontinuation provides further advantages.  
Although in vitro studies have shown an effect of iloprost on platelet aggregation, it is not yet proven 
whether  plasma  concentrations  of  inhaled  iloprost  reach  sufficient  levels  to  exert  a  clinically 
significant  advantage  in  decreasing  the  tendency  of  the  blood  to  clot  in  patients  with  pulmonary 
hypertension similar to that of a conventional anticoagulant. There is no evidence that inhaled iloprost 
has a significant impact on the disease process through this mechanism.  
Pharmacodynamic interaction studies 
Two pharmacodynamic drug-drug interaction studies were performed with iloprost via the intravenous 
route  in  healthy  volunteers.  No  clinically  relevant  interactions  between  iloprost  and  single  dose 
nifedipine, medinpolol or pentoxifylline were detected during the first study in 12 healthy volunteers. 
In contrast to the findings in animal studies, the combination of iloprost and captopril had no clinically 
relevant  effect  on  blood  pressure,  heart  rate  and  peripheral  blood  flow  in  the  second  study  which 
included  10  healthy  volunteers.  However,  any  extrapolation  of  the  results  observed  in  healthy 
volunteers  to  patients  with  pulmonary  hypertension  would  be  excessive  since  they  often  experience 
altered and precarious hemodynamic conditions. Moreover, regarding beta-blockers little experience is 
available in this population since beta-blockers had to be  discontinued 4  weeks prior to  entry in the 
clinical study.  
Iloprost adds to the effect of vasodilators and antihypertensive agents. 
12/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Iloprost  can inhibit platelet  function and its use  with  anticoagulants (such  as heparin, coumarin-type 
anticoagulants)  or  other  inhibitors  of  platelet  aggregation  (such  as  acetylsalicylic  acid,  non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory  drugs,  ticlopidine,  clopidogrel  and  glycoprotein  IIb/IIIa  antagonists:  abciximab, 
eftifibatide  and  tirofiban)  may  increase  the  risk  of  bleeding.  A  careful  monitoring  of  the  patients 
taking anticoagulants according to common medical practice is recommended. The concomitant use of 
other platelet inhibitors should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants 
Intravenous infusion of iloprost has no effect either on the pharmacokinetics of multiple oral doses of 
digoxin or on the pharmacokinetics of co-administered tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) in patients. 
Although,  clinical  studies  have  not  been  conducted,  in  vitro  studies  investigating  the  inhibitory 
potential of iloprost on the activity of cytochrome P450 enzymes revealed that no relevant inhibition 
of drug metabolism via these enzymes, or enzyme induction by iloprost have to be expected.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Several pharmacokinetic studies  were performed  with iloprost via the intravenous and  oral  routes of 
administration.  However,  only  one  pharmacokinetic  study  has  been  performed  with  iloprost 
administered via the inhalation route (study AX15). One of the aims of this study was to compare the 
plasmatic levels of iloprost when administered with 3 different brands of nebulising devices including 
those  used  in  the  pivotal  and  the  supportive  clinical  trials.  No  traditional  ADME  studies  were 
performed via the inhaled route.  
In  study  AX15,  comparing  three  inhalation  devices  (HaloLite,  Ventstream,  Ilo-Neb),  a  total  of  13 
patients with pulmonary hypertension (PHT) (iloprost responders), 9 female, 4 male, aged between 26 
and  71  years,  were  treated  in  a  cross  over  design  with  a  dose  of  5 µg  iloprost  delivered  at  the 
mouthpiece. Mean droplet sizes were nearly identical for all devices with only minor differences in the 
droplet size distribution.  
Iloprost serum concentrations were measured by RIA before and at the end of inhalation as well as 2, 
5, 15, 30, 60 and 120 minutes thereafter. The pharmacokinetic parameters assessed were Cmax, Tmax, 
T1/2 and AUC.  
Inhalation Device 
HaloLite 
Ventstream 
Ilo-Neb 
Cmax 
pg/ml 
157 ± 64 
(n = 12) 
155 ± 65 
(n = 11) 
158 ± 70 
(n = 12) 
Disposition half-life 
Tmax 
 min 
12 ± 5 
(n = 12) 
11 ± 2 
(n = 11) 
12 ± 1 
(n = 12) 
T1/2 
 Min 
7.91 ± 3.16 
(n = 11) 
11.3 ± 6.8 
(n = 7) 
7.4 ± 2.1 
(n = 11) 
AUC 
pg.h/ml 
47.8 ± 35.2 
(n = 12) 
54.2 ± 45.1 
(n = 11) 
49.0 ± 34.4 
(n = 12) 
T1/2: 
AUC: calculated from t=0 until the first sampling time point with C(t) < 25 pg/ml (set to zero for evaluation) 
Serum levels reached the limit of detection between 15 and 30 minutes after inhalation, and no second 
half-life could be calculated.  
Similar  systemic  exposure  with  iloprost  was  achieved  with  all  three  devices.  The  ratios  of  Cmax 
means  and  AUC  means  between  treatments  were  close  to  unity.  However,  although  containing  the 
value 100%, the confidence intervals are very large (larger than 80-125%) reflecting great variabilities 
in systemic bioavailability  or the low  number  of patients. Therefore, these plasma level analyses  do 
not allow concluding that “bioequivalence” has been demonstrated between the different devices. 
13/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of pharmacokinetic characteristics of different modes of administration 
Mode of administration 
Single dose 
Intravenous infusion  
over 45 min 
Oral 
(immediate release formulation) 
Oral  
(extended release formulation) 
Inhaled 
3ng/kg/min 
1 µg/kg 
150 µg 
5 µg 
Systemically 
available dose 
(% bioavailability) 
ca. 9 µg 
(100%) 
ca. 14 µg 
(ca. 20%) 
ca. 30 µg 
(ca. 20%) 
ca. 4 µg 
(ca. 80%) 
Cmax  
pg/ml 
AUC  
pg.h/ml 
135 ± 24 
119 ± 34 
251± 32 
144 ± 58 
Report 
6210 
6210 
156 ± 69 
313 ± 148 
AS07 
157 ± 64 
48 ± 35 
AX15 
AUC: calculated from t=0 until the first sampling time point with C(t) < 25 pg/ml (set to zero for evaluation) 
in 
iloprost 
is  not  detectable 
The  pharmacokinetic  studies  performed  showed  that  when  iloprost  is  administered  via  inhalation  in 
patients  with  pulmonary  hypertension  (iloprost  dose  at  the  mouthpiece:  5 micrograms),  peak  serum 
levels of 100 to 200 picograms/ml were observed at the end of inhalation session. These levels decline 
with half-lives between approximately 5 and 25 minutes. Within 30 minutes to 1 hour after the end of 
inhalation, 
the  central  compartment  (limit  of  quantification 
25 picograms/ml). 
Following intravenous infusion, the apparent steady-state volume of distribution was 0.6 to 0.8 l/kg in 
healthy subjects. Total plasma protein binding of iloprost is concentration-independent in the range of 
30  to  3000 picograms/ml  and  amounts  to  approximately  60  %,  of  which  75  %  is  due  to  albumin 
binding. 
Iloprost  is  extensively  metabolised  principally  via  ß-oxidation  of  the  carboxyl  side  chain.  No 
unchanged  substance  is  eliminated.  The  main  metabolite  is  tetranor-iloprost,  which  is  found  in  the 
urine  in  free  and  conjugated  form  in  4 diastereoisomers.  Tetranor-iloprost  is  pharmacologically 
inactive as shown in animal  experiments. Results of  in vitro  studies reveal that CYP 450-dependent 
metabolism  plays  only  a  minor  role  in  the  biotransformation  of  iloprost.  Further  in  vitro  studies 
suggest  that  metabolism  of  iloprost  in  the  lungs  is  similar  after  intravenous  administration  or 
inhalation. 
In subjects  with  normal renal  and hepatic  function, the  disposition  of iloprost following intravenous 
infusion is characterised in most cases by a two-phase profile with mean half-lives of 3 to 5 minutes 
and 15 to 30 minutes.  
A mass-balance study was done using 3H-iloprost in healthy subjects. Following intravenous infusion, 
the recovery of total radioactivity is 81 %, and the respective recoveries in urine and faeces are 68 % 
and 12 %. The metabolites are eliminated from plasma and urine in 2 phases, for which half-lives of 
about 2 and 5 hours (plasma) and 2 and 18 hours (urine) have been calculated. 
Special groups 
are 
shown 
treatment 
In  a  study  with  intravenous  infusion  of  iloprost,  patients  with  end-stage  renal  failure  undergoing 
intermittent  dialysis 
clearance 
(mean CL = 5 ± 2 ml/minute/kg)  than  that  observed  in  patients  with  renal  failure  not  undergoing 
intermittent dialysis treatment (mean CL = 18 ± 2 ml/minute/kg). 
Because iloprost is extensively metabolised by the liver, the plasma levels of the active substance are 
influenced by changes in hepatic function. In an intravenous study, results were obtained involving 8 
patients  suffering  from  liver  cirrhosis.  The  mean  clearance  of  iloprost  is  estimated  to  be 
10 ml/minute/kg. 
Age and gender are not of clinical relevance to the pharmacokinetics of iloprost. 
significantly 
to  have 
lower 
a 
In vitro nebulisation devices comparison study (A13108) 
This study  compared the physical  features and nebulisation  characteristics of 6  nebulisation systems 
using  Ventavis  solution.  The  performance  parameters  were  MMAD,  MMD,    nebulisation  time  and 
dose (µ g) of iloprost at mouthpiece. Three jet-nebulisers devices: Prodose, HaloLite, Pari LC Star, and 
three ultrasonic  nebulisers: Optineb, Optineb  IR and  Multisonic Infracontrol have been investigated. 
The  aerosol output and time  of  nebulisation  were  determined by operating the  nebuliser  on a  breath 
14/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
simulator that  was  operated  with  a breath  frequency  of 15 breaths per  minute  and  a tidal volume  of 
500ml.  
Since  the  pivotal  clinical  trial  (see  discussion  on  clinical  efficacy  below)  was  performed  using 
inhalation  either  2.5  µg  iloprost  in  approximately  5  minutes  or  5  µ g  iloprost  in  approximately  10 
minutes,  the  applicant  considered  that  the  suitable  nebuliser  systems  should  deliver  2.5µ g-5  µ g 
iloprost over approximately 4-10 minutes to enable the bridging between in vivo (phase III study) and 
in vitro data. 
Based  on  the  results  of  the  new  in  vitro  study,  only  two  jet  nebulisers  systems  reached  the  above 
defined criteria and therefore have been recommended in the SPC for use with Ventavis; HaloLite and 
Prodose (2.5µg disk).  
For the dose of 5µg at mouth piece the applicant recommends to complete two inhalations cycles (pre 
set  dose 2.5  µg)  with  one  filling  of 2  ml (leading to an inhalation time of 8 to 10  minutes)  for both 
HaloLite and Prodose.  
The applicant considers that the tested models of the ultrasonic nebulisers were not appropriate with 
use  of Ventavis since they showed too  high output rates (up to 10 µg iloprost  at  mouthpiece in less 
than  3  minutes).    The  applicant  considered  that  not  more  than  5  µg  should  be  delivered  within  4 
minutes in order to avoid systemic side effects.  
The  dose  of 5µ g  could  not be reached  with  LC-Star since  only 4.5 µg  of  iloprost  were  delivered at 
mouthpiece  at  the  end  of  the  nebulisation  time  with  one  2  ml  ampoule.  The  dose-nebulisation  time 
relation was not determined and the nebulisation time allowing to deliver 2.5 µ g was not established.   
Clinical efficacy  
for  which  an 
The clinical documentation provided to assess the efficacy of inhaled iloprost in the claimed indication 
consisted of one pivotal study (report RR A02997) and two supportive studies; a phase II study (report 
RR  A00794) 
a 
pharmacokinetic/hemodynamic  study  (report  RR  AX15)  designed  to  compare  inhaled  iloprost 
administered  with  three  different  nebulising  devices.  The  final  report  of  the  phase II  study  (report 
RR A02237)  was  submitted  in  November  2002.  The  efficacy  data  also  refers  to  the  experience  of 
iloprost administered via the intravenous route in patients with pulmonary hypertension. The clinical 
trials were performed according to GCP standards and agreed international ethical principles. 
the  dossier  and 
report  was 
included 
interim 
in 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies: 
No formal dose-response study has been conducted with inhaled iloprost. The dosing rationale for the 
present  application  and  the  pivotal  clinical  study  was  based  on  intermediate  data  from  the  open 
labelled  study  (study  A00794),  publications  and  internal  reports.  The  phase  II  study  (RR  A00794/  
A02237) was initiated before the pivotal study (RR A02997) to investigate the appropriate approach to 
match the individual patient’s therapeutic need with tolerability. 
The  clinical  effects observed in the pivotal  study (RR A02997) of patients  with PHT were achieved 
with a median daily dose of 30 µg measured at the mouthpiece per day (range: 12.5 to 45 µ g delivered 
at the mouthpiece), corresponding to 6 daily inhalations of 5 µ g. More than 80% of patients used this 
median dose or a higher dose.  
The applicant made the assumption that a dose of 2.5 µg or 5 µ g delivered at the mouthpiece  with a 
daily inhalation  frequency of 6 to 9 to be applied according to the individual patient's needs should 
allow to  cover  up to 9-13.5 hours per day  during which iloprost improves the pulmonary  circulation 
depending on the duration of the individual pharmacodynamic response. This assumption is based on 
published  data  in  which  the  duration  of  hemodynamic  effects  after  acute  testing  was  60  to  120 
minutes.  
15/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pivotal study (RR A02997) 
Description of the study 
The  pivotal  study  (RR  A02997)  was  a  multicenter,  double  blind,  randomised,  2-arm  parallel-group, 
placebo-controlled  study  designed  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  inhaled  iloprost  over  12 
weeks in adult patients with primary or secondary pulmonary arterial hypertension. Patients were to be 
stable  in  NYHA  class  III  or  IV  for  the  preceding  4  weeks  despite  optimal  common  background 
therapy comprising anticoagulants, diuretics, digitalis, calcium channel blockers and/or supplemental 
oxygen.  The  study  treatment  was  added  to  the  background  therapy  for  pulmonary  hypertension. 
However,  patients  who  had  received 
therapy  with  prostanoids  or  prostaglandin  such  as 
PGI1/misoprostol  (intravenous  only)  and  PGI2  (prostacyclin  and  its  analogues)  within  6  months  of 
baseline  were  not  to  be  enrolled  into  the  study.  Moreover,  betablockers  had  to  be  discontinued  4 
weeks prior to entry into the study and were not allowed during the study. Patients with new treatment, 
instable doses of  calcium  channel blockers  within 6 weeks prior to baseline  or  with  critically severe 
pulmonary hypertension exhibiting signs according to predefined deterioration criteria within the two 
weeks preceding baseline, were also excluded prior to entry in the study.  
Patients with secondary pulmonary hypertension associated with systemic disorders who experienced 
significant  underlying  lung  disease  (i.e.  interstitial  pulmonary  disease,  active  fibrotic  disease, 
obstructive ventilatory disorders or global respiratory insufficiency) were not included.  
Patients  were  prospectively  stratified  for  pulmonary  hypertension  origin  (i.e.  primary  or  secondary) 
and  for the NYHA  class at baseline (III or IV). The patients were randomised  within the predefined 
strata to one of two treatment groups for 12 weeks: 
Active treatment - Inhalation of iloprost aerosol with an individually adapted total daily dose of 
30 µ g at the mouthpiece divided into six equal-dose inhalations of 5 µg. If this dose was tolerated, the 
total  daily  dose  was  to  be  increased  to  45  µg  at  the  mouthpiece  divided  into  nine  equal-dose 
inhalations of 5 µg. 
In case of poor tolerability of the single dose of 5 µ g at the mouthpiece, the dose was to be reduced to 
2.5 µg at the mouthpiece with a total daily dose of 15 µ g at the mouthpiece divided into six equal-dose 
inhalations of 2.5 µ g. If this dose was well tolerated, the total daily dose was to be increased to 22.5 
µg at the mouthpiece divided into nine equal-dose inhalations of 2.5 µg. 
Placebo - Inhalation of a corresponding aerosol placebo to be administered under the same conditions 
and dosage regimen above. 
The inhalation device (nebuliser) used throughout the study was HaloLite. 
In  total  203  patients  (male:  137;  female:  66)  were  randomised  (iloprost:  n=101;  placebo  =  102),  of 
whom  120  patients  were  assigned  to  NYHA  class  III  (58.6%)  and  83  patients  to  NYHA  class  IV 
(41.4%).  The  baseline  6-minute  walk  test  values  reflected  a  moderate  exercise  limitation:  in  the 
iloprost  group  the  mean  was  332  meters  (median  value:  340  meters)  and  in  the  placebo  group  the 
mean  was  315  meters  (median  value:  321  meters).  108  patients  were  diagnosed  with  primary 
pulmonary arterial hypertension (PPH) and 95 with secondary pulmonary hypertension (SPH). Among 
patients  with  secondary  pulmonary  hypertension,  56  patients  were  diagnosed  with  chronic 
thromboembolic disease, 34 with connective tissue disease (including CREST and scleroderma) and 4 
had secondary pulmonary hypertension associated with appetite suppressant medicinal products. 
Randomised patients were between 20 to 70 years of age (mean of age: 52.0 ± 12.6 years old).  
The treatment groups were comparable at baseline with regard to age, with the exception to the PPH/ 
class IV groups where patients tended to be younger in the iloprost group than in the placebo group. In 
both treatment groups, SPH patients tended to be older than the PPH patients with the SPH/ class IV 
group  showing  the  highest  mean  age.  The  treatment  groups  were  also  comparable  with  regard  to 
weight,  height  and  ethnic  origins.  The  overall  female  to  male  ratio  was  2:1  as  expected  for  this 
disease. 
16/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Primary efficacy variables: 
The primary efficacy objective of the study was based on a composite endpoint consisting of  
1) improvement in exercise capacity (6-minute walk test) at 12 weeks by at least 10% versus baseline, 
and 2) improvement by at least one NYHA class at 12 weeks versus baseline and 3) no deterioration 
of  pulmonary  hypertension  or  death  at  any  time  before  12 weeks.  For  this  primary  end-point  each 
patient were to be classified as responder or non-responder. 
For  the  combined  criteria  the  walking  distance  in  6  minutes  was  measured  after  the  presumed  peak 
plasma  level  of  iloprost  (after  inhalation).    The  6-minute  walked  distance  was  also  assessed  before 
inhalation of iloprost to measure the trough effect. 
17 patients out of 101 in the iloprost group (16.8%) and 5 out of 102 in the placebo group (4.9%) were 
responders. The difference of responders between the two treatment groups was 12% (p=0.007)  and 
was mainly due to reported changes in NYHA class. 
The  estimated  common  odds  ratio  was  3.97,  determined  by  Mantel-Haenszel  inference  (95% 
confidence interval [1.47; 10.75]). 
Among the patients with chronic thromboembolic disease (N=56, iloprost group=32 patients; placebo 
=24  patients)  the  rate  of  responders  to  iloprost  was  marginal  and  not  statistically  different  from  the 
placebo group: (iloprost: 4/32 =12,5%; placebo: 2/24=8.3%). 
The  difference  between  the  two  groups  in  respect  of  the  rate  of  responders  who  experienced  an 
improvement in the 6-minute walk test by more than 10% from baseline was low and not statistically 
significant: 38/101=37.6% in the iloprost group and 26/102=25% in the placebo group (p=0.059).  
Overall, 62.4% of patients did not experience an increase over 10% from baseline after 12 weeks of 
treatment. 
Stratum 
PPH/III 
PPH/IV 
SPH/III 
SPH/IV 
All 
Iloprost (n = 101) 
Responders 
5/34 
6/19 
5/26 
1/22 
17/101 
14.7% 
31.6% 
19.2% 
4.5% 
16.8% 
Placebo (n = 102) 
Responders 
2/36 
1/19 
2/24 
0/23 
5/102 
5.6% 
5.3% 
8.3% 
0.0% 
4.9% 
Overview of the components contributing to the combined responder (ITT population) 
Improvement in NYHA class** 
Improvement of WD of 10% vs. baseline** 
n [%] 
Deterioration  
n [%] 
n [%] 
Mortality until week 12 
n [%] 
Iloprost 
n = 101 
25 (24.8%) 
38 (37.6%) 
5 (4.9%) 
1 (1.0%) 
Placebo 
n = 102 
13 (12.7%) 
26 (25.5%) 
9 (8.8%) 
4 (3.9%) 
Treatment effect 
p-value 
0.032  
0.059  
0.407  
0.369  
 **Component of the primary endpoint. #Values obtained at week 12 after inhalation. 
Fisher’s exact test 
Stratified Mantel-Haenszel test 
1) 
2) 
Secondary efficacy variables: 
An analysis of each component of the combined endpoint has been performed. The secondary efficacy 
variables studied included: improvement in  exercise  capacity  measured  using the 6-minute  walk test 
and ratings of perceived exertion scale (according to Borg scale); improvement in NYHA functional 
class;  improvement  in  Mahler  dyspnea  index;  improvement  in  haemodynamic  parameters;  gas 
exchange; deterioration of PHT; mortality; need for transplantation; quality of life. 
6-minute walk test: The  difference between the two  groups in respect  of the rate  of responders  who 
experienced an improvement in the 6-minute walk test by more than 10% from baseline was low and 
17/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not statistically significant: 38/101=37.6% in the iloprost group and 26/102=25% in the placebo group 
(p=0.059).  
Overall, 62.4% of patients did not experience an increase over 10% from baseline after 12 weeks of 
treatment. 
The mean value of the absolute change from baseline in 6-minute walking distance observed after 12 
weeks of treatment within the overall population included was: 22 meters (-3.3 meters in the placebo 
group, p=0.032). The Hodges Lehmann estimators for treatment differences  (iloprost- placebo)  were 
20  meters  (observed  data  analysis)  and  29  meters  (LOCF  analysis  with  the  imputation  death  =0). 
These values of differences are under the threshold that can be recognised as clinically significant (i.e. 
40 meters). 
A subgroup analysis showed that there was no treatment effect as compared to placebo with reference 
to  the  6-minute  walk  test  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  diagnosed  with  secondary  pulmonary 
hypertension  (SPH).  In  this  subgroup,  the  mean  absolute  change  in  6–minute  walk  test  was  –1.8 
meters  after  12  weeks  [–5,1  meters  (SPH/class  III)  and  2,1  meters  (SPH/  class  IV)]  in  the  iloprost 
group while the mean change from baseline was +1,5 meters in the placebo group.  
A mean increase in the 6-minute walk test of 44.7 meters from a baseline mean value of 329 meters 
vs. a change of -7.4 meters from a baseline mean value of 324 meters in the placebo group (no data 
imputation  for  death  or  missing  values)  was  observed  in  the  subgroup  of  49  patients  with  primary 
pulmonary hypertension (PPH) receiving treatment of inhaled iloprost for 12 weeks (46 patients in the 
placebo group). 
After 12 weeks treatment, when the 6-minute walk test was measured at the trough of effect (before 
inhalation), the mean improvement from baseline was 14,6 meters (median: 16 meters) in the iloprost 
group; 0,2 meters (median: 0.5 meters) in the placebo group. The mean difference  observed between 
the two groups 14.4 meters was not statistically significant. 
Change from baseline in NYHA functional class: With reference to the observed  improvement  of at 
least one NYHA functional class, 25/96 (26%) of the patients in the iloprost group and 13/88 (15%) in 
the  placebo  group  improved  (p  =  0.032,  stratified  Mantel-Haenszel  test).  However,  in  the  iloprost 
group 65/96 patients (67.7%) remained unchanged and 6/96 patients (6.3%) deteriorated while in the 
placebo  group  67/88  patients  (76.1%)  remained  unchanged  and  8/88  patients  (9.1%)  deteriorated. 
More patients improved and fewer patients deteriorated with respect to their NYHA functional class in 
the  iloprost  group  as  compared  to  the  placebo  group  at  week  12.  This  difference  was  however  not 
statistically significant (Fisher's exact test: p = 0.195).  
Improvement  in  haemodynamic  parameters:  Invasive  haemodynamic  parameters  were  assessed  at 
baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment. The hemodynamic parameters analysed showed significant 
differences  between  trough  (before  inhalation  session) and  peak  (5  minutes  after  inhalation  session) 
drug effect on pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR: 22% decrease between the two measurements = - 
211.8 dynxsxcm-5 in average p=0.0001) and mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP: -8.9 % change 
between  the  two  measurements  =  -4.5  mmHg  in  average,  p=0.0001).  After  12  weeks  the  treatment 
effect, as compared to placebo, was not significant neither in mPAP (p=0.958) nor in PVR (p=0.067) 
as compared to baseline when these parameters were measured at the trough expected effect (before 
inhalation).   
Other  secondary  variables:  There  were  no  conclusive  results  with  reference  to  improvement  of 
perceived  exertion.  The  Mahler  dyspnea  focal scores  were  comparable  for both the  active treatment 
and the placebo groups as well as for PPH and SPH patients.  
With respect to deterioration of the disease, there was a tendency in favour of iloprost (fewer iloprost 
patients  developed  the  defined  criteria  of  deterioration  within  the  12  weeks  of  the  study).  But  the 
difference was not statistically significant between the two groups.  
Mortality was low in the two groups, 3 patients died in the iloprost group and 7 in the placebo group. 
The results in mortality did not reach statistical significance. 
No patient was transplanted during the entire course of the study. 
No  statistically  significant  treatment  effect  was  detected  using  the  adapted  “Minnesota  Living  with 
Heart Failure Questionnaire adapted for PHT” for the evaluation of disease specific QoL in this patient 
18/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
       
 
 
 
population. During the study, syncope was reported in 8 of the 101 patients who received iloprost and 
in 5 of the 102 patients who received placebo (see discussion on clinical safety below). 
Dose delivered during study: In the iloprost  group, the  median inhaled daily  dose  was at  most time 
points 30 µg divided into 6 inhalations (range: 12.5 µ g to 45 µ g), and was only slightly higher in the 
placebo  group. The  majority  of patients inhaled a  delivered iloprost dose  of 5 µg at the  mouthpiece 
(≥ 80% at all time points). In the iloprost group, the dose and  frequency of inhalations did not differ 
between PPH and SPH groups except for the PPH/ class IV stratum where the median daily dose was 
increased up to 45 µg in both treatment groups at week 12. As anticipated, about 90% of patients had 
only inhalations during the day.  
Supportive study (interim report RR A00794/ final report RRA02237) 
Description of the study: 
The  supportive  clinical  trial  (RR  A00794)  was  an  exploratory,  open-label,  multicenter,  randomised 
parallel  group  study  comparing  the  addition  of  inhaled  iloprost  to  conventional  therapy  to 
conventional  therapy  alone  (excluding  prostacyclin  and  analogues  and  endothelin  inhibitors).  This 
study was conducted over three months at the end of which all recruited patients, apart from those who 
had  discontinued  treatment  due  to  adverse  events  or  due  to  deterioration  of  the  pulmonary 
hypertension, were entered in a second open phase of longer-term iloprost inhalation treatment leading 
up  to  24  months.  It  was  mainly  aimed  to  investigate  the  safety,  tolerability,  and  clinical  efficacy  of 
iloprost  inhalation  therapy  in  patients  with  primary  or  secondary  pulmonary  hypertension. 
Randomization  was  performed  using 
the  strata  PHT 
 500 m, 150-499 m, < 150 m). 
(primary/secondary), calcium antagonist (yes/no), and 6-minute walk (
In this study inhalation using 2.8 µg iloprost was delivered at the mouth piece. 
This  study  included  a  total  of  63  patients  (from  24  to78  years),  all  considered  clinically  stable.  40 
patients were diagnosed with primary pulmonary hypertension (iloprost arm: 20 and control arm: 20 
during  the  controlled  phase)  and  23  patients  were  diagnosed  with  secondary  arterial  pulmonary 
hypertension  (iloprost  arm:  10  and  control  arm:  13  during  the  controlled  phase).  Among  those  with 
secondary  pulmonary  hypertension,  three  patients  had  chronic  tromboembolic  disease.  Of  the  63 
patients enrolled, 21 were classified according to NYHA functional class II, 30 to NYHA class III, and 
12 to NYHA  class IV.  Among the 63 patients  who  were randomised 52  (82.5%) patients  continued 
into  the  long-term  phase  and  14  patients  discontinued  the  study  during  the  randomised  phase.  The 
interim report of this study where patients had received inhaled iloprost treatment for 9 or 12 months 
was provided with the dossier. Data from the second year, however, were not yet ready at the time of 
the submission but were submitted in November 2002 (report RR A02237).  
random  permutated  blocks  within 
≥
RESULTS 
Primary efficacy variables: 
Although the study  was designed to  evaluate safety, a composite response  criterion  was specified in 
order to analyse efficacy. Patients were classified as responders if they fulfilled each of the following 
criteria: No death and improvement in at least one NYHA class and at least a 10 % increase in the 6-
minute walking distance from baseline. 
19/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy variables: 
Improvement  in  NYHA  functional  class;  improvement  in  exercise  capacity  according  to  walking 
distance (6-min walked distance measured either before or within 15 minutes after iloprost inhalation) 
and  Borg  scale  (rate  of  perceived  symptoms  of  breathlessness  and  muscle  fatigue  at  the  end  of  an 
exercise  test);  Mahler  Dyspnea  Index;  health-related  quality  of  life;  haemodynamic  parameters  and 
gas exchange; mortality and lung/heart-lung transplantation.  
With reference to improvement in NYHA class, a difference between the treatment groups in favour 
of iloprost could be found at the time of the analysis, however, not statistically significant (to the 5-% 
level).  During  the  controlled  phase  a  trend  of  improvement  regarding  the  6-minute  walk  test  was 
observed in favour of inhaled iloprost but the statistical analysis did not show a significant treatment 
effect.  No  statistical  difference  was  reached  in  quality  of  life  assessment  and  mortality  was  similar 
between the two groups within the 3-month controlled phase.  
20/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive study (RX15) 
Description of the study: 
Study RX15 compared the haemodynamic effects and pharmacokinetics in 12 patients with pulmonary 
hypertension after single doses of nebulised iloprost from 3 brands of nebulising devices Ventstream, 
the Ilo-Neb system, and the nebulising device used in the pivotal and on-going trials, HaloLite. This 
was  a  controlled, randomized,  open-label,  multicenter, crossover  designed study  with six sequences, 
three treatments and three periods. The patients had to be "responders" to inhalation of iloprost aerosol 
using  the  Ilo-Neb  nebulising  device  regarding  the  main  target  variable,  a  decrease  of  pulmonary 
vascular  resistance  by  at  least  20%  within  1  hour  after  inhalation  compared  to  baseline  in  the  last 
previous right-heart catheter investigation. The mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) must exceed 
≥
 30 mmHg. The dose at the mouthpiece was  estimated at 5 µg based on in vitro characterization of 
the Ilo-Neb system. 
Outcome variables studied: 
Change  in  pulmonary  vascular  resistance;  tolerability  as  measured  by  systemic  haemodynamic 
variables; pharmacokinetic evaluation based on individual iloprost levels in serum measured prior to 
the  start  and  at  the  end  of  inhalation  as  well  as  2,  5,  15,  30,  60  and  120  minutes  after  the  end  of 
inhalation. 
Statistical  significant  difference  was  not  observed  in  the  means  of  the  underlying  cardiovascular 
variables  (CO,  mPAP,  PAWP)  from  which  the  main  target  variable,  PVR,  was  derived.  (See  also 
discussion on pharmacokinetics.) 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies in special patient groups (e.g. in children) were performed. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Based  on  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  (prespecified  composite  criteria:  improvement  in  exercise 
capacity (6-minute walk test) at 12 weeks by at least 10% versus baseline and improvement by at least 
one NYHA class at 12 weeks versus baseline and no deterioration of pulmonary hypertension or death 
at  any  time  before  12  weeks),  the  overall  rate  of  responders  to  inhaled  iloprost  was  low  (17/101= 
16.8%) and  was  considered  mainly  due to  reported  changes in NYHA  class. Although this rate  was 
significantly  higher  than  with  placebo  (5/102=4.9%)  (p=0.007),  the  largest  part  of  patients  (i.e. 
84/101=83.2%)  did  not  respond  to  iloprost  inhalation  therapy  according  to  this  combined  primary 
endpoint.  
The predefined value of 10% improvement  from baseline may not adequately reflect the actual level 
of  improvement  of  exercise  capacity  since  the  definition  of  “responders”  depends  on  their  original 
baseline  value.  Hence,  this  threshold  may  be  reached  following  a  weak  improvement  in  the  actual 
21/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
walking distance in patients with a severe condition and a relatively low baseline  value. In any case, 
these  results  suggest  that  63.4%  of  patients  treated  with  inhaled  iloprost  have  not  experienced  an 
improvement in 6-minute walking distance over 10% from baseline after 12 weeks treatment. 
Based  on  the  results  on  absolute  value  of  the  6-minute  walk  test  the  improvement    was  modest:  22 
meters  from  baseline  after  12  weeks  of  treatment.  The  estimated  treatment  effect  as  compared  to 
placebo  was  25.5m  (observed  cases  analysis).  When  the  6-minute  walk  test  was  measured  before 
inhalations  the  mean  change  from  baseline  was  not  statistically  significant  as  compared  to  placebo: 
iloprost:  14.6  ±7.8  meters  (median  16  meters);  placebo:  0.2  ±  67.3  meters.    Consequently,  in  the 
largest part of the included population the improvement from baseline in 6-minute walk test was lower 
than  the  value  of  40  meters,  which  has  been  recognised  in  literature  as  the  threshold  of  clinical 
significance in  improvement  of  exercise  capacity.  In addition, the effect is  of short  duration (one to 
two hours) leading to therapeutic gaps compelling patients to frequent nebulisations (6 to 9 per day).  
In the pivotal study, a clinically significant improvement in the 6-minute walk test was shown only in 
the subgroup of patients with primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH). In this subgroup of 95 patients 
(placebo=46; iloprost=49) the mean treatment effect as compared to placebo on the 6-minute walk test 
after  12  weeks  of  treatment  was  52.1  m  (observed  cases  analysis,  no  data  imputation).  The  mean 
improvement from baseline in the Ventavis group was 44.7 meters (median 31 meters) and the mean 
change in the placebo group was – 7.4 meters (median 2 meters).  
In  the  predefined  subgroup  of  patients  with  secondary  pulmonary  hypertension  (placebo:  N=48, 
iloprost N=47) including  chronic thrombotic pulmonary  hypertension (56/95 patients), drug induced 
PHT  and  scleroderma,  there  was  no  evidence  of  efficacy.  In  this  subgroup,  based  on  the  primary 
combined  endpoint,  most  patients  (42/48)  did  not  respond  to  inhaled  iloprost  (in  the  placebo  group 
2/47  patients  were  classified  as  responders).  Therefore,  in  the  strata  of  patients  with  secondary 
pulmonary  hypertension,  no  treatment  effect  has  been  shown  regarding  exercise  improvement.  The 
mean  absolute  change  in  6-minute  walk  test  was  –  1.8  meters  after  12  weeks  in  the  iloprost  group 
while the mean change was +1,5 in the placebo group; i.e. the mean treatment effect was - 3.3 meters 
with the observed cases analysis (LOCF with imputation death =0 analysis: mean 6-minute walk test 
change  from  baseline  in  the  iloprost  group  after  12  weeks  treatment:  -4.2  meters;  placebo:  -15.7 
meters; treatment effect = +11.5 meters).  Therefore, no significant treatment effect can be recognised 
on exercise capacity in this subgroup.  
Although the measurement of mPAP and PVR showed a slight non-significant trend of improvement 
in these parameters in favour of iloprost as compared to the placebo group, no difference was observed 
between  the  groups  regarding  gas  exchange  (SVO2).  This  suggests  that  the  vasodilatory  effects 
measured  in  the  pulmonary  artery  do  not  translate  in  an  improvement  of  respiratory  function.  As  a 
consequence,  the  efficacy  of  this  therapy  is  not  established  in  this  patient  population.  From  a 
pathological  point  of  view,  the  current  classification  adopted  by  the  latest  consensus  (WHO  1998) 
intended to encompass the fresh knowledge on the treatment and pathogenesis of pulmonary vascular 
disease  clearly  separates  hypoxic  lung  disease  causing  pulmonary  hypertension,  like  chronic 
thromboembolic disease (including  obstruction of proximal and  distal pulmonary arteries  and in  situ 
thrombosis)  from  the  other  causes  of  pulmonary  hypertension.  Extrapolation  from  the  whole 
population to this condition would not be appropriate. 
Most of the patients included in the pivotal trial who were categorised in NYHA functional class IV, 
seem  to  be  actually  less  limited  in  exercise  capacity  (as  assessed  by  the  6-minute  walk  test)  than 
patients with NYHA class IV functional status from other published series or to patients encountered 
in medical practice. The mean baseline 6-minutes walk test of the inhaled iloprost pivotal study (i.e. 
332.4  meters  ±  92.8  meters  in  the  inhaled  iloprost  group)  was  markedly  similar  or  even  higher  as 
compared to the other published comparative studies in which a lower percentage of patients or even 
no patient  were categorised as NYHA  class IV  functional status. This suggests that different  criteria 
for  the  assessment  of  NYHA  class  IV  might  have  been  applied  in  the  pivotal  study,  resulting  in 
enrolment  of  less  compromised  patients.  Since  the  NYHA  classification  is  closely  related  to  the 
exercise  capacity,  this  suggests  that  most  of  the  patients  included  would  have  been  categorised  as 
grade III functional status should they have been assessed according to criteria adopted in other studies 
or  other  reference  centres.  Also,  among  the  pivotal  study  population  the  baseline  characteristics  (6-
22/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
minute  walk  test  and  pulmonary  haemodynamics)  were  similar  in  the  NYHA  class  III  and  class  IV 
subgroups. The similarity of the efficacy results observed in the class III and class IV strata is in line 
with the similarity in the baseline characteristics of the patients included in these respective strata.  
Intravenous prostacyclin is now considered in usual practice and by international consensus as a first 
line  therapy  and  possibly  an  alternative  to  lung  transplantation  in  patients  with  severe  primary 
pulmonary  hypertension.  Published  reports  and  clinical  experience  has  shown  that  intravenous 
prostacyclin doubles the time on the waiting list for lung transplantation while reducing the risks and 
improving  the  outcome  of  transplantation.  Therefore,  available  data  as  well  as  experience  in  usual 
practice do not support this benefit with inhaled iloprost. 
The small sample size of patients with severe conditions included in the study prevents any assessment 
of  the  real  impact  of  inhaled  iloprost  on  exercise  capacity  and  prognosis  in  the  category  of  patients 
with the most severe condition as it is encountered in clinical practice.  
The long daily time devoted to the nebulisation session due to the high frequency of nebulisations per 
day (6 to 9 inhalation sessions) will probably favour a risk of non-compliance. Subsequent  therapeutic 
gaps may increase the risk of exertional syncope through increasing pulmonary arterial hypertension 
induced by  modest systemic arterial  oxygen  desaturation  during  exercise as  well as  sleep. This  may 
contribute  to  a  potential  deleterious  effect  of  treatment  with  short  duration  of  effect,  especially  in 
patients with advanced pulmonary hypertension. 
The criteria for NYHA classification are mostly left to the clinician's discretion and are consequently 
subject to considerable variability among the investigators. Training was given throughout the studies 
to investigators and co-investigators by one centrally located NYHA advisor from Shering A.G.  
The results observed with respect to this subjective criterion cannot on their own support the benefit of 
the product in the claimed indication. It should be reminded that strict double blinding might not have 
been  ensured  due  to  the  high  incidence  of  visible  adverse  effects  i.e.  vasomotor  side  effects  like 
flushing. At the end of the study, changes in NYHA class accounted for most of the better response 
rate  in  the  iloprost  group  as  compared  with  the  placebo  group.  But  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  the 
assessment  procedure  might  have  favoured  the  assignment  to  improve  categories  as  the  study  was 
going on. 
The recommended  dose is 2.5 micrograms or 5.0 micrograms of inhaled  iloprost (as  delivered at the 
mouthpiece of the nebuliser) according to the individual need and tolerability. The dose per inhalation 
session should be administered 6 to 9 times per day according to the individual need and tolerability. 
The  duration  of  treatment  depends  on  clinical  status  and  is  left  to  physician’s  discretion.  Should 
patients  deteriorate  on  this  treatment  intravenous  prostacyclin  treatment  should  be  considered. 
Ventavis  should  only  be  initiated  and  monitored  by  a  physician  experienced  in  the  treatment  of 
pulmonary hypertension. 
In  order  to  define  generic  performance  characteristics  for  the  nebulisers  that  are  commercially 
available  within  the  EU  and  that    can  be  recommended  for  the  use  of  Ventavis,  the  Applicant  has 
provided an in vitro study (A13108) comparing 6 nebulising systems: three compressed air nebulising 
systems  (HaloLite;  Prodose;  Pari-LC-Star/TurboBoy)  and  3  ultrasonic  nebulisers  (Multisonic  Infra 
Control; Optineb; Optineb volume controlled).  
Two  compressed  air  nebuliser  systems,  HaloLite  and  Prodose,  have  been  shown  to  be  suitable 
nebulisers  for  the  administration  of  Ventavis  since  the  nebulisation  characteristics  were  similar  to 
those  of  the  nebulisation  device  used  in  the  pivotal  study.  With  both  systems  the  mass  median 
aerodynamic diameter of the aerosol droplet (MMAD) with iloprost was between 2.6 and 2.7  µ m. For 
each  inhalation  session  the  content  of  one  2-ml  ampoule  of  Ventavis  will  be  transferred  into  the 
nebuliser medication chamber immediately before use. HaloLite and Prodose are dosimetric systems. 
They stop automatically after the pre-set dose has been delivered. The inhalation time depends on the 
patient’s  breathing  pattern.  The  efficacy  and  tolerability  of  inhaled  iloprost  when  administered  with 
other nebulising systems, which provide different nebulisation characteristics of iloprost solution, have 
not been established. 
23/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It can be concluded that a clinically significant beneficial effect of inhaled iloprost has been observed 
on exercise capacity only in a restricted part of patients with pulmonary hypertension. 
The  approved  indication  is  therefore  "Treatment  of  patients  with  primary  pulmonary  hypertension, 
classified as NYHA functional class III, to improve exercise capacity and symptoms." 
However, the duration of the pivotal trial (12 weeks) was short and the patient population for whom a 
significant improvement in exercise capacity was observed is small. The Applicant has committed to 
provide further longer-term safety and efficacy data of Ventavis (iloprost) as part of a post-marketing 
programme. 
Clinical Safety 
Patient exposure 
The safety database includes a mixture of patients with pulmonary hypertension receiving iloprost via 
inhaled route and patients receiving iloprost via systemic route (i.e. oral, intravenous) in PHT or other 
indications  (i.e.  peripheral  arterial  occlusive  disease).  A  total  of  279  patients  with  pulmonary 
hypertension were enrolled in the studies.  
The safety data in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension derived from three clinical trials:  
Study no 
AX 15 
Device comparison study 
Total no. patients  Duration of treatment  Median dose and dose range 
13 
1 day 
A00794 
Phase II study 
A02297 
Phase III study 
63 
(40 PPH,23 SPH) 
203 
108 PPH, 95 SPH 
Up to 19 months 
12 weeks 
Delivered dose of 5µg per inhalation at the mouth 
piece 
One inhalation with each device 
Nominal daily dose of 100µg (range 50 to 200µg) 
Divided into 6 inhalation per day (range 3 to 12) 
Delivered daily dose of 30 µg at the mouth piece 
(range 15 to 45µg) 
divided into 6 inhalations per day ( range 5 to 9) 
Furthermore, supportive data are provided for a total of 155 patients with PHT who have been treated 
with intravenous iloprost and reported in 14 studies. The short-term effect after i.v. iloprost has been 
investigated in 71 patients in 5 studies. Short-term or acute treatments consist of one or more infusions 
given over periods of less than one hour. 
It  is  estimated  that  ilomedin  (iloprost  iv)  has  already  been  used  in  a  significant  number  of  patients 
worldwide outside of the clinical trials. 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
Study RX 15 – device comparison study: 
Vasodilatation was the most frequent event, followed by headache, and cough. Cough and sore throat 
coincided  with  the  inhalation  procedure  and  could  be  considered  treatment-related.  One  patient 
experienced abdominal pain but the time course between administration of the study medication and 
the  occurrence  of  the  AE  rules  out  a  causal  relationship.  There  was  one  case  of  a  supraventricular 
begiminus, which occurred 39 min after a short inhalation. One patient experienced a mild tachycardia 
during  the  2nd  treatment  period  and  a  ventricular  extrasystole  3  min  after  a  short  inhalation.  In  two 
patients, the blood pressure decreased by more than 10% as compared to baseline during inhalation. 
24/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study A00794 – Phase II study: 
Frequency of Aes 
> 20% 
10-20 % 
3-10 % 
Iloprost (30 patients) 
Vasodilatation 
Cough 
Chest pain 
Nausea  
Headache 
Trismus 
Back pain 
Fever 
Palpitations 
Diarrhea 
Syncope  
Increased creatine phosphokinase 
Dyspnea 
hemoptysis 
hematuria 
Placebo (33 patients) 
Asthenia 
Right heart failure 
Peripheral edema 
Upper respiratory infection  
Back pain 
Fever 
Palpitations 
Diarrhea 
Syncope 
4 patients died during the randomised study phase, 2 in each treatment group. The cause of death was 
right heart failure. 
Five patients in the iloprost  group  discontinued the study, one  due to lack  of  efficacy,  one  due to  a 
scheduled lung transplant, three withdrew due to an adverse effect (right heart failure) and four control 
patients prematurely switched to iloprost aerosol treatment. 
Study A02297 – Phase III study: 
Incidence of most frequent adverse events (≥10% of patients in the iloprost group) up to week 12: 
Event 
Cough increased 
Headache 
Vasodilatation 
Flu syndrome 
Peripheral edema 
Nausea 
Trismus 
Hypotension 
Iloprost   ( n=101) 
39 ( 38.6%) 
30  (29.7%) 
27  (26.7%) 
14  (13.9%) 
13  (12.9%) 
13  (12.9%) 
12  (11.9%) 
11  (10.9%) 
Placebo  ( n=102) 
26 ( 25.5%) 
20 (19.6% ) 
9 ( 8.8% ) 
10 (9.8%) 
15  (15.7%) 
8 ( 7.8% ) 
3 (2.9%) 
6 ( 5.9%) 
P value 
0.0513 
0.1054 
0.0009 
0.0166 
0.2163 
A higher observed rate in the iloprost group as compared to the placebo group with p-value (p≤0.05) 
was found for increased cough, vasodilatation, and trismus. 
There  were 11 cases of hypotension, 5 of which were considered drug-related. In the placebo group, 
there  were  6  cases  of  hypotension,  4  of  which  were  considered  drug-related.  In  the  iloprost  group, 
serious  hypotension  occurred  in  connection  with  Ca  antagonist  medication  and  AV-block  in  one 
patient  and  during  the  pretreatment  catheter  test  in  the  other  patient.  Six  of  the  11  iloprost  patients 
with hypotension received concomitant vasodilators and diuretics.  
There  were  39  cases  of  increased  cough,  33  of  which  were  considered  drug-related.  In the  placebo 
group 26 cases were reported, of which 18 were considered related to the study medication. 
Syncope was more frequent in iloprost patients than among patients receiving placebo. Up to week 12, 
syncope was seen in 8/101 patients in the iloprost group as compared to 5/102 in the placebo group. 
The event was reported as a SAE in 5/101 iloprost patients and none in the placebo group (p=0.029). 
The SAE was assessed as related to the study medication in 3 of 5 iloprost patients. 
During  the  follow-up  period,  one  further  patient  in  either  group  reported  syncope  as  a  SAE.  The 
patient from the placebo group had syncope whilst on treatment with open-label iloprost aerosol. 
Syncopes  reported  in  the  iloprost  group  occurred  2  to  9  hour  after  last  inhalation.  Three  patients 
experienced  syncope  after  exertion,  one  patient  after  getting  up  in  the  morning,  one  patient 
experienced  syncope  due  to  frequent  coughing.  One  patient  experienced  hypotension  and  syncope 
after  diuretic  medication  for  oedema.  One  patient  under  treatment  with  a  calcium  channel  blocker 
25/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
developed AV-block II. No patient had experienced syncope before iloprost treatment and all patients 
recovered. 
Five patients discontinued the study medication in the iloprost group due to adverse events, three due 
to  aggravation  reaction,  one  due  to  congestive  heart  failure  and  one  due  to  cough  after  inhalation. 
Eight patients discontinued the study medication in the placebo group due to adverse events, three due 
to aggravation reaction. 
Up to week 12, there was one death in the iloprost group as compared to 4 in the placebo group. 
Up to week 16, there were 3 deaths in the iloprost group as compared to 7 in the placebo group. Two 
of the patients in the placebo group who died between week 12 and week 16 received rescue therapy 
with prostanoids. 
The cause of death were cardiovascular reasons in all but 2 SPH patients with collagenoses for whom 
death  was  due  to  bronchopneumonia/pulmonary  fibrosis  and  respiratory  failure  due  to  suspected 
pneumonia and cardiac arrest, respectively. 
Laboratory findings 
There were no relevant changes over time for any laboratory parameter in either treatment group with 
the exception for elevated liver enzymes observed in some iloprost patients in the phase III study (RR 
A02997). These changes, mostly affecting alkaline phosphatase and gamma-GT, were not considered 
to  be  a  sign  of  hepatotoxicity  of  iloprost,  as  they  were  of  mild  or  moderate  intensity,  did  not  reach 
values above three-fold the upper normal limit and were not associated with elevated total bilirubin. 
All  cases  of  liver  damage  were  cases  of  hemodynamic  liver  stasis.  The  2  lab  test  abnormalities 
reported as SAEs in the iloprost group are: one patient had an INR increased due to coumarin and the 
other patient had CK and CK-MB increases of unknown origin. 
Safety in special populations 
Iloprost elimination is reduced in patients with hepatic dysfunction and in patients with renal failure 
requiring  dialysis.  A  cautious  initial  dose  titration  using  dosing  intervals  of  at  least  3  hours  is 
recommended. Relevant recommendations have been included in the appropriate sections of the SPC. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
In the studies provided, death was reported more frequently in the placebo group. Death in the active 
treatment was not considered related to the study drug. 
The  adverse  effect  profile  of  inhaled  iloprost  was  similar  to  the  one  observed  with  iloprost  when 
administered via other routes and in the other indication (peripheral arterial occlusive disease).  
In  addition  to  local  effects  resulting  from  administration  of iloprost  by  inhalation  such  as  increased 
cough, adverse reactions with iloprost are related to the pharmacological properties of prostacyclins. 
The  most  common  adverse  events  observed in the  clinical studies  were  headache, jaw pain, nausea, 
and  vasodilation  already  known  from  intravenous  Ilomedin  experience.  Trismus  with  unclear 
mechanism  occurred  as  a  common  adverse  reactions.  Cough  was  identified  as  a  frequent  unknown 
adverse  event  and  was  considered  as  non-serious  in  all  cases  but  one  where  cough  lead  to 
discontinuation of iloprost treatment.  
Hypotension  was  reported  in  9.2%  of  patients  receiving  inhaled  iloprost  patients  as  compared  with 
6.7%  of  patients  in  the  pooled  inhaled  placebo  groups.  In  study  A02997,  hypotension  was  almost 
double  in  the  iloprost  group  (10.9%  as  compared  with  5.9%  in  the  placebo  group).  In  the  iloprost 
group, serious hypotension occurred in 2 cases in connection with calcium antagonist medication and 
AV-block  in  one  patient  and  during  the  pretreatment  catheter  test  in  the  other  patient.  In  study 
A02997,  6  of  the  11  iloprost  patients  with  hypotension  received  concomitant  vasodilators  and 
diuretics.  The  occurrence  in  some  patients,  of  a  decline  in  systemic  arterial  pressure,  suggests  that 
aerosolised  iloprost  is  not  purely  selective  pulmonary  vasodilator  but  rather  that  there  is  some 
systemic spillover of the drug. The systemic vasodilation is closely related to the inhaled dose and the 
dose delivered at the mouthpiece. 
In  patients  with  low  systemic  blood  pressure,  care  should  be  taken  to  avoid  further  hypotension. 
Ventavis should not be initiated in patients with systolic arterial hypotension less than 85 mmHg. 
26/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Among  serious  AEs,  syncope  was  common  (7.6%  for  iloprost  combined  vs  5.2%  for  placebo  and 
control  combined).  In  the  main  controlled  study  A02997,  syncope  occurred  more  frequently  in  the 
iloprost  group  compared  with  placebo  group  (5/101  vs  0/102)  and  this  difference  was  statistically 
significant. Furthermore, syncope  was  overall the  most frequent serious adverse  event. Even though 
there  are  confounding  factors,  investigators  considered  the  AE  as  drug-related  in  some  cases  (3/5 
SAE).  The  patients  who  experienced  syncope  had  no  history  of  previous  syncopes.  Syncope  is  a 
common symptom of the disease itself, but can also occur under therapy. The increased occurrence of 
syncopes  can  be  related  to  the  deterioration  of  the  disease  or  insufficient  efficiency  of  the  product. 
There was no case of discontinuation of study due to syncopal episodes. 
The pulmonary vasodilatory effect of inhaled iloprost is of short duration (within one and two hours). 
Patients  who  experience  syncope  in  association  with  pulmonary  hypertension  should  avoid  any 
exceptional  straining,  for  example  during  physical  exertion.  Before  physical  exertion  it  might  be 
useful to inhale. The occurrence of a nocturnal or exertional syncope reflects therapeutic gaps and/or 
insufficient efficiency, and the need to adapt and/or change the therapy should be considered.  
The  AEs  related  to  progression  of  the  disease,  i.e.  aggravation  reaction,  dyspnea,  congestive  heart 
failure and heart failure, were balanced between treatment groups and there was no hint of a negative 
effect of iloprost treatment. 
Bleeding events (mostly haematoma) were common as expected in this patient population with a high 
proportion  of patients  taking anticoagulant  co-medication. The  frequency  of bleeding  events  did not 
differ between iloprost and placebo-treated patients. 
The  use  of  Ventavis  is  not  recommended  in  patients  with  unstable  pulmonary  hypertension,  with 
advanced  right  heart  failure.  In  case  of  deterioration  or  worsening  of  right  heart  failure  transfer  to 
other medicinal products should be considered. 
In case of interruption of Ventavis therapy, the risk of rebound effect is not formally excluded. Careful 
monitoring  of  the  patient  should  be  performed,  when  inhaled  iloprost  therapy  is  stopped  and  an 
alternative treatment should be considered in critically ill patients. 
Overall, during the pivotal studies  with inhaled iloprost, only two safety  concerns have been  raised: 
cough and syncope, as compared to the safety profile already known with Ilomedin. The safety issues 
identified have been appropriately addressed in the relevant sections of the SPC and Package Leaflet. 
However, it has to be noted that the relevant trials were small and not powered to detect statistically 
significant  differences  in  side  effects.  Therefore,  the  Applicant  has  committed  to  provide  further 
longer-term safety and efficacy data for Ventavis (iloprost) as part of a post-marketing programme. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The purity of iloprost active substance, and the control of the manufacturing process and specification 
for the finished product indicate reliable in vitro reproducibility of this medicinal product. Stability has 
been shown to be satisfactory; this in turn should indicate a uniform performance in the clinic. There 
are no unresolved quality issues which could have a negative impact on the benefit / risk balance of 
the product. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the primary pharmacodynamic studies provided adequate evidence that iloprost has an effect 
on  vasodilatation,  preservation  of  endothelial  function,  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation  and  of 
monocyte activation. The action of iloprost is very similar to PGI2, from which it differs mainly in its 
oral  bioavailability  and  lesser  vasodilatory  potency.  Further,  in  the  general  pharmacology  studies 
iloprost was shown to lower pulmonary artery pressure in animal models of pulmonary hypertension. 
Its potency to inhibit pulmonary  vasoconstriction  and reduce pulmonary  vascular resistance together 
with  platelet  anti-aggregatory  and  antithrombotic  activity,  as  well  as  its  effects  on  vascular 
27/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
remodelling, endothelial function and inhibition of some aspects of inflammation, seem to be in favour 
of the proposed therapeutic treatment.  
From  the  pharmacokinetic  point  of  view,  the  animal  studies  performed  showed  rapid  systemic 
bioavailability  of  iloprost  following  inhalation.  After  inhalative  daily  administration  in  rats  iloprost 
serum  concentrations  increased  reaching  Cmax  within  1  to  2 hours.  The  systemic  exposure  increased 
sub-proportionally with increasing the dose and proportionally with prolonging the inhalation period. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  revealed  effects  as  expected  for  a  prostacyclin  such  as 
hemodynamic  effects (vasodilatation, reddening  of skin,  hypotension, inhibition  of  platelet  function, 
respiratory  distress) and  general signs  of intoxication such as apathy,  gait disturbances, and postural 
changes. The therapeutic dosage of iloprost should be kept under close control and adjusted according 
to the individual tolerability.  
Because of the occurrence of digit anomalies in individual foetuses in reproductive and developmental 
toxicity  studies  in  the  rat,  iloprost  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  in  women.  No  data  are 
available  on the transfer  of iloprost to the  human  milk; a  warning on iloprost  use in pregnancy  and 
during nursing women is provided in the SPC and Package Leaflet. 
Efficacy 
The clinical benefit of Ventavis has been estimated based on the results of the prespecified subgroup 
analyses of the pivotal phase III study (A02997) that indicated a clinically meaningful improvement in 
exercise capacity, as evaluated by the 6-minute walk test, in a prespecified subgroup of patients with 
primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH). After 12 weeks of treatment, the estimated absolute treatment 
effect  in  the  subgroup  of  95  patients  with  primary  pulmonary  hypertension  (placebo=46;  Ventavis 
=49) on the 6-minutes walk test as compared to placebo, was 52.1 m (observed cases analysis, no data 
imputation). The mean improvement from baseline in the Ventavis group was 44.7 meters and – 7.4 
meters in the placebo group.  
Based  on  the  same  efficacy  criterion,  the  results  were  not  clinically  significant  in  the  subgroup  of 
patients  with  secondary  pulmonary  hypertension  (SPH)  including  sclerodermia  and  chronic 
thrombotic pulmonary hypertension (CTPH).  
Moreover, the baseline  characteristics  of the patients included  with primary pulmonary hypertension 
prevent any assessment of the real impact of inhaled iloprost in patients with a severe condition as it is 
encountered  in  clinical  practice  in  NYHA  functional  class  IV.  Further,  external  data  reported  that 
inhaled iloprost has failed to improve the clinical status of patients with a severe condition while many 
of them were improved with intravenous prostacyclin. Intravenous prostacyclin is now  considered in 
clinical  practice  and  by  international  consensus  as  a  first  line  therapy  and  possibly  an  alternative  to 
lung transplantation in patients with severe primary pulmonary hypertension.  
It  can  be  concluded  that  a  clinically  significant  beneficial  effect  of  inhaled  iloprost  has  been 
documented on exercise capacity in a restricted part of patients with pulmonary hypertension. 
The  approved  indication  is  therefore  "Treatment  of  patients  with  primary  pulmonary  hypertension, 
classified as NYHA functional class III, to improve exercise capacity and symptoms." 
However,  the  duration  of  the  pivotal  trial  (12  weeks)  was  too  short  to  provide  any  conclusion  on 
survival and the Applicant has committed to provide further longer-term safety and efficacy data for 
Ventavis (iloprost) as part of a post-marketing programme. 
Safety 
The safety data show a relatively mild adverse event profile and reasonable tolerability toVentavis.  
In  addition  to  local  effects  resulting  from  administration  of  iloprost  by  inhalation  such  as  increased 
cough, adverse reactions with iloprost are related to the pharmacological properties of prostacyclins. 
The most common adverse events observed in the clinical studies were facial flushing, headache, jaw 
pain, nausea, bleeding and vasodilation already known from experience with iloprost administered via 
the i.v. route. Trismus with unclear mechanism occurred as a common adverse reactions. Cough was 
identified as a frequent unknown adverse event and was considered as non-serious in all cases but one 
where cough lead to discontinuation of iloprost treatment.  
The  occurrence in some patients, of a decline in systemic  arterial pressure, suggests that aerosolised 
iloprost is not purely selective pulmonary vasodilator but rather that there is some systemic spillover 
28/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
of the drug. The systemic vasodilation is closely related to the inhaled dose and the dose delivered at 
the mouthpiece. 
Syncope was overall the most frequent serious adverse event. Increased occurrence of syncopes can be 
related to the deterioration of the disease or insufficient efficiency of the product. However, there was 
no  case  of  discontinuation  of  study  due  to  a  syncopal  episode.  The  occurrence  of  a  nocturnal  or 
exertional syncope reflects therapeutic gaps and/or insufficient efficiency, and the need to adapt and/or 
change the therapy should be considered.  
Appropriate recommendations and warnings have been included in the SPC. 
The  duration  of  the  pivotal  trial  (12  weeks)  was  short  and  the  patient  population  for  whom  a 
significant improvement in exercise capacity was observed is small. The Applicant has committed to 
provide further longer-term safety and efficacy data for Ventavis (iloprost) as part of a post-marketing 
programme. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Following  the  assessment  of  the  supplementary  documentation  provided  by  the  applicant,  it  was 
concluded that further data was needed to support the safety and efficacy of the product. 
At an Oral Explanation before the CPMP, the Applicant focused on the following outstanding issues, 
as previously defined by the CPMP: 
1) 
2) 
3) 
The  results  of  the  in  vitro  device  comparison  study  should  be  used  to  define  generic 
performance  characteristics  for  the  nebuliser,  which  must  be  included  in  the  SPC  and  PL,  to 
enable  patients  to  use  the  product  effectively  and  safely  in  all  European  Member  States. 
Moreover, the  extrapolation  from in vitro results  for one  nebulisation  device to  clinical  effect 
with another should be justified. 
The benefit  of inhaled iloprost appears to be  of questionable  clinical relevance. The applicant 
should discuss the relevance of the effect of the primary endpoint and its composites and define 
a suitable patient population. 
The clinical benefit should also be discussed in the light of the short duration of action and the 
possibility of a rebound effect. 
Following the review of the submitted documentation, the responses provided at the oral hearing and 
the final SPC and letter of undertaking, the CPMP agreed that Ventavis has shown efficacy in patients 
with primary pulmonary hypertension classified as NYHA functional class III, that is encouraging and 
possibly  clinically  relevant  and  that  allows  a  conclusion  on  an  acceptable  benefit/risk  despite  the 
limited  efficacy  and  safety  data  available.  The  CPMP  concluded  that  a  marketing  authorisation  for 
Ventavis  will be  granted  under  exceptional  circumstances, subject to  fulfilling the quality  follow-up 
measure  and  clinical  specific  obligation  undertaken  by  the  Applicant.  The  indication  for  which  the 
medicinal  product  in  question  is  intended  is  encountered  so  rarely  that  the  Applicant  cannot 
reasonably  be  expected  to  provide  comprehensive  data  on  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  medicinal 
product. In  order to  collect additional data, the applicant has  committed to complete a  clinical  study 
post-authorisation  within  pre-specified  time  frames,  the  results  of  which  shall  form  the  basis  of  an 
annual re-assessment of the benefit/risk profile: 
Clinical aspects: 
The Applicant will seek Protocol Assistance within 4 months after the final CPMP opinion to discuss 
an adequate protocol to  gather  further  data  on longer-term safety  and  efficay  of Ventavis (iloprost). 
Progress reports will be provided together with the submission of the PSURs. The first patient will be 
enrolled  within  9  months  after  adoption  of  the  Protocol  Assistance.  A  final  report  will  be  provided 
within 6 months after last patient completed. 
29/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
”Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk profile of Ventavis in the treatment of patients with primary pulmonary 
hypertension,  classified  as  NYHA  functional  class  III,  to  improve  exercise  capacity  and  symptoms, 
was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  under 
exceptional circumstances. 
30/30 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
