EMA/476178/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004411 
EPAR summary for the public 
Verkazia 
ciclosporin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Verkazia. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use.  
It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Verkazia. 
For practical information about using Verkazia, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Verkazia and what is it used for? 
Verkazia is a medicine used to treat severe vernal keratoconjunctivitis (VKC), an allergic condition that 
affects the eye and mostly occurs seasonally, although in some patients symptoms can recur or persist 
all year round. It is used in children and adolescents from 4 to 18 years of age.  
Because the number of patients with vernal keratoconjunctivitis is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, 
and Verkazia was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 6 April 2006. 
Verkazia contains the active substance ciclosporin. 
How is Verkazia used? 
Verkazia can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started by a healthcare 
professional qualified in ophthalmology (eye medicine). 
Verkazia is available as eye drops. The recommended dose is 1 drop 4 times a day in each affected 
eye, during VKC season. If symptoms persist after the end of the season, Verkazia can continue to be 
used at the recommended dose until symptoms are under control and at a reduced dose (1 drop twice 
a day) thereafter. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Verkazia work? 
The active substance in Verkazia, ciclosporin, blocks cells of the immune system (the body’s natural 
defences) that are involved in the processes that cause the allergic reaction and inflammation in 
patients with VKC. Applying it directly to the eye reduces eye inflammation but limits its effects 
elsewhere in the body. 
What benefits of Verkazia have been shown in studies? 
Verkazia reduces damage to the cornea (layer in the front of the eye) in most patients with VKC as 
shown by improvements in ‘corneal fluorescence staining’ (CFS) scores (a standard measure of corneal 
health). 
In a main study involving 169 children and adolescents with severe VKC, 55% of patients treated with 
Verkazia achieved CFS improvements of 50% or more, without the need of other medications, after 4 
months, compared with around 28% of patients receiving a dummy treatment. Symptoms such as 
itching, fluid or mucous discharge and light sensitivity also improved in patients treated with Verkazia 
to a greater extent than with the dummy treatment. Some of the patients were treated for an 
additional 8 months; this extension study showed that the benefits of Verkazia were maintained with 
continued use for up to 12 months. 
What are the risks associated with Verkazia? 
The most common side effects with Verkazia are eye pain and itching, which may affect around 1 in 10 
people. These symptoms usually occur when the drops are being put in the eyes and go away shortly 
after.  
Verkazia must not be used in patients with active or suspected infections in or around the eye. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Verkazia, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Verkazia approved? 
Verkazia has been shown to be effective at improving the condition of the cornea and reducing the 
symptoms of the disease. Side effects are mostly mild and disappear shortly after application of the 
medicine. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Verkazia’s benefits are greater than 
its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Verkazia? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Verkazia have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Verkazia 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Verkazia on 6 July 2018. 
The full EPAR for Verkazia can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
Verkazia  
EMA/476178/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
treatment with Verkazia, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Verkazia can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2018. 
Verkazia  
EMA/476178/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
