Summary of the Risk Management Plan for Verquvo® 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Verquvo®. The RMP details 
important risks of Verquvo®, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Verquvo®'s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Verquvo®'s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Verquvo® should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Verquvo® should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Verquvo®'s RMP. 
The Medicine and what it is used for 
I. 
Verquvo® is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure in adult patients 
with reduced ejection fraction who are stabilised after a recent decompensation event 
requiring IV therapy. It is administered in conjunction with other heart failure therapies (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains vericiguat as the active substance and it is given by 
oral administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Verquvo®’s benefits can be found in Verquvo®’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/verquvo. 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or further 
Characterise the Risks  
Important risks of Verquvo®, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Verquvo®'s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Verquvo® is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Verquvo® are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Verquvo®. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Summary of Safety Concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
Use in patients with severe renal impairment 
(eGFR <15 mL/min/1.73 m2) 
Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Missing information: Use in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 
<15 mL/min/1.73 m2) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2 and 5.2. 
Routine risk communication recommending specific clinical 
measure to address the risk: 
•  Treatment with vericiguat is not recommended in patients with 
eGFR <15 mL/min/1.73 m2 at treatment initiation or on dialysis 
(SmPC Section 4.4) 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
•  Prescription-only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
Missing information: Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2 and 5.2 
Routine risk communication recommending specific clinical 
measure to address the risk: 
•  Treatment with vericiguat is not recommended in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment (SmPC Section 4.4) 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
•  Prescription-only medicine  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C 
Post-authorisation Development Plan  
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Verquvo® 
 
