EMA/309094/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005319 
Verquvo (vericiguat) 
An overview of Verquvo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Verquvo and what is it used for? 
Verquvo is a medicine used to  treat adults with long-term heart failure with  reduced ejection fraction 
who recently received intravenous (into  the vein) treatment because of worsening of their symptoms. 
Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction is when the heart does not  pump blood as well as it  should, 
especially when the amount of blood being pumped out  of the  heart is less than the body needs. Some 
common symptoms of heart failure are shortness of breath, tiredness, or swelling caused by a build-up 
of fluid. 
Verquvo contains the active substance vericiguat. 
How is Verquvo used? 
Verquvo is available as tablets, and the recommended starting  dose is 2.5 mg once a day. The dose 
should be doubled approximately every 2 weeks to reach the target maintenance dose of 10 mg once a 
day, if tolerated. The dose should be lowered or Verquvo stopped if the  patient does not  tolerate the 
medicine well.  Verquvo is given in combination with  other treatments for heart failure.  
The medicine can only be obtained with  a prescription. For more information about  using Verquvo, see 
the package leaflet or contact your healthcare provider. 
How does Verquvo work? 
The active substance in Verquvo, vericiguat, stimulates  an enzyme called ‘soluble guanylate cyclase’ 
(sGC) in the blood vessels, which causes them to relax and widen, making it easier for the heart to 
pump blood out.  
What benefits of Verquvo have been shown in studies? 
Verquvo has been shown to be effective in treating heart failure in one main study involving over 
5,000  patients with  long-term heart failure and reduced ejection fraction who had been recently 
treated for an increase in their symptoms. In the study, which lasted around one year, patients  were 
given either Verquvo or placebo (a dummy treatment)  in combination with  other medicines for heart 
failure.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
In the group treated with Verquvo, 35.5%  of patients (897 out  of 2,526)  either died as a result of 
heart and circulation problems or were admitted to hospital with  heart failure, compared to 38.5% 
(972  out of 2,524) of patients given placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Verquvo? 
The most common side effect with  Verquvo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is 
hypotension (low blood pressure).  
Verquvo must not be used together with  other sGC stimulators, such as riociguat. 
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions of Verquvo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Verquvo authorised in the EU? 
The main study found that Verquvo reduced deaths from heart and circulation problems or hospital 
admissions for heart failure. Although  the effect compared to placebo was modest, it was considered 
significant considering that the  patients included in the study were at high risk of hospitalisation  or 
death. The safety of Verquvo was considered acceptable and the medicine well-tolerated. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Verquvo’s benefits are greater than  its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the  EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Verquvo? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Verquvo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Verquvo are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with  Verquvo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to  protect patients. 
Other information about Verquvo 
Verquvo received a marketing authorisation  valid throughout  the EU on 16  July 2021. 
Further information on Verquvo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/verquvo.  
This overview was last updated in  07-2021. 
Verquvo (vericiguat)  
EMA/309094/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
