EMA/478238/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004454 
Veyvondi (vonicog alfa) 
An overview of Veyvondi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Veyvondi and what is it used for? 
Veyvondi is a medicine used to control bleeding in adults with von Willebrand disease (an inherited 
bleeding disorder) who cannot be treated with desmopressin (another medicine to stop bleedings) or in 
whom desmopressin does not work.  
It is used to prevent and treat bleeding episodes, including during surgery. 
Veyvondi contains the active substance vonicog alfa. 
How is Veyvondi used? 
Veyvondi can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor 
experienced in treating patients with bleeding disorders. 
Veyvondi is given as an injection into a vein. The dose and frequency of the injections depend on 
whether Veyvondi is used during surgery or to treat or prevent bleeding episodes.  
For more information about using Veyvondi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Veyvondi work? 
Patients with von Willebrand disease lack von Willebrand factor, a protein needed for normal clotting of 
the blood, and as a result, they bleed readily. The active substance in Veyvondi, vonicog alfa, is 
produced in the laboratory and works in the same way as natural von Willebrand factor. It replaces the 
missing protein, thereby helping the blood to clot and allowing the bleeding to be controlled. 
What benefits of Veyvondi have been shown in studies? 
Veyvondi has been shown to be effective at controlling bleeding episodes in three main studies in 
adults with von Willebrand disease. Veyvondi was not compared with any other treatments in these 
studies. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The first study involved 37 patients who were given Veyvondi for the treatment of bleeding episodes. 
The main measure of effectiveness was based on an assessment of how well the treatment worked. 
Treatment with Veyvondi was successful in 95% of patients (20 out of 22). A total of 193 bleeding 
episodes were recorded, and Veyvondi was rated ‘excellent’ or ‘good’ at treating around 98% of 
bleedings.  
The second study involved 15 patients who were given Veyvondi to prevent bleeding during surgery, 
including major surgery such as knee replacement. In the 15 major and minor surgeries that occurred 
during the study, Veyvondi was rated as excellent or good at preventing bleeding episodes for all 15 
surgeries. 
A third study was carried out in 23 patients with severe von Willebrand disease who received Veyvondi 
as a preventive treatment to avoid bleeding episodes. Before the study, patients had either been using 
von Willebrand factor treatment on demand and had experienced at least 3 spontaneous bleeds 
requiring treatment in the last year, or they had been using a plasma-derived von Willebrand factor 
preventively for at least 12 months. Plasma-derived means the product was produced from human 
plasma (the liquid part of blood). 
In the 13 patients who had previously been using on-demand treatment, preventive treatment with 
Veyvondi reduced the number of annual bleedings by about 92% compared with the average number 
in the year before Veyvondi treatment.  
In the 10 patients who had been receiving a plasma-derived von Willebrand factor to prevent 
bleedings, preventive treatment with Veyvondi reduced the number of annual bleedings by 45% 
compared with the average number in the year before switching to Veyvondi.  
What are the risks associated with Veyvondi? 
For the full list of side effects with Veyvondi, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effect with Veyvondi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is headache. 
The following side effects may also occur during treatment with Veyvondi: hypersensitivity (allergic) 
reactions, thromboembolic events (problems due to the formation of blood clots in the blood vessels), 
development of inhibitors (antibodies) against von Willebrand factor, causing the medicine to stop 
working and resulting in a loss of bleeding control. 
Veyvondi must not be used in patients who have had allergic reactions to mouse or hamster proteins. 
Why is Veyvondi authorised in the EU? 
Veyvondi was shown to be effective in preventing and treating bleeding episodes in patients with von 
Willebrand disease. Veyvondi was also effective for preventing and treating bleedings related to 
surgery. Veyvondi should be used only when desmopressin (the main treatment for von Willebrand 
disease) cannot be used or is not working well enough. The Agency noted that there are uncertainties 
related to the small number of patients recruited in the studies and the lack of a direct comparator; 
however, this was considered acceptable given the rarity of the disease. The side effects with Veyvondi 
were considered typical for this type of medicine.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Veyvondi’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
Veyvondi (vonicog alfa)  
EMA/478238/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Veyvondi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Veyvondi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Veyvondi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Veyvondi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Veyvondi 
Veyvondi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 August 2018. 
Further information on Veyvondi can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2023. 
Veyvondi (vonicog alfa)  
EMA/478238/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
