ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets  
VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each tablet contains 50 or 200 mg voriconazole.  
Excipient with known effect  
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets  
Each tablet contains 63.42 mg lactose monohydrate. 
VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets 
Each tablet contains 253.675 mg lactose monohydrate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets  
White to off-white, round tablet, debossed “Pfizer” on one side and “VOR50” on the reverse (tablets). 
VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets 
White to off-white, capsule-shaped tablet, debossed “Pfizer” on one side and “VOR200” on the reverse 
(tablets). 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
VFEND, is a broad-spectrum, triazole antifungal agent and is indicated in adults and children aged 2 years 
and above as follows: 
Treatment of invasive aspergillosis. 
Treatment of candidaemia in non-neutropenic patients.  
Treatment of fluconazole-resistant serious invasive Candida infections (including C. krusei).  
Treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium spp. and Fusarium spp. 
VFEND should be administered primarily to patients with progressive, possibly life-threatening infections. 
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in high risk allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) 
recipients.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Posology 
Electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia and hypocalcaemia should be monitored 
and corrected, if necessary, prior to initiation and during voriconazole therapy (see section 4.4). 
VFEND is also available as 200 mg powder for solution for infusion and 40 mg/ml powder for oral 
suspension. 
Treatment 
Adults  
Therapy must be initiated with the specified loading dose regimen of either intravenous or oral VFEND to 
achieve plasma concentrations on Day 1 that are close to steady state. On the basis of the high oral 
bioavailability (96%; see section 5.2), switching between intravenous and oral administration is appropriate 
when clinically indicated. 
Detailed information on dosage recommendations is provided in the following table: 
Intravenous  
Oral  
6 mg/kg every 12 hours 
Patients 40 kg and 
above*  
400 mg every 12 hours 
Patients less than 40 kg* 
200 mg every 12 hours 
4 mg/kg twice daily 
200 mg twice daily 
100 mg twice daily 
Loading dose  
regimen  
(first 24 hours)  
Maintenance dose 
(after first 24 hours)  
* This also applies to patients aged 15 years and older 
Duration of treatment  
Treatment duration should be as short as possible depending on the patient’s clinical and mycological 
response. Long term exposure to voriconazole greater than 180 days (6 months) requires careful assessment 
of the benefit-risk balance (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Dosage adjustment (Adults) 
If patient response to treatment is inadequate, the maintenance dose may be increased to 300 mg twice daily 
for oral administration. For patients less than 40 kg the oral dose may be increased to 150 mg twice daily. 
If patient is unable to tolerate treatment at a higher dose, reduce the oral dose by 50 mg steps to the 200 mg 
twice daily (or 100 mg twice daily for patients less than 40 kg) maintenance dose. 
In case of use as prophylaxis, refer below. 
Children (2 to <12 years) and young adolescents with low body weight (12 to 14 years and <50 kg) 
Voriconazole should be dosed as children as these young adolescents may metabolise voriconazole more 
similarly to children than to adults.  
The recommended dosing regimen is as follows: 
Loading Dose Regimen  
(first 24 hours) 
Maintenance Dose 
(after first 24 hours) 
Intravenous  
9 mg/kg every 12 hours 
Oral 
Not recommended 
8 mg/kg twice daily  
9 mg/kg twice daily  
(a maximum dose of 350 mg twice 
daily) 
Note:  Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 112 immunocompromised paediatric patients aged 
2 to <12 years and 26 immunocompromised adolescents aged 12 to <17 years.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is recommended to initiate the therapy with intravenous regimen, and oral regimen should be considered 
only after there is a significant clinical improvement. It should be noted that an 8 mg/kg intravenous dose 
will provide voriconazole exposure approximately 2-fold higher than a 9 mg/kg oral dose. 
These oral dose recommendations for children are based on studies in which voriconazole was administered 
as the powder for oral suspension. Bioequivalence between the powder for oral suspension and tablets has 
not been investigated in a paediatric population. Considering the assumed limited gastro-enteric transit time 
in paediatric patients, the absorption of tablets may be different in paediatric compared to adult patients. It is 
therefore recommended to use the oral suspension formulation in children aged 2 to <12.  
All other adolescents (12 to 14 years and ≥50 kg; 15 to 17 years regardless of body weight) 
Voriconazole should be dosed as adults. 
Dosage adjustment (Children [2 to <12 years] and young adolescents with low body weight [12 to 14 years 
and <50 kg]) 
If patient response to treatment is inadequate, the dose may be increased by 1 mg/kg steps (or by 50 mg steps 
if the maximum oral dose of 350 mg was used initially). If patient is unable to tolerate treatment, reduce the 
dose by 1 mg/kg steps (or by 50 mg steps if the maximum oral dose of 350 mg was used initially). 
Use in paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years with hepatic or renal insufficiency has not been studied (see 
sections 4.8 and 5.2).  
Prophylaxis in Adults and Children 
Prophylaxis should be initiated on the day of transplant and may be administered for up to 100 days. 
Prophylaxis should be as short as possible depending on the risk for developing invasive fungal infection 
(IFI) as defined by neutropenia or immunosuppression. It may only be continued up to 180 days after 
transplantation in case of continuing immunosuppression or graft versus host disease (GvHD) (see section 
5.1).  
Dosage  
The recommended dosing regimen for prophylaxis is the same as for treatment in the respective age groups. 
Please refer to the treatment tables above. 
Duration of prophylaxis 
The safety and efficacy of voriconazole use for longer than 180 days has not been adequately studied in 
clinical trials. 
Use of voriconazole in prophylaxis for greater than 180 days (6 months) requires careful assessment of the 
benefit-risk balance (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The following instructions apply to both Treatment and Prophylaxis 
Dosage adjustment 
For prophylaxis use, dose adjustments are not recommended in the case of lack of efficacy or 
treatment-related adverse events. In the case of treatment-related adverse events, discontinuation of 
voriconazole and use of alternative antifungal agents must be considered (see sections 4.4 and 4.8) 
Dosage adjustments in case of coadministration 
Phenytoin may be coadministered with voriconazole if the maintenance dose of voriconazole is increased 
from 200 mg to 400 mg orally, twice daily (100 mg to 200 mg orally, twice daily in patients less than 40 kg), 
see sections 4.4 and 4.5. 
The combination of voriconazole with rifabutin should, if possible be avoided. However, if the combination 
is strictly needed, the maintenance dose of voriconazole may be increased from 200 mg to 350 mg orally, 
twice daily (100 mg to 200 mg orally, twice daily in patients less than 40 kg), see sections 4.4 and 4.5. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efavirenz may be coadministered with voriconazole if the maintenance dose of voriconazole is increased to 
400 mg every 12 hours and the efavirenz dose is reduced by 50%, i.e. to 300 mg once daily. When treatment 
with voriconazole is stopped, the initial dosage of efavirenz should be restored (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Elderly  
No dose adjustment is necessary for elderly patients (see section 5.2).  
Renal impairment  
The pharmacokinetics of orally administered voriconazole are not affected by renal impairment. Therefore, 
no adjustment is necessary for oral dosing for patients with mild to severe renal impairment (see section 5.2).  
Voriconazole is haemodialysed with a clearance of 121 ml/min. A 4-hour haemodialysis session does not 
remove a sufficient amount of voriconazole to warrant dose adjustment.  
Hepatic impairment  
It is recommended that the standard loading dose regimens be used but that the maintenance dose be halved 
in patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A and B) receiving voriconazole (see section 
5.2).  
Voriconazole has not been studied in patients with severe chronic hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh C).  
There is limited data on the safety of VFEND in patients with abnormal liver function tests (aspartate 
transaminase [AST], alanine transaminase [ALT], alkaline phosphatase [ALP], or total bilirubin >5 times the 
upper limit of normal). 
Voriconazole has been associated with elevations in liver function tests and clinical signs of liver damage, 
such as jaundice, and must only be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment if the benefit outweighs 
the potential risk. Patients with severe hepatic impairment must be carefully monitored for drug toxicity (see 
section 4.8).  
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of VFEND in children below 2 years has not been established. Currently available 
data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology can be made.  
Method of administration 
VFEND film-coated tablets are to be taken at least one hour before, or one hour following, a meal. 
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Coadministration with CYP3A4 substrates, terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine or 
ivabradine since increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products can lead to QTc prolongation 
and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration with rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital and St John’s Wort since these medicinal 
products are likely to decrease plasma voriconazole concentrations significantly (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration of standard doses of voriconazole with efavirenz doses of 400 mg once daily or higher is 
contraindicated, because efavirenz significantly decreases plasma voriconazole concentrations in healthy 
subjects at these doses. Voriconazole also significantly increases efavirenz plasma concentrations (see 
section 4.5, for lower doses see section 4.4). 
Coadministration with high-dose ritonavir (400 mg and above twice daily) because ritonavir significantly 
decreases plasma voriconazole concentrations in healthy subjects at this dose (see section 4.5, for lower 
doses see section 4.4).  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coadministration with ergot alkaloids (ergotamine, dihydroergotamine), which are CYP3A4 substrates, since 
increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products can lead to ergotism (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration with sirolimus since voriconazole is likely to increase plasma concentrations of sirolimus 
significantly (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration of voriconazole with naloxegol, a CYP3A4 substrate, since increased plasma 
concentrations of naloxegol can precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms (see section 4.5). 
Coadministration of voriconazole with tolvaptan since strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as voriconazole 
significantly increase plasma concentrations of tolvaptan (see section 4.5). 
Coadministration of voriconazole with lurasidone since significant increases in lurasidone exposure have the 
potential for serious adverse reactions (see section 4.5). 
Coadministration with venetoclax at initiation and during venetoclax dose titration phase since voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase plasma concentrations of venetoclax and increase risk of tumour lysis 
syndrome (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Hypersensitivity 
Caution should be used in prescribing VFEND to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles (see also 
section 4.8).  
Cardiovascular  
Voriconazole has been associated with QTc interval prolongation. There have been rare cases of torsades de 
pointes in patients taking voriconazole who had risk factors, such as history of cardiotoxic chemotherapy, 
cardiomyopathy, hypokalaemia and concomitant medicinal products that may have been contributory. 
Voriconazole should be administered with caution to patients with potentially proarrhythmic conditions, 
such as:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation.  
Cardiomyopathy, in particular when heart failure is present.  
Sinus bradycardia.  
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias.  
Concomitant medicinal product that is known to prolong QTc interval. Electrolyte disturbances such 
as hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia and hypocalcaemia should be monitored and corrected, if 
necessary, prior to initiation and during voriconazole therapy (see section 4.2). A study has been 
conducted in healthy volunteers which examined the effect on QTc interval of single doses of 
voriconazole up to 4 times the usual daily dose. No subject experienced an interval exceeding the 
potentially clinically-relevant threshold of 500 msec (see section 5.1).  
Hepatic toxicity  
In clinical trials, there have been cases of serious hepatic reactions during treatment with voriconazole 
(including clinical hepatitis, cholestasis and fulminant hepatic failure, including fatalities). Instances of 
hepatic reactions were noted to occur primarily in patients with serious underlying medical conditions 
(predominantly haematological malignancy). Transient hepatic reactions, including hepatitis and jaundice, 
have occurred among patients with no other identifiable risk factors. Liver dysfunction has usually been 
reversible on discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.8).  
Monitoring of hepatic function  
Patients receiving VFEND must be carefully monitored for hepatic toxicity. Clinical management should 
include laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (specifically AST and ALT) at the initiation of treatment 
with VFEND and at least weekly for the first month of treatment. Treatment duration should be as short as 
possible; however, if based on the benefit-risk assessment the treatment is continued (see section 4.2), 
monitoring frequency can be reduced to monthly if there are no changes in the liver function tests.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the liver function tests become markedly elevated, VFEND should be discontinued, unless the medical 
judgment of the risk-benefit of the treatment for the patient justifies continued use.  
Monitoring of hepatic function should be carried out in both children and adults. 
Serious dermatological adverse reactions 
•  Phototoxicity 
In addition VFEND has been associated with phototoxicity including reactions such as ephelides, 
lentigo, actinic keratosis and pseudoporphyria. There is a potential increased risk of skin 
reactions/toxicity with concomitant use of photosensitising agents (e.g., methotrexate, etc). It is 
recommended that all patients, including children, avoid exposure to direct sunlight during VFEND 
treatment and use measures such as protective clothing and sunscreen with high sun protection factor 
(SPF). 
•  Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (SCC) 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (including cutaneous SCC in situ, or Bowen’s disease) has 
been reported in patients, some of whom have reported prior phototoxic reactions. If phototoxic 
reactions occur multidisciplinary advice should be sought, VFEND discontinuation and use of 
alternative antifungal agents should be considered and the patient should be referred to a 
dermatologist. If VFEND is continued, however, dermatologic evaluation should be performed on a 
systematic and regular basis, to allow early detection and management of premalignant lesions. 
VFEND should be discontinued if premalignant skin lesions or squamous cell carcinoma are 
identified (see below the section under Long-term treatment). 
•  Severe cutaneous adverse reactions 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), 
which can be life-threatening or fatal, have been reported with the use of voriconazole. If a patient 
develops a rash he should be monitored closely and VFEND discontinued if lesions progress. 
Adrenal events 
Reversible cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported in patients receiving azoles including 
voriconazole. Adrenal insufficiency has been reported in patients receiving azoles with or without 
concomitant corticosteroids. In patients receiving azoles without corticosteroids, adrenal insufficiency is 
related to direct inhibition of steroidogenesis by azoles. In patients taking corticosteroids, voriconazole 
associated CYP3A4 inhibition of their metabolism may lead to corticosteroid excess and adrenal suppression 
(see section 4.5). Cushing’s syndrome with and without subsequent adrenal insufficiency has also been 
reported in patients receiving voriconazole concomitantly with corticosteroids. 
Patients on long-term treatment with voriconazole and corticosteroids (including inhaled corticosteroids e.g., 
budesonide and intranasal corticosteroids) should be carefully monitored for adrenal cortex dysfunction both 
during treatment and when voriconazole is discontinued (see section 4.5). Patients should be instructed to 
seek immediate medical care if they develop signs and symptoms of Cushing’s syndrome or adrenal 
insufficiency. 
Long-term treatment 
Long term exposure (treatment or prophylaxis) greater than 180 days (6 months) requires careful assessment 
of the benefit-risk balance and physicians should therefore consider the need to limit the exposure to VFEND 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (SCC) (including cutaneous SCC in situ, or Bowen’s disease) has been 
reported in relation with long-term VFEND treatment (see section 4.8). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-infectious periostitis with elevated fluoride and alkaline phosphatase levels has been reported in 
transplant patients. If a patient develops skeletal pain and radiologic findings compatible with periostitis 
VFEND discontinuation should be considered after multidisciplinary advice (see section 4.8). 
Visual adverse reactions  
There have been reports of prolonged visual adverse reactions, including blurred vision, optic neuritis and 
papilloedema (see section 4.8). 
Renal adverse reactions  
Acute renal failure has been observed in severely ill patients undergoing treatment with VFEND. Patients 
being treated with voriconazole are likely to be treated concomitantly with nephrotoxic medicinal products 
and have concurrent conditions that may result in decreased renal function (see section 4.8).  
Monitoring of renal function  
Patients should be monitored for the development of abnormal renal function. This should include laboratory 
evaluation, particularly serum creatinine.  
Monitoring of pancreatic function  
Patients, especially children, with risk factors for acute pancreatitis (e.g., recent chemotherapy, 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation [HSCT]), should be monitored closely during VFEND treatment. 
Monitoring of serum amylase or lipase may be considered in this clinical situation. 
Paediatric population  
Safety and effectiveness in paediatric subjects below the age of two years has not been established (see 
sections 4.8 and 5.1). Voriconazole is indicated for paediatric patients aged two years or older. A higher 
frequency of liver enzyme elevations was observed in the paediatric population (see section 4.8). Hepatic 
function should be monitored in both children and adults. Oral bioavailability may be limited in paediatric 
patients aged 2 to <12 years with malabsorption and very low body weight for age. In that case, intravenous 
voriconazole administration is recommended.  
•  Serious dermatological adverse reactions (including SCC) 
The frequency of phototoxicity reactions is higher in the paediatric population. As an evolution 
towards SCC has been reported, stringent measures for the photoprotection are warranted in this 
population of patients. In children experiencing photoaging injuries such as lentigines or ephelides, 
sun avoidance and dermatologic follow-up are recommended even after treatment discontinuation. 
Prophylaxis 
In case of treatment-related adverse events (hepatotoxicity, severe skin reactions including phototoxicity and 
SCC, severe or prolonged visual disorders and periostitis), discontinuation of voriconazole and use of 
alternative antifungal agents must be considered. 
Phenytoin (CYP2C9 substrate and potent CYP450 inducer)  
Careful monitoring of phenytoin levels is recommended when phenytoin is coadministered with 
voriconazole. Concomitant use of voriconazole and phenytoin should be avoided unless the benefit 
outweighs the risk (see section 4.5).  
Efavirenz (CYP450 inducer; CYP3A4 inhibitor and substrate) 
When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz the dose of voriconazole should be increased to 400 mg 
every 12 hours and the dose of efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours (see sections 4.2, 4.3 
and 4.5).  
Glasdegib (CYP3A4 substrate)  
Coadministration of voriconazole is expected to increase glasdegib plasma concentrations and increase the 
risk of QTc prolongation (see section 4.5). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, frequent ECG monitoring 
is recommended. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (CYP3A4 substrate)  
Coadministration of voriconazole with tyrosine kinase inhibitors metabolised by CYP3A4 is expected to 
increase tyrosine kinase inhibitor plasma concentrations and the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use 
cannot be avoided, dose reduction of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor and close clinical monitoring is 
recommended (see section 4.5). 
Rifabutin (potent CYP450 inducer)  
Careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions to rifabutin (e.g., uveitis) is recommended when 
rifabutin  is  coadministered  with  voriconazole.  Concomitant  use  of  voriconazole  and  rifabutin  should  be 
avoided unless the benefit outweighs the risk (see section 4.5).  
Ritonavir (potent CYP450 inducer; CYP3A4 inhibitor and substrate)  
Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg twice daily) should be avoided unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole (see sections 4.3 and 4.5).  
Everolimus (CYP3A4 substrate, P-gp substrate) 
Coadministration of voriconazole with everolimus is not recommended because voriconazole is expected to 
significantly increase everolimus concentrations. Currently there are insufficient data to allow dosing 
recommendations in this situation (see section 4.5). 
Methadone (CYP3A4 substrate) 
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to methadone, including QTc prolongation, is 
recommended when coadministered with voriconazole since methadone levels increased following 
coadministration of voriconazole. Dose reduction of methadone may be needed (see section 4.5).  
Short-acting opiates (CYP3A4 substrate) 
Reduction in the dose of alfentanil, fentanyl and other short-acting opiates similar in structure to alfentanil 
and metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g., sufentanil) should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole 
(see section 4.5). As the half-life of alfentanil is prolonged in a 4-fold manner when alfentanil is 
coadministered with voriconazole, and in an independent published study concomitant use of voriconazole 
with fentanyl resulted in an increase in the mean AUC0-∞ of fentanyl, frequent monitoring for 
opiate-associated adverse reactions (including a longer respiratory monitoring period) may be necessary. 
Long-acting opiates (CYP3A4 substrate) 
Reduction in the dose of oxycodone and other long-acting opiates metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g., 
hydrocodone) should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole. Frequent monitoring for 
opiate-associated adverse reactions may be necessary (see section 4.5). 
Fluconazole (CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 inhibitor)  
Coadministration of oral voriconazole and oral fluconazole resulted in a significant increase in Cmax and 
AUCτ of voriconazole in healthy subjects. The reduced dose and/or frequency of voriconazole and 
fluconazole that would eliminate this effect have not been established. Monitoring for 
voriconazole-associated adverse reactions is recommended if voriconazole is used sequentially after 
fluconazole (see section 4.5).  
Excipients 
Lactose 
This medicinal product contains lactose and should not be given to patients with rare hereditary problems of 
galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption.  
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet. Patients on low sodium diets 
should be informed that this medicinal product is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Voriconazole is metabolised by, and inhibits the activity of, cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, CYP2C19, 
CYP2C9, and CYP3A4. Inhibitors or inducers of these isoenzymes may increase or decrease voriconazole 
plasma concentrations, respectively, and there is potential for voriconazole to increase the plasma 
concentrations of substances metabolised by these CYP450 isoenzymes, in particular for substances 
metabolised by CYP3A4 since voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor though the increase in AUC is 
substrate dependent (see Table below). 
Unless otherwise specified, drug interaction studies have been performed in healthy adult male subjects 
using multiple dosing to steady state with oral voriconazole at 200 mg twice daily (BID). These results are 
relevant to other populations and routes of administration.  
Voriconazole should be administered with caution in patients with concomitant medication that is known to 
prolong QTc interval. When there is also a potential for voriconazole to increase the plasma concentrations 
of substances metabolised by CYP3A4 isoenzymes (certain antihistamines, quinidine, cisapride, pimozide 
and ivabradine), coadministration is contraindicated (see below and section 4.3). 
Interaction table 
Interactions between voriconazole and other medicinal products are listed in the table below (once daily as 
“QD”, twice daily as “BID”, three times daily as “TID” and not determined as “ND”). The direction of the 
arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean 
ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) the 80-125% range. The asterisk (*) indicates a two-way 
interaction. AUC, AUCt and AUC0- represent area under the curve over a dosing interval, from time zero to 
the time with detectable measurement and from time zero to infinity, respectively. 
The interactions in the table are presented in the following order: contraindications, those requiring dose 
adjustment and careful clinical and/or biological monitoring, and finally those that have no significant 
pharmacokinetic interaction but may be of clinical interest in this therapeutic field. 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, 
quinidine, terfenadine and 
ivabradine 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Carbamazepine and long-acting 
barbiturates (including but not 
limited to: phenobarbital, 
mephobarbital)  
[potent CYP450 inducers] 
Although not studied, increased 
plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products can lead to QTc 
prolongation and rare occurrences 
of torsades de pointes. 
Although not studied, 
carbamazepine and long-acting 
barbiturates are likely to 
significantly decrease plasma 
voriconazole concentrations. 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Efavirenz (a non-nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitor) 
[CYP450 inducer; CYP3A4 
inhibitor and substrate] 
Efavirenz 400 mg QD, 
coadministered with 
voriconazole 200 mg BID* 
Efavirenz 300 mg QD, 
coadministered with 
voriconazole 400 mg BID* 
Ergot alkaloids (including but not 
limited to: ergotamine and 
dihydroergotamine) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Lurasidone  
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Naloxegol 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Rifabutin  
[potent CYP450 inducer] 
300 mg QD  
300 mg QD (coadministered with 
voriconazole 350 mg BID)* 
300 mg QD (coadministered with 
voriconazole 400 mg BID)* 
Efavirenz Cmax  38% 
Efavirenz AUC  44% 
Voriconazole Cmax  61% 
Voriconazole AUC  77% 
Compared to efavirenz 600 mg QD, 
Efavirenz Cmax ↔ 
Efavirenz AUC  17% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  23% 
Voriconazole AUC  7% 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of ergot alkaloids 
and lead to ergotism. 
Although not studied, 
voriconazole is likely to 
significantly increase the plasma 
concentrations of lurasidone. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of naloxegol. 
Voriconazole Cmax  69% 
Voriconazole AUC  78% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  4% 
Voriconazole AUC  32%  
Rifabutin Cmax  195% 
Rifabutin AUC  331% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  104% 
Voriconazole AUC  87%  
Use of standard doses of 
voriconazole with efavirenz 
doses of 400 mg QD or higher 
is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).  
Voriconazole may be 
coadministered with efavirenz 
if the voriconazole 
maintenance dose is increased 
to 400 mg BID and the 
efavirenz dose is decreased to 
300 mg QD. When 
voriconazole treatment is 
stopped, the initial dose of 
efavirenz should be restored 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Concomitant use of 
voriconazole and rifabutin 
should be avoided unless the 
benefit outweighs the risk. 
The maintenance dose of 
voriconazole may be increased 
to 5 mg/kg intravenously BID 
or from 200 mg to 350 mg 
orally BID (100 mg to 200 mg 
orally BID in patients less than 
40 kg) (see section 4.2).  
Careful monitoring of full 
blood counts and adverse 
reactions to rifabutin (e.g., 
uveitis) is recommended when 
rifabutin is coadministered 
with voriconazole. 
Rifampicin (600 mg QD) 
[potent CYP450 inducer] 
Voriconazole Cmax  93% 
Voriconazole AUC  96% 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Ritonavir (protease inhibitor)  
[potent CYP450 inducer; 
CYP3A4 inhibitor and substrate] 
High dose (400 mg BID) 
Low dose (100 mg BID)* 
St. John’s Wort  
[CYP450 inducer; P-gp inducer] 
300 mg TID (coadministered 
with voriconazole 400 mg single 
dose) 
Tolvaptan  
[CYP3A substrate] 
Venetoclax  
[CYP3A substrate] 
Ritonavir Cmax and AUC ↔ 
Voriconazole Cmax  66% 
Voriconazole AUC  82% 
Ritonavir Cmax  25% 
Ritonavir AUC 13% 
Voriconazole Cmax  24% 
Voriconazole AUC  39% 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and high doses of 
ritonavir (400 mg and above 
BID) is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and low-dose 
ritonavir (100 mg BID) should 
be avoided unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk 
to the patient justifies the use 
of voriconazole. 
In an independent published study,  
Voriconazole AUC0-  59% 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of tolvaptan. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of 
venetoclax. 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Concomitant administration of 
voriconazole is 
contraindicated at initiation 
and during venetoclax dose 
titration phase (see section 
4.3). Dose reduction of 
venetoclax is required as 
instructed in venetoclax 
prescribing information during 
steady daily dosing; close 
monitoring for signs of 
toxicity is recommended. 
The reduced dose and/or 
frequency of voriconazole and 
fluconazole that would 
eliminate this effect have not 
been established. Monitoring 
for voriconazole-associated 
adverse reactions is 
recommended if voriconazole 
is used sequentially after 
fluconazole. 
Fluconazole (200 mg QD) 
[CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and 
CYP3A4 inhibitor] 
Voriconazole Cmax  57% 
Voriconazole AUC  79% 
Fluconazole Cmax ND 
Fluconazole AUC ND 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Phenytoin  
[CYP2C9 substrate and potent 
CYP450 inducer] 
300 mg QD 
300 mg QD (coadministered with 
voriconazole 400 mg BID)* 
Voriconazole Cmax  49% 
Voriconazole AUC  69% 
Phenytoin Cmax  67% 
Phenytoin AUC  81% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  34% 
Voriconazole AUC  39% 
Letermovir  
[CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 
inducer] 
Voriconazole Cmax ↓ 39% 
Voriconazole AUC0-12 ↓ 44% 
Voriconazole C12 ↓ 51%  
Flucloxacillin 
[CYP450 inducer] 
Significantly decreased plasma 
voriconazole concentrations have 
been reported.  
Glasdegib 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
(including but not limited to: 
axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, 
ceritinib, cobimetinib, 
dabrafenib, dasatinib, nilotinib, 
sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of glasdegib and 
increase risk of QTc prolongation. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
may increase plasma concentrations 
of tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
metabolised by CYP3A4. 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Concomitant use of 
voriconazole and phenytoin 
should be avoided unless the 
benefit outweighs the risk. 
Careful monitoring of 
phenytoin plasma levels is 
recommended.  
Phenytoin may be 
coadministered with 
voriconazole if the 
maintenance dose of 
voriconazole is increased to 
5 mg/kg IV BID or from 
200 mg to 400 mg oral BID 
(100 mg to 200 mg oral BID in 
patients less than 40 kg) (see 
section 4.2).  
If concomitant administration 
of voriconazole with 
letermovir cannot be avoided, 
monitor for loss of 
voriconazole effectiveness. 
If concomitant administration 
of voriconazole with 
flucloxacillin cannot be 
avoided, monitor for potential 
loss of voriconazole 
effectiveness (e.g., by 
therapeutic drug monitoring); 
increasing the dose of 
voriconazole may be needed.  
If concomitant use cannot be 
avoided, frequent ECG 
monitoring is recommended 
(see section 4.4). 
If concomitant use cannot be 
avoided, dose reduction of the 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor and 
close clinical monitoring is 
recommended (see section 
4.4). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Close monitoring of 
prothrombin time or other 
suitable anticoagulation tests is 
recommended, and the dose of 
anticoagulants should be 
adjusted accordingly.  
Dose reduction of ivacaftor is 
recommended. 
Dose reduction of 
benzodiazepines should be 
considered.  
Anticoagulants 
Warfarin (30 mg single dose, 
coadministered with 300 mg BID 
voriconazole) 
[CYP2C9 substrate] 
Other oral coumarins 
(including but not limited to: 
phenprocoumon, acenocoumarol) 
[CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 
substrates] 
Ivacaftor 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Benzodiazepines  
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Maximum increase in prothrombin 
time was approximately 2-fold. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
may increase the plasma 
concentrations of coumarins that 
may cause an increase in 
prothrombin time. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of ivacaftor with risk 
of increased adverse reactions. 
Midazolam (0.05 mg/kg IV 
single dose) 
In an independent published study,  
Midazolam AUC0-  3.7-fold 
Midazolam (7.5 mg oral 
single dose) 
Other benzodiazepines 
(including but not limited to: 
triazolam, alprazolam) 
In an independent published study,  
Midazolam Cmax  3.8-fold 
Midazolam AUC0-  10.3-fold 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of other 
benzodiazepines that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4 and lead 
to a prolonged sedative effect. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Immunosuppressants 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Sirolimus (2 mg single dose) 
Everolimus 
[also P-gp substrate] 
In an independent published study, 
Sirolimus Cmax  6.6-fold 
Sirolimus AUC0-  11-fold 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of 
everolimus. 
Ciclosporin (in stable renal 
transplant recipients receiving 
chronic ciclosporin therapy) 
Ciclosporin Cmax  13% 
Ciclosporin AUC  70% 
Tacrolimus (0.1 mg/kg single 
dose) 
Tacrolimus Cmax  117% 
Tacrolimus AUCt  221% 
Long-Acting Opiates 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Oxycodone (10 mg single dose) 
In an independent published study, 
Oxycodone Cmax  1.7-fold 
Oxycodone AUC0-  3.6-fold 
15 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and sirolimus is 
contraindicated (see section 
4.3). 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and everolimus is 
not recommended because 
voriconazole is expected to 
significantly increase 
everolimus concentrations (see 
section 4.4). 
When initiating voriconazole 
in patients already on 
ciclosporin it is recommended 
that the ciclosporin dose be 
halved and ciclosporin level 
carefully monitored. Increased 
ciclosporin levels have been 
associated with nephrotoxicity. 
When voriconazole is 
discontinued, ciclosporin 
levels must be carefully 
monitored and the dose 
increased as necessary. 
When initiating voriconazole 
in patients already on 
tacrolimus, it is recommended 
that the tacrolimus dose be 
reduced to a third of the 
original dose and tacrolimus 
level carefully monitored. 
Increased tacrolimus levels 
have been associated with 
nephrotoxicity. When 
voriconazole is discontinued, 
tacrolimus levels must be 
carefully monitored and the 
dose increased as necessary. 
Dose reduction in oxycodone 
and other long-acting opiates 
metabolised by CYP3A4 
(e.g., hydrocodone) should be 
considered. Frequent 
monitoring for 
opiate-associated adverse 
reactions may be necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Methadone (32-100 mg QD) 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
R-methadone (active) Cmax  31% 
R-methadone (active) AUC  47% 
S-methadone Cmax  65% 
S-methadone AUC  103% 
Non-Steroidal Anti-
Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) 
[CYP2C9 substrates] 
Ibuprofen (400 mg single dose) 
Diclofenac (50 mg single dose) 
Omeprazole (40 mg QD)* 
[CYP2C19 inhibitor; CYP2C19 
and CYP3A4 substrate] 
Oral Contraceptives*  
[CYP3A4 substrate; CYP2C19 
inhibitor] 
Norethisterone/ethinylestradiol 
(1 mg/0.035 mg QD)  
Short-acting Opiates 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
S-Ibuprofen Cmax  20% 
S-Ibuprofen AUC0-  100% 
Diclofenac Cmax  114% 
Diclofenac AUC0-  78% 
Omeprazole Cmax  116% 
Omeprazole AUC  280% 
Voriconazole Cmax  15% 
Voriconazole AUC  41% 
Other proton pump inhibitors that 
are CYP2C19 substrates may also 
be inhibited by voriconazole and 
may result in increased plasma 
concentrations of these medicinal 
products. 
Ethinylestradiol Cmax  36% 
Ethinylestradiol AUC  61% 
Norethisterone Cmax  15% 
Norethisterone AUC  53% 
Voriconazole Cmax  14% 
Voriconazole AUC  46% 
Alfentanil (20 μg/kg single dose, 
with concomitant naloxone) 
In an independent published study, 
Alfentanil AUC0-  6-fold 
Fentanyl (5 g/kg single dose) 
Statins (e.g., lovastatin) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
In an independent published study, 
Fentanyl AUC0-  1.34-fold 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of statins that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4 and could 
lead to rhabdomyolysis.  
Sulfonylureas (including but not 
limited to: tolbutamide, glipizide, 
glyburide) 
[CYP2C9 substrates] 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of sulfonylureas and 
cause hypoglycaemia. 
16 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Frequent monitoring for 
adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to methadone, 
including QTc prolongation, is 
recommended. Dose reduction 
of methadone may be needed. 
Frequent monitoring for 
adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to NSAIDs is 
recommended. Dose reduction 
of NSAIDs may be needed. 
No dose adjustment of 
voriconazole is recommended.  
When initiating voriconazole 
in patients already receiving 
omeprazole doses of 40 mg or 
above, it is recommended that 
the omeprazole dose be 
halved.  
Monitoring for adverse 
reactions related to oral 
contraceptives, in addition to 
those for voriconazole, is 
recommended.  
Dose reduction of alfentanil, 
fentanyl and other short-acting 
opiates similar in structure to 
alfentanil and metabolised by 
CYP3A4 (sufentanil) should 
be considered. Extended and 
frequent monitoring for 
respiratory depression and 
other opiate-associated adverse 
reactions is recommended.  
If concomitant administration 
of voriconazole with statins 
metabolised by CYP3A4 
cannot be avoided, dose 
reduction of the statin should 
be considered.  
Careful monitoring of blood 
glucose is recommended. Dose 
reduction of sulfonylureas 
should be considered.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Dose reduction of vinca 
alkaloids should be 
considered. 
Careful monitoring for any 
occurrence of drug toxicity 
and/or lack of efficacy, and 
dose adjustment may be 
needed. 
Careful monitoring for any 
occurrence of drug toxicity 
and/or lack of efficacy, and 
dose adjustment may be 
needed. 
Dose adjustment of tretinoin is 
recommended during 
treatment with voriconazole 
and after its discontinuation. 
No dose adjustment  
No dose adjustment  
No dose adjustment  
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of vinca alkaloids 
and lead to neurotoxicity. 
Not studied clinically. In vitro 
studies show that voriconazole may 
inhibit the metabolism of HIV 
protease inhibitors and the 
metabolism of voriconazole may 
also be inhibited by HIV protease 
inhibitors. 
Not studied clinically. In vitro 
studies show that the metabolism of 
voriconazole may be inhibited by 
NNRTIs and voriconazole may 
inhibit the metabolism of NNRTIs.  
The findings of the effect of 
efavirenz on voriconazole suggest 
that the metabolism of voriconazole 
may be induced by an NNRTI. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
may increase tretinoin 
concentrations and increase risk of 
adverse reactions (pseudotumor 
cerebri, hypercalcaemia). 
Voriconazole Cmax  18% 
Voriconazole AUC  23% 
Digoxin Cmax ↔ 
Digoxin AUC ↔ 
Indinavir Cmax ↔ 
Indinavir AUC ↔ 
Voriconazole Cmax ↔ 
Voriconazole AUC ↔ 
Vinca Alkaloids (including but 
not limited to: vincristine and 
vinblastine) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Other HIV Protease Inhibitors 
(including but not limited to: 
saquinavir, amprenavir and 
nelfinavir)* 
[CYP3A4 substrates and 
inhibitors] 
Other Non-Nucleoside Reverse 
Transcriptase Inhibitors 
(NNRTIs) (including but not 
limited to: delavirdine, 
nevirapine)* 
[CYP3A4 substrates, inhibitors 
or CYP450 inducers] 
Tretinoin 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Cimetidine (400 mg BID) 
[non-specific CYP450 inhibitor 
and increases gastric pH] 
Digoxin (0.25 mg QD) 
[P-gp substrate] 
Indinavir (800 mg TID) 
[CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
substrate] 
Macrolide antibiotics 
Erythromycin (1 g BID) 
[CYP3A4 inhibitor] 
Voriconazole Cmax and AUC ↔ 
No dose adjustment 
Azithromycin (500 mg QD) 
Voriconazole Cmax and AUC ↔ 
The effect of voriconazole on either 
erythromycin or azithromycin is 
unknown. 
Mycophenolic acid Cmax ↔ 
Mycophenolic acid AUCt ↔ 
No dose adjustment  
Mycophenolic acid (1 g single 
dose)  
[UDP-glucuronyl transferase 
substrate] 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Corticosteroids 
Prednisolone (60 mg single dose)  
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Prednisolone Cmax  11% 
Prednisolone AUC0-  34% 
Ranitidine (150 mg BID) 
[increases gastric pH] 
Voriconazole Cmax and AUC ↔ 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
No dose adjustment 
Patients on long-term 
treatment with voriconazole 
and corticosteroids (including 
inhaled corticosteroids e.g., 
budesonide and intranasal 
corticosteroids) should be 
carefully monitored for 
adrenal cortex dysfunction 
both during treatment and 
when voriconazole is 
discontinued (see section 4.4). 
No dose adjustment  
Pregnancy  
There are no adequate data on the use of VFEND in pregnant women available.  
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is 
unknown.  
VFEND must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential 
risk to the foetus.  
Women of child-bearing potential  
Women of child-bearing potential must always use effective contraception during treatment.  
Breast-feeding 
The excretion of voriconazole into breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on 
initiation of treatment with VFEND.  
Fertility 
In an animal study, no impairment of fertility was demonstrated in male and female rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
VFEND has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. It may cause transient and 
reversible changes to vision, including blurring, altered/enhanced visual perception and/or photophobia. 
Patients must avoid potentially hazardous tasks, such as driving or operating machinery while experiencing 
these symptoms.  
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of safety profile 
The safety profile of voriconazole in adults is based on an integrated safety database of more than 
2,000 subjects (including 1,603 adult patients in therapeutic trials) and an additional 270 adults in 
prophylaxis trials. This represents a heterogeneous population, containing patients with haematological 
malignancy, HIV-infected patients with oesophageal candidiasis and refractory fungal infections, 
non-neutropenic patients with candidaemia or aspergillosis and healthy volunteers.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions were visual impairment, pyrexia, rash, vomiting, nausea, 
diarrhoea, headache, peripheral oedema, liver function test abnormal, respiratory distress and abdominal 
pain. 
The severity of the adverse reactions was generally mild to moderate. No clinically significant differences 
were seen when the safety data were analysed by age, race, or gender.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
In the table below, since the majority of the studies were of an open nature, all causality adverse reactions 
and their frequency categories in 1,873 adults from pooled therapeutic (1,603) and prophylaxis (270) studies, 
by system organ class, are listed. 
Frequency categories are expressed as: Very common (1/10); Common (1/100 to 1/10); Uncommon 
(1/1,000 to 1/100); Rare (1/10,000 to 1/1,000); Very rare (1/10,000); Not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.  
Undesirable effects reported in subjects receiving voriconazole: 
System 
Organ Class 
Very common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000 
Frequenc
y 
not 
known 
(cannot be 
estimated 
from 
available 
data) 
Infections 
and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant 
and 
unspecified 
(including 
cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
sinusitis 
pseudomembrano
us colitis 
squamous cell 
carcinoma 
(including 
cutaneous SCC in 
situ, or Bowen’s 
disease)*,** 
agranulocytosis1, 
pancytopenia, 
thrombocytopenia2
, leukopenia, 
anaemia 
bone marrow 
failure, 
lymphadenopathy, 
eosinophilia 
disseminated 
intravascular 
coagulation 
hypersensitivity 
adrenal 
insufficiency, 
hypothyroidism 
anaphylactoid 
reaction 
hyperthyroidis
m 
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders 
oedema 
peripheral 
hypoglycaemia, 
hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
Organ Class 
Very common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000 
Frequenc
y 
not 
known 
(cannot be 
estimated 
from 
available 
data) 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
headache 
Nervous 
system 
disorders  
depression, 
hallucination, 
anxiety, insomnia, 
agitation, 
confusional state 
convulsion, 
syncope, tremor, 
hypertonia3, 
paraesthesia, 
somnolence, 
dizziness 
Eye disorders   visual 
impairment6 
retinal 
haemorrhage 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
arrhythmia 
supraventricular, 
tachycardia, 
bradycardia 
Vascular 
disorders  
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestin
al disorders  
hypotension, 
phlebitis 
acute respiratory 
distress syndrome, 
pulmonary 
oedema 
cheilitis, 
dyspepsia, 
constipation, 
gingivitis 
respiratory 
distress9 
diarrhoea, 
vomiting, 
abdominal 
pain, nausea 
20 
hepatic 
encephalopathy
, Guillain-Barre 
syndrome, 
nystagmus 
optic atrophy, 
corneal opacity 
torsades de 
pointes, 
atrioventricular 
block complete, 
bundle branch 
block, nodal 
rhythm 
brain oedema, 
encephalopathy4, 
extrapyramidal 
disorder5, 
neuropathy 
peripheral, ataxia, 
hypoaesthesia, 
dysgeusia 
optic nerve 
disorder7, 
papilloedema8, 
oculogyric crisis, 
diplopia, scleritis, 
blepharitis 
hypoacusis, 
vertigo, tinnitus 
ventricular 
fibrillation, 
ventricular 
extrasystoles, 
ventricular 
tachycardia, 
electrocardiogram 
QT prolonged, 
supraventricular 
tachycardia 
thrombophlebitis, 
lymphangitis 
peritonitis, 
pancreatitis, 
swollen tongue, 
duodenitis, 
gastroenteritis, 
glossitis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
Organ Class 
Very common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
liver function 
test abnormal 
rash 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders  
jaundice, jaundice 
cholestatic, 
hepatitis10 
dermatitis 
exfoliative, 
alopecia, rash 
maculo-papular, 
pruritus, erythema, 
phototoxicity** 
hepatic failure, 
hepatomegaly, 
cholecystitis, 
cholelithiasis 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome8, 
purpura, urticaria, 
dermatitis allergic, 
rash papular, rash 
macular, eczema 
toxic epidermal 
necrolysis8, 
drug reaction 
with 
eosinophilia 
and systemic 
symptoms 
(DRESS)8, 
angioedema, 
actinic 
keratosis*, 
pseudoporphyri
a, erythema 
multiforme, 
psoriasis, drug 
eruption 
Frequenc
y 
not 
known 
(cannot be 
estimated 
from 
available 
data) 
cutaneous 
lupus 
erythemato
sus*, 
ephelides*
, lentigo* 
Musculoskele
tal and 
connective 
tissue 
disorders  
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders  
General 
disorders and 
administratio
n site 
conditions  
Investigations 
pyrexia 
back pain 
arthritis, 
periostitis*,** 
renal failure acute, 
haematuria 
chest pain, face 
oedema11, 
asthenia, chills 
blood creatinine 
increased 
renal tubular 
necrosis, 
proteinuria, 
nephritis 
infusion site 
reaction, influenza 
like illness 
blood urea 
increased, blood 
cholesterol 
increased 
*ADR identified post-marketing 
**Frequency category is based on an observational study utilising real-world data from secondary data sources in 
Sweden 
1 Includes febrile neutropenia and neutropenia. 
2 Includes immune thrombocytopenic purpura. 
3 Includes nuchal rigidity and tetany. 
4 Includes hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy and metabolic encephalopathy. 
5 Includes akathisia and parkinsonism. 
6 See “Visual impairments” paragraph in section 4.8. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 Prolonged optic neuritis has been reported post-marketing. See section 4.4. 
8 See section 4.4. 
9 Includes dyspnoea and dyspnoea exertional. 
10 Includes drug-induced liver injury, hepatitis toxic, hepatocellular injury and hepatotoxicity. 
11 Includes periorbital oedema, lip oedema, and oedema mouth. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Visual impairments 
In clinical trials, visual impairments (including blurred vision, photophobia, chloropsia, chromatopsia, colour 
blindness, cyanopsia, eye disorder, halo vision, night blindness, oscillopsia, photopsia, scintillating scotoma, 
visual acuity reduced, visual brightness, visual field defect, vitreous floaters, and xanthopsia) with 
voriconazole were very common. These visual impairments were transient and fully reversible, with the 
majority spontaneously resolving within 60 minutes and no clinically significant long-term visual effects 
were observed. There was evidence of attenuation with repeated doses of voriconazole. The visual 
impairments were generally mild, rarely resulted in discontinuation and were not associated with long-term 
sequelae. Visual impairments may be associated with higher plasma concentrations and/or doses. 
The mechanism of action is unknown, although the site of action is most likely to be within the retina. In a 
study in healthy volunteers investigating the impact of voriconazole on retinal function, voriconazole caused 
a decrease in the electroretinogram (ERG) waveform amplitude. The ERG measures electrical currents in the 
retina. The ERG changes did not progress over 29 days of treatment and were fully reversible on withdrawal 
of voriconazole. 
There have been post-marketing reports of prolonged visual adverse events (see section 4.4). 
Dermatological reactions  
Dermatological reactions were very common in patients treated with voriconazole in clinical trials, but these 
patients had serious underlying diseases and were receiving multiple concomitant medicinal products. The 
majority of rashes were of mild to moderate severity. Patients have developed severe cutaneous adverse 
reactions (SCARs), including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) (uncommon), toxic epidermal necrolysis 
(TEN) (rare), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) (rare) and erythema 
multiforme (rare) during treatment with VFEND (see section 4.4). 
If a patient develops a rash they should be monitored closely and VFEND discontinued if lesions progress. 
Photosensitivity reactions such as ephelides, lentigo and actinic keratosis have been reported, especially 
during long-term therapy (see section 4.4).  
There have been reports of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (including cutaneous SCC in situ, or 
Bowen’s disease) in patients treated with VFEND for long periods of time; the mechanism has not been 
established (see section 4.4). 
Liver function tests  
The overall incidence of transaminase increases >3 xULN (not necessarily comprising an adverse event) in 
the voriconazole clinical programme was 18.0% (319/1,768) in adults and 25.8% (73/283) in paediatric 
subjects who received voriconazole for pooled therapeutic and prophylaxis use. Liver function test 
abnormalities may be associated with higher plasma concentrations and/or doses. The majority of abnormal 
liver function tests either resolved during treatment without dose adjustment or following dose adjustment, 
including discontinuation of therapy.  
Voriconazole has been associated with cases of serious hepatic toxicity in patients with other serious 
underlying conditions. This includes cases of jaundice, hepatitis and hepatic failure leading to death (see 
section 4.4).  
Prophylaxis 
In an open-label, comparative, multicenter study comparing voriconazole and itraconazole as primary 
prophylaxis in adult and adolescent allogeneic HSCT recipients without prior proven or probable IFI, 
permanent discontinuation of voriconazole due to AEs was reported in 39.3% of subjects versus 39.6% of 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects in the itraconazole arm. Treatment-emergent hepatic AEs resulted in permanent discontinuation of 
study medication for 50 subjects (21.4%) treated with voriconazole and for 18 subjects (7.1%) treated with 
itraconazole.  
Paediatric population  
The safety of voriconazole was investigated in 288 paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years (169) and 12 to 
<18 years (119) who received voriconazole for prophylaxis (183) and therapeutic use (105) in clinical trials. 
The safety of voriconazole was also investigated in 158 additional paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years in 
compassionate use programs. Overall, the safety profile of voriconazole in paediatric population was similar 
to that in adults. However, a trend towards a higher frequency of liver enzyme elevations, reported as 
adverse events in clinical trials was observed in paediatric patients as compared to adults (14.2% 
transaminases increased in paediatrics compared to 5.3% in adults). Post-marketing data suggest there might 
be a higher occurrence of skin reactions (especially erythema) in the paediatric population compared to 
adults. In the 22 patients less than 2 years old who received voriconazole in a compassionate use programme, 
the following adverse reactions (for which a relationship to voriconazole could not be excluded) were 
reported: photosensitivity reaction (1), arrhythmia (1), pancreatitis (1), blood bilirubin increased (1), hepatic 
enzymes increased (1), rash (1) and papilloedema (1). There have been post-marketing reports of pancreatitis 
in paediatric patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
In clinical trials there were 3 cases of accidental overdose. All occurred in paediatric patients, who received 
up to five times the recommended intravenous dose of voriconazole. A single adverse reaction of 
photophobia of 10 minutes duration was reported.  
There is no known antidote to voriconazole.  
Voriconazole is haemodialysed with a clearance of 121 ml/min. In an overdose, haemodialysis may assist in 
the removal of voriconazole from the body.  
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code: J02A C03  
Mode of action 
Voriconazole is a triazole antifungal agent. The primary mode of action of voriconazole is the inhibition of 
fungal cytochrome P450-mediated 14 alpha-lanosterol demethylation, an essential step in fungal ergosterol 
biosynthesis. The accumulation of 14 alpha-methyl sterols correlates with the subsequent loss of ergosterol 
in the fungal cell membrane and may be responsible for the antifungal activity of voriconazole. Voriconazole 
has been shown to be more selective for fungal cytochrome P-450 enzymes than for various mammalian 
cytochrome P-450 enzyme systems. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
In 10 therapeutic studies, the median for the average and maximum plasma concentrations in individual 
subjects across the studies was 2425 ng/ml (inter-quartile range 1193 to 4380 ng/ml) and 3742 ng/ml 
(inter-quartile range 2027 to 6302 ng/ml), respectively. A positive association between mean, maximum or 
minimum plasma voriconazole concentration and efficacy in therapeutic studies was not found and this 
relationship has not been explored in prophylaxis studies.  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic-Pharmacodynamic analyses of clinical trial data identified positive associations between 
plasma voriconazole concentrations and both liver function test abnormalities and visual disturbances. Dose 
adjustments in prophylaxis studies have not been explored. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
In vitro, voriconazole displays broad-spectrum antifungal activity with antifungal potency against Candida 
species (including fluconazole-resistant C. krusei and resistant strains of C. glabrata and C. albicans) and 
fungicidal activity against all Aspergillus species tested. In addition voriconazole shows in vitro fungicidal 
activity against emerging fungal pathogens, including those such as Scedosporium or Fusarium which have 
limited susceptibility to existing antifungal agents. 
Clinical efficacy defined as partial or complete response, has been demonstrated for Aspergillus spp. 
including A. flavus, A. fumigatus, A. terreus, A. niger, A. nidulans; Candida spp., including C. albicans, C. 
glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis; and limited numbers of C. dubliniensis,C. inconspicua, 
and C. guilliermondii, Scedosporium spp., including S. apiospermum, S. prolificans; and Fusarium spp. 
Other treated fungal infections (often with either partial or complete response) included isolated cases of 
Alternaria spp., Blastomyces dermatitidis, Blastoschizomyces capitatus, Cladosporium spp., Coccidioides 
immitis, Conidiobolus coronatus, Cryptococcus neoformans, Exserohilum rostratum, Exophiala spinifera, 
Fonsecaea pedrosoi, Madurella mycetomatis, Paecilomyces lilacinus, Penicillium spp. including P. 
marneffei, Phialophora richardsiae, Scopulariopsis brevicaulis and Trichosporon spp. including T. beigelii 
infections. 
In vitro activity against clinical isolates has been observed for Acremonium spp., Alternaria spp., Bipolaris 
spp., Cladophialophora spp., and Histoplasma capsulatum, with most strains being inhibited by 
concentrations of voriconazole in the range 0.05 to 2 µg/ml. 
In vitro activity against the following pathogens has been shown, but the clinical significance is unknown: 
Curvularia spp. and Sporothrix spp.  
Breakpoints 
Specimens for fungal culture and other relevant laboratory studies (serology, histopathology) should be 
obtained prior to therapy to isolate and identify causative organisms. Therapy may be instituted before the 
results of the cultures and other laboratory studies are known; however, once these results become available, 
anti-infective therapy should be adjusted accordingly.  
The species most frequently involved in causing human infections include C. albicans, C. parapsilosis, C. 
tropicalis, C. glabrata and C. krusei, all of which usually exhibit minimal inhibitory concentration (MICs) of 
less than 1 mg/L for voriconazole.  
However, the in vitro activity of voriconazole against Candida species is not uniform. Specifically, for C. 
glabrata, the MICs of voriconazole for fluconazole-resistant isolates are proportionally higher than are those 
of fluconazole-susceptible isolates. Therefore, every attempt should be made to identify Candida to species 
level. If antifungal susceptibility testing is available, the MIC results may be interpreted using breakpoint 
criteria established by European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST). 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUCAST Breakpoints 
Candida and Aspergillus species 
Candida albicans1 
Candida dubliniensis1 
Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) 
breakpoint (mg/L) 
≤S (Susceptible) 
0.06 
0.06 
>R (Resistant) 
0.25 
0.25 
IE 
IE 
0.25 
0.25 
IE 
IE 
1 
1 
IE5 
IE5 
IE5 
IE 
Insufficient evidence (IE) 
IE 
0.125 
0.125 
IE 
IE 
1 
1 
IE5 
IE5 
IE5 
IE 
Candida glabrata 
Candida krusei 
Candida parapsilosis1 
Candida tropicalis1 
Candida guilliermondii2 
Non-species related breakpoints for Candida3 
Aspergillus fumigatus4 
Aspergillus nidulans4 
Aspergillus flavus  
Aspergillus niger 
Aspergillus terreus 
Non-species related breakpoints6 
1 Strains with MIC values above the Susceptible/Intermediate (S/I) breakpoint are rare or not yet reported. 
The identification and antifungal susceptibility tests on any such isolate must be repeated and if the result 
is confirmed the isolate sent to a reference laboratory. Until there is evidence regarding clinical response 
for confirmed isolates with MIC above the current resistant breakpoint they should be reported resistant. A 
clinical response of 76% was achieved in infections caused by the species listed below when MICs were 
lower than or equal to the epidemiological cut-offs. Therefore, wild type populations of C. albicans, C. 
dubliniensis, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis are considered susceptible. 
2 The epidemiological cut-off values (ECOFFs) for these species are in general higher than for C. 
albicans. 
3 Non-species related breakpoints have been determined mainly on the basis of PK/PD data and are 
independent of MIC distributions of specific Candida species. They are for use only for organisms that do 
not have specific breakpoints. 
4 Area of technical uncertainty (ATU) is 2. Report as R with the following comment: "In some clinical 
situations (non-invasive infections forms) voriconazole can be used provided sufficient exposure is 
ensured". 
5 The ECOFFs for these species are in general one two-fold dilution higher than for A. fumigatus. 
6 Non-species related breakpoints have not been determined. 
Clinical experience  
Successful outcome in this section is defined as complete or partial response.  
Aspergillus infections – efficacy in aspergillosis patients with poor prognosis  
Voriconazole has in vitro fungicidal activity against Aspergillus spp. The efficacy and survival benefit of 
voriconazole versus conventional amphotericin B in the primary treatment of acute invasive aspergillosis 
was demonstrated in an open, randomised, multicentre study in 277 immunocompromised patients treated 
for 12 weeks. Voriconazole was administered intravenously with a loading dose of 6 mg/kg every 12 hours 
for the first 24 hours followed by a maintenance dose of 4 mg/kg every 12 hours for a minimum of 7 days. 
Therapy could then be switched to the oral formulation at a dose of 200 mg every 12 hours. Median duration 
of IV voriconazole therapy was 10 days (range 2-85 days). After IV voriconazole therapy, the median 
duration of oral voriconazole therapy was 76 days (range 2-232 days). 
A satisfactory global response (complete or partial resolution of all attributable symptoms, signs, 
radiographic/bronchoscopic abnormalities present at baseline) was seen in 53% of voriconazole-treated 
patients compared to 31% of patients treated with comparator. The 84-day survival rate for voriconazole was 
statistically significantly higher than that for the comparator and a clinically and statistically significant 
benefit was shown in favour of voriconazole for both time to death and time to discontinuation due to 
toxicity.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
This study confirmed findings from an earlier, prospectively designed study where there was a positive 
outcome in subjects with risk factors for a poor prognosis, including graft versus host disease, and, in 
particular, cerebral infections (normally associated with almost 100% mortality).  
The studies included cerebral, sinus, pulmonary and disseminated aspergillosis in patients with bone marrow 
and solid organ transplants, haematological malignancies, cancer and AIDS.  
Candidaemia in non-neutropenic patients  
The efficacy of voriconazole compared to the regimen of amphotericin B followed by fluconazole in the 
primary treatment of candidaemia was demonstrated in an open, comparative study. Three hundred and 
seventy non-neutropenic patients (above 12 years of age) with documented candidaemia were included in the 
study, of whom 248 were treated with voriconazole. Nine subjects in the voriconazole group and 5 in the 
amphotericin B followed by fluconazole group also had mycologically proven infection in deep tissue. 
Patients with renal failure were excluded from this study. The median treatment duration was 15 days in both 
treatment arms. In the primary analysis, successful response as assessed by a Data Review Committee 
(DRC) blinded to study medicinal product was defined as resolution/improvement in all clinical signs and 
symptoms of infection with eradication of Candida from blood and infected deep tissue sites 12 weeks after 
the end of therapy (EOT). Patients who did not have an assessment 12 weeks after EOT were counted as 
failures. In this analysis a successful response was seen in 41% of patients in both treatment arms. 
In a secondary analysis, which utilised DRC assessments at the latest evaluable time point (EOT, or 2, 6, or 
12 weeks after EOT) voriconazole and the regimen of amphotericin B followed by fluconazole had 
successful response rates of 65% and 71%, respectively.  
The Investigator’s assessment of successful outcome at each of these time points is shown in the following 
table.  
Timepoint  
EOT  
2 weeks after EOT  
6 weeks after EOT  
12 weeks after EOT  
Voriconazole  
(N=248) 
178 (72%)  
125 (50%) 
104 (42%) 
104 (42%) 
Amphotericin B → fluconazole  
(N=122) 
88 (72%)  
62 (51%) 
55 (45%) 
51 (42%) 
Serious refractory Candida infections  
The study comprised 55 patients with serious refractory systemic Candida infections (including 
candidaemia, disseminated and other invasive candidiasis) where prior antifungal treatment, particularly with 
fluconazole, had been ineffective. Successful response was seen in 24 patients (15 complete, 9 partial 
responses). In fluconazole-resistant non-albicans species, a successful outcome was seen in 3/3 C. krusei 
(complete responses) and 6/8 C. glabrata (5 complete, 1 partial response) infections. The clinical efficacy 
data were supported by limited susceptibility data.  
Scedosporium and Fusarium infections  
Voriconazole was shown to be effective against the following rare fungal pathogens:  
Scedosporium spp.: Successful response to voriconazole therapy was seen in 16 (6 complete, 10 partial 
responses) of 28 patients with S. apiospermum and in 2 (both partial responses) of 7 patients with S. 
prolificans infection. In addition, a successful response was seen in 1 of 3 patients with infections caused by 
more than one organism including Scedosporium spp.  
Fusarium spp.: Seven (3 complete, 4 partial responses) of 17 patients were successfully treated with 
voriconazole. Of these 7 patients, 3 had eye, 1 had sinus, and 3 had disseminated infection. Four additional 
patients with fusariosis had an infection caused by several organisms; 2 of them had a successful outcome.  
The majority of patients receiving voriconazole treatment of the above mentioned rare infections were 
intolerant of, or refractory to, prior antifungal therapy.  
26 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections – Efficacy in HSCT recipients without prior proven or 
probable IFI 
Voriconazole was compared to itraconazole as primary prophylaxis in an open-label, comparative, 
multicenter study of adult and adolescent allogeneic HSCT recipients without prior proven or probable IFI. 
Success was defined as the ability to continue study drug prophylaxis for 100 days after HSCT (without 
stopping for >14 days) and survival with no proven or probable IFI for 180 days after HSCT. The modified 
intent-to-treat (MITT) group included 465 allogeneic HSCT recipients with 45% of patients having AML. 
From all patients 58% were subject to myeloablative conditions regimens. Prophylaxis with study drug was 
started immediately after HSCT: 224 received voriconazole and 241 received itraconazole. The median 
duration of study drug prophylaxis was 96 days for voriconazole and 68 days for itraconazole in the MITT 
group. 
Success rates and other secondary endpoints are presented in the table below: 
Study Endpoints 
Voriconazole 
N=224 
Itraconazole 
N=241 
Difference in 
proportions and the 
95% confidence 
interval (CI)  
P-Value 
Success at day 180* 
Success at day 100  
Completed at least 100 days of 
study drug prophylaxis  
Survived to day 180 
Developed proven or probable 
IFI to day 180 
Developed proven or probable 
IFI to day 100 
Developed proven or probable 
IFI while on study drug 
109 (48.7%) 
121 (54.0%) 
120 (53.6%) 
80 (33.2%) 
96 (39.8%) 
94 (39.0%) 
16.4% (7.7%, 25.1%)**  0.0002** 
15.4% (6.6%, 24.2%)**  0.0006** 
0.0015 
14.6% (5.6%, 23.5%) 
184 (82.1%) 
3 (1.3%) 
197 (81.7%) 
5 (2.1%) 
0.4% (-6.6%, 7.4%) 
-0.7% (-3.1%, 1.6%) 
0.9107 
0.5390 
2 (0.9%) 
4 (1.7%) 
-0.8% (-2.8%, 1.3%) 
0.4589 
0 
3 (1.2%) 
-1.2% (-2.6%, 0.2%) 
0.0813 
* Primary endpoint of the study 
** Difference in proportions, 95% CI and p-values obtained after adjustment for randomization 
The breakthrough IFI rate to Day 180 and the primary endpoint of the study, which is Success at Day 180, 
for patients with AML and myeloablative conditioning regimens respectively, is presented in the table 
below: 
AML 
Study endpoints 
Voriconazole  
(N=98)  
Itraconazole 
(N=109) 
Difference in proportions and 
the 95% confidence interval (CI) 
Breakthrough IFI – Day 180 
Success at Day 180* 
1 (1.0%) 
55 (56.1%) 
 2 (1.8%) 
45 (41.3%) 
-0.8% (-4.0%, 2.4%) ** 
14.7% (1.7%, 27.7%)*** 
*   Primary endpoint of study 
** Using a margin of 5%, non inferiority is demonstrated  
***Difference in proportions, 95% CI obtained after adjustment for randomization 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Myeloablative conditioning regimens 
Study endpoints 
Voriconazole  
(N=125)  
Itraconazole 
(N=143) 
Difference in proportions and 
the 95% confidence interval (CI) 
Breakthrough IFI – Day 180 
Success at Day 180* 
2 (1.6%) 
70 (56.0%) 
3 (2.1%)  
53 (37.1%) 
-0.5% (-3.7%, 2.7%) ** 
20.1% (8.5%, 31.7%)*** 
*   Primary endpoint of study 
** Using a margin of 5%, non inferiority is demonstrated  
*** Difference in proportions, 95% CI obtained after adjustment for randomization  
Secondary Prophylaxis of IFI – Efficacy in HSCT recipients with prior proven or probable IFI 
Voriconazole was investigated as secondary prophylaxis in an open-label, non-comparative, multicenter 
study of adult allogeneic HSCT recipients with prior proven or probable IFI. The primary endpoint was the 
rate of occurrence of proven and probable IFI during the first year after HSCT. The MITT group included 
40 patients with prior IFI, including 31 with aspergillosis, 5 with candidiasis, and 4 with other IFI. The 
median duration of study drug prophylaxis was 95.5 days in the MITT group. 
Proven or probable IFIs developed in 7.5% (3/40) of patients during the first year after HSCT, including one 
candidemia, one scedosporiosis (both relapses of prior IFI), and one zygomycosis. The survival rate at 
Day 180 was 80.0% (32/40) and at 1 year was 70.0% (28/40). 
Duration of treatment 
In clinical trials, 705 patients received voriconazole therapy for greater than 12 weeks, with 164 patients 
receiving voriconazole for over 6 months.  
Paediatric population 
Fifty-three paediatric patients aged 2 to <18 years were treated with voriconazole in two prospective, 
open-label, non-comparative, multi-center clinical trials. One study enrolled 31 patients with possible, 
proven or probable invasive aspergillosis (IA), of whom 14 patients had proven or probable IA and were 
included in the MITT efficacy analyses. The second study enrolled 22 patients with invasive candidiasis 
including candidaemia (ICC), and esophageal candidiasis (EC) requiring either primary or salvage therapy, 
of whom 17 were included in the MITT efficacy analyses. For patients with IA the overall rates of global 
response at 6 weeks were 64.3% (9/14), the global response rate was 40% (2/5) for patients 2 to <12 years 
and 77.8% (7/9) for patients 12 to <18 years of age. For patients with ICC the global response rate at EOT 
was 85.7% (6/7) and for patients with EC the global response rate at EOT was 70% (7/10). The overall rate 
of response (ICC and EC combined) was 88.9% (8/9) for 2 to <12 years old and 62.5% (5/8) for 12 to <18 
years old. 
Clinical studies examining QTc interval  
A placebo-controlled, randomized, single-dose, crossover study to evaluate the effect on the QTc interval of 
healthy volunteers was conducted with three oral doses of voriconazole and ketoconazole. The 
placebo-adjusted mean maximum increases in QTc from baseline after 800, 1200 and 1600 mg of 
voriconazole were 5.1, 4.8, and 8.2 msec, respectively and 7.0 msec for ketoconazole 800 mg. No subject in 
any group had an increase in QTc of ≥ 60 msec from baseline. No subject experienced an interval exceeding 
the potentially clinically-relevant threshold of 500 msec.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
General pharmacokinetic characteristics  
The pharmacokinetics of voriconazole have been characterised in healthy subjects, special populations and 
patients. During oral administration of 200 mg or 300 mg twice daily for 14 days in patients at risk of 
aspergillosis (mainly patients with malignant neoplasms of lymphatic or haematopoietic tissue), the observed 
pharmacokinetic characteristics of rapid and consistent absorption, accumulation and non-linear 
pharmacokinetics were in agreement with those observed in healthy subjects.  
28 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetics of voriconazole are non-linear due to saturation of its metabolism. Greater than 
proportional increase in exposure is observed with increasing dose. It is estimated that, on average, 
increasing the oral dose from 200 mg twice daily to 300 mg twice daily leads to a 2.5-fold increase in 
exposure (AUCτ). The oral maintenance dose of 200 mg (or 100 mg for patients less than 40 kg) achieves a 
voriconazole exposure similar to 3 mg/kg IV. A 300 mg (or 150 mg for patients less than 40 kg) oral 
maintenance dose achieves an exposure similar to 4 mg/kg IV. When the recommended intravenous or oral 
loading dose regimens are administered, plasma concentrations close to steady state are achieved within the 
first 24 hours of dosing. Without the loading dose, accumulation occurs during twice daily multiple dosing 
with steady-state plasma voriconazole concentrations being achieved by Day 6 in the majority of subjects.  
Absorption  
Voriconazole is rapidly and almost completely absorbed following oral administration, with maximum 
plasma concentrations (Cmax) achieved 1-2 hours after dosing. The absolute bioavailability of voriconazole 
after oral administration is estimated to be 96%. When multiple doses of voriconazole are administered with 
high fat meals, Cmax and AUCτ are reduced by 34% and 24%, respectively. The absorption of voriconazole is 
not affected by changes in gastric pH.  
Distribution  
The volume of distribution at steady state for voriconazole is estimated to be 4.6 L/kg, suggesting extensive 
distribution into tissues. Plasma protein binding is estimated to be 58%. Cerebrospinal fluid samples from 
eight patients in a compassionate programme showed detectable voriconazole concentrations in all patients.  
Biotransformation  
In vitro studies showed that voriconazole is metabolised by the hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 
CYP2C19, CYP2C9 and CYP3A4.  
The inter-individual variability of voriconazole pharmacokinetics is high.  
In vivo studies indicated that CYP2C19 is significantly involved in the metabolism of voriconazole. This 
enzyme exhibits genetic polymorphism. For example, 15-20% of Asian populations may be expected to be 
poor metabolisers. For Caucasians and Blacks the prevalence of poor metabolisers is 3-5%. Studies 
conducted in Caucasian and Japanese healthy subjects have shown that poor metabolisers have, on average, 
4-fold higher voriconazole exposure (AUCτ) than their homozygous extensive metaboliser counterparts. 
Subjects who are heterozygous extensive metabolisers have on average 2-fold higher voriconazole exposure 
than their homozygous extensive metaboliser counterparts. 
The major metabolite of voriconazole is the N-oxide, which accounts for 72% of the circulating radiolabelled 
metabolites in plasma. This metabolite has minimal antifungal activity and does not contribute to the overall 
efficacy of voriconazole.  
Elimination 
Voriconazole is eliminated via hepatic metabolism with less than 2% of the dose excreted unchanged in the 
urine.  
After administration of a radiolabelled dose of voriconazole, approximately 80% of the radioactivity is 
recovered in the urine after multiple intravenous dosing and 83% in the urine after multiple oral dosing. The 
majority (>94%) of the total radioactivity is excreted in the first 96 hours after both oral and intravenous 
dosing.  
The terminal half-life of voriconazole depends on dose and is approximately 6 hours at 200 mg (orally). 
Because of non-linear pharmacokinetics, the terminal half-life is not useful in the prediction of the 
accumulation or elimination of voriconazole.  
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups  
Gender  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
In an oral multiple -dose study, Cmax and AUCτ for healthy young females were 83% and 113% higher, 
respectively, than in healthy young males (18-45 years). In the same study, no significant differences in Cmax 
and AUCτ were observed between healthy elderly males and healthy elderly females (≥65 years).  
In the clinical programme, no dosage adjustment was made on the basis of gender. The safety profile and 
plasma concentrations observed in male and female patients were similar. Therefore, no dosage adjustment 
based on gender is necessary.  
Elderly 
In an oral multiple-dose study Cmax and AUCτ in healthy elderly males (≥65 years) were 61% and 86% 
higher, respectively, than in healthy young males (18-45 years). No significant differences in Cmax and AUCτ 
were observed between healthy elderly females (≥ 65 years) and healthy young females (18-45 years).  
In the therapeutic studies no dosage adjustment was made on the basis of age. A relationship between plasma 
concentrations and age was observed. The safety profile of voriconazole in young and elderly patients was 
similar and, therefore, no dosage adjustment is necessary for the elderly (see section 4.2).  
Paediatric population 
The recommended doses in children and adolescent patients are based on a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis of data obtained from 112 immunocompromised paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years and 
26 immunocompromised adolescent patients aged 12 to <17 years. Multiple intravenous doses of 3, 4, 6, 7 
and 8 mg/kg twice daily and multiple oral doses (using the powder for oral suspension) of 4 mg/kg, 6 mg/kg, 
and 200 mg twice daily were evaluated in 3 paediatric pharmacokinetic studies. Intravenous loading doses of 
6 mg/kg IV twice daily on day 1 followed by 4 mg/kg intravenous dose twice daily and 300 mg oral tablets 
twice daily were evaluated in one adolescent pharmacokinetic study. Larger inter-subject variability was 
observed in paediatric patients compared to adults. 
A comparison of the paediatric and adult population pharmacokinetic data indicated that the predicted total 
exposure (AUC) in children following administration of a 9 mg/kg IV loading dose was comparable to that 
in adults following a 6 mg/kg IV loading dose. The predicted total exposures in children following IV 
maintenance doses of 4 and 8 mg/kg twice daily were comparable to those in adults following 3 and 4 mg/kg 
IV twice daily, respectively. The predicted total exposure in children following an oral maintenance dose of 
9 mg/kg (maximum of 350 mg) twice daily was comparable to that in adults following 200 mg oral twice 
daily. An 8 mg/kg intravenous dose will provide voriconazole exposure approximately 2-fold higher than a 
9 mg/kg oral dose. 
The higher intravenous maintenance dose in paediatric patients relative to adults reflects the higher 
elimination capacity in paediatric patients due to a greater liver mass to body mass ratio. Oral bioavailability 
may, however, be limited in paediatric patients with malabsorption and very low body weight for their age. 
In that case, intravenous voriconazole administration is recommended.  
Voriconazole exposures in the majority of adolescent patients were comparable to those in adults receiving 
the same dosing regimens. However, lower voriconazole exposure was observed in some young adolescents 
with low body weight compared to adults. It is likely that these subjects may metabolise voriconazole more 
similarly to children than to adults. Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis, 12- to 14-year-old 
adolescents weighing less than 50 kg should receive children’s doses (see section 4.2).  
Renal impairment 
In an oral single-dose (200 mg) study in subjects with normal renal function and mild (creatinine clearance 
41-60 ml/min) to severe (creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min) renal impairment, the pharmacokinetics of 
voriconazole were not significantly affected by renal impairment. The plasma protein binding of 
voriconazole was similar in subjects with different degrees of renal impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
Hepatic impairment  
After an oral single-dose (200 mg), AUC was 233% higher in subjects with mild to moderate hepatic 
cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A and B) compared with subjects with normal hepatic function. Protein binding of 
voriconazole was not affected by impaired hepatic function.  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an oral multiple-dose study, AUCτ was similar in subjects with moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh B) 
given a maintenance dose of 100 mg twice daily and subjects with normal hepatic function given 200 mg 
twice daily. No pharmacokinetic data are available for patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh C) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Repeated-dose toxicity studies with voriconazole indicated the liver to be the target organ. Hepatotoxicity 
occurred at plasma exposures similar to those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, in common with 
other antifungal agents. In rats, mice and dogs, voriconazole also induced minimal adrenal changes. 
Conventional studies of safety pharmacology, genotoxicity or carcinogenic potential did not reveal a special 
hazard for humans.  
In reproduction studies, voriconazole was shown to be teratogenic in rats and embryotoxic in rabbits at 
systemic exposures equal to those obtained in humans with therapeutic doses. In the pre- and post-natal 
development study in rats at exposures lower than those obtained in humans with therapeutic doses, 
voriconazole prolonged the duration of gestation and labour and produced dystocia with consequent maternal 
mortality and reduced perinatal survival of pups. The effects on parturition are probably mediated by 
species-specific mechanisms, involving reduction of oestradiol levels, and are consistent with those observed 
with other azole antifungal agents. Voriconazole administration induced no impairment of male or female 
fertility in rats at exposures similar to those obtained in humans at therapeutic doses. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1  List of excipients  
Tablet core  
Lactose monohydrate  
Pregelatinised starch 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Povidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coating 
Hypromellose 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Lactose monohydrate  
Glycerol triacetate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life  
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC / Aluminium blister in cartons of 2, 10, 14, 20, 28, 30, 50, 56 or 100 film-coated tablets. 
PVC / Aluminium/PVC/PVDC blister in cartons of 2, 10, 14, 20, 28, 30, 50, 56 or 100 film-coated tablets. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets  
EU/1/02/212/001-009 
EU/1/02/212/028-036 
VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/013-021 
EU/1/02/212/037-045 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 March 2002  
Date of latest renewal: 21 February 2012  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency. http://www.ema.europa.eu 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
VFEND 200 mg powder for solution for infusion  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each vial contains 200 mg of voriconazole.  
After reconstitution each ml contains 10 mg of voriconazole. Once reconstituted further dilution is required 
before administration. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each vial contains 221 mg sodium.  
Each vial contains 3,200 mg cyclodextrin. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Powder for solution for infusion: White lyophilised powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
VFEND, is a broad-spectrum, triazole antifungal agent and is indicated in adults and children aged 2 years 
and above as follows: 
Treatment of invasive aspergillosis. 
Treatment of candidaemia in non-neutropenic patients.  
Treatment of fluconazole-resistant serious invasive Candida infections (including C. krusei). 
Treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium spp. and Fusarium spp. 
VFEND should be administered primarily to patients with progressive, possibly life-threatening infections. 
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in high risk allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) 
recipients. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Posology 
Electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia and hypocalcaemia should be monitored 
and corrected, if necessary, prior to initiation and during voriconazole therapy (see section 4.4).  
It is recommended that VFEND is administered at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour over 1 to 3 hours.  
VFEND is also available as 50 mg and 200 mg film-coated tablets and 40 mg/ml powder for oral suspension.  
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment 
Adults  
Therapy must be initiated with the specified loading dose regimen of either intravenous or oral VFEND to 
achieve plasma concentrations on Day 1 that are close to steady state. On the basis of the high oral 
bioavailability (96%; see section 5.2), switching between intravenous and oral administration is appropriate 
when clinically indicated.  
Detailed information on dosage recommendations is provided in the following table:  
Intravenous  
Oral  
6 mg/kg every 12 hours 
Patients 40 kg and 
above* 
400 mg every 12 hours 
Patients less than 40 kg* 
200 mg every 12 hours 
4 mg/kg twice daily 
200 mg twice daily 
100 mg twice daily 
Loading dose regimen  
(first 24 hours)  
Maintenance dose 
(after first 24 hours)  
* This also applies to patients aged 15 years and older 
Duration of treatment 
Treatment duration should be as short as possible depending on the patient’s clinical and mycological 
response. Long term exposure to voriconazole greater than 180 days (6 months) requires careful assessment 
of the benefit-risk balance (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Dosage adjustment (Adults)  
If patient is unable to tolerate intravenous treatment at 4 mg/kg twice daily, reduce the dose to 3 mg/kg twice 
daily.  
If patient response to treatment is inadequate, the maintenance dose may be increased to 300 mg twice daily 
for oral administration. For patients less than 40 kg the oral dose may be increased to 150 mg twice daily. 
If patient is unable to tolerate treatment at a higher dose reduce the oral dose by 50 mg steps to the 200 mg 
twice daily (or 100 mg twice daily for patients less than 40 kg) maintenance dose. 
In case of use as prophylaxis, refer below. 
Children (2 to <12 years) and young adolescents with low body weight (12 to 14 years and <50 kg) 
Voriconazole should be dosed as children as these young adolescents may metabolise voriconazole more 
similarly to children than to adults. 
The recommended dosing regimen is as follows:  
Loading Dose Regimen 
(first 24 hours) 
Maintenance Dose 
(after first 24 hours) 
Intravenous  
9 mg/kg every 12 hours 
Oral 
Not recommended 
8 mg/kg twice daily  
9 mg/kg twice daily  
(a maximum dose of 350 mg twice 
daily) 
Note:  Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 112 immunocompromised paediatric patients aged 
2 to <12 years and 26 immunocompromised adolescents aged 12 to <17 years.  
It is recommended to initiate the therapy with intravenous regimen, and oral regimen should be considered 
only after there is a significant clinical improvement. It should be noted that an 8 mg/kg intravenous dose 
will provide voriconazole exposure approximately 2-fold higher than a 9 mg/kg oral dose.  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All other adolescents (12 to 14 years and ≥50 kg; 15 to 17 years regardless of body weight) 
Voriconazole should be dosed as adults. 
Dosage adjustment (Children [2 to <12 years] and young adolescents with low body weight [12 to 14 years 
and <50 kg]) 
If patient response to treatment is inadequate, the intravenous dose may be increased by 1 mg/kg steps. If 
patient is unable to tolerate treatment, reduce the intravenous dose by 1 mg/kg steps. 
Use in paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years with hepatic or renal insufficiency has not been studied (see 
sections 4.8 and 5.2).  
Prophylaxis in Adults and Children 
Prophylaxis should be initiated on the day of transplant and may be administered for up to 100 days. 
Prophylaxis should be as short as possible depending on the risk for developing invasive fungal infection 
(IFI) as defined by neutropenia or immunosuppression. It may only be continued up to 180 days after 
transplantation in case of continuing immunosuppression or graft versus host disease (GvHD) (see section 
5.1).  
Dosage  
The recommended dosing regimen for prophylaxis is the same as for treatment in the respective age groups. 
Please refer to the treatment tables above. 
Duration of prophylaxis 
The safety and efficacy of voriconazole use for longer than 180 days has not been adequately studied in 
clinical trials. 
Use of voriconazole in prophylaxis for greater than 180 days (6 months) requires careful assessment of the 
benefit-risk balance (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The following instructions apply to both Treatment and Prophylaxis 
Dosage adjustment 
For prophylaxis use, dose adjustments are not recommended in the case of lack of efficacy or 
treatment-related adverse events. In the case of treatment-related adverse events, discontinuation of 
voriconazole and use of alternative antifungal agents must be considered (see sections 4.4 and 4.8) 
Dosage adjustments in case of coadministration 
Rifabutin or phenytoin may be coadministered with voriconazole if the maintenance dose of voriconazole is 
increased to 5 mg/kg intravenously twice daily, see sections 4.4 and 4.5.  
Efavirenz may be coadministered with voriconazole if the maintenance dose of voriconazole is increased to 
400 mg every 12 hours and the efavirenz dose is reduced by 50%, i.e. to 300 mg once daily. When treatment 
with voriconazole is stopped, the initial dosage of efavirenz should be restored (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).  
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is necessary for elderly patients (see section 5.2).  
Renal impairment 
In patients with moderate to severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min), accumulation of the 
intravenous vehicle, SBECD, occurs. Oral voriconazole should be administered to these patients, unless an 
assessment of the risk benefit to the patient justifies the use of intravenous voriconazole. Serum creatinine 
levels should be closely monitored in these patients and, if increases occur, consideration should be given to 
changing to oral voriconazole therapy (see section 5.2).  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Voriconazole is haemodialysed with a clearance of 121 ml/min. A 4-hour haemodialysis session does not 
remove a sufficient amount of voriconazole to warrant dose adjustment.  
The intravenous vehicle, SBECD, is haemodialysed with a clearance of 55 ml/min.  
Hepatic impairment 
It is recommended that the standard loading dose regimens be used but that the maintenance dose be halved 
in patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A and B) receiving voriconazole (see 
section 5.2). 
Voriconazole has not been studied in patients with severe chronic hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh C).  
There is limited data on the safety of VFEND in patients with abnormal liver function tests (aspartate 
transaminase [AST], alanine transaminase [ALT], alkaline phosphatase [ALP], or total bilirubin >5 times the 
upper limit of normal). 
Voriconazole has been associated with elevations in liver function tests and clinical signs of liver damage, 
such as jaundice, and must only be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment if the benefit outweighs 
the potential risk. Patients with severe hepatic impairment must be carefully monitored for drug toxicity (see 
section 4.8).  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of VFEND in children below 2 years has not been established. Currently available 
data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology can be made.  
Method of administration 
VFEND requires reconstitution and dilution (see section 6.6) prior to administration as an intravenous 
infusion. Not for bolus injection.  
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Coadministration with CYP3A4 substrates, terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine or 
ivabradine since increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products can lead to QTc prolongation 
and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration with rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital and St John’s Wort since these medicinal 
products are likely to decrease plasma voriconazole concentrations significantly (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration of standard doses of voriconazole with efavirenz doses of 400 mg once daily or higher is 
contraindicated, because efavirenz significantly decreases plasma voriconazole concentrations in healthy 
subjects at these doses. Voriconazole also significantly increases efavirenz plasma concentrations (see 
section 4.5, for lower doses see section 4.4). 
Coadministration with high-dose ritonavir (400 mg and above twice daily) because ritonavir significantly 
decreases plasma voriconazole concentrations in healthy subjects at this dose (see section 4.5, for lower 
doses see section 4.4).  
Coadministration with ergot alkaloids (ergotamine, dihydroergotamine), which are CYP3A4 substrates, since 
increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products can lead to ergotism (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration with sirolimus since voriconazole is likely to increase plasma concentrations of sirolimus 
significantly (see section 4.5).  
36 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coadministration of voriconazole with naloxegol, a CYP3A4 substrate, since increased plasma 
concentrations of naloxegol can precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms (see section 4.5). 
Coadministration of voriconazole with tolvaptan since strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as voriconazole 
significantly increase plasma concentrations of tolvaptan (see section 4.5). 
Coadministration of voriconazole with lurasidone since significant increases in lurasidone exposure have the 
potential for serious adverse reactions (see section 4.5). 
Coadministration with venetoclax at initiation and during venetoclax dose titration phase since voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase plasma concentrations of venetoclax and increase risk of tumour lysis 
syndrome (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Hypersensitivity 
Caution should be used in prescribing VFEND to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles (see also 
section 4.8).  
Duration of treatment 
The duration of treatment with the intravenous formulation should be no longer than 6 months (see section 
5.3). 
Cardiovascular 
Voriconazole has been associated with QTc interval prolongation. There have been rare cases of torsades de 
pointes in patients taking voriconazole who had risk factors, such as history of cardiotoxic chemotherapy, 
cardiomyopathy, hypokalaemia and concomitant medicinal products that may have been contributory. 
Voriconazole should be administered with caution to patients with potentially proarrhythmic conditions, 
such as:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation.  
Cardiomyopathy, in particular when heart failure is present.  
Sinus bradycardia.  
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias.  
Concomitant medicinal product that is known to prolong QTc interval. Electrolyte disturbances such 
as hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia and hypocalcaemia should be monitored and corrected, if 
necessary, prior to initiation and during voriconazole therapy (see section 4.2). A study has been 
conducted in healthy volunteers which examined the effect on QTc interval of single doses of 
voriconazole up to 4 times the usual daily dose. No subject experienced an interval exceeding the 
potentially clinically-relevant threshold of 500 msec (see section 5.1).  
Infusion-related reactions 
Infusion-related reactions, predominantly flushing and nausea, have been observed during administration of 
the intravenous formulation of voriconazole. Depending on the severity of symptoms, consideration should 
be given to stopping treatment (see section 4.8).  
Hepatic toxicity 
In clinical trials, there have been cases of serious hepatic reactions during treatment with voriconazole 
(including clinical hepatitis, cholestasis and fulminant hepatic failure, including fatalities). Instances of 
hepatic reactions were noted to occur primarily in patients with serious underlying medical conditions 
(predominantly haematological malignancy). Transient hepatic reactions, including hepatitis and jaundice, 
have occurred among patients with no other identifiable risk factors. Liver dysfunction has usually been 
reversible on discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.8).  
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring of hepatic function 
Patients receiving VFEND must be carefully monitored for hepatic toxicity. Clinical management should 
include laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (specifically AST and ALT) at the initiation of treatment 
with VFEND and at least weekly for the first month of treatment. Treatment duration should be as short as 
possible; however, if based on the benefit-risk assessment the treatment is continued (see section 4.2), 
monitoring frequency can be reduced to monthly if there are no changes in the liver function tests.  
If the liver function tests become markedly elevated, VFEND should be discontinued, unless the medical 
judgment of the risk-benefit of the treatment for the patient justifies continued use.  
Monitoring of hepatic function should be carried out in both children and adults. 
Serious dermatological adverse reactions 
•  Phototoxicity 
In addition VFEND has been associated with phototoxicity including reactions such as ephelides, 
lentigo, actinic keratosis and pseudoporphyria. There is a potential increased risk of skin 
reactions/toxicity with concomitant use of photosensitising agents (e.g., methotrexate, etc). It is 
recommended that all patients, including children, avoid exposure to direct sunlight during VFEND 
treatment and use measures such as protective clothing and sunscreen with high sun protection factor 
(SPF). 
•  Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (SCC) 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (including cutaneous SCC in situ, or Bowen’s disease) has 
been reported in patients, some of whom have reported prior phototoxic reactions. If phototoxic 
reactions occur multidisciplinary advice should be sought, VFEND discontinuation and use of 
alternative antifungal agents should be considered and the patient should be referred to a 
dermatologist. If VFEND is continued, however, dermatologic evaluation should be performed on a 
systematic and regular basis, to allow early detection and management of premalignant lesions. 
VFEND should be discontinued if premalignant skin lesions or squamous cell carcinoma are 
identified (see below the section under Long-term treatment). 
•  Severe cutaneous adverse reactions 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), 
which can be life-threatening or fatal, have been reported with the use of voriconazole. If a patient 
develops a rash he should be monitored closely and VFEND discontinued if lesions progress. 
Adrenal events 
Reversible cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported in patients receiving azoles, including: 
voriconazole. Adrenal insufficiency has been reported in patients receiving azoles with or without 
concomitant corticosteroids. In patients receiving azoles without corticosteroids, adrenal insufficiency is 
related to direct inhibition of steroidogenesis by azoles. In patients taking corticosteroids, voriconazole 
associated CYP3A4 inhibition of their metabolism may lead to corticosteroid excess and adrenal suppression 
(see section 4.5). Cushing’s syndrome with and without subsequent adrenal insufficiency has also been 
reported in patients receiving voriconazole concomitantly with corticosteroids. 
Patients on long-term treatment with voriconazole and corticosteroids (including inhaled corticosteroids e.g., 
budesonide and intranasal corticosteroids) should be carefully monitored for adrenal cortex dysfunction both 
during treatment and when voriconazole is discontinued (see section 4.5). Patients should be instructed to 
seek immediate medical care if they develop signs and symptoms of Cushing’s syndrome or adrenal 
insufficiency. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long-term treatment 
Long term exposure (treatment or prophylaxis) greater than 180 days (6 months) requires careful assessment 
of the benefit-risk balance and physicians should therefore consider the need to limit the exposure to VFEND 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (SCC) (including cutaneous SCC in situ, or Bowen’s disease) has been 
reported in relation with long-term VFEND treatment (see section 4.8). 
Non-infectious periostitis with elevated fluoride and alkaline phosphatase levels has been reported in 
transplant patients. If a patient develops skeletal pain and radiologic findings compatible with periostitis 
VFEND discontinuation should be considered after multidisciplinary advice (see section 4.8). 
Visual adverse reactions 
There have been reports of prolonged visual adverse reactions, including blurred vision, optic neuritis and 
papilloedema (see section 4.8). 
Renal adverse reactions 
Acute renal failure has been observed in severely ill patients undergoing treatment with VFEND. Patients 
being treated with voriconazole are likely to be treated concomitantly with nephrotoxic medicinal products 
and have concurrent conditions that may result in decreased renal function (see section 4.8).  
Monitoring of renal function 
Patients should be monitored for the development of abnormal renal function. This should include laboratory 
evaluation, particularly serum creatinine.  
Monitoring of pancreatic function 
Patients, especially children, with risk factors for acute pancreatitis (e.g., recent chemotherapy, 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation [HSCT]), should be monitored closely during VFEND treatment. 
Monitoring of serum amylase or lipase may be considered in this clinical situation.  
Paediatric population  
Safety and effectiveness in paediatric subjects below the age of two years has not been established (see 
sections 4.8 and 5.1). Voriconazole is indicated for paediatric patients aged two years or older. A higher 
frequency of liver enzyme elevations was observed in the paediatric population (see section 4.8). Hepatic 
function should be monitored in both children and adults. Oral bioavailability may be limited in paediatric 
patients aged 2 to <12 years with malabsorption and very low body weight for age. In that case, intravenous 
voriconazole administration is recommended.  
•  Serious dermatological adverse reactions (including SCC) 
The frequency of phototoxicity reactions is higher in the paediatric population. As an evolution 
towards SCC has been reported, stringent measures for the photoprotection are warranted in this 
population of patients. In children experiencing photoaging injuries such as lentigines or ephelides, 
sun avoidance and dermatologic follow-up are recommended even after treatment discontinuation. 
Prophylaxis 
In case of treatment-related adverse events (hepatotoxicity, severe skin reactions including phototoxicity and 
SCC, severe or prolonged visual disorders and periostitis), discontinuation of voriconazole and use of 
alternative antifungal agents must be considered. 
Phenytoin (CYP2C9 substrate and potent CYP450 inducer) 
Careful monitoring of phenytoin levels is recommended when phenytoin is coadministered with 
voriconazole. Concomitant use of voriconazole and phenytoin should be avoided unless the benefit 
outweighs the risk (see section 4.5).  
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efavirenz (CYP450 inducer; CYP3A4 inhibitor and substrate) 
When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz the dose of voriconazole should be increased to 400 mg 
every 12 hours and the dose of efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours (see sections 4.2, 4.3 
and 4.5).  
Glasdegib (CYP3A4 substrate)  
Coadministration of voriconazole is expected to increase glasdegib plasma concentrations and increase the 
risk of QTc prolongation (see section 4.5). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, frequent ECG monitoring 
is recommended. 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (CYP3A4 substrate)  
Coadministration of voriconazole with tyrosine kinase inhibitors metabolised by CYP3A4 is expected to 
increase tyrosine kinase inhibitor plasma concentrations and the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use 
cannot be avoided, dose reduction of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor and close clinical monitoring is 
recommended (see section 4.5). 
Rifabutin (potent CYP450 inducer) 
Careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions to rifabutin (e.g., uveitis) is recommended 
when rifabutin is coadministered with voriconazole. Concomitant use of voriconazole and rifabutin should 
be avoided unless the benefit outweighs the risk (see section 4.5).  
Ritonavir (potent CYP450 inducer; CYP3A4 inhibitor and substrate) 
Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg twice daily) should be avoided unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole (see sections 4.3 and 4.5).  
Everolimus (CYP3A4 substrate, P-gp substrate) 
Coadministration of voriconazole with everolimus is not recommended because voriconazole is expected to 
significantly increase everolimus concentrations. Currently there are insufficient data to allow dosing 
recommendations in this situation (see section 4.5). 
Methadone (CYP3A4 substrate) 
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to methadone, including QTc prolongation, is 
recommended when coadministered with voriconazole since methadone levels increased following 
coadministration of voriconazole. Dose reduction of methadone may be needed (see section 4.5).  
Short-acting opiates (CYP3A4 substrate) 
Reduction in the dose of alfentanil, fentanyl and other short-acting opiates similar in structure to alfentanil 
and metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g., sufentanil) should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole 
(see section 4.5). As the half-life of alfentanil is prolonged in a 4-fold manner when alfentanil is 
coadministered with voriconazole, and in an independent published study concomitant use of voriconazole 
with fentanyl resulted in an increase in the mean AUC0-∞ of fentanyl, frequent monitoring for 
opiate-associated adverse reactions (including a longer respiratory monitoring period) may be necessary. 
Long-acting opiates (CYP3A4 substrate) 
Reduction in the dose of oxycodone and other long-acting opiates metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g., 
hydrocodone) should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole. Frequent monitoring for 
opiate-associated adverse reactions may be necessary (see section 4.5). 
Fluconazole (CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 inhibitor) 
Coadministration of oral voriconazole and oral fluconazole resulted in a significant increase in Cmax and 
AUCτ of voriconazole in healthy subjects. The reduced dose and/or frequency of voriconazole and 
fluconazole that would eliminate this effect have not been established. Monitoring for 
voriconazole-associated adverse reactions is recommended if voriconazole is used sequentially after 
fluconazole (see section 4.5).  
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains 221 mg of sodium per vial, equivalent to 11% of the WHO recommended 
maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.  
Cyclodextrins  
The powder for solution for infusion contains cyclodextrins (3,200 mg cyclodextrins in each vial which is 
equivalent to 160 mg/ml when reconstituted in 20 ml, see sections 2 and 6.1) which can influence the 
properties (such as toxicity) of the active substance and other medicines. Safety aspects of cyclodextrins 
have been considered during the development and safety assessment of the drug product.  
As cyclodextrins are renally excreted, in patients with moderate to severe renal dysfunction accumulation of 
cyclodextrin may occur.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Voriconazole is metabolised by, and inhibits the activity of, cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, CYP2C19, 
CYP2C9, and CYP3A4. Inhibitors or inducers of these isoenzymes may increase or decrease voriconazole 
plasma concentrations, respectively, and there is potential for voriconazole to increase the plasma 
concentrations of substances metabolised by these CYP450 isoenzymes, in particular for substances 
metabolised by CYP3A4 since voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor though the increase in AUC is 
substrate dependent (see Table below). 
Unless otherwise specified, drug interaction studies have been performed in healthy adult male subjects 
using multiple dosing to steady state with oral voriconazole at 200 mg twice daily (BID). These results are 
relevant to other populations and routes of administration.  
Voriconazole should be administered with caution in patients with concomitant medication that is known to 
prolong QTc interval. When there is also a potential for voriconazole to increase the plasma concentrations 
of substances metabolised by CYP3A4 isoenzymes (certain antihistamines, quinidine, cisapride, pimozide 
and ivabradine), coadministration is contraindicated (see below and section 4.3). 
Interaction table 
Interactions between voriconazole and other medicinal products are listed in the table below (once daily as 
“QD”, twice daily as “BID”, three times daily as “TID” and not determined as “ND”). The direction of the 
arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean 
ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) the 80-125% range. The asterisk (*) indicates a two-way 
interaction. AUC, AUCt and AUC0- represent area under the curve over a dosing interval, from time zero to 
the time with detectable measurement and from time zero to infinity, respectively. 
The interactions in the table are presented in the following order: contraindications, those requiring dose 
adjustment and careful clinical and/or biological monitoring, and finally those that have no significant 
pharmacokinetic interaction but may be of clinical interest in this therapeutic field. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, 
quinidine, terfenadine and 
ivabradine 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Carbamazepine and long-acting 
barbiturates (including but not 
limited to: phenobarbital, 
mephobarbital)  
[potent CYP450 inducers] 
Efavirenz (a non-nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitor) 
[CYP450 inducer; CYP3A4 
inhibitor and substrate] 
Efavirenz 400 mg QD, 
coadministered with 
voriconazole 200 mg BID* 
Efavirenz 300 mg QD, 
coadministered with 
voriconazole 400 mg BID* 
Ergot alkaloids (including but not 
limited to: ergotamine and 
dihydroergotamine) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Lurasidone  
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Naloxegol 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Although not studied, increased 
plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products can lead to QTc 
prolongation and rare occurrences 
of torsades de pointes. 
Although not studied, 
carbamazepine and long-acting 
barbiturates are likely to 
significantly decrease plasma 
voriconazole concentrations. 
Efavirenz Cmax  38% 
Efavirenz AUC  44% 
Voriconazole Cmax  61% 
Voriconazole AUC  77% 
Compared to efavirenz 600 mg QD, 
Efavirenz Cmax ↔ 
Efavirenz AUC  17% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  23% 
Voriconazole AUC  7% 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of ergot alkaloids 
and lead to ergotism. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of lurasidone 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of naloxegol 
Use of standard doses of 
voriconazole with efavirenz 
doses of 400 mg QD or higher 
is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).  
Voriconazole may be 
coadministered with efavirenz 
if the voriconazole 
maintenance dose is increased 
to 400 mg BID and the 
efavirenz dose is decreased to 
300 mg QD. When 
voriconazole treatment is 
stopped, the initial dose of 
efavirenz should be restored 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Rifabutin  
[potent CYP450 inducer] 
300 mg QD  
300 mg QD (coadministered with 
voriconazole 350 mg BID)* 
300 mg QD (coadministered with 
voriconazole 400 mg BID)* 
Rifampicin (600 mg QD) 
[potent CYP450 inducer] 
Ritonavir (protease inhibitor)  
[potent CYP450 inducer; 
CYP3A4 inhibitor and substrate] 
High dose (400 mg BID) 
 Low dose (100 mg BID)* 
Voriconazole Cmax  69% 
Voriconazole AUC  78% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  4% 
Voriconazole AUC  32%  
Rifabutin Cmax  195% 
Rifabutin AUC  331% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  104% 
Voriconazole AUC  87%  
Concomitant use of 
voriconazole and rifabutin 
should be avoided unless the 
benefit outweighs the risk. 
The maintenance dose of 
voriconazole may be increased 
to 5 mg/kg intravenously BID 
or from 200 mg to 350 mg 
orally BID (100 mg to 200 mg 
orally BID in patients less than 
40 kg) (see section 4.2).  
Careful monitoring of full 
blood counts and adverse 
reactions to rifabutin (e.g., 
uveitis) is recommended when 
rifabutin is coadministered 
with voriconazole. 
Voriconazole Cmax  93% 
Voriconazole AUC  96% 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Ritonavir Cmax and AUC ↔ 
Voriconazole Cmax  66% 
Voriconazole AUC  82% 
Ritonavir Cmax  25% 
Ritonavir AUC 13% 
Voriconazole Cmax  24% 
Voriconazole AUC  39% 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and high doses of 
ritonavir (400 mg and above 
BID) is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and low-dose 
ritonavir (100 mg BID) should 
be avoided unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk 
to the patient justifies the use 
of voriconazole. 
St. John’s Wort  
[CYP450 inducer; P-gp inducer] 
300 mg TID (coadministered 
with voriconazole 400 mg single 
dose) 
Tolvaptan  
[CYP3A substrate] 
In an independent published study,  
Voriconazole AUC0-  59% 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of tolvaptan. 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Venetoclax  
[CYP3A substrate] 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of 
venetoclax. 
Fluconazole (200 mg QD) 
[CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and 
CYP3A4 inhibitor] 
Voriconazole Cmax  57% 
Voriconazole AUC  79% 
Fluconazole Cmax ND 
Fluconazole AUC ND 
Phenytoin  
[CYP2C9 substrate and potent 
CYP450 inducer] 
300 mg QD 
300 mg QD (coadministered with 
voriconazole 400 mg BID)* 
Voriconazole Cmax  49% 
Voriconazole AUC  69% 
Phenytoin Cmax  67% 
Phenytoin AUC  81% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  34% 
Voriconazole AUC  39% 
Letermovir  
[CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 
inducer] 
Voriconazole Cmax ↓ 39% 
Voriconazole AUC0-12 ↓ 44% 
Voriconazole C12 ↓ 51% 
Flucloxacillin 
[CYP450 inducer] 
Significantly decreased plasma 
voriconazole concentrations have 
been reported.  
44 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Concomitant administration of 
voriconazole is 
contraindicated at initiation 
and during venetoclax dose 
titration phase (see section 
4.3). Dose reduction of 
venetoclax is required as 
instructed in venetoclax 
prescribing information during 
steady daily dosing; close 
monitoring for signs of 
toxicity is recommended. 
The reduced dose and/or 
frequency of voriconazole and 
fluconazole that would 
eliminate this effect have not 
been established. Monitoring 
for voriconazole-associated 
adverse reactions is 
recommended if voriconazole 
is used sequentially after 
fluconazole. 
Concomitant use of 
voriconazole and phenytoin 
should be avoided unless the 
benefit outweighs the risk. 
Careful monitoring of 
phenytoin plasma levels is 
recommended.  
Phenytoin may be 
coadministered with 
voriconazole if the 
maintenance dose of 
voriconazole is increased to 
5 mg/kg IV BID or from 
200 mg to 400 mg oral BID 
(100 mg to 200 mg oral BID in 
patients less than 40 kg) (see 
section 4.2).  
If concomitant administration 
of voriconazole with 
letermovir cannot be avoided, 
monitor for loss of 
voriconazole effectiveness. 
If concomitant administration 
of voriconazole with 
flucloxacillin cannot be 
avoided, monitor for potential 
loss of voriconazole 
effectiveness (e.g., by 
therapeutic drug monitoring); 
increasing the dose of 
voriconazole may be needed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
If concomitant use cannot be 
avoided, frequent ECG 
monitoring is recommended 
(see section 4.4). 
If concomitant use cannot be 
avoided, dose reduction of the 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor and 
close clinical monitoring is 
recommended (see section 
4.4). 
Close monitoring of 
prothrombin time or other 
suitable anticoagulation tests is 
recommended, and the dose of 
anticoagulants should be 
adjusted accordingly.  
Dose reduction of ivacaftor is 
recommended. 
Dose reduction of 
benzodiazepines should be 
considered.  
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Glasdegib 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
(including but not limited to: 
axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, 
ceritinib, cobimetinib, 
dabrafenib, dasatinib, nilotinib, 
sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Anticoagulants 
Warfarin (30 mg single dose, 
coadministered with 300 mg BID 
voriconazole) 
[CYP2C9 substrate] 
Other oral coumarins 
(including but not limited to: 
phenprocoumon, acenocoumarol) 
[CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 
substrates] 
Ivacaftor 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Benzodiazepines  
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of glasdegib and 
increase risk of QTc prolongation. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
may increase plasma concentrations 
of tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
metabolised by CYP3A4. 
Maximum increase in prothrombin 
time was approximately 2-fold. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
may increase the plasma 
concentrations of coumarins that 
may cause an increase in 
prothrombin time. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of ivacaftor with risk 
of increased adverse reactions. 
Midazolam (0.05 mg/kg IV 
single dose) 
In an independent published study,  
Midazolam AUC0-  3.7-fold 
Midazolam (7.5 mg oral 
single dose) 
Other benzodiazepines 
(including but not limited to: 
triazolam, alprazolam) 
In an independent published study,  
Midazolam Cmax  3.8-fold 
Midazolam AUC0-  10.3-fold 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of other 
benzodiazepines that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4 and lead 
to a prolonged sedative effect. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Immunosuppressants 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Sirolimus (2 mg single dose) 
Everolimus 
[also P-gp substrate] 
In an independent published study, 
Sirolimus Cmax  6.6-fold 
Sirolimus AUC0-  11-fold 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of 
everolimus. 
Ciclosporin (in stable renal 
transplant recipients receiving 
chronic ciclosporin therapy) 
Ciclosporin Cmax  13% 
Ciclosporin AUC  70% 
Tacrolimus (0.1 mg/kg single 
dose) 
Tacrolimus Cmax  117% 
Tacrolimus AUCt  221% 
Long-Acting Opiates 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Oxycodone (10 mg single dose) 
In an independent published study, 
Oxycodone Cmax  1.7-fold 
Oxycodone AUC0-  3.6-fold 
46 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and sirolimus is 
contraindicated (see section 
4.3). 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and everolimus is 
not recommended because 
voriconazole is expected to 
significantly increase 
everolimus concentrations (see 
section 4.4). 
When initiating voriconazole 
in patients already on 
ciclosporin it is recommended 
that the ciclosporin dose be 
halved and ciclosporin level 
carefully monitored. Increased 
ciclosporin levels have been 
associated with nephrotoxicity. 
When voriconazole is 
discontinued, ciclosporin 
levels must be carefully 
monitored and the dose 
increased as necessary. 
When initiating voriconazole 
in patients already on 
tacrolimus, it is recommended 
that the tacrolimus dose be 
reduced to a third of the 
original dose and tacrolimus 
level carefully monitored. 
Increased tacrolimus levels 
have been associated with 
nephrotoxicity. When 
voriconazole is discontinued, 
tacrolimus levels must be 
carefully monitored and the 
dose increased as necessary. 
Dose reduction in oxycodone 
and other long-acting opiates 
metabolised by CYP3A4 
(e.g., hydrocodone) should be 
considered. Frequent 
monitoring for 
opiate-associated adverse 
reactions may be necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Methadone (32-100 mg QD) 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
R-methadone (active) Cmax  31% 
R-methadone (active) AUC  47% 
S-methadone Cmax  65% 
S-methadone AUC  103% 
Non-Steroidal Anti-
Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) 
[CYP2C9 substrates] 
Ibuprofen (400 mg single dose) 
Diclofenac (50 mg single dose) 
Omeprazole (40 mg QD)* 
[CYP2C19 inhibitor; CYP2C19 
and CYP3A4 substrate] 
Oral Contraceptives*  
[CYP3A4 substrate; CYP2C19 
inhibitor] 
Norethisterone/ethinylestradiol 
(1 mg/0.035 mg QD)  
Short-acting Opiates 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
S-Ibuprofen Cmax  20% 
S-Ibuprofen AUC0-  100% 
Diclofenac Cmax  114% 
Diclofenac AUC0-  78% 
Omeprazole Cmax  116% 
Omeprazole AUC  280% 
Voriconazole Cmax  15% 
Voriconazole AUC  41% 
Other proton pump inhibitors that 
are CYP2C19 substrates may also 
be inhibited by voriconazole and 
may result in increased plasma 
concentrations of these medicinal 
products. 
Ethinylestradiol Cmax  36% 
Ethinylestradiol AUC  61% 
Norethisterone Cmax  15% 
Norethisterone AUC  53% 
Voriconazole Cmax  14% 
Voriconazole AUC  46% 
Alfentanil (20 μg/kg single dose, 
with concomitant naloxone) 
In an independent published study, 
Alfentanil AUC0-  6-fold 
Fentanyl (5 g/kg single dose) 
Statins (e.g., lovastatin) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
In an independent published study, 
Fentanyl AUC0-  1.34-fold 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of statins that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4 and could 
lead to rhabdomyolysis.  
Sulfonylureas (including but not 
limited to: tolbutamide, glipizide, 
glyburide) 
[CYP2C9 substrates] 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of sulfonylureas and 
cause hypoglycaemia. 
47 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Frequent monitoring for 
adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to methadone, 
including QTc prolongation, is 
recommended. Dose reduction 
of methadone may be needed. 
Frequent monitoring for 
adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to NSAIDs is 
recommended. Dose reduction 
of NSAIDs may be needed. 
No dose adjustment of 
voriconazole is recommended.  
When initiating voriconazole 
in patients already receiving 
omeprazole doses of 40 mg or 
above, it is recommended that 
the omeprazole dose be 
halved.  
Monitoring for adverse 
reactions related to oral 
contraceptives, in addition to 
those for voriconazole, is 
recommended.  
Dose reduction of alfentanil, 
fentanyl and other short-acting 
opiates similar in structure to 
alfentanil and metabolised by 
CYP3A4 (e.g., sufentanil) 
should be considered. 
Extended and frequent 
monitoring for respiratory 
depression and other 
opiate-associated adverse 
reactions is recommended.  
If concomitant administration 
of voriconazole with statins 
metabolised by CYP3A4 
cannot be avoided, dose 
reduction of the statin should 
be considered.  
Careful monitoring of blood 
glucose is recommended. Dose 
reduction of sulfonylureas 
should be considered.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Dose reduction of vinca 
alkaloids should be 
considered. 
Careful monitoring for any 
occurrence of drug toxicity 
and/or lack of efficacy, and 
dose adjustment may be 
needed. 
Careful monitoring for any 
occurrence of drug toxicity 
and/or lack of efficacy, and 
dose adjustment may be 
needed. 
Dose adjustment of tretinoin is 
recommended during 
treatment with voriconazole 
and after its discontinuation. 
No dose adjustment  
No dose adjustment  
No dose adjustment  
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of vinca alkaloids 
and lead to neurotoxicity. 
Not studied clinically. In vitro 
studies show that voriconazole may 
inhibit the metabolism of HIV 
protease inhibitors and the 
metabolism of voriconazole may 
also be inhibited by HIV protease 
inhibitors. 
Not studied clinically. In vitro 
studies show that the metabolism of 
voriconazole may be inhibited by 
NNRTIs and voriconazole may 
inhibit the metabolism of NNRTIs.  
The findings of the effect of 
efavirenz on voriconazole suggest 
that the metabolism of voriconazole 
may be induced by an NNRTI. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
may increase tretinoin 
concentrations and increase risk of 
adverse reactions (pseudotumor 
cerebri, hypercalcaemia). 
Voriconazole Cmax  18% 
Voriconazole AUC  23% 
Digoxin Cmax ↔ 
Digoxin AUC ↔ 
Indinavir Cmax ↔ 
Indinavir AUC ↔ 
Voriconazole Cmax ↔ 
Voriconazole AUC ↔ 
Vinca Alkaloids (including but 
not limited to: vincristine and 
vinblastine) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Other HIV Protease Inhibitors 
(including but not limited to: 
saquinavir, amprenavir and 
nelfinavir)* 
[CYP3A4 substrates and 
inhibitors] 
Other Non-Nucleoside Reverse 
Transcriptase Inhibitors 
(NNRTIs) (including but not 
limited to: delavirdine, 
nevirapine)* 
[CYP3A4 substrates, inhibitors 
or CYP450 inducers] 
Tretinoin 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Cimetidine (400 mg BID) 
[non-specific CYP450 inhibitor 
and increases gastric pH] 
Digoxin (0.25 mg QD) 
[P-gp substrate] 
Indinavir (800 mg TID) 
[CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
substrate] 
Macrolide antibiotics 
Erythromycin (1 g BID) 
[CYP3A4 inhibitor] 
Voriconazole Cmax and AUC ↔ 
No dose adjustment 
Azithromycin (500 mg QD) 
Voriconazole Cmax and AUC ↔ 
The effect of voriconazole on either 
erythromycin or azithromycin is 
unknown. 
Mycophenolic acid Cmax ↔ 
Mycophenolic acid AUCt ↔ 
No dose adjustment  
Mycophenolic acid (1 g single 
dose)  
[UDP-glucuronyl transferase 
substrate] 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Corticosteroids 
Prednisolone (60 mg single dose)  
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Prednisolone Cmax  11% 
Prednisolone AUC0-  34% 
Ranitidine (150 mg BID) 
[increases gastric pH] 
Voriconazole Cmax and AUC ↔ 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
No dose adjustment 
Patients on long-term 
treatment with voriconazole 
and corticosteroids (including 
inhaled corticosteroids e.g., 
budesonide and intranasal 
corticosteroids) should be 
carefully monitored for 
adrenal cortex dysfunction 
both during treatment and 
when voriconazole is 
discontinued (see section 4.4). 
No dose adjustment  
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data on the use of VFEND in pregnant women available.  
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is 
unknown.  
VFEND must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential 
risk to the foetus.  
Women of child-bearing potential  
Women of child-bearing potential must always use effective contraception during treatment.  
Breast-feeding  
The excretion of voriconazole into breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on 
initiation of treatment with VFEND. 
Fertility 
In an animal study, no impairment of fertility was demonstrated in male and female rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
VFEND has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. It may cause transient and 
reversible changes to vision, including blurring, altered/enhanced visual perception and/or photophobia. 
Patients must avoid potentially hazardous tasks, such as driving or operating machinery while experiencing 
these symptoms.  
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of safety profile 
The safety profile of voriconazole in adults is based on an integrated safety database of more than 
2,000 subjects (including 1,603 adult patients in therapeutic trials) and an additional 270 adults in 
prophylaxis trials. This represents a heterogeneous population, containing patients with haematological 
malignancy, HIV-infected patients with oesophageal candidiasis and refractory fungal infections, 
non-neutropenic patients with candidaemia or aspergillosis and healthy volunteers.  
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions were visual impairment, pyrexia, rash, vomiting, nausea, 
diarrhoea, headache, peripheral oedema, liver function test abnormal, respiratory distress and abdominal 
pain. 
The severity of the adverse reactions was generally mild to moderate. No clinically significant differences 
were seen when the safety data were analysed by age, race, or gender.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
In the table below, since the majority of the studies were of an open nature, all causality adverse reactions 
and their frequency categories in 1,873 adults from pooled therapeutic (1,603) and prophylaxis (270) studies, 
by system organ class, are listed. 
Frequency categories are expressed as: Very common (1/10); Common (1/100 to 1/10); Uncommon 
(1/1,000 to 1/100); Rare (1/10,000 to 1/1,000); Very rare (1/10,000); Not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.  
Undesirable effects reported in subjects receiving voriconazole:  
System 
Organ Class 
Very common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000 
Frequenc
y 
not 
known 
(cannot be 
estimated 
from 
available 
data) 
Infections 
and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant 
and 
unspecified 
(including 
cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
sinusitis 
pseudomembrano
us colitis 
squamous cell 
carcinoma 
(including 
cutaneous SCC in 
situ, or Bowen’s 
disease)*,** 
agranulocytosis1, 
pancytopenia, 
thrombocytopenia2
, leukopenia, 
anaemia 
bone marrow 
failure, 
lymphadenopathy, 
eosinophilia 
disseminated 
intravascular 
coagulation 
hypersensitivity 
adrenal 
insufficiency, 
hypothyroidism 
anaphylactoid 
reaction 
hyperthyroidis
m 
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders 
oedema 
peripheral 
hypoglycaemia, 
hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
Organ Class 
Very common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000 
Frequenc
y 
not 
known 
(cannot be 
estimated 
from 
available 
data) 
hepatic 
encephalopathy
, Guillain-Barre 
syndrome, 
nystagmus 
optic atrophy, 
corneal opacity 
torsades de 
pointes, 
atrioventricular 
block complete, 
bundle branch 
block, nodal 
rhythm 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
headache 
Nervous 
system 
disorders  
depression, 
hallucination, 
anxiety, insomnia, 
agitation, 
confusional state 
convulsion, 
syncope, tremor, 
hypertonia3, 
paraesthesia, 
somnolence, 
dizziness 
Eye disorders   visual 
impairment6 
retinal 
haemorrhage 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
arrhythmia 
supraventricular, 
tachycardia, 
bradycardia 
Vascular 
disorders  
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestin
al disorders  
hypotension, 
phlebitis 
acute respiratory 
distress syndrome, 
pulmonary 
oedema 
cheilitis, 
dyspepsia, 
constipation, 
gingivitis 
respiratory 
distress9 
diarrhoea, 
vomiting, 
abdominal 
pain, nausea 
brain oedema, 
encephalopathy4, 
extrapyramidal 
disorder5, 
neuropathy 
peripheral, ataxia, 
hypoaesthesia, 
dysgeusia 
optic nerve 
disorder7, 
papilloedema8, 
oculogyric crisis, 
diplopia, scleritis, 
blepharitis 
hypoacusis, 
vertigo, tinnitus 
ventricular 
fibrillation, 
ventricular 
extrasystoles, 
ventricular 
tachycardia, 
electrocardiogram 
QT prolonged, 
supraventricular 
tachycardia 
thrombophlebitis, 
lymphangitis 
peritonitis, 
pancreatitis, 
swollen tongue, 
duodenitis, 
gastroenteritis, 
glossitis 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
Organ Class 
Very common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
liver function 
test abnormal 
rash 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders  
jaundice, jaundice 
cholestatic, 
hepatitis10 
dermatitis 
exfoliative, 
alopecia, rash 
maculo-papular, 
pruritus, erythema, 
phototoxicity**  
hepatic failure, 
hepatomegaly, 
cholecystitis, 
cholelithiasis 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome8, 
purpura, urticaria, 
dermatitis allergic, 
rash papular, rash 
macular, eczema 
toxic epidermal 
necrolysis8, 
drug reaction 
with 
eosinophilia 
and systemic 
symptoms 
(DRESS)8, 
angioedema, 
actinic 
keratosis*, 
pseudoporphyri
a, erythema 
multiforme, 
psoriasis, drug 
eruption 
Frequenc
y 
not 
known 
(cannot be 
estimated 
from 
available 
data) 
cutaneous 
lupus 
erythemato
sus*, 
ephelides*
, lentigo* 
Musculoskele
tal and 
connective 
tissue 
disorders  
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders  
General 
disorders and 
administratio
n site 
conditions  
Investigations 
pyrexia 
back pain 
arthritis, 
periostitis*,** 
renal failure acute, 
haematuria 
chest pain, face 
oedema11, 
asthenia, chills 
blood creatinine 
increased 
renal tubular 
necrosis, 
proteinuria, 
nephritis 
infusion site 
reaction, influenza 
like illness 
blood urea 
increased, blood 
cholesterol 
increased 
*ADR identified post-marketing 
**Frequency category is based on an observational study utilising real-world data from secondary data sources in 
Sweden 
1 Includes febrile neutropenia and neutropenia. 
2 Includes immune thrombocytopenic purpura. 
3 Includes nuchal rigidity and tetany. 
4 Includes hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy and metabolic encephalopathy. 
5 Includes akathisia and parkinsonism. 
6 See “Visual impairments” paragraph in section 4.8. 
7 Prolonged optic neuritis has been reported post-marketing. See section 4.4. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 See section 4.4. 
9 Includes dyspnoea and dyspnoea exertional. 
10 Includes drug-induced liver injury, hepatitis toxic, hepatocellular injury and hepatotoxicity. 
11 Includes periorbital oedema, lip oedema, and oedema mouth. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Visual impairments 
In clinical trials, visual impairments (including blurred vision, photophobia, chloropsia, chromatopsia, colour 
blindness, cyanopsia, eye disorder, halo vision, night blindness, oscillopsia, photopsia, scintillating scotoma, 
visual acuity reduced, visual brightness, visual field defect, vitreous floaters, and xanthopsia) with 
voriconazole were very common. These visual impairments were transient and fully reversible, with the 
majority spontaneously resolving within 60 minutes and no clinically significant long-term visual effects 
were observed. There was evidence of attenuation with repeated doses of voriconazole. The visual 
impairments were generally mild, rarely resulted in discontinuation and were not associated with long-term 
sequelae. Visual impairments may be associated with higher plasma concentrations and/or doses.  
The mechanism of action is unknown, although the site of action is most likely to be within the retina. In a 
study in healthy volunteers investigating the impact of voriconazole on retinal function, voriconazole caused 
a decrease in the electroretinogram (ERG) waveform amplitude. The ERG measures electrical currents in the 
retina. The ERG changes did not progress over 29 days of treatment and were fully reversible on withdrawal 
of voriconazole.  
There have been post-marketing reports of prolonged visual adverse events (see section 4.4). 
Dermatological reactions  
Dermatological reactions were very common in patients treated with voriconazole in clinical trials, but these 
patients had serious underlying diseases and were receiving multiple concomitant medicinal products. The 
majority of rashes were of mild to moderate severity. Patients have developed severe cutaneous adverse 
reactions (SCARs), including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) (uncommon), toxic epidermal necrolysis 
(TEN) (rare), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) (rare) and erythema 
multiforme (rare) during treatment with VFEND (see section 4.4). 
If a patient develops a rash they should be monitored closely and VFEND discontinued if lesions progress. 
Photosensitivity reactions such as ephelides, lentigo and actinic keratosis have been reported, especially 
during long-term therapy (see section 4.4).  
There have been reports of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (including cutaneous SCC in situ, or 
Bowen’s disease) in patients treated with VFEND for long periods of time; the mechanism has not been 
established (see section 4.4). 
Liver function tests 
The overall incidence of transaminase increases >3 xULN (not necessarily comprising an adverse event) in 
the voriconazole clinical programme was 18.0% (319/1,768) in adults and 25.8% (73/283) in paediatric 
subjects who received voriconazole for pooled therapeutic and prophylaxis use. Liver function test 
abnormalities may be associated with higher plasma concentrations and/or doses. The majority of abnormal 
liver function tests either resolved during treatment without dose adjustment or following dose adjustment, 
including discontinuation of therapy. 
Voriconazole has been associated with cases of serious hepatic toxicity in patients with other serious 
underlying conditions. This includes cases of jaundice, hepatitis and hepatic failure leading to death (see 
section 4.4).  
Infusion-related reactions  
During infusion of the intravenous formulation of voriconazole in healthy subjects, anaphylactoid-type 
reactions, including flushing, fever, sweating, tachycardia, chest tightness, dyspnoea, faintness, nausea, 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pruritus and rash have occurred. Symptoms appeared immediately upon initiating the infusion (see section 
4.4).  
Prophylaxis  
In an open-label, comparative, multicenter study comparing voriconazole and itraconazole as primary 
prophylaxis in adult and adolescent allogeneic HSCT recipients without prior proven or probable IFI, 
permanent discontinuation of voriconazole due to AEs was reported in 39.3% of subjects versus 39.6% of 
subjects in the itraconazole arm. Treatment-emergent hepatic AEs resulted in permanent discontinuation of 
study medication for 50 subjects (21.4%) treated with voriconazole and for 18 subjects (7.1%) treated with 
itraconazole.  
Paediatric population  
The safety of voriconazole was investigated in 288 paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years (169) and 12 to 
<18 years (119) who received voriconazole for prophylaxis (183) and therapeutic use (105) in clinical trials. 
The safety of voriconazole was also investigated in 158 additional paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years in 
compassionate use programs. Overall, the safety profile of voriconazole in paediatric population was similar 
to that in adults. However, a trend towards a higher frequency of liver enzyme elevations, reported as 
adverse events in clinical trials was observed in paediatric patients as compared to adults (14.2% 
transaminases increased in paediatrics compared to 5.3% in adults). Post-marketing data suggest there might 
be a higher occurrence of skin reactions (especially erythema) in the paediatric population compared to 
adults. In the 22 patients less than 2 years old who received voriconazole in a compassionate use programme, 
the following adverse reactions (for which a relationship to voriconazole could not be excluded) were 
reported: photosensitivity reaction (1), arrhythmia (1), pancreatitis (1), blood bilirubin increased (1), hepatic 
enzymes increased (1), rash (1) and papilloedema (1). There have been post-marketing reports of pancreatitis 
in paediatric patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
In clinical trials there were 3 cases of accidental overdose. All occurred in paediatric patients, who received 
up to five times the recommended intravenous dose of voriconazole. A single adverse reaction of 
photophobia of 10 minutes duration was reported.  
There is no known antidote to voriconazole.  
Voriconazole is haemodialysed with a clearance of 121 ml/min. The intravenous vehicle, SBECD, is 
haemodialysed with a clearance of 55 ml/min. In an overdose, haemodialysis may assist in the removal of 
voriconazole and SBECD from the body.  
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code: J02A C03 
Mode of action 
Voriconazole is a triazole antifungal agent. The primary mode of action of voriconazole is the inhibition of 
fungal cytochrome P450-mediated 14 alpha-lanosterol demethylation, an essential step in fungal ergosterol 
biosynthesis. The accumulation of 14 alpha-methyl sterols correlates with the subsequent loss of ergosterol 
in the fungal cell membrane and may be responsible for the antifungal activity of voriconazole. Voriconazole 
has been shown to be more selective for fungal cytochrome P-450 enzymes than for various mammalian 
cytochrome P-450 enzyme systems. 
54 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
In 10 therapeutic studies, the median for the average and maximum plasma concentrations in individual 
subjects across the studies was 2425 ng/ml (inter-quartile range 1193 to 4380 ng/ml) and 3742 ng/ml 
(inter-quartile range 2027 to 6302 ng/ml), respectively. A positive association between mean, maximum or 
minimum plasma voriconazole concentration and efficacy in therapeutic studies was not found and this 
relationship has not been explored in prophylaxis studies.  
Pharmacokinetic-Pharmacodynamic analyses of clinical trial data identified positive associations between 
plasma voriconazole concentrations and both liver function test abnormalities and visual disturbances. Dose 
adjustments in prophylaxis studies have not been explored. 
Clinical efficacy and safety  
In vitro, voriconazole displays broad-spectrum antifungal activity with antifungal potency against Candida 
species (including fluconazole -resistant C. krusei and resistant strains of C. glabrata and C. albicans) and 
fungicidal activity against all Aspergillus species tested. In addition voriconazole shows in vitro fungicidal 
activity against emerging fungal pathogens, including those such as Scedosporium or Fusarium which have 
limited susceptibility to existing antifungal agents. 
Clinical efficacy defined as partial or complete response, has been demonstrated for Aspergillus spp. 
including A. flavus, A. fumigatus, A. terreus, A. niger, A. nidulans; Candida spp., including C. albicans, C. 
glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis; and limited numbers of C. dubliniensis, C. 
inconspicua, and C. guilliermondii, Scedosporium spp., including S. apiospermum, S. prolificans; and 
Fusarium spp.  
Other treated fungal infections (often with either partial or complete response) included isolated cases of 
Alternaria spp., Blastomyces dermatitidis, Blastoschizomyces capitatus, Cladosporium spp., Coccidioides 
immitis, Conidiobolus coronatus, Cryptococcus neoformans, Exserohilum rostratum, Exophiala spinifera, 
Fonsecaea pedrosoi, Madurella mycetomatis, Paecilomyces lilacinus, Penicillium spp. including P. 
marneffei, Phialophora richardsiae, Scopulariopsis brevicaulis and Trichosporon spp. including T. beigelii 
infections.  
In vitro activity against clinical isolates has been observed for Acremonium spp., Alternaria spp., Bipolaris 
spp., Cladophialophora spp., and Histoplasma capsulatum, with most strains being inhibited by 
concentrations of voriconazole in the range 0.05 to 2 µg/ml.  
In vitro activity against the following pathogens has been shown, but the clinical significance is unknown: 
Curvularia spp. and Sporothrix spp.  
Breakpoints 
Specimens for fungal culture and other relevant laboratory studies (serology, histopathology) should be 
obtained prior to therapy to isolate and identify causative organisms. Therapy may be instituted before the 
results of the cultures and other laboratory studies are known; however, once these results become available, 
anti-infective therapy should be adjusted accordingly.  
The species most frequently involved in causing human infections include C. albicans, C. parapsilosis, C. 
tropicalis, C. glabrata and C. krusei, all of which usually exhibit minimal inhibitory concentration (MICs) of 
less than 1 mg/L for voriconazole.  
However, the in vitro activity of voriconazole against Candida species is not uniform. Specifically, for C. 
glabrata, the MICs of voriconazole for fluconazole-resistant isolates are proportionally higher than are those 
of fluconazole-susceptible isolates. Therefore, every attempt should be made to identify Candida to species 
level. If antifungal susceptibility testing is available, the MIC results may be interpreted using breakpoint 
criteria established by European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST). 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUCAST Breakpoints 
Candida and Aspergillus species 
Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) 
breakpoint (mg/L) 
>R (Resistant) 
0.25 
0.25 
IE 
IE 
0.25 
0.25 
IE 
IE 
1 
1 
IE5 
IE5 
IE5 
IE 
≤S (Susceptible) 
0.06 
0.06 
Insufficient evidence (IE) 
IE 
0.125 
0.125 
IE 
IE 
1 
1 
IE5 
IE5 
IE5 
IE 
Candida albicans1 
Candida dubliniensis1 
Candida glabrata 
Candida krusei 
Candida parapsilosis1 
Candida tropicalis1 
Candida guilliermondii2 
Non-species related breakpoints for Candida3 
Aspergillus fumigatus4 
Aspergillus nidulans4 
Aspergillus flavus  
Aspergillus niger 
Aspergillus terreus 
Non-species related breakpoints6 
1 Strains with MIC values above the Susceptible/Intermediate (S/I) breakpoint are rare or not yet reported. 
The identification and antifungal susceptibility tests on any such isolate must be repeated and if the result 
is confirmed the isolate sent to a reference laboratory. Until there is evidence regarding clinical response 
for confirmed isolates with MIC above the current resistant breakpoint they should be reported resistant. 
A clinical response of 76% was achieved in infections caused by the species listed below when MICs were 
lower than or equal to the epidemiological cut-offs. Therefore, wild type populations of C. albicans, C. 
dubliniensis, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis are considered susceptible. 
2 The epidemiological cut-off values (ECOFFs) for these species are in general higher than for C. 
albicans. 
3 Non-species related breakpoints have been determined mainly on the basis of PK/PD data and are 
independent of MIC distributions of specific Candida species. They are for use only for organisms that do 
not have specific breakpoints. 
4 Area of technical uncertainty (ATU) is 2. Report as R with the following comment: "In some clinical 
situations (non-invasive infections forms) voriconazole can be used provided sufficient exposure is 
ensured". 
5 The ECOFFs for these species are in general one two-fold dilution higher than for A. fumigatus. 
6 Non-species related breakpoints have not been determined. 
Clinical experience  
Successful outcome in this section is defined as complete or partial response.  
Aspergillus infections – efficacy in aspergillosis patients with poor prognosis  
Voriconazole has in vitro fungicidal activity against Aspergillus spp. The efficacy and survival benefit of 
voriconazole versus conventional amphotericin B in the primary treatment of acute invasive aspergillosis 
was demonstrated in an open, randomised, multicentre study in 277 immunocompromised patients treated 
for 12 weeks. Voriconazole was administered intravenously with a loading dose of 6 mg/kg every 12 hours 
for the first 24 hours followed by a maintenance dose of 4 mg/kg every 12 hours for a minimum of 7 days. 
Therapy could then be switched to the oral formulation at a dose of 200 mg every 12 hours. Median duration 
of IV voriconazole therapy was 10 days (range 2-85 days). After IV voriconazole therapy, the median 
duration of oral voriconazole therapy was 76 days (range 2-232 days). 
A satisfactory global response (complete or partial resolution of all attributable symptoms, signs, 
radiographic/bronchoscopic abnormalities present at baseline) was seen in 53% of voriconazole-treated 
patients compared to 31% of patients treated with comparator. The 84-day survival rate for voriconazole was 
statistically significantly higher than that for the comparator and a clinically and statistically significant 
benefit was shown in favour of voriconazole for both time to death and time to discontinuation due to 
toxicity.  
56 
 
 
 
 
 
This study confirmed findings from an earlier, prospectively designed study where there was a positive 
outcome in subjects with risk factors for a poor prognosis, including graft versus host disease, and, in 
particular, cerebral infections (normally associated with almost 100% mortality).  
The studies included cerebral, sinus, pulmonary and disseminated aspergillosis in patients with bone marrow 
and solid organ transplants, haematological malignancies, cancer and AIDS.  
Candidaemia in non-neutropenic patients 
The efficacy of voriconazole compared to the regimen of amphotericin B followed by fluconazole in the 
primary treatment of candidaemia was demonstrated in an open, comparative study. Three hundred and 
seventy non-neutropenic patients (above 12 years of age) with documented candidaemia were included in the 
study, of whom 248 were treated with voriconazole. Nine subjects in the voriconazole group and 5 in the 
amphotericin B followed by fluconazole group also had mycologically proven infection in deep tissue. 
Patients with renal failure were excluded from this study. The median treatment duration was 15 days in both 
treatment arms. In the primary analysis, successful response as assessed by a Data Review Committee 
(DRC) blinded to study medicinal product was defined as resolution/improvement in all clinical signs and 
symptoms of infection with eradication of Candida from blood and infected deep tissue sites 12 weeks after 
the end of therapy (EOT). Patients who did not have an assessment 12 weeks after EOT were counted as 
failures. In this analysis a successful response was seen in 41% of patients in both treatment arms.  
In a secondary analysis, which utilised DRC assessments at the latest evaluable time point (EOT, or 2, 6, or 
12 weeks after EOT) voriconazole and the regimen of amphotericin B followed by fluconazole had 
successful response rates of 65% and 71%, respectively.  
The Investigator’s assessment of successful outcome at each of these time points is shown in the following 
table.  
Timepoint  
EOT  
2 weeks after EOT  
6 weeks after EOT  
12 weeks after EOT  
Voriconazole  
(N=248) 
178 (72%)  
125 (50%) 
104 (42%) 
104 (42%) 
Amphotericin B → fluconazole  
(N=122) 
88 (72%)  
62 (51%) 
55 (45%) 
51 (42%) 
Serious refractory Candida infections  
The study comprised 55 patients with serious refractory systemic Candida infections (including 
candidaemia, disseminated and other invasive candidiasis) where prior antifungal treatment, particularly with 
fluconazole, had been ineffective. Successful response was seen in 24 patients (15 complete, 9 partial 
responses). In fluconazole-resistant non-albicans species, a successful outcome was seen in 3/3 C. krusei 
(complete responses) and 6/8 C. glabrata (5 complete, 1 partial response) infections. The clinical efficacy 
data were supported by limited susceptibility data.  
Scedosporium and Fusarium infections  
Voriconazole was shown to be effective against the following rare fungal pathogens:  
Scedosporium spp.: Successful response to voriconazole therapy was seen in 16 (6 complete, 10 partial 
responses) of 28 patients with S. apiospermum and in 2 (both partial responses) of 7 patients with S. 
prolificans infection. In addition, a successful response was seen in 1 of 3 patients with infections caused by 
more than one organism including Scedosporium spp.  
Fusarium spp.: Seven (3 complete, 4 partial responses) of 17 patients were successfully treated with 
voriconazole. Of these 7 patients, 3 had eye, 1 had sinus, and 3 had disseminated infection. Four additional 
patients with fusariosis had an infection caused by several organisms; 2 of them had a successful outcome.  
The majority of patients receiving voriconazole treatment of the above mentioned rare infections were 
intolerant of, or refractory to, prior antifungal therapy.  
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections – Efficacy in HSCT recipients without prior proven or 
probable IFI 
Voriconazole was compared to itraconazole as primary prophylaxis in an open-label, comparative, 
multicenter study of adult and adolescent allogeneic HSCT recipients without prior proven or probable IFI. 
Success was defined as the ability to continue study drug prophylaxis for 100 days after HSCT (without 
stopping for >14 days) and survival with no proven or probable IFI for 180 days after HSCT. The modified 
intent-to-treat (MITT) group included 465 allogeneic HSCT recipients with 45% of patients having AML. 
From all patients 58% were subject to myeloablative conditions regimens. Prophylaxis with study drug was 
started immediately after HSCT: 224 received voriconazole and 241 received itraconazole. The median 
duration of study drug prophylaxis was 96 days for voriconazole and 68 days for itraconazole in the MITT 
group. 
Success rates and other secondary endpoints are presented in the table below: 
Study Endpoints 
Voriconazole 
N=224 
Itraconazole 
N=241 
Difference in 
proportions and the 
95% confidence 
interval (CI)  
16.4% (7.7%, 25.1%)** 
15.4% (6.6%, 24.2%)** 
14.6% (5.6%, 23.5%) 
P-Value 
0.0002** 
0.0006** 
0.0015 
109 (48.7%) 
121 (54.0%) 
120 (53.6%) 
80 (33.2%) 
96 (39.8%) 
94 (39.0%) 
184 (82.1%) 
3 (1.3%) 
197 (81.7%) 
5 (2.1%) 
0.4% (-6.6%, 7.4%) 
-0.7% (-3.1%, 1.6%) 
0.9107 
0.5390 
2 (0.9%) 
4 (1.7%) 
-0.8% (-2.8%, 1.3%) 
0.4589 
0 
3 (1.2%) 
-1.2% (-2.6%, 0.2%) 
0.0813 
Success at day 180* 
Success at day 100  
Completed at least 100 days of 
study drug prophylaxis  
Survived to day 180 
Developed proven or probable 
IFI to day 180 
Developed proven or probable 
IFI to day 100 
Developed proven or probable 
IFI while on study drug 
* Primary endpoint of the study 
** Difference in proportions, 95% CI and p-values obtained after adjustment for randomization 
The breakthrough IFI rate to Day 180 and the primary endpoint of the study, which is Success at Day 180, 
for patients with AML and myeloablative conditioning regimens respectively, is presented in the table 
below: 
AML 
Study endpoints 
Voriconazole  
(N=98)  
Itraconazole 
(N=109) 
Difference in proportions and 
the 95% confidence interval 
(CI) 
Breakthrough IFI – Day 180 
Success at Day 180* 
1 (1.0%) 
55 (56.1%) 
 2 (1.8%) 
45 (41.3%) 
-0.8% (-4.0%, 2.4%) ** 
14.7% (1.7%, 27.7%)*** 
*   Primary endpoint of study 
** Using a margin of 5%, non inferiority is demonstrated  
***Difference in proportions, 95% CI obtained after adjustment for randomization 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Myeloablative conditioning regimens 
Study endpoints 
Voriconazole  
(N=125)  
Itraconazole 
(N=143) 
Difference in proportions and 
the 95% confidence interval 
(CI) 
Breakthrough IFI – Day 180 
Success at Day 180* 
2 (1.6%) 
70 (56.0%) 
3 (2.1%)  
53 (37.1%) 
-0.5% (-3.7%, 2.7%) ** 
20.1% (8.5%, 31.7%)*** 
*   Primary endpoint of study 
** Using a margin of 5%, non inferiority is demonstrated  
*** Difference in proportions, 95% CI obtained after adjustment for randomization  
Secondary Prophylaxis of IFI – Efficacy in HSCT recipients with prior proven or probable IFI 
Voriconazole was investigated as secondary prophylaxis in an open-label, non-comparative, multicenter 
study of adult allogeneic HSCT recipients with prior proven or probable IFI. The primary endpoint was the 
rate of occurrence of proven and probable IFI during the first year after HSCT. The MITT group included 
40 patients with prior IFI, including 31 with aspergillosis, 5 with candidiasis, and 4 with other IFI. The 
median duration of study drug prophylaxis was 95.5 days in the MITT group. 
Proven or probable IFIs developed in 7.5% (3/40) of patients during the first year after HSCT, including one 
candidemia, one scedosporiosis (both relapses of prior IFI), and one zygomycosis. The survival rate at 
Day 180 was 80.0% (32/40) and at 1 year was 70.0% (28/40). 
Duration of treatment  
In clinical trials, 705 patients received voriconazole therapy for greater than 12 weeks, with 164 patients 
receiving voriconazole for over 6 months.  
Paediatric population 
Fifty-three paediatric patients aged 2 to <18 years were treated with voriconazole in two prospective, 
open-label, non-comparative, multi-center clinical trials. One study enrolled 31 patients with possible, 
proven or probable invasive aspergillosis (IA), of whom 14 patients had proven or probable IA and were 
included in the MITT efficacy analyses. The second study enrolled 22 patients with invasive candidiasis 
including candidaemia (ICC), and esophageal candidiasis (EC) requiring either primary or salvage therapy, 
of whom 17 were included in the MITT efficacy analyses. For patients with IA the overall rates of global 
response at 6 weeks were 64.3% (9/14), the global response rate was 40% (2/5) for patients 2 to <12 years 
and 77.8% (7/9) for patients 12 to <18 years of age. For patients with ICC the global response rate at EOT 
was 85.7% (6/7) and for patients with EC the global response rate at EOT was 70% (7/10). The overall rate 
of response (ICC and EC combined) was 88.9% (8/9) for 2 to <12 years old and 62.5% (5/8) for 12 to 
<18 years old. 
Clinical studies examining QTc interval  
A placebo-controlled, randomized, single-dose, crossover study to evaluate the effect on the QTc interval of 
healthy volunteers was conducted with three oral doses of voriconazole and ketoconazole. The 
placebo-adjusted mean maximum increases in QTc from baseline after 800, 1200 and 1600 mg of 
voriconazole were 5.1, 4.8, and 8.2 msec, respectively and 7.0 msec for ketoconazole 800 mg. No subject in 
any group had an increase in QTc of ≥ 60 msec from baseline. No subject experienced an interval exceeding 
the potentially clinically-relevant threshold of 500 msec.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
General pharmacokinetic characteristics  
The pharmacokinetics of voriconazole have been characterised in healthy subjects, special populations and 
patients. During oral administration of 200 mg or 300 mg twice daily for 14 days in patients at risk of 
aspergillosis (mainly patients with malignant neoplasms of lymphatic or haematopoietic tissue), the observed 
pharmacokinetic characteristics of rapid and consistent absorption, accumulation and non-linear 
pharmacokinetics were in agreement with those observed in healthy subjects.  
The pharmacokinetics of voriconazole are non-linear due to saturation of its metabolism. Greater than 
proportional increase in exposure is observed with increasing dose. It is estimated that, on average, 
59 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increasing the oral dose from 200 mg twice daily to 300 mg twice daily leads to a 2.5-fold increase in 
exposure (AUCτ). The oral maintenance dose of 200 mg (or 100 mg for patients less than 40 kg) achieves a 
voriconazole exposure similar to 3 mg/kg IV. A 300 mg (or 150 mg for patients less than 40 kg) oral 
maintenance dose achieves an exposure similar to 4 mg/kg IV. When the recommended intravenous or oral 
loading dose regimens are administered, plasma concentrations close to steady state are achieved within the 
first 24 hours of dosing. Without the loading dose, accumulation occurs during twice daily multiple dosing 
with steady-state plasma voriconazole concentrations being achieved by Day 6 in the majority of subjects.  
Absorption  
Voriconazole is rapidly and almost completely absorbed following oral administration, with maximum 
plasma concentrations (Cmax) achieved 1-2 hours after dosing. The absolute bioavailability of voriconazole 
after oral administration is estimated to be 96%. When multiple doses of voriconazole are administered with 
high fat meals, Cmax and AUCτ are reduced by 34% and 24%, respectively. The absorption of voriconazole is 
not affected by changes in gastric pH.  
Distribution  
The volume of distribution at steady state for voriconazole is estimated to be 4.6 L/kg, suggesting extensive 
distribution into tissues. Plasma protein binding is estimated to be 58%.  
Cerebrospinal fluid samples from eight patients in a compassionate programme showed detectable 
voriconazole concentrations in all patients.  
Biotransformation 
In vitro studies showed that voriconazole is metabolised by the hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 
CYP2C19, CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. 
The inter-individual variability of voriconazole pharmacokinetics is high.  
In vivo studies indicated that CYP2C19 is significantly involved in the metabolism of voriconazole. This 
enzyme exhibits genetic polymorphism. For example, 15-20% of Asian populations may be expected to be 
poor metabolisers. For Caucasians and Blacks the prevalence of poor metabolisers is 3-5%. Studies 
conducted in Caucasian and Japanese healthy subjects have shown that poor metabolisers have, on average, 
4-fold higher voriconazole exposure (AUCτ) than their homozygous extensive metaboliser counterparts. 
Subjects who are heterozygous extensive metabolisers have on average 2-fold higher voriconazole exposure 
than their homozygous extensive metaboliser counterparts.  
The major metabolite of voriconazole is the N-oxide, which accounts for 72% of the circulating radiolabelled 
metabolites in plasma. This metabolite has minimal antifungal activity and does not contribute to the overall 
efficacy of voriconazole.  
Elimination  
Voriconazole is eliminated via hepatic metabolism with less than 2% of the dose excreted unchanged in the 
urine.  
After administration of a radiolabelled dose of voriconazole, approximately 80% of the radioactivity is 
recovered in the urine after multiple intravenous dosing and 83% in the urine after multiple oral dosing. The 
majority (>94%) of the total radioactivity is excreted in the first 96 hours after both oral and intravenous 
dosing.  
The terminal half-life of voriconazole depends on dose and is approximately 6 hours at 200 mg (orally). 
Because of non-linear pharmacokinetics, the terminal half-life is not useful in the prediction of the 
accumulation or elimination of voriconazole.  
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups  
Gender  
In an oral multiple-dose study, Cmax and AUCτ for healthy young females were 83% and 113% higher, 
respectively, than in healthy young males (18-45 years). In the same study, no significant differences in Cmax 
and AUCτ were observed between healthy elderly males and healthy elderly females (≥65 years).  
In the clinical programme, no dosage adjustment was made on the basis of gender. The safety profile and 
plasma concentrations observed in male and female patients were similar. Therefore, no dosage adjustment 
based on gender is necessary.  
Elderly  
In an oral multiple-dose study Cmax and AUCτ in healthy elderly males (≥65 years) were 61% and 86% 
higher, respectively, than in healthy young males (18-45 years). No significant differences in Cmax and AUCτ 
were observed between healthy elderly females (≥65 years) and healthy young females (18-45 years).  
In the therapeutic studies no dosage adjustment was made on the basis of age. A relationship between plasma 
concentrations and age was observed. The safety profile of voriconazole in young and elderly patients was 
similar and, therefore, no dosage adjustment is necessary for the elderly (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric population 
The recommended doses in children and adolescent patients are based on a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis of data obtained from 112 immunocompromised paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years and 26 
immunocompromised adolescent patients aged 12 to <17 years. Multiple intravenous doses of 3, 4, 6, 7 and 
8 mg/kg twice daily and multiple oral doses (using the powder for oral suspension) of 4 mg/kg, 6 mg/kg, and 
200 mg twice daily were evaluated in 3 paediatric pharmacokinetic studies. Intravenous loading doses of 
6 mg/kg IV twice daily on day 1 followed by 4 mg/kg intravenous dose twice daily and 300 mg oral tablets 
twice daily were evaluated in one adolescent pharmacokinetic study. Larger inter-subject variability was 
observed in paediatric patients compared to adults.  
A comparison of the paediatric and adult population pharmacokinetic data indicated that the predicted total 
exposure (AUC) in children following administration of a 9 mg/kg IV loading dose was comparable to that 
in adults following a 6 mg/kg IV loading dose. The predicted total exposures in children following IV 
maintenance doses of 4 and 8 mg/kg twice daily were comparable to those in adults following 3 and 4 mg/kg 
IV twice daily, respectively. The predicted total exposure in children following an oral maintenance dose of 
9 mg/kg (maximum of 350 mg) twice daily was comparable to that in adults following 200 mg oral twice 
daily. An 8 mg/kg intravenous dose will provide voriconazole exposure approximately  
2-fold higher than a 9 mg/kg oral dose. 
The higher intravenous maintenance dose in paediatric patients relative to adults reflects the higher 
elimination capacity in paediatric patients due to a greater liver mass to body mass ratio. Oral bioavailability 
may, however, be limited in paediatric patients with malabsorption and very low body weight for their age. 
In that case, intravenous voriconazole administration is recommended. 
Voriconazole exposures in the majority of adolescent patients were comparable to those in adults receiving 
the same dosing regimens. However, lower voriconazole exposure was observed in some young adolescents 
with low body weight compared to adults. It is likely that these subjects may metabolise voriconazole more 
similarly to children than to adolescents/adults. Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis, 12- to 
14-year-old adolescents weighing less than 50 kg should receive children’s doses (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment  
In patients with moderate to severe renal dysfunction (serum creatinine levels > 2.5 mg/dl), accumulation of 
the intravenous vehicle, SBECD, occurs (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment  
After an oral single-dose (200 mg), AUC was 233% higher in subjects with mild to moderate hepatic 
cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A and B) compared with subjects with normal hepatic function. Protein binding of 
voriconazole was not affected by impaired hepatic function. 
In an oral multiple-dose study, AUCτ was similar in subjects with moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh B) 
given a maintenance dose of 100 mg twice daily and subjects with normal hepatic function given 200 mg 
twice daily. No pharmacokinetic data are available for patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh C) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Repeated-dose toxicity studies with voriconazole indicated the liver to be the target organ. Hepatotoxicity 
occurred at plasma exposures similar to those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, in common with 
other antifungal agents. In rats, mice and dogs, voriconazole also induced minimal adrenal changes. 
Conventional studies of safety pharmacology, genotoxicity or carcinogenic potential did not reveal a special 
hazard for humans.  
In reproduction studies, voriconazole was shown to be teratogenic in rats and embryotoxic in rabbits at 
systemic exposures equal to those obtained in humans with therapeutic doses. In the pre- and post-natal 
development study in rats at exposures lower than those obtained in humans with therapeutic doses, 
voriconazole prolonged the duration of gestation and labour and produced dystocia with consequent maternal 
mortality and reduced perinatal survival of pups. The effects on parturition are probably mediated by 
species-specific mechanisms, involving reduction of oestradiol levels, and are consistent with those observed 
with other azole antifungal agents. Voriconazole administration induced no impairment of male or female 
fertility in rats at exposures similar to those obtained in humans at therapeutic doses. 
Preclinical data on the intravenous vehicle SBECD indicated that the main effects were vacuolation of 
urinary tract epithelium and activation of macrophages in the liver and lungs in the repeated-dose toxicity 
studies. As GPMT (guinea pig maximisation test) result was positive, prescribers should be aware of the 
hypersensitivity potential of the intravenous formulation. Standard genotoxicity and reproduction studies 
with the excipient SBECD reveal no special hazard for humans. Carcinogenicity studies were not performed 
with SBECD. An impurity present in SBECD has been shown to be an alkylating mutagenic agent with 
evidence for carcinogenicity in rodents. This impurity should be considered a substance with carcinogenic 
potential in humans. In light of these data the duration of treatment with the intravenous formulation should 
be no longer than 6 months.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1  List of excipients  
Sulfobutylether beta cyclodextrin sodium (SBECD) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
VFEND must not be infused into the same line or cannula concomitantly with other intravenous products. 
The bag should be checked to ensure that the infusion is complete. When the VFEND infusion is complete, 
the line may be used for administration of other intravenous products.  
Blood products and short-term infusion of concentrated solutions of electrolytes: Electrolyte disturbances 
such as hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia and hypocalcaemia should be corrected prior to initiation of 
voriconazole therapy (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). VFEND must not be administered simultaneously with any 
blood product or any short-term infusion of concentrated solutions of electrolytes, even if the two infusions 
are running in separate lines.  
62 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total parenteral nutrition: Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) need not be discontinued when prescribed with 
VFEND, but does need to be infused through a separate line. If infused through a multiple-lumen catheter, 
TPN needs to be administered using a different port from the one used for VFEND. VFEND must not be 
diluted with 4.2% Sodium Bicarbonate Infusion. Compatibility with other concentrations is unknown.  
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in section 
6.6.  
6.3  Shelf life  
3 years  
From a microbiological point of view, once reconstituted, the product must be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and would 
normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C (in a refrigerator), unless reconstitution has taken place 
in controlled and validated aseptic conditions.  
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
The unreconstituted vial does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
30 ml clear Type I glass vial with rubber stopper and aluminium cap with plastic seal.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
The powder is reconstituted with either 19 ml of water for injections or 19 ml of 9 mg/ml (0.9%) Sodium 
Chloride for Infusion to obtain an extractable volume of 20 ml of clear concentrate containing 10 mg/ml of 
voriconazole. Discard the VFEND vial if vacuum does not pull the diluent into the vial. It is recommended 
that a standard 20 ml (non-automated) syringe be used to ensure that the exact amount (19.0 ml) of water for 
injections or (9 mg/ml [0.9%]) Sodium Chloride for Infusion is dispensed. This medicinal product is for 
single use only and any unused solution should be discarded. Only clear solutions without particles should be 
used.  
For administration, the required volume of the reconstituted concentrate is added to a recommended 
compatible infusion solution (detailed in the table below) to obtain a final voriconazole solution containing 
0.5-5 mg/ml.  
The reconstituted solution can be diluted with:  
Sodium Chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) Solution for Injection 
Compound Sodium Lactate Intravenous Infusion 
5% Glucose and Lactated Ringer’s Intravenous Infusion  
5% Glucose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Intravenous Infusion  
5% Glucose Intravenous Infusion  
5% Glucose in 20 mEq Potassium Chloride Intravenous Infusion  
0.45% Sodium Chloride Intravenous Infusion  
5% Glucose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Intravenous Infusion  
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The compatibility of voriconazole with diluents other than described above or in section 6.2 is unknown.  
Required Volumes of 10 mg/ml VFEND Concentrate  
Body 
Weight 
(kg)  
10  
15  
20  
25  
30  
35  
40  
45  
50  
55  
60  
65  
70  
75  
80  
85  
90  
95  
100  
3 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials)  
- 
- 
- 
- 
9.0 ml (1)  
10.5 ml (1)  
12.0 ml (1)  
13.5 ml (1)  
15.0 ml (1)  
16.5 ml (1)  
18.0 ml (1)  
19.5 ml (1)  
21.0 ml (2)  
22.5 ml (2)  
24.0 ml (2)  
25.5 ml (2)  
27.0 ml (2)  
28.5 ml (2)  
30.0 ml (2)  
Volume of VFEND Concentrate (10 mg/ml) required for: 
6 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials)  
- 
- 
- 
- 
18.0 ml (1)  
21.0 ml (2)  
24.0 ml (2)  
27.0 ml (2)  
30.0 ml (2)  
33.0 ml (2)  
36.0 ml (2)  
39.0 ml (2)  
42.0 ml (3)  
45.0 ml (3)  
48.0 ml (3)  
51.0 ml (3)  
54.0 ml (3)  
57.0 ml (3)  
60.0 ml (3)  
8 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials)  
8.0 ml (1)  
12.0 ml (1)  
16.0 ml (1)  
20.0 ml (1)  
24.0 ml (2)  
28.0 ml (2)  
32.0 ml (2)  
36.0 ml (2)  
40.0 ml (2)  
44.0 ml (3) 
48.0 ml (3) 
52.0 ml (3) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials)  
4.0 ml (1)  
6.0 ml (1)  
8.0 ml (1)  
10.0 ml (1)  
12.0 ml (1)  
14.0 ml (1)  
16.0 ml (1)  
18.0 ml (1)  
20.0 ml (1)  
22.0 ml (2)  
24.0 ml (2)  
26.0 ml (2)  
28.0 ml (2)  
30.0 ml (2)  
32.0 ml (2)  
34.0 ml (2)  
36.0 ml (2)  
38.0 ml (2)  
40.0 ml (2)  
9 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials) 
9.0 ml (1)  
13.5 ml (1)  
18.0 ml (1)  
22.5 ml (2)  
27.0 ml (2)  
31.5 ml (2)  
36.0 ml (2)  
40.5 ml (3)  
45.0 ml (3)  
49.5 ml (3)  
54.0 ml (3)  
58.5 ml (3)  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Further information is provided for medical or healthcare professionals at the end of the Package Leaflet. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/02/212/025  
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 19 March 2002  
Date of latest renewal: 21 February 2012  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency. 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
VFEND 40 mg/ml powder for oral suspension  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each ml of oral suspension contains 40 mg of voriconazole when reconstituted with water.  
Each bottle contains 3 g of voriconazole.  
Excipients with known effect 
Each ml of suspension contains 0.54 g sucrose.  
Each ml of suspension contains 2.40 mg sodium benzoate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Powder for oral suspension. 
White to off-white powder.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
VFEND, is a broad-spectrum, triazole antifungal agent and is indicated in adults and children aged 2 years 
and above as follows: 
Treatment of invasive aspergillosis 
Treatment of candidaemia in non-neutropenic patients. 
Treatment of fluconazole-resistant serious invasive Candida infections (including C. krusei). 
Treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium spp. and Fusarium spp. 
VFEND should be administered primarily to patients with progressive, possibly life-threatening infections. 
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in high risk allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) 
recipients.  
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Posology 
Electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia and hypocalcaemia should be monitored 
and corrected, if necessary, prior to initiation and during voriconazole therapy (see section 4.4).  
VFEND is also available as 50 mg and 200 mg film-coated tablets and 200 mg powder for solution for 
infusion.  
Treatment 
Adults  
Therapy must be initiated with the specified loading dose regimen of either intravenous or oral VFEND to 
achieve plasma concentrations on Day 1 that are close to steady state. On the basis of the high oral 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bioavailability (96%; see section 5.2), switching between intravenous and oral administration is appropriate 
when clinically indicated.  
Detailed information on dosage recommendations is provided in the following table:  
Intravenous  
Oral Suspension  
Patients 40 kg and 
above* 
Patients less than 40 kg* 
Loading dose  
regimen  
(first 24 hours)  
Maintenance dose  
(after first 24 hours)  
6 mg/kg every 12 hours  
400 mg (10 ml) every 
12 hours  
200 mg (5 ml) every 
12 hours  
4 mg/kg twice daily 
200 mg (5 ml) twice 
daily 
100 mg (2.5 ml) twice 
daily 
* This also applies to patients aged 15 years and older 
Duration of treatment  
Treatment duration should be as short as possible depending on the patient’s clinical and mycological 
response. Long term exposure to voriconazole greater than 180 days (6 months) requires careful assessment 
of the benefit-risk balance (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Dosage adjustment (Adults) 
If patient response to treatment is inadequate, the maintenance dose may be increased to 300 mg twice daily 
for oral administration. For patients less than 40 kg the oral dose may be increased to 150 mg twice daily.  
If patient is unable to tolerate treatment at a higher dose, reduce the oral dose by 50 mg steps to the 200 mg 
twice daily (or 100 mg twice daily for patients less than 40 kg) maintenance dose.  
In case of use as prophylaxis, refer below. 
Children (2 to <12 years) and young adolescents with low body weight (12 to 14 years and <50 kg) 
Voriconazole should be dosed as children as these young adolescents may metabolise voriconazole more 
similarly to children than to adults. 
The recommended dosing regimen is as follows: 
Loading Dose Regimen 
(first 24 hours) 
Maintenance Dose 
(after first 24 hours) 
Intravenous  
9 mg/kg every 12 hours 
Oral 
Not recommended 
8 mg/kg twice daily  
9 mg/kg twice daily  
(a maximum dose of 350 mg twice 
daily) 
Note:  Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 112 immunocompromised paediatric patients aged 
2 to <12 years and 26 immunocompromised adolescents aged 12 to <17 years.  
It is recommended to initiate the therapy with intravenous regimen, and oral regimen should be considered 
only after there is a significant clinical improvement. It should be noted that an 8 mg/kg intravenous dose 
will provide voriconazole exposure approximately 2-fold higher than a 9 mg/kg oral dose. 
These oral dose recommendations for children are based on studies in which voriconazole was administered 
as the powder for oral suspension. Bioequivalence between the powder for oral suspension and tablets has 
not been investigated in a paediatric population. Considering the assumed limited gastro-enteric transit time 
in paediatric patients, the absorption of tablets may be different in paediatric compared to adult patients. It is 
therefore recommended to use the oral suspension formulation in children aged 2 to <12.  
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All other adolescents (12 to 14 years and ≥50 kg; 15 to 17 years regardless of body weight) 
Voriconazole should be dosed as adults. 
Dosage adjustment (Children [2 to <12 years] and young adolescents with low body weight [12 to 14 years 
and <50 kg]) 
If patient response to treatment is inadequate, the dose may be increased by 1 mg/kg steps (or by 50 mg steps 
if the maximum oral dose of 350 mg was used initially). If patient is unable to tolerate treatment, reduce the 
dose by 1 mg/kg steps (or by 50 mg steps if the maximum oral dose of 350 mg was used initially). 
Use in paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years with hepatic or renal insufficiency has not been studied (see 
sections 4.8 and 5.2). 
Prophylaxis in Adults and Children 
Prophylaxis should be initiated on the day of transplant and may be administered for up to 100 days. 
Prophylaxis should be as short as possible depending on the risk for developing invasive fungal infection 
(IFI) as defined by neutropenia or immunosuppression. It may only be continued up to 180 days after 
transplantation in case of continuing immunosuppression or graft versus host disease (GvHD) (see section 
5.1).  
Dosage  
The recommended dosing regimen for prophylaxis is the same as for treatment in the respective age groups. 
Please refer to the treatment tables above. 
Duration of prophylaxis 
The safety and efficacy of voriconazole use for longer than 180 days has not been adequately studied in 
clinical trials. 
Use of voriconazole in prophylaxis for greater than 180 days (6 months) requires careful assessment of the 
benefit-risk balance (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The following instructions apply to both Treatment and Prophylaxis 
Dosage adjustment 
For prophylaxis use, dose adjustments are not recommended in the case of lack of efficacy or 
treatment-related adverse events. In the case of treatment-related adverse events, discontinuation of 
voriconazole and use of alternative antifungal agents must be considered (see sections 4.4 and 4.8) 
Dosage adjustments in case of coadministration 
Phenytoin may be coadministered with voriconazole if the maintenance dose of voriconazole is increased 
from 200 mg to 400 mg orally, twice daily (100 mg to 200 mg orally, twice daily in patients less than 40 kg), 
see sections 4.4 and 4.5.  
The combination of voriconazole with rifabutin should, if possible be avoided. However, if the combination 
is strictly needed, the maintenance dose of voriconazole may be increased from 200 mg to 350 mg orally, 
twice daily (100 mg to 200 mg orally, twice daily in patients less than 40 kg), see sections 4.4 and 4.5.  
Efavirenz may be coadministered with voriconazole if the maintenance dose of voriconazole is increased to 
400 mg every 12 hours and the efavirenz dose is reduced by 50%, i.e. to 300 mg once daily. When treatment 
with voriconazole is stopped, the initial dosage of efavirenz should be restored (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).  
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is necessary for elderly patients (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of orally administered voriconazole are not affected by renal impairment. Therefore, 
no adjustment is necessary for oral dosing for patients with mild to severe renal impairment (see section 5.2).  
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Voriconazole is haemodialysed with a clearance of 121 ml/min. A 4-hour haemodialysis session does not 
remove a sufficient amount of voriconazole to warrant dose adjustment. 
Hepatic impairment 
It is recommended that the standard loading dose regimens be used but that the maintenance dose be halved 
in patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A and B) receiving voriconazole (see 
section 5.2).  
Voriconazole has not been studied in patients with severe chronic hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh C).  
There is limited data on the safety of VFEND in patients with abnormal liver function tests (aspartate 
transaminase [AST], alanine transaminase [ALT], alkaline phosphatase [ALP], or total bilirubin >5 times the 
upper limit of normal). 
Voriconazole has been associated with elevations in liver function tests and clinical signs of liver damage, 
such as jaundice, and must only be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment if the benefit outweighs 
the potential risk. Patients with severe hepatic impairment must be carefully monitored for drug toxicity (see 
section 4.8).  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of VFEND in children below 2 years has not been established. Currently available 
data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology can be made.  
Method of administration 
VFEND oral suspension is to be taken at least one hour before, or two hours following, a meal. 
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Coadministration with CYP3A4 substrates, terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine or 
ivabradine since increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products can lead to QTc prolongation 
and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration with rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital and St John’s Wort since these medicinal 
products are likely to decrease plasma voriconazole concentrations significantly (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration of standard doses of voriconazole with efavirenz doses of 400 mg once daily or higher is 
contraindicated, because efavirenz significantly decreases plasma voriconazole concentrations in healthy 
subjects at these doses. Voriconazole also significantly increases efavirenz plasma concentrations (see 
section 4.5, for lower doses see section 4.4). 
Coadministration with high-dose ritonavir (400 mg and above twice daily) because ritonavir significantly 
decreases plasma voriconazole concentrations in healthy subjects at this dose (see section 4.5, for lower 
doses see section 4.4).  
Coadministration with ergot alkaloids (ergotamine, dihydroergotamine), which are CYP3A4 substrates, since 
increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products can lead to ergotism (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration with sirolimus since voriconazole is likely to increase plasma concentrations of sirolimus 
significantly (see section 4.5).  
Coadministration of voriconazole with naloxegol, a CYP3A4 substrate, since increased plasma 
concentrations of naloxegol can precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms (see section 4.5). 
Coadministration of voriconazole with tolvaptan since strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as voriconazole 
significantly increase plasma concentrations of tolvaptan (see section 4.5). 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coadministration of voriconazole with lurasidone since significant increases in lurasidone exposure have the 
potential for serious adverse reactions (see section 4.5). 
Coadministration with venetoclax at initiation and during venetoclax dose titration phase since voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase plasma concentrations of venetoclax and increase risk of tumour lysis 
syndrome (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Hypersensitivity 
Caution should be used in prescribing VFEND to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles (see also 
section 4.8).  
Cardiovascular 
Voriconazole has been associated with QTc interval prolongation. There have been rare cases of torsades de 
pointes in patients taking voriconazole who had risk factors, such as history of cardiotoxic chemotherapy, 
cardiomyopathy, hypokalaemia and concomitant medicinal products that may have been contributory. 
Voriconazole should be administered with caution to patients with potentially proarrhythmic conditions, 
such as:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation.  
Cardiomyopathy, in particular when heart failure is present.  
Sinus bradycardia.  
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias.  
Concomitant medicinal product that is known to prolong QTc interval. Electrolyte disturbances such 
as hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia and hypocalcaemia should be monitored and corrected, if 
necessary, prior to initiation and during voriconazole therapy (see section 4.2). A study has been 
conducted in healthy volunteers which examined the effect on QTc interval of single doses of 
voriconazole up to 4 times the usual daily dose. No subject experienced an interval exceeding the 
potentially clinically-relevant threshold of 500 msec (see section 5.1).  
Hepatic toxicity 
In clinical trials, there have been cases of serious hepatic reactions during treatment with voriconazole 
(including clinical hepatitis, cholestasis and fulminant hepatic failure, including fatalities). Instances of 
hepatic reactions were noted to occur primarily in patients with serious underlying medical conditions 
(predominantly haematological malignancy). Transient hepatic reactions, including hepatitis and jaundice, 
have occurred among patients with no other identifiable risk factors. Liver dysfunction has usually been 
reversible on discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.8).  
Monitoring of hepatic function 
Patients receiving VFEND must be carefully monitored for hepatic toxicity. Clinical management should 
include laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (specifically AST and ALT) at the initiation of treatment 
with VFEND and at least weekly for the first month of treatment. Treatment duration should be as short as 
possible; however, if based on the benefit-risk assessment the treatment is continued (see section 4.2), 
monitoring frequency can be reduced to monthly if there are no changes in the liver function tests.  
If the liver function tests become markedly elevated, VFEND should be discontinued, unless the medical 
judgment of the risk-benefit of the treatment for the patient justifies continued use.  
Monitoring of hepatic function should be carried out in both children and adults. 
Serious dermatological adverse reactions 
•  Phototoxicity 
In addition VFEND has been associated with phototoxicity including reactions such as ephelides, 
lentigo, actinic keratosis and pseudoporphyria. There is a potential increased risk of skin 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reactions/toxicity with concomitant use of photosensitising agents (e.g., methotrexate, etc). It is 
recommended that all patients, including children, avoid exposure to direct sunlight during VFEND 
treatment and use measures such as protective clothing and sunscreen with high sun protection factor 
(SPF). 
•  Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (SCC) 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (including cutaneous SCC in situ, or Bowen’s disease) has 
been reported in patients, some of whom have reported prior phototoxic reactions. If phototoxic 
reactions occur multidisciplinary advice should be sought, VFEND discontinuation and use of 
alternative antifungal agents should be considered and the patient should be referred to a 
dermatologist. If VFEND is continued, however, dermatologic evaluation should be performed on a 
systematic and regular basis, to allow early detection and management of premalignant lesions. 
VFEND should be discontinued if premalignant skin lesions or squamous cell carcinoma are 
identified (see below the section under Long-term treatment). 
•  Severe cutaneous adverse reactions 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), 
which can be life-threatening or fatal, have been reported with the use of voriconazole. If a patient 
develops a rash he should be monitored closely and VFEND discontinued if lesions progress. 
Adrenal events 
Reversible cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported in patients receiving azoles, including 
voriconazole. Adrenal insufficiency has been reported in patients receiving azoles with or without 
concomitant corticosteroids. In patients receiving azoles without corticosteroids, adrenal insufficiency is 
related to direct inhibition of steroidogenesis by azoles. In patients taking corticosteroids, voriconazole 
associated CYP3A4 inhibition of their metabolism may lead to corticosteroid excess and adrenal suppression 
(see section 4.5). Cushing’s syndrome with and without subsequent adrenal insufficiency has also been 
reported in patients receiving voriconazole concomitantly with corticosteroids. 
Patients on long-term treatment with voriconazole and corticosteroids (including inhaled corticosteroids e.g., 
budesonide and intranasal corticosteroids) should be carefully monitored for adrenal cortex dysfunction both 
during treatment and when voriconazole is discontinued (see section 4.5). Patients should be instructed to 
seek immediate medical care if they develop signs and symptoms of Cushing’s syndrome or adrenal 
insufficiency. 
Long-term treatment 
Long term exposure (treatment or prophylaxis) greater than 180 days (6 months) requires careful assessment 
of the benefit-risk balance and physicians should therefore consider the need to limit the exposure to VFEND 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (SCC) (including cutaneous SCC in situ, or Bowen’s disease) has been 
reported in relation with long-term VFEND treatment (see section 4.8). 
Non-infectious periostitis with elevated fluoride and alkaline phosphatase levels has been reported in 
transplant patients. If a patient develops skeletal pain and radiologic findings compatible with periostitis 
VFEND discontinuation should be considered after multidisciplinary advice (see section 4.8). 
Visual adverse reactions 
There have been reports of prolonged visual adverse reactions, including blurred vision, optic neuritis and 
papilloedema (see section 4.8). 
Renal adverse reactions 
Acute renal failure has been observed in severely ill patients undergoing treatment with VFEND. Patients 
being treated with voriconazole are likely to be treated concomitantly with nephrotoxic medicinal products 
and have concurrent conditions that may result in decreased renal function (see section 4.8). 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring of renal function 
Patients should be monitored for the development of abnormal renal function. This should include laboratory 
evaluation, particularly serum creatinine.  
Monitoring of pancreatic function 
Patients, especially children, with risk factors for acute pancreatitis (e.g., recent chemotherapy, 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation [HSCT]), should be monitored closely during VFEND treatment. 
Monitoring of serum amylase or lipase may be considered in this clinical situation.  
Paediatric population 
Safety and effectiveness in paediatric subjects below the age of two years has not been established (see 
sections 4.8 and 5.1). Voriconazole is indicated for paediatric patients aged two years or older. A higher 
frequency of liver enzyme elevations was observed in the paediatric population (see section 4.8). Hepatic 
function should be monitored in both children and adults. Oral bioavailability may be limited in paediatric 
patients aged 2 to <12 years with malabsorption and very low body weight for age. In that case, intravenous 
voriconazole administration is recommended.  
•  Serious dermatological adverse reactions (including SCC) 
The frequency of phototoxicity reactions is higher in the paediatric population. As an evolution 
towards SCC has been reported, stringent measures for the photoprotection are warranted in this 
population of patients. In children experiencing photoaging injuries such as lentigines or ephelides, 
sun avoidance and dermatologic follow-up are recommended even after treatment discontinuation. 
Prophylaxis 
In case of treatment-related adverse events (hepatotoxicity, severe skin reactions including phototoxicity and 
SCC, severe or prolonged visual disorders and periostitis), discontinuation of voriconazole and use of 
alternative antifungal agents must be considered. 
Phenytoin (CYP2C9 substrate and potent CYP450 inducer) 
Careful monitoring of phenytoin levels is recommended when phenytoin is coadministered with 
voriconazole. Concomitant use of voriconazole and phenytoin should be avoided unless the benefit 
outweighs the risk (see section 4.5).  
Efavirenz (CYP450 inducer; CYP3A4 inhibitor and substrate) 
When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz the dose of voriconazole should be increased to 400 mg 
every 12 hours and the dose of efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours (see sections 4.2, 4.3 
and 4.5). 
Glasdegib (CYP3A4 substrate)  
Coadministration of voriconazole is expected to increase glasdegib plasma concentrations and increase the 
risk of QTc prolongation (see section 4.5). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, frequent ECG monitoring 
is recommended. 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (CYP3A4 substrate)  
Coadministration of voriconazole with tyrosine kinase inhibitors metabolised by CYP3A4 is expected to 
increase tyrosine kinase inhibitor plasma concentrations and the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use 
cannot be avoided, dose reduction of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor and close clinical monitoring is 
recommended (see section 4.5). 
Rifabutin (potent CYP450 inducer) 
Careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions to rifabutin (e.g., uveitis) is recommended 
when rifabutin is coadministered with voriconazole. Concomitant use of voriconazole and rifabutin should 
be avoided unless the benefit outweighs the risk (see section 4.5).  
Ritonavir (potent CYP450 inducer; CYP3A4 inhibitor and substrate) 
Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg twice daily) should be avoided unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole (see sections 4.3 and 4.5).  
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Everolimus (CYP3A4 substrate, P-gp substrate) 
Coadministration of voriconazole with everolimus is not recommended because voriconazole is expected to 
significantly increase everolimus concentrations. Currently there are insufficient data to allow dosing 
recommendations in this situation (see section 4.5). 
Methadone (CYP3A4 substrate) 
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to methadone, including QTc prolongation, is 
recommended when coadministered with voriconazole since methadone levels increased following 
coadministration of voriconazole. Dose reduction of methadone may be needed (see section 4.5).  
Short-acting opiates (CYP3A4 substrate) 
Reduction in the dose of alfentanil, fentanyl and other short-acting opiates similar in structure to alfentanil 
and metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g., sufentanil) should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole 
(see section 4.5). As the half-life of alfentanil is prolonged in a 4-fold manner when alfentanil is 
coadministered with voriconazole, and in an independent published study concomitant use of voriconazole 
with fentanyl resulted in an increase in the mean AUC0-∞ of fentanyl, frequent monitoring for 
opiate-associated adverse reactions (including a longer respiratory monitoring period) may be necessary.  
Long-acting opiates (CYP3A4 substrate) 
Reduction in the dose of oxycodone and other long-acting opiates metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g., 
hydrocodone) should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole. Frequent monitoring for 
opiate-associated adverse reactions may be necessary (see section 4.5). 
Fluconazole (CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 inhibitor) 
Coadministration of oral voriconazole and oral fluconazole resulted in a significant increase in Cmax and 
AUCτ of voriconazole in healthy subjects. The reduced dose and/or frequency of voriconazole and 
fluconazole that would eliminate this effect have not been established. Monitoring for 
voriconazole-associated adverse reactions is recommended if voriconazole is used sequentially after 
fluconazole (see section 4.5).  
Excipients 
Sucrose 
This medicinal product contains 0.54 g sucrose per ml. This should be taken into account in patients with 
diabetes mellitus. Patients with rare hereditary problems of fructose intolerance, glucose-galactose 
malabsorption or sucrase-isomaltase insufficiency should not take this medicine. May be harmful to the 
teeth. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 5 ml of suspension. Patients on low 
sodium diets should be informed that this medicinal product is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Voriconazole is metabolised by, and inhibits the activity of, cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, CYP2C19, 
CYP2C9, and CYP3A4. Inhibitors or inducers of these isoenzymes may increase or decrease voriconazole 
plasma concentrations, respectively, and there is potential for voriconazole to increase the plasma 
concentrations of substances metabolised by these CYP450 isoenzymes, in particular for substances 
metabolised by CYP3A4 since voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor though the increase in AUC is 
substrate dependent (see Table below). 
Unless otherwise specified, drug interaction studies have been performed in healthy adult male subjects 
using multiple dosing to steady state with oral voriconazole at 200 mg twice daily (BID). These results are 
relevant to other populations and routes of administration.  
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Voriconazole should be administered with caution in patients with concomitant medication that is known to 
prolong QTc interval. When there is also a potential for voriconazole to increase the plasma concentrations 
of substances metabolised by CYP3A4 isoenzymes (certain antihistamines, quinidine, cisapride, pimozide 
and ivabradine), coadministration is contraindicated (see below and section 4.3). 
Interaction table 
Interactions between voriconazole and other medicinal products are listed in the table below (once daily as 
“QD”, twice daily as “BID”, three times daily as “TID” and not determined as “ND”). The direction of the 
arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean 
ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) the 80-125% range. The asterisk (*) indicates a two-way 
interaction. AUC, AUCt and AUC0- represent area under the curve over a dosing interval, from time zero to 
the time with detectable measurement and from time zero to infinity, respectively. 
The interactions in the table are presented in the following order: contraindications, those requiring dose 
adjustment and careful clinical and/or biological monitoring, and finally those that have no significant 
pharmacokinetic interaction but may be of clinical interest in this therapeutic field. 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, 
quinidine, terfenadine and 
ivabradine 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Carbamazepine and long-acting 
barbiturates (including but not 
limited to: phenobarbital, 
mephobarbital)  
[potent CYP450 inducers] 
Efavirenz (a non-nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitor) 
[CYP450 inducer; CYP3A4 
inhibitor and substrate] 
Efavirenz 400 mg QD, 
coadministered with 
voriconazole 200 mg BID* 
Efavirenz 300 mg QD, 
coadministered with 
voriconazole 400 mg BID* 
Although not studied, increased 
plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products can lead to QTc 
prolongation and rare occurrences 
of torsades de pointes. 
Although not studied, 
carbamazepine and long-acting 
barbiturates are likely to 
significantly decrease plasma 
voriconazole concentrations. 
Efavirenz Cmax  38% 
Efavirenz AUC  44% 
Voriconazole Cmax  61% 
Voriconazole AUC  77% 
Compared to efavirenz 600 mg QD, 
Efavirenz Cmax ↔ 
Efavirenz AUC  17% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  23% 
Voriconazole AUC  7% 
Ergot alkaloids (including but not 
limited to: ergotamine and 
dihydroergotamine) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of ergot alkaloids 
and lead to ergotism. 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Use of standard doses of 
voriconazole with efavirenz 
doses of 400 mg QD or higher 
is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).  
Voriconazole may be 
coadministered with efavirenz 
if the voriconazole 
maintenance dose is increased 
to 400 mg BID and the 
efavirenz dose is decreased to 
300 mg QD. When 
voriconazole treatment is 
stopped, the initial dose of 
efavirenz should be restored 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Lurasidone  
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Naloxegol 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Rifabutin  
[potent CYP450 inducer] 
300 mg QD  
300 mg QD (coadministered with 
voriconazole 350 mg BID)* 
300 mg QD (coadministered with 
voriconazole 400 mg BID)* 
Although not studied, 
voriconazole is likely to 
significantly increase the plasma 
concentrations of lurasidone. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of naloxegol. 
Voriconazole Cmax  69% 
Voriconazole AUC  78% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  4% 
Voriconazole AUC  32%  
Rifabutin Cmax  195% 
Rifabutin AUC  331% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  104% 
Voriconazole AUC  87%  
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Concomitant use of 
voriconazole and rifabutin 
should be avoided unless the 
benefit outweighs the risk. 
The maintenance dose of 
voriconazole may be increased 
to 5 mg/kg intravenously BID 
or from 200 mg to 350 mg 
orally BID (100 mg to 200 mg 
orally BID in patients less than 
40 kg) (see section 4.2).  
Careful monitoring of full 
blood counts and adverse 
reactions to rifabutin (e.g., 
uveitis) is recommended when 
rifabutin is coadministered 
with voriconazole. 
Rifampicin (600 mg QD) 
[potent CYP450 inducer] 
Ritonavir (protease inhibitor)  
[potent CYP450 inducer; 
CYP3A4 inhibitor and substrate] 
High dose (400 mg BID) 
 Low dose (100 mg BID)* 
St. John’s Wort  
[CYP450 inducer; P-gp inducer] 
300 mg TID (coadministered 
with voriconazole 400 mg single 
dose) 
Tolvaptan  
[CYP3A substrate] 
Voriconazole Cmax  93% 
Voriconazole AUC  96% 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Ritonavir Cmax and AUC ↔ 
Voriconazole Cmax  66% 
Voriconazole AUC  82% 
Ritonavir Cmax  25% 
Ritonavir AUC 13% 
Voriconazole Cmax  24% 
Voriconazole AUC  39% 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and high doses of 
ritonavir (400 mg and above 
BID) is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and low-dose 
ritonavir (100 mg BID) should 
be avoided unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk 
to the patient justifies the use 
of voriconazole. 
In an independent published study,  
Voriconazole AUC0-  59% 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of tolvaptan. 
Contraindicated (see section 
4.3) 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Venetoclax  
[CYP3A substrate] 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of 
venetoclax. 
Fluconazole (200 mg QD) 
[CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and 
CYP3A4 inhibitor] 
Voriconazole Cmax  57% 
Voriconazole AUC  79% 
Fluconazole Cmax ND 
Fluconazole AUC ND 
Phenytoin  
[CYP2C9 substrate and potent 
CYP450 inducer] 
300 mg QD 
300 mg QD (coadministered with 
voriconazole 400 mg BID)* 
Voriconazole Cmax  49% 
Voriconazole AUC  69% 
Phenytoin Cmax  67% 
Phenytoin AUC  81% 
Compared to voriconazole 200 mg 
BID, 
Voriconazole Cmax  34% 
Voriconazole AUC  39% 
Letermovir  
[CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 
inducer] 
Voriconazole Cmax ↓ 39% 
Voriconazole AUC0-12 ↓ 44% 
Voriconazole C12 ↓ 51%  
Flucloxacillin 
[CYP450 inducer] 
Significantly decreased plasma 
voriconazole concentrations have 
been reported. 
75 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Concomitant administration of 
voriconazole is 
contraindicated at initiation 
and during venetoclax dose 
titration phase (see section 
4.3). Dose reduction of 
venetoclax is required as 
instructed in venetoclax 
prescribing information during 
steady daily dosing; close 
monitoring for signs of 
toxicity is recommended. 
The reduced dose and/or 
frequency of voriconazole and 
fluconazole that would 
eliminate this effect have not 
been established. Monitoring 
for voriconazole-associated 
adverse reactions is 
recommended if voriconazole 
is used sequentially after 
fluconazole. 
Concomitant use of 
voriconazole and phenytoin 
should be avoided unless the 
benefit outweighs the risk. 
Careful monitoring of 
phenytoin plasma levels is 
recommended.  
Phenytoin may be 
coadministered with 
voriconazole if the 
maintenance dose of 
voriconazole is increased to 
5 mg/kg IV BID or from 
200 mg to 400 mg oral BID 
(100 mg to 200 mg oral BID in 
patients less than 40 kg) (see 
section 4.2).  
If concomitant administration 
of voriconazole with 
letermovir cannot be avoided, 
monitor for loss of 
voriconazole effectiveness. 
If concomitant administration 
of voriconazole with 
flucloxacillin cannot be 
avoided, monitor for potential 
loss of voriconazole 
effectiveness (e.g., by 
therapeutic drug monitoring); 
increasing the dose of 
voriconazole may be needed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
If concomitant use cannot be 
avoided, frequent ECG 
monitoring is recommended 
(see section 4.4). 
If concomitant use cannot be 
avoided, dose reduction of the 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor and 
close clinical monitoring is 
recommended (see section 
4.4). 
Close monitoring of 
prothrombin time or other 
suitable anticoagulation tests is 
recommended, and the dose of 
anticoagulants should be 
adjusted accordingly.  
Dose reduction of ivacaftor is 
recommended. 
Dose reduction of 
benzodiazepines should be 
considered.  
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Glasdegib 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
(including but not limited to: 
axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, 
ceritinib, cobimetinib, 
dabrafenib, dasatinib, nilotinib, 
sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Anticoagulants 
Warfarin (30 mg single dose, 
coadministered with 300 mg BID 
voriconazole) 
[CYP2C9 substrate] 
Other oral coumarins 
(including but not limited 
to: phenprocoumon, 
acenocoumarol) 
[CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 
substrates] 
Ivacaftor 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Benzodiazepines  
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of glasdegib and 
increase risk of QTc prolongation. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
may increase plasma concentrations 
of tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
metabolised by CYP3A4. 
Maximum increase in prothrombin 
time was approximately 2-fold. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
may increase the plasma 
concentrations of coumarins that 
may cause an increase in 
prothrombin time. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of ivacaftor with risk 
of increased adverse reactions. 
Midazolam (0.05 mg/kg IV 
single dose) 
In an independent published study,  
Midazolam AUC0-  3.7-fold 
Midazolam (7.5 mg oral 
single dose) 
Other benzodiazepines 
(including but not limited to: 
triazolam, alprazolam) 
In an independent published study,  
Midazolam Cmax  3.8-fold 
Midazolam AUC0-  10.3-fold 
Although not studied , voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of other 
benzodiazepines that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4 and lead 
to a prolonged sedative effect. 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Immunosuppressants 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Sirolimus (2 mg single dose) 
Everolimus 
[also P-gp substrate] 
In an independent published study, 
Sirolimus Cmax  6.6-fold 
Sirolimus AUC0-  11-fold 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to significantly increase the 
plasma concentrations of 
everolimus. 
Ciclosporin (in stable renal 
transplant recipients receiving 
chronic ciclosporin therapy) 
Ciclosporin Cmax  13% 
Ciclosporin AUC  70% 
Tacrolimus (0.1 mg/kg single 
dose) 
Tacrolimus Cmax  117% 
Tacrolimus AUCt  221% 
Long-Acting Opiates 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Oxycodone (10 mg single dose) 
In an independent published study, 
Oxycodone Cmax  1.7-fold 
Oxycodone AUC0-  3.6-fold 
77 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and sirolimus is 
contraindicated (see section 
4.3). 
Coadministration of 
voriconazole and everolimus is 
not recommended because 
voriconazole is expected to 
significantly increase 
everolimus concentrations (see 
section 4.4). 
When initiating voriconazole 
in patients already on 
ciclosporin it is recommended 
that the ciclosporin dose be 
halved and ciclosporin level 
carefully monitored. Increased 
ciclosporin levels have been 
associated with nephrotoxicity. 
When voriconazole is 
discontinued, ciclosporin 
levels must be carefully 
monitored and the dose 
increased as necessary. 
When initiating voriconazole 
in patients already on 
tacrolimus, it is recommended 
that the tacrolimus dose be 
reduced to a third of the 
original dose and tacrolimus 
level carefully monitored. 
Increased tacrolimus levels 
have been associated with 
nephrotoxicity. When 
voriconazole is discontinued, 
tacrolimus levels must be 
carefully monitored and the 
dose increased as necessary. 
Dose reduction in oxycodone 
and other long-acting opiates 
metabolised by CYP3A4 
(e.g., hydrocodone) should be 
considered. Frequent 
monitoring for 
opiate-associated adverse 
reactions may be necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Methadone (32-100 mg QD) 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
R-methadone (active) Cmax  31% 
R-methadone (active) AUC  47% 
S-methadone Cmax  65% 
S-methadone AUC  103% 
Non-Steroidal Anti-
Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) 
[CYP2C9 substrates] 
Ibuprofen (400 mg single dose) 
Diclofenac (50 mg single dose) 
Omeprazole (40 mg QD)* 
[CYP2C19 inhibitor; CYP2C19 
and CYP3A4 substrate] 
Oral Contraceptives*  
[CYP3A4 substrate; CYP2C19 
inhibitor] 
Norethisterone/ethinylestradiol 
(1 mg/0.035 mg QD)  
Short-acting Opiates 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
S-Ibuprofen Cmax  20% 
S-Ibuprofen AUC0-  100% 
Diclofenac Cmax  114% 
Diclofenac AUC0-  78% 
Omeprazole Cmax  116% 
Omeprazole AUC  280% 
Voriconazole Cmax  15% 
Voriconazole AUC  41% 
Other proton pump inhibitors that 
are CYP2C19 substrates may also 
be inhibited by voriconazole and 
may result in increased plasma 
concentrations of these medicinal 
products. 
Ethinylestradiol Cmax  36% 
Ethinylestradiol AUC  61% 
Norethisterone Cmax  15% 
Norethisterone AUC  53% 
Voriconazole Cmax  14% 
Voriconazole AUC  46% 
Alfentanil (20 μg/kg single dose, 
with concomitant naloxone) 
In an independent published study, 
Alfentanil AUC0-  6-fold 
Fentanyl (5 g/kg single dose) 
Statins (e.g., lovastatin) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
In an independent published study, 
Fentanyl AUC0-  1.34-fold 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of statins that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4 and could 
lead to rhabdomyolysis.  
Sulfonylureas (including but not 
limited to: tolbutamide, glipizide, 
glyburide) 
[CYP2C9 substrates] 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of sulfonylureas and 
cause hypoglycaemia. 
78 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Frequent monitoring for 
adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to methadone, 
including QTc prolongation, is 
recommended. Dose reduction 
of methadone may be needed. 
Frequent monitoring for 
adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to NSAIDs is 
recommended. Dose reduction 
of NSAIDs may be needed. 
No dose adjustment of 
voriconazole is recommended.  
When initiating voriconazole 
in patients already receiving 
omeprazole doses of 40 mg or 
above, it is recommended that 
the omeprazole dose be 
halved.  
Monitoring for adverse 
reactions related to oral 
contraceptives, in addition to 
those for voriconazole, is 
recommended.  
Dose reduction of alfentanil, 
fentanyl and other short-acting 
opiates similar in structure to 
alfentanil and metabolised by 
CYP3A4 (e.g., sufentanil) 
should be considered. 
Extended and frequent 
monitoring for respiratory 
depression and other 
opiate-associated adverse 
reactions is recommended.  
If concomitant administration 
of voriconazole with statins 
metabolised by CYP3A4 
cannot be avoided, dose 
reduction of the statin should 
be considered.  
Careful monitoring of blood 
glucose is recommended. Dose 
reduction of sulfonylureas 
should be considered.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Dose reduction of vinca 
alkaloids should be 
considered. 
Careful monitoring for any 
occurrence of drug toxicity 
and/or lack of efficacy, and 
dose adjustment may be 
needed. 
Careful monitoring for any 
occurrence of drug toxicity 
and/or lack of efficacy, and 
dose adjustment may be 
needed. 
Dose adjustment of tretinoin is 
recommended during 
treatment with voriconazole 
and after its discontinuation. 
No dose adjustment  
No dose adjustment  
No dose adjustment  
Although not studied, voriconazole 
is likely to increase the plasma 
concentrations of vinca alkaloids 
and lead to neurotoxicity. 
Not studied clinically. In vitro 
studies show that voriconazole may 
inhibit the metabolism of HIV 
protease inhibitors and the 
metabolism of voriconazole may 
also be inhibited by HIV protease 
inhibitors. 
Not studied clinically. In vitro 
studies show that the metabolism of 
voriconazole may be inhibited by 
NNRTIs and voriconazole may 
inhibit the metabolism of NNRTIs.  
The findings of the effect of 
efavirenz on voriconazole suggest 
that the metabolism of voriconazole 
may be induced by an NNRTI. 
Although not studied, voriconazole 
may increase tretinoin 
concentrations and increase risk of 
adverse reactions (pseudotumor 
cerebri, hypercalcaemia). 
Voriconazole Cmax  18% 
Voriconazole AUC  23% 
Digoxin Cmax ↔ 
Digoxin AUC ↔ 
Indinavir Cmax ↔ 
Indinavir AUC ↔ 
Voriconazole Cmax ↔ 
Voriconazole AUC ↔ 
Vinca Alkaloids (including but 
not limited to: vincristine and 
vinblastine) 
[CYP3A4 substrates] 
Other HIV Protease Inhibitors 
(including but not limited to: 
saquinavir, amprenavir and 
nelfinavir)* 
[CYP3A4 substrates and 
inhibitors] 
Other Non-Nucleoside Reverse 
Transcriptase Inhibitors 
(NNRTIs) (including but not 
limited to: delavirdine, 
nevirapine)* 
[CYP3A4 substrates, inhibitors 
or CYP450 inducers] 
Tretinoin 
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Cimetidine (400 mg BID) 
[non-specific CYP450 inhibitor 
and increases gastric pH] 
Digoxin (0.25 mg QD) 
[P-gp substrate] 
Indinavir (800 mg TID) 
[CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
substrate] 
Macrolide antibiotics 
Erythromycin (1 g BID) 
[CYP3A4 inhibitor] 
Voriconazole Cmax and AUC ↔ 
No dose adjustment 
Azithromycin (500 mg QD) 
Voriconazole Cmax and AUC ↔ 
The effect of voriconazole on either 
erythromycin or azithromycin is 
unknown. 
Mycophenolic acid Cmax ↔ 
Mycophenolic acid AUCt ↔ 
No dose adjustment  
Mycophenolic acid (1 g single 
dose)  
[UDP-glucuronyl transferase 
substrate] 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product 
[Mechanism of interaction] 
Interaction 
Geometric mean changes (%) 
Recommendations 
concerning 
coadministration 
Corticosteroids 
Prednisolone (60 mg single dose)  
[CYP3A4 substrate] 
Prednisolone Cmax  11% 
Prednisolone AUC0-  34% 
Ranitidine (150 mg BID) 
[increases gastric pH] 
Voriconazole Cmax and AUC ↔ 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
No dose adjustment 
Patients on long-term 
treatment with voriconazole 
and corticosteroids (including 
inhaled corticosteroids e.g., 
budesonide and intranasal 
corticosteroids) should be 
carefully monitored for 
adrenal cortex dysfunction 
both during treatment and 
when voriconazole is 
discontinued (see section 4.4). 
No dose adjustment  
Pregnancy  
There are no adequate data on the use of VFEND in pregnant women available.  
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is 
unknown.  
VFEND must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential 
risk to the foetus.  
Women of child-bearing potential  
Women of child-bearing potential must always use effective contraception during treatment.  
Breast-feeding 
The excretion of voriconazole into breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on 
initiation of treatment with VFEND.  
Fertility 
In an animal study, no impairment of fertility was demonstrated in male and female rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
VFEND has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. It may cause transient and 
reversible changes to vision, including blurring, altered/enhanced visual perception and/or photophobia. 
Patients must avoid potentially hazardous tasks, such as driving or operating machinery while experiencing 
these symptoms.  
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of safety profile  
The safety profile of voriconazole in adults is based on an integrated safety database of more than 
2,000 subjects (including 1,603 adult patients in therapeutic trials) and an additional 270 adults in 
prophylaxis trials. This represents a heterogeneous population, containing patients with haematological 
malignancy, HIV-infected patients with oesophageal candidiasis and refractory fungal infections, 
non-neutropenic patients with candidaemia or aspergillosis and healthy volunteers.  
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions were visual impairment, pyrexia, rash, vomiting, nausea, 
diarrhoea, headache, peripheral oedema, liver function test abnormal, respiratory distress and abdominal 
pain. 
The severity of the adverse reactions was generally mild to moderate. No clinically significant differences 
were seen when the safety data were analysed by age, race, or gender.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
In the table below, since the majority of the studies were of an open nature, all causality adverse reactions 
and their frequency categories in 1,873 adults from pooled therapeutic (1,603) and prophylaxis (270) studies, 
by system organ class, are listed. 
Frequency categories are expressed as: Very common (1/10); Common (1/100 to 1/10); Uncommon 
(1/1,000 to 1/100); Rare (1/10,000 to 1/1,000); Very rare (1/10,000); Not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.  
Undesirable effects reported in subjects receiving voriconazole:  
System 
Organ Class 
Very common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000 
Frequenc
y 
not 
known 
(cannot be 
estimated 
from 
available 
data) 
Infections 
and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant 
and 
unspecified 
(including 
cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
sinusitis 
pseudomembrano
us colitis 
squamous cell 
carcinoma 
(including 
cutaneous SCC in 
situ, or Bowen’s 
disease)*,** 
agranulocytosis1, 
pancytopenia, 
thrombocytopenia2
, leukopenia, 
anaemia 
bone marrow 
failure, 
lymphadenopathy, 
eosinophilia 
disseminated 
intravascular 
coagulation 
hypersensitivity 
adrenal 
insufficiency, 
hypothyroidism 
anaphylactoid 
reaction 
hyperthyroidis
m 
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders 
oedema 
peripheral 
hypoglycaemia, 
hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
Organ Class 
Very common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000 
Frequenc
y 
not 
known 
(cannot be 
estimated 
from 
available 
data) 
hepatic 
encephalopathy
, Guillain-Barre 
syndrome, 
nystagmus 
optic atrophy, 
corneal opacity 
torsades de 
pointes, 
atrioventricular 
block complete, 
bundle branch 
block, nodal 
rhythm 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
headache 
Nervous 
system 
disorders  
depression, 
hallucination, 
anxiety, insomnia, 
agitation, 
confusional state 
convulsion, 
syncope, tremor, 
hypertonia3, 
paraesthesia, 
somnolence, 
dizziness 
Eye disorders   visual 
impairment6 
retinal 
haemorrhage 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
arrhythmia 
supraventricular, 
tachycardia, 
bradycardia 
Vascular 
disorders  
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestin
al disorders  
hypotension, 
phlebitis 
acute respiratory 
distress syndrome, 
pulmonary 
oedema 
cheilitis, 
dyspepsia, 
constipation, 
gingivitis 
respiratory 
distress9 
diarrhoea, 
vomiting, 
abdominal 
pain, nausea 
brain oedema, 
encephalopathy4, 
extrapyramidal 
disorder5, 
neuropathy 
peripheral, ataxia, 
hypoaesthesia, 
dysgeusia 
optic nerve 
disorder7, 
papilloedema8, 
oculogyric crisis, 
diplopia, scleritis, 
blepharitis 
hypoacusis, 
vertigo, tinnitus 
ventricular 
fibrillation, 
ventricular 
extrasystoles, 
ventricular 
tachycardia, 
electrocardiogram 
QT prolonged, 
supraventricular 
tachycardia 
thrombophlebitis, 
lymphangitis 
peritonitis, 
pancreatitis, 
swollen tongue, 
duodenitis, 
gastroenteritis, 
glossitis 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
Organ Class 
Very common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 
1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 
1/1,000 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
liver function 
test abnormal 
rash 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders  
jaundice, jaundice 
cholestatic, 
hepatitis10 
dermatitis 
exfoliative, 
alopecia, rash 
maculo-papular, 
pruritus, erythema, 
phototoxicity**  
hepatic failure, 
hepatomegaly, 
cholecystitis, 
cholelithiasis 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome8, 
purpura, urticaria, 
dermatitis allergic, 
rash papular, rash 
macular, eczema 
toxic epidermal 
necrolysis8, 
drug reaction 
with 
eosinophilia 
and systemic 
symptoms 
(DRESS)8, 
angioedema, 
actinic 
keratosis*, 
pseudoporphyri
a, erythema 
multiforme, 
psoriasis, drug 
eruption 
Frequenc
y 
not 
known 
(cannot be 
estimated 
from 
available 
data) 
cutaneous 
lupus 
erythemato
sus*, 
ephelides*
, lentigo* 
Musculoskele
tal and 
connective 
tissue 
disorders  
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders  
General 
disorders and 
administratio
n site 
conditions  
Investigations 
pyrexia 
back pain 
arthritis, 
periostitis*,** 
renal failure acute, 
haematuria 
chest pain, face 
oedema11, 
asthenia, chills 
blood creatinine 
increased 
renal tubular 
necrosis, 
proteinuria, 
nephritis 
infusion site 
reaction, influenza 
like illness 
blood urea 
increased, blood 
cholesterol 
increased 
*ADR identified post-marketing 
**Frequency category is based on an observational study utilising real-world data from secondary data sources in 
Sweden 
1 Includes febrile neutropenia and neutropenia. 
2 Includes immune thrombocytopenic purpura. 
3 Includes nuchal rigidity and tetany. 
4 Includes hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy and metabolic encephalopathy. 
5 Includes akathisia and parkinsonism. 
6 See “Visual impairments” paragraph in section 4.8. 
7 Prolonged optic neuritis has been reported post-marketing. See section 4.4. 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 See section 4.4. 
9 Includes dyspnoea and dyspnoea exertional. 
10 Includes drug-induced liver injury, hepatitis toxic, hepatocellular injury and hepatotoxicity. 
11 Includes periorbital oedema, lip oedema, and oedema mouth. 
Description of selected adverse reactions  
Altered taste perception  
In the combined data from three bioequivalence studies using the powder for oral suspension formulation, 
treatment-related taste perversion was recorded in 12 (14%) of subjects.  
Visual impairments  
In clinical trials, visual impairments (including blurred vision, photophobia, chloropsia, chromatopsia, colour 
blindness, cyanopsia, eye disorder, halo vision, night blindness, oscillopsia, photopsia, scintillating scotoma, 
visual acuity reduced, visual brightness, visual field defect, vitreous floaters, and xanthopsia) with 
voriconazole were very common. These visual impairments were transient and fully reversible, with the 
majority spontaneously resolving within 60 minutes and no clinically significant long-term visual effects 
were observed. There was evidence of attenuation with repeated doses of voriconazole. The visual 
impairments were generally mild, rarely resulted in discontinuation and were not associated with long-term 
sequelae. Visual impairments may be associated with higher plasma concentrations and/or doses. 
The mechanism of action is unknown, although the site of action is most likely to be within the retina. In a 
study in healthy volunteers investigating the impact of voriconazole on retinal function, voriconazole caused 
a decrease in the electroretinogram (ERG) waveform amplitude. The ERG measures electrical currents in the 
retina. The ERG changes did not progress over 29 days of treatment and were fully reversible on withdrawal 
of voriconazole.  
There have been post-marketing reports of prolonged visual adverse events (see section 4.4). 
Dermatological reactions  
Dermatological reactions were very common in patients treated with voriconazole in clinical trials, but these 
patients had serious underlying diseases and were receiving multiple concomitant medicinal products. The 
majority of rashes were of mild to moderate severity. Patients have developed severe cutaneous adverse 
reactions (SCARs), including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) (uncommon), toxic epidermal necrolysis 
(TEN) (rare), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) (rare) and erythema 
multiforme (rare) during treatment with VFEND (see section 4.4). 
If a patient develops a rash they should be monitored closely and VFEND discontinued if lesions progress. 
Photosensitivity reactions such as ephelides, lentigo and actinic keratosis have been reported, especially 
during long-term therapy (see section 4.4).  
There have been reports of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (including cutaneous SCC in situ, or 
Bowen’s disease) in patients treated with VFEND for long periods of time; the mechanism has not been 
established (see section 4.4). 
Liver function tests  
The overall incidence of transaminase increases >3 xULN (not necessarily comprising an adverse event) in 
the voriconazole clinical programme was 18.0% (319/1,768) in adults and 25.8% (73/283) in paediatric 
subjects who received voriconazole for pooled therapeutic and prophylaxis use. Liver function test 
abnormalities may be associated with higher plasma concentrations and/or doses. The majority of abnormal 
liver function tests either resolved during treatment without dose adjustment or following dose adjustment, 
including discontinuation of therapy.  
Voriconazole has been associated with cases of serious hepatic toxicity in patients with other serious 
underlying conditions. This includes cases of jaundice, hepatitis and hepatic failure leading to death (see 
section 4.4). 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Prophylaxis  
In an open-label, comparative, multicenter study comparing voriconazole and itraconazole as primary 
prophylaxis in adult and adolescent allogeneic HSCT recipients without prior proven or probable IFI, 
permanent discontinuation of voriconazole due to AEs was reported in 39.3% of subjects versus 39.6% of 
subjects in the itraconazole arm. Treatment-emergent hepatic AEs resulted in permanent discontinuation of 
study medication for 50 subjects (21.4%) treated with voriconazole and for 18 subjects (7.1%) treated with 
itraconazole.  
Paediatric population  
The safety of voriconazole was investigated in 288 paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years (169) and 12 to 
<18 years (119) who received voriconazole for prophylaxis (183) and therapeutic use (105) in clinical trials. 
The safety of voriconazole was also investigated in 158 additional paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years in 
compassionate use programs. Overall, the safety profile of voriconazole in paediatric population was similar 
to that in adults. However, a trend towards a higher frequency of liver enzyme elevations, reported as 
adverse events in clinical trials was observed in paediatric patients as compared to adults (14.2% 
transaminases increased in paediatrics compared to 5.3% in adults). Post-marketing data suggest there might 
be a higher occurrence of skin reactions (especially erythema) in the paediatric population compared to 
adults. In the 22 patients less than 2 years old who received voriconazole in a compassionate use programme, 
the following adverse reactions (for which a relationship to voriconazole could not be excluded) were 
reported: photosensitivity reaction (1), arrhythmia (1), pancreatitis (1), blood bilirubin increased (1), hepatic 
enzymes increased (1), rash (1) and papilloedema (1). There have been post-marketing reports of pancreatitis 
in paediatric patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
In clinical trials there were 3 cases of accidental overdose. All occurred in paediatric patients, who received 
up to five times the recommended intravenous dose of voriconazole. A single adverse reaction of 
photophobia of 10 minutes duration was reported.  
There is no known antidote to voriconazole. 
Voriconazole is haemodialysed with a clearance of 121 ml/min. In an overdose, haemodialysis may assist in 
the removal of voriconazole from the body. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code: J02A C03 
Mode of action 
Voriconazole is a triazole antifungal agent. The primary mode of action of voriconazole is the inhibition of 
fungal cytochrome P450-mediated 14 alpha-lanosterol demethylation, an essential step in fungal ergosterol 
biosynthesis. The accumulation of 14 alpha-methyl sterols correlates with the subsequent loss of ergosterol 
in the fungal cell membrane and may be responsible for the antifungal activity of voriconazole. Voriconazole 
has been shown to be more selective for fungal cytochrome P-450 enzymes than for various mammalian 
cytochrome P-450 enzyme systems. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
In 10 therapeutic studies, the median for the average and maximum plasma concentrations in individual 
subjects across the studies was 2425 ng/ml (inter-quartile range 1193 to 4380 ng/ml) and 3742 ng/ml 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(inter-quartile range 2027 to 6302 ng/ml), respectively. A positive association between mean, maximum or 
minimum plasma voriconazole concentration and efficacy in therapeutic studies was not found and this 
relationship has not been explored in prophylaxis studies.  
Pharmacokinetic-Pharmacodynamic analyses of clinical trial data identified positive associations between 
plasma voriconazole concentrations and both liver function test abnormalities and visual disturbances. Dose 
adjustments in prophylaxis studies have not been explored. 
Clinical efficacy and safety  
In vitro, voriconazole displays broad-spectrum antifungal activity with antifungal potency against Candida 
species (including fluconazole-resistant C. krusei and resistant strains of C. glabrata and C. albicans) and 
fungicidal activity against all Aspergillus species tested. In addition voriconazole shows in vitro fungicidal 
activity against emerging fungal pathogens, including those such as Scedosporium or Fusarium which have 
limited susceptibility to existing antifungal agents. 
Clinical efficacy defined as partial or complete response, has been demonstrated for Aspergillus spp. 
including A. flavus, A. fumigatus, A. terreus, A. niger, A. nidulans; Candida spp., including C. albicans, C. 
glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis; and limited numbers of C. dubliniensis, C. 
inconspicua, and C. guilliermondii, Scedosporium spp., including S. apiospermum, S. prolificans; and 
Fusarium spp.  
Other treated fungal infections (often with either partial or complete response) included isolated cases of 
Alternaria spp., Blastomyces dermatitidis, Blastoschizomyces capitatus, Cladosporium spp.,Coccidioides 
immitis, Conidiobolus coronatus, Cryptococcus neoformans, Exserohilum rostratum, Exophiala spinifera, 
Fonsecaea pedrosoi, Madurella mycetomatis, Paecilomyces lilacinus, Penicillium spp. including P. 
marneffei, Phialophora richardsiae, Scopulariopsis brevicaulis and Trichosporon spp. including T. beigelii 
infections. 
In vitro activity against clinical isolates has been observed for Acremonium spp., Alternaria spp., Bipolaris 
spp., Cladophialophora spp., and Histoplasma capsulatum, with most strains being inhibited by 
concentrations of voriconazole in the range 0.05 to 2 µg/ml. 
In vitro activity against the following pathogens has been shown, but the clinical significance is unknown: 
Curvularia spp. and Sporothrix spp.  
Breakpoints 
Specimens for fungal culture and other relevant laboratory studies (serology, histopathology) should be 
obtained prior to therapy to isolate and identify causative organisms. Therapy may be instituted before the 
results of the cultures and other laboratory studies are known; however, once these results become available, 
anti-infective therapy should be adjusted accordingly.  
The species most frequently involved in causing human infections include C. albicans, C. parapsilosis, C. 
tropicalis, C. glabrata and C. krusei, all of which usually exhibit minimal inhibitory concentration (MICs) of 
less than 1 mg/L for voriconazole.  
However, the in vitro activity of voriconazole against Candida species is not uniform. Specifically, for  
C. glabrata, the MICs of voriconazole for fluconazole-resistant isolates are proportionally higher than are 
those of fluconazole-susceptible isolates. Therefore, every attempt should be made to identify Candida to 
species level. If antifungal susceptibility testing is available, the MIC results may be interpreted using 
breakpoint criteria established by European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST). 
86 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUCAST Breakpoints 
Candida and Aspergillus species 
Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) 
breakpoint (mg/L) 
>R (Resistant) 
0.25 
0.25 
IE 
IE 
0.25 
0.25 
IE 
IE 
1 
1 
IE5 
IE5 
IE5 
IE 
≤S (Susceptible) 
0.06 
0.06 
Insufficient evidence (IE) 
IE 
0.125 
0.125 
IE 
IE 
1 
1 
IE5 
IE5 
IE5 
IE 
Candida albicans1 
Candida dubliniensis1 
Candida glabrata 
Candida krusei 
Candida parapsilosis1 
Candida tropicalis1 
Candida guilliermondii2 
Non-species related breakpoints for Candida3 
Aspergillus fumigatus4 
Aspergillus nidulans4 
Aspergillus flavus  
Aspergillus niger 
Aspergillus terreus 
Non-species related breakpoints6 
1 Strains with MIC values above the Susceptible/Intermediate (S/I) breakpoint are rare or not yet reported. 
The identification and antifungal susceptibility tests on any such isolate must be repeated and if the result 
is confirmed the isolate sent to a reference laboratory. Until there is evidence regarding clinical response 
for confirmed isolates with MIC above the current resistant breakpoint they should be reported resistant. 
A clinical response of 76% was achieved in infections caused by the species listed below when MICs were 
lower than or equal to the epidemiological cut-offs. Therefore, wild type populations of C. albicans, C. 
dubliniensis, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis are considered susceptible. 
2 The epidemiological cut-off values (ECOFFs) for these species are in general higher than for C. 
albicans. 
3 Non-species related breakpoints have been determined mainly on the basis of PK/PD data and are 
independent of MIC distributions of specific Candida species. They are for use only for organisms that do 
not have specific breakpoints. 
4 Area of technical uncertainty (ATU) is 2. Report as R with the following comment: "In some clinical 
situations (non-invasive infections forms) voriconazole can be used provided sufficient exposure is 
ensured". 
5 The ECOFFs for these species are in general one two-fold dilution higher than for A. fumigatus. 
6 Non-species related breakpoints have not been determined. 
Clinical experience  
Successful outcome in this section is defined as complete or partial response.  
Aspergillus infections – efficacy in aspergillosis patients with poor prognosis  
Voriconazole has in vitro fungicidal activity against Aspergillus spp. The efficacy and survival benefit of 
voriconazole versus conventional amphotericin B in the primary treatment of acute invasive aspergillosis 
was demonstrated in an open, randomised, multicentre study in 277 immunocompromised patients treated 
for 12 weeks. Voriconazole was administered intravenously with a loading dose of 6 mg/kg every 12 hours 
for the first 24 hours followed by a maintenance dose of 4 mg/kg every 12 hours for a minimum of 7 days. 
Therapy could then be switched to the oral formulation at a dose of 200 mg every 12 hours. Median duration 
of IV voriconazole therapy was 10 days (range 2-85 days). After IV voriconazole therapy, the median 
duration of oral voriconazole therapy was 76 days (range 2-232 days). 
A satisfactory global response (complete or partial resolution of all attributable symptoms, signs, 
radiographic/bronchoscopic abnormalities present at baseline) was seen in 53% of voriconazole-treated 
patients compared to 31% of patients treated with comparator. The 84-day survival rate for voriconazole was 
statistically significantly higher than that for the comparator and a clinically and statistically significant 
benefit was shown in favour of voriconazole for both time to death and time to discontinuation due to 
toxicity.  
87 
 
 
 
 
 
This study confirmed findings from an earlier, prospectively designed study where there was a positive 
outcome in subjects with risk factors for a poor prognosis, including graft versus host disease, and, in 
particular, cerebral infections (normally associated with almost 100% mortality).  
The studies included cerebral, sinus, pulmonary and disseminated aspergillosis in patients with bone marrow 
and solid organ transplants, haematological malignancies, cancer and AIDS.  
Candidaemia in non-neutropenic patients  
The efficacy of voriconazole compared to the regimen of amphotericin B followed by fluconazole in the 
primary treatment of candidaemia was demonstrated in an open, comparative study. Three hundred and 
seventy non-neutropenic patients (above 12 years of age) with documented candidaemia were included in the 
study, of whom 248 were treated with voriconazole. Nine subjects in the voriconazole group and 5 in the 
amphotericin B followed by fluconazole group also had mycologically proven infection in deep tissue. 
Patients with renal failure were excluded from this study. The median treatment duration was 15 days in both 
treatment arms. In the primary analysis, successful response as assessed by a Data Review Committee 
(DRC) blinded to study medicinal product was defined as resolution/improvement in all clinical signs and 
symptoms of infection with eradication of Candida from blood and infected deep tissue sites 12 weeks after 
the end of therapy (EOT). Patients who did not have an assessment 12 weeks after EOT were counted as 
failures. In this analysis a successful response was seen in 41% of patients in both treatment arms.  
In a secondary analysis, which utilised DRC assessments at the latest evaluable time point (EOT, or 2, 6, or 
12 weeks after EOT) voriconazole and the regimen of amphotericin B followed by fluconazole had 
successful response rates of 65% and 71%, respectively.  
The Investigator’s assessment of successful outcome at each of these time points is shown in the following 
table. 
Timepoint  
EOT  
2 weeks after EOT  
6 weeks after EOT  
12 weeks after EOT  
Voriconazole  
(N=248) 
178 (72%)  
125 (50%) 
104 (42%) 
104 (42%) 
Amphotericin B → fluconazole  
(N=122) 
88 (72%)  
62 (51%) 
55 (45%) 
51 (42%) 
Serious refractory Candida infections  
The study comprised 55 patients with serious refractory systemic Candida infections (including 
candidaemia, disseminated and other invasive candidiasis) where prior antifungal treatment, particularly with 
fluconazole, had been ineffective. Successful response was seen in 24 patients (15 complete, 9 partial 
responses). In fluconazole-resistant non-albicans species, a successful outcome was seen in 3/3 C. krusei 
(complete responses) and 6/8 C. glabrata (5 complete, 1 partial response) infections. The clinical efficacy 
data were supported by limited susceptibility data.  
Scedosporium and Fusarium infections 
Voriconazole was shown to be effective against the following rare fungal pathogens: 
Scedosporium spp.: Successful response to voriconazole therapy was seen in 16 (6 complete, 10 partial 
responses) of 28 patients with S. apiospermum and in 2 (both partial responses) of 7 patients with S. 
prolificans infection. In addition, a successful response was seen in 1 of 3 patients with infections caused by 
more than one organism including Scedosporium spp.  
Fusarium spp.: Seven (3 complete, 4 partial responses) of 17 patients were successfully treated with voriconazole. 
Of these 7 patients, 3 had eye, 1 had sinus, and 3 had disseminated infection. Four additional patients with 
fusariosis had an infection caused by several organisms; 2 of them had a successful outcome.  
The majority of patients receiving voriconazole treatment of the above mentioned rare infections were 
intolerant of, or refractory to, prior antifungal therapy.  
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
Primary Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections – Efficacy in HSCT recipients without prior proven or 
probable IFI 
Voriconazole was compared to itraconazole as primary prophylaxis in an open-label, comparative, 
multicenter study of adult and adolescent allogeneic HSCT recipients without prior proven or probable IFI. 
Success was defined as the ability to continue study drug prophylaxis for 100 days after HSCT (without 
stopping for >14 days) and survival with no proven or probable IFI for 180 days after HSCT. The modified 
intent-to-treat (MITT) group included 465 allogeneic HSCT recipients with 45% of patients having AML. 
From all patients 58% were subject to myeloablative conditions regimens. Prophylaxis with study drug was 
started immediately after HSCT: 224 received voriconazole and 241 received itraconazole. The median 
duration of study drug prophylaxis was 96 days for voriconazole and 68 days for itraconazole in the MITT 
group. 
Success rates and other secondary endpoints are presented in the table below: 
Study Endpoints 
Voriconazole 
N=224 
Itraconazole 
N=241 
Difference in 
proportions and the 
95% confidence interval 
(CI)  
16.4% (7.7%, 25.1%)** 
15.4% (6.6%, 24.2%)** 
14.6% (5.6%, 23.5%) 
P-Value 
0.0002** 
0.0006** 
0.0015 
109 (48.7%) 
121 (54.0%) 
120 (53.6%) 
80 (33.2%) 
96 (39.8%) 
94 (39.0%) 
184 (82.1%) 
3 (1.3%) 
197 (81.7%) 
5 (2.1%) 
0.4% (-6.6%, 7.4%) 
-0.7% (-3.1%, 1.6%) 
0.9107 
0.5390 
2 (0.9%) 
4 (1.7%) 
-0.8% (-2.8%, 1.3%) 
0.4589 
0 
3 (1.2%) 
-1.2% (-2.6%, 0.2%) 
0.0813 
Success at day 180* 
Success at day 100  
Completed at least 100 days of 
study drug prophylaxis  
Survived to day 180 
Developed proven or probable 
IFI to day 180 
Developed proven or probable 
IFI to day 100 
Developed proven or probable 
IFI while on study drug 
* Primary endpoint of the study 
** Difference in proportions, 95% CI and p-values obtained after adjustment for randomization 
The breakthrough IFI rate to Day 180 and the primary endpoint of the study, which is Success at Day 180, 
for patients with AML and myeloablative conditioning regimens respectively, is presented in the table 
below: 
AML 
Study endpoints 
Voriconazole  
(N=98)  
Itraconazole 
(N=109) 
Difference in proportions and 
the 95% confidence interval 
(CI) 
Breakthrough IFI – Day 180 
Success at Day 180* 
1 (1.0%) 
55 (56.1%) 
 2 (1.8%) 
45 (41.3%) 
-0.8% (-4.0%, 2.4%) ** 
14.7% (1.7%, 27.7%)*** 
*   Primary endpoint of study 
** Using a margin of 5%, non inferiority is demonstrated  
***Difference in proportions, 95% CI obtained after adjustment for randomization 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Myeloablative conditioning regimens 
Study endpoints 
Voriconazole  
(N=125)  
Itraconazole 
(N=143) 
Difference in proportions and 
the 95% confidence interval 
(CI) 
Breakthrough IFI – Day 180 
Success at Day 180* 
2 (1.6%) 
70 (56.0%) 
3 (2.1%)  
53 (37.1%) 
-0.5% (-3.7%, 2.7%) ** 
20.1% (8.5%, 31.7%)*** 
*   Primary endpoint of study 
** Using a margin of 5%, non inferiority is demonstrated  
*** Difference in proportions, 95% CI obtained after adjustment for randomization  
Secondary Prophylaxis of IFI – Efficacy in HSCT recipients with prior proven or probable IFI 
Voriconazole was investigated as secondary prophylaxis in an open-label, non-comparative, multicenter 
study of adult allogeneic HSCT recipients with prior proven or probable IFI. The primary endpoint was the 
rate of occurrence of proven and probable IFI during the first year after HSCT. The MITT group included 
40 patients with prior IFI, including 31 with aspergillosis, 5 with candidiasis, and 4 with other IFI. The 
median duration of study drug prophylaxis was 95.5 days in the MITT group. 
Proven or probable IFIs developed in 7.5% (3/40) of patients during the first year after HSCT, including one 
candidemia, one scedosporiosis (both relapses of prior IFI), and one zygomycosis. The survival rate at 
Day 180 was 80.0% (32/40) and at 1 year was 70.0% (28/40). 
Duration of treatment  
In clinical trials, 705 patients received voriconazole therapy for greater than 12 weeks, with 164 patients 
receiving voriconazole for over 6 months.  
Paediatric population  
Fifty-three paediatric patients aged 2 to <18 years were treated with voriconazole in two prospective, 
open-label, non-comparative, multi-center clinical trials. One study enrolled 31 patients with possible, 
proven or probable invasive aspergillosis (IA), of whom 14 patients had proven or probable IA and were 
included in the MITT efficacy analyses. The second study enrolled 22 patients with invasive candidiasis 
including candidaemia (ICC), and esophageal candidiasis (EC) requiring either primary or salvage therapy, 
of whom 17 were included in the MITT efficacy analyses. For patients with IA the overall rates of global 
response at 6 weeks were 64.3% (9/14), the global response rate was 40% (2/5) for patients 2 to <12 years 
and 77.8% (7/9) for patients 12 to <18 years of age. For patients with ICC the global response rate at EOT 
was 85.7% (6/7) and for patients with EC the global response rate at EOT was 70% (7/10). The overall rate 
of response (ICC and EC combined) was 88.9% (8/9) for 2 to <12 years old and 62.5% (5/8) for 12 to <18 
years old.   
Clinical studies examining QTc interval  
A placebo-controlled, randomized, single-dose, crossover study to evaluate the effect on the QTc interval of 
healthy volunteers was conducted with three oral doses of voriconazole and ketoconazole. The 
placebo-adjusted mean maximum increases in QTc from baseline after 800, 1200 and 1600 mg of 
voriconazole were 5.1, 4.8, and 8.2 msec, respectively and 7.0 msec for ketoconazole 800 mg. No subject in 
any group had an increase in QTc of ≥ 60 msec from baseline. No subject experienced an interval exceeding 
the potentially clinically-relevant threshold of 500 msec.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
General pharmacokinetic characteristics  
The pharmacokinetics of voriconazole have been characterised in healthy subjects, special populations and 
patients. During oral administration of 200 mg or 300 mg twice daily for 14 days in patients at risk of 
aspergillosis (mainly patients with malignant neoplasms of lymphatic or haematopoietic tissue), the observed 
pharmacokinetic characteristics of rapid and consistent absorption, accumulation and non-linear 
pharmacokinetics were in agreement with those observed in healthy subjects.  
The pharmacokinetics of voriconazole are non-linear due to saturation of its metabolism. Greater than 
proportional increase in exposure is observed with increasing dose. It is estimated that, on average, 
90 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increasing the oral dose from 200 mg twice daily to 300 mg twice daily leads to a 2.5-fold increase in 
exposure (AUCτ). The oral maintenance dose of 200 mg (or 100 mg for patients less than 40 kg) achieves a 
voriconazole exposure similar to 3 mg/kg IV. A 300 mg (or 150 mg for patients less than 40 kg) oral 
maintenance dose achieves an exposure similar to 4 mg/kg IV. When the recommended intravenous or oral 
loading dose regimens are administered, plasma concentrations close to steady state are achieved within the 
first 24 hours of dosing. Without the loading dose, accumulation occurs during twice daily multiple dosing 
with steady-state plasma voriconazole concentrations being achieved by Day 6 in the majority of subjects.  
Absorption  
Voriconazole is rapidly and almost completely absorbed following oral administration, with maximum 
plasma concentrations (Cmax) achieved 1-2 hours after dosing. The absolute bioavailability of voriconazole 
after oral administration is estimated to be 96%. Bioequivalence was established between the 200 mg tablet 
and the 40 mg/ml oral suspension when administered as a 200 mg dose. When multiple doses of 
voriconazole oral suspension are administered with high fat meals, Cmax and AUCτ are reduced by 58% and 
37% respectively. The absorption of voriconazole is not affected by changes in gastric pH.  
Distribution  
The volume of distribution at steady state for voriconazole is estimated to be 4.6 L/kg, suggesting extensive 
distribution into tissues. Plasma protein binding is estimated to be 58%. Cerebrospinal fluid samples from 
eight patients in a compassionate programme showed detectable voriconazole concentrations in all patients.  
Biotransformation 
In vitro studies showed that voriconazole is metabolised by the hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 
CYP2C19, CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. 
The inter-individual variability of voriconazole pharmacokinetics is high.  
In vivo studies indicated that CYP2C19 is significantly involved in the metabolism of voriconazole. This 
enzyme exhibits genetic polymorphism. For example, 15-20% of Asian populations may be expected to be 
poor metabolisers. For Caucasians and Blacks the prevalence of poor metabolisers is 3-5%. Studies 
conducted in Caucasian and Japanese healthy subjects have shown that poor metabolisers have, on average, 
4-fold higher voriconazole exposure (AUCτ) than their homozygous extensive metaboliser counterparts. 
Subjects who are heterozygous extensive metabolisers have on average 2-fold higher voriconazole exposure 
than their homozygous extensive metaboliser counterparts.  
The major metabolite of voriconazole is the N-oxide, which accounts for 72% of the circulating radiolabelled 
metabolites in plasma. This metabolite has minimal antifungal activity and does not contribute to the overall 
efficacy of voriconazole.  
Elimination  
Voriconazole is eliminated via hepatic metabolism with less than 2% of the dose excreted unchanged in the 
urine.  
After administration of a radiolabelled dose of voriconazole, approximately 80% of the radioactivity is 
recovered in the urine after multiple intravenous dosing and 83% in the urine after multiple oral dosing. The 
majority (>94%) of the total radioactivity is excreted in the first 96 hours after both oral and intravenous 
dosing.  
The terminal half-life of voriconazole depends on dose and is approximately 6 hours at 200 mg (orally). 
Because of non-linear pharmacokinetics, the terminal half-life is not useful in the prediction of the 
accumulation or elimination of voriconazole.  
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups  
Gender  
In an oral multiple-dose study, Cmax and AUCτ for healthy young females were 83% and 113% higher, 
respectively, than in healthy young males (18-45 years). In the same study, no significant differences in Cmax 
and AUCτ were observed between healthy elderly males and healthy elderly females (≥65 years).  
In the clinical programme, no dosage adjustment was made on the basis of gender. The safety profile and 
plasma concentrations observed in male and female patients were similar. Therefore, no dosage adjustment 
based on gender is necessary.  
Elderly 
In an oral multiple-dose study Cmax and AUCτ in healthy elderly males (≥65 years) were 61% and 86% 
higher, respectively, than in healthy young males (18-45 years). No significant differences in Cmax and AUCτ 
were observed between healthy elderly females (≥65 years) and healthy young females (18-45 years).  
In the therapeutic studies no dosage adjustment was made on the basis of age. A relationship between plasma 
concentrations and age was observed. The safety profile of voriconazole in young and elderly patients was 
similar and, therefore, no dosage adjustment is necessary for the elderly (see section 4.2).  
Paediatric population 
The recommended doses in children and adolescent patients are based on a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis of data obtained from 112 immunocompromised paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years and 26 
immunocompromised adolescent patients aged 12 to <17 years. Multiple intravenous doses of 3, 4, 6, 7 and 
8 mg/kg twice daily and multiple oral doses (using the powder for oral suspension) of 4 mg/kg, 6 mg/kg, and 
200 mg twice daily were evaluated in 3 paediatric pharmacokinetic studies. Intravenous loading doses of 
6 mg/kg IV twice daily on day 1 followed by 4 mg/kg intravenous dose twice daily and 300 mg oral tablets 
twice daily were evaluated in one adolescent pharmacokinetic study. Larger inter-subject variability was 
observed in paediatric patients compared to adults. 
A comparison of the paediatric and adult population pharmacokinetic data indicated that the predicted total 
exposure (AUC) in children following administration of a 9 mg/kg IV loading dose was comparable to that 
in adults following a 6 mg/kg IV loading dose. The predicted total exposures in children following IV 
maintenance doses of 4 and 8 mg/kg twice daily were comparable to those in adults following 3 and 4 mg/kg 
IV twice daily, respectively. The predicted total exposure in children following an oral maintenance dose of 
9 mg/kg (maximum of 350 mg) twice daily was comparable to that in adults following 200 mg oral twice 
daily. An 8 mg/kg intravenous dose will provide voriconazole exposure approximately 2-fold higher than a 
9 mg/kg oral dose. 
The higher intravenous maintenance dose in paediatric patients relative to adults reflects the higher 
elimination capacity in paediatric patients due to a greater liver mass to body mass ratio. Oral bioavailability 
may, however, be limited in paediatric patients with malabsorption and very low body weight for their age. 
In that case, intravenous voriconazole administration is recommended.  
Voriconazole exposures in the majority of adolescent patients were comparable to those in adults receiving 
the same dosing regimens. However, lower voriconazole exposure was observed in some young adolescents 
with low body weight compared to adults. It is likely that these subjects may metabolise voriconazole more 
similarly to children than to adults. Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis, 12- to 14-year-old 
adolescents weighing less than 50 kg should receive children’s doses (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment  
In an oral single-dose (200 mg) study in subjects with normal renal function and mild (creatinine clearance 
41-60 ml/min) to severe (creatinine clearance <20 ml/min) renal impairment, the pharmacokinetics of 
voriconazole were not significantly affected by renal impairment. The plasma protein binding of 
voriconazole was similar in subjects with different degrees of renal impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment  
After an oral single-dose (200 mg), AUC was 233% higher in subjects with mild to moderate hepatic 
cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A and B) compared with subjects with normal hepatic function. Protein binding of 
voriconazole was not affected by impaired hepatic function.  
In an oral multiple-dose study, AUCτ was similar in subjects with moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh B) 
given a maintenance dose of 100 mg twice daily and subjects with normal hepatic function given 200 mg 
twice daily. No pharmacokinetic data are available for patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh C) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Repeated-dose toxicity studies with voriconazole indicated the liver to be the target organ. Hepatotoxicity 
occurred at plasma exposures similar to those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, in common with 
other antifungal agents. In rats, mice and dogs, voriconazole also induced minimal adrenal changes. 
Conventional studies of safety pharmacology, genotoxicity or carcinogenic potential did not reveal a special 
hazard for humans.  
In reproduction studies, voriconazole was shown to be teratogenic in rats and embryotoxic in rabbits at 
systemic exposures equal to those obtained in humans with therapeutic doses. In the pre- and post-natal 
development study in rats at exposures lower than those obtained in humans with therapeutic doses, 
voriconazole prolonged the duration of gestation and labour and produced dystocia with consequent maternal 
mortality and reduced perinatal survival of pups. The effects on parturition are probably mediated by 
species-specific mechanisms, involving reduction of oestradiol levels, and are consistent with those observed 
with other azole antifungal agents. Voriconazole administration induced no impairment of male or female 
fertility in rats at exposures similar to those obtained in humans at therapeutic doses. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1  List of excipients  
Sucrose 
Silica Colloidal Anhydrous 
Titanium Dioxide (E171)  
Xanthan Gum  
Sodium Citrate  
Citric Acid Anhydrous 
Sodium Benzoate (E211)  
Natural Orange Flavour 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life  
2 years 
The shelf life of the constituted suspension is 14 days.  
Constituted suspension: Do not store above 30°C; do not refrigerate or freeze. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
For storage conditions after constitution, see section 6.3. 
Keep the container tightly closed. 
93 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
One 100 ml high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle (with a polypropylene child resistant closure) contains 
45 g of powder for oral suspension. A measuring cup (graduated to indicate 23 ml), 5 ml oral syringe and a 
press-in bottle adaptor are also provided. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
Constitution instructions:  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
Tap the bottle to release the powder.  
Add 2 measuring cups of water, providing a total volume of 46 ml. 
Shake the closed bottle vigorously for about 1 minute.  
Remove child-resistant cap. Press bottle adaptor into the neck of the bottle.  
Replace the cap.  
Write the date of expiration of the constituted suspension on the bottle label (the shelf-life of the 
constituted suspension is 14 days).  
Following constitution, the volume of the suspension is 75 ml, providing a usable volume of 70 ml.  
Instructions for use:  
Shake the closed bottle of constituted suspension for approximately 10 seconds before each use.  
Once constituted, VFEND oral suspension should only be administered using the oral syringe supplied with 
each pack. Refer to the patient leaflet for more detailed instructions for use.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/02/212/026 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 19 March 2002  
Date of latest renewal: 21 February 2012  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency. 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release  
Tablets  
R-Pharm Germany GmbH  
Heinrich-Mack-Str. 35, 89257 Illertissen  
Germany  
Pfizer Italia S.r.l. 
Località Marino del Tronto 
63100 Ascoli Piceno (AP) 
Italy 
Powder for solution for infusion and powder for oral suspension:  
Fareva Amboise  
Zone Industrielle  
29 route des Industries  
37530 Pocé-sur-Cisse  
France  
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the manufacturer 
responsible for the release of the concerned batch  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent 
updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE 
OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities and interventions 
detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
•  Patient Alert Card for Phototoxicity and SCC:  
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Reminds patients of the risk of phototoxicity and skin SCC during voriconazole treatment. 
-  Reminds patients when and how to report relevant signs and symptoms of phototoxicity and skin 
cancer. 
-  Reminds patients to take steps to minimize the risk of skin reactions and skin SCC (by avoiding 
exposure to direct sunlight, use of a sunscreen and protective clothing) during voriconazole 
treatment and inform HCPs if they experience relevant skin abnormalities. 
97 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
Blister pack for 50 mg film-coated tablets – Pack of 2, 10, 14, 20, 28, 30, 50, 56, 100 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets 
voriconazole  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each tablet contains 50 mg voriconazole.  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Contains lactose monohydrate. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
2 film-coated tablets  
10 film-coated tablets  
14 film-coated tablets  
20 film-coated tablets  
28 film-coated tablets  
30 film-coated tablets  
50 film-coated tablets  
56 film-coated tablets  
100 film-coated tablets  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Sealed Pack 
Do not use if box has been opened. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/212/001 2 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/002 10 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/003 14 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/004 20 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/005 28 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/006 30 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/007 50 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/008 56 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/009 100 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/028 2 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/029 10 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/030 14 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/031 20 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/032 28 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/033 30 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/034 50 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/035 56 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/036 100 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE  
VFEND 50 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister foil for 50 mg film-coated tablets (all blister packs) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets  
voriconazole  
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG (as MA Holder logo)  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
OTHER  
103 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Blister pack for 200 mg film-coated tablets – Pack of 2, 10, 14, 20, 28, 30, 50, 56, 100  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets  
voriconazole  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each tablet contains 200 mg voriconazole.  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Contains lactose monohydrate. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
2 film-coated tablets  
10 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
50 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
100 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Sealed Pack 
Do not use if box has been opened.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/212/013 2 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/014 10 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/015 14 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/016 20 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/017 28 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/018 30 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/019 50 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/020 56 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/021 100 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/037 2 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/038 10 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/039 14 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/040 20 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/041 28 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/042 30 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/043 50 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/044 56 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/02/212/045 100 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE  
VFEND 200 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS  
Blister foil for 200 mg film-coated tablets (all blister packs)  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets  
voriconazole  
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG (as MA Holder logo)  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
OTHER  
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Outer carton  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VFEND 200 mg powder for solution for infusion  
voriconazole  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each vial contains 200 mg of voriconazole. 
After reconstitution each ml contains 10 mg of voriconazole. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipient: sulfobutylether beta cyclodextrin sodium. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Powder for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Reconstitute and dilute before use. 
Intravenous use 
Not for bolus injection 
Single use vial 
Infuse at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
Shelf life after reconstitution: 24 hours when stored at 2°C - 8°C.  
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/212/025 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted.  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
Label on the vial 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
VFEND 200 mg powder for solution for infusion 
voriconazole  
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
Reconstitute and dilute before use – see leaflet.  
Infuse at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
200 mg (10 mg/ml)  
6. 
OTHER  
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
Outer carton  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VFEND 40 mg/ml powder for oral suspension  
voriconazole  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
1 ml of the constituted suspension contains 40 mg voriconazole.  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Also contains sucrose, sodium benzoate (E211). See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Powder for oral suspension  
1 bottle of 45 g 
A measuring cup (graduated to indicate 23 ml), 5 ml oral syringe and a press-in bottle adaptor 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use after constitution 
Shake bottle for approximately 10 seconds before use. 
Use the oral syringe provided in the pack to measure the correct dose. 
Constitution instructions:  
Tap the bottle to release the powder.  
Add 46 ml of water and shake vigorously for about 1 minute. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Any remaining suspension should be discarded 14 days after constitution.  
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Powder: store at 2°C to 8°C  in a refrigerator before constitution. 
For the constituted oral suspension: 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
Store in the original container  
Keep the container tightly closed.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/02/212/026  
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE  
VFEND 40 mg/ml  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING  
Bottle  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
VFEND 40 mg/ml powder for oral suspension  
voriconazole  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
1 ml of the constituted suspension contains 40 mg voriconazole.  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Also contains sucrose, sodium benzoate (E211). See leaflet for further information.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Powder for oral suspension 
45 g 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use after constitution 
Shake bottle for approximately 10 seconds before use. 
Use the oral syringe provided in the pack to measure the correct dose. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
Any remaining suspension should be discarded 14 days after constitution.  
Expiry date of the constituted suspension: 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Powder: store at 2°C to 8°C in a refrigerator before constitution. 
For the constituted oral suspension: 
Do not store above 30°C.  
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
Store in the original container 
Keep the container tightly closed. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/212/026  
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE  
Justification for not including Braille accepted.  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the user 
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets  
VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets  
voriconazole  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you.  
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What VFEND is and what it is used for  
What you need to know before you take VFEND  
How to take VFEND  
Possible side effects  
How to store VFEND  
Content of the pack and other information  
1.  What VFEND is and what it is used for  
VFEND contains the active substance voriconazole. VFEND is an antifungal medicine. It works by killing or 
stopping the growth of the fungi that cause infections. 
It is used for the treatment of patients (adults and children over the age of 2) with: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
invasive aspergillosis (a type of fungal infection due to Aspergillus sp), 
candidaemia (another type of fungal infection due to Candida sp) in non-neutropenic patients 
(patients without abnormally low white blood cells count), 
serious invasive Candida sp. infections when the fungus is resistant to fluconazole (another 
antifungal medicine), 
serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium sp. or Fusarium sp. (two different species of 
fungi). 
VFEND is intended for patients with worsening, possibly life-threatening, fungal infections. 
Prevention of fungal infections in high risk bone marrow transplant recipients.  
This product should only be taken under the supervision of a doctor.  
2.  What you need to know before you take VFEND  
Do not take VFEND 
If you are allergic to voriconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
It is very important that you inform your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have taken any other 
medicines, even those that are obtained without a prescription, or herbal medicines.  
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The medicines in the following list must not be taken during your course of VFEND treatment:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Terfenadine (used for allergy)  
Astemizole (used for allergy)  
Cisapride (used for stomach problems)  
Pimozide (used for treating mental illness)  
Quinidine (used for irregular heart beat) 
Ivabradine (used for symptoms of chronic heart failure)  
Rifampicin (used for treating tuberculosis) 
Efavirenz (used for treating HIV) in doses of 400 mg and above once daily  
Carbamazepine (used to treat seizures)  
Phenobarbital (used for severe insomnia and seizures)  
Ergot alkaloids (e.g., ergotamine, dihydroergotamine; used for migraine)  
Sirolimus (used in transplant patients)  
Ritonavir (used for treating HIV) in doses of 400mg and more twice daily  
St. John’s Wort (herbal supplement)  
Naloxegol (used to treat constipation specifically caused by pain medicines, called opioids, (e.g., 
morphine, oxycodone, fentanyl, tramadol, codeine)) 
Tolvaptan (used to treat hyponatremia (low levels of sodium in your blood) or to slow kidney function 
decline in patients with polycystic kidney disease) 
Lurasidone (used to treat depression) 
Venetoclax (used to treat patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia-CLL) 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking VFEND if: 
• 
• 
• 
you have had an allergic reaction to other azoles.  
you are suffering from, or have ever suffered from liver disease. If you have liver disease, your doctor 
may prescribe a lower dose of VFEND. Your doctor should also monitor your liver function while you 
are being treated with VFEND by doing blood tests.  
you  are  known  to  have  cardiomyopathy,  irregular  heart  beat,  slow  heart  rate  or  an  abnormality  of 
electrocardiogram (ECG) called ‘long QTc syndrome’.  
You should avoid any sunlight and sun exposure while being treated. It is important to cover sun exposed 
areas of skin and use sunscreen with high sun protection factor (SPF), as an increased sensitivity of skin to 
the sun’s UV rays can occur. This may be further increased by other medicines that sensitise the skin to 
sunlight, like methotrexate. These precautions are also applicable to children. 
While being treated with VFEND:  
• 
tell your doctor immediately if you develop 
o  sunburn 
o  severe skin rash or blisters  
o  bone pain  
If you develop skin disorders as described above, your doctor may refer you to a dermatologist, who after 
consultation may decide that it is important for you to be seen on a regular basis. There is a small chance that 
skin cancer could develop with long-term use of VFEND.  
If you develop signs of ‘adrenal insufficiency’ where the adrenal glands do not produce adequate amounts of 
certain steroid hormones such as cortisol which may lead to symptoms such as: chronic, or long lasting 
fatigue, muscle weakness, loss of appetite, weight loss, abdominal pain, please tell your doctor. 
If you develop signs of ‘Cushing’s syndrome’ where the body produces too much of the hormone cortisol  
which may lead to symptoms such as: weight gain, fatty hump between the shoulders, a rounded face, 
darkening of the skin on the stomach, thighs breasts, and arms, thinning skin, bruising easily, high blood 
sugar, excessive hair growth, excessive sweating, please tell your doctor. 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your doctor should monitor the function of your liver and kidney by doing blood tests.  
Children and adolescents 
VFEND should not be given to children younger than 2 years of age.  
Other medicines and VFEND 
Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines, 
including those that are obtained without a prescription.  
Some medicines, when taken at the same time as VFEND, may affect the way VFEND works or VFEND 
may affect the way they work.    
Tell your doctor if you are taking the following medicine, as treatment with VFEND at the same time should 
be avoided if possible:  
• 
• 
Ritonavir (used for treating HIV) in doses of 100 mg twice daily 
Glasdegib (used for treating cancer) – if you need to use both drugs your doctor will monitor your 
heart rhythm frequently 
Tell your doctor if you are taking either of the following medicines, as treatment with VFEND at the same 
time should be avoided if possible, and a dose adjustment of voriconazole may be required:  
• 
• 
Rifabutin (used for treating tuberculosis). If you are already being treated with rifabutin your blood 
counts and side effects to rifabutin will need to be monitored. 
Phenytoin (used to treat epilepsy). If you are already being treated with phenytoin your blood 
concentration of phenytoin will need to be monitored during your treatment with VFEND and your 
dose may be adjusted. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines, as a dose adjustment or monitoring may be 
required to check that the medicines and/ or VFEND are still having the desired effect:  
•  Warfarin and other anticoagulants (e.g., phenprocoumon, acenocoumarol; used to slow down clotting 
of the blood)  
Ciclosporin (used in transplant patients)  
Tacrolimus (used in transplant patients)  
Sulfonylureas (e.g., tolbutamide, glipizide, and glyburide) (used for diabetes)  
Statins (e.g., atorvastatin, simvastatin) (used for lowering cholesterol)  
Benzodiazepines (e.g., midazolam, triazolam) (used for severe insomnia and stress)  
Omeprazole (used for treating ulcers)  
Oral contraceptives (if you take VFEND whilst using oral contraceptives, you may get side effects 
such as nausea and menstrual disorders)  
Vinca alkaloids (e.g., vincristine and vinblastine) (used in treating cancer)  
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (e.g., axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, ceritinib, cobimetinib, dabrafenib, 
dasatinib, nilotinib, sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) (used for treating cancer) 
Tretinoin (used to treat leukaemia)  
Indinavir and other HIV protease inhibitors (used for treating HIV)  
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., efavirenz, delavirdine, nevirapine) (used for 
treating HIV) (some doses of efavirenz can NOT be taken at the same time as VFEND) 
Methadone (used to treat heroin addiction)  
Alfentanil and fentanyl and other short-acting opiates such as sufentanil (painkillers used for surgical 
procedures)  
Oxycodone and other long-acting opiates such as hydrocodone (used for moderate to severe pain) 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., ibuprofen, diclofenac) (used for treating pain and 
inflammation) 
Fluconazole (used for fungal infections) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Everolimus (used for treating advanced kidney cancer and in transplant patients) 
Letermovir (used for preventing cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease after bone marrow transplant) 
Ivacaftor: used to treat cystic fibrosis 
Flucloxacillin (antibiotic used against bacterial infections) 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
VFEND must not be taken during pregnancy, unless indicated by your doctor. Effective contraception must 
be used in women of childbearing potential. Contact your doctor immediately if you become pregnant while 
taking VFEND.  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
VFEND may cause blurring of vision or uncomfortable sensitivity to light. While affected, do not drive or 
operate any tools or machines. Contact your doctor if you experience this.  
VFEND contains lactose 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, tell your doctor before 
taking VFEND.  
VFEND contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 50 mg tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 200 mg tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take VFEND  
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you 
are not sure.  
Your doctor will determine your dose depending on your weight and the type of infection you have.  
The recommended dose for adults (including elderly patients) is as follows:  
Dose for the first 24 hours  
(Loading Dose)  
Dose after the first 24 hours  
(Maintenance Dose)  
Tablets  
Patients 40 kg and above 
400 mg every 12 hours for 
the first 24 hours 
200 mg twice a day 
Patients less than 40 kg 
200 mg every 12 hours for 
the first 24 hours 
100 mg twice a day 
Depending on your response to treatment, your doctor may increase the daily dose to 300 mg twice a day. 
The doctor may decide to decrease the dose if you have mild to moderate cirrhosis.  
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use in children and adolescents 
The recommended dose for children and teenagers is as follows:  
Dose for the first 24 hours  
(Loading Dose)  
Dose after the first 24 hours  
(Maintenance Dose) 
Tablets  
Children aged 2 to less than 
12 years and teenagers aged 12 to 
14 years weighing less than 50 kg 
Your treatment will be started as 
an infusion 
9 mg/kg twice a day 
(a maximum dose of 350 mg 
twice daily) 
Teenagers aged 12 to 14 years 
weighing 50 kg or more; and all 
teenagers older than 14 
400 mg every 12 hours for the 
first 24 hours 
200 mg twice a day 
Depending on your response to treatment, your doctor may increase or decrease the daily dose. 
• 
Tablets must only be given if the child is able to swallow tablets.  
Take your tablet at least one hour before, or one hour after a meal. Swallow the tablet whole with some 
water.  
If you or your child are taking VFEND for prevention of fungal infections, your doctor may stop giving 
VFEND if you or your child develop treatment related side effects.  
If you take more VFEND than you should  
If you take more tablets than prescribed (or if someone else takes your tablets) you must seek medical advice 
or go to the nearest hospital casualty department immediately. Take your box of VFEND tablets with you. 
You may experience abnormal intolerance to light as a result of taking more VFEND than you should. 
If you forget to take VFEND  
It is important to take your VFEND tablets regularly at the same time each day. If you forget to take one 
dose, take your next dose when it is due. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.  
If you stop taking VFEND  
It has been shown that taking all doses at the appropriate times may greatly increase the effectiveness of your 
medicine. Therefore unless your doctor instructs you to stop treatment, it is important to keep taking VFEND 
correctly, as described above.  
Continue taking VFEND until your doctor tells you to stop. Do not stop treatment early because your 
infection may not be cured. Patients with a weakened immune system or those with difficult infections may 
require long-term treatment to prevent the infection from returning.  
When VFEND treatment is stopped by your doctor you should not experience any effects.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
If any side effects occur, most are likely to be minor and temporary. However, some may be serious and 
need medical attention.  
Serious side effects – Stop taking VFEND and see a doctor immediately 
- 
- 
- 
Rash 
Jaundice; Changes in blood tests of liver function 
Pancreatitis 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other side effects 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people  
-  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-  
-  
Visual impairment (change in vision including blurred vision, visual colour alterations, abnormal 
intolerance to visual perception of light, colour blindness, eye disorder, halo vision, night blindness, 
swinging vision, seeing sparks, visual aura, visual acuity reduced, visual brightness, loss of part of the 
usual field of vision, spots before the eyes)  
Fever  
Rash  
Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea  
Headache  
Swelling of the extremities  
Stomach pains  
Breathing difficulties 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
sensations, 
Inflammation of the sinuses, inflammation of the gums, chills, weakness  
Low numbers of some types, including severe, of red (sometimes immune-related) and/or white blood 
cells (sometimes with fever), low numbers of cells called platelets that help the blood to clot  
Low blood sugar, low blood potassium, low sodium in the blood  
Anxiety, depression, confusion, agitation, inability to sleep, hallucinations  
Seizures, tremors or uncontrolled muscle movements, tingling or abnormal skin  
increase in muscle tone, sleepiness, dizziness 
Bleeding in the eye  
Heart rhythm problems including very fast heartbeat, very slow heartbeat, fainting  
Low blood pressure, inflammation of a vein (which may be associated with the formation of a blood 
clot)  
Acute breathing difficulty, chest pain, swelling of the face (mouth, lips and around eyes), fluid 
accumulation in the lungs  
Constipation, indigestion, inflammation of the lips 
Jaundice, inflammation of the liver and liver injury  
Skin rashes which may lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin characterized by a flat, red 
area on the skin that is covered with small confluent bumps, redness of the skin 
Itchiness  
Hair loss  
Back pain 
Kidney failure, blood in the urine, changes in kidney function tests  
Sunburn or severe skin reaction following exposure to light or sun 
Skin cancer  
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Flu-like symptoms, irritation and inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, inflammation of the 
gastrointestinal tract causing antibiotic associated diarrhoea, inflammation of the lymphatic vessels 
Inflammation of the thin tissue that lines the inner wall of the abdomen and covers the abdominal 
organ 
Enlarged lymph glands (sometimes painful), failure of blood marrow, increased eosinophil 
Depressed function of the adrenal gland, underactive thyroid gland 
Abnormal brain function, Parkinson-like symptoms, nerve injury resulting in numbness, pain, tingling 
or burning in the hands or feet 
Problems with balance or coordination  
Swelling of the brain  
Double vision, serious conditions of the eye including: pain and inflammation of the eyes and eyelids, 
abnormal eye movement, damage to the optic nerve resulting in vision impairment, optic disc swelling  
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Decreased sensitivity to touch  
Abnormal sense of taste 
Hearing difficulties, ringing in the ears, vertigo  
Inflammation of certain internal organs- pancreas and duodenum, swelling and inflammation of the 
tongue  
Enlarged liver, liver failure, gallbladder disease, gallstones  
Joint inflammation, inflammation of the veins under the skin (which may be associated with the 
formation of a blood clot)  
Inflammation of the kidney, proteins in the urine, damage to the kidney  
Very fast heart rate or skipped heartbeats, sometimes with erratic electrical impulses 
Abnormal electrocardiogram (ECG)  
Blood cholesterol increased, blood urea increased 
Allergic skin reactions (sometimes severe), including life-threatening skin condition that causes 
painful blisters and sores of the skin and mucous membranes, especially in the mouth, inflammation of 
the skin, hives, skin redness and irritation, red or purple discoloration of the skin which may be caused 
by low platelet count, eczema 
Infusion site reaction 
Allergic reaction or exaggerated immune response 
Inflammation of the tissue surrounding the bone   
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1000 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Overactive thyroid gland 
Deterioration of brain function that is a serious complication of liver disease 
Loss of most fibers in the optic nerve, clouding of the cornea, involuntary movement of the eye 
Bullous photosensitivity 
A disorder in which the body’s immune system attacks part of the peripheral nervous system 
Heart rhythm or conduction problems (sometimes life threatening)  
Life threatening allergic reaction  
Disorder of blood clotting system 
Allergic skin reactions (sometimes severe), including rapid swelling (oedema) of the dermis, 
subcutaneous tissue, mucosa and submucosal tissues, itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with 
silvery scales of skin, irritation of the skin and mucous membranes, life-threatening skin condition that 
causes large portions of the epidermis, the skin's outermost layer, to detach from the layers of skin 
below 
Small dry scaly skin patches, sometimes thick with spikes or ‘horns’ 
Side effects with frequency not known: 
- 
Freckles and pigmented spots 
Other significant side effects whose frequency is not known, but should be reported to your doctor 
immediately: 
- 
Red, scaly patches or ring-shaped skin lesions that may be a symptom of an autoimmune disease 
called cutaneous lupus erythematosus 
As VFEND has been known to affect the liver and the kidney, your doctor should monitor the function of 
your liver and kidney by doing blood tests. Please advise your doctor if you have any stomach pains or if 
your stools have a different consistency. 
There have been reports of skin cancer in patients treated with VFEND for long periods of time. 
Sunburn or severe skin reaction following exposure to light or sun was experienced more frequently in 
children. If you or your child develops skin disorders, your doctor may refer you to a dermatologist, who 
after consultation may decide that it is important for you or your child to be seen on a regular basis. Elevated 
liver enzymes were also observed more frequently in children. 
If any of these side effects persist or are troublesome, please tell your doctor.  
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store VFEND  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label. The expiry date refers to the last 
day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What VFEND contains  
• 
• 
The active substance is voriconazole. Each tablet contains either 50 mg voriconazole (for VFEND 
50 mg film-coated tablets) or 200 mg voriconazole (for VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets).  
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, pregelatinised starch, croscarmellose sodium, 
povidone and magnesium stearate which make up the tablet core and hypromellose, titanium dioxide 
(E171), lactose monohydrate and glycerol triacetate which make up the film-coat (see section 2, 
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets or VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets contains lactose and 
sodium).  
What VFEND looks like and contents of the pack  
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets are supplied as white to off-white round film-coated tablets with Pfizer 
marked on one side and VOR50 on the reverse.  
VFEND 200 mg film-coated tablets are supplied as white to off-white capsule shaped film-coated tablets 
with Pfizer marked on one side and VOR200 on the reverse.  
VFEND 50 mg film-coated tablets and 200 mg film-coated tablets are available as packs of 2, 10, 14, 20, 28, 
30, 50, 56 and 100.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG, Boulevard de la Plaine 17, 1050 Bruxelles, Belgium.  
Manufacturers  
R-Pharm Germany GmbH  
Heinrich-Mack-Str. 35, 89257 Illertissen  
Germany  
Pfizer Italia S.r.l. 
Località Marino del Tronto 
63100 Ascoli Piceno (AP) 
Italy 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the  
Marketing Authorisation Holder:  
België /Belgique/Belgien / 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA  
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Lietuva  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL  
Filialas Lietuvoje  
Tel. +3705 2514000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България  
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333  
Magyarország  
Pfizer Kft.  
Tel. + 36 1 488 37 00 
Česká republika  
Pfizer, spol. s.r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark  
Pfizer ApS Tlf:  
+45 44 20 11 00  
Deutschland  
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
Malta  
Vivian Corporation Ltd.  
Tel : +356 21344610 
Nederland  
Pfizer bv  
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge  
Pfizer AS  
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal  
Tel: +372 666 7500  
Österreich  
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. Tel: 
+43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα  
Pfizer ΕΛΛΑΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 6785 800 
España  
Pfizer, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40  
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 3908 777 
Ireland  
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland  
Tel: 1800 633 363 (toll free) 
+44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland  
Icepharma hf.,  
Sími: + 354 540 8000  
Polska  
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.,  
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal  
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.  
Tel: + 351 214 235 500 
România  
Pfizer România S.R.L  
Tel: +40 (0)21 207 28 00 
Slovenija  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL  
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: + 386 (0)152 11 400  
Slovenská republika  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka 
Tel: +421-2-3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland  
Pfizer Oy  
Puh/Tel: +358(0)9 43 00 40 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia  
Pfizer S.r.l.  
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21  
Sverige   
Pfizer AB  
Tel: +46 (0)8 5505 2000 
Kύπρος 
Pfizer ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch)  
Τηλ: +357 22 817690 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited  
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161  
Latvija  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL  
Filiāle Latvijā  
Tel: +371 670 35 775 
This leaflet was last approved in {MM/YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
126 
 
  
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the user 
VFEND 200 mg powder for solution for infusion  
voriconazole  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you.  
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What VFEND is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take VFEND   
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use VFEND  
Possible side effects  
How to store VFEND  
Content of the pack and other information  
1.  What VFEND is and what it is used for  
VFEND contains the active substance voriconazole. VFEND is an antifungal medicine. It works by killing or 
stopping the growth of the fungi that cause infections. 
It is used for the treatment of patients (adults and children over the age of 2) with: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
invasive aspergillosis (a type of fungal infection due to Aspergillus sp), 
candidaemia (another type of fungal infection due to Candida sp) in non-neutropenic patients 
(patients without abnormally low white blood cells count), 
serious invasive Candida sp. infections when the fungus is resistant to fluconazole (another 
antifungal medicine), 
serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium sp. or Fusarium sp. (two different species of 
fungi). 
VFEND is intended for patients with worsening, possibly life-threatening, fungal infections. 
Prevention of fungal infections in high risk bone marrow transplant recipients.  
This product should only be used under the supervision of a doctor.  
2.  What you need to know before you take VFEND  
Do not take VFEND 
- 
If you are allergic to the active ingredient voriconazole, or to sulfobutylether beta cyclodextrin sodium 
(listed in section 6).  
It is very important that you inform your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have taken any other 
medicines, even those that are obtained without a prescription, or herbal medicines.  
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The medicines in the following list must not be taken during your course of VFEND treatment:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Terfenadine (used for allergy)  
Astemizole (used for allergy)  
Cisapride (used for stomach problems)  
Pimozide (used for treating mental illness)  
Quinidine (used for irregular heart beat)  
Ivabradine (used for symptoms of chronic heart failure)  
Rifampicin (used for treating tuberculosis)  
Efavirenz (used for treating HIV) in doses of 400 mg and above once daily 
Carbamazepine (used to treat seizures)  
Phenobarbital (used for severe insomnia and seizures)  
Ergot alkaloids (e.g., ergotamine, dihydroergotamine; used for migraine)  
Sirolimus (used in transplant patients)  
Ritonavir (used for treating HIV) in doses of 400mg and more twice daily  
St. John’s Wort (herbal supplement)  
Naloxegol (used to treat constipation specifically caused by pain medicines, called opioids, (e.g., 
morphine, oxycodone, fentanyl, tramadol, codeine)) 
Tolvaptan (used to treat hyponatremia (low levels of sodium in your blood) or to slow kidney function 
decline in patients with polycystic kidney disease) 
Lurasidone (used to treat depression) 
Venetoclax (used to treat patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia-CLL) 
• 
• 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking VFEND if: 
• 
• 
• 
you have had an allergic reaction to other azoles.  
you are suffering from, or have ever suffered from liver disease. If you have liver disease, your doctor 
may prescribe a lower dose of VFEND. Your doctor should also monitor your liver function while you 
are being treated with VFEND by doing blood tests.  
you are known to have cardiomyopathy, irregular heart beat, slow heart rate or an abnormality of 
electrocardiogram (ECG) called ‘long QTc syndrome’.  
You should avoid any sunlight and sun exposure while being treated. It is important to cover sun exposed 
areas of skin and use sunscreen with high sun protection factor (SPF), as an increased sensitivity of skin to 
the sun’s UV rays can occur. This may be further increased by other medicines that sensitise the skin to 
sunlight, like methotrexate. These precautions are also applicable to children. 
While being treated with VFEND:  
• 
tell your doctor immediately if you develop 
o  sunburn 
o  severe skin rash or blisters   
o  bone pain 
If you develop skin disorders as described above, your doctor may refer you to a dermatologist, who after 
consultation may decide that it is important for you to be seen on a regular basis. There is a small chance that 
skin cancer could develop with long-term use of VFEND.  
If you develop signs of ‘adrenal insufficiency’ where the adrenal glands do not produce adequate amounts of 
certain steroid hormones such as cortisol which may lead to symptoms such as: chronic, or long lasting 
fatigue, muscle weakness, loss of appetite, weight loss, abdominal pain, please tell your doctor. 
If you develop signs of ‘Cushing’s syndrome’ where the body produces too much of the hormone cortisol  
which may lead to symptoms such as: weight gain, fatty hump between the shoulders, a rounded face, 
darkening of the skin on the stomach, thighs breasts, and arms, thinning skin, bruising easily, high blood 
sugar, excessive hair growth, excessive sweating, please tell your doctor. 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your doctor should monitor the function of your liver and kidney by doing blood tests.  
Children and adolescents 
VFEND should not be given to children younger than 2 years of age.  
Other medicines and VFEND 
Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including those that are obtained without a prescription.  
Some medicines, when taken at the same time as VFEND, may affect the way VFEND works or VFEND 
may affect the way they work. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking the following medicine, as treatment with VFEND at the same time should 
be avoided if possible:  
• 
• 
Ritonavir (used for treating HIV) in doses of 100 mg twice daily  
Glasdegib (used for treating cancer) – if you need to use both drugs your doctor will monitor your 
heart rhythm frequently  
Tell your doctor if you are taking either of the following medicines, as treatment with VFEND at the same 
time should be avoided if possible, and a dose adjustment of voriconazole may be required:  
• 
• 
Rifabutin (used for treating tuberculosis). If you are already being treated with rifabutin your blood 
counts and side effects to rifabutin will need to be monitored.  
Phenytoin (used to treat epilepsy). If you are already being treated with phenytoin your blood 
concentration of phenytoin will need to be monitored during your treatment with VFEND and your 
dose may be adjusted.  
Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines, as a dose adjustment or monitoring may be 
required to check that the medicines and/ or VFEND are still having the desired effect:  
•  Warfarin and other anticoagulants (e.g., phenprocoumon, acenocoumarol; used to slow down clotting 
of the blood)  
Ciclosporin (used in transplant patients)  
Tacrolimus (used in transplant patients)  
Sulfonylureas (e.g., tolbutamide, glipizide, and glyburide) (used for diabetes)  
Statins (e.g., atorvastatin, simvastatin) (used for lowering cholesterol)  
Benzodiazepines (e.g., midazolam, triazolam) (used for severe insomnia and stress)  
Omeprazole (used for treating ulcers)  
Oral contraceptives (if you take VFEND whilst using oral contraceptives, you may get side effects 
such as nausea and menstrual disorders)  
Vinca alkaloids (e.g., vincristine and vinblastine) (used in treating cancer)  
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (e.g., axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, ceritinib, cobimetinib, dabrafenib, 
dasatinib, nilotinib, sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) (used for treating cancer) 
Tretinoin (used to treat leukaemia) 
Indinavir and other HIV protease inhibitors (used for treating HIV)  
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., efavirenz, delavirdine, nevirapine) (used for 
treating HIV) (some doses of efavirenz can NOT be taken at the same time as VFEND) 
Methadone (used to treat heroin addiction)  
Alfentanil and fentanyl and other short-acting opiates such as sufentanil (painkillers used for surgical 
procedures)  
Oxycodone and other long-acting opiates such as hydrocodone (used for moderate to severe pain) 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., ibuprofen, diclofenac) (used for treating pain and 
inflammation) 
Fluconazole (used for fungal infections) 
Everolimus (used for treating advanced kidney cancer and in transplant patients)  
Letermovir (used for preventing cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease after bone marrow transplant) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Ivacaftor: used to treat cystic fibrosis 
Flucloxacillin (antibiotic used against bacterial infections) 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
VFEND must not be used during pregnancy, unless indicated by your doctor. Effective contraception must 
be used in women of childbearing potential. Contact your doctor immediately if you become pregnant while 
being treated with VFEND.  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
VFEND may cause blurring of vision or uncomfortable sensitivity to light. While affected, do not drive or 
operate any tools or machines. Tell your doctor if you experience this.  
VFEND contains sodium 
This medicine contains 221 mg of sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) per vial. This is equivalent 
to 11% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult.  
VFEND contains cyclodextrins 
This medicine contains 3,200 mg cyclodextrins in each vial which is equivalent to 160 mg/ml when 
reconstituted in 20 ml. If you have a kidney disease, talk to your doctor before you receive this medicine.  
3. 
How to use VFEND  
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not sure.  
Your doctor will determine your dose depending on your weight and the type of infection you have.  
Your doctor may change your dose depending on your condition.  
The recommended dose for adults (including elderly patients) is as follows:  
Dose for the first 24 hours  
(Loading Dose)  
Dose after the first 24 hours  
(Maintenance Dose)  
Intravenous  
6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the  
first 24 hours  
4 mg/kg twice a day  
Depending on your response to treatment, your doctor may decrease the dose to 3 mg/kg twice daily.  
The doctor may decide to decrease the dose if you have mild to moderate cirrhosis.  
Use in children and adolescents 
The recommended dose for children and teenagers is as follows:  
Intravenous  
Children aged 2 to less than 
12 years and teenagers aged 12 to 
14 years weighing less than 50 kg 
9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the 
first 24 hours 
8 mg/kg twice a day 
Teenagers aged 12 to 14 years 
weighing 50 kg or more; and 
all teenagers older than 14 
6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the 
first 24 hours 
4 mg/kg twice a day 
Dose for the first 24 hours  
(Loading Dose) 
Dose after the first 24 hours  
(Maintenance Dose)  
Depending on your response to treatment, your doctor may increase or decrease the daily dose. 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VFEND powder for solution for infusion will be reconstituted and diluted to the correct concentration by 
your hospital pharmacist or nurse. (Please refer to the end of this leaflet for further information)    
This will be given to you by intravenous infusion (into a vein) at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour over 
1 to 3 hours. 
If you or your child are taking VFEND for prevention of fungal infections, your doctor may stop giving 
VFEND if you or your child develop treatment related side effects.  
If a dose of VFEND has been forgotten 
As you will be given this medicine under close medical supervision, it is unlikely that a dose would be 
missed. However tell your doctor or pharmacist if you think that a dose has been forgotten.  
If you stop taking VFEND  
VFEND treatment will continue for as long as your doctor advises, however duration of treatment with 
VFEND powder for solution for infusion should be no more than 6 months.  
Patients with a weakened immune system or those with difficult infections may require long-term treatment 
to prevent the infection from returning. You may be switched from the intravenous infusion to tablets once 
your condition improves.  
When VFEND treatment is stopped by your doctor you should not experience any effects.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
If any side effects occur, most are likely to be minor and temporary. However, some may be serious and 
need medical attention.  
Serious side effects – Stop taking VFEND and see a doctor immediately 
- 
- 
- 
Rash 
Jaundice; Changes in blood tests of liver function 
Pancreatitis 
Other side effects 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
-  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-  
-  
Visual impairment (change in vision including blurred vision, visual colour alterations, abnormal 
intolerance to visual perception of light, colour blindness, eye disorder, halo vision, night blindness, 
swinging vision, seeing sparks, visual aura, visual acuity reduced, visual brightness, loss of part of the 
usual field of vision, spots before the eyes)  
Fever  
Rash  
Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea  
Headache  
Swelling of the extremities  
Stomach pains  
Breathing difficulties 
Elevated liver enzymes 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Inflammation of the sinuses, inflammation of the gums, chills, weakness  
Low numbers of some types, including severe, of red (sometimes immune-related) and/or white blood 
cells (sometimes with fever), low numbers of cells called platelets that help the blood to clot  
Low blood sugar, low blood potassium, low sodium in the blood  
Anxiety, depression, confusion, agitation, inability to sleep, hallucinations  
Seizures, tremors or uncontrolled muscle movements, tingling or abnormal skin sensations, increase in 
muscle tone, sleepiness, dizziness 
Bleeding in the eye  
Heart rhythm problems including very fast heartbeat, very slow heartbeat, fainting  
Low blood pressure, inflammation of a vein (which may be associated with the formation of a blood 
clot)  
Acute breathing difficulty, chest pain, swelling of the face (mouth, lips and around eyes), fluid 
accumulation in the lungs  
Constipation, indigestion, inflammation of the lips 
Jaundice, inflammation of the liver and liver injury  
Skin rashes which may lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin characterized by a flat, red area 
on the skin that is covered with small confluent bumps, redness of the skin 
Itchiness  
Hair loss  
Back pain 
Kidney failure, blood in the urine, changes in kidney function tests 
Sunburn or severe skin reaction following exposure to light or sun 
Skin cancer  
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Flu-like symptoms, irritation and inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, inflammation of the 
gastrointestinal tract causing antibiotic associated diarrhoea, inflammation of the lymphatic vessels 
Inflammation of the thin tissue that lines the inner wall of the abdomen and covers the abdominal 
organ 
Enlarged lymph glands (sometimes painful), failure of blood marrow, increased eosinophil 
Depressed function of the adrenal gland, underactive thyroid gland 
Abnormal brain function, Parkinson-like symptoms, nerve injury resulting in numbness, pain, tingling 
or burning in the hands or feet 
Problems with balance or coordination  
Swelling of the brain   
Double vision, serious conditions of the eye including: pain and inflammation of the eyes and eyelids, 
abnormal eye movement, damage to the optic nerve resulting in vision impairment, optic disc swelling  
Decreased sensitivity to touch  
Abnormal sense of taste 
Hearing difficulties, ringing in the ears, vertigo  
Inflammation of certain internal organs- pancreas and duodenum, swelling and inflammation of the 
tongue  
Enlarged liver, liver failure, gallbladder disease, gallstones  
Joint inflammation, inflammation of the veins under the skin (which may be associated with the 
formation of a blood clot)  
Inflammation of the kidney, proteins in the urine, damage to the kidney   
Very fast heart rate or skipped heartbeats, sometimes with erratic electrical impulses 
Abnormal electrocardiogram (ECG)  
Blood cholesterol increased, blood urea increased 
Allergic skin reactions (sometimes severe), including life-threatening skin condition that causes 
painful blisters and sores of the skin and mucous membranes, especially in the mouth, inflammation of 
the skin, hives, skin redness and irritation, red or purple discoloration of the skin which may be caused 
by low platelet count, eczema 
Infusion site reaction 
132 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
Allergic reaction or exaggerated immune response 
Inflammation of the tissue surrounding the bone   
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1000 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Overactive thyroid gland 
Deterioration of brain function that is a serious complication of liver disease 
Loss of most fibers in the optic nerve, clouding of the cornea, involuntary movement of the eye 
Bullous photosensitivity 
A disorder in which the body’s immune system attacks part of the peripheral nervous system 
Heart rhythm or conduction problems (sometimes life threatening)  
Life threatening allergic reaction  
Disorder of blood clotting system 
Allergic skin reactions (sometimes severe), including rapid swelling (oedema) of the dermis, 
subcutaneous tissue, mucosa and submucosal tissues, itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with 
silvery scales of skin, irritation of the skin and mucous membranes, life-threatening skin condition that 
causes large portions of the epidermis, the skin's outermost layer, to detach from the layers of skin 
below 
Small dry scaly skin patches, sometimes thick with spikes or ‘horns’ 
Side effects with frequency not known: 
- 
Freckles and pigmented spots 
Other significant side effects whose frequency is not known, but should be reported to your doctor 
immediately: 
- 
Red, scaly patches or ring-shaped skin lesions that may be a symptom of an autoimmune disease 
called cutaneous lupus erythematosus 
Reactions during the infusion have occurred uncommonly with VFEND (including flushing, fever, sweating, 
increased heart rate and shortness of breath). Your doctor may stop the infusion if this occurs.  
As VFEND has been known to affect the liver and the kidney, your doctor should monitor the function of 
your liver and kidney by doing blood tests. Please advise your doctor if you have any stomach pains or if 
your stools have a different consistency.  
There have been reports of skin cancer in patients treated with VFEND for long periods of time.  
Sunburn or severe skin reaction following exposure to light or sun was experienced more frequently in 
children. If you or your child develops skin disorders, your doctor may refer you to a dermatologist, who 
after consultation may decide that it is important for you or your child to be seen on a regular basis. Elevated 
liver enzymes were also observed more frequently in children. 
If any of these side effects persist or are troublesome, please tell your doctor.  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store VFEND  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label. The expiry date refers to the last 
day of that month. 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Once reconstituted, VFEND should be used immediately, but if necessary may be stored for up to 24 hours 
at 2°C - 8°C (in a refrigerator). Reconstituted VFEND needs to be diluted with a compatible infusion 
solution first before it is infused. (Please refer to the end of this leaflet for further information).  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer required. These measures will help protect the environment.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What VFEND contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is voriconazole. 
The other ingredient is sulfobutylether beta cyclodextrin sodium (see section 2, VFEND 200 mg 
powder for solution for infusion contains cyclodextrin and sodium). 
Each vial contains 200 mg voriconazole, equivalent to a 10 mg/ml solution when reconstituted as directed by 
your hospital pharmacist or nurse (see the information at the end of this leaflet). 
What VFEND looks like and contents of the pack  
VFEND is presented in single use glass vials as a powder for solution for infusion.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG, Boulevard de la Plaine 17, 1050 Bruxelles, Belgium.  
Manufacturer  
Fareva Amboise, Zone Industrielle, 29 route des Industries, 37530 Pocé-sur-Cisse, France.  
For  any  information  about  this  medicinal  product,  please  contact  the  local  representative  of  the  Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:  
België /Belgique/Belgien/ 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA   
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Lietuva  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL  
Filialas Lietuvoje  
Tel. +3705 2514000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България  
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333  
Magyarország  
Pfizer Kft.  
Tel. + 36 1 488 37 00 
Česká republika  
Pfizer, spol. s.r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark  
Pfizer ApS Tlf:  
+45 44 20 11 00  
Deutschland  
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
Malta  
Vivian Corporation Ltd.  
Tel : +356 21344610 
Nederland  
Pfizer bv  
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge  
Pfizer AS  
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal  
Tel: +372 666 7500  
Österreich  
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. Tel: 
+43 (0)1 521 15-0 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα  
Pfizer ΕΛΛΑΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 6785 800 
España  
Pfizer, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40  
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 3908 777 
Ireland  
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland  
Tel: 1800 633 363 (toll free) 
+44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland  
Icepharma hf.,  
Sími: + 354 540 8000  
Italia  
Pfizer S.r.l.  
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21  
Polska  
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.,  
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal  
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.  
Tel: + 351 214 235 500 
România  
Pfizer România S.R.L  
Tel: +40 (0)21 207 28 00 
Slovenija  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL  
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: + 386 (0)152 11 400  
Slovenská republika  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka 
Tel: +421-2-3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland  
Pfizer Oy  
Puh/Tel: +358(0)9 43 00 40 
Sverige   
Pfizer AB  
Tel: +46 (0)8 5505 2000 
Kύπρος 
Pfizer ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch)  
Τηλ: +357 22 817690 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)  
Pfizer Limited  
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161  
Latvija  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL  
Filiāle Latvijā  
Tel: +371 670 35 775 
This leaflet was last approved in {MM/YYYY}.  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
<----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only:  
Reconstitution and Dilution information  
• 
VFEND powder for solution for infusion needs to first be reconstituted with either 19 ml of Water for 
Injections or 19 ml of 9 mg/ml (0.9%) Sodium Chloride for Infusion to obtain an extractable volume 
of 20 ml of clear concentrate containing 10 mg/ml voriconazole.  
Discard the VFEND vial if the vacuum does not pull the diluent into the vial.  
It is recommended that a standard 20 ml (non-automated) syringe be used to ensure that the exact 
amount (19.0 ml) of Water for Injections or of 9 mg/ml (0.9%) Sodium Chloride for Infusion is 
dispensed.  
• 
• 
135 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The required volume of the reconstituted concentrate is then added to a recommended compatible 
infusion solution listed below to obtain a final VFEND solution containing 0.5 to 5 mg/ml of 
voriconazole.  
This medicinal product is for single use only and any unused solution should be discarded and only 
clear solutions without particles should be used.  
Not for administration as a bolus injection.  
For storage information, please refer to Section 5 ‘How to store VFEND’.  
Required Volumes of 10 mg/ml VFEND Concentrate  
Body 
Weight 
(kg)  
10  
15  
20  
25  
30  
35  
40  
45  
50  
55  
60  
65  
70  
75  
80  
85  
90  
95  
100  
3 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials)  
- 
- 
- 
- 
9.0 ml (1)  
10.5 ml (1)  
12.0 ml (1)  
13.5 ml (1)  
15.0 ml (1)  
16.5 ml (1)  
18.0 ml (1)  
19.5 ml (1)  
21.0 ml (2)  
22.5 ml (2)  
24.0 ml (2)  
25.5 ml (2)  
27.0 ml (2)  
28.5 ml (2)  
30.0 ml (2)  
Volume of VFEND Concentrate (10 mg/ml) required for: 
6 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials)  
- 
- 
- 
- 
18.0 ml (1)  
21.0 ml (2)  
24.0 ml (2)  
27.0 ml (2)  
30.0 ml (2)  
33.0 ml (2)  
36.0 ml (2)  
39.0 ml (2)  
42.0 ml (3)  
45.0 ml (3)  
48.0 ml (3)  
51.0 ml (3)  
54.0 ml (3)  
57.0 ml (3)  
60.0 ml (3)  
4 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials)  
4.0 ml (1)  
6.0 ml (1)  
8.0 ml (1)  
10.0 ml (1)  
12.0 ml (1)  
14.0 ml (1)  
16.0 ml (1)  
18.0 ml (1)  
20.0 ml (1)  
22.0 ml (2)  
24.0 ml (2)  
26.0 ml (2)  
28.0 ml (2)  
30.0 ml (2)  
32.0 ml (2)  
34.0 ml (2)  
36.0 ml (2)  
38.0 ml (2)  
40.0 ml (2)  
8 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials)  
8.0 ml (1)  
12.0 ml (1)  
16.0 ml (1)  
20.0 ml (1)  
24.0 ml (2)  
28.0 ml (2)  
32.0 ml (2)  
36.0 ml (2)  
40.0 ml (2)  
44.0 ml (3)  
48.0 ml (3)  
52.0 ml (3)  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
9 mg/kg dose 
(number of 
vials) 
9.0 ml (1)  
13.5 ml (1)  
18.0 ml (1)  
22.5 ml (2)  
27.0 ml (2)  
31.5 ml (2)  
36.0 ml (2)  
40.5 ml (3)  
45.0 ml (3)  
49.5 ml (3)  
54.0 ml (3)  
58.5 ml (3) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
VFEND is a single dose unpreserved sterile lyophile. Therefore, from a microbiological point of view, the 
reconstituted solution must be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and 
conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 
2 to 8°C, unless reconstitution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions.  
Compatible Infusion Solutions:  
The reconstituted solution can be diluted with:  
Sodium Chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) Solution for Injection 
Compound Sodium Lactate Intravenous Infusion  
5% Glucose and Lactated Ringer’s Intravenous Infusion  
5% Glucose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Intravenous Infusion  
5% Glucose Intravenous Infusion  
5% Glucose in 20 mEq Potassium Chloride Intravenous Infusion  
0.45% Sodium Chloride Intravenous Infusion  
5% Glucose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Intravenous Infusion  
The compatibility of VFEND with diluents other than listed above (or listed below under ‘Incompatibilities’) 
is unknown. 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incompatibilities:  
VFEND must not be infused into the same line or cannula concomitantly with other drug infusions, 
including parenteral nutrition (e.g., Aminofusin 10% Plus). 
Infusions of blood products must not occur simultaneously with VFEND.  
Infusion of total parenteral nutrition can occur simultaneously with VFEND but not in the same line or 
cannula.  
VFEND must not be diluted with 4.2% Sodium Bicarbonate Infusion.   
137 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the user  
VFEND 40 mg/ml powder for oral suspension  
voriconazole  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you.  
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
• 
What is in this leaflet  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6  
What VFEND is and what it is used for  
What you need to know before you take VFEND  
How to take VFEND  
Possible side effects  
How to store VFEND  
Content of the pack and other information  
1.  What VFEND is and what it is used for  
VFEND contains the active substance voriconazole. VFEND is an antifungal medicine. It works by killing or 
stopping the growth of the fungi that cause infections. 
It is used for the treatment of patients (adults and children over the age of 2) with: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
invasive aspergillosis (a type of fungal infection due to Aspergillus sp), 
candidaemia (another type of fungal infection due to Candida sp) in non-neutropenic patients 
(patients without abnormally low white blood cells count), 
serious invasive Candida sp. infections when the fungus is resistant to fluconazole (another 
antifungal medicine), 
serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium sp. or Fusarium sp. (two different species of 
fungi). 
VFEND is intended for patients with worsening, possibly life-threatening, fungal infections. 
Prevention of fungal infections in high risk bone marrow transplant recipients.  
This product should only be taken under the supervision of a doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you take VFEND  
Do not take VFEND 
If you are allergic to voriconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
It is very important that you inform your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have taken any other 
medicines, even those that are obtained without a prescription, or herbal medicines.  
The medicines in the following list must not be taken during your course of VFEND treatment:  
• 
• 
Terfenadine (used for allergy)  
Astemizole (used for allergy)  
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Cisapride (used for stomach problems)  
Pimozide (used for treating mental illness)  
Quinidine (used for irregular heart beat)  
Ivabradine (used for symptoms of chronic heart failure)  
Rifampicin (used for treating tuberculosis)  
Efavirenz (used for treating HIV) in doses of 400 mg and above once daily 
Carbamazepine (used to treat seizures)   
Phenobarbital (used for severe insomnia and seizures)  
Ergot alkaloids (e.g., ergotamine, dihydroergotamine; used for migraine)  
Sirolimus (used in transplant patients)  
Ritonavir (used for treating HIV) in doses of 400mg and more twice daily  
St. John’s Wort (herbal supplement)  
Naloxegol (used to treat constipation specifically caused by pain medicines, called opioids, (e.g., 
morphine, oxycodone, fentanyl, tramadol, codeine)) 
Tolvaptan (used to treat hyponatremia (low levels of sodium in your blood) or to slow kidney function 
decline in patients with polycystic kidney disease) 
Lurasidone (used to treat depression)Venetoclax (used to treat patients with chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia-CLL) 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking VFEND if: 
• 
• 
• 
you have had an allergic reaction to other azoles.  
you are suffering from, or have ever suffered from liver disease. If you have liver disease, your doctor 
may prescribe a lower dose of VFEND. Your doctor should also monitor your liver function while you 
are being treated with VFEND by doing blood tests.  
you are known to have cardiomyopathy, irregular heart beat, slow heart rate or an abnormality of 
electrocardiogram (ECG) called ‘long QTc syndrome’.  
You should avoid any sunlight and sun exposure while being treated. It is important to cover sun exposed 
areas of skin and use sunscreen with high sun protection factor (SPF), as an increased sensitivity of skin to 
the sun’s UV rays can occur. This may be further increased by other medicines that sensitise the skin to 
sunlight, like methotrexate. These precautions are also applicable to children. 
While being treated with VFEND:  
• 
tell your doctor immediately if you develop 
o  sunburn 
o  severe skin rash or blisters  
o  bone pain  
If you develop skin disorders as described above, your doctor may refer you to a dermatologist, who after 
consultation may decide that it is important for you to be seen on a regular basis. There is a small chance that 
skin cancer could develop with long-term use of VFEND.  
If you develop signs of ‘adrenal insufficiency’ where the adrenal glands do not produce adequate amounts of 
certain steroid hormones such as cortisol which may lead to symptoms such as: chronic, or long lasting 
fatigue, muscle weakness, loss of appetite, weight loss, abdominal pain, please tell your doctor. 
If you develop signs of ‘Cushing’s syndrome’ where the body produces too much of the hormone cortisol  
which may lead to symptoms such as: weight gain, fatty hump between the shoulders, a rounded face, 
darkening of the skin on the stomach, thighs breasts, and arms, thinning skin, bruising easily, high blood 
sugar, excessive hair growth, excessive sweating, please tell your doctor. 
Your doctor should monitor the function of your liver and kidney by doing blood tests.  
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
VFEND should not be given to children younger than 2 years of age.  
Other medicines and VFEND 
Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including those that are obtained without a prescription.  
Some medicines, when taken at the same time as VFEND, may affect the way VFEND works or VFEND 
may affect the way they work.  
Tell your doctor if you are taking the following medicine, as treatment with VFEND at the same time should 
be avoided if possible:  
• 
• 
Ritonavir (used for treating HIV) in doses of 100 mg twice daily  
Glasdegib (used for treating cancer) – if you need to use both drugs your doctor will monitor your 
heart rhythm frequently  
Tell your doctor if you are taking either of the following medicines, as treatment with VFEND at the same 
time should be avoided if possible, and a dose adjustment of voriconazole may be required:  
• 
• 
Rifabutin (used for treating tuberculosis). If you are already being treated with rifabutin your blood 
counts and side effects to rifabutin will need to be monitored.   
Phenytoin (used to treat epilepsy). If you are already being treated with phenytoin your blood 
concentration of phenytoin will need to be monitored during your treatment with VFEND and your 
dose may be adjusted.  
Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines, as a dose adjustment or monitoring may be 
required to check that the medicines and/ or VFEND are still having the desired effect:  
•  Warfarin and other anticoagulants (e.g., phenprocoumon, acenocoumarol; used to   slow down clotting 
of the blood)  
Ciclosporin (used in transplant patients)  
Tacrolimus (used in transplant patients)  
Sulfonylureas (e.g., tolbutamide, glipizide, and glyburide) (used for diabetes)  
Statins (e.g., atorvastatin, simvastatin) (used for lowering cholesterol)  
Benzodiazepines (e.g., midazolam, triazolam) (used for severe insomnia and stress)  
Omeprazole (used for treating ulcers)  
Oral contraceptives (if you take VFEND whilst using oral contraceptives, you may get side effects 
such as nausea and menstrual disorders)  
Vinca alkaloids (e.g., vincristine and vinblastine) (used in treating cancer)  
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (e.g., axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, ceritinib, cobimetinib, dabrafenib, 
dasatinib, nilotinib, sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) (used for treating cancer) 
Tretinoin (used to treat leukaemia)  
Indinavir and other HIV protease inhibitors (used for treating HIV)  
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., efavirenz, delavirdine, nevirapine) (used for 
treating HIV) (some doses of efavirenz can NOT be taken at the same time as VFEND) 
Methadone (used to treat heroin addiction)  
Alfentanil and fentanyl and other short-acting opiates such as sufentanil (painkillers used for surgical 
procedures) 
Oxycodone and other long-acting opiates such as hydrocodone (used for moderate to severe pain) 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., ibuprofen, diclofenac) (used for treating pain and 
inflammation) 
Fluconazole (used for fungal infections) 
Everolimus (used for treating advanced kidney cancer and in transplant patients) 
Letermovir (used for preventing cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease after bone marrow transplant) 
Ivacaftor: used to treat cystic fibrosis 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Flucloxacillin (antibiotic used against bacterial infections) 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
VFEND must not be taken during pregnancy, unless indicated by your doctor. Effective contraception must 
be used in women of childbearing potential. Contact your doctor immediately if you become pregnant while 
taking VFEND.  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
VFEND may cause blurring of vision or uncomfortable sensitivity to light. While affected, do not drive or 
operate any tools or machines. Contact your doctor if you experience this.  
VFEND contains sucrose 
This medicine contains 0.54g sucrose per ml of suspension. If you have been told by your doctor that you 
have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking VFEND. This should be taken into 
account in patients with diabetes mellitus. May be harmful to the teeth. 
VFEND contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 5 ml of suspension, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
VFEND contains benzoate salt/sodium 
This medicine contains 12 mg benzoate salt (E211) in each 5 ml dose.  
3. 
How to take VFEND  
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you 
are not sure.  
Your doctor will determine your dose depending on your weight and the type of infection you have.  
The recommended dose for adults (including elderly patients) is as follows:  
Dose for the first 24 hours  
(Loading Dose)  
Dose after the first 24 hours 
(Maintenance Dose)  
Oral suspension  
Patients 40 kg and above 
400 mg (10 ml) every 12 
hours for the first 24 hours 
Patients less than 40 kg 
200 mg (5 ml) every 12 
hours for the first 24 hours 
200 mg (5 ml) twice a day 
100 mg (2.5 ml) twice a day 
Depending on your response to treatment, your doctor may increase the daily dose to 300 mg twice a day.  
The doctor may decide to decrease the dose if you have mild to moderate cirrhosis.  
141 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use in children and adolescents 
The recommended dose for children and teenagers is as follows: 
Dose for the first 24 hours  
(Loading Dose) 
Dose after the first 24 hours  
(Maintenance Dose) 
Oral suspension  
Children aged 2 to less than 
12 years and teenagers aged 12 to 
14 years weighing less than 50 kg 
Your treatment will be started as 
an infusion 
9 mg/kg twice a day 
(a maximum dose of 350 mg 
twice daily) 
Teenagers aged 12 to 14 years 
weighing 50 kg or more; and 
all teenagers older than 14 
400 mg every 12 hours for the 
first 24 hours 
200 mg twice a day 
Depending on your response to treatment, your doctor may increase or decrease the daily dose. 
Take your suspension at least one hour before, or two hours after a meal. 
If you or your child are taking VFEND for prevention of fungal infections, your doctor may stop giving 
VFEND if you or your child develop treatment related side effects.  
VFEND suspension should not be mixed with any other medicine. The suspension should not be further 
diluted with water or any other liquids.  
Instructions to constitute the suspension:  
It is recommended that your pharmacist constitutes VFEND suspension before giving it to you. 
VFEND suspension is constituted if it is in a liquid form. If it appears to be a dry powder you should 
constitute the oral suspension by following the instructions below.  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Tap the bottle to release the powder.  
Remove the cap.  
Add 2 measuring cups (measure cup included in the carton) of water (total of 46 ml) to the bottle. Fill 
the measuring cup to the top of the marked line then pour the water into the bottle. You should always 
add a total of 46 ml of water irrespective of the dose you are taking.  
Replace the cap and shake the bottle vigorously for about 1 minute. Following constitution, the total 
volume of the suspension must be 75 ml. 
Remove the cap. Press the bottle adaptor into the neck of the bottle (as shown on figure below). The 
adaptor is provided so that you can fill the oral syringe with medicine from the bottle. Replace the cap 
on the bottle.  
6.  Write the date of expiry of the constituted suspension on the bottle label (the shelf-life of the 
constituted suspension is 14 days). Any unused suspension should be discarded after this date. 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use:  
Your pharmacist should advise you how to measure the medicine using the multi-dosing oral syringe 
provided in the pack. Please see instructions below before using VFEND suspension.  
1. 
Shake the closed bottle of constituted suspension for approximately 10 seconds before use. Remove 
the cap.  
2.  While the bottle is upright, on a flat surface, insert the tip of the oral syringe into the adaptor.  
3. 
Turn the bottle upside down while holding the oral syringe in place. Slowly pull back the   plunger of 
the oral syringe to the graduation mark that marks the dose for you. To measure the dose accurately, 
the top edge of the black ring should be lined up with the graduated mark on the oral syringe.  
If large bubbles can be seen, slowly push the plunger back into the syringe. This will force the 
medicine back into the bottle. Repeat step 3 again.   
Turn the bottle back upright with the oral syringe still in place. Remove the oral syringe from the 
bottle.  
Put the tip of the oral syringe into the mouth. Point the tip of the oral syringe towards the inside of the 
cheek. SLOWLY push down the plunger of the oral syringe. Do not squirt the medicine out quickly. If 
the medicine is to be given to a child, make sure the child is sitting, or is held, upright before giving 
the medicine. 
Replace the cap on the bottle, leaving the bottle adaptor in place. Wash the oral syringe as instructed 
below.  
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
 1  
   2  
      3/4     
            5  
           6 
Cleaning and storing the syringe:  
1. 
The syringe should be washed after each dose. Pull the plunger out of the syringe and wash both parts 
in warm soapy water. Then rinse with water.  
Dry the two parts. Push the plunger back in to the syringe. Keep it in a clean safe place with the 
medicine.  
2. 
If you take more VFEND than you should 
If you take more suspension than prescribed (or if someone else takes your suspension) you must seek 
medical advice or go to the nearest hospital casualty department immediately. Take your bottle of VFEND 
suspension with you. You may experience abnormal intolerance to light as a result of taking more VFEND 
than you should. 
If you forget to take VFEND 
It is important to take your VFEND suspension regularly at the same time each day. If you forget to take one 
dose, take your next dose when it is due. Do not take a double dose to make up for the forgotten dose.  
If you stop taking VFEND 
It has been shown that taking all doses at the appropriate times may greatly increase the effectiveness of your 
medicine. Therefore unless your doctor instructs you to stop treatment, it is important to keep taking VFEND 
correctly, as described above.  
Continue taking VFEND until your doctor tells you to stop. Do not stop treatment early because your 
infection may not be cured. Patients with a weakened immune system or those with difficult infections may 
require long-term treatment to prevent the infection from returning.  
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When VFEND treatment is stopped by your doctor you should not experience any effects.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
If any side effects occur, most are likely to be minor and temporary. However, some may be serious and 
need medical attention.  
Serious side effects – Stop taking VFEND and see a doctor immediately 
- 
- 
- 
Rash 
Jaundice; Changes in blood tests of liver function 
Pancreatitis 
Other side effects 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
-  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-  
-  
Visual impairment (change in vision including blurred vision, visual colour alterations, abnormal 
intolerance to visual perception of light, colour blindness, eye disorder, halo vision, night blindness, 
swinging vision, seeing sparks, visual aura, visual acuity reduced, visual brightness, loss of part of the 
usual field of vision, spots before the eyes)  
Fever  
Rash  
Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea  
Headache  
Swelling of the extremities  
Stomach pains  
Breathing difficulties 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Inflammation of the sinuses, inflammation of the gums, chills, weakness  
Low numbers of some types, including severe, of red (sometimes immune-related) and/or white blood 
cells (sometimes with fever), low numbers of cells called platelets that help the blood to clot  
Low blood sugar, low blood potassium, low sodium in the blood  
Anxiety, depression, confusion, agitation, inability to sleep, hallucinations  
Seizures, tremors or uncontrolled muscle movements, tingling or abnormal skin sensations, increase in 
muscle tone, sleepiness, dizziness 
Bleeding in the eye  
Heart rhythm problems including very fast heartbeat, very slow heartbeat, fainting  
Low blood pressure, inflammation of a vein (which may be associated with the formation of a blood 
clot)  
Acute breathing difficulty, chest pain, swelling of the face (mouth, lips and around eyes), fluid 
accumulation in the lungs  
Constipation, indigestion, inflammation of the lips 
Jaundice, inflammation of the liver and liver injury  
Skin rashes which may lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin characterized by a flat, red area 
on the skin that is covered with small confluent bumps, redness of the skin 
Itchiness  
Hair loss  
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Back pain 
Kidney failure, blood in the urine, changes in kidney function tests 
Sunburn or severe skin reaction following exposure to light or sun 
Skin cancer  
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Flu-like symptoms, irritation and inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, inflammation of the 
gastrointestinal tract causing antibiotic associated diarrhoea, inflammation of the lymphatic vessels 
Inflammation of the thin tissue that lines the inner wall of the abdomen and covers the abdominal 
organ 
Enlarged lymph glands (sometimes painful), failure of blood marrow, increased eosinophil 
Depressed function of the adrenal gland, underactive thyroid gland 
Abnormal brain function, Parkinson-like symptoms, nerve injury resulting in numbness, pain, tingling 
or burning in the hands or feet 
Problems with balance or coordination  
Swelling of the brain   
Double vision, serious conditions of the eye including: pain and inflammation of the eyes and eyelids, 
abnormal eye movement, damage to the optic nerve resulting in vision impairment, optic disc swelling  
Decreased sensitivity to touch  
Abnormal sense of taste 
Hearing difficulties, ringing in the ears, vertigo  
Inflammation of certain internal organs- pancreas and duodenum, swelling and inflammation of the 
tongue  
Enlarged liver, liver failure, gallbladder disease, gallstones  
Joint inflammation, inflammation of the veins under the skin (which may be associated with the 
formation of a blood clot)  
Inflammation of the kidney, proteins in the urine, damage to the kidney  
Very fast heart rate or skipped heartbeats, sometimes with erratic electrical impulses 
Abnormal electrocardiogram (ECG)  
Blood cholesterol increased, blood urea increased 
Allergic skin reactions (sometimes severe), including life-threatening skin condition that causes 
painful blisters and sores of the skin and mucous membranes, especially in the mouth, inflammation of 
the skin, hives, skin redness and irritation, red or purple discoloration of the skin which may be caused 
by low platelet count, eczema 
Infusion site reaction 
Allergic reaction or exaggerated immune response 
Inflammation of the tissue surrounding the bone   
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1000 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Overactive thyroid gland 
Deterioration of brain function that is a serious complication of liver disease 
Loss of most fibers in the optic nerve, clouding of the cornea, involuntary movement of the eye 
Bullous photosensitivity 
A disorder in which the body’s immune system attacks part of the peripheral nervous system 
Heart rhythm or conduction problems (sometimes life threatening)  
Life threatening allergic reaction  
Disorder of blood clotting system 
Allergic skin reactions (sometimes severe), including rapid swelling (oedema) of the dermis, 
subcutaneous tissue, mucosa and submucosal tissues, itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with 
silvery scales of skin, irritation of the skin and mucous membranes, life-threatening skin condition that 
causes large portions of the epidermis, the skin's outermost layer, to detach from the layers of skin 
below 
Small dry scaly skin patches, sometimes thick with spikes or ‘horns’ 
Side effects with frequency not known: 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Freckles and pigmented spots 
Other significant side effects whose frequency is not known, but should be reported to your doctor 
immediately: 
- 
Red, scaly patches or ring-shaped skin lesions that may be a symptom of an autoimmune disease 
called cutaneous lupus erythematosus 
As VFEND has been known to affect the liver and the kidney, your doctor should monitor the function of 
your liver and kidney by doing blood tests. Please advise your doctor if you have any stomach pains or if 
your stools have a different consistency.  
There have been reports of skin cancer in patients treated with VFEND for long periods of time.  
Sunburn or severe skin reaction following exposure to light or sun was experienced more frequently in 
children. If you or your child develops skin disorders, your doctor may refer you to a dermatologist, who 
after consultation may decide that it is important for you or your child to be seen on a regular basis. Elevated 
liver enzymes were also observed more frequently in children. 
If any of these side effects persist or are troublesome, please tell your doctor.  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store VFEND  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label. The expiry date refers to the last 
day of that month. 
Powder for oral suspension: store at 2°C - 8°C (in a refrigerator) before constitution. 
For the constituted suspension: 
Do not store above 30°C.  
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
Store in the original container  
Keep the container tightly closed. 
Any remaining suspension should be discarded 14 days after constitution.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer required. These measures will help protect the environment.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What VFEND contains:  
- 
The active substance is voriconazole. Each bottle contains 45 g of powder providing 70 ml of 
suspension when constituted with water as recommended. One ml of the constituted suspension 
contains 40 mg voriconazole. (See section 3 ‘How to take VFEND’).  
The other ingredients are sucrose; silica colloidal; titanium dioxide; xanthan gum; sodium citrate; 
sodium benzoate; citric acid; natural orange flavour (see section 2, VFEND 40 mg/ml powder for oral 
suspension contains sucrose, benzoate salt (sodium benzoate) and sodium).  
- 
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What VFEND looks like and contents of the pack  
VFEND is supplied as a white to off-white powder for oral suspension providing a white to off-white, orange 
flavoured suspension when constituted with water. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG, Boulevard de la Plaine 17, 1050 Bruxelles, Belgium.  
Manufacturer  
Fareva Amboise, Zone Industrielle, 29 route des Industries, 37530 Pocé-sur-Cisse, France.  
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:  
België /Belgique/Belgien/ 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA   
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Lietuva  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL  
Filialas Lietuvoje  
Tel. +3705 2514000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България  
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333  
Magyarország  
Pfizer Kft.  
Tel. + 36 1 488 37 00 
Česká republika  
Pfizer, spol. s.r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark  
Pfizer ApS Tlf:  
+45 44 20 11 00  
Deutschland  
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
Malta  
Vivian Corporation Ltd.  
Tel : +356 21344610 
Nederland  
Pfizer bv  
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge  
Pfizer AS  
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal  
Tel: +372 666 7500  
Österreich  
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. Tel: +43 
(0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα  
Pfizer ΕΛΛΑΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 6785 800 
España  
Pfizer, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40  
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 3908 777 
Polska  
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.,  
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal  
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.  
Tel: + 351 214 235 500 
România  
Pfizer România S.R.L  
Tel: +40 (0)21 207 28 00 
Slovenija  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL  
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: + 386(0)152 11 400  
147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Ireland  
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland  
Tel: 1800 633 363 (toll free) 
+44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland  
Icepharm hf.,  
Sími: + 354 540 8000  
Italia  
Pfizer S.r.l.  
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21  
Slovenská republika  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka 
Tel: +421-2-3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland  
Pfizer Oy  
Puh/Tel: +358(0)9 43 00 40 
Sverige   
Pfizer AB  
Tel: +46 (0)8 5505 2000 
Kύπρος 
Pfizer ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch)  
Τηλ: +357 22 817690 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)  
Pfizer Limited  
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161  
Latvija  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL  
Filiāle Latvijā  
Tel: +371 670 35 775 
This leaflet was last approved in {MM/YYYY}.  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
148 
 
 
  
 
 
 
