This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Vfend.  For  information  on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8B. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
This  centralised  procedure  concerns  Vfend  film-coated  tablets  and  powder  for  solution  for  infusion 
(10 mg/ml  after  reconstitution)  with  the  new  active  antimycotic  substance  voriconazole.  This  new 
systemic antimycotic agent is a triazole derivative.  
N
N
N
CH3
F
OH
F
N
N
F
voriconazole 
A  new  excipient  sulphobutylether  beta-cyclodextrin  sodium  (SBECD)  is  used  in  the  parenteral 
formulation to  enhance the solubility  of  voriconazole. Voriconazole is  complexed  with SBECD  and 
the concentration of SBECD in the reconstituted voriconazole solution for injection is 160 mg/ml  
The approved indications include: 
•  Treatment of  invasive aspergillosis 
•  Treatment of candidemia in non-neutropenic patients. 
•  Treatment of fluconazole-resistant serious invasive Candida infections (including C. krusei) 
•  Treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium spp. and Fusarium spp. 
 Posology: 
Loading Dose 
Regimen 
(first 24 hours) 
Intravenous 
Oral 
Patients 40 kg and above  Patients less than 40 kg 
6 mg/kg every 12 hours 
(for the first 24 hours) 
400 mg every 12 hours    
(for the first 24 hours) 
200 mg every 12 hours 
(for the first 24 hours) 
Maintenance Dose 
4 mg/kg twice daily 
200 mg twice daily 
100 mg twice daily 
(after first 24 hours) 
Voriconazole is a  novel triazole antifungal agent shown to  have in vitro activity against Aspergillus 
and  Candida  species.  Voriconazole  represents  a  therapeutic  alternative  especially  with  regard  to 
amphotericin B characterised by a nephrotoxicity of concern in clinical practice. 
1/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Film-coated tablets: 
Voriconazole is presented as immediate release - white film-coated tablets (debossed “Pfizer” on one 
side and “VOR50” or “VOR200” as appropriate on the reverse)  available in two strengths, 50 mg and 
200 mg.  The tablet core contains lactose monohydrate, pregelatinised starch, croscarmellose sodium, 
povidone and magnesium stearate.  The tablet core is coated with an Opadry aqueous film coat which 
consists  of  hypromellose,  titanium  dioxide  (E171),  lactose  monohydrate  and  glycerol  triacetate.  
Tablets are packaged in either PVC blisters with aluminium lidding foil or HDPE bottles. 
Powder for solution for infusion: 
Voriconazole  is  also  presented  as  a  lyophilised  sterile  powder  for  solution  for  infusion  to  be 
reconstituted  and  diluted  prior  to  administration.    There  is  only  one  parenteral  presentation,  a  vial 
containing 200mg voriconazole, equivalent to a 10mg/ml solution when reconstituted.  The powder for 
solution for infusion consists of voriconazole and SBECD. 
Each vial has an overfill of 1.13 ml to allow an extractable volume of 20 ml, corresponding to 200 mg 
voriconazole, when reconstituted.   After  reconstitution  with 19  ml  water  for injections, the  resultant 
solution contains 10 mg voriconazole per ml. 
This parenteral product is presented as a powder in clear colourless Type I glass vials (30 ml capacity) 
closed  with  siliconised  chlorobutyl-isoprene  stoppers  and  sealed  with  polypropylene/aluminium 
overseals. 
Active substance 
The  active  substance,  voriconazole,  is  (2R,3S)-2-(2,4-difluorophenyl)-3-(5-fluoro-4-pyrimidinyl)-1-
(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-2-butanol  (laboratory  code  UK-109,496).  The  structure  of  voriconazole  has 
been confirmed by combustion analysis, MS, IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR and 19F NMR, single crystal X-
ray  crystallography.  It is a  weak base, is not  hygroscopic and is  classified as a low solubility,  high 
permeability  compound.  Voriconazole  is  a  crystalline  powder.  Investigations  into  its  solid-state 
properties revealed no evidence of either polymorphism or solvates. 
Voriconazole is produced by organic synthesis.     
Satisfactory  control  specifications  are  provided  for  the  active  substance,  starting  materials,  key 
intermediates, reagents and solvents. 
All analytical methods have been submitted as well as validation data, in accordance with the relevant 
Note for Guidance. 
Based  upon  the  qualification  limits  for  the  specified  impurities  the  specification  is  acceptable, 
although  specification  requirements  may  be  tightened  or  justified  once  full-scale  batches  of  drug 
product have been produced. 
Batch analysis results of more than twenty commercial scale batches produced at the three proposed 
production sites confirm satisfactory uniformity and compliance with the specification. 
The  stability  of  voriconazole  has  been  examined  under  a  variety  of  stress  testing  conditions.  
Degradation occurs in aqueous solution, particularly under basic conditions.  Photodegradation takes 
place  under severe light stress  conditions.  Oxidative  degradation also takes place.  The  degradation 
products have been identified. 
Real-time  and  accelerated  stability  studies  have  been  performed  on  voriconazole.    No  significant 
changes in any parameter were observed. The proposed retest period of 3 years is justified. 
Other ingredients 
Film-coated tablets: 
The  excipients  are  conventional  and  all  comply  with  the  appropriate  monographs  and  specification 
requirements of the current PhEur except for the proprietary film-coating (Opadry).  However, all the 
components of the Opadry powder comply with their respective current PhEur Monographs. 
2/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Lactose  monohydrate  is  classified  as  a  Category  IV  excipient  in  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on 
minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products 
CPMP/BWP/1230/98.  The applicant states that all other ingredients including the magnesium stearate 
are  of  vegetable  or  of  synthetic  origin  and  do  not  contain  any  material  of  bovine  ovine  or  caprine 
derivation. 
Satisfactory  control  specifications  are  provided  for  the  primary  packaging  materials  for  both  the 
blisters and bottles. 
Powder for solution for infusion: 
The  other ingredients  used in the  manufacture  of the  parenteral product  are  water  for injections  and 
nitrogen that is used prior to stoppering.  The  water  for injections and the  nitrogen  comply  with the 
current relevant PhEur monographs. 
SBECD is a new  excipient and data have been submitted in accordance  with the Note  for Guidance 
‘Excipients in the dossier for application for Marketing Authorization of a Medical Product’.  SBECD 
-D-glucopyranose 
is  a  derivative  of  beta-cyclodextrin  and  is  a  chiral  molecule  composed  of  seven 
units.    The  stereochemistry  is  maintained  during  derivatization  of  the  starting  material  beta-
cyclodextrin. 
α
The  synthesis  of  SBECD,  from  beta-cyclodextrin  and  1,4-butane  sultone  is  described.  All  the 
specifications,  in-process  controls  and  analytical  methods  (with  their  associated  validation)  are 
satisfactory.  Several techniques were used to determine the structure of SBECD. 
The limits proposed for the impurities are justified by reference to batch and toxicological data. 
The applicant has committed to attempt to find an alternative route of synthesis for SBECD, in order 
to avoid the  presence  of 1,4 butane sultone in SBECD.  Meanwhile, the limit for 1,4-butane sultone 
will  be  reduced  to  less  than  1 ppm.    Should  an  alternative  route  of  synthesis  not  be  possible, 
alternative formulations will be considered after discussion with CPMP.  Additionally, batch analyses 
data  for the  first  three production batches of SBECD, and associated stability  data, will be provided 
when these data become available. 
A 3-year retest period has been proposed and justified for SBECD in the specified packaging. 
The primary packaging for Vfend powder for solution for infusion consists of 30 ml clear, colourless, 
Type I glass vials with grey siliconised chlorobutyl-isoprene rubber stoppers and overseals consisting 
of  flip-off polypropylene  caps and aluminium lacquered seals. Satisfactory  control specifications are 
provided. 
Product development and finished product 
Film-coated tablets: 
Several formulations were produced during the development, which led to the tablet composition. The 
manufacturing  process  has  been  well  described  and  the  critical  process  parameters  identified.    In-
process controls are described and justified. The manufacturing process is typical for a wet granulated 
film-coated  formulation.   Both  tablet  strengths  are  manufactured  from  the  same  granulate  (common 
blend).  A typical batch size is 150 kg. Validation data from the first three production batches will be 
provided. 
All  specifications  are  acceptable.  All  the  methods  of  analysis  are  satisfactorily  described  and 
validated, in accordance with the relevant Notes for Guidance.  
Batch analyses data have been provided for batches ranging from laboratory to pilot production scale.  
These  data  demonstrate  both  compliance  with  the  proposed  specifications  and  consistency  of 
manufacture.   After  granting a  Marketing Authorisation the batch analysis data  of the  first three  full 
production scale batches for each strength should be submitted. 
Powder for solution for infusion: 
Voriconazole  is  a  weak  base  and  only  slightly  soluble  in  water  over  the  acceptable  pH  range.  By 
forming  inclusion  complexes  with  derivatised  cyclodextrins  (SBECD)  the  target  solubility  was 
reached that had not been possible with conventional pharmaceutical approaches.   
3/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
SBECD  was  used  at  a  minimum  concentration  to  achieve  a  balance  between  maintaining  the  target 
voriconazole  solubility  of  10  mg/ml  at  4°C,  required  to  underwrite  refrigerated  storage  after 
reconstitution, ease of reconstitution and resultant solution viscosity. The compatibility of the chosen 
formulation with SBECD and voriconazole has been demonstrated by stability studies in accordance 
with  the  ICH  guidelines.  Because  of  stability  limitations  a  ready  to  use  aqueous  solution  of 
voriconazole is not feasible and therefore a lyophilised powder for infusion has been developed that is 
manufactured using an aseptic manufacturing process employing a microbial retentive filter. To ensure 
the label claim an overfill of 1.13 ml is provided.   
Manufacturing process  development has taken place. The process is typical for products of this type.  
The  lyophilisation  cycle  has  been  studied  extensively.  Four  batches  at  approximately  65%  of  the 
intended scale have been successfully manufactured at the proposed production site. As the batch sizes 
examined  were  not  at  the  proposed  full  production  scale,  further  validation  data  on  the  first  three 
production batches will be required.   
After reconstitution with 19 ml water for injections, the product contains 10 mg/ml voriconazole and 
160  mg/ml  SBECD.  The  chemical  stability  after  reconstitution  has  been  studied:  the  solution  is 
physically  and  chemically  stable  for  48  hours  at  25ºC.    The  product  should  be  further  diluted  in  a 
suitable diluent prior to infusion.  Compatibility studies have been presented for a range of diluents.  
The  studies  revealed  an  incompatibility  with  parenteral  nutrition  (e.g.  Aminofusin  10%  Plus)  and 
4.2%  Sodium  Bicarbonate.  In  the  SPC  the  use  of  these  diluents  is  not  recommended.    The 
compatibility of the diluents mentioned in the SPC has been proven. 
In-process controls have been justified. 
The  acceptance  criteria  for  the  impurities  are  based  upon  the  criteria  for  impurities  in  the  drug 
substance  and  the  degradation  during  the  manufacturing  process  and  are  consistent  with  the 
qualification threshold stipulated in the ICH Guideline Q3B “Impurities in New Drug Products”. The 
limit for bacterial endotoxins has been calculated for the maximum infusion rate 3 mg/kg/hour. With 
the threshold value 5 endotoxins/kg/hour the endotoxin limit concentration 1.67 IU/mg is acceptable.  
All specifications are justified and acceptable. The methods of analysis are submitted and have been 
validated in accordance with the relevant Notes for Guidance. Data from the manufacture of thirteen 
batches at Madaus, Germany and from the manufacture of four batches at Catalytica, USA have been 
submitted.  All  batches  fulfilled  the  specification  requirements.  After  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorization  the  batch  analysis  data  of  the  first  three  batches  on  full  production  scale  should  be 
submitted. 
Stability of the Product 
Film-coated tablets: 
The claimed shelf-life of 24 months without any special storage conditions is justified.  The applicant 
has committed to monitor the stability of the first three production scale batches. 
Powder for solution for infusion: 
The  end-of  shelf-life  specification  is  identical  to  the  release  specification  except  for  the  limits  for 
degradation products. This is justified. 
Apart  from  a  small  increase  of  some  degradation  products,  no  changes  in  any  parameter  at  any 
condition  were  observed.  The  claimed shelf-life  of 24  months  without special storage  conditions is 
justified.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  monitor  the  stability  of  the  first  three  production-scale 
batches. 
The stability of the reconstituted solution  has been studied at 5ºC and at ambient conditions, in both 
the  dark  and  in  ambient  light  for  48  hours  in  an  inverted  position.    Physical  and  chemical  stability 
parameters  were  tested.    No  significant  changes  (including  any  racemisation)  were  observed.    The 
drug  product  solution  has  also  been  analysed  for  extractables  from  the  closures  and  no  significant 
changes were found.  The reconstituted product is demonstrated to be stable for up to 24 hours at 5ºC 
and at ambient conditions, as defined in the SPC. 
4/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
With the exception of some exploratory and pilot studies, the investigations reported in Part III of the 
dossier conformed to GLP standards. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Voriconazole  is  a  broad-spectrum  antifungal  agent  with  potent  in  vitro  activity  against  the  primary 
opportunistic pathogens: Aspergillus spp., Candida spp. and Cryptococcus spp., fluconazole-resistant 
strains of C. albicans, as well as other Candida spp. which are inherently less sensitive to fluconazole 
(e.g.  C.  krusei  and  C.  glabrata).  Voriconazole  is  also  active  against  a  wide  range  of  less  common 
pathogens, including organisms that are resistant to fluconazole, itraconazole and amphotericin B (e.g. 
Fusarium  spp.,  Scedosporium  inflatum,  Acremonium  kilensii,  Trichosporon  spp).  Furthermore,  it  is 
fungicidal  for  Aspergillus  spp.  The  activity  of  the  circulating  N-oxide  metabolite  of  voriconazole 
against a range of fungal pathogens was 100-fold less than that of voriconazole. 
Consistent  with  its  potency  in  vitro,  voriconazole  is  highly  effective  in  vivo  against  systemic  and 
pulmonary aspergillosis, systemic candidosis and pulmonary and intracranial cryptococcosis, in both 
immune normal and immunocompromised guinea pigs. 
SBECD  is  devoid  of  antifungal  activity  against  a  wide  range  of  fungal  pathogens  in  vitro  and  in 
animal  models  of  systemic  candidosis.  When  combined  with  voriconazole,  it  had  no  effect  on  the 
antigungal activity of the latter either in vitro or in vivo. 
In anaesthetised dogs, voriconazole caused cardiac arrhythmia in one dog at plasma levels 7 times the 
maximal therapeutical levels and slight, probably irrelevant, dose-related prolongations in QT interval 
at plasma levels partly  within the therapeutical range. Voriconazole  had  no  effect  on  in vitro assays 
which  may  be  predictive  of  effects  on  cardiac  repolarisation.  Voriconazole  did  not  affect  the 
respiratory system. Voriconazole had no effect on renal function following oral doses up to 10 mg/kg. 
A small reduction in the excretion of potassium ions was observed following 30 mg/kg i.v., but this 
was  not associated  with  any other changes in renal  function. Voriconazole induced reversible  visual 
disturbances (blurred vision) in patients. Studies in dogs indicated that the primary site of action was 
the  retina  and  that  these  effects  were  observed  at  therapeutically  relevant  plasma  levels.  No 
histopathological effects were observed. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics of voriconazole were characterised by gender dependence in rat with higher plasma 
concentrations and AUC values in female compared with male rats. No sex difference was observed in 
the dog. In rabbits, the elimination profile was log-linear with an elimination half-life of 1.7h.  
The increase in plasma exposure was more than dose proportional in guinea pig (dog to lesser extent) 
and  rat  following  single  exposure,  but  not  in  rat  after  multiple  dosing.    Consequently,  plasma 
clearance and volume of distribution data are of limited utility, being specific to the dose level used. 
Apparent  volume  of  distribution  values,  generally  greater  than  total  body  water  (approx.  0.8  l/kg), 
indicate that voriconazole has some tissue affinity, in keeping with its moderately lipophilic nature. 
Multiple  dose  administration  of  voriconazole  resulted  in  a  decrease  in  plasma  exposure  in  rat  and 
mouse and to lesser extent in dog and guinea pig due to autoinduction of metabolism. In contrast, in 
rabbit  and  in  immunocompromised  guinea  pig,  multiple  administration  resulted  in  higher  systemic 
exposure  than  would  be  expected  from single  dose  data.  Accumulation  of  voriconazole  occurred  in 
dog following multiple administration at high (and toxic) dose levels.  
The  plasma  exposures  in  rat  and  dog  at the  no  observed  adverse  effect  level  (NOAEL)  were  lower 
than  or  similar  to  those  at  the  standard  maintenance  doses  in  humans  and  lower  than  those  at  the 
maximal maintenance doses in humans. 
Absorption of voriconazole from the gastrointestinal tract is likely to be high in all species since the 
apparent oral bioavailability is >75% in all species. Voriconazole penetrates the CNS and CSF well. 
Studies in guinea pig indicate complete transfer of the free fraction of voriconazole in plasma across 
the blood-CSF barrier.  Following administration  of  radiolabelled voriconazole to rats, there  were  no 
sites of accumulation or prolonged retention of radioactivity. Distribution was not studied in pregnant 
animals.  
5/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
Voriconazole  is  eliminated  predominantly  by  metabolism.  Metabolites  were  found  not  to  show  any 
pharmacological activity. The major primary route of metabolism in human involved fluoropyrimidine 
N-oxidation to form metabolite UK-121,265. Biotransformation of voriconazole in toxicology species 
was similar. Overall, whilst there  were minor species differences in the relative amounts of excreted 
metabolites,  all  of  the  major  pathways  of  voriconazole  metabolism  in  human  are  represented  in 
laboratory animals. From in vitro studies with human microsomes it was concluded that voriconazole 
is metabolised by CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. The metabolite UK-121,265 has been shown to 
have inhibitory potency against CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, which is similar to or less than that 
of voriconazole. The potential of voriconazole to interact with concomitant medications has led to the 
instigation of an extensive clinical pharmacology drug interaction programme which is detailed in part 
IV.  The  predominant  route  of  excretion  in  rat,  rabbit  and  dog  was  the  urine  whereas  in  mouse  and 
guinea  pig  the  faeces  contained  a  slightly  higher  proportion  of  the  dose  than  the  urine.  Unchanged 
voriconazole recovered in excreta was less than 10% of total dosed radioactivity in all species. In all 
species,  more  than  92%  of  excreted  radioactivity  was  recovered  within  120h  (majority  within  first 
48h). 
For  SBECD,  AUC-values  following  single 
increased 
superproportionally at the highest doses. However, dose proportional increases are expected to occur 
in  humans  since  SBECD  dosed  to  humans  resulted  in  much  lower  plasma  exposure.  SBECD  is  not 
metabolised and the pattern of distribution of the radioactivity was consistent with its presence in the 
vasculature, with very little penetration in tissues. Distribution was not studied in pregnant animals. In 
all cases, the excretion was rapid and essentially via renal elimination.   
in  dog  and  male  rat 
i.v.  dosing 
Toxicology 
Dose  ranges  in  toxicity  studies  were  limited  due  to  toxicity  at  the  high  doses.  Generally,  systemic 
exposures at the high doses in repeated dose toxicity studies were comparable to systemic exposure in 
humans with the maximal therapeutic doses.  
The clinical signs observed in rodents [mydriasis, titubation (loss of balance when moving), depressed 
behaviour, prostration, rigid extended limbs, partially closed eyes and dyspnoea] at intravenous doses 
of  50  mg/kg  and  above  and  at  oral  doses  of  100  mg/kg  and  above  suggest  high  acute  doses  of 
voriconazole mainly affect the central nervous system.  
Repeat-dose oral studies in rats, mice and dogs have shown the liver to be the main target organ, with 
a  range  of  adaptive  and  functional  changes:  Increases  in  liver  weight,  centrilobular  hypertrophy, 
proliferation of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and induction of cytochrome P450 appeared in a dose-
related  fashion. When administered  orally to dogs  for up  to 1  month, voriconazole  had  no  effect  on 
transaminase  activities,  except  at  the  toxic  dose  of  24  mg/kg,  where  increases  in  ASAT  and  ALAT 
accompanied  systemic  toxicity.  Longer  exposure  to  voriconazole  in  the  6-  and  12-month  studies  at  
12  mg/kg  produced  evidence  of  hepatotoxicity  (single  cell  necrosis,  increases  in  plasma  ALAT  and 
alkaline phosphatase).  Transient severe clinical signs at 10 mg/kg limited the high dose in intravenous 
studies  in  dogs  to  6  mg/kg.  In  these  studies,  adaptive  liver  response  were  seen  from  1  mg/kg  i.v, 
however no hepatotoxicity was noted. 
In rats and dogs the adaptive changes were reversible after withdrawing the treatment. The hepatotoxic 
effects  of  voriconazole  seen  in  animals  at  systemic  exposures  comparable  to  the  human  therapeutic 
levels of exposure are a serious safety concern for the use of voriconazole in humans. 
Comparison of systemic exposures of voriconazole at the NOAELs in the repeat-dose toxicity studies 
with  systemic  exposure  at  the  maximal  human  therapeutic  doses  showed  that  no  margin  of  safety 
could be established. It was concluded that, based on the preclinical data, toxicity notably in the liver 
and  possibly  in  the  kidney  may  be  expected  in  humans  at  therapeutic  doses.  Furthermore,  adrenal 
changes may occur due to changes in hormone metabolism and anaemic effects may be encountered. 
In  the  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  no  histopathological  changes  were  noted  that  would  indicate 
damage of the retina. The only finding was a slight reduction of the number of outer nuclear layers of 
the peripheral retina of the high dose females in the rat oncogenicity study. 
For  SBECD  no  effects  in  rodents  were  observed  after  a  single  intravenous  dose  of  SBECD  
2000  mg/kg.  After  repeated  dosing  in  rats  and  dogs, foamy  macrophages  in  a  variety  of  organs  but 
predominantly  in  liver  and  lungs  were  observed.  In  addition,  vacuolation  occurred  in  renal  tubular 
6/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
cells, the urinary tract and hepatocytes, the kidney being more sensitive than the liver in both species. 
In both rats and dogs, continued SBECD treatment for 6 months showed no progression of either renal 
histological findings or functional changes, indicating that SBECD contains low (if any) toxicological 
potential. For SBECD, safety margins calculated by means of the MTED approach were very low. 
The  main  adverse  effects  of  voriconazole  noted  in  reproduction  studies  in  rats  were  dystocia, 
difficulties during delivery leading to maternal death and decrease of litter size and survival of pups, 
and teratogenicity, notably cleft palate and visceral anomalies in the renal area. Voriconazole was not 
teratogenic  in  rabbits,  but  became  embryotoxic  at  100  mg/kg.  As  in  the  repeat-dose  studies,  the 
systemic  exposure at the  developmental NOAELs  was lower than systemic  exposure  at the intended 
human  therapeutic  doses.  Therefore  no  margin  of  safety  for  developmental  toxicity  could  be 
established. SBECD did not impair fertility in rats of either sex. It was devoid of teratogenic potential 
and did not impair pre- or postnatal development of pups. 
A standard battery of genotoxicity tests was carried out and it was concluded that voriconazole does 
not pose a genotoxic hazard. The sponsor has committed to further elucidate the genotoxic potential of 
the fluoropyrimidinedihydroxy metabolite. 
The carcinogenic potential of voriconazole was assayed in rats and mice by administration through the 
diet for 24 months. In the carcinogenicity studies and the repeat dose studies it has been shown that the 
liver is a target organ for voriconazole toxicity. Adaptive changes occur at lower doses, consisting of 
enzyme induction, proliferation of smooth endoplasmic reticulum, centrilobular hypertrophy and fatty 
changes.  At  higher  doses  single  cell  necrosis  and  cellular  alteration  are  found.  Ultimately,  this 
stimulation  leads  to  the  formation  of  neoplasms  in  the  liver.  This  is  a  well-known  mechanism 
occurring  in  rodents,  following  the  chronic  administration  of  enzyme-inducers.  Therefore,  these 
studies do not indicate a risk for carcinogenicity by voriconazole in humans. 
There is no carcinogenicity data on the excipient SBECD.  The impurity 1,4-butane sultone, which is 
present  in  SBECD,  has  been  shown  to  be  an  alkylating  mutagenic  agent  with  evidence  for 
carcinogenicity  in  rodents.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  attempt  to  find  an  alternative  route  of 
synthesis for SBECD, in order to avoid the presence of 1,4 butane sultone in SBECD. This issue has 
been addressed in section 5.3. of the SPC.   
Local  tolerance  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits  only  showed  slight  conjunctival  irritancy  in  eye  irritancy 
tests in rabbits. SBECD elicited reversible transient mild conjunctival irritation in the eyes of rabbits. 
No antigenicity of voriconazole was found in guinea pigs. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
This  application  for  marketing  authorisation  presents  data  from  48  Phase  1  studies  and  a  total  of  
18 clinical trials Phase 2-3 or compassionate use programmes. In addition, data are also presented for 
patients from six Phase 1 studies conducted in Japan. 
The  intravenous  formulation  of  voriconazole  contains  a  novel  excipient,  sulphobutylether  beta-
cyclodextrin  sodium  (SBECD),  used  to  solubilise  voriconazole.  Details  of  the  safety  and 
pharmacokinetics  of  SBECD  are  provided.  This  excipient  does  not  have  any  intrinsic  antifungal 
activity. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Voriconazole is a broad-spectrum anti-fungal agent that shows activity against a wide range of yeasts 
and  filamentous  fungi,  including  Candida  spp.,  Cryptococcus  neoformans  and  Aspergillus  spp.  In 
vitro,  mean  voriconazole  MICs  for  the  key  Candida  species  were  0.05mcg/ml  for  C.  albicans, 
0.38mcg/ml  for C.  glabrata  and  0.29mcg/ml  for  C.  krusei.  Voriconazole  was  more  efficacious  than 
fluconazole  and  itraconazole  in  neutropenic  animals  infected  with  fluconazole-resistant  strains  of  C. 
albicans, C. krusei and C. glabrata.  
In vitro it is 10 to 5000-fold more potent than fluconazole and exhibits both fungicidal (MFCs in the 
range  0.78-1.0mcg/ml)  and  fungistatic  activities  (with  MICs  in  the  range  0.19-0.50mcg/ml)  against 
Aspergillus spp. (see Preclinical Mycological Properties). 
7/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
PK/PD analysis did not detect any relationship between plasma levels of voriconazole and efficacy, in 
terms  of  successful  treatment  of  fungal  infection.  The  recommended  dosage  regimen  resulted  in  a 
successful outcome in the majority of patients with invasive aspergillosis but less so in patients with 
Scedosporium or Fusarium infections or in patients with refractory invasive candidiasis. Comparison 
of  MIC  with  clinical  outcome,  as  well  as  MIC  with  clinical  outcome  plus  the  mean  voriconazole 
plasma  concentration  for  each  treated  patient  did  not  reveal  any  obvious  relationship  between  these 
parameters.  For  instance,  the  MICs  of  some  isolates  even  exceeded  the  voriconazole  mean  plasma 
concentration  (notably  some  patients  with C.tropicalis  infection  &  Fusarium  isolates)  and  yet  these 
patients had successful outcomes. Successful outcomes at end of treatment were observed at a similar 
rate  over  a  range  of  mean  plasma  concentrations  between  0.5mcg  and  5mcg/ml.  With  the  current 
analysis  of  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics,  therefore,  plasma  levels  do  not  predict 
successful outcome.  
Although a relationship between plasma levels and aspects of toxicity was seen, specific guidance for 
the physician is not readily apparent based on a plasma level determination of voriconazole.  
Resistance:  Mechanism  Studies  with  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae,  C.albicans  and  C.glabrata  have 
demonstrated  that  there  are  three  mechanisms  of  azole  resistance:  mutations  in  the  target  enzyme, 
cytochrome P450-dependent 14-alpha sterol demethylase (SD); changes in 5-6 sterol desaturase which 
compensate  for  the  inhibition  of  SD  by  azoles;  and  the  expression  of  multi-drug  resistance  efflux 
pumps. 
(Cross-)resistance.  A  significant  number  of  the  organisms  tested  by  the  Applicant  show  decreased 
susceptibilities  to  fluconazole,  including  C.albicans  and  C.neoformans  strains  which  have  acquired 
resistance,  and  various  Candida  non-  albicans  spp.  and  Trichosporon  spp.  which  are  intrinsically 
resistant to fluconazole (geometric MICs range from 12.5 to 71mcg/ml). These organisms also show 
reduced susceptibility to voriconazole and itraconazole consistent with common mechanisms of azole 
resistance.  However,  voriconazole still retains potent  antifungal activity,  with  MICs below 1mcg/ml 
against these pathogens. 
For  those  voriconazole-treated  patients  from  the  clinical  studies  for  whom  a  sequence  of  fungal 
isolates was available, there was no evidence for a systematic decrease in susceptibility during therapy 
(as  manifested by an increase in  the 48 hour  MIC of  greater than 2 doubling dilutions) with time  of 
exposure to voriconazole. Indeed, such a significant decrease was recorded in only 2 patients. In one 
patient with a C.albicans oropharyngeal infection this decreased susceptibility correlated with a failed 
clinical outcome (MIC increase from 0.006mcg/ml to 0.78mcg/ml). The other patient had a C.glabrata 
infection,  which  responded  to  therapy  despite  the  MIC increasing  from  0.049mcg/ml  to  3.1mcg/ml. 
The mean voriconazole plasma concentration for this patient was 4.5mcg/ml. 
For  fluconazole-treated  patients  in  oesophageal  candidiasis  protocol  150-305,  correlation  of  the 
fluconazole  MICs  for  all  Candida  isolates  was  analysed.    A  comparison  with  the  corresponding 
voriconazole MICs for these same isolates indicated that voriconazole was some 30- to 200-fold more 
potent  in  vitro  than  fluconazole.  In  addition,  there  was  a  tendency  for  the  voriconazole  MICs  to 
increase in parallel with the increase in fluconazole MICs of the three fluconazole breakpoint groups. 
However, despite these parallel increases, all isolates  had  MICs  within the  range  established  for the 
successfully treated voriconazole patients in protocol 150-305. 
The  applicant  has  committed  to  monitor  development  of  acquired  resistance  after  marketing  and 
further to gather world-wide surveillance in vitro data to assist with resistance and break-point setting.   
Pharmacokinetics 
Forty-three studies were submitted in which human pharmacokinetics of voriconazole were evaluated:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
6 single dose studies in healthy volunteers (150-202, -204, -207, -213, -226, VRC-JP-96-502) 
6  repeated  dose  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  (150-205,  -214,  -227,  -230,  VRC-JP-96-503, 
VRC-JP-97-501)  
1 study using 14C-labelled voriconazole (150-220) 
3 food interaction studies (150-217, -222, VRC-JP-96-501)  
8/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
- 
- 
- 
15  pharmacokinetic  interaction  studies  (150-001,  -210,  -228,  -229,  -233,  -235,  -236,  -239,  
-240, -241, -243, -244, -247, A1501009, A1501013). 
6 studies with special patient groups (150-237, -238, -249, -250, A1501012, 95CK39-0673) 
6 bioavailability/bioequivalence studies (150-203, -224, -232, -245, -248, A1501005) 
is  a  single  enantiomer  ((-)-voriconazole).  After 
in  vivo  administration  of  
Voriconazole 
(-)-voriconazole, no  conversion  of (-)-voriconazole  into (+)-voriconazole  was  observed.  After single 
oral dosing of voriconazole, AUC and Cmax increased not dose proportionally over the studied dose 
range  of 100 to 400  mg. The  coefficient of  variation  for  AUC  and Cmax is high  (up to 100%). The 
elimination half-life at 400 mg was more than doubled compared with the 100 mg dose. Saturation of 
metabolism  is  the  main  responsible  factor.  Also  after  IV  dosing  non-linear  pharmacokinetics  are 
observed. AUC increased more than dose proportional, whereas the total body clearance decreased at 
higher doses. The decline in plasma concentrations was in general biphasic.   
After multiple dosing (oral 200 mg bid, IV 3 mg/kg bid) steady state was achieved at day 5 – 6 (with 
no loading dose). The absolute bioavailability is ca. 96%. By using an oral loading dose of 400 mg bid 
or  an  iv  loading  dose  of  6  mg/kg  bid  at  day  1,  steady  state  was  reached  on  day  2.  At  steady  state, 
clearance decreased compared with single dosing, indicating saturation of metabolism. Accumulation 
at steady  state  was 2 – 6 fold. Switching  from an  IV  3  mg/kg bid  dose to an  oral 200  mg bid  dose 
resulted  in  similar  plasma  levels  of  voriconazole  and  trough  levels  could  be  maintained.  AUCτ  and 
Cmax at steady state of the main metabolite of voriconazole (N-oxide-voriconazole) were in the same 
range  as  those  of  voriconazole. PK/PD  analyses  did  not  show  a  positive  association  between  mean, 
maximum  or  minimum  plasma  voriconazole  concentrations  from  start  to  end  of  treatment  and 
efficacy.  
Concomitant intake with food affects the rate and extent of absorption of voriconazole. Therefore it is 
recommended to take voriconazole tablets at least 1 hour before, or 1 hour following a meal.  
Protein binding of voriconazole is moderate (ca. 58%) and interactions arising from displacement are 
not expected to be clinically relevant. 
Voriconazole  is  metabolised  by  the  isoenzymes  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19  and  CYP3A4.  In  vitro  studies 
using  human liver microsomes indicate that the affinity  for CYP3A4 is 100-fold lower than that  for 
CYP2C9  and  CY2C19.    CYP2C9  and  CYP2C19  appear  to  be  the  most  important  isoenzymes  at 
clinically relevant total voriconazole concentrations of 17 µM (6 µg/ml). Voriconazole was shown to 
competitively inhibit CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. The  major primary  route  of  metabolism  of 
voriconazole  involved  fluoropyrimidine  N-oxidation  to  form  UK-121,  265  (N-oxide-voriconazole). 
Fluoropyrimidine  hydroxylation  and  dihydroxylation  and  methyl  hydroxylation  are  other  primary 
routes.  Other  metabolites  arise  from  combination  of  these  pathways  to  form  multiple  oxidised 
metabolites. In addition,  cleavage  of the  N-oxide  metabolite resulted in loss  of the  fluoropyrimidine 
moiety (UK-215, 364). These primary metabolites were conjugated or defluorinated.  
The  major  metabolite  N-oxide-voriconazole  (UK-121,  265)  is  ca.  100-fold  less  potent  than 
voriconazole as shown in in vitro susceptibility tests. Taking into account the plasma concentrations of 
this  metabolite  at  steady  state,  which  are  comparable  with  those  of  the  parent  compound,  the 
metabolite  is  not  likely  to  contribute  to  the  pharmacological  effect.  N-oxide-voriconazole  has  been 
shown to have inhibitory potency against cytochrome P450 enzymes, which is similar to or less than 
that of voriconazole. 
The  CYP2C19  isoenzyme  exhibits  genetic  polymorphism,  which  in  essence  divides  the  population 
into  poor  and  extensive  metabolisers  (PM  and  EM,  respectively).  The  extensive  metabolisers  are 
further divided into homozygous and heterozygous populations. Three to five percent of the Caucasian 
and  Black  population  are  PMs  and  have  essentially  no  CYP2C19  activity.  The  Asian  population, 
including Japanese, generally has a higher proportion of PMs, constituting between 15 and 20% of the 
population.  It  has  been  shown  in  vitro  using  specific  inhibitors  and  liver  microsomes  from  poor 
metabolisers,  that  in  the  absence  of  CYP2C19  there  is  an  increased  role  for  CYP3A4  in  the 
metabolism of voriconazole. In poor metabolisers it appeared that Cmax is ca. 3 fold higher and AUC 
ca. 2 – 5 fold higher compared to extensive metabolisers. Heterozygous extensive metabolisers had a 
ca. 1.5 fold higher AUC compared to extensive metabolisers. The AUC of N-oxide-voriconazole was 
9/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
ca.  30%  lower  in  poor  metabolisers  and  ca.  0  –  25%  lower  in  heterozygous  metabolisers  compared 
with extensive metabolisers.   
After IV and oral administration of radioactive labelled voriconazole 80 and  84% of the dose could be 
recovered in urine, respectively, and in faeces, ca. 24 and 22%, respectively. Less than 2% of the dose 
could be detected in urine as intact drug. In faeces no intact drug could be detected.   
The pharmacokinetics of voriconazole was not affected by mild to severe impaired renal function. A 
moderate  hepatic insufficiency  resulted in an increase in the systemic  exposure  necessitating a 50% 
reduction of the maintenance dose of voriconazole. Patients with severe hepatic insufficiency have not 
been studied. Therefore, the SPC conservatively worded the administration of voriconazole to patients 
with severe liver impairment.  
The systemic exposure in healthy  young females was approximately doubled compared with healthy 
young  males.  As the safety profile and plasma  concentrations  observed in  male  and  female patients 
were  similar,  no  dose  adjustment  is  necessary.  No  difference  in  pharmacokinetics  was  observed 
between  elderly  males and females. For elderly,  no dose adjustment is necessary.  Although a higher 
exposure in elderly was observed compared to young, this was not associated with increased reporting 
of adverse events. 
The interaction potential  of  voriconazole is  extensively  and sufficiently studied in vivo. No  (clinical 
significant)  effect  of  voriconazole  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  indinavir,  prednisolone,  and  digoxin 
were  observed,  whereas  the  AUC  of  phenytoin  (81%),  omeprazole  (280%),  cyclosporin  (70%), 
warfarin  (93%  increase  in  maximum  prothrombin  time)  and  tacrolimus  (221%)  increased  due  to 
concomitant  intake  with  voriconazole.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  voriconazole  were  not  (clinically 
indinavir,  erythromycin,  azithromycin  and 
significant)  affected  by  cimetidine, 
prednisolone,  whereas  the  AUC  of  voriconazole  was  decreased  due  to  the  concomitant  intake  with 
rifampicin ( 96%), rifabutin (78%), and phenytoin (69%).   
ranitidine, 
Overall,  it  is  concluded  that  pharmacokinetics  was  sufficiently  studied  and  that  the  SPC  adequately 
reflects the results of the submitted studies. 
Clinical efficacy  
The following studies were included in the initial submission in the main indications.  
Treatment of invasive aspergillosis 
Study number 
150-304 
150-1003 
150-303 
150-309, 150-604 
Study 
Treatment of acute invasive aspergillosis  
Treatment of chronic aspergillosis  
Treatment of refractory infections  
150-303a, 150-304a 
150-301, 150-312, 150-606 
Compassionate use 
Compassionate use   
Study Status  
Complete 
Complete 
Complete  
Interim analysis 
Complete 
Interim analysis 
Design 
Non-comparative, open label 
Historical control for 150-304 
Non-comparative, open label 
Non-comparative, open label 
Non-comparative, open label 
Non-comparative, open label 
Treatment  of  serious  Candida  infections  (including  C.  krusei),  including  oesophageal  and  systemic 
Candida infections (hepatosplenic candidiasis, disseminated candidiasis, candidaemia) 
Study number 
150-303 
150-305 
150-608 
150-309, 150-604 
Study 
Treatment of chronic candidiasis  
Oesophageal candidiasis  
Candidemia 
Treatment of refractory infections  
Study Status  
Complete 
Complete 
Interim analysis 
Interim analysis 
Design 
Non-comparative, open label 
Randomised, controlled. double-blind 
Randomised, controlled, open label 
Non-comparative, open label 
150-301, 150-606, 150-312 
Compassionate use 
Interim analysis 
Non-comparative, open label 
10/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium spp and Fusarium spp 
Study number 
150-309, 150-604 
150-301, 150-606,  
150-303a 
Study  
 Treatment of refractory infections; 
Compassionate use 
Study Status 
Interim analysis 
Design 
Non-comparative, open label 
Interim analysis 
Complete 
Non-comparative, open label 
Empirical Treatment  
Study number 
150-603 
Study 
Empirical treatment 
Study status 
Complete 
Design 
Randomised,  controlled,  open 
label 
In response to the CPMP list of questions, comparative studies (150-307/602) in invasive aspergillosis 
were submitted which had just been completed.  
Efficacy data were pooled from the entire programme using standardised procedures referred to as the 
Voriconazole  Efficacy  Response  Assessment  (VERA),  this  enabled  efficacy  data  from  different 
studies to be summarised in a consistent manner for each fungal species causing an infection. 
The indications for serious systemic candidiasis, fusariosis and scedosporiosis were based on pooled 
efficacy data across the clinical programme: 736 voriconazole and 454 control patients were included 
in the initial pooled efficacy analyses.  Subsequently in response to CPMP questions further refractory 
candidiasis,  fusariosis  and scedosporiosis  data,  from  the  since  completed  studies  150-309/604,  were 
provided. 
All  clinical studies  were  conducted after the  effective date  of the GCP guidelines, 1 July  1991,  and 
were performed in accordance with GCP guidelines. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Dose response studies 
As  mentioned  above  there  was  no  dose  response  relationship  between  voriconazole  plasma 
concentrations  (or  derived  parameter)  and  efficacy  in  terms  of  successful  biological  response  or 
treatment  outcome  as  determined  from  available  PK-PD  data.  Indeed  successful  outcomes  were 
observed  for  concentrations ranging between   .5mcg  and 5   mcg/ml at the  end  of treatment. Neither 
Cmax nor Cmin seem to be preferentially correlated with outcome. This issue will be further explored 
by  the  Company  in  post  marketing  studies  that  will  also  compare  exposure  levels  after  doses  of 
4mg/kg iv and oral doses of 200mg and 300mg. 
Main studies  
Invasive Aspergillosis 
Study 150-307/602 
The primary objective of Protocols 150-307 (conducted in Europe, Israel and Australia) and 150-602 
(conducted  in  the  United  States,  Canada,  South  America  and  India)  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy, 
safety, and toleration of voriconazole compared with conventional amphotericin B as initial treatment 
of (definite  or probable) acute invasive  aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients  of 12  years of 
age or older. Only up to four days of prior systemic anti-fungal therapy for aspergillosis was allowed. 
The  two  protocols  had  virtually  identical  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria,  study  procedures, 
assessments  and  endpoints.  Therefore  data  from  both  studies  were  pooled  and  analysed  together, 
according to a pre-defined umbrella protocol. The primary objective of the umbrella protocol was to 
demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  voriconazole  at  Week  12  in  the  modified  intention  to  treat  (MITT) 
population. The other objectives were to demonstrate superiority of voriconazole at end of randomised 
therapy (EORT) in the MITT population and to assess the survival through Day 84 from the start of 
treatment. 
A  sample  of  276  patients  (138  per  group)  would  provide  power  of  at  least  90%  to  (1)  demonstrate 
non-inferiority  in  the  rates  of  satisfactory  global  response  between  patients  randomised  to 
voriconazole  and  patients  randomised  to  amphotericin  B  in  the  MITT  analysis  at  Week  12  and  (2) 
11/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
detect a difference of 20% in the rates of satisfactory (complete or partial) global response between the 
voriconazole and amphotericin B treatment groups in the MITT analysis at the end of IRT. 
The ITT population included all patients who received at least one dose of correct IRT. 
Patients were, however, excluded from this population if their study therapy was not their randomised 
therapy. 
The MITT population included all patients who: 
-had received at least one dose of their IRT, and 
-had  confirmation  of  ‘definite’  or  ‘probable’  primary  diagnosis  of  invasive  aspergillosis  (IA)  as 
determined by an independent Data Review Committee (DRC). 
Definite or probable IA was defined by modified EORTC/MSG criteria. Satisfactory outcomes were 
complete  response (CR)  of  clinical and radiological  findings or partial (PR), significant  clinical and 
>50%  radiological  improvement.  Unsatisfactory  outcomes  were  unchanged  or  worse.    Definite  or 
probable aspergillosis and efficacy were both determined by the independent DRC, which was blinded 
to drug therapy. 
Voriconazole was given as an intravenous loading dose of 6mg/kg every 12 hours (Q12H) for the first 
24 hours, followed by 4mg/kg iv Q12H. Downward adjustments for toleration of 1mg/kg Q12H were 
allowed to a minimum dose of 3mg/kg Q12H. At least seven days of iv dosing was recommended for 
all  patients.  The  starting  dose  of  oral  voriconazole  was  200mg  twice  daily  (BID).  If  there  was 
inadequate clinical response after at least three days, the dose could be escalated to 300mg BID. If this 
dose  was  not  tolerated,  the  escalated  dose  could  be  decreased  by  increments  of  50mg  BID  to  a 
minimum  dose  of  200mg  BID.  For  patients  weighing  less  than  40kg,  all  doses  of  oral  voriconazole 
were decreased by 50%. Therapy could be continued for a maximum total duration of 12 weeks, and 
an extension up to 16 weeks was possible. The total duration of treatment for each subject was based 
on his/her response, as determined by the investigator. 
Patients  who  discontinued  either  initial  randomised  study  treatment  because  of  toxicity,  lack  of 
tolerability,  or  clinical  failure  could receive an  other  licensed antifungal treatment (OLAT). Patients 
were to be followed for the entire 16-week study period, regardless of any changes in treatment. 
Of the 277 patients in the MITT population, 242 patients were also included in the PP population. The 
reasons  for  exclusion  from  the  PP  population  were  determined  by  the  DRC  and  included  lack  of 
eligibility/evaluability,  receipt  of  precluded  concomitant  medication  and  indeterminate  global 
response at Week 12.   
Results 
Analysed  populations  are  displayed  in  the  following  table.  The  patterns  of  underlying  diseases  and 
infection sites were broadly similar in each of the two treatment groups. 
Summary of Numbers of Subjects within Populations used for Efficacy Analyses 
Population 
Voriconazole 
Amphotericin B  Total patients 
Group 
group 
Patients receiving study drug 
ITT population 
MITT population 
PP population 
196 
194 
144 
131 
185 
185 
133 
111 
381 
379 
277 
242 
12/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of  Underlying Disease at Baseline – ITT Population  
NUMBER(%) OF PATIENTS 
194 
185 
VORICONAZOLE  AMPHOTERICIN B 
Allogeneic bone marrow transplant^ 
Allogeneic peripheral stem cell transplant^ 
Autologous bone marrow transplant- 
Autologous peripheral stem cell transplant- 
25 
19 
5 
7 
(12.9)  30 
(9.8) 
(2.6) 
(3.6) 
8 
1 
7 
Other haematological condition- 
106 
(54.6)  112 
HIV/AIDS+ 
Solid organ transplant+ 
Other Solid organ malignancy+ 
High dose corticosteroid treatment+ 
Other+ 
6 
11 
1 
11 
3 
(3.1) 
(5.7) 
(0.5) 
7 
8 
0 
(5.7) 
12 
(1.5) 
0 
^Allogeneic bone marrow or stem cell transplant 
_Autologous bone marrow or stem cell transplant or haematological condition 
+Other underlying disease 
(16.2) 
(4.3) 
(0.5) 
(3.8) 
(60.5) 
(3.8) 
(4.3) 
(6.5) 
As  expected,  virtually  all  of  the  patients  entered  into  this  study  had  serious  medical  conditions  at 
baseline.  
Of  the  patients  in  the  amphotericin  B  group  who  switched  to  OLAT,  57  (39.6%)  initially  received 
itraconazole, 61 (42.4%) initially received liposomal amphotericin B and 26 (18%) initially received 
other therapies. Voriconazole was better tolerated than amphotericin B allowing for longer duration of 
therapy. See the following table. 
Duration of Treatment 
Voriconazole group 
Amphotericin B group 
IRT 
OLAT 
Regimen 
IRT 
OLAT 
Regimen 
(N = 196)  (N = 77)  (N = 196)  (N 
(N = 145)  (N = 185) 
Elapsed time 
Mean (days) 
65 
Median (days)  73 
37 
23 
80 
87 
=185) 
16 
12 
58 
53 
62 
57 
Range (days) 
2-288 
1-128 
3–288 
1-85 
1-129 
1–135 
Actual time 
Mean (days) 
65 
Median (days)  73 
36 
22 
79 
87 
14 
12 
55 
47 
57 
46 
Range (days) 
2-288 
1-128 
3–288 
1-84 
1-129 
1–135 
13/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The duration of treatment expressed in terms of elapsed time was similar to the actual time, although 
elapsed  times  tended  to  be  slightly  greater  than  actual  times.  This  was  especially  the  case  in  the 
amphotericin B group, because some investigators gave patients a break in their treatment, primarily 
to allow recovery from AEs (most frequently renal AEs). 
In total, 177 patients who received study drug did not complete the study; 80 (41%) of patients in the 
voriconazole  group  and  97  (52%)  of  patients  in  the  amphotericin  B  group.  The  main  reason  for 
discontinuation from the study (as determined by the investigator) was death. 
Efficacy: 
The  survival  for  voriconazole  treated  patients  was  statistically  significantly  greater  than  that  for 
amphotericin  B  treated  patients  and  a  clinically  and  statistically  significant  benefit  was  shown  in 
favour of voriconazole for time to death and time to discontinuation due to toxicity. 
The  positive  outcome  for  the  overall  population  (150-307/602)  is  reproduced  within  the  individual 
protocol  components  (150-307  and  150-602)  and  subpopulations.  Although  more  patients  had  a 
satisfactory global response in both treatment groups in protocol 150-307 (57.0% vs 36.9%) compared 
with protocol 150-602 (46.6% vs 22.5%), the treatment effects were not statistically different between 
the two protocols at the 5% level.  
The  table  shows  the  outcome  for  the  primary  efficacy  variable  but  remained  consistent  in  other 
analyses: 
Number of patients with satisfactory global responses (DRC assessment) at Week 12 by protocol 
and treatment group for the MITT population. (Primary Efficacy Analysis) 
DRC Global 
Voriconazole group 
Amphotericin B group 
Response 
(N=144) 
(N=133) 
150-307 
150-602  Combined  150-307 
150-602 
Combined 
Satisfactory 
49 (57.0%)  27 (46.6%)  76 (52.8%)  31 (36.9%)  11 (22.5%)  42 (31.6%) 
Unsatisfactory 
37 (43.0%)  31 (53.5%)  68 (47.2%)  53 (63.1%)  38 (77.6%)  91 (68.4%) 
Unsatisfactory  response:    included  failures  included  (1)  patients  whose  DRC  response  was  given  as 
failure, indeterminate or missing and had an assessment within the Week 12 window, (2) patients who 
died  before  the  Week  12  assessment  and  (3)  patients  without  a  clinical,  mycological  or  imaging 
assessment within the Week 12 window. 
14/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analyses of time to death from the start of treatment and mortality on Day 84 data revealed a total of 
98  deaths  before  Day  84  among  patients  in  the  MITT  population;  42  patients  (29.2%)  in  the 
voriconazole  group  and  56  (42.1%)  patients  in  the  amphotericin  B  group.  Kaplan-Meier  survival 
curves plotting time to death showed that the incidence of deaths in each treatment group tended to be 
highest early in the protocol, although this trend  was most pronounced in the amphotericin B group. 
The  proportion  of  patients  surviving  was  consistently  higher  in  the  voriconazole  group  than  the 
amphotericin  B  group  throughout  the  study.  Separation  of  the  survival  curves  began  soon  after  the 
start  of  treatment;  the  proportion  of  patients  alive  in  the  voriconazole  group  was  higher  than  in  the 
amphotericin B group at Day 14. The number of patients whose death was judged by the DRC to be 
caused by aspergillosis was approximately twice as high in the amphotericin B group compared with 
the voriconazole group. 
15/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Summary of cause of death for patients as assessed by the DRC (MITT population) 
Cause of death 
Aspergillosis 
Voriconazole 
Amphotericin B 
group (N = 144) 
group (N = 133) 
22 (15.3%) 
39 (29.3%) 
Unrelated to aspergillosis but evidence of active 
13 (9.0%) 
9 (6.8%) 
Aspergillus infection 
Unrelated to aspergillosis and no evidence of residual 
8 (5.6%) 
4 (3.0%) 
Aspergillus infection 
Indeterminate 
Serious Candida infections 
9 (6.3%) 
4 (3.0%) 
In  addition  to  the  randomised,  double  blind,  controlled  oesophageal  candidiasis  study  (150-305),  a 
further 169 patients with candidiasis and treated with voriconazole were presented: 127 salvage cases 
(combined Studies 150-309/604 and other pooled data), and 42 primary therapy patients with systemic 
infection (from interim Study 150-608 and Study 150-603). 
Serious infections caused by Scedosporium spp. and Fusarium spp. 
Infections  caused  by  fungi  such  as  species  of  Scedosporium  and  Fusarium  are  encountered  less 
frequently. The infection is often unresponsive to currently licensed antifungal agents. In the present 
application efficacy of voriconazole against such infections relied on the pooled efficacy analysis.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
Sixty-one  paediatric  patients  aged  9  months  up  to  15  years  who  had  definite  or  probable  invasive 
fungal infections, were treated with voriconazole.  This population included 34 patients aged 2 to <12 
years  and  20  patients  12  to  15  years  of  age.  The  number  of  paediatric  patients  (<  12years  of  age) 
evaluated  is  rather  limited  (n=34).  However,  based  upon  the  submitted  studies  and  population 
pharmacokinetic  analysis,  children  have  a  higher  elimination  capacity  than  adults  on  a  body  weight 
basis.  Therefore to  achieve  exposures  (AUCs) in  children  consistent  with those  of  adults  following 
3mg/kg,  higher  doses  of  4mg/kg  will  be  required.    Higher  doses  have  not  been  sufficiently  nor 
systematically  studied  in  children  and  the  applicant  will  further  investigate  this  as  a  post-approval 
commitment.  In  addition 
the  pharmacokinetics  and 
safety/efficacy  investigations  of  the  higher  doses  in  children  aged  2  to  12  years,  a  powder  for  oral 
suspension formulation is currently under development.  Safety and effectiveness in children less than 
2 years of age has not been established. See further relevant sections of the SPC. 
to  studies  regarding 
investigations  of 
Exploratory analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses). 
Aspergillosis 
Supportive  pooled  data  analyses  of  results  derived  from  different  protocols  across  the  clinical  trial 
programme  (including  also  compassionate  use  protocols  but  not  the  final  results  from  main  study  
150-307/602)  were  also  provided  for  the  invasive  aspergillosis  using  the  Voriconazole  Efficacy 
Response Assessment. See the following table for the overall overview of outcome analyses. 
16/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcome of Voriconazole Therapy in Patients with aspergillosis 
Pooled Across the Clinical Programme (excluding study 150-307/602) 
Primary cases 
Salvage cases 
Outcome 
All cases 
(N=322) 
Success 
140 (43.5%) 
        - Complete 
50 (15.5%) 
   - Partial 
90 (28.0%) 
Failure 
182 (56.5%) 
     - Stable 
38 (11.8%) 
(N=84) 
44 (52.4%) 
16 (19.0%) 
28 (33.3%) 
40 (47.6%) 
9 (10.7%) 
    - Failure 
131 (40.7%) 
29 (34.5%) 
(N=238) 
96 (40.3%) 
34 (14.3%) 
62 (26.1%) 
142 (59.7%) 
29 (12.2%) 
102 (42.9%) 
This  large  database  revealed  an  efficacy  profile  of  voriconazole  in  invasive  aspergillosis  that  was 
consistent with the profile from the prospective study 150-304.  
Refractory invasive candidiasis 
Voriconazole  has  been  investigated  as  salvage  treatment  of  fungal  infections  in  Protocols  150-
309/604. Along with data from refractory candidiasis patients in Study 150-303 and the compassionate 
programme the following patients were presented for the analysis: 
Study 
All Refractory 
Candidiasis 
Subjects* 
Candidaemia 
Refractory Infection Groups 
Disseminated & other 
invasive candidiasis 
Studies 150-
309/604 
Study 150-303 
Compassionate-use 
programme (150-
Total 
* - this column includes oesophageal candidiasis subjects 
75 
9 
22 
106 
17  
0  
4  
21  
20  
2  
12  
34  
Prospectively  defined  criteria  in  studies  150-309/604  required  that  patients  with  invasive  fungal 
infection  had  to  have  been  efficacy  failures  having  received  treatment  for  at  least  6  days  with  an 
appropriate  systemic  antifungal.    Supportive  data  on  51  patients  with  oesophageal  candidiasis  who 
were considered efficacy failures after having received treatment prior antifungal therapy for at least 
14 days were also discussed, their results will be mentioned briefly here. 
Endpoints: 
Complete  response:  Resolution  of  all  clinical  signs  and  symptoms,  bronchoscopic  and/or 
radiographic  abnormalities  attributable  to  fungal  infection  present  at  baseline,  AND  (where 
obtainable) mycological eradication  
Partial response: Major improvement in clinical signs, symptoms, bronchoscopic and/or radiographic 
abnormalities attributable to fungal infection present at baseline. 
The median duration of voriconazole treatment of the refractory candidiasis population varied between 
54 to 65 days across the subgroups. 
Outcome by infection category 
The outcomes according to broad infection categories are presented in Table below. 
17/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
Outcome According To Infection Category 
Refractory infection category 
Candidaemia (n=21) 
Disseminated or other invasive 
candidiasis (n=34) 
Partial 
response 
Complete 
response 
7/21 
8/34 
3/21 
6/34 
Oesophageal candidiasis (n=51) 
19/51 
12/51 
(HIV/AIDS patients) 
Overall 
success 
10/21 
(47.6%) 
14/34 
(41.2%) 
31/51 
(60.8%) 
Outcome by underlying condition: 
Successful outcome in invasive refractory candidiasis patients according to primary underlying disease 
and infection group. 
18/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Success at end of 
voriconazole 
treatment: 
Candidaemia 
Success at end of voriconazole 
treatment: Disseminated or other 
invasive candidiasis 
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
e
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
3/13 
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
l
a
i
t
r
a
P
2/13 
s
s
e
c
c
u
S
5/13 
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
e
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
3/20 
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
l
a
i
t
r
a
P
4/20 
s
s
e
c
c
u
S
7/20 
13/34  (38.2%) 
2/11 
2/11 
4/11 
2/16 
4/16 
6/16 
10/27  (37.0%) 
Cancer 
♦  Haematological 
malignancy 
♦ Other malignancy 
1/2 
0/2 
1/2 
1/4 
0/4 
1/4 
3/7 
HIV/AIDS 
1/2 
0/2 
1/2 
- 
- 
- 
31/52  (59.6%) 
Other haematologic 
disorder 
Prior solid organ 
transplantation 
Other 
immunosupression 
Other disorder or 
unknown 
2/3 
0/3 
2/3 
1/4 
0/4 
1/4 
1/1 
0/1 
1/1 
3/4 
0/4 
3/4 
0/1 
0/1 
0/1 
0/2 
½ 
1/2 
0/1 
1/1 
1/1 
1/4 
¼ 
2/4 
3/7 
4/5 
1/3 
3/5 
All conditions 
7/21 
3/21 
10/21 
8/34 
6/34 
14/34 
55/106* (51.9%) 
* - this column includes oesophageal candidiasis subjects 
Note:  Grey  shaded  areas  are  subsets.    ‘Complete  response’  and  ‘Partial  response’  are  combined  for 
overall outcome of success.   
Three  of  four  liver  transplant  patients  with  candidaemia  or  disseminated  infection  had  a  complete 
response  following  voriconazole  treatment;  likewise  a  single  lung  transplant  patient  had  a  complete 
response. 
Outcome by Haematologic Risk factors 
Eight  of  the  11  patients  with  refractory  systemic  candidiasis  who  had  undergone  bone  marrow 
transplantation, received allogeneic grafts, a recognised high risk group (three patients also had graft-
versus-host  disease).    Of  these  allografts,  2/8  patients  responded  to  treatment.    Of  patients  with 
systemic  infection,  one  with  relapsed  haematological  malignancy  had  a  partial  response,  and  3/12 
patients with prolonged neutropenia responded successfully to voriconazole treatment. 
19/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline Absolute Neutrophil Count 
This  information  was  not  always  available.  However,  2/8  patients  with  an  ANC  of  less  than  500 
cells/mm3  treated  with  voriconazole  for  candidaemia  or  disseminated  infection  had  a  complete 
response.  Of patients with ANCs of >1000 cells/mm3 and refractory systemic infection, 14/25 (56%) 
had a successful outcome. 
Outcome by prior antifungal exposure 
The prior antifungal  data indicate that  exposure  was  extensive in the  majority  of the population.  Of 
patients with candidaemia  or disseminated/other invasive  candidiasis 36 received  more than 21 days 
prior  treatment.  Nineteen  of  21  (90.5%)  patients  with  refractory  candidaemia  had  received  prior 
antifungals  for  a  minimum  of  eight  days.  In  the  combined  candidaemia  or  disseminated/invasive 
candidiasis groups, 22/55 (40%) patients received more than one antifungal for a period exceeding 28 
days. 
Successful outcome following voriconazole treatment is summarised in Table below.  
Successful Outcome According To Prior Antifungal Usage 
Prior antifungals  
Successful outcome at end 
of voriconazole treatment: 
Refractory candidaemia 
and disseminated or 
invasive candidiasis 
(combined) 
Fluconazole alone 
4/9 
Fluconazole + amphotericin B 
9/24 
Fluconazole + any other 
combination 
Amphotericin B alone 
Amphotericin B + any other 
combination (excl. Fluconazole) 
- 
0/6 
8/12 
Itraconazole alone or in any 
other combination (excluding 
fluconazole or Amphotericin B) 
2/3 
Mycological aspects 
C. glabrata and C. krusei were the most prevalent species in refractory candidaemia.  It is noteworthy 
that  in  the  refractory  combined  systemic  candidiasis  group,  there  were  39  non-albicans  Candida 
species  (including  16  infections  with  C.  glabrata  and  10  infections  with  C.  krusei)  at  baseline, 
compared to 14 isolates of C. albicans and 14 unspeciated strains (in the refractory oesophageal group 
C. albicans was the predominant causative species). 
20/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Successful outcome in refractory candidiasis patients according to baseline Candida species 
Baseline species and 
associated clinical 
outcome* 
Success at end of 
voriconazole 
treatment:  
Candidaemia 
Success at end of 
voriconazole 
treatment: 
Disseminated or 
other invasive 
candidiasis 
e
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
l
a
i
t
r
a
P
s
s
e
c
c
u
S
e
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
l
a
i
t
r
a
P
s
s
e
c
c
u
S
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
C. albicans  
0/3 
0/3 
0/3 
2/11 
1/11 
3/11 
C. glabrata 
1/6 
1/6 
2/6 
4/10 
0/10 
4/10 
C. krusei 
3/6 
0/6 
3/6 
1/4 
1/4 
2/4 
C. tropicalis 
0/4 
1/4 
1/4 
2/5 
2/5 
4/5 
C. parapsilosis 
2/2 
0/2 
2/2 
- 
C. famata 
1/1 
0/1 
1/1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
C. kefyr 
- 
- 
- 
0/1 
1/1 
1/1 
Candida species 
1/3 
1/3 
2/3 
1/6 
2/6 
3/6 
Fungus unspecified 
- 
- 
- 
1/5 
1/5 
2/5 
Note:  Grey  shaded  areas  are  subsets:  ‘Complete  response’  and  ‘Partial  response’  are  combined  for 
overall outcome of success *  The subject’s overall outcome is linked to each organism listed: where 
patients had >1 infecting species, the corresponding subject outcome is listed more than once 
The  relation  of  response  to  mycological  resistance  data  at  baseline  is  difficult  to  assess.  The 
susceptibility  data  are  very  limited  due  to  confirmation  by  histology  alone  or  the  unavailability  of 
original  cultures  prior  to  patients’  entry  into  these  salvage  treatment  studies.  Success  at  the  end  of 
voriconazole  treatment  according  to  specified  leading  baseline  Candida  species  with  baseline 
susceptibility data for fluconazole is shown in the following derived table.  
21/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Species 
Fluconazole 
MIC      (mg/L) 
Success in  
Candidaemia 
C. albicans  
C. glabrata 
C. 
tropicalis 
C. krusei 
>64 
16-32 
<8 
>64 
16-32 
<8 
>64 
16-32 
<8 
>64 
16-32 
- 
- 
- 
2/3 
- 
0/2 
1/2 
- 
2/2 
Success in Disseminated 
or other invasive 
candidiasis 
1/1 
- 
1/3 
1/1 
1/1 
0/2 
1/1 
1/1 
1/2 
- 
- 
The  available  data  do  not  suggest  a  consistent  pattern  in  responsiveness  according  to  baseline 
susceptibility of the Candida species in these limited numbers of patients and isolates. 
Serious infections caused by Scedosporium spp. and Fusarium spp. 
Efficacy  of  voriconazole in the treatment  of Scedosporium and  Fusarium infections  was assessed in 
the pooled efficacy analysis: 
In  19/38  (50%)  Scedosporium  cases  success  was  noted,  the  majority  were  immunocompromised 
patients  and  had  disseminated  infections.  A  total  of  15  cases  with  cerebral  scedosporiosis  received 
voriconazole and were included in the pooled analysis. In all cases the diagnosis was based either on 
the  positive  brain/CSF  histology/mycology  (definite  infection)  or  on  the  typical  brain  CT/MRI 
findings accompanying a definite fungal infection in another site. The majority of these patients were 
immunocompromised  and  had  failed  previous  antifungal  therapies.  A  successful  outcome  was 
demonstrated  in  9/15  patients.  Nine  of  21  patients  with  Fusarium  spp.  infections  were  successfully 
treated with voriconazole.  Of these 7, 3 had eye, one had sinus and 3 had disseminated infection.   
Supportive studies 
Aspergillosis 
Study  150-304  was a prospectively  designed  non-comparative,  multicentre, international (European) 
study of voriconazole in (primarily adult) patients with acute invasive aspergillosis i.e. a diagnosis of 
definite  or  probable  acute  invasive  aspergillosis  (primary  patients)  or  with  definite  acute  invasive 
aspergillosis who had not responded to an adequate course of other anti-fungal therapy or were unable 
to tolerate previous anti-fungal therapy (e.g. IV amphotericin B) (salvage patients). 
 (A supportive historical control study (A1501003) including patients who were matched with those in 
the  pivotal  prospective  study  and  during  roughly  the  same  period  as  the  pivotal  study  was  also 
provided).  
‘Primary’  therapy  patients  were  allowed  to  receive  up  to  ten  days  of  previous  systemic  anti-fungal 
drugs. Inclusion  for salvage therapy  with  voriconazole  was defined  as follows: “patients aged 14-75 
years  with  a  diagnosis  of  definite  acute  invasive  aspergillosis  and  who  have  not  responded  to  an 
adequate  course  of  other  antifungal  therapy,  or  were  unable  to  tolerate  intravenous  amphotericin  B 
therapy”.  Roughly  1/3  of  the  ITT  patients  were  salvage  therapy  patients.  The  number  of  salvage 
treatment patients is thus very small which hampers the assessment 
The predominant underlying disease was cancer, mainly haematological malignancies. The duration of 
treatment was to be a minimum of 4 weeks to a maximum of 24 weeks, depending on the response of 
the  patient.  The  protocol  set  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  clinical  response  as  assessed  by  the 
investigator at EOT. 
22/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The overall successful outcome rates were as follows: (study 150-304) 
Response 
ITT Population 
(N=137)1 
PP Population 
(N=101)1 
Success 
- 
- 
Complete 
Partial 
74 
49 
25 
(54.0%) 
(35.8%) 
(18.2%) 
54 
37 
17 
(53.5%) 
(36.6%) 
(16.8%) 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Overall, data  from 1214 voriconazole-treated patients  and 571 amphotericin B  formulation- and 197 
fluconazole-treated patients from prospectively designed  clinical trials formed the basis of the safety 
assessment  of  voriconazole  in  the  original  submission.  In  addition,  289  normal  volunteers  received 
multiple  doses  of  voriconazole  in  the  Phase  I  programme,  258  patients  received  voriconazole  on  a 
compassionate use basis and 185 patients in Studies 150-302 and 95CK39-673 were also treated. The 
clinical  experience in  children aged <15  years is limited to 61  patients based  on the pooled  efficacy 
analysis. 
Of the 1214 safety assessment patients who received voriconazole (therapeutic studies presented in the 
intial  submission),  203  had  a  duration  of  voriconazole  therapy  of  greater  than  12  weeks,  with  56 
patients receiving voriconazole for over 6 months. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
AEs  considered  as  treatment-related  (TRAEs)  and  occurring  in  ≥  5%  of  patients  in  any  treatment 
group are summarised in the following table. 
THERAPEUTIC STUDIES 
ALL STUDIES 
VORI 
Total number treated 
1 214 
AMP 
571 
VORI 
1 946 
Number with AEs 
667 (54.9%) 
444 (77.8%) 
1007 (51.7%) 
Abnormal vision 
251 (20.7%) 
5 (0.9%) 
Fever 
Rash 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Chills 
Headache 
Tachycardia 
Photophobia 
Hypertension 
Hypotension 
Hypokalaemia 
Vasodilatation 
Kidney function 
abnormal 
87 (7.2%) 
80 (6.6%) 
70 (5.8%) 
61 (5.0%) 
60 (4.9%) 
38 (3.1%) 
36 (3.0%) 
29 (2.4%) 
28 (2.3%) 
27 (2.2%) 
25 (2.1%) 
21 (1.7%) 
6 (0.5%) 
138 (24.2%) 
28 (4.9%) 
74 (13.0%) 
67 (11.7%) 
147 (25.7%) 
27 (4.7%) 
47 (8.2%) 
2 (0.4%) 
37 (6.5%) 
29 (5.1%) 
89 (15.6%) 
49 (8.6%) 
32 (5.6%) 
439 (22.6%) 
90 (4.6%) 
105 (5.4%) 
85 (4.4%) 
76 (3.9%) 
61 (3.1%) 
105 (5.4%) 
37 (1.9%) 
98 (5.0%) 
29 (1.5%) 
29 (1.5%) 
26 (1.3%) 
23 (1.2%) 
7 (0.4%) 
23/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Creatinine increased 
5 (0.4%) 
57 (10.0%) 
8 (0.4%) 
Abnormal  vision,  headache,  and  sepsis  (all  causality)  occurred  more  frequently  in  the  voriconazole 
treated patients than patients in the control groups on the basis of the pooled analysis. Abnormal vision 
was the most frequently reported treatment related AE for voriconazole with a rate of 251/1214 (21%) 
vs. 5/571 (< 1%) for amphotericin B (3 and 0 cases respectively were severe). 
This  has  been  specifically  monitored  throughout  the  clinical  trial  programme  on  the  basis  of 
observation made during the phase I studies. In the latter studies there were specific investigations of 
the  effects  of  voriconazole  on  the  electrophysiology  of  the  retina  and  visual  cortex.  There  were  no 
indications of organic damage; this has also not been the case in the prolonged exposure to the agent 
in  the  phase  II-III  studies  and  compassionate  use  programme.  Phase  I  investigations  addressed  also 
potential  cardiotoxicity  of  voriconazole  since  arrhythmias  were  occasionally  observed  in  the 
preclinical pharmacology and toxicology studies in dogs. Hence, investigations included standardised 
measurements of QTc intervals in volunteer studies.  
ECG  data  from  eight  studies  where  ECGs  had  been  taken,  were  re-measured  by  an  independent 
contractor. There was no visual evidence of a relationship between changes in QTc and either dose or 
plasma  concentrations  of  voriconazole  for single  dose administration,  for absolute  values  of QTc  or 
changes from baseline. 
As with other azoles, voriconazole can lead to the occurrence of skin reactions such as rash. However, 
the incidence of rash in the voriconazole group, when corrected by the treatment duration, was lower 
compared to Amphotericin B (1.94 versus 8.07).   
Following the reporting  of infusion related  adverse  events in  four  female  volunteers participating in 
the voriconazole development programme, a full clinical review of potential infusion related adverse 
events across the programme has been performed. Batch relatedness seemed unlikely to explain these 
reactions that occurred at a higher rate per number of infusion exposures in healthy volunteers than in 
patients.  The  clinical  data  indicate  that  events  of  vasodilatation  or  anaphylactoid  type  events 
associated with infusion can occur at very low a frequency. These are however, unlikely to present a 
significant hazard to patients being treated for invasive aspergillosis or other serious fungal infections. 
Since  there  has  been  evidence  to  suggest  that  administration  of  the  i.v.  formulation  of  voriconazole 
could be associated with infusion-related reactions section 4.4 of the SPC reflects this potential risk. 
Furthermore,  the  company  has  committed  to  further  investigate  the  mechanism  of  these  infusion 
related reactions. 
The  safety  phase  I  studies  have  shown  major  voriconazole  side  effects  i.e.,  visual  disturbances  and 
liver  function  tests  abnormalities  were  associated  with  the  exposure  to  the  antifungal  agent  (both 
Cmax and AUC). 
The  intravenous  form  containing  the  new  excipient  SBECD  (160  mg/ml)  did  not  appear  to  be 
associated  with  extra toxicity  although  caution in  case  of renal impairment is required. See relevant 
parts of the SPC. 
A warning statement on the potential for photosensitivity reaction is included in SPC Section 4.4. 
Many treatment related AEs reported in the voriconazole-group are expected (azole class effects), AEs 
may be due to concurrent diseases.  Most cases have been considered as mild or moderate in intensity 
since  in  therapeutic  studies  only  about  10%  of  VORI-patients  (126  patients)  experienced  severe 
TRAEs (compared to 19% (111 patients) in the AMP-group). For the most frequent TRAEs such as 
abnormal vision, fever, rash, nausea, severe effects occurred in < 1% of patients. 
The  majority  of  the  most  frequently  reported  treatment  related  serious  AE  with  voriconazole  are 
related  to  hepatic  effects.  In  addition  to  these  events,  other  noteworthy  SAEs  occurring  in  patients 
taking  voriconazole  where  a  relationship  to  treatment  could  not  be  ruled  out  were  pancreatitis  (four 
cases),  hepatitis  (three  cases),  hepatic  failure  (four  cases),  hypoglycaemia  (three  cases), 
thrombocytopenia  (five  cases),  erythema  multiforme  (one  case),  epidermal  necrolysis  (one  case), 
leucopenia  (three  cases),  bone  marrow  aplasia  (one  case),  pancytopenia  (two  cases)  and 
granulocytopenia (three cases). These cases were confounded by factors relating to progression of the 
underlying disease and the presence of numerous concomitant medications. 
24/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
The liver was identified as the principal target organ in animal toxicology studies with voriconazole. 
These  results  have  been  confirmed  in  clinical  studies.  Hepatotoxicity  risk  is  increased  for  Cmax  at 
5000-6000 ng/ml. Therefore, this correlation associated  with the  wide inter-subject  variability  of the 
voriconazole pharmacokinetics variability suggest that a therapeutic drug monitoring approach could 
help to  avoid  hepatic toxicity  as  further  mentioned in the SPC. The  monitoring  of  hepatoxicity in  a 
targeted PMS strategy is part of the follow up measures post approval.  
 No deaths where a causal contribution of study drug could not be excluded have been reported. 
Discontinuations 
Hepatic effects (e.g. increased liver enzymes, bilirubinaemia, and cholestatic jaundice) were also the 
most  frequently  reported  treatment  related  reason  for  discontinuation  of  voriconazole.  Treatment 
related  discontinuations  due  to  cholestatic  jaundice  (7  cases),  abnormal  vision  (7  cases)  and 
hallucinations  (5  cases)  were  reported  only  for  voriconazole.  Discontinuations  due  to  elevated 
creatinine  and  abnormal  kidney  function  were  reported  at  a  higher  rate  for  patients  treated  with 
amphotericin B formulations than for patients given voriconazole.  
Comparative safety assessment: 
Study 150-305 
In the  double-blind study  150-  305 the rate  of treatment  related discontinuations in the  voriconazole 
group was greater (6.0%) than in the fluconazole group (1.6%). The rates of treatment related adverse 
events  reported  were  higher  in  the  voriconazole  group  (30%)  vs.  approx.  14%  in  the  fluconazole 
group,  and  tended  to  be  more  severe.  The  most  frequent  and  distinguishing  adverse  effects  of 
voriconazole  occurring  at  higher  rates  were  those  related  to  abnormal  vision  and  hepatic/metabolic 
effects.  
Study 150-603 
A  similar  trend  was  seen  for  the  treatment  related  adverse  events  in  the  large  study  150-603.    This 
study  compared  voriconazole  to  liposomal  amphotericin  B  in  the  empirical  treatment  of  fungal 
infections  in  immunocompromised  subjects.    Patients  receiving  voriconazole  had  a  higher  rate  of 
abnormal  vision  (23.8%)  than  in  the  control  group  (0.9%).  Furthermore,  hallucinations  were  also 
reported at a higher rate in the voriconazole group (4.3% vs. 0.5% in the control group); similarly this 
held also for headache. In this study the rates of serious hepatic effects were similar in both treatment 
groups, although higher rates of increased SGPT, SGOT, alkaline phosphatase and increased hepatic 
enzymes were reported in the voriconazole group. Cardiovascular effects seemed also to be reported at 
similar  rates,  for  example  treatment  related  bradycardia    (1.9  %  vs.  1.4  %  in  the  voriconazole  and 
control  groups  respectively).  However,  there  were  two  patients  with  heart  arrest  with  causality 
possibly attributed to voriconazole in this study. Reported cases of hyperkalaemia were also higher in 
the voriconazole group (0.5% vs. 0 in the control group) whereas hypokalaemia was more frequently 
reported in the control group (14.7% vs. 4.0% in the voriconazole group).  
The rates of renal adverse events were similar in the two treatment groups. However, the proportion of 
patients who discontinued due to acute kidney failure was higher in the voriconazole group than in the 
control group (2.9% and 0.2%, respectively). There were 33 deaths (8.0%) in the voriconazole group 
and 25 (5.9%) in the control MITT treatment groups. Further review of these cases suggests that lack 
of antifungal efficacy of voriconazole was not responsible for the difference in deaths. 
Study 150-307/602 
In the comparative study (Study 150-307/602) against Amphotericin B, the latter was poorly tolerated 
and  associated  with  more  discontinuations.  Voriconazole  was  better  tolerated  allowing  for  longer 
duration  of  therapy.  The  proportion  of  patients  of  experiencing  drug-related  AEs  leading  to 
discontinuation  was  consistently  lower  for  voriconazole-treated  patients  than  patients  receiving 
amphotericin  B  (MITT  population).  The  burden  of  amphotericin  B  toxicity  was  seen  as  renal 
dysfunction and infusion related reactions. Visual AEs were more frequent in the voriconazole group. 
Nearly all of the visual AEs were mild or moderate, did not lead to discontinuation, and resolved. 
25/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Incidence of treatment emergent AEs (all causalities) reported by >20% of patients in 
Any treatment group 
Regimen 
(N = 196) 
Voriconazole 
IRT 
(N = 196) 
27 (13.8%)  35 (17.9%) 
28 (14.3%) 
18 (9.2%) 
65 (33.2%)  65 (33.2%) 
11 (5.6%) 
9 (4.6%) 
14 (7.1%) 
10 (5.1%) 
34 (17.3%)  43 (21.9%) 
56 (28.6%)  70 (35.7%) 
23 (11.7%) 
18 (9.2%) 
46 (23.5%)  54 (27.6%) 
34 (17.3%)  42 (21.4%) 
45 (23.0%)  52 (26.5%) 
35 (17.9%)  40 (20.4%) 
43 (21.9%)  54 (27.6%) 
Amphotericin B 
IRT 
(N = 185) 
27 (14.6%) 
31 (16.8%) 
6 (3.2%) 
37 (20.0%) 
54 (29.2%) 
25 (13.5%) 
40 (21.6%) 
37 (20.0%) 
40 (21.6%) 
17 (9.2%) 
21 (11.4%) 
7 (3.8%) 
31 (16.8%) 
Regimen 
(N = 185) 
40 (21.6%) 
43 (23.2%) 
8 (4.3%) 
43 (23.2%) 
64 (34.6%) 
50 (27.0%) 
68 (36.8%) 
47 (25.4%) 
61 (33.0%) 
36 (19.5%) 
40 (21.6%) 
25 (13.5%) 
53 (28.6%) 
Abdominal pain 
Abnormal kidney function 
Abnormal vision 
Chills 
Creatinine increased 
Diarrhoea 
Fever 
Hypokalaemia 
Nausea 
Peripheral oedema 
Rash 
Sepsis 
Vomiting 
Laboratory findings 
In the voriconazole programme, clinically significant elevations in transaminases occurred at a rate of 
160/1214  (13.2%)  in  the  primary  safety  populations.  With  respect  to  the  hepatic  toxicity  specific 
PK/PD  analyses  have  shown  hepatic  enzyme  elevations  to  be  correlated  with  voriconazole  plasma 
levels.  The  abnormalities  are  usually  reversible  on  discontinuation  of  the  drug.  The  incidence  of 
clinically significant LFT abnormalities is unaffected  by  gender. Overall, the  data  do  not suggest an 
age effect, although patients younger than 18 years of age are represented to a very limited extent. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Voriconazole is presented as both film-coated tablets (two strengths) and as a powder for solution for 
infusion. The tablet formulation is a  wet  granulation  common blend. The poor aqueous solubility  of 
voriconazole  was  overcome  in  the  parenteral  product  by  its  complexation  with  a  novel  excipient, 
SBECD, and subsequent lyophilisation to produce a sterile product suitable for parenteral use. 
The quality dossier for both Vfend coated tablets and  powder for solution for infusion indicates that 
the active substance and both finished products are manufactured and controlled in a relevant way, in 
compliance  with  current  EU  and  ICH  guidelines.    Satisfactory  information  has  been  provided  to 
demonstrate  that  these  manufacture  and  control  processes  routinely  and  consistently  generate  a 
product of uniform quality when used in accordance with the conditions defined in the SPC.  
Some  outstanding  GMP  compliance  issues  at  the  parenteral  manufacturing  site  (Catalytica,  USA) 
remain.    An  undertaking  has  been  provided  by  the  applicant  that  the  product  will  not  be  made 
commercially  available  until  the  remaining  issues  are  satisfactorily  resolved  or  an  alternative 
manufacturing site is approved. 
Also, at the time of the Opinion, the CPMP concluded that a number of minor quality issues remained 
to  be  resolved.    These  issues  were  considered  to  have  no  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  balance  of  the 
product  when  used  according  to  the  SPC.    It  was  agreed  that  they  should  be  resolved  as  follow-up 
measures to be submitted post-authorisation. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Voriconazole  is  a  broad-spectrum  antifungal  agent  with  potent  in  vitro  activity  against  the  primary 
opportunistic pathogens: Aspergillus spp., Candida spp. and Cryptococcus spp., fluconazole-resistant 
strains of C. albicans, as well as other Candida spp. which are inherently less sensitive to fluconazole 
(e.g.  C.  krusei  and  C.  glabrata).  Voriconazole  is  also  active  against  a  wide  range  of  less  common 
26/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pathogens, including organisms that are resistant to fluconazole, itraconazole and amphotericin B (e.g. 
Fusarium spp., Scedosporium inflatum, Acremonium kilensii, Trichosporon spp). 
Repeat-dose oral studies in rats, mice and dogs have shown the liver to be the main target organ, with 
a range of adaptive and functional changes. The toxicology programme suggested that the potential for 
liver  toxicity  by  voriconazole  is  comparable  to  other  azoles.  Based  on  the  preclinical  data  there  is 
virtually no margin of safety for the liver toxicity and by necessity, the safety has to be based mainly 
on  clinical  data. The Company  has  committed to perform studies into the  genotoxic potential of the 
fluoropyrimidinedihydroxy metabolite and into developing a route of synthesis  of  SBECD in such a 
way that it does no longer contain 1,4 butane sultone.  This information has been included in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
Invasive aspergillosis  
Critically reviewed  data in the  original MAA (study  150-304) together  with the requested results  of 
the  comparative  studies  (150-307/602)  are  convincingly  supportive  of  the  clinical  benefit  of 
voriconazole in the treatment of immunocompromised patients with invasive aspergillosis. In the latter 
study  versus  conventional  amphotericin  B  the  blinded  expert  assessment  of  the  results  showed  that 
global response for voriconazole-treated patients was superior to that for amphotericin B (53% versus 
31%). The survival  for  voriconazole  was statistically  significantly  greater than that  for  conventional 
amphotericin  B  and  a  clinically  and  statistically  significant  benefit  was  shown  in  favour  of 
voriconazole for time to death and time to discontinuation due to toxicity. 
Serious invasive Candida infections 
With  focus  on  the  refractory  population  the  combined  candidaemia  or  disseminated/invasive 
candidiasis groups, 22/55 (40%) patients received more than one antifungal for a period exceeding 28 
days. The majority of the refractory population had prior therapy with fluconazole or fluconazole plus 
amphotericin B and successful clinical outcome was observed in 13/33 (39.4%) of these cases. Eight  
of  12  subjects  who  had  previously  received  amphotericin  B  plus  any  other  anti-fungal  except 
fluconazole,  were  successfully  treated  with  voriconazole,  and  in  the  total  refractory  systemic 
candidiasis  population  successful  outcome  was  seen  in  24/55  (43.6%)  subjects.  In  the  majority  of 
successful  cases (15/24) the response  was partial. The response  was, as  expected, influenced  by  the 
underlying  disease  and  degree  of  neutropenia.  Success  was  limited  to  3/12  (25%)  patients  with 
prolonged neutopenia and 2/8 cases with neutrophil count <500 cells/mm3. 
Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 
The data are supportive of the benefit of voriconazole in these rare life threatening serious infections 
in immunocompromised patients for whom there is very limited, if any alternative therapy.  Success 
with voriconazole was described in 19 (50%) of 38 cases of scedosporiosis, and 9 ( 42%) of  21 cases 
of fusariosis. The beneficial effects of voriconazole in a few cases of cerebral infection is noteworthy.  
Safety 
Many treatment related AEs reported with voriconazole are rather expected (azole class effects). Most 
cases have been considered as mild or moderate in intensity. For the most frequent treatment related 
AEs such as abnormal vision, fever, rash, and nausea, severe effects occurred in < 1% of patients. 
The safety studies have shown that side effects to voriconazole such as visual disturbances and liver 
function  tests  abnormalities  were  associated  with  the  exposure  levels  of  the  antifungal  agent  (both 
Cmax and AUC).  
The liver was identified as the principal target organ in animal toxicology studies with voriconazole. 
These  results  have  been  confirmed  in  patient  studies.  The  monitoring  of  hepatoxicity  in  a  targeted 
PMS strategy is part of the follow-up measures post approval.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Matters related to the efficacy of the drug in (1) Candida infections, (2) use in children and (3) safety 
in particular with regard to hepatic safety and anaphylactoid reactions, were discussed during on oral 
explanation before the CPMP.  The CPMP was in favour of approving voriconazole for the treatment 
of fluconazole resistant Candida infections in patients with invasive candidiasis.     
27/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
The susceptibility data in conjunction with the clinical efficacy, support a role for voriconazole in the 
treatment of serious invasive infections caused by both C. albicans or non-albicans species that have 
failed to respond, and that may have reduced susceptibility, to fluconazole. 
In  invasive  aspergillosis  there  is  a  favourable  efficacy  of  the  voriconazole  treatment  regimen 
compared to amphotericin B across different subgroups of patients - with or without prior antifungal 
therapy and severe neutropenia. 
Data are supportive of the benefit of voriconazole in rare life threatening Scedosporium and Fusarium 
infections in immunocompromised patients for whom there is very limited, if any, alternative therapy. 
The  safety  concerns  with  voriconazole,  primarily  related  to  hepatotoxic  effects  generally  compares 
favourably  with  other  alternative  treatments.    These  abnormalities  are  usually  reversible  on 
discontinuation  of  the  drug  but  will  be  further  monitored  and  assessed  in  the  post  marketing  phase. 
The  safety  aspects  have  been  adequately  reflected  in  the  SPC  and  will  be  further  addressed  by  the 
Company following a positive CPMP opinion.  
The  Benefit/Risk  for  voriconazole  for  treatment  of  the  suggested  indications  was  thus  found  to  be 
positive.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Vfend  in  the  treatment  of  invasive  aspergillosis,  fluconazole-resistant 
serious  invasive  Candida  infections  (including  C.  krusei)  and  serious  fungal  infections  caused  by 
Scedosporium spp. and Fusarium spp. was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
Marketing Authorisation. 
28/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
