SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of VIAGRA. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 December 2002.  For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1.  Introduction 
Male  erectile  dysfunction  (ED)  has  been  defined  as  the  inability  to  attain  and/or  maintain  penile 
erection  sufficient  for  satisfactory  sexual  performance  as  part  of  the  overall  process  of  male  sexual 
function  (NIH  Consensus  Conference,  1993).  ED  can  have  a  profound  impact  on  the  quality  of  life 
with  subjects  often  reporting  increased  anxiety,  loss  of  self-esteem,  lack  of  self-confidence,  tension 
and  difficulty  in  the  relationship  with  their  partner.  The  prevalence  of  ED  has  been  found  to  be 
associated with age. Complete ED has an estimated prevalence of about 5% in men aged 40 years to 
15% at age 70 years. It should be recognised that desire, orgasmic capacity and ejaculatory capacity 
may  be  intact  even  in  the  presence  of  erectile  dysfunction  or  may  be  deficient  to  some  extent  and 
contribute to the sense of inadequate sexual function. The term impotence, together with its pejorative 
implications, is less precise and should not be used. The degree of erectile dysfunction can vary and 
may range from a partial decrease in penile rigidity to complete erectile failure and the frequency of 
these failures may also range from “a few times a year” to “usually unable to obtain an erection”. 
ED  is  often  multifactorial  in  etiology  (organic,  psychogenic,  or  mixed).  Sometimes  ED  is  related  to 
stress problems with the sexual partner or transient psychological factors.  
Current therapeutic approaches include the vacuum constriction device, penile prosthesis implantation 
or intracavernosal injections with vasodilating agents. They are far from satisfactory for most patients 
and some of these have limitations to their use.  
Recent  insights  into  the  mechanism  of  penile  erection  have  led  to  the  development  of 
sildenafil, a novel orally active drug for the treatment of penile erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil 
is a new chemical entity and a potent inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) specific 
phosphodiesterase (PDE5). During natural erection, nitric oxide (NO) is released and this triggers the 
synthesis of cGMP which, in turn, relaxes the corpora cavernosa (a key point in the erection process). 
PDE5  present  in  the  corpus  cavernosum  breaks  down  cGMP,  sildenafil  prevents  the  breakdown  of 
cGMP and, thus enhances the induced erectile response. 
2.  Overview of Module III of the dossier: chemical and pharmaceutical aspects  
VIAGRA  is  presented  as  blue  film-coated,  rounded  diamond  shaped  tablets  containing  sildenafil 
citrate equivalent respectively to 25, 50 and 100 mg of sildenafil. Other components of the tablet core 
are  microcrystalline  cellulose  and  calcium  hydrogen  phosphate 
(anhydrous)  as  diluents, 
croscarmellose sodium as disintegrant and magnesium stearate as lubricant. A two-stage tablet coating 
employs an aqueous suspension of Opadry Blue (hypromellose, lactose, triacetin, titanium dioxide and 
indigo  carmine  aluminium  lake)  followed  by  a  protective  clear  coat  of  Opadry  Clear  (hypromellose 
and triacetin). Two types of standard primary packaging materials were proposed: PVC/PE/ACLAR-
Aluminium blister (1 or 4 tablets per blister; cartons containing 1, 4, 8, or 12 tablets) and white opaque 
high  density  polyethylene  (HDPE)  bottles  (4,  8  or  12  per  bottle)  with  child-resistant  closures  with 
external  polypropylene  internal  polyethylene  sealing.  A  final  decision  was  taken  by  the  applicant  to 
only market blister packs and therefore, the bottle presentations were withdrawn (27 May 98).  
Active substance 
Sildenafil citrate is a white to off-white crystalline powder with a solubility profile dependent on pH.  
In  the  solid  state,  sildenafil  citrate  is  considered  to  be  extremely  stable  as  demonstrated  by  data 
derived  from  forced  degradation  studies.  It  is  stable  at  90°C  in  an  inert  atmosphere.  Significant 
degradation  occurs  only  under  strong  oxidising  conditions.  Some  degradation  also  occurs  under 
exposure to strong light.  
Sildenafil citrate is an achiral substance and the evidence of its chemical structure has been adequately 
confirmed by elemental analysis, IR NMR, and mass spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography. Other 
1/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
physico-chemical data such as potentiometric titration, UV absorption spectra, dissociation constants, 
thermal studies, hygroscopicity and solubility studies provide further supportive evidence of chemical 
structure. 
Sildenafil citrate is manufactured in a 3-step synthesis. Purifications have been set up after each step 
of synthesis. The final solid is separated, washed, dried, and then sieved or milled to meet the particle 
size specification. 
Stringent  specifications  have  been  set  for  the  synthesis  starting  materials  and  intermediates  and  are 
considered  to  be  adequate.  Extensive  validation  data  and  chromatograms  confirm  the  quality  of  the 
starting  materials.  The specifications  for solvents and reagents are also  considered to be satisfactory 
for such materials. 
The assay of sildenafil citrate and specified impurities are determined by HLPC. The level of solvent, 
used  during  the  purification  and  crystallisation  phases  of  the  sildenafil  citrate,  is  detected  within  an 
acceptable limit by a GC method. The impurity limits proposed in the active substance specification 
have  been  justified  on  the  basis  of  toxicology  studies  and  batch  analysis  data  indicate  suitable 
uniformity.  
Overall,  the  active  substance  is  well  specified  and  characterised.  Limits  are  acceptable  in  view  of 
batch  analysis  data  and  toxicology  studies.  All  analytical  methods  for  starting  materials  and 
intermediates have been adequately validated.  
The active substance tested, in solid state and in dissolution, under accelerated conditions, show that 
sildenafil citrate is stable. Stability studies carried out up to 1 year indicate no significant differences 
in  appearance  and  no  formation  of  degradation  products,  and  support  the  proposed  re-test  period  of  
2 years for the active substance in double polyethylene bags inside a fibre drum. 
Finished product 
Different formulations were developed and used early in clinical studies (capsule, plain white tablet, 
plain blue film-coated tablet). As the blue coating was insufficiently robust to take the stresses of full-
scale  manufacture  and  shipment,  a  clear  film  overcoating  was  added  to  the  proposed  commercial 
tablet. Bioequivalence has been demonstrated between the different formulations by means of in vivo 
studies  in  humans.  Comparison  of  the  dissolution  profiles  of  the  formulation  with  and  without  the 
clear overcoating indicates similar dissolution profiles in a variety of dissolution media. 
Pharmaceutical development 
The  tablets  are  manufactured  using  a  conventional  tablet  formulation,  conventional  pharmaceutical 
equipment  and  processes.  Development  of  the  formulation  and  the  manufacturing  processes  (roller 
compaction,  compression  and  film-coating)  are  well  described.  Compatibility  studies  demonstrated 
that sildenafil citrate was stable with all the tablet excipients except magnesium stearate, which causes 
degradation  with  sildenafil  in  binary  mixtures  under  stress  conditions.  However,  further  stability 
studies showed no degradation and magnesium stearate was subsequently selected as lubricant. 
Manufacture and control 
The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  blending,  screening,  lubrication,  roller  compaction,  and 
compression. The tablet cores are first coated with a blue Opadry coating, and then a clear overcoat. 
Adequate in-process controls are provided to ensure tablet quality. Prior to compression, the potency 
and uniformity of the lubricated blend are determined by specific HPLC assay. 
The  tablet  excipients  including  the  coating  components  (except  for  triacetin  and  indigo  carmine 
aluminium  lake)  comply  with  Ph.  Eur,  and  analytical  certificates  provided  are  acceptable.  Triacetin 
and indigo carmine aluminium lake are specified to USP and Ph. Fr., respectively. 
Batches have been  manufactured to 100% industrial scale (360 kg). Batches obtained from different 
manufacturing sites were of homogeneous characteristics. Furthermore, analytical results of the blend 
and the tablets without (17 batches) or with clear overcoating (5 batches), manufactured from different 
sites, indicates that the manufacturing technology has been successfully transferred to the commercial 
production facility. The manufacturing process is identically robust for the three tested sites and has 
been adequately validated for the commercial formulation at the intended production scale. 
2/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Product specification 
Control  tests  on  the  finished  product  use  adequately  validated  methods,  including  requirements  for 
appearance,  visual  identification,  identification  and  quantitative  determination  of  active  substance, 
determination  of  degradation  products,  uniformity  of  mass,  water  content  and  dissolution  testing.  
The  specification 
is  0.2%  maximum.  
The microbiological quality is controlled in accordance with Ph. Eur., but is proposed as a non-routine 
method. Therefore the microbiological quality of the product should be controlled at the end of its re-
test period. 
total  degradation  products 
(shelf 
limit 
life) 
for 
Results  from  batch  analyses  showed  that  all  batches  complied  with  release  specifications  and 
demonstrated acceptable batch to batch consistency. 
Stability 
For the finished product stored in the proposed packaging materials, long-term stability studies have 
been carried out at different temperatures and conditions (25ºC/60%RH, 30ºC/60%RH, 40ºC/75%RH) 
on batches resulting from Brooklyn (clear coated) up to 9 months, from Amboise (clear coated) up to 
6 months and up to 12 months (non clear coated). Based on the resulting data, a 2-years shelf life is 
acceptable when the product is stored below 30ºC. 
In  summary,  sildenafil  film-coated  tablets  25,  50  and  100  mg  are  conventionally  formulated  and 
manufactured using standard pharmaceutical technology. The chemical-pharmaceutical dossier is well 
documented and guarantees the quality of the active substance and the finished product with regard to 
uniform efficacy and safety. The specifications set are suitable. The company was however requested 
to  provide,  within  the  agreed  timeframe,  batch  analysis  data  generated  from  full-scale  production 
batches,  and  additional  supportive  stability  data  to  confirm  the  2-year  shelf-life.  The  data  provided 
substantiate the stability of the finished product over a maximum of 5 years. 
3.  Overview of Module IV of the dossier: toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Sildenafil  is  a  selective  inhibitor  of  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP)  specific  PDE5  in  the 
corpus  cavernosum,  and  hence  inhibits  the  degradation  of  cGMP  without  affecting  cyclic  AMP 
(cAMP).  Studies  examining  mechanisms  of  penile  erection  have  demonstrated  that  during  sexual 
stimulation,  nitric  oxide  (NO)  is  released  from  penile  nerve  endings.  This  acts  to  increase  levels  of 
cGMP in the corpus cavernosum smooth muscle which is responsible for the vascular events leading 
to erection. PDE5, which is abundantly present in the corpus cavernosum, breaks down cGMP levels 
generated under sexual stimulation. Sildenafil, by inhibiting PDE5, prevents this breakdown and thus 
enhances  the  induced  erectile  response.  PDE  inhibitors  do  not  stimulate  the  production  of  cyclic 
nucleotides,  thus  tissue  cGMP  levels  will  only  increase  following  physiological  activation  of 
guanylate cyclase. 
Over  70  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  conducted  to  demonstrate  the 
selectivity  and  potency  of  sildenafil  and 
in  animals.  
The pharmacodynamic evaluation demonstrates the functional effects of sildenafil in the target tissue 
as a  consequence  of  PDE5 inhibition and  also investigates its  effect in tissues  other  than the  corpus 
cavernosum, especially effects on platelets, smooth muscles (PDE5) and the retina (PDE6).  
its  main  circulating  metabolite 
Studies  in  vitro  have  shown  that  sildenafil  is  selective  for  PDE5,  which  is  involved  in  the  erection 
process. Its effect is more potent on PDE5 than on other known phosphodiesterases. There is a 10-fold 
selectivity over PDE6 which is involved in the phototransduction pathway in the retina. At maximum 
recommended doses, there is an 80-fold selectivity over PDE1, and over 700-fold over PDE2, 3, 4, 7, 
8, 9, 10 and 11. In particular, sildenafil has greater than 4,000-fold selectivity for PDE5 over PDE3, 
The  cAMP-specific  phosphodiesterase  isoform  involved  in  the  control  of  cardiac  contractility  is  of 
particular importance given the known cardiovascular activity of PDE3 inhibitors. 
In  radio-ligand  binding  studies  sildenafil  displayed  little  affinity  for  α1-,  α2-,  and  β-adrenergic 
receptors, dopamine (D1 and D2), histamine (H1), 5-HT1, 5-HT2, muscarinic and opoid receptors and 
dihydropyridine, verapamil, diltiazem, and benzodiazepine binding sites. 
3/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects on corpus cavernosum: In phenylephrine (PE) precontracted isolated rabbit and human corpus 
cavernosum  strips,  sildenafil  enhanced  the  relaxation  induced  by  Electrical  Field  Stimulation  (EFS). 
Relaxation was inhibited by the NO-synthase inhibitor in both the human and rabbit tissues, and in the 
rabbit strips by the guanylate cyclase inhibitor methylene blue, L-n-nitroarginine confirming that the 
NO/cGMP  pathway  is  involved  in  the  relaxation.  In  the  rabbit  model  sildenafil  potentiated  the 
relaxation of the NO donor SNP (sodium nitroprusside) and the endothelium-dependent relaxation of 
the  muscarinic  agonist  methacholine.  In  human  isolated  corpus  cavernosum  strips,  sildenafil  in  the 
absence  of  EFS,  had  no  direct  relaxant  effects.  This  may  reflect  a  higher  endogenous  production  of 
NO in rabbit compared with human isolated corpus cavernosum. 
In  anaesthetised  dogs,  sildenafil  enhanced  the  rise  in  intracavernosal  pressure  in  response  to 
stimulation  of  the  pelvic  nerve.  L-n-nitroarginine  caused  a  dose  related  reduction  in  pressure  in  this 
model, demonstrating that sildenafil enhances the NO mediated rise in corpus cavernosum pressure. 
Effects on platelet function: Sildenafil had no effect per se on platelet aggregation induced by a range 
the 
of  aggregatory  agents,  but  consistent  with 
antiaggregatory and disaggregatory actions of SNP both in vitro and ex vivo. The consequences of this 
antiplatelet  action  have  been  investigated.  There  was  a  trend  to  increased  bleeding  time  in  rat  (60% 
increase not statistically significant, after 0.3 mg/kg i.v.) and bleeding time prolongation was seen in 
rabbits (129% increase for a  dose  of  1  mg/kg i.v.). These  doses are  equivalent to  18.5-25 and  61.7-
83.6 times, respectively, the effective dose on corpus cavernosum pressure in anaesthetised dogs. 
inhibition  of  PDE5,  sildenafil  potentiated 
Haemodynamic activity: Several studies have been conducted to study the haemodynamic activity of 
sildenafil  in  different  animal  species  (rabbit,  dog,  rat,  cat).  These  studies  have  demonstrated  that 
sildenafil has vasodilator properties which can, at higher doses, be associated with reductions in blood 
pressure and accompanied by an indirect increase in heart rate. These pharmacological properties are 
consistent with facial flushing and headache reported as adverse events in clinical studies. However, 
the  submitted  data  did  not  show  consistent  or  dose-related  systemic  haemodynamic  effects  of 
sildenafil at plasma concentrations up to 25-fold higher than those active on the corpus cavernosum. 
Effects on gastrointestinal smooth muscle: Because PDE5 and PDE1 are expressed in smooth muscle, 
the  effects  of  inhibiting  these  PDE  isoenzymes  in  gastrointestinal  smooth  muscle  have  been 
investigated.  In  several  in  vitro  experimental  models  (rat  ileum  and  oesophageal  smooth  muscle, 
mouse  ileum,  and  dog  lower  oesophageal  sphincter)  sildenafil  at  high  concentrations  reduced 
gastrointestinal  smooth  muscle  contractility,  which  may  indicate  a  risk  for  inhibition  of  gastric 
emptying.  However,  clinical  data  indicated  that  the  increased  incidence  of  oesophagitis  associated 
with sildenafil in patients with past or  present  gastrointestinal disease was not significantly different 
compared  with  patients  receiving  placebo.  Taken  also  into  consideration  the  intermittent  use  of 
sildenafil, relevant gastrointestinal side effects are not expected. 
Effects  on  the  retina:  Sildenafil  inhibits  PDE6  in  retina  tissue.  After  absorption  of  light,  rhodopsin 
stimulates PDE6 via the G-protein transducin. This results in a decrease of the concentration of cGMP 
leading  to  hyperpolarisation  of  the  photoreceptors.  Studies  of  the  effect  of  sildenafil  on 
hyperpolarisation  in  vitro  and  on  the  electroretinogram  (ERG)  in  vivo  were  conducted  in  dogs. 
Sildenafil had an effect in vitro on the response of the dog isolated retina to a blue light challenge and 
changed  the  ERG  in  anaesthetised  dogs.  These  effects  were  observed  at  plasma  concentrations 
approximately 25 times higher than those active on the corpus cavernosum in anaesthetised dogs. 
General  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  carried  out  in  the  mouse,  rat  and  cat.  In  general, 
sildenafil  caused  short-lasting  falls  in  blood  pressure  and  left  systolic  pressure  at  high  doses 
accompanied  by  (reflex)  increases  in  heart  rate.  There  was  no  evidence  of  a  direct  effect  on  the 
electrical conductance in the heart. 
From  the  studies  in  isolated  gastrointestinal  smooth  muscle,  it  is  clear  that  high  concentrations  of 
sildenafil  can  reduce  gastrointestinal  smooth  muscle  contractility  most  likely  via  the  potentiation  of 
the  effects  of  NO.  In  rats  at  doses  up  to  10  mg/kg  p.o.  sildenafil  was  without  an  effect  on 
gastrointestinal  propulsive  activity  or  gastric  acid  secretion.  However,  in  mice,  intestinal  transit  was 
markedly  slowed  after  single  and  repeated  oral  doses  of  10  mg/kg  and  higher.  In  addition  all  doses 
caused an increase in the total length of the small intestine. In rats at doses 10 times higher than those 
in mice similar effects were observed.  
4/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic  profile  of  the  main  sildenafil  metabolite:  The  main  circulating  metabolite  of 
sildenafil  is  a  slightly  weaker  inhibitor  of  PDE5  with  an  overall  selectivity  profile  similar  to  that  of 
sildenafil.  In  anaesthetised  rats  and  dogs,  the  metabolite  caused  a  dose-related,  but  transient,  fall  in 
mean 
rate.  
and 
These changes caused by the metabolite were similar to those caused by the parent compound.  
pressure 
increase 
arterial 
blood 
heart 
an 
in 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  sildenafil  was  studied  in  the  mouse,  rat,  rabbit  and  dog,  the  main 
species used in the preclinical programme. Oral absorption was rapid in all species studied, with Tmax 
of 3 hours or less. Systemic bioavailability was attenuated by pre-systemic hepatic metabolism, which 
is consistent to some extent with the plasma clearance value in each species. This results in higher oral 
bioavailability in dog (54%) and female rat (44%), compared with male rat (15%) and mouse (17%). 
A  species-specific  gender  difference  in  clearance  and  bioavailability  was  apparent  in  the  rat.  In 
humans the oral bioavailability is approximately 40%. 
Volume of distribution is similar in rodents and humans but is higher in the dog, probably reflecting 
the  lower  protein  binding  in  this  species.  The  pattern  of  tissue  distribution  with  drug-derived 
radioactivity  in  rat  is  that  expected  for  a  lipophilic  weak  base,  with  radioactivity  detectable  in  most 
tissues  shortly  (0.1  hours)  after  dosing  at  concentrations  generally  higher  than  those  in  blood.  
By 24 hours post-dose residual radioactivity was mainly limited to the retina, substantia nigra and the 
pigmented skin, suggesting that sildenafil and/or its metabolites have an affinity for melanin. 
In all species studied, sildenafil is  metabolised extensively, resulting in metabolic profiles similar to 
that  observed  in  man.  No  significant  human-specific  metabolites  were  identified.  Clearance  of 
sildenafil is via 5 principal pathways of oxidative metabolism, the majority of the dose being excreted 
in the faeces over 48 hours. Des-methylation at the N-methyl piperazine moiety yields UK-103,320 as 
a primary metabolite, and this was present in plasma and excreta from all species studied. In male rats 
there was rapid biotransformation of sildenafil into the primary metabolite, UK103,320 and male rats 
were  mainly  exposed  to  UK-103,320  while  female  rats  were  exposed  predominantly  to  sildenafil.  
The dog had the longest elimination half-life (5.2 h) and was the closest to that of man (approximately 
4 h). In all species the predominant route of excretion was the faeces, which accounted for 73-88% of 
the dose, in comparison with 6-15% for urine. 
Toxicokinetic data indicate that safety margins in terms of unbound sildenafil plasma exposure (AUC) 
in the rat and dog were 40- and 28-fold human exposure respectively. 
Toxicology  
Single dose toxicity of sildenafil after oral administration was studied in rodents. Lethality occurred at 
1000 mg/kg and 500 mg/kg in rats and 1000 mg/kg in mice. Clinical signs, which preceded mortality, 
were partially closed eyes, hunched posture, tremors and depression. 
Repeated dose toxicity of sildenafil after oral administration was studied in mice (up to 3 months), rat 
(up  to  6  months)  and  dog  (up  to  12  months).  In  repeated  dose  studies  in  rat  and  dog,  doses  were 
limited  by  isolated  deaths  at  200  mg/kg  in  rats  and  by  gastric  intolerance  in  dogs  at  80  mg/kg.  
There was no evidence of long term toxicity to the retina. The main effects in rat were adaptive liver 
changes (associated with thyroid follicular hypertrophy). In dog, heart rate was moderately increased 
in  all  studies,  with  no  consistent  changes  in  blood  pressure.  In  chronic  dog  studies,  50  mg/kg  was 
associated with Idiopathic Juvenile Arteritis, a syndrome thought to be an expression of latent disease 
precipitated by stress, rather than a direct toxic effect of the compound. No adverse effect levels in the 
rat  and  dog  were  60  mg/kg  and  15  mg/kg  respectively.  Toxicity  to  reproduction  was  studied  in  rats 
and rabbits. Overall, sildenafil had no adverse effects on fertility and has no teratogenic potential. 
Sildenafil  did  not  induce  mutations  in  bacterial  or  mammalian  cells  in  vitro,  nor  did  it  cause 
clastogenic activity in vitro or in vivo. 
There was no evidence of a carcinogenic effect in mice or rats. In mice (two carcinogenicity studies), 
mortality  was  often  associated  with  gastro-intestinal  dilatation  appearing  a  few  days  before  death. 
There was no evidence  of alteration to the tumour profile. Investigative  studies have shown that the 
mouse  is  particularly  sensitive  to  the  effects  of  sildenafil  on  the  gastrointestinal  tract.  In  the  rat 
carcinogenicity  study,  an  increased  incidence  of  proliferative  changes  in  the  thyroid  in  high  dose 
5/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
males  was  observed,  related  to  an  increase  in  follicular  hyperplasia.  There  was  no  difference  in  the 
incidence  of  carcinomas.  An  investigative  study  suggests  that  this  reflects  the  enzyme  inducing 
properties  of  sildenafil,  associated  with  an  increased  turnover  of  thyroid  hormones,  and  continuous 
stimulation  of  the  thyroid  by  compensatory  sustained  levels  of  thyroid  stimulating  hormone.  In  the 
absence of increases in  liver weight  and of hepatic  centrilobular hypertrophy, it was considered that 
this  mechanism  probably  operates  chronically  at  low  level,  where  liver  changes  would  remain 
undetectable. 
Sildenafil  showed  no  arterial  irritancy or  antigenicity.  An  assessment  of  environmental  risk  was  not 
performed, and no significant environmental effects are anticipated. 
Summary and conclusion on preclinical pharmacology and toxicology: 
Overall, the preclinical pharmacodynamic studies have shown that sildenafil has a high potency and 
selectivity  for  PDE5  and  that  via  smooth  muscle  relaxation,  sildenafil  can  induce  a  rise  in 
intracavernosal pressure during stimulation. Based on this pharmacodynamic profile, several adverse 
events can be anticipated with the use of sildenafil (such as facial flushing, headache, effect on visual 
function).  However  it  should  be  noted  that  almost  all  of  the  possible  adverse  effects  only  occur  at 
doses or plasma concentrations far higher than those needed for the intended pharmacodynamic effect 
of sildenafil.  
Pharmacokinetics  and  toxicokinetics  were  adequately  studied  and  toxicity  was  tested  appropriately. 
Sildenafil was well tolerated at relevant dose levels. Toxicokinetic data for both sildenafil and for the 
main  metabolite  (UK-103,320)  indicate  a  large  margin  between  plasma  exposure  to  drug-related 
components  in  man  and  that  associated  with  toxicity  in  rat  and  dog.  Preclinical  data  revealed  no 
special  risk  for  human.  This  information  has  been  included  in  the  Summary  of  Products 
Characteristics. 
4.  Overview of Module 5 of the dossier: clinical aspects 
The core clinical program, consisting of 31 Phase II/III clinical studies (4 main and other supportive) 
was aimed at evaluating the efficacy and safety of sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction 
(ED) in a broad-spectrum population. In addition, a total of 39 Phase I clinical pharmacology studies 
have  been  submitted  evaluating  safety/tolerability,  pharmacodynamics  and  pharmacokinetics  of 
sildenafil. Studies have been performed in accordance with GCP standards. 
Human pharmacology  
During  sexual  stimulation,  nitric  oxide  (NO)  is  released  from  penile  nerve  endings  leading  to 
increased  levels  of  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP)  in  the  corpus  cavernosum  smooth 
muscle.  cGMP  acts  as  a  mediator  of  vasodilatation.  With  the  relaxation  of  corporal  smooth  muscle, 
arterial filling begins, which initiates the hemodynamic event of a natural erection by engorgement of 
the  sinusoids  in  the  cavernosa  and  veno-occlusion  due  to  the  compression  of  the  subtunical  venules 
against the tunica albuginea. Phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5), present in the corpus cavernosum, breaks 
down cGMP. Sildenafil is an inhibitor of the effects of PDE with selectivity and potency on PDE5. 
 Studies  in  vitro  have  shown  that  sildenafil  is  selective  for  PDE5,  which  is  involved  in  the  erection 
process. Its effect is more potent on PDE5 than on other known phosphodiesterases. There is a 10-fold 
selectivity over PDE6 which is involved in the phototransduction pathway in the retina. At maximum 
recommended doses, there is an 80-fold selectivity over PDE1, and over 700-fold over PDE2, 3, 4, 7, 
8, 9, 10 and 11. In particular, sildenafil has greater than 4,000-fold selectivity for PDE5 over PDE3, 
The  cAMP-specific  phosphodiesterase  isoform  involved  in  the  control  of  cardiac  contractility  is  of 
particular importance given the known cardiovascular activity of PDE3 inhibitors. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Single  oral  sildenafil  doses  larger  than  30  mg  were  associated  with  increased  plasma  cGMP  levels. 
The pharmacodynamic effects of sildenafil in subjects with ED of broad-spectrum etiology have been 
evaluated in response to visual sexual stimulation and tactile stimulation, following doses of 10, 25, 50 
and 100 mg, using penile plethysmography as an objective measure of penile rigidity (rigidity > 60% 
at  the  base  of  the  penis).  Although  the  number  of  responders  increased  with  dosing,  no  clear  dose 
6/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
   
response relationship was established. Only one study examined time to onset of erection, showing the 
median time to onset of 27 minutes after 50 mg sildenafil oral dose compared to 50 minutes for the 
placebo  group.  In  all  doses,  sildenafil  improved  the  total  duration  of  the  erectile  response  following 
visual sexual stimulation compared to placebo. The duration of response was wide and ranged, from a 
mean duration of 22 minutes for plasma sildenafil concentrations in the range 0-50 and 50-100 ng/ml 
to >30  minutes at concentrations above  100  ng/ml. No correlation was found  between time to onset 
and duration of erections and sildenafil or UK-103,320 plasma concentration. 
Sildenafil also demonstrates affinity for PDE6, which is present in the retinal photoreceptors (rods and 
cones)  and  plays  a  key  role  in  phototransduction.  Except  for  increased  error  scores  in  color 
discrimination  tests  (assessed  by  means  of  Farnsworth-Munsell  100  Hue  test)  reported  for  sildenafil 
100  mg,  one  hour  and  two  hours  post-dose,  no  specific  effects  on  visual  function  were  seen  at  the 
therapeutic dosages. This could be explained by the fact that sildenafil is pharmacologically active on 
human  retinal  PDE6  at  higher  doses  than  those  required  for  pharmacological  activity  on  the  corpus 
cavernosum.  An  increase  in  adverse  reactions  (abnormal  vision,  gastrointestinal  and  cardiovascular) 
was observed following doses of 200 mg sildenafil. 
Mean maximum decreases of 8.4 mmHg in systolic and 5.5 mmHg in diastolic blood pressure, with no 
effect on heart rate or orthostatic effects, were observed after a single 100 mg oral dose of sildenafil. 
After a 50 mg dose, there was a mean maximum decrease of 7.7 mmHg in systolic and 4.5 mmHg in 
diastolic  blood  pressure.  There  was  a  tendency  for  blood  pressure  to  return  to  baseline  values  by  
4 hours post-dose.  
Vascular studies (venous occlusion plethysmography) showed some veno- and arteriodilator effects on 
the peripheral vascular system with no clinically significant changes in cardiac index. Sildenafil has no 
platelet antiaggregatory effect per se at the usual doses. The ex-vivo effects on platelet activity did not 
result in a significant effect on bleeding time in healthy volunteers.  
No  effect  on  sperm  motility,  morphology  or  vitality  at  1.5  and  4  hours  post-dose  was  demonstrated 
(single dose of 100 mg sildenafil). 
No specific studies to investigate the pharmacodynamic effects of sildenafil on the gastrointestinal or 
central nervous systems have been conducted.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption  -  Sildenafil  is  rapidly  absorbed  with  maximal  plasma  concentrations  occurring  about  
0.5-2 hours after oral dosing. Absolute bioavailability is about 40% due to the first-pass metabolism 
(not  due  to  incomplete  absorption).  Simultaneous  intake  of  food  with  sildenafil  causes  a  delay  in 
absorption with a mean delay in Tmax of 60 minutes and a mean reduction in Cmax of 29%.  
Distribution  -  Approximately  96%  of  sildenafil  was  bound  to  plasma  proteins,  but  its  potential  for 
interaction  with  co-administered  drugs  due  to  displacement  is  limited  because  of  its  relatively  high 
volume  of  distribution,  which  is  about  100  l  after  i.v.  administration  of  sildenafil.  Partitioning  of 
sildenafil and its metabolites into erythrocytes was found in vivo. Sildenafil was also distributed into 
the ejaculate (<0.0002% of the total administered dose). 
An increase in AUC and Cmax of sildenafil was observed with an increase in dose after i.v. (20-80 mg) 
and oral administration (proportional increase over the dose range of 25-100 mg). At higher doses, no 
differences were seen in Tmax.  
Metabolism  and  excretion  -  Sildenafil  is  extensively  metabolised  by  hepatic  microsomes,  involving 
two  cytochrome  P450  isoforms  (CYP3A4  as  the  major  route  and  CYP2C9  as  a  minor  route).  
Four  metabolites  were  detected  in  plasma:  an  N-desmethyl-metabolite  (UK-103,320),  a  metabolite 
formed  by  loss  of  a  two  carbon  fragment  from  the  piperazine  ring  (UK-150,564),  an  aliphatic-
hydroxylate metabolite and an unidentified-metabolite. UK-103,320 and UK-150,564 appeared to be 
the  only  metabolites  with  comparable  selectivity  but  weaker  potency  than  the  parent  compound  
(50 and 10%, respectively). Moreover, their plasma concentrations were about 20-40% of those of the 
parent  compound,  and  therefore  a  major  contribution  to  the  pharmacological  effect  in  man  is  not 
expected. 
Sildenafil  is  mainly  cleared  from  the  plasma  non-renally  (clearance  around  41  l/h,  comparable  to 
hepatic  plasma  flow),  with  a  mean  terminal  half-life  of  approximately  4  hours.  No  accumulation  is 
7/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
expected when sildenafil is administered once daily. Sildenafil and its main metabolites have mainly a 
biliary route of excretion (75-80% of radioactivity excreted in faeces). 
this 
inhibitors  of 
isoenzymes  may 
Interactions  -  CYP3A4  is  indicated  as  the  main  isoenzyme  involved  in  sildenafil  metabolism; 
consequently, 
reduce  sildenafil  clearance.  Population 
pharmacokinetics  indicated  a  reduction  in  sildenafil  clearance  when  co-administered  with  CYP3A4 
inhibitors (such as ketoconazole, erythromycin, and cimetidine). Cimetidine (800 mg), a cytochrome 
P450 inhibitor and non-specific CYP3A4 inhibitor, showed interaction resulting in an increase of the 
sildenafil  (50  mg)  plasma  concentrations  of  approximately  56%.  Multiple  dosing  of  erythromycin,  
to steady state (500 mg b.i.d. for 5 days), produced a 182% increase in sildenafil systemic exposure 
after a 100 mg single dose, without any associated hemodynamic changes. Data from clinical trials on 
the incidence of all causality adverse events for subjects on sildenafil and concomitant erythromycin 
showed  no  difference  to  placebo  treatment.  Given  the  reduced  clearance  of  sildenafil  when  co-
administrated with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, a starting dose of sildenafil 25 mg should be considered. 
Coadministration  of  the  HIV  protease  inhibitor  saquinavir,  a  CYP3A4  inhibitor,  at  steady  state 
(1200 mg tid) with sildenafil (100 mg single dose) resulted in a 140 % increase in sildenafil Cmax and a 
210 % increase in sildenafil AUC. Sildenafil had no effect on saquinavir pharmacokinetics. Stronger 
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole and itraconazole would be expected to have greater effects.  
Given the reduced clearance of sildenafil when coadministered with HIV protease inhibitors, a starting 
dose of sildenafil 25mg should be considered. 
Coadministration  of the HIV protease inhibitor ritonavir, which is a highly  potent P450 inhibitor, at 
steady state (500 mg bid) with sildenafil (100 mg single dose) resulted in a 300 % (4-fold) increase in 
sildenafil  Cmax  and  a  1,000  %  (11-fold)  increase  in  sildenafil  plasma  AUC.  At  24  hours,  the  plasma 
levels  of  sildenafil  were  still  approximately  200  ng/ml,  compared  to  approximately  5  ng/ml  when 
sildenafil was dosed alone.  This is consistent with ritonavir’s marked effects on a broad range of P450 
substrates.    Sildenafil  had  no  effect  on  ritonavir  pharmacokinetics.  Based  on  these  pharmacokinetic 
results  co-administration  of  sildenafil  with  ritonavir  is  not  advised,  and  in  any  event  the  maximum 
dose  of  sildenafil  administered  to  a  patient  receiving  ritonavir  should  not  exceed  25  mg  within  
48 hours. 
Sildenafil is a weak inhibitor of the cytochrome P450 isoforms 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4. 
Moreover,  because  the  expected  plasma  concentrations  of  sildenafil  are  less  than  1  microM  after 
recommended  doses,  it  is  unlikely  that  sildenafil  (or  the  metabolite  UK-103.320)  will  be  associated 
with  these  isoenzyme  based  drug  interactions.  No  pharmacokinetic  interaction  with  tolbutamide  
(250 mg) and no effect on the dynamic properties of warfarin (40 mg), both of which are metabolised 
by  CYP2C9,  were  demonstrated  when  co-administered  with  sildenafil  (50  mg).  No  significant 
interactions  were  observed  when  sildenafil  (50  mg)  was  co-administered  with  acetyl  salicylic  acid 
(100  mg  or  150  mg),  antacid  (magnesium  hydroxide/aluminium  hydroxide),  and  alcohol  
(mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 80 mg/dl).  
There are no data on the interaction of sildenafil with non-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitors such 
as theophylline or dipyridamole. The company has committed itself, within the agreed timeframe, to 
conduct  in  vitro  interaction  studies  with  these  medicinal  products.  Ex-vivo  studies  with  human 
platelets indicated that sildenafil potentiates the antiaggregatory effects of sodium nitroprusside; these 
effects  did  not  result  in  a  significant  effect  on  bleeding  time  in  healthy  volunteers.  However,  since 
there is no safety information on the administration of sildenafil to patients with bleeding disorders or 
active peptic ulceration, sildenafil should therefore be administered to these patients only after careful 
benefit-risk assessment. 
Pooling  adverse  event  data  for  patients  on  the  following  concomitant  antihypertensive  medications: 
diuretics,  beta-blockers,  ACE  inhibitors,  angiotensin  II  antagonists,  antihypertensive  medicinal 
products  (vasodilator  and  centrally-acting),  adrenergic  neurone  blockers,  calcium  channel  blockers 
and  alpha-adrenoreceptor  blockers,  showed  no  difference  in  the  side  effect  profile  in  patients  taking 
sildenafil  compared  to  placebo  treatment.  In  a  specific  interaction  study,  where  sildenafil  (100  mg) 
was  co-administered  with  amlodipine  in  hypertensive  patients,  there  was  an  additional  reduction  in 
supine  systolic  blood  pressure  of  8  mmHg  and  the  corresponding  additional  reduction  in  supine 
diastolic  blood  pressure  of  7  mmHg.  These  additional  blood  pressure  reductions  were  of  a  similar 
magnitude to those seen when sildenafil was administered alone to healthy volunteers. 
8/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Sildenafil  potentiated  the  hypotensive  effects  of  sublingual  and  intravenous  glyceryl  trinitrate; 
therefore its concomitant administration with  nitric oxide donors (such  as amyl nitrite) or nitrates in 
any form has been contraindicated in the SPC. 
Special  populations  –  Although  only  a  small  amount  (<4%  of  dose)  of  unchanged  parent  drug  is 
excreted  renally,  AUC  and  Cmax  of  sildenafil  (50  mg)  increased  significantly  by  100%  and  88%, 
respectively, in subjects with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) compared to 
healthy subjects. In addition, the pharmacokinetics of the active N-desmethyl metabolite were affected 
by  severe  renal  dysfunction,  resulting  in  a  significant  increases  in  AUC  and  Cmax  of  about  79%  and 
200% respectively. A greater decrease in blood pressure was detected in the renally impaired subjects 
compared  to  healthy  subjects.  In  the  clinical  studies  subjects  with  a  history  of  major  renal 
abnormalities were excluded. In subjects with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
=30-80  ml/min),  the  mean  AUC  and  Cmax  of  the  N-desmethyl  metabolite  increased  about  126%  and 
73% respectively compared to healthy subjects. However, due to high inter-subject variability, these 
differences  were not  statistically significant. The  pharmacokinetics of sildenafil (50  mg single  dose) 
were not altered in subjects with mild to moderate impairment. The dosing recommendation has been 
addressed in the SPC. 
After a single dose of 50 mg sildenafil in subjects with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh 
A  and  B),  the  systemic  exposure  (AUC)  of  sildenafil  increased  significantly,  by  about  80%.  
A  decrease  in  blood  pressure  was  detected.  The  pharmacokinetics  and  safety  of  sildenafil  have  not 
been  investigated  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic  dysfunction:  this  population  is  therefore 
contraindicated.  
Healthy elderly subjects (65-81 years) showed a statistically significant increase in AUC of sildenafil 
and  the  N-desmethyl  metabolite  of  about  90%  compared  to  young  healthy  subjects  (18-45  years).  
The increase in free sildenafil plasma concentration was approximately 40%. A first dose of sildenafil 
25  mg  should  be  used  in  the  elderly.  However,  the  Phase  II/III  trials  showed  that  the  incidence  of 
adverse events did not increase with age.  
Sildenafil is not indicated for children under 18 years. Sildenafil is not indicated for use by women.  
Population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  carried  out  on  five  Phase  III  studies  showed  similar  results  to 
those observed in individual pharmacokinetic studies, e.g. alteration of sildenafil absorption rate with 
food, reduced sildenafil clearance with hepatic status, with increasing age and with CYP3A4 inhibitors 
(such as ketoconazole, erythromycin, cimetidine). No effect was found on sildenafil pharmacokinetics 
with  concomitant  administration  of  CYP2C9  inhibitors  (such  as  tolbutamide,  warfarin,  phenytoin), 
CYP2D6 inhibitors (such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants), thiazide 
and related diuretics, loop and potassium sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, 
calcium channel blockers, beta-adrenoreceptor antagonists or inducers of CYP 450 metabolism (such 
as rifampicin, barbiturates). In addition, no correlation was found between alcohol intake or smoking 
status and sildenafil pharmacokinetics.  
Efficacy 
Four main therapeutic efficacy studies* of double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, fixed dose 
(148-102,  148-364)  and  flexible  dose  design  (148-103,  148-363)  were  performed  to  investigate  the 
efficacy  of  sildenafil  in  the  claimed  indication  (see  Table  1  below).  In  addition,  among  other 
supportive  studies,  two**  were  conducted  in  spinal  cord  injury  (148-367,  crossover  design)  and 
diabetic  patients  (148-104,  parallel  group),  also  titrating  doses.  Overall,  efficacy  data  (main  and 
supportive  studies)  were  evaluated  from  more  than  3000  patients  receiving  sildenafil  (aged  19-87).  
No  comparison  with  locally  injected  vasodilators  was  investigated,  as  this  mode  of  administration 
precluded relevant blinded comparison. 
9/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Studies supporting the efficacy claims. 
Study 148- 
102* 
364* 
103* 
363* 
104** 
367** 
Design 
Phase III, DB, PC, 
parallel, fixed 
Phase III, DB, PC, 
parallel, fixed 
Phase III, DB, PC, 
parallel, flexible 
Phase III, DB, PC, 
parallel, flexible 
DB, PC, parallel, 
flexible 
DB, PC, 2-
crossover,  
flexible 
Aetiology 
Broad-spectrum 
Broad-spectrum 
Broad-spectrum 
Broad-spectrum 
Diabetes 
Spinal cord injury 
Sildenafil (mg)  Subject number 
25, 50, 100 
placebo 
25, 50, 100 
placebo 
25-100++ 
placebo 
25-100++ 
placebo 
25-100++ 
placebo 
25-100++ 
placebo 
102, 107, 107 
216 
128, 132, 127 
127 
163 
166 
159 
156 
136 
132 
175 
174 
Duration 
24 weeks 
12 weeks 
12 weeks 
26 weeks 
12 weeks 
6 weeks/ 
period 
DB: double-blind; PC: placebo controlled. 
Patient population – Male subjects with a primary clinical diagnosis of erectile dysfunction of more 
than  6  months  duration  were  included  (psychogenic,  organic  or  mixed  aetiology).  The  following 
patient  groups  were  represented:  elderly  (21%),  patients  with  hypertension  (24%),  diabetes  mellitus 
(16%),  ischaemic  heart  disease  and  other  cardiovascular  diseases  (14%),  hyperlipidaemia  (14%), 
spinal  cord  injury  (6%),  depression  (5%),  transurethral  resection  of  the  prostate  (5%),  radical 
prostatectomy (4%). The following groups were not well represented or excluded from clinical trials: 
patients  with  pelvic  surgery,  patients  post-radiotherapy,  patients  with  severe  renal  or  hepatic 
impairment and patients with certain cardiovascular conditions (i.e. a history of stroke or myocardial 
infarction  within  the  previous  six  months  or  cardiac  failure,  unstable  angina  or  life-threatening 
arrythmias  within  the  previous  six  months).  Other  excluded  patient  populations  included  those  on 
certain  concomitant  therapies  (i.e.  trazodone,  testosterone  or  any  other  therapies  to  treat  ED)  and 
patients with known raised prolactin or low free testosterone levels, hypotension (i.e. a resting sitting 
BP <90/50 mmHg), retinitis pigmentosa (a minority of these patients have genetic disorders of retinal 
phosphodiesterases),  untreated  diabetic  proliferative  retinopathy,  active  peptic  ulcer  disease,  and 
unstable medical conditions. More than 90% subjects were Caucasian. 
Efficacy  parameters  –  It  has  been  assumed  that  sexual  function  is  best  assessed  in  a  natural  (home) 
setting  with  patient  self-reporting  by  means  of  questionnaires,  which  is  preferable  to  a  laboratory 
setting  with  objective  measures  such  as  the  RigiScan  device.  The  International  Index  of  Erectile 
Function  (IIEF)  was  developed  as  a  brief,  reliable  and  validated  measure  of  male  sexual  function, 
which  contains  15  questions  allocated  to  one  of  five  domains  of  sexual  function  (erectile  function, 
orgasmic  function,  sexual  desire,  intercourse  and  overall  satisfaction);  each  question  could  be 
answered on a 5 or 6-point scale. The primary efficacy endpoints were responses to Questions 3 and 4 
of this IIEF questionnaire, which assessed ‘how often the subject was able to penetrate his partner’ and 
‘how  often  the  subject  was  able  to  maintain  the  erection  after  penetration’.  The  secondary  efficacy 
endpoints  were  based  on  responses  to  the  remaining  IIEF  questions,  the  partner  questionnaire,  the 
overall  efficacy  assessment,  the  event  log  of  erectile  function,  quality  of  life  questionnaire,  and 
discontinuation due to lack of efficacy and others. Efficacy evaluation was based on the intent to treat 
(ITT) population. 
Primary analysis 
Main studies – The efficacy of sildenafil 25, 50 and 100 mg was compared to placebo in the two fixed 
dose studies  (studies  102,  364), while in the two  placebo flexible dose  studies, subjects  started  on a 
dose of 50 mg (study 103) or 25 mg (study 363) and were allowed to adjust the dose up or down based 
on efficacy and toleration. Subjects take the dosage as required approximately one hour prior to sexual 
activity. 
The  ITT  analysis  (fixed  dose  studies)  indicated  superiority  of  sildenafil  over  placebo  at  all  doses  in 
terms of the main endpoints (Table 2). Sildenafil groups showed mean values at 3 months of about ‘3’ 
with 25 mg (‘sometimes, about half the time’), between ‘3’ and ‘4’ with 50 mg, and almost ‘4’ with 
10/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 mg (‘most times, much more than half the time’) for questions 3 and 4. The response at 6 months 
was similar to the response observed at 3 months (study 102). 
In  both  flexible  dose  studies,  the  ITT  analyses  at  week  12  demonstrated  a  statistically  significant 
treatment  effect  of  sildenafil.  A  greater  proportion  of  sildenafil  treated  subjects  with  initial  low 
baseline responses (51% and 55% in studies 363 and 103, respectively) were able to regularly achieve 
and  maintain  erections  when  compared  with  placebo  (9%  and  6%  in  studies  363  and  103, 
respectively). 
Analysis  in  all  four  studies  of  scores  obtained  on  both  IIEF  questions  resulted  in  a  statistically 
significant treatment effect, with a dose-related increase in the mean response scores in subjects taking 
sildenafil (Table 2). 
Similar  results  in  direction  and  magnitude  were  also  observed  in  supportive  studies  conducted  in 
subjects with ED of broad spectrum aetiology. 
Table 2 - Mean scores for subjects in main studies responding to questions 3 and 4 at week 12: 
ITT week 12  Q.3: ‘how often the subject was able to 
Q.  4:  ‘how  often  the  subject  was  able  to 
maintain the erection after penetration’ 
penetrate his partner’ 
N 
Overall 
baseline 
mean 
LS 
mean 
Overall 
N 
treatment 
p-value 
Overall 
baseline 
mean 
LS 
mean 
Overall 
Treatment 
p-value 
Flexible dose studies 
Study 103 
placebo 
Sildenafil+ 
(25-100 mg) 
Study 363 
placebo 
Sildenafil+ 
(25-100 mg) 
138 
138 
118 
136 
Fixed dose studies 
2.03 
<0.0001 
1.52 
<0.0001 
2.28 
3.87 
138 
137 
1.79 
3.63 
1.89 
<0.0001 
1.63 
<0.0001 
2.16 
3.54 
116 
136 
2.07 
3.53 
Study 102 
1.98 
<0.0001 
1.58 
<0.0001 
placebo 
25 mg 
50 mg 
100 mg 
Study 364 
placebo 
25 mg 
50 mg 
190 
95 
100 
96 
117 
121 
123 
2.20 
2.31 
3.27+ 
3.65+ 
3.99+ 
2.17 
3.18+ 
3.65+ 
189 
95 
100 
96 
<0.0001 
1.83 
115 
119 
122 
2.20 
3.15+ 
3.51+ 
3.94+ 
1.96 
2.99+ 
3.40+ 
<0.0001 
120 
3.79+ 
100 mg 
Statistical test used: ANCOVA; LS = Least Squares (adjusted) mean 
Scores  0-5  with  1  =  almost  never/never  and  5  =  almost  always/  always,  0  =  did  not  attempt  sexual 
intercourse 
*  Indicates  last  observation  up  to  99  days;  +  Sildenafil  versus  placebo  for  Questions  3  and  4, 
p<0.0001. 
3.63+ 
118 
11/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary  analysis  -  In  all  four  of  the  main  studies,  a  statistically  significant  treatment  effect 
(p<0.0001) was shown for sildenafil treated subjects in 4 domains of the IIEF questionnaire (erectile 
and orgasmic function, intercourse and overall satisfaction). 
The Global Assessment  Question (GAQ) was asked after 12 weeks treatment. Overall, a statistically 
significant  number  of  subjects  reported  an  improvement  in  their  erections  after  receiving  sildenafil 
compared to those receiving placebo.  
An Event Log (a record of successful attempts at sexual intercourse) was to be completed each time 
study  medication  was  taken  or  the  subjects  engaged  in  sexual  activity.  At  the  recommended  doses 
(excluding  study  104  in  diabetics),  62-73%  of  the  attempts  at  intercourse  were  successful  in  the 
various  sildenafil  groups  compared  to  22-25%  of  attempts  in  the  placebo  group.  A  dose  response 
relationship was not obvious. Overall there was no benefit of 200 mg over 100 mg of sildenafil. 
A  Partner  Questionnaire  asking  similar  questions  to  the  primary  endpoints  indicated  homogeneous 
results in magnitude and direction in favor of subjects treated with sildenafil. 
Quality  of  Life  assessment  showed  positive  effects  for  sildenafil  regarding  the  relationship  with 
partner, emotional control, general health, the impact of emotional problems on daily functioning, and 
aspects of emotional distress associated with having an erectile problem. 
In  the  main  fixed  dose  studies,  more  subjects  allocated  to  placebo  treatment  experienced  a  lack  of 
efficacy  compared  to  the  sildenafil  treated  group.  Discontinuation  rate  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  was 
5.0%  for  subjects  receiving  placebo  vs.  2.6%  for  sildenafil  treated  subjects  on  25  mg,  0.8%  for 
subjects on 50 mg and 0% for subjects on 100 mg. 
Dose response - Overall, a dose-related increase in  mean response scores was observed in the fixed 
dose  studies  (studies  101/101B,  102,  106,  361  and  364),  between  25  mg  and  100  mg  sildenafil, 
reaching a plateau at 100 mg. Similar response scores were shown between subjects taking the 100 mg 
and 200 mg doses. In the main flexible dose studies, 23% (starting dose of 50 mg) and 28% (starting 
dose of 25 mg) remained at their first level of dose. When the starting dose was 50 mg (study 103), at 
the end of the trial 74% of patients were taking 100 mg and only 2% of patients had decreased their 
dose  from  50  mg  to  25  mg  due  to  adverse  events.  Where  the  starting  dose  was  25  mg  (study  363),  
44% of patients were taking 100 mg and 28% were taking 50 mg at the end of the trial. 
Long-term  efficacy  -  Double-blind  long-term  efficacy  evaluated  up  to  24  weeks  (studies  102, 
101/101B, 356) and 26 weeks (study 363) indicated that the responses reached at an early stage were 
maintained until the end of the follow-up. At the end of the initial open treatment period in study 356 
(16  weeks  treatment),  96%  of  subjects  (207  of  216)  wanted  to  continue  treatment  and  93%  (200  of 
216)  felt  an  improvement  in  their  erections.  The  majority  of  subjects  randomised  in  the  8-week 
follow-up  phase  to  double-blind  placebo,  reported  that  their  erections  were  worse  than  those  when 
they  received  open  sildenafil.  Long-term  efficacy  based  on  a  median  therapy  duration  of  358  days 
(study 354A) showed that, of the subjects responding, 22%, 47%, 15% and 16% had a final dose of  
25 mg, 50 mg, 75 mg and 100 mg, respectively. Overall 91% of subjects in open label studies wanted 
to continue treatment.  
Factors influencing response - Analysis of covariance in the main studies has been used to evaluate 
the effect of other possible explanatory variables on the primary endpoint measurements. 
There  was  no  clear-cut  consistent  age  effect,  but  a  trend  toward  slightly  lower  scores  on  the  IIEF 
questions  3  and  4  occurred  with  subjects  >  65  years  of  age.  Duration  of  ED  at  baseline  and  other 
clinically  relevant  variables  (such  as  depression,  cardiovascular  disease,  and  hypertension)  did  not 
have any apparent effect on therapeutic response. However, the severity of ED at baseline was found 
to have a statistically significant effect on response to IIEF questions 3 and 4.  
In the main studies, etiology did not show evidence of interaction in any primary endpoint analyses, 
but  did  have  a  statistically  significant  effect  on  the  global  assessment  of  improvement  in  erections. 
The  highest  response  for  improvement  in  erections  was  observed  in  subjects  with  psychogenic  ED, 
followed  by  mixed  etiology  and  organic  ED.  Patients  with  radical  prostatectomy  showed  a  lower  
(but still effective) response (IIEF Questions 3 and 4) to sildenafil than non-prostatectomy patients. 
There  was  no  evidence  of  any  interaction  with  treatment  based  on  a  subgroup  analysis  with  343 
diabetic subjects treated with sildenafil and 232 treated with placebo. Although response scores were 
12/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
generally lower in diabetic subjects compared to the broad-spectrum population (mean score of 2.90 
and 2.71 for questions 3 and 4 in diabetic subjects, respectively, versus a mean score of 3.58 and 3.46 
in  non-diabetic  subjects),  sildenafil  was  shown  to  be  effective.  These  data  are  consistent  with  the 
results of a specific study evaluating the effect of sildenafil during 12 weeks in diabetic patients (study 
104). 
Sildenafil  was  superior  to  placebo  in  primary  and  secondary  endpoints  (study  367)  in  subjects  with 
spinal  cord  injury  of  various  severities,  including  subjects  with  complete  transection  of  the  spinal 
cord. 
Across  all  trials,  the  proportion  of  patients  reporting  improvement  on  sildenafil  were  as  follows: 
psychogenic  erectile  dysfunction  (84%),  mixed  erectile  dysfunction  (77%),  organic  erectile 
dysfunction  (68%),  elderly  (67%),  diabetes  mellitus  (59%),  ischaemic  heart  disease  (69%), 
hypertension  (68%),  trans-urethral  resection  of  prostate  (61%),  radical  prostatectomy  (43%),  spinal 
cord injury (83%), depression (75%).  
Safety 
The  assessment  of  the  safety  of  sildenafil  is  based  on  pooled  data  from  4213  subjects  enrolled  in 
double-blind, placebo controlled Phase II/III clinical studies, including 3003 sildenafil treated subjects 
and 1832 placebo treated patients. In addition, 769 subjects on placebo in placebo-controlled studies 
received sildenafil in open-label extension studies. Among the sildenafil treated group, 1682 subjects 
received a starting dose of 50 mg or greater and 559 subjects had a duration of sildenafil therapy of at 
least one year. In general, 8-9 doses per month were taken during the first months and, from the fifth 
month onward, the frequency of dosage decreased to an average of 3 doses per month. 
As  of  February  1997,  13  deaths  have  occurred  in  the  sildenafil  group  and  2  in  the  placebo  group.  
None  of  them  were  considered  to  be  related  to  treatment,  and  the  death  rate  (per  100  man  years  of 
treatment)  was  comparable  for  sildenafil  and  placebo  groups.  In  the  overall  safety  database,  no 
differences  were  observed  in  the  rate  of  all  cardiovascular  serious  adverse  events  and  the  rate  of 
myocardial infarctions adjusted to 100 man years of treatment. An additional overview of deaths from 
the clinical trial's database as of 1 May 1998 was provided, reporting overall 22 deaths on sildenafil 
treated group (several days after last dose) and 2 deaths on placebo. Similar death rates per 100 man 
years  were  observed  (0.45  on  sildenafil,  0.57  on  placebo).  None  of  the  death  were  considered  to  be 
related  to  sildenafil.  Post  marketing,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  has  provided  updated 
information  on  the  incidence  of  myocardial  infarction  and  of  all  cause  mortality  from  their  safety 
database, including data from ongoing or completed clinical trials. On the basis of the data provided, 
the overall safety of sildenafil was considered acceptable. 
In the placebo controlled  phase  II/III  studies, the overall frequency of  discontinuation was 8.5% for 
sildenafil treated subjects and 13.9% for placebo treated subjects (Table 3). Premature discontinuation 
due to  adverse events related to study drug was higher in the sildenafil treated population (1.4% vs. 
0.7%),  but  pooling  data  of  adverse  events  (related  and  not  related  to  study  drug)  demonstrated 
comparable results (2.6% vs. 2.3%).  
The rate of discontinuation from the study due to cardiovascular adverse events in placebo-controlled 
studies  was  low  for  both  sildenafil  (all  causality:  0.9%,  treatment-related:  0.3%)  and  placebo  
(all causality: 0.9%, treatment-related: 0.2%) groups. The rate of discontinuation from the study due to 
body as a whole adverse events was 1.7% for sildenafil and 0.8% for placebo. Most cases of abnormal 
vision reported did not lead to discontinuation. Discontinuation due to gastrointestinal adverse events 
was  more  frequently  observed  in  sildenafil  group  (0.8%)  compared  to  placebo  group  (0.4%). 
Discontinuation due to laboratory abnormalities did not increase with increasing dose of sildenafil. 
13/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Summary of discontinuation from study in Phase II/III placebo-controlled Studies. 
Number (%) of Subjects 
Number (%) of Subjects 
Total treated 
Discontinued 
Related to study drug 
Adverse event 
Laboratory abnormality 
Lack of efficacy 
Not related to study drug * 
Adverse event 
Laboratory abnormality 
Special Safety test 
Sildenafil 
2722 
230 (8.5) 
83 (3.1) 
37 (1.4) 
4 (0.2) 
42 (1.5) 
147 (5.4) 
32 (1.2) 
8 (0.3) 
1 (0.0) 
Placebo 
1552 
215 (13.9) 
101 (6.5) 
11 (0.7) 
5 (0.3) 
85 (5.5) 
114 (7.4) 
25 (1.6) 
6 (0.4) 
0 
Subject died 
*Reasons for discontinuation not related to study drug also include: does not meet randomization  
criteria, lost to follow-up, protocol violation, withdrawn consent, and others. 
3 (0.1) 
0 
An analysis of the overall number of adverse events as well as treatment related adverse reactions on 
the recommended doses (25-100 mg) resulting from placebo controlled studies (n=2722 for sildenafil, 
n=1552  for  placebo),  showed  a  higher  overall  incidence  rate  in  subjects  treated  with  sildenafil 
compared  with  placebo.  The  overall  incidence  for  all  causality  adverse  events  in  placebo  controlled 
studies was 64.9% for sildenafil and 42.7% for placebo. Treatment-related adverse events occurred in 
37.2%  of  sildenafil  treated  patients  and  9.6%  placebo  treated  patients.  Headache,  vasodilation 
(flushing), dyspepsia, rhinitis and abnormal vision were the most frequently encountered side effects. 
The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-related  cardiovascular  adverse  events  was  higher  in  sildenafil 
treated subjects (17%; 464/2722) than in subjects receiving placebo (4.8%; 75/1552), the majority of 
which  were  due  to  vasodilatation.  Headache  and  vasodilatation  (flushing)  were  responsible  for  the 
majority  of  all  adverse  events  reported  in  sildenafil-treated  subjects,  and  the  majority  of  these 
complaints  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  All  causality  incidences  of  adverse  events  associated 
with changes in blood pressure were comparable for sildenafil and placebo (syncope 0.1% vs. 0.3%, 
hypotension  0.3%  vs.  0.1%,  dizziness  2.7%  vs.  1.4%  and  postural  hypotension  0.1%  vs.  0.1%).  
There  were  no  differences  in  incidence  of  myocardial  infarction  or  other  serious  adverse  events 
between  groups.  Patients  with  recent  (<6  months)  myocardial  infarction,  unstable  angina,  cardiac 
failure or life threatening arrhythmia were excluded from clinical trials.  
As was the case in the initial clinical trials, serious cardiac and vascular events including myocardial 
infarction,  angina  pectoris  intermediate  syndrome,  sudden  cardiac  deaths,  ventricular  arrhythmias, 
cerebrovascular  haemorrhage,  transient  ischemic  attack,  hypertension  and  hypotension,  occurring  in 
temporal  association  with  the  use  of  Viagra  have  been  reported  post  marketing.  Most  but  not  all 
occurred in patients with pre-existing cardiovascular risk factors. Many events were reported to occur 
during  or  shortly  after  sexual  intercourse,  and  a  few  were  reported  to  occur  shortly  after  the  use  of 
Viagra without sexual activity. Although in some cases there was a temporal association with the use 
of  Viagra  and  sexual  intercourse,  it  is  not  possible  to  determine  whether  the  events  were  due  to 
underlying disease or risk factors, sexual intercourse, Viagra, or to other unknown factors. 
The overall incidence of abnormal vision (in all placebo-controlled studies) was 6.5% versus 0.4% for 
sildenafil  and  placebo  respectively.  Abnormal  vision  was  commonly  described  as  a  transient  color 
tinge to vision, an increased perception of light or blurred vision. Most cases of abnormal vision were 
considered as mild or moderate in severity, and did not lead to discontinuation. Patients with untreated 
proliferative  diabetic  retinopathy  or  macular  degeneration  have  not  been  included  in  the  clinical 
studies in significant numbers. However, diabetic patients in placebo-controlled studies did not show a 
higher  frequency  of  abnormal  vision  than  non-diabetic  patients  (6.0%  versus  6.6%,  respectively). 
14/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further studies as part of post-marketing surveillance program have been requested to investigate the 
consequences of long-term therapy.  
The  overall  incidence  of  gastrointestinal  adverse  events  in  all  placebo  controlled  studies  was  19.3% 
for  sildenafil  and  7.3%  for  placebo.  The  overall  incidence  increased  with  dose  and  the  incidence 
decreased  as  duration  of  treatment  increased.  Dyspepsia  of  mild  or  moderate  severity  was  the  main 
gastrointestinal  adverse  event  reported  and  is  probably  related  to  the  pharmacological  action  of 
sildenafil. 
Pooled safety data indicated that myalgia occurred more frequently in subjects treated with sildenafil 
than  placebo  (2.1%  vs.  0.8%).  Additional  laboratory  tests  did  not  show  any  significant  findings. 
Several cases reported the pain to be severe (5 out of 49 in sildenafil group and 2 out 12 in placebo 
group). The incidence of myalgia increased as the dose of sildenafil was increased from 50 to 100 mg, 
but did not increase further when the dose was increased to 200 mg. 
No significant differences in the overall incidence of adverse events for subjects treated with sildenafil 
with  or  without  concomitant  therapies  (anti-anginal,  antihypertensive,  antidepressant  and  CYP  2C9 
inhibiting agents) were observed. Nevertheless, in sildenafil subjects treated with CYP 3A4 inhibiting 
medication,  the  overall  incidence  of  adverse  events  was  higher  than  in  subjects  without  
co-administration  (76.0%  vs.  62.7%,  respectively)  and  this  has  been  addressed  in  the  SPC.  No 
apparent  age  related  differences  in  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  and  the  rate  of  discontinuations 
from the studies were observed.  
Incidence  of  clinically  significant laboratory  changes  and  median  changes  in  laboratory  parameters, 
median changes of vital signs, and ECG changes have been assessed, and were in general similar for 
subjects  receiving  sildenafil  and  in  those  receiving  placebo.  However,  a  higher  incidence  of 
hemoglobinuria (16.7% for sildenafil vs. 6.8% for placebo), the majority of which were judged to be 
spurious laboratory data, and creatine kinase (2.3% vs. 1.2% respectively) were seen. 
There were no reports of priapism in clinical trials. In postmarketing surveillance, priapism has been 
reported. 
5. 
Conclusion and risk/benefit assessment 
Quality  
The  quality  of  sildenafil  film-coated  tablets,  as  demonstrated  in  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical 
documentation, is acceptable. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The preclinical pharmacodynamic studies have shown that sildenafil has a high potency and selectivity 
for PDE5 relative to other known phosphodiesterases. There is a 10-fold selectivity over PDE6 which 
is  involved  in  the  phototransduction  pathway  in  the  retina.  Sildenafil  can  potentiate  the  rise  in 
intracavernosal  pressure  induced  by  stimulation  via  smooth  muscle  relaxation.  Pharmaco-  and 
toxicokinetics were also adequately studied. The main toxicity findings are well characterised and do 
not raise concern for human safety. 
Efficacy 
Based on the pharmacodynamic, safety and tolerability results, it was decided to study doses of 25, 50 
and 100 mg in the clinical studies. The clinical efficacy of sildenafil was well established with regard 
to  attaining  and  maintaining  erections  sufficient  for  sexual  intercourse  in  male  subjects  in  a  broad 
spectrum  of  etiology  over  a  3  months  follow-up  period,  including  diabetes  and  spinal  cord  injury.  
In order for sildenafil to be effective, sexual stimulation is required. In dose ranging from 25-100 mg a 
statistically  significant  improved  response  with  sildenafil  was  observed  compared  to  placebo 
treatment.  A  dose  related  increase  in  response  was  observed  up  to  100  mg.  However,  there  was  no 
improvement in efficacy with  increasing  dose  to 200  mg  but the incidence  of adverse reactions was 
increased. In general, the clinical trials support the starting dose of 50 mg sildenafil with the option to 
increase  to  100  mg  or  decrease  to  25  mg.  All  secondary  endpoints  corroborated  the  findings  of  the 
primary  endpoints.  Substantially  more  subjects  in  the  main  fixed  dose  studies  allocated  to  placebo 
15/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment discontinued due to lack of efficacy, and the discontinuation rate (due to lack of efficacy) in 
the sildenafil group decreased as the dose of sildenafil increased.  
Safety 
An analysis of the overall number of adverse events as well as treatment related adverse reactions on 
the recommended doses (25-100 mg) showed a higher overall incidence rate in subjects treated with 
sildenafil compared with placebo. Headache, flushing, dyspepsia, nasal congestion and altered vision 
are  the  most  frequently  encountered  side  effects.  The  majority  of  the  reported  adverse  events  were 
mild to moderate in severity. Premature discontinuation due to study drug related adverse events was 
comparable  for  the  sildenafil  and  placebo  group.  The  incidence  of  adverse  events  increased  with 
increasing dose and decreased as duration of treatment increased. No differences were observed in the 
overall  safety  database  for  mortality,  all  serious  cardiovascular  adverse  events,  and  myocardial 
infarction (rate adjusted to 100 man years of treatment). On the basis of the data provided, the overall 
safety profile of sildenafil is considered acceptable. The safety concerns with the use of sildenafil have 
been  addressed  in  the  SPC  with  the  inclusion  of  appropriate  warnings,  precautions,  and  contra-
indications.  In  addition,  the  company  accepted  to  update  the  safety  database  frequently  so  as  to 
incorporate relevant information on the use of the drug in clinical practice on an ongoing basis as the 
medicinal product is released in different countries, and also to perform prescription event monitoring 
(PEM) studies once it is released in the EU. Updated information from the Marketing Authorisation 
Holder including data from ongoing and completed clinical trials has been submitted. As was the case 
in the initial clinical trials, some serious cardiovascular events were reported post marketing, occurring 
mostly  in  patients  with  pre-existing  cardiovascular  risk  factors.  Although  in  some  cases  there  was  a 
temporal  association  with  the  use  of  Viagra  and  sexual  intercourse,  it  is  not  possible  to  determine 
whether  the  events  were  due  to  underlying  disease  or  risk  factors,  sexual  intercourse,  Viagra,  or  to 
other unknown factors. 
Risk/benefit assessment 
The  relative  benefit/risk  ratio  of  sildenafil  in  the  treatment  of  ED  is    favourable.  No  comparative 
studies with locally active agents were performed for ethical and methodological reasons. The clinical 
efficacy of sildenafil was well established with regard to attaining and maintaining erection sufficient 
for satisfactory sexual performance in male subjects in a broad spectrum of etiology over a 3 months 
follow-up  period,  including  patients  with  diabetes  and  spinal  cord  injury.  In  dose  ranges  from  
25-100  mg,  a  significantly  improved  response  with  sildenafil  was  observed  compared  to  placebo 
treatment. 
Since sildenafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, its co-administration with 
nitric oxide donors (such as amyl nitrite) or nitrates in any form is therefore contra-indicated. Several 
special  patient  groups,  those  excluded  from  the  clinical  studies  (severe  hepatic  impairment, 
hypotension  (blood  pressure  <90/50  mmHg),  recent  history  of  stroke  or  myocardial  infarction  and 
known  hereditary  degenerative  retinal  disorders  such  as  retinitis  pigmentosa)  and  those  for  whom 
sexual  activity  is  inadvisable  (e.g.  patients  with  severe  cardiovascular  disorders  such  as  unstable 
angina or severe cardiac failure) have been contra-indicated.  
The  proposed  starting  dose  of  25  mg  sildenafil    should  be  considered  for  those  with  severe  renal 
impairment,  hepatic  impairment  and  those  taking  concomitant  CYP3A4  inhibitors  including  HIV 
protease  inhibitors,  since  sildenafil  clearance  is  reduced  in  these  populations.  Coadministration  of 
sildenafil  and  ritonavir  is  not  advised,  but  if  considered  necessary,  a  maximum  sildenafil  dose  of  
25 mg once every 48 hours should not be exceeded.   
In  order  to  minimise  the  potential  for  developing  postural  hypotension,  patients  should  be  stable  on 
alpha-blocker  therapy  prior  to  initiating  sildenafil  treatment.  In  addition,  initiation  of  sildenafil  at  a 
dose of 25 mg should be considered. 
Questions were raised with regard to the visual disturbances caused by sildenafil. The SPC includes an 
appropriate contraindication in the appropriate subgroups to ensure visual safety. 
16/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The legal status was considered and it was agreed not to restrict the prescription status. Clarification 
was  requested  from  the  company  on  the  usage/marketing  surveillance  of  sildenafil  (e.g.  educational 
training materials for the prescriber). 
Taking into consideration the data provided, the overall safety issues and the benefit to risk balance, as 
well as the commitments to be undertaken by the company, the CPMP considered the benefit to risk 
assessment positive and recommended the granting of a Marketing Authorisation for all strengths and 
presentations  of  this  medicinal  product.  The  product  is  authorised  for  the  indication  ‘treatment  of 
erectile  dysfunction,  which  is  the  inability  to  achieve  or  maintain  a  penile  erection  sufficient  for 
satisfactory sexual performance’. 
Upon the 5-year renewal assessment (July 2003), the CHMP concluded that the safety and the efficacy 
of  this  medicinal  product  continued  to  be  adequately  and  sufficiently  demonstrated  and  therefore 
considered  by  consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  VIAGRA  continues  to  be  favourable for the 
treatment of men with erectile dysfunction. 
17/17 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
