21 February 2013 
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Viagra 
International non-proprietary name: sildenafil 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000202/X/0070 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.1. Introduction ..................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................... 6 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal Product ................................................................................. 6 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ............................... 8 
2.2.1. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ........................ 8 
2.2.2. Recommendations for future quality development ................................................. 9 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 9 
2.3.1. Introduction ..................................................................................................... 9 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................... 9 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics .............................................................................................. 9 
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 10 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 11 
2.3.6. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 11 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 11 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 11 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 12 
2.5. Pharmacodynamics ............................................................................................ 17 
2.6. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 17 
2.7. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 18 
2.8. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 18 
2.9. User consultation ............................................................................................... 18 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 18 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 19 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 2/20 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
Atomic Absorption Spectrometry 
Applicant's Part (or Open Part) of a DMF 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Assessment Report 
Active Substance Manufacturer 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Certificate of Suitability of the EP 
Colony Forming Units 
Concerned Member State 
Certificate of Analysis 
Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
Drug Master File = Active Substance Master File 
Decentralised (Application) Procedure 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
Gas Chromatography 
Grams per square meter 
High Density Polyethylene 
High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
In-process control 
Infrared 
International Units 
Karl Fischer 
Low Density Polyethylene 
Letter of Access 
Limit of Detection 
(1) Limit of Quantification, (2) List of Questions 
Marketing Authorisation 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Medicines Evaluation Board  
Mass Spectrometry 
Not detected 
Not less than 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Not more than 
Not tested 
Out of Specifications 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
Polyethylene 
AAS 
AP 
API 
AR 
ASM 
ASMF 
CEP  
CFU 
CMS 
CoA 
CRS 
DMF 
DP 
DSC 
EDQM 
GC 
GSM 
HDPE 
HPLC 
IPC 
IR 
IU 
KF 
LDPE 
LOA 
LOD 
LOQ 
MA 
MAH 
MEB 
MS 
ND 
NLT 
NMR 
NMT 
NT 
OOS 
PDE 
PE 
Ph. Eur.  European Pharmacopoeia 
Patient Information Leaflet 
PIL 
Polypropylene 
PP 
Poly vinyl chloride 
PVC 
Quality Overall Summary 
QOS 
Relative Humidity 
RH 
Reference Member State 
RMS 
Restricted Part (or Closed Part) of a DMF 
RP 
Relative retention time 
RRT 
RSD 
Relative standard deviation 
RVG #  Marketing Authorisation number in NL 
SPC 
TGA 
TLC 
TLR 
UV 
XRD 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
Thin Layer Chromatography 
Theoretic Logarithmic Reduction Factor 
Ultraviolet 
X-Ray Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 3/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Pfizer Ltd submitted on 28 February 2012 an application for an extension of the 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Viagra, 50 mg, 
orodispersible tablets, through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 19 (1) and 
Annex I (point 2 intend d) of the Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008.   
Pfizer Ltd. is already the Marketing Authorisation Holder for Viagra, 25, 50, 100, film-coated 
tablets (EU/1/98/077/002-004, 006-008, 010-012, 013-019). 
The applicant applied for the following indication: “VIAGRA is indicated in adult men with erectile 
dysfunction, which is the inability to achieve or maintain a penile erection sufficient for 
satisfactory sexual performance. In order for VIAGRA to be effective, sexual stimulation is 
required.” 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, and 
a clinical bioequivalence study. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/17/2008 for the following condition: Treatment of Erectile dysfunction on the granting of a class 
waiver. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Information relating to Orphan Market Exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation 
(EC) No 847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity 
with authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal 
product for a condition related to the proposed indication. 
Licensing status 
Viagra has been given a Marketing Authorisation in European Union since 14 September 1998. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 4/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Pieter de Graeff  
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 28 February 2012.  
The procedure started on 21 March 2012. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 6 June 
2012. 
•  During the meeting on 16-19 July 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on  19 July 2012. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 10 
October 2012. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
• 
• 
Questions to all CHMP members on 28 November 2012. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 10-13 December 2012, the CHMP agreed on a List of 
Outstanding Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 18 January 
2013. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 4 February 2013. 
•  During the meeting on 18-21 February 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for an 
extension of the Marketing Authorisation for Viagra, 50 mg, orodispersible tablets on 21 
February 2013.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application concerns an extension to the existing Viagra marketing authorisation. Viagra is 
currently authorised as 25mg, 50 mg and 100 mg immediate release film-coated tablets 
(EU/1/98/077/002-004, 006-008, 010-019). This line extension application concerns the addition 
of a new pharmaceutical form: an orodispersible tablet (ODT) containing 70.225 mg sildenafil 
citrate, corresponding with 50 mg sildenafil. The indication remains the same as for the already 
authorised presentations: 
Viagra is indicated in the treatment of men with erectile dysfunction, which is the inability to 
achieve or maintain a penile erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance. In order for 
Viagra to be effective, sexual stimulation is required.  
Viagra 50 mg orodispersible tablets are proposed to be available in pack sizes of 2, 4, 8 and 12 
orodispersible tablets like the already authorised 50 mg film-coated tablets. This is consistent 
with the dosage regimen and duration of use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 5/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this line extension application the entire product information was brought in line with the latest 
QRD template. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Viagra 50 mg orodispersible tablets are presented as blue diamond-shaped orodispersible tablets 
containing 50 mg sildenafil (as citrate) as active substance. The composition is described in 
section 6.1. of the SmPC. Viagra 50 mg ODT are packaged in aluminium foil blisters in carton of 
2, 4, 8 or 12 tablets.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance  
Viagra 50 mg orodispersible tablets contain the same active substance as the authorised film-
coated tablets; the substance is sourced from the same commercial drug substance site, is 
manufactured with the same manufacturing process and is released in accordance with the same 
approved active substance specifications. The active substance specifications were found to be 
suitable for use in the sildenafil citrate orodispersible tablets. Hence the applicant referred to the 
dossier of the already authorised tablet presentations of Viagra for information on the active 
substance.  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The aim of the applicant was to develop a more convenient dosage form for the existing 50 mg 
film-coated tablet. The applicant selected an orodispersible tablet because it allows to be 
administered without water, after dispersion it can easily be swallowed when placed in the mouth. 
The formulation development of the ODT was driven by the need to satisfy several criteria for 
optimal performance: acceptable taste and mouth feel, timely disintegration, acceptable 
pharmacokinetic profile (i.e. bioequivalent to the commercially available sildenafil citrate 
immediate release tablet 50 mg), satisfactory chemical and physical stability, and suitable for 
conventional manufacturing processes and equipment. 
The physicochemical characteristics of the active substance that can potentially influence the 
performance of the finished product have been discussed. Modelling studies (based on the active 
substance’s physicochemical attributes), predict that the content uniformity of the sildenafil 
citrate 50 mg ODT will not be substantially affected by the particle size of the drug substance 
should the particle size distribution reach the upper limit of the drug substance specification. No 
new degradants were observed during development of sildenafil citrate 50 mg ODT. Sildenafil 
citrate demonstrates high solubility from pH 1 to pH 6. With solubility high across the gastric pH 
range, tablet disintegration is the rate limiting step for bioavailability. During development both 
disintegration and dissolution studies have been performed. The discriminatory nature of the 
disintegration and dissolution tests has been demonstrated. A DOE was performed to study the 
effect of different ODT compositions and the hardness on the disintegration and dissolution  
The excipients in sildenafil citrate 50 mg ODT were selected based upon their suitability for use in 
a conventional manufacturing process as well as their organoleptic properties, and are different 
from the excipients used in the Viagra film-coated tablets. The ODT excipients are generally 
regarded as safe (GRAS) and/or comply with the relevant food flavouring regulations and with the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 6/20 
 
 
 
provisions of Directive 88/388/EEC. The excipients of the ODT are: mannitol, crospovidone, 
polyvinylacetate, povidone (which are the four ingredients of the diluent), croscarmellose sodium 
(disintegrant), microcrystalline cellulose (filler), silica colloidal anhydrous (glidant), sucralose 
(sweetener), indigo carmine aluminium lake E132 (colorant), magnesium stearate (lubricant), 
maltodextrin, dextrin, propylene glycol, glycerol, alpha-tocopherol and flavouring ingredients. The 
latter six ingredients are part of commercially available sweeteners and flavours. Adequate 
specifications were proposed for all excipients and compatibility with all the excipients in the 
formulation has been demonstrated. 
The 50 mg orodispersible tablet contains a commercially available diluent used to provide good 
mouth feel. The composition of the diluent and its specifications have been adequately justified 
and assurance was provided that this has no influence on the final drug product specifications No 
special warnings in the SmPC were considered necessary for any of the excipients. In view of the 
amount in which mannitol is present, mannitol is not considered to have a relevant effect on the 
motility of the gastro-intestinal tract.  
A bioequivalence study was performed showing bioequivalence between the authorised 50 mg 
film-coated tablet formulation and the orodispersible tablet proposed for marketing (see clinical 
part). The products used in the bioequivalence studies are acceptable. The dissolution profiles of 
the batches of test and reference product that were used in the bioequivalence study at three 
different buffers (normally pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8), are comparable. The primary packaging 
proposed is aluminium foil blisters. All packaging components comply, where applicable, with the 
current European Pharmacopoeia. The blisters provide appropriate protection from moisture and 
light and are adequate to support the stability and use of the product.  
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. Magnesium stearate is of 
vegetable origin. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacture of the sildenafil citrate ODT consists of seven steps: three cycles of blending 
and milling, two blending steps, compression and packaging. It is a standard manufacturing 
process and there are no intermediates isolated during the manufacturing process. There are no 
critical steps, and no in-process controls have been proposed. The process has been adequately 
validated on three commercial scale batches manufactured at the commercial site. It was 
demonstrated that the process is capable of producing the finished product of the intended 
quality.  
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for description (visual), 
identification (HPLC and HPLC-DAD), assay (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), 
chromatographic purity (HPLC), disintegration and microbiological purity. Batch analysis results 
from nine commercial scale batches confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and 
indicate that the process is capable and under control. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 7/20 
 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Stability data of three commercial scale batches stored under long term conditions (at 
25ºC/60%RH) for up to 24 months and under accelerated conditions (at 40ºC/75%RH) for up to 
6 months, according to ICH guidelines, have been provided. The batches were manufactured 
according the proposed commercial process and packed in the packaging as proposed for 
marketing. 
The tablets were evaluated for assay, degradation products (by HPLC), appearance, disintegration 
and microbiological activity (total aerobic microbial count and total combined yeasts and molds 
count). The test methods as proposed for release have also been applied in the stability studies 
and demonstrated to be stability indicating. The samples stored under long term and accelerated 
conditions meet the predefined acceptance criteria, no significant trends were seen in any of the 
parameters tested. 
In addition, a photostability study was performed; sildenafil citrate ODT stored in the immediate 
packaging (foil/foil blister) were exposed to photostability conditions outlined in option 2 of the 
ICH Photostability Guideline Q1B. The tablets were tested for appearance, assay, degradation 
products and disintegration. No changes were observed.  
According to the ICH Guideline on photostability testing, also unpacked tablets should be tested 
in photostability studies. However, as the tablets are sensitive to moisture and should be stored 
in the original Aluminium blister packaging to protect from moisture, a photostability test of the 
unpacked tablets is not considered relevant. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life as stated in section 6.3 of the SmPC are 
acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The Viagra 50 mg ODT has been developed to be a more convenient dosage form for the existing 
50 mg film-coated tablets because it can be administered without water. The ODT contains 
different excipients than the film-coated tablets, however none of the excipients is considered a 
concern. The active substance is identical to the one used in the film-coated tablets. Information 
on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion 
that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform clinical performance.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were no unresolved quality issues having no impact on the 
Benefit/Risk ratio of the product.  
2.2.1.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform 
clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory 
way.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 8/20 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Recommendations for future quality development   
Not applicable.   
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Sildenafil  is  an  oral  therapy  for  erectile  dysfunction  (ED).  In  the  natural  setting,  ie,  with  sexual 
stimulation,  it  restores  impaired  erectile  function  by  increasing  blood  flow  to  the  penis.  The 
physiological mechanism responsible for erection of the penis involves the release of nitric oxide 
(NO) in the corpus cavernosum during sexual stimulation. Nitric oxide then activates the enzyme 
guanylate  cyclase,  which  results  in  increased  levels of  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP), 
producing  smooth  muscle  relaxation  in  the  corpus  cavernosum  and  allowing  inflow  of  blood. 
Sildenafil is a potent and selective inhibitor of cGMP specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) in 
the corpus cavernosum, where PDE5 is responsible for degradation of cGMP. Therefore, inhibition 
of  PDE5  by  sildenafil  results  in  increased  corpus  cavernosum  levels  of  cGMP  and  relaxation  of 
penile  corpus  cavernosal  smooth  muscle  occurs  leading  to  the  hemodynamic  event  of  penile 
erection.  
Sildenafil  effect  is  more  potent  on  PDE5  than  on  other  known  phosphodiesterases  (10-fold  for 
PDE6,  >80-fold  for  PDE1,  >700-fold  for  PDE2,  PDE3,  PDE4,  PDE7,  PDE8,  PDE9,  PDE10,  and 
PDE11).  The  approximately  4,000-fold  selectivity  for  PDE5  versus  PDE3  is  important  because 
PDE3  is  involved  in  control  of  cardiac  contractility.  Sildenafil  is  only  about  10-fold  as  potent  for 
PDE5  compared  to  PDE6,  an  enzyme  found  in  the  retina  which  is  involved  in  the 
phototransduction pathway of the retina. This lower selectivity is thought to be the basis for mild 
and  transient  differences  in  colour  discrimination  (blue/green)  reported  clinically  in  some 
subjects. Sildenafil has no effect on visual acuity or contrast sensitivity. 
In  animal  safety  pharmacology  studies  on  the  central  and  peripheral  nervous  systems,  and  on 
cardiovascular, renal, gastrointestinal, and pulmonary function, sildenafil was well-tolerated up to 
doses of 10 mg/kg IV in the mouse and 300 mg/kg orally in the rat. The only effects of sildenafil 
noted were consistent with its known vasodilatory action. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
No  new  pharmacology  studies  have  been  conducted  on  sildenafil  to  support  the  ODT  line 
extension application. An extensive range of pharmacology studies was submitted as part of the 
marketing  authorization  applications  for  sildenafil  film-coated  immediate  release  (IR)  tablet 
(Viagra  EMEA/H/C/202,  Revatio  EMEA/H/C/638),  which  are  sufficient  for  the  present  extension 
application. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Sildenafil is currently available as film-coated tablet in 25, 50 and 100 mg. The applicant is now 
applying for a line extension of an orodispersible tablet which will facilitate administration of the 
drug. The orodispersible tablet contains 50 mg of sildenafil and the excipients identified in Section 
2.2.3.  Bioequivalence  of  the  orodispersible  tablet  with  the  film-coated  tablet  was  only 
investigated in humans and not in the non-clinical species, which is considered acceptable.  
The applicant submitted kinetic data for a 14C labelled polyvinyl acetate/povidone mixture, similar 
in  composition  to  components  of  the  orodispersible  tablet.  Following  single  oral  dose 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 9/20 
 
 
 
administration  of  14C-mixture  of  polyvinyl  acetate/povidone  to  rats  and  dogs,  whole  blood 
radioactivity concentrations resulted below the limit of quantification at all time-points analysed. 
Except for the higher gastrointestinal tract walls concentration, radioactivity measured in kidney 
and  liver  of  male  rats  after  oral  dosing  was  low  (≤0.01%  of  the  administered  dose)  as  it  was 
below  the  limit  of  quantification  in  whole  blood,  spleen,  mesenteric  lymph  nodes  and  muscle. 
Based  on  the  chemical  structure  it  is  unlikely  that  polyvinyl  acetate/povidone  components  will 
undergo  biotransformation.  Therefore,  it  is  acceptable  that  the  applicant  has  not  provided 
metabolism  information  for  polyvinyl  acetate/povidone.  Radioactivity  was  rapidly  and  almost 
completely eliminated via faeces and elimination via urine accounted for <0.1% dose in both rats 
and dogs. In bile duct-cannulated rats 0.01% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in 
bile during 0-48 hours post dose. Overall, the very high proportion of the dose excreted in faeces 
radioactivity 
and  the  small  proportion  excreted  in  bile  and  urine,  together  with  the  whole  blood  and  tissue 
14C-labelled  polyvinyl 
acetate/povidone mixture. Based on the chemical structure it is also unlikely that the mixture of 
indicates  negligible  absorption  of 
concentrations 
polyvinyl  acetate/povidone  will  be  involved  in  drug-drug  interactions  and  also  in  this  case  it  is 
acceptable  that  the  applicant  will  not  provide  with  drug-drug  interaction  data  for  the  polyvinyl 
acetate/povidone components of the orodispersible tablet. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
In  support  of  the  line  extension  application,  a  repeat-dose  toxicity  study  on  a  closely  related 
mixture  of  polyvinyl  acetate/povidone  to  that  employed  in  the  ODT  formulation  and  a  local 
tolerance  study  assessing  the  safety  of  sildenafil  formulated  as  an  ODT  on  the  oral  mucosa  and 
upper gastrointestinal tract were submitted.  
The  purpose  of  the  repeat-dose  study  (study 8230096)  was  to  evaluate  the  toxicity  of  a  closely 
related  mixture  of polyvinyl  acetate/povidone,  when  administered  daily  via  oral  route  for  a  long 
period of time (6 months followed by 4 weeks recovery) in dogs. No test article-related deaths or 
clinical  signs  were  noted.  No  test  article-related  findings  were  observed  in  body  weight,  food 
consumption,  ophthalmology,  or  ECGs.  No  test  article-related  clinical  pathology  findings  were 
observed  at  any  dose  level  at  the  end  of  the  dosing  or  recovery  phase.  No  test  article-related 
differences were noted in mean absolute or relative organ weights in any group at the dosing or 
recovery phase necropsy. No test article-related macroscopic findings were noted in dosing phase 
or recovery animals, and no test article-related microscopic findings were found in dosing phase 
animals.  Due  to  the  lack  of  test  article-related  findings  in  the  dosing  phase,  microscopic 
evaluation  of  recovery  animals  was  limited  to  macroscopic  findings  identified  at  necropsy.  All 
macroscopic  and  microscopic  findings  were  considered  spontaneous  or  incidental  background 
findings unrelated to the test article. In conclusion, Kollidon is well tolerated at high dose in dogs. 
A risk for human use is not to be expected.  
To  study  local  tolerance  a  14-day  repeat-dose  study  in  male  dogs  (study  20017126)  was 
conducted  to  evaluate  the  orodispersible  formulation  on  the  local  oral  mucosal  tissue  and  upper 
gastrointestinal (GI) tract with either one 50 mg of sildenafil ODT or a placebo ODT twice daily. A 
macroscopic  grading  system  similar  to  the  dermal  Draize  scale  was  used  when  examining  the 
mucosa  of  the  mouth  for  erythema  and  edema.  Mild  signs  of  erythema  were  identified  in  very 
limited  cases  and  restricted  to  the  first  week  of  administration.  However,  as  erythema  was  not 
observed  in  any  animal  during  the  second  week  of  dosing,  this  finding  was  considered 
insignificant.  There  were  no  test  article-related  findings  on  clinical  signs,  no  effects  on  body 
weight, body weight gain, or mean food consumption, and no test article-related macroscopic or 
microscopic findings in the mucosal/upper GI tissues collected for histopathological evaluation. In 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 10/20 
 
 
 
conclusion,  no  serious  findings  occurred  on  the  local  oral  mucosal  tissue  and  upper 
gastrointestinal tract during the local tolerance test.  A risk for human use is not to be expected.  
The  sildenafil  citrate  orodispersible  tablet  (ODT)  50  mg  dosage  form  was  evaluated  for  the 
formation  of  new  impurities/degradants  and  no  new  impurities/degradants  have  been  observed 
for  the  ODT  formulation  either  in  registration  stability  testing  in  line  with  ICH  Q1C  and  ICH 
Q1A(R2)  or  forced  degradation  experiments.  All  impurities  are  specified  below  the  identification 
threshold of 0.2%. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  was  submitted.  This  was  justified  by  the  applicant  as  the 
introduction of the ODT formulation is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in 
the total usage of sildenafil as the new ODT formulation will be an additional formulation available 
for use in place of the immediate release (IR) tablet currently on the EU market. Therefore, the 
ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
2.3.6.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A  limited  nonclinical  programme  has  been  conducted  in  support  of  this  extension  application, 
which is considered acceptable. The available nonclinical safety data on sildenafil ODT, including 
existing toxicity data on sildenafil IR, the local tolerance study conducted specifically on the ODT 
formulation  and  risk  assessment  on  other  components  of  the  formulation,  indicate  from  the 
nonclinical  perspective  no  difference  in  the  benefit/risk  profile  compared  to  the  one  of  the 
approved film-coated IR tablet. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
To support the application for the 50 mg orodispersible tablet, two main pharmacokinetic studies 
were submitted: a pivotal bioequivalence study (A1481289) and a food-effect study (A1481290). 
These  studies  with  the  final  proposed  ODT  formulation  were  key  for  the  assessment  and  are 
described  below.  In  addition,  during  the  development  three  studies  (A1481265,  A1481266, 
A1481273)  were  conducted  investigating  the  bioavailability  of  sildenafil  following  administration 
of  experimental  ODT  formulations.  Using  a  taste  mask  approach  (A1481265  and  A1481266)  as 
well  as  a  modified  ODT  that  used  citrate  salt  and  a  simple  drug  substance  plus  flavourings 
approach (A1481273). 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 11/20 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Study A1481289 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a randomized, open-label, 3-treatment, 3-period, crossover, single-dose bioequivalence 
study in healthy male subjects 45 years or older. Thirty six (36) subjects were planned to be 
enrolled into the study; dropouts could be replaced at the discretion of the sponsor and 
investigator. Screening evaluation occurred within 28 days prior to the first dose of Period 1. The 
randomization of subjects to treatment administration was generated using a Williams design; 
eligible subjects were assigned to 1 of the 6 treatment sequences to receive the following 3 
treatments:  
• 
• 
• 
Treatment A: Viagra 50 mg tablet, administered with approximately 240 mL water under 
fasted conditions.  
Treatment B: Sildenafil ODT tablet 50 mg, administered without water under fasted 
conditions. Subjects were required to wet the mouth by swallowing 20 mL of water directly 
before placing the ODT on the tongue. Subjects were permitted to consume water as desired 
without restriction 1 hour post dose.  
Treatment C: Sildenafil ODT tablet 50 mg, administered with water under fasted conditions. 
Subjects were asked to allow the tablet to disintegrate completely in their mouth prior to 
drinking 240 mL water. 
Day 0 was defined as the day prior to first day of dosing (Day 1) in each Period. Subjects were 
admitted to the Clinical Research Unit (CRU) on Day 0 of each Period and remained at the CRU 
until the completion of all study activities on Day 1 for Periods 1 and 2, and Day 2 for Period 3. 
There was at least a 1-day washout period between successive doses. Subjects could have been 
accommodated to stay at the CRU between Periods if successive doses were no more than 2 days 
apart. 
Blood samples (6 mL) were collected for each study period to provide a minimum of 2.5 mL 
plasma for pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis at pre-dose, and at 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 
8, 10, 12 and 14 hours post-dose in tubes containing sodium heparin anticoagulant. Sildenafil and 
UK-103,320 PK parameters were calculated for each subject and treatment using non-
compartmental analysis of concentration-time data. 
Test and reference products  
Sildenafil citrate ODT 50 mg and commercial Viagra 50 mg immediate release tablets (Amboise-
manufactured) were supplied by Pfizer Global Research & Development to the CRU in bulk 
labelled blisters. CRU generated labels consistent with protocol for dispensation and 
administration of drug to subjects. 
Population(s) studied   
Thirty six (36) subjects were assigned and received study treatment. No subjects were 
discontinued from the study and all 36 subjects completed the study. All subjects were analysed 
for PK and safety. Twelve (12) subjects in each of the sildenafil ODT 50 mg (with and without 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 12/20 
 
 
 
water) treatments and 14 subjects receiving Viagra 50 mg (with water) were analyzed for 
laboratory data in Period 3 (collected at Screening, Day 0 of Period 1 and prior to discharge from 
the CRU in Period 3). 
Mean age (standard deviation [SD]) for all subjects was 51.3 (6.1) years. Mean (SD) weight, BMI 
and height for all subjects were 69.5 (9.3) kg, 24.7 (3.0) kg/m2 and 167.6 (5.9) cm, 
respectively. All subjects were Asian males. 
Analytical methods   
For  analysis  of  sildenafil  and  the  active  metabolite  UK-103,320,  validated  LC-MS/MS  methods 
were  applied,  with  a  lower  limit  of  quantitation  of  1  ng/ml.  Run  performance  for  the  calibration 
standards as well as for the QC samples during study sample analysis were  within the  standard 
criteria,  as  indicated  in  the  EMA  guideline  on  bioanalytical  method  validation.  Incurred  samples 
reanalysis showed good reproducibility. 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
The primary PK variables of the study were defined as area under the plasma concentration-time 
profile from time 0 to the time of the last quantifiable concentration (AUClast) and maximum 
observed plasma concentration (Cmax) of sildenafil and secondary PK variables included area 
under the plasma concentration-time profile from time 0 to infinity (AUCinf), time to achieve 
maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) and terminal half-life (t½) of sildenafil.  
Statistical methods  
Natural log transformed AUClast, AUCinf and Cmax of sildenafil were analyzed using a mixed effect 
model with sequence, period and treatment as fixed effects and subject within sequence as a 
random effect. Estimates of the adjusted mean differences (Test - Reference) and corresponding 
90% confidence interval (CI) were obtained from the model. The adjusted mean differences and 
90% CI for the differences were exponentiated to provide estimates of the ratio of adjusted 
geometric means (Test/Reference) and 90% CI for the ratios. Treatment A was the Reference 
treatment while Treatments B and C were the 2 Test treatments. Bioequivalence of Test 
treatment (Treatment B) relative to the Reference treatment (Treatment A) was to be concluded 
if the 90% CI for the ratio of adjusted geometric means for both AUClast and Cmax fell wholly 
within (80%, 125%). Relative bioavailability was to be estimated as the ratio of adjusted 
geometric means for Test treatment (Treatment C) relative to the Reference treatment for AUClast 
and Cmax. The PK parameters AUClast, AUCinf, Cmax, Tmax and t½ were summarized descriptively 
by treatment. 
Results 
In the pivotal study A1481289, using the proposed final 50 mg ODT formulation and including 36 
healthy volunteers, bioequivalence could be proven between the ODT administered without water 
and  the  50  mg  Viagra  tablet.  This  was  the  primary  objective  of  this  study.  In  case  the  ODT 
formulation is administered with water, bioequivalence could be proven for AUC but not for Cmax. 
For Cmax, the observed 90% confidence interval of 79.76 – 92.78% was just outside the normal 
applied 90% confidence interval of 80.00 – 125.00% (see tables below), which is considered not 
of concern also in light of the overall data. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 13/20 
 
 
 
 
Table PK 1. Mean pharmacokinetic variables of sildenafil after administration of the final proposed 
50 mg ODT formulation with and without water and the 50 mg Viagra tablet with water. 
Table PK 2. Statistical analysis for treatment comparison. 
Study A1481290 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a randomized, open-label, 2-treatment, 2-period, crossover, single-dose food-effect 
study in healthy male subjects 45 years or older. Twelve (12) male subjects were planned to be 
enrolled into the study. Dropouts could be replaced at the discretion of the Sponsor and 
Investigator. Screening evaluation occurred within 28 days prior to the first dose of Period 1. The 
randomization of subjects to treatment administration was generated using a Latin square 
design; eligible subjects were assigned to 1 of the 2 treatment sequences to receive the following 
2 treatments: 
• 
• 
Treatment A: Sildenafil ODT tablet 50 mg, administered without water under fasted 
conditions. Subjects were required to wet the mouth by swallowing 20 mL of water directly 
before placing the ODT on the tongue. Subjects were permitted to consume water as desired 
without restriction 1 hour post dose.  
Treatment B: Sildenafil ODT tablet 50 mg, administered without water under fed conditions. 
The meal was a standard high fat breakfast. Subjects were required to wet the mouth by 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 14/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
swallowing 20 mL of water directly before placing the ODT on the tongue. Subjects were 
permitted to consume water as desired without restriction 1 hour post dose. 
Subjects in Treatment B started breakfast 30 minutes prior to administration of the study drug 
after an overnight fast of at least 10 hours. The meal was to be consumed over a 25-minute 
period with the study drug administered within 5 minutes after completion of the meal. 
Day 0 was defined as the day prior to first day of dosing (Day 1) in each period. Subjects were 
admitted to the Clinical Research Unit (CRU) on Day 0 of each period and remained at the CRU 
until the completion of all study procedures on Day 1 for Period 1 and Day 2 for Period 2. There 
was a minimum 1-day washout period between successive doses. Subjects could be 
accommodated to stay at the CRU between periods if successive doses were no more than 2 days 
apart. 
Blood samples (6 mL) were collected for each study period to provide a minimum of 2.5 mL 
plasma for pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis at pre-dose and at 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 
10, 12 and 14 hours post-dose in tubes containing sodium heparin anticoagulant. Sildenafil and 
UK-103,320 PK parameters were calculated for each subject and treatment group using non-
compartmental analysis of concentration-time data. 
Test and reference products  
Sildenafil citrate ODTs were supplied by Pfizer Global Research & Development (PGRD) as 50 mg 
tablets to the CRU in bulk labelled blisters. 
Population(s) studied  
Twelve (12) subjects were assigned and received study treatment. No subjects were discontinued 
from the study and all 12 subjects completed the study. All subjects were analysed for PK and 
safety. Six (6) subjects in each of the fed and fasted treatments were analysed for laboratory 
data in Period 2. 
Mean age (standard deviation [SD]) for all subjects was 56.6 (8.2) years. Mean (SD) weight, BMI 
and height for all subjects were 68.1 (10.8) kg, 24.8 (3.3) kg/m2 and 165.7 (6.0) cm, 
respectively. All subjects were Asian males. 
Analytical methods  
For analysis of sildenafil and the active metabolite UK-103,320, validated LC-MS/MS methods 
were applied, with a lower limit of quantitation of 1 ng/ml. Run performance for the calibration 
standards as well as for the QC samples during study sample analysis were within the standard 
criteria, as indicated in the EMA guideline on bioanalytical method validation. Incurred samples 
reanalysis showed good reproducibility. 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
The primary PK variables of the study were defined as area under the plasma concentration-time 
profile from time 0 to final measurable time point (AUC[0-t]) and maximum observed plasma 
concentration (Cmax) of sildenafil and secondary PK variables included area under the plasma 
concentration-time profile from time 0 to infinity by extrapolation (AUCinf) , time to achieve 
maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) and half-life of sildenafil. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 15/20 
 
 
 
Statistical methods   
Natural log transformed AUC(0-t), AUCinf  and Cmax of sildenafil were analyzed using a mixed effect 
model with sequence, period and treatment as fixed effects and subject within sequence as a 
random effect. Estimates of the adjusted mean differences (Test – Reference) and corresponding 
90% CI were obtained from the model. The adjusted mean differences and 90% CI for the 
differences were exponentiated to provide estimates of the ratio of adjusted geometric means 
(Test/Reference) and 90% CI for the ratios. Treatment A was the Reference treatment while 
Treatment B was the Test treatment. The food effect was estimated as the ratio of adjusted 
geometric means for Test treatment relative to the Reference treatment for AUC(0-t) and Cmax. The 
PK parameters AUC(0-t), AUCinf, Cmax, Tmax and terminal elimination half-life (t1/2) were 
summarized descriptively by treatment. For AUC(0-t), AUCinf, and Cmax, individual subject 
parameters were plotted by treatment. Concentrations were listed and summarized descriptively 
by PK sampling time and treatment. Individual subject and summary profiles (median and mean) 
of the concentration-time data was plotted by treatment. For summary statistics and median 
plots by sampling time, the nominal PK sampling time was used, for individual subject plots by 
time, the actual PK sampling time was used.  
Results 
In the food effect study A1481290, the effect of standard breakfast was evaluated in 12 healthy 
subjects.  Intake  of  food  delayed  the  rate  of  absorption  by  more  than  3  hours.  As  a  result,  Cmax 
was decreased by 59%. In addition, AUCt decreased by about 12%. These results are in line with 
those  observed  for  the  immediate-release  tablet  formulation,  however  appears  to  be  more 
pronounced. Previous  available  data  for  the  immediate-release  formulation  showed  that  if  taken 
with food, the rate of absorption is reduced with a mean delay in tmax of 60 minutes and a mean 
reduction in Cmax of 29%, while AUCt was not affected. 
Table PK 3. Mean pharmacokinetic variables of sildenafil after administration of the final proposed 
50 mg ODT formulation with and without a standard breakfast. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 16/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure PK 1. Mean sildenafil plasma concentration-time curves after administration of the final proposed 50 
mg ODT formulation with and without a standard breakfast. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study the 50 mg orodispersible tablet is considered 
bioequivalent with the 50 mg immediate release film-coated tablet. 
In the food effect study the intake of food resulted in a decrease of Cmax and AUCt. Such food 
effect has in principle also been observed with the immediate-release tablet formulation, and is 
anticipated to affect the onset of effect. The SmPC for the orodispersible tablet sufficiently took 
into account the results of this food interaction study, i.e. the ODT is recommended to be taken 
on an empty stomach as concomitant intake with food delays absorption and delays the effect of 
the orodispersible tablet. Also the SmPC advises that based on efficacy and tolerability, the dose 
may be increased to 100 mg. The directions in the SmPC are adequate to manage this food effect 
on the formulation. 
2.5.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.6.  Clinical efficacy  
No studies were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of sildenafil ODT in a patient population and 
no changes to the recommended dosing regimen or therapeutic indication are being sought in this 
application. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 17/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.7.  Clinical safety 
The safety data for sildenafil citrate are well established, have been extensively described in 
previous regulatory submissions, and are considered to be accurately reflected in the currently 
approved product labelling. Safety data from recent studies using the ODT (A1481265, 
A1481273, A1481289, A1481290) were consistent with the known safety profile of sildenafil 
citrate, and no new safety concerns were identified with the use of sildenafil citrate ODT 
formulation developed for commercialization. There were no deaths, SAEs, severe AEs, or 
discontinuations due to AEs. 
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The applicant has provided documents that set out a detailed description of the system of 
pharmacovigilance. A statement signed by the applicant and the qualified person for 
pharmacovigilance, indicating that the applicant has the services of a qualified person responsible 
for pharmacovigilance and the necessary means for the notification of any adverse reaction 
occurring either in the Community or in a third country has been provided. 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH has not submitted an updated Risk Management Plan as part of this application. The 
MAH considered that efficacy and safety data from the use of the Viagra ODT formulation in 
healthy subjects as well as patients did not introduce any significant change to the overall 
benefit/risk of the compound in the treatment of patients with ED. No specific pharmacovigilance 
and risk minimization activities beyond those currently in place for this product –and described in 
the current Viagra RMP (v3.1) – are deemed necessary hence not requiring an update to this 
RMP. This was considered acceptable by the CHMP because the sildenafil ODT formulation was 
bioequivalent to currently approved film-coated oral tablet and its safety was considered to be 
similar to that of the conventional film-coated tablet. 
2.9.  User consultation 
The patient information leaflet for the Viagra orodispersible tablets takes into account the results 
of a readability test which was approved as part of the latest renewal application in 2008. The 
new pharmaceutical form applied for introduces minor changes to the Viagra patient information 
leaflet in terms of administration and patient readability. The MAH’s justification for not 
conducting further user testing was accepted. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefit-risk balance 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 18/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This application concerns the introduction of a new pharmaceutical form: 50 mg orodispersable 
tablet (ODT). No changes to the recommended dosing regimen or therapeutic indication were 
sought in this application. 
The bioequivalence study A1481289 forms the pivotal basis with a three period, cross over design 
investigating the new ODT formulation with and without water in comparison with the immediate-
release formulation. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of 
this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, 
sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical 
method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. In this 
pivotal study, using the proposed final 50 mg ODT formulation, bioequivalence was demonstrated 
between the ODT administered without water and the 50 mg immediate-release tablet. In case 
the ODT formulation is administered with water, bioequivalence could formally be proven for AUC 
only. For Cmax, the lower limit of the 90% confidence interval was just outside the standard 
requirement. However, taken also into consideration the overall data this marginal deviation was 
considered acceptable. 
Like for the already approved immediate-release formulation there is a food effect with delayed 
rate of absorption by more than 3 hours resulting in a decrease of both Cmax and of the AUCt. This 
is likely to affect the onset of action hence appropriate guidance was included in the SmPC that 
the product is recommended to be taken on an empty stomach. 
No further clinical studies were conducted with this new pharmaceutical form (orodispersible 
tablets) to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sildenafil ODT in a patient population. Indeed, the 
safety and efficacy data for sildenafil citrate are well established, have been extensively described 
in previous regulatory submissions, and are considered to be accurately reflected in the currently 
approved product labelling. Safety data from PK/PD studies using the ODT were consistent with 
the known safety profile of sildenafil citrate and no new safety concerns were identified. 
In conclusion, based on the pharmacokinetic data and the long-term knowledge on the safety and 
efficacy of Viagra film-coated tablets (sildenafil citrate), it is considered that benefit risk for this 
new orodispersible tablet formulation is positive.  
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by 
consensus decision that the benefit-risk balance of Viagra 50 mg orodispersible tablet in the 
following indication: 
“Treatment of men with erectile dysfunction, which is the inability to achieve or maintain a penile 
erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance. In order for VIAGRA to be effective, sexual 
stimulation is required.” 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the extension of the marketing 
authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 19/20 
 
 
 
 
Other conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided 
for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web 
portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of 
the medicinal product 
• Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new  
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same 
time. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/633051/2012 
Page 20/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
