EMA/17073/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000202 
EPAR summary for the public 
Viagra 
sildenafil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Viagra. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Viagra. 
What is Viagra? 
Viagra is a medicine that contains the active substance sildenafil. It is available as tablets (25, 50 or 
100 mg) and as orodispersible tablets (50 mg). Orodispersible tablets are tablets that dissolve in the 
mouth. 
What is Viagra used for? 
Viagra is used to treat adult men with erectile dysfunction (sometimes called impotence), when they 
cannot get or keep a sufficiently hard penis (erection) for satisfactory sexual activity. For Viagra to be 
effective, sexual stimulation is required. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Viagra used? 
The recommended dose of Viagra is 50 mg taken as needed about one hour before sexual activity. If 
Viagra is taken with food, the onset of activity may be delayed compared with taking it without food. 
The orodispersible tablets should be placed on the tongue and left to disintegrate before swallowing.  
The dose may be increased to a maximum of 100 mg or decreased to 25 mg depending on the 
effectiveness and side effects. Patients with liver problems or severe kidney problems should start 
treatment with the 25 mg dose. The maximum recommended dosing frequency is once a day. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Viagra work? 
The active ingredient in Viagra, sildenafil, belongs to a group of medicines called phosphodiesterase 
type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors. It works by blocking the phosphodiesterase enzyme, which normally breaks 
down a substance known as cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). During normal sexual 
stimulation, cGMP is produced in the penis, where it causes the muscle in the spongy tissue of the 
penis (the corpora cavernosa) to relax, allowing the flow of blood into the corpora, producing the 
erection. By blocking the breakdown of cGMP, Viagra restores erectile function. Sexual stimulation is 
still needed to produce an erection. 
How has Viagra been studied? 
Viagra has been studied in four main studies including 1,690 men aged 19 to 87 years, where it was 
compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) for between 12 and 26 weeks. Two of these studies used 
fixed doses (patients allocated to 25, 50 or 100 mg) and two studies were flexible (patients started on 
25 mg and could be moved to 50 or 100 mg depending on their response). In addition, there were 
studies in patients with spinal cord injury and with diabetes. The main measure of effectiveness was 
based on the ability of the men to get and maintain an erection. This was recorded in a special 
questionnaire completed at home using a scoring system on a five-point scale, where a score of 5 
represents the best result. 
What benefit has Viagra shown during the studies? 
Viagra was significantly more effective than placebo in all studies. In the questionnaire, scores for the 
question on how often the patient was able to achieve intercourse went from about 2 without 
treatment to 3 or 4 with Viagra 50 mg. In the fixed-dose studies, the proportions of patients reporting 
that treatment improved their erections were 62% (25 mg), 74% (50 mg) and 82% (100 mg), 
compared with 25% on placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Viagra? 
The most common side effects with Viagra are headache, flushing, dyspepsia (indigestion), visual 
disorders, including visual colour distortion and blurred vision, nasal congestion (blocked nose), 
dizziness, nausea and hot flushes. For the full list of all side effects reported with Viagra, see the 
package leaflet. 
Viagra must not be used where sexual activity is inadvisable (e.g. men with severe heart disease such 
as unstable angina or severe heart failure). It must also not be taken by patients who have ever had 
loss of vision because of a problem with blood flow to the nerve in the eye (non-arteritic anterior 
ischemic optic neuropathy or NAION). Viagra must not be taken with nitrates (medicines used to treat 
angina) or medicines of the class ‘guanylate cyclase stimulators’ such as riociguat (used to treat 
pulmonary hypertension [high blood pressure in the lungs]). Because Viagra has not been studied in 
patients with severe liver disease, hypotension (low blood pressure), recent stroke or myocardial 
infarction (heart attack), or a hereditary eye disease, such as retinitis pigmentosa, these patients must 
not use it. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Viagra  
EMA/17073/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why has Viagra been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Viagra’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Viagra? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Viagra is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Viagra, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Viagra 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Viagra on 14 September 1998.  
The full EPAR for Viagra can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Viagra, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2016. 
Viagra  
EMA/17073/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
