European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/379172/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Victoza 
International Nonproprietary Name: liraglutide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001026 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 4 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 15 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 42 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 44 
Page 2 of 49 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Novo  Nordisk  A/S  submitted  on  23  May  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Victoza,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 3 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 13 December 2007.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 18 November 2004, 14 December 2006, 
15 November 2007 and 24 April 2008. The Scientific Advice given in November 2004 pertained to 
pharmacokinetics, carcinogenicity and the potential for QT-prolongation. The Scientific Advice given 
in  December  2006  related  to  quality  aspects  of  the  dossier  such  as  design  of  comparability  studies, 
bioequivalence,  and  drug  product  specifications.  The  Scientific  Advice  given  in  November  2007 
pertained  to  the  paediatric  investigation  plan.  And  the  Scientific  Advice  given  in  April  2008  was 
related to clinical aspects related to the potential indication of the product. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP: 
Rapporteur: Pieter de Graeff  Co-Rapporteur: Steffen Thirstrup 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 23 May 2008. 
The procedure started on 25 June 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  15 
September  2008.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members  on  12  September  2008.  In  accordance  with  Article  6(3)  of  Regulation  (RC)  No 
726/2004, the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur declared that they had completed their assessment 
report in less than 80 days. 
During  the  meeting  on  23  October  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 October 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  18 
December 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 3 February 2009. 
During the CHMP meeting on 19 February 2009, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
23 March 2009. 
During the meeting on 20-23 April 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Victoza  on  23  April  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 17 April 2009. 
Page 3 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Introduction 
2.1 
An  important  and  possibly  primary  defect  in  type  2  diabetes  may  be  an  impaired  incretin  function. 
Treatment with glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) can help to compensate for this defect as GLP-1 has 
been  shown  to  reduce  hyperglycaemia  in  subjects  with  type  2  diabetes.  Studies  with  native  GLP-1 
have shown that the primary mechanisms of action are 1) to stimulate insulin secretion and decrease 
glucagon secretion in a glucose-dependent manner, 2) delay gastric emptying, and 3) reduce appetite. 
In addition, GLP-1 might be involved in preserving beta-cell mass and function. Liraglutide is a GLP-
1 analogue. Like native GLP-1, the mechanism of action of liraglutide is mediated via a specific action 
on GLP-1 receptors. Already approved drugs with GLP-1 mediated mode-of-action include the GLP-1 
receptor agonist exenatide and the orally administered DPP-IV inhibitors sitagliptin and vildagliptin. 
Exenatide is administered twice daily by subcutaneous (SC) injections in relation to meals, whereas 
liraglutide  is  administered  once  daily  SC  for  the  convenience  of  the  patient  and  to  improve 
compliance. 
This application concerns the centralised procedure (Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, article 3(1) indent 
3). It is submitted in accordance with Article 8(3) in Directive 2001/83/EC for a new active substance. 
Conditional approval, an approval under exceptional circumstances or an accelerated review were not 
requested. 
The claimed indication was: 
Victoza is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to achieve glycaemic control in patients with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus. Victoza is indicated for once-daily administration as: 
•  Monotherapy 
• 
Combination therapy with one or more oral antidiabetic drugs (metformin, sulphonylureas or a 
thiazolidinedione) when previous therapy does not achieve adequate glycaemic control. 
The approved indication is:  
Victoza is indicated for treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to achieve glycaemic control: 
In combination with: 
•  Metformin or a sulphonylurea, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal 
tolerated dose of monotherapy with metformin or sulphonylurea 
In combination with: 
•  Metformin and a sulphonylurea or metformin and a thiazolidinedione in patients with insufficient 
glycaemic control despite dual therapy 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The drug substance, liraglutide, is a long acting analogue of the naturally occurring human glucagon-
like peptide-1 (GLP-1(7-37)) with 97% homology and a lipophilic substituent for prologation of half 
life.   
The GLP-1 receptor is the target for native GLP-1, an endogenous incretin hormone that potentiates 
glucose-dependent  insulin  secretion  from  the  pancreatic  beta  cells.  Unlike  GLP-1,  liraglutide  has  a 
pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  profile  in  human  suitable  for  once  daily  administration. 
Following  subcutaneous  administration,  the  protracted  action  profile  is  based  on  three  mechanisms: 
self-association,  which  results  in  slow  absorption,  and  binding  to  albumin  and  enzymatic  stability 
towards the DPP-IV enzyme both resulting in a prolonged plasma half-life. 
The  analogue  is  produced  as  the  polypeptide  precursor  by  r-DNA  technology  with  Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae  strain  YES2085  as  the  production  strain.  The  peptide  is  acylated  with  a  fatty  acid  chain 
Page 4 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
during  down-stream  processing.  No  animal  derived  raw  materials  or  excipients  are  used  in  the 
production of liraglutide. 
The drug product is a solution for subcutaneous injection containing 6.0 mg/ml of the drug substance 
presented in a pre-filled, multi-dose pen-injector. 
Drug Substance  
Liraglutide is a fragment of the naturally occurring human glucagon-like peptide-1 sequence position 
7-37  (GLP-1[7-37])  with  one  amino  acid  substitution  and  with  addition  of  a  fatty  acid  chain.  The 
analogue is produced using the recombinant DNA technology in Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). 
The theoretical molecular mass of liraglutide is 3751.20 atomic mass units.  
•  Manufacture 
Description of manufacturing process 
The liraglutide drug substance manufacturing process has adequately been described and a flow chart 
has  been  provided.  Briefly,  it  consists  of  the  following  main  steps:  fermentation  of  yeast  cells, 
recovery and purification of liraglutide precursor, acylation of the precursor and further purification of 
liraglutide to drug substance.  
Control of starting material 
Overall, the control of source and starting materials is considered adequate.  
Control of source and starting materials of biological origin: 
No animal derived raw materials are used in the production process.  
Source, history, and generation of the cell substrate: 
The  DNA  encoding  Arg34-GLP-1[7-37]  was  obtained  using  synthetic  DNA  oligonucleotides  and 
standard PCR techniques.  The construction of the expression plasmid pKV308, the source and history 
of  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae  strain  ME1719  and  the  generation  of  S.  cerevisiae  strain  YES2085 
producing liraglutide precursor are described in sufficient detail. DNA sequence of important selected 
regions of the pKV308 has been verified. 
Cell bank system, characterisation and testing:  
Generation,  characterisation  and  testing  of  the  cell  bank  system  (MCB  and  WCB)  is  sufficiently 
described. Compositions of all media and reagents used in the propagation and storage of cell banks 
are given together with information on their sterilisation. 
 The company provided sufficient justification for the submitted amount of data on genetic stability of 
the  expression  system.  A  stability  program  for  MCB  and  WCB  is  established  and  the  protocol  for 
generation of new WCB is provided. 
Control of source and starting materials of non-biological origin: 
The  requested  information  on  the  acylation  reagent  including  Certificate  of  Analysis  has  been 
provided and is considered acceptable.  
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
A  comprehensive  overview  of  critical  in-process  controls  and  critical  in-process  tests  performed 
throughout the liraglutide drug substance manufacturing process is given. Acceptable information has 
been provided on the control system in place to monitor and control the drug substance manufacturing 
process with regard to operational parameters and in-process tests.  
Page 5 of 49 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Process validation 
The  liraglutide  drug  substance  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  carefully.  Consistency  in 
production  has  been  shown  on  three  full  scale  commercial  batches.  All  acceptance  criteria  for  the 
operational  parameters  and  likewise  acceptance  criteria  for  the  in-process  tests  are  fulfilled 
demonstrating  that  the  purification  process  consistently  produces  liraglutide  drug  substance  of 
reproducible quality that complies with the predetermined specification and in-process tests. 
Impurities 
Overall the reduction of product related impurities is sufficiently discussed.  
The adequate removal of process related impurities during the purification process has been validated 
in the production facility. These impurities are not part of the liraglutide drug substance specifications. 
Manufacturing process development 
Detailed and sufficient information is provided on the sites for production and the changes introduced 
in the manufacturing process.  
Although a number of changes have been introduced in the manufacturing of drug substance a good 
comparability study has been presented in the dossier showing that batches of drug substances derived 
from  the  different  manufacturing  processes  and  locations  are  indeed  comparable  as  far as  the  purity 
profile is concerned.  
Characterization 
Extensive structural characterisation studies have been performed on the active substance and physico-
chemical  properties  have  been  shown.    State  of  the  art  methods  have  been  used  to  investigate  the 
primary,  secondary  and  tertiary  structure,  as  well  as  the  physico-chemical  properties  (peptide 
mapping,  N-terminal  amino  acid  sequence  analysis,  amino  acid  composition  analysis  and  mass 
spectrometry,  CD  and  biological  activity,  peptide  mapping,  MALDI  mass  spec,  SE-HPLC,  SDS-
PAGE, IEF, CE, RP-HPLC). The product related impurities are studied in sufficient depth.  
Biological activity: 
The  biological  activity  is  measured  with  a  cell  based  bioassay  reflecting  the  expected  physiological 
mechanism in the clinic. In short, liraglutide stimulates a continuous mammalian cell line transfected 
with  human  GLP-1  receptors  to  produce  intracellular  cAMP  in  a  dose  dependent  manner.  The 
bioactivity of the sample is calculated relative to the SRM (secondary reference material).  
•  Specification 
Specifications  for  the  liraglutide  drug  substance  were  revised  based  on  available  batch  data  and 
sufficiently justified. the In conclusion, drug substance is routinely controlled by a range of chemical-
physical  and  biological  tests  covering  identity,  purity,  potency  and  microbial  content  to  assure 
consistent production of the drug substance.  
Analytical methods 
The analytical assays and their validation are deemed acceptable.  
Reference material 
Reports  for  the  establishment  and  the  analytical  testing  of  the  current  primary  reference  material 
(PRM) and secondary reference material (SRM), as well as protocols for the establishment of future 
Novo Nordisk liraglutide primary and secondary reference materials are provided. The assignment of 
the  content  and  bioactivity  of  these  reference  materials  was  further  clarified  upon  request  with  the 
response to the LoQ D120. The strategy of Novo Nordisk concerning the reference material is clear 
from the provided documentation and deemed acceptable after introduction of a unit for bioactivity.  
Container closure system 
The  liraglutide  drug  substance  is  filled  into  High  Density  Polyethylene  (HDPE)  containers,  the 
suitability of the HDPE plastic container for the storage and transport of liraglutide drug substance has 
been demonstrated by studies of integrity, regular compliance of plastic materials and compatibility.  
In conclusion, the container closure system for liraglutide drug substance is sufficiently described. 
Page 6 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability 
Sufficient stability data has been provided to support the proposed shelf lifes of intermediates and drug 
substance.     
Drug Product  
Description and composition 
Victoza 6 mg/mL is a clear colourless solution containing liraglutide in a 3 mL cartridge presented in a 
pre-filled, multi-dose pen-injector. The solution is intended for subcutaneous injection.  
The  formulation is  a  phosphate–buffered solution  with  polypropylene  glycol  as  isotonic  agent.   The 
list of excipients includes disodium phosphate dihydrate, phenol, propylene glycol, sodium hydroxide, 
hydrochloric acid, water for injections. These are all known excipients. The pH of the isotonic solution 
is 8.15. 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Formulation development 
The formulation development has been adequately described, the choice of excipients is justified and 
their functions are explained.  
The formulation optimization has been based on evaluation of the following aspects: physical stability, 
chemical stability, preservative efficacy and biological properties. No new impurities are detected in 
drug product compared to drug substance. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Manufacturing process 
The manufacturing process of the drug product has been adequately described. The batch formula and 
the  flow  charts  are  provided.  Critical  steps  have  been  identified  and  acceptable  in-process  controls 
with action limits have been set. 
Control of excipients 
Excipients  are  adequately  controlled.  Specifications,  analytical  procedures,  validation  of  analytical 
procedures,  and  justification  of  specifications  comply  with  the  relevant  Ph.  Eur  requirements.  No 
excipients of human or animal origin and no novel excipients are used in the manufacture of the drug 
product.  
Validation 
Process validation data on the product has been presented for sufficient representative batches. 
•  Product Specification 
In general, appropriate drug product specifications have been set and justified. These include tests for 
appearance,  identity,  assay,  degradation,  particulate  matter,  sterility,  endotoxins,  dose  accuracy  and 
pH. 
Analytical methods 
In general, analytical methods have been adequately described and validated.  
Batch data 
Batch analytical data from the proposed production site have been provided. The results demonstrate 
compliance with the specification. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The submitted stability data sufficiently justify the proposed shelf life of the drug product. 
Page 7 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Liraglutide has been evaluated to be safe with regard to both TSE and viral agents, since no animal 
derived raw materials are used in the production process. Yeast is not a natural host for mammalian 
viruses, thus no virus testing has been performed neither on the cell banks nor the drug substance. This 
is regarded as being acceptable.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with existing guidelines. The information provided in the application demonstrates consistent batch-to-
batch  production  of  Victoza  achieving  a  well-defined  quality  for  the  drug  substance  and  the  drug 
product. The fermentation, recovery and purification of the drug substance, liraglutide, are adequately 
controlled and validated. Appropriate drug substance specifications have been set. The drug substance 
has  been  well  characterised  using  state-of-the-art  methods  with  regard  to  its  physicochemical 
characteristics.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  drug  product  has  been  described  and  validated  in 
sufficient  detail.  The  quality  of  the  drug  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test  methods  and 
specifications.  No  excipients  of  human  or  animal  origin  are  used  in  the  product  manufacture  and 
therefore there is no risk of contamination with viral or TSE agents by these ingredients. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  non-clinical  development  of  liraglutide  has  been  designed  in  accordance  EU/ICH  guidelines. 
Pivotal  safety  pharmacology  and  toxicology  studies  were  performed  in  compliance  with  GLP 
regulations.  None  of  the  bioanalytical  methods  used  in  pivotal  toxicology  studies  were  validated  in 
accordance with GLP; the validations however were performed in close adherence to GLP principles. 
Thus, the overall assessment was not considered to be influenced by this.  
The rat  and  monkey  were  chosen as  the  most  appropriate  species  for  toxicity  testing  owing  to  their 
pharmacological  responsiveness  and  comparable  metabolic  patterns.  Toxicokinetics  from  embryo-
foetal development studies also included rabbits.  
Scientific  advice  was  given  by  the  CHMP  regarding  pharmacokinetics,  carcinogenicity  and  the 
potential for QT-prolongation. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Liraglutide  is  a  long-acting  GLP-1  analogue,  designed  to  bind  to  albumin  as  the  main  molecular 
mechanism  of  protraction.  In  vitro,  this  was  shown  in  the  receptor  cAMP  as  well  as  binding  assay 
where addition of albumin right-shifted the dose-response and/or binding curve. The apparent reduced 
potency  of  liraglutide  underlines  that  only  the  free  fraction  of  liraglutide  is  responsible  for  its 
pharmacological effect in vitro as well as in vivo. Furthermore, liraglutide in a pharmaceutical solution 
forms a micell-like heptamer which may contribute to the slow absorption from the subcutis. 
Liraglutide is a potent, selective and efficacious agonist on the human as well as mouse, rat, rabbit, pig 
and Cynomolgus monkey GLP-1 receptor. Liraglutide has been shown to exert a number of actions in 
vitro  that  are  known  to  be  specific  GLP-1  effects.  Liraglutide  has  also  been  shown  to  glucose-
dependently stimulate insulin secretion from isolated β-cell islets in vitro. Liraglutide attenuated β-cell 
apoptosis  in  vitro  under  adverse  conditions  with  high  concentrations  of  free  fatty  acids  and  pro-
inflammatory cytokines. Moreover, a proliferative effect on primary rat β-cells could be demonstrated 
for liraglutide in vitro whereas no consistent effect was observed under hyperglycaemic conditions in 
vivo.  
Page 8 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
In vivo, liraglutide lowers blood glucose and body weight in a number of diabetic and obese models 
using  rodents,  pigs  and  monkeys.  The  mechanism  of  action  in  vivo  involved  glucose-dependent 
increase in insulin secretion, lowered glucagon secretion, decreased gastric emptying, loss of body fat, 
lowered food intake, altered food preference, and maintained energy expenditure. The mechanism of 
action is consistent with a specific GLP-1 effect. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Liraglutide had no cross-reactivity to a panel of 75 different receptors and ion channels. Moreover, it 
displayed no affinity to other closely related receptors in the glucagon-receptor super family including 
receptors for glucagon, GLP-2, secretin, GHRH, VIP and PACAP. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The  safety  pharmacology  programme,  focusing  on  central  nervous,  respiratory,  and  cardiovascular 
systems and renal function, raised no serious issues. Liraglutide was well tolerated, especially in mice 
and monkeys. The only effects observed were confined to the rat. These adverse effects consisted of 
decreased specific urinary gravity and osmolality, accompanied by a dose-dependent increase in urine 
volume and electrolyte excretion. With respect to the cardiovascular system, liraglutide (at 0.2 and 2.0 
mg/kg) induced dose-related increases in blood pressures and heart rate in rats, which were generally 
maintained for up to 24 hours after dosing. Moreover, body temperature was slightly reduced at 0.2 
mg/kg and significantly reduced for 13.5 hours at 2.0 mg/kg. According to previous studies performed 
in  rodents,  the  rat  is  especially  sensitive  to  GLP-1  agonists,  since  no  adverse  effects  on  the 
cardiovascular and renal system have been observed in other animals or humans. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Liraglutide  has  been  shown  to  lower  blood  glucose  synergistically  in  combination  with  the  PPARγ 
agonist  pioglitazone,  and  to  increase  insulin  secretion  synergistically  in  combination  with  the 
sulphonylurea  glipizide.  Although  no  considerable  effect  on  blood  glucose  was  obtained  with  the 
liraglutide-atorvastatin  combination  treatment  in  severely  diabetic  and  insulin-resistant  ZDF  rats,  a 
number  of  critical  diabetic  parameters  were  improved.  Concomitant  liraglutide  and  metformin 
treatment did not give rise to any additive effect on blood glucose during a 15-day study in ob/ob rats. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of liraglutide has been studied adequately. RIA and ELISA methods were used 
in the analyses performed 
Liraglutide was well absorbed from the injection site after a single subcutaneous (SC) administration. 
Overall bioavailability following SC administration was estimated to be 53% in monkey, 76% in pig 
and 55% in human. The distribution volume is low and close to plasma volume, which indicates that a 
high  fraction  of  liraglutide  is  circulating  in  plasma.  All  species  except  Sprague  Dawley  rats 
demonstrated  a  plasma  protein  binding  of  approximately  99%  or  higher.  The  plasma  proteins 
responsible  for  the  high  degree  of  observed  plasma  protein  binding  were  HSA  (99.4%)  and  AAGP 
(99.3%).  
The observations are consistent among species and demonstrate linear pharmacokinetics of liraglutide 
with dose-proportional exposures as measured by Cmax and AUC values or an exposure slightly higher 
than dose-proportional. No apparent gender-related differences were observed in the animal species. 
Following  repeated  administration  of  liraglutide  to  mice,  rats  and  monkeys,  only  a  minor  tendency 
towards  accumulation  was  observed.  The  accumulation  ratio  was  comparable  to  that  observed  in 
humans (<2). 
The  terminal  half-life  of  liraglutide  seems  to  be  similar  in  pigs  (∼14  h)  and  humans  (∼15  h)  while 
shorter  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits  and  monkeys  (4-8  h).  Several  studies  in  monkeys,  pigs  and  humans 
indicated  that  extravascular  administration  (SC  and  pulmonary)  of  liraglutide  prolongs  the  terminal 
half-life  as  compared  to  intravenous  (IV)  administration.  Furthermore,  the  terminal  half-life  seemed 
also to  be prolonged  by  repeated  dosing  in  rats,  monkeys,  pigs  and  humans.  This  tendency  was  not 
apparent  for  mice  and  rabbits.  The  observed  time  to  the  maximum  concentration  seemed  also  to  be 
Page 9 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
affected by repeated dosing in some studies. The differences in the pharmacokinetic parameters can be 
explained  by  the  study  design  or  absorption  rate  limited  kinetics  (in  the  latter  case  following  SC 
administration in pigs and humans). 
A  low  distribution  of  radioactivity  was  detected  when  comparing  the  results  from  administration  of 
125I-liraglutide,  14C-liraglutide  and  3H-[Pal]-liraglutide  with  radioactivity  predominantly  detected  in 
plasma. This is in accordance with what would be expected for this type of molecule and correlates 
well with the low volume of distribution found for liraglutide in monkey, pig and human. 
The  metabolic  and  excretion  patterns  were  highly  similar  across  species  with  liraglutide  being  fully 
metabolised in  the  body  by  sequential cleavage  of small  peptide fragments  and  amino  acids. The in 
vitro metabolism studies indicate that the initial metabolism involves cleavage of the peptide backbone 
with  no  degradation  of  the  glutamate-palmitic  acid  side-chain.  Mice,  rats  and  monkeys  displayed 
similar plasma profiles and showed no significant gender differences. A higher number of metabolites 
were  observed  in  plasma  from  the  animal  species  (especially  the  rat  and  monkey)  as  compared  to 
human  plasma.  This  disparity  can  partly  be  explained  by  differences  in  the  sample  preparation  as 
human plasma samples were freeze dried prior to analysis causing a removal of volatile metabolites 
(including tritiated water). All detected metabolites were minor and obtained in low amount (<15%) 
and  therefore  no  structural  identification  of  these  was  performed.  This  is  acceptable  since  the 
metabolites  are  only  formed  in  low  amounts  and  since  the  metabolites  are  expected  to  resemble 
endogenous substances with well-known metabolic pathways. 
Clearance of liraglutide is suggested to take place by multiple organs/tissues and a low potential for 
pharmacokinetic drug interactions related to CYP and protein binding has been demonstrated. 
Liraglutide crosses the placental barrier in rats and rabbits. However, the uptake of liraglutide into the 
amniotic  fluid  and  foetuses  is  low  (<9%).  Liraglutide  is  secreted  into  milk,  but  the  amount  of 
liraglutide that a pup would receive per day via breast milk is low (at most 3% of the maternal dose). 
This information is reflected in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single dose studies were performed in mice and rats in standard design studies and in monkeys in a 
maximum  tolerated  dose  (MTD)  study.  A  single  dose  of  10  mg/kg  was  generally  well  tolerated  by 
mice and rats without mortality. In monkeys, a single SC administration of 5 mg/kg was well tolerated 
without mortality. The observed reductions in body weight and food consumption can be regarded as 
pharmacologically mediated. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Pivotal repeat dose studies were performed in mice, rats and Cynomolgus monkeys. An overview of 
the toxicological programme can be found in the tables below:  
Study ID  
Species/strain  
Drug  
Dose Route  
Animals/sex/group  
NN203261  
CD-1 mice  
Liraglutide  
NN204082  
CD-1 mice  
Liraglutide  
SC  
Main study: 5 groups:10 males, 10 
females/group  
Satellite study: 5 groups:16 males, 16 
females/group  
SC 
Main study: 4 groups:10 males, 10 
females/group  
Satellite study: 4 groups:28 males, 28 
females/group  
Antibody study: 4 groups 5-15 males, 5-15 
females/group  
Dose groups 
(mg/kg/day)  
Duration  
0, 0.1, 0.5, 1.0, 5.0  
0, 0.2, 1.0, 5.0  
4 weeks  
13 weeks  
Page 10 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOEL/ 
NOAEL 
(mg/kg/day) 
NOEL <0.1mg/kg  
NOAEL 5mg/kg  
NOEL < 0.2mg/kg  
NOAEL 5mg/kg  
Study ID  
NN980183  
NN980189  
NN200239  
Species Strain  
Rats/Sprague Dawley  
Rats/Sprague Dawley  
Rats/Sprague Dawley  
Drug  
Dose Route  
Animals/Sex/Group  
Dose Groups 
(mg/kg/day)  
Duration  
NOEL/ 
NOAEL 
(mg/kg/day) 
Liraglutide  
SC 
Main study: 4 groups: 10 
males, 10 females/group 
Satellite study: 3 groups:10 
males, 10 females/group.  
Liraglutide  
SC 
Main study: 4 groups:10 
males, 10 females/group 
Satellite study: 4 groups:10 
males, 10 females/group. 
Recovery study: 2 groups: 
5 males, 5 females/group  
Liraglutide  
SC 
4 groups: 15 males, 15 
females/group  
0, 0.1 , 0.25, 1.0  
0, 0.1 , 0.25, 1.0  
0, 0.1 , 0.25, 1.0  
4 weeks  
NOEL <0.1 mg/kg. 
NOAEL 1.0 mg/kg  
13 weeks treatment + 4 
weeks recovery   
NOEL <0.1 mg/kg 
NOAEL 1.0 mg/kg  
26 weeks  
NOEL <0.1 mg/kg 
NOAEL 1.0 mg/kg  
Study ID  
NN980184  
NN990191  
NN200241  
Species/strain  
Cynomolgus Monkeys  
Cynomolgus Monkeys  
Cynomolgus Monkeys  
Drug  
Dose Route  
Animals/sex/group  
Liraglutide  
SC 
4 groups: 3 males, 3 
females/group  
Liraglutide  
SC 
Main study: 4 groups: 4 
males, 4 females/group. 
Recovery study: 2 groups: 2 
males, 2 females/group  
Liraglutide  
SC 
Main study: 4 groups: 4 
males, 4 females/group. 
Recovery study: 2 groups: 
2 males, 2 females/group  
Dose groups 
(mg/kg/day)  
Duration  
NOEL/ 
NOAEL 
(mg/kg/day) 
0, 0.05, 0.5, 5.0  
0, 0.05, 0.5, 5.0  
0, 0.05, 0.5, 5.0  
4 weeks  
NOEL < 0.05mg/kg 
NOAEL 5mg/kg  
13 weeks treatment + 2 
weeks recovery  
NOEL < 0.05mg/kg  
NOAEL 5mg/kg  
52 weeks treatment + 4 
weeks recovery  
NOEL 0.05mg/kg  
NOAEL 5mg/kg  
Liraglutide  was  well-tolerated  in  rats  and  monkeys  with  NOAEL  values  corresponding  to  plasma 
exposure levels  approximately  8-  and  70-fold  higher than  observed  in the  clinic,  respectively.  In  all 
species,  decreased  body  weight  gain  and  food  consumption  were  seen  in  the  first  weeks  of  dosing. 
These effects are result of the pharmacological action of liraglutide. Following this initial period, in 
general, the animals resumed a more “normal” growth pattern (i.e. comparable to that of the control 
group)  and  food  consumption.  In  rats,  males  seemed  more  affected  than  females.  A  slight  trend 
towards increased effects in males was also noted in the monkey. 
Some effects on haematology, clinical chemistry and sometimes also urine were seen. However, the 
effects  were  generally  small,  and  for  most  parameters  there  was  no  consistent  pattern  across  the 
studies. Histological examination did not reveal any clear treatment-related effects apart from C-cell 
hyperplasia in the thyroid of treated mice seen after 9-13 weeks of dosing. Effects on C-cells (focal 
accumulations  of  C-cells)  were  already  seen  in  the  4-week  mice  study  but  these  findings  were  not 
considered to be treatment-related. No effects on C-cells were seen in the rat and monkey studies up to 
26 and 52 weeks.  
An increased pancreatic weight was observed in cynomolgus monkeys following 52 weeks treatment 
at  plasma  exposure  levels  below  and  8-9-fold  higher  than  is  observed  in  the  clinic,  respectively. 
Page 11 of 49 
 
 
 
 
Further investigations of the pancreatic tissues collected in the 52-week monkey study showed that the 
increased pancreatic weight was due to a 67% increase in absolute duct cell mass and 64% increase in 
exocrine  cells  when  compared  to  the  vehicle  group.  Considering  that  concerns  have  been  raised 
regarding  the  potential  induction  of  acute  pancreatitis  following  treatment  with  GLP-1  receptor 
agonists,  there  was  a  request  to  evaluate  the  clinical  relevance  of  this  finding.  The  applicant 
substantiated that the statistical significant differences in pancreatic weight observed in mid and high 
dose animals were driven by the pancreas weight of the controls, which was low compared to that of 
the CRO historical control data. Moreover, normal histological morphology of the pancreas was seen 
in all studies and no clinical or biochemical changes were seen in any of the four non-human primate 
studies  and  also  there  was  no  histopathology  indicative  of  inflammation.  In  addition,  no  effect  on 
pancreatic weight was observed in the 87-week study. Based on the above, it was concluded that the 
findings made in the 52-week cynomolgus monkeys study do not suggest a safety concern for humans 
with respect to treatment related pancreatitis. 
At  the  end  of  the  52-week  monkey  study,  antibodies  were  found  in  a  few  monkeys  which  cross-
reacted with GLP-1. This implies that an immunological reaction against the body’s own GLP-1 could 
be possible. Data on antibody formation will be reported in the PSURs. 
Toxicokinetics 
Toxicokinetic analysis was performed as part of every study with blood samples colleted and analysed 
for the presence of liraglutide. Liraglutide was not detected in blood samples of control animals. In the 
26-week rat study, only two animals per sex were subjected to blood sampling and the samples were 
collected  pre-dosing.  This  is  not  in  line  with  CPMP/SWP/1094/04  “Guideline  on  the  evaluation  of 
control samples in non-clinical safety studies” but the study was conducted before the release of the 
guideline. The results from the toxicokinetic evaluations are presented in the table below. 
Study 
duration 
Dose  
(mg/kg/day) 
Cmax 
(nmol/L) 
AUC 
(h•nmol/L) 
Multiple of MRHD 
Cmax 
AUC 
CD-1 mice 
13 weeks 
7 days 
4 weeks 
13 weeks 
26 weeks 
4 weeks 
13 weeks 
52 weeks 
0.2 
1 
5 
0.125 
0.25 
1 
0.1 
0.25 
1 
0.1 
0.25 
1 
0.1 
0.25 
1 
0.05 
0.5 
5 
0.05 
0.5 
5 
0.05 
0.5 
5 
♂ 
145 
1012 
5927 
♂ 
115 
151 
425 
44 
155 
763 
39 
144 
358 
24.8 
85.2 
468 
♂ 
15 
157 
2679 
NC 
NC 
NC 
29.9 
439 
3680 
♀ 
247 
1320 
6289 
♂ 
1876 
11854 
74212 
SD Rat 
♂ 
1270 
2063 
6222 
549 
1915 
11993 
643 
2445 
9188 
379 
1270 
5640 
♀ 
68 
264 
470 
32 
173 
371 
53 
368 
768 
44.5 
128 
668 
Cynomolgus monkey 
♀ 
11 
127 
945 
NC 
NC 
NC 
62.4 
406 
3370 
♂ 
233 
2285 
35381 
NC 
NC 
NC 
523 
7610 
62100 
♀ 
2042 
18592 
62857 
♀ 
769 
3142 
5696 
460 
2485 
6155 
865 
3731 
12208 
583 
1900 
6840 
♀ 
170 
1430 
14938 
NC 
NC 
NC 
1110 
6430 
56300 
♂ 
3.2 
22.6 
132.6 
♀ 
5.5 
29.5 
140.7 
♂ 
2.6 
3.4 
9.5 
1 
3.5 
17 
0.9 
3.2 
8.0 
0.6 
1.9 
10.5 
♂ 
0.3 
3.5 
59.9 
NC 
NC 
NC 
0.7 
9.8 
82.4 
♀ 
1.5 
5.9 
10.5 
0.7 
3.9 
8.3 
1.2 
8.2 
17.2 
1.0 
2.9 
14.9 
♀ 
0.2 
2.8 
21.1 
NC 
NC 
NC 
1.4 
9.1 
75.4 
♂ 
2.3 
14.7 
91.7 
♂ 
1.6 
2.6 
7.7 
0.7 
2.4 
14.8 
0.8 
3.0 
11.4 
0.5 
1.6 
7.0 
♂ 
0.3 
2.8 
43.7 
NC 
NC 
NC 
0.6 
9.4 
76.8 
♀ 
2.5 
23.0 
77.7 
♀ 
1.0 
3.9 
7.0 
0.6 
3.1 
7.6 
1.1 
4.6 
15.1 
0.7 
2.4 
8.5 
♀ 
0.2 
1.8 
18.5 
NC 
NC 
NC 
1.4 
8.0 
69.6 
NC; not calculated 
The  maximal  recommended  human  dose  is  1.8  mg/day  SC  which  gives  rise  to  Cmax  and  AUC  values  of  44.7 
nmol/L and 809 h·nmol/L, respectively, at steady-state. 
Page 12 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Genotoxicity 
Results of the Ames test, the in vitro chromosome aberrations assay and the in vivo micronucleus tests 
indicate no genotoxic potential. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
In carcinogenicity studies, C-cell tumours were observed in mice and rats. A NOAEL value for these 
findings was established in mice at 0.2 mg liraglutide/kg/day, which results in plasma exposure levels 
similar to  what is  obtained  in  the  clinic.  A  NOAEL  value  was  not established in  rats.  A  number  of 
exploratory studies have been conducted in order to evaluate the mechanism behind liraglutide’s non-
genotoxic carcinogenic effect on rodent C-cells (see below). 
Uterus leioma and leiosarcoma were observed in mice but not in rats. Although there seemed to be an 
increased  number  of  tumours  in  treated  mice,  there  was  no  dose-response  relationship  and 
furthermore,  mice  are  very  sensitive  to  this  tumour.  Skin  sarcomas  were  increased  in  mice  at  high 
dose.  In  many  of  these  animals,  sarcomas  were  situated  around  the  microchip  which  may  have 
influenced their appearance. At the NOEL of 1.0 mg/kg/day, the safety margin was 13. 
In rats, pituitary gland carcinomas in the anterior lobe as well as uterus stromal polyps were increased 
in  high  dose  females.  However,  when  benign  and  malignant  tumours  of  pituitary  gland  and  uterus 
were combined, there was no relevant dose related effect. Furthermore, on an individual animal basis 
there was no relation between stromal polyps and pituitary carcinoma or adenoma. It is not considered 
likely that the pituitary carcinoma and stromal polyps are a risk for humans.  
An extensive package of mechanistic studies was performed to investigate the human relevance of the 
C-cell tumours which was considered of crucial importance and identified as a major objection during 
the procedure. In these studies, GLP-1 receptors were shown to be present in C-cells of all investigated 
species. GLP-1 receptors were present in higher amounts per cell in rat cell lines than in a human cell 
line.  In  addition,  literature  indicates  C-cells  are  less  abundant  compared  to  other  endocrine  cells  in 
human  thyroid  than  in  rodent  thyroid.  In  rat  C-cell  lines,  liraglutide  induced  cAMP  and  calcitonin 
secretion  (though  at  much  higher  EC50  than  exenatide).  In  a  human  cell  line,  the  response  was 
marginal. 
Using human thyroid tissue, co-localization of the GLP-1 receptor and calcitonin within C-cells was 
confirmed  by  double-staining,  while  GLP-1  receptor  mRNA  was  non-detectable  via  in  situ 
hybridisation  in  human  C-cells.  In  all  other  mechanistic  studies,  the  human  TT  cell  line  was  used; 
however concerns were raised whether this cell line was representative for normal (non-transformed) 
human tissue. To address this concern a new study was performed in order to compare GLP-1 receptor 
mRNA  content  in  thyroid  extracts  from  human  donors  with  levels  in  the  TT  C-cell  line.  It  was 
however not possible to correct the calculated mRNA content for the ratio of C-cells to total thyroid. 
The species difference in GLP-1 expression was however confirmed by in situ ligand binding. Overall, 
data show that GLP-1 expression in human C-cells is likely to be low, but not completely absent.  
In  mice,  liraglutide  produced  a  sustained  increase  in  plasma  calcitonin.  An  increase  in  calcitonin 
mRNA, indicating increased calcitonin synthesis, was visible after 2 weeks. Focal accumulation of C-
cells which was not considered to be treatment- related started to be visible after 4 weeks. Treatment-
related  C-cell  hyperplasia  was  observed  after  9  weeks.  C-cell  hyperplasia  was  also  observed  after 
exenatide continuous infusion up to 16 weeks, but not after bolus injections during the same period of 
time. 
In rats, increased plasma calcitonin levels were observed after 4 weeks administration. No information 
was  provided  regarding  weeks  1-3  in  this  study.  After  a  single  dose,  a  decrease  was  observed  in 
plasma calcitonin after an initial increase. This lowering in calcitonin can be explained by a massive 
loss of calcium in the urine due to a marked diuretic effect of a single dose of liraglutide in rats. In a 
long-term study (up to 16 months), plasma calcitonin showed no overall consistent change. This may 
be  because  the  half-life  of  calcitonin  is  very  short  in  rats,  approximately  4  minutes;  this  may  have 
played a role in this respect that it may be difficult to observe increases in plasma calcitonin in rats; 
however,  half-lives  in  other  species  are  not  mentioned.  In  rats,  following  long-term  dosing,  the 
increase  in  calcitonin  did  not  persist.  This  may  be  due  to  a  high  spontaneous  frequency  of  C-cell 
Page 13 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hyperplasia  in  combination  with  a  decrease  in  diffuse  C-cell  hyperplasia  in  aging  rats.  This  is 
supported by the higher incidence in control rats compared to control mice. In literature, spontaneous 
C-cell tumours have been reported to occur with high frequency in rats. Martin-Lacave (2002) reports 
a frequency between 16% and 40% in most strains and Kaspareit-Rittinghausen (1990) reported 51.5 – 
60%  in  Han:SPRD  rats.  Statistical  analyses  of  individual  animal  data  in  rats  revealed  a  correlation 
between early plasma calcitonin change (day 0 to day 28) and terminal focal C-cell hyperplasia score. 
In addition, the early calcitonin change was clearly larger in rats that later developed adenomas than in 
rats  that  did  not.  This  finding  supports  the  hypothesis  that  the  C-cell  hyperplasia  and  adenomas 
observed in the rodent carcinogenicity studies are caused by the continuous release of calcitonin due to 
persistent activation of C-cell GLP-1 receptors and the accompanying increased demand for calcitonin 
synthesis. The possibility that an additional mechanism for C-cell stimulation on calcitonin, not related 
to GLP-1R, may exist was addressed during the procedure. Data regarding a large number of receptors 
and ion channels indicate that liraglutide only shows affinity to the GLP-1 receptor. 
C-cell  hyperplasia  started  to  occur  from  28  days  dosing  in  aged  rats  and  from  210  days  dosing  in 
young  rats.  Adenoma  started  to  occur  in  both  aged  and  young  rats  from  210  days  of  dosing.  No 
changes in C-cell mass were observed after 26 weeks in young rats. 
In cynomolgus monkeys, no effect of liraglutide on plasma calcitonin was observed up to 87 weeks. 
No  C-cell  hyperplasia  was  observed  after  87  weeks  (animals  were  15-19  months  old  at  start).  No 
changes  in  C-cell  mass  were  observed  after  52  weeks  (animals  were  12-17  months  old  at  start). 
Literature  data  indicate  that  if  there  would  have  been  evidence  for  a  carcinogenic  mechanism  in 
monkeys based on C-cell proliferation in response to receptor stimulation, it would have been visible 
within these periods of time. 
It is concluded that the findings in rodents are caused by a non-genotoxic, specific GLP-1 receptor-
mediated mechanism to which rodents are particularly sensitive. The relevance for humans is likely to 
be low but cannot be completely excluded. Section 5.3 of the SPC reflects this information. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Studies were performed in rats in which male and female fertility and embryonic development were 
combined. Decreased body weight gain, decreased food consumption, and reduced faecal output are 
considered  due  to  the  pharmacological  action  of  liraglutide.  As  decreased  body  weight  gain  and 
decreased food consumption can be considered desired effects of liraglutide, they were not considered 
adverse effects in the determination of the NOAEL.  
Fertility  parameters  were  not  affected  except  for  a  slight  decrease  in  the  number  of  live  implants/ 
slight  increase  in  early  embryonic  deaths  at  1.0  mg/kg.  In  the  foetuses,  a  slight  increase  in  skeletal 
variations was observed. The safety margin for the effects on live implants and foetal effects was 3.  
In a pre and postnatal study in rats, in F0 animals, pharmacologically mediated effects were observed 
on body weight gain and food consumption. In F1 animals, a decreased weight gain was observed in 
all  treated  groups  in  the  pre-weaning  period.  Post-weaning,  at  high  dose,  a  slightly  decreased  body 
weight  gain  was  also  observed  in  F1  males  up  to  week  16  and  in  F1  females  during  gestation  and 
lactation but not in the pre-mating phase. In the F2 generation, a slight decrease in mean pup weight 
which  was  consistent  among  males  and  females  was  observed  at  high  dose.  This  finding  was  not 
statistically significant, but considered remarkable because it suggests that there could be an effect on 
body weight up to the second generation. 
In  embryofoetal  toxicity  studies  in  rabbits,  a  large  decrease  in  food  consumption  was  observed  in 
rabbits. Again, decreased body weight gain, decreased food consumption, and reduced faecal output in 
the F0 generation are considered due to the pharmacological action of liraglutide. Foetal effects were a 
reduced  foetal  weight,  an  increase  in  the  number  of  skeletal  variations  and  a  slight  increase  in  the 
number of gall bladder abnormalities. There was no safety margin for these effects, but they may well 
have been due to the markedly decreased food consumption. 
No studies were performed in juvenile animals.  
Page 14 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Local tolerance  
Single  SC  injection  of  liraglutide  or  vehicle  in  pigs  caused  a  mild  subacute  inflammation  in  the 
injection  site  tissue. These  studies  evaluated  the  local  tissue  reaction  after  one SC  injection  and  not 
after repeated dosing or after IV, intramuscular or intra arterial injection. Repeated dose administration 
was sufficiently investigated in the repeated dose studies.  
Generally mild effects at the injection site have been noted in rats and monkeys in the repeated dose 
toxicity studies.  
Local  tolerance following intramuscular,  IV  or intraarterial injection  was  studied  in  rabbits,  with  no 
relevant  differences  between  liraglutide-treated  sites  and  vehicle-treated  sites  observed  after 
intramuscular  or  IV  administration.  Injection  site  reactions  consisting  mainly  of  perivascular 
haemorrhage  and  periarterial  fibrosis/oedema  were  slightly  more  pronounced  following  intraarterial 
administration. A slight, treatment-related reaction can not be excluded should accidental intraarterial 
injection occur in humans. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity 
Immunotoxicity studies were not performed. This is acceptable as no relevant findings on the immune 
system organs were observed in the repeat dose studies, and immunotoxicity is not expected based on 
the mechanism of action. 
Metabolites 
The  major  metabolite  of  liraglutide  is  at  least  235-fold  less  potent  than  liraglutide.  All  human 
metabolites were also observed in the animal species studied in the toxicology studies and therefore, it 
is considered that these metabolites have been sufficiently investigated. 
Studies on impurities 
A study was performed to compare a formulation which was forcedly degraded by storage at 37 °C for 
2 months (to get sufficiently high levels of impurities) to a normal, non-degraded formulation. In this 
study,  there  were  no  relevant  toxicological  differences  between  the  two  formulations.  Antibody 
formation was investigated and no higher potential for immunogenicity was observed after 4 weeks. 
As the liraglutide-related impurities were present either at percentages which were at least as high as 
the specified percentages or at a sufficient safety margin when absolute amounts in mg/kg/day were 
taken into account, they were considered sufficiently qualified in this study. Possible genotoxicity of 
the impurities was not discussed. Normally this should also have been tested. In this case however, no 
genotoxicity is expected of the liraglutide-related impurities as they consist of peptides. 
According  to the  documentation in the  quality  part of  the  dossier, the product may  contain  residues 
from leachables from the packaging of the product, consisting of xylenes and Br-phenols. The amount 
of  xylenes  that  can  maximally  be  taken  in  by  users  of  Victoza  is  far  below  the  Permitted  Daily 
Exposure of 21.7 mg/day and the amount of Br-phenols that can maximally be taken in is below the 
threshold  for  toxicological  concern  (TTC)  of  1.5  µg/day.  Therefore,  no  relevant  risk  is  expected  of 
these leachables. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  CHMP  agrees  with  the  view  of  the  applicant  that  since  liraglutide  is  a  peptide,  consisting  of 
natural  amino  acids  and  a  natural  fatty  acid,  a  further  environmental  risk  assessment  is  not  deemed 
necessary as per the EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 guidance. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Overall, the liraglutide clinical development program comprised 38 completed trials. The trials were 
conducted  world-wide,  with  the  majority  conducted  in  Europe.  Two  trials  investigated  liraglutide 
delivered by alternative routes of administration and one investigated treatment of obese, non-diabetic 
Page 15 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects  for  a  separate  indication.  These  three  trials  are  included  as  they  provide  liraglutide  safety 
information.  
In addition, two complete reports describing data from subjects enrolled in the extension periods from 
Trials 1573 and 1572 are included.  
An overview of the therapeutic confirmatory trials can be found in the Clinical Efficacy section. 
The claimed indication for Victoza was: 
“as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  to  achieve  glycaemic  control  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes 
mellitus. Victoza is indicated for once-daily administration as: 
• Monotherapy 
•Combination  therapy  with  one  or  more  oral  antidiabetic  drugs  (metformin,  sulphonylureas  or  a 
thiazolidinedione) when previous therapy does not achieve adequate glycaemic control. 
The approved indication and posology are the following: 
Victoza is indicated for treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to achieve glycaemic control: 
In combination with: 
– 
Metformin or a sulphonylurea, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal 
tolerated dose of monotherapy with metformin or sulphonylurea 
In combination with: 
– 
Metformin  and  a  sulphonylurea  or  metformin  and  a  thiazolidinedione  in  patients  with 
insufficient glycaemic control despite dual therapy 
Posology 
To improve gastro-intestinal tolerability, the starting dose is 0.6 mg liraglutide daily. After at least one 
week, the dose should be increased to 1.2 mg. Some patients are expected to benefit from an increase 
in dose from 1.2 mg to 1.8 mg and based on clinical response, after at least one week the dose can be 
increased  to  1.8 mg  to  further  improve  glycaemic  control.  Daily  doses  higher  than  1.8 mg  are  not 
recommended. 
Victoza can be added to existing metformin or to a combination of metformin and thiazolidinedione 
therapy. The current dose of metformin and thiazolidinedione can be continued unchanged. 
Victoza can be added to existing sulphonylurea or to a combination of metformin and sulphonylurea 
therapy.  When  Victoza  is  added  to  sulphonylurea  therapy,  a  reduction  in  the  dose  of  sulphonylurea 
should be considered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia. 
During  the  development  of  liraglutide, consultations with  various  authorities  were  sought.  Scientific 
advice was obtained from the CHMP in 2004 prior to the initiation of the phase 3a programme. 
The  main  clinical  issues  of  the  CHMP  advice  were  the  clinical  programme  for  monotherapy,  dose 
selection and delayed disease progression. 
The clinical development programme included special populations such as those with impaired renal 
function  and  impaired  hepatic  function.  The  effect  of  gender,  age,  race  and  ethnicity  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  liraglutide  was  also  studied.  No  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  performed  in 
children. 
GCP 
The CHMP requested a GCP inspection of the clinical study NN2211-1572. Two investigator sites and 
the sponsor site in Denmark were inspected in this routine GCP inspection. The inspection revealed 
major  findings  and  one  critical  finding.  The  Inspectors  did  not  find  evidence  that  the  deficiencies 
found had impact on the overall validity and credibility of the data reported in this clinical trial and 
therefore  deemed  the  inspected  clinical  trial  as  valid  for  use  in  the  assessment  of  the  marketing 
authorisation application for Victoza.  
Page 16 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
to  evaluate 
The  clinical  pharmacology  programme  performed 
the  pharmacokinetic  and 
pharmacodynamic properties of liraglutide included 26 clinical pharmacology trials (see table below). 
These comprised 19 trials in healthy subjects (including bioequivalence trials, trials in elderly subjects, 
subjects with renal or hepatic impairment and Japanese subjects) and 7 trials in subjects with type 2 
diabetes (including one trial in Japanese subjects). The programme was supported by evidence from 5 
phase 2 trials, a population pharmacokinetic analysis from the therapeutic confirmatory Trial 1573 and 
from 10 in vitro studies performed with human biomaterials, i.e. cells, recombinant enzymes, plasma 
or plasma proteins. 
An ELISA assay was developed to measure plasma concentrations of liraglutide. The assay validation 
and analysis of samples were performed in accordance with current practice. The ELISA was found 
valid for analysing liraglutide in plasma samples regarding recovery, linearity, intermediary precision, 
sensitivity, goodness of fit and stability. 
During  the  assessment  there  was  concern  because  the  doses  used  in  the  pharmacokinetic  and 
pharmacodynamic studies do not correspond to the doses used in the clinical phase III studies (except 
studies investigating drug-drug interactions, gastric emptying and appetite assessments), and therefore 
it was unclear why results from these studies could be transferred to the therapeutic doses. The CHMP 
accepted  that  that  based  on  the  results  from  the  clinical  development  programme  the  observations 
made  in  the  early  trials  performed  with  lower  doses  of  liraglutide  are  found  to  be  relevant  and 
transferable  to  the  effects  and  results  obtained  in  the  later  long-term  confirmatory  therapeutic  trials 
using higher doses.  
•  Absorption  
The absolute bioavailability of liraglutide after SC injection was estimated to be 55% (Sd 37%). No 
clinical significant differences between the three most commonly used injection sites (thigh, abdomen 
and upper arm) were found and all three injection sites can be used interchangeably.  
During the liraglutide clinical development programme four formulations were used. Bioequivalence 
was assessed between the different adjacent formulations used (study 1331, 1636, 1693 and 1692). No 
bioequivalence  studies  were  performed  with  the  first  formulations  and  the  final  formulation  (e.g. 
formulation 1 or 2 versus formulation 4). Thus, results from studies with the earlier formulations can 
not  be  extrapolated  per  se  for  the  final  liraglutide  product.  However,  differences  in  the 
pharmacokinetic results of the different formulations were very small and did not give rise to different 
pharmacokinetic profiles, and the most important studies have been performed with formulation 3 or 
4.  Moreover  additional  statistical  calculations  were  used  to  prove  that  formulations  2  (considered 
essentially the same as 1) and 4 can be regarded as bioequivalent. 
•  Distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution (Vz/F) following SC administration was approximately 11-17 L. 
The  mean  volume  of  distribution  (Vz)  following  IV  administration  of  liraglutide  was  0.07  L/kg  at 
5µg/kg (approximately 5 L for subjects weighing 75 kg). This volume is small and close to the plasma 
volume,  indicating  that a  high  fraction  of  liraglutide is  circulating  in the  blood. The in  vitro  protein 
binding  was  above  98%  in  human  plasma  at  total  liraglutide  plasma  concentrations  of  0.1  to 
1000 nmol/L.  The  in  vitro  binding  of  liraglutide  to  HSA  and  AAGP,  was  99.4%  and  99.3%, 
respectively. Liraglutide can cross the placental barrier and is secreted in dog breast milk in preclinical 
studies. Liraglutide crosses the blood-brain barrier to a limited amount. 
Page 17 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Elimination 
Metabolism:  Liraglutide  has  two  minor  metabolites  (presence  each  less  than  10%)  with  no  clinical 
relevant  activity.  Only  low  amounts  of  liraglutide  metabolites  and  no  intact  liraglutide  are  found  in 
urine  and  faeces.  Liraglutide  is  analogous,  metabolised  as  endogenous  GLP-1  involving  dipeptidyl 
peptidase-IV (DPP-IV) and neutral endopeptidase (NEP). Liraglutide is considered almost completely 
metabolised  and  degraded  into  peptides,  amino  acids  and  fatty  acid  fragments,  and  subsequently 
completely  degraded  yielding  carbon  dioxide  and  water.  The  slow  metabolism  and  elimination  of 
liraglutide compared to endogenous GLP-1 can be explained by the stability against DPP-IV and NEP 
but  also  to  the  high  protein  binding  which  prevents  it  from  being  rapidly  eliminated  from  the 
circulation by renal filtration.  
DPP-IV and NEP are known to have genetic polymorphisms. However, variations of the DPP-IV gene 
have  mainly  been  associated  with  immunodeficiency  and  hypertension  and  single  nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) in the NEP gene have mainly been associated with diseases like Alzheimer’s, 
cerebral amyloid angiopathy, immune-mediated diseases and anxiety. No groups of subjects could be 
identified  with  different  elimination  parameters,  therefore  it  is  considered  that  if  genetic 
polymorphism  had  been  present,  the  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  liraglutide  is  minor,  or  that 
genetic polymorphism is rare. 
Excretion:  The  t½  following  SC  administration  of  liraglutide  was  approximately  13  hours  and 
apparent clearance (CL/F) ranged from 0.6-1.2 L/h. Following IV administration t½ was shorter (t½ = 8 
hours), probably caused by prolonged release of liraglutide from the injection site, and clearance was 
1.2 L/h for a median body weight on 90 kg (population pharmacokinetic). 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The  liraglutide  plasma  concentration  increased  with  increasing  doses  and  the  increase  in  AUC  and 
Cmax were proportional with dose in the range from 2.5 to 20 µg/kg administered as single dose. This 
dose  range  corresponds  to  0.18–1.44  mg  (based  on  actual  body  weight).  At  steady  state,  dose 
proportionality was demonstrated for AUCτ and Cmax in the dose range 0.38–0.93 mg (5-12.5 µg/kg). 
Also  dose  proportionality  in  the  dose  range  1.2–1.8  mg  was  sufficiently  demonstrated.  The 
accumulation  ratio  was  1.4  to  1.8  which  is in  agreement  with  the  elimination  pharmacokinetics  and 
dosing frequency of liraglutide.  
Study  1189  shows time  independence from  Day  1  until  Day  11.  The  population  PK  analysis shows 
that liraglutide clearance is not time dependent, with essentially the same clearance from week 2 until 
week 52. 
Variability: After single dose (Phase I studies) the estimated coefficient of variation (CV) was 20% 
for AUC0-∞. The estimated intra-subject CV was 11% for AUC0-∞. At steady state, a CV for AUCτ was 
26%  and  the  intra-subject  CV  was  19%.  In  most  other  studies  the  variability  was  moderate  as 
described  above,  however,  in  some  studies,  for  example study  1224,  inter-individual  variability  was 
much higher being up to 65 % and 75 % for AUC and Cmax, respectively.  
Page 18 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Special populations 
Pharmacokinetics in target population: The pharmacokinetic properties of liraglutide were overall 
comparable between healthy volunteers and subjects with type 2 diabetes. 
Special populations: As liraglutide is not cleared by one specific organ, renal and hepatic impairment 
have  only  a  limited  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  liraglutide.  Subjects  with  renal  impairment, 
indifferent  to  the  grade  of  impairment  have  a  decreased  exposure  to  liraglutide  (approximately  14-
26%). Subjects with hepatic impairment, have a decreased exposure to liraglutide (approximately 13-
44%), lowest in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (see Clinical studies in special populations).  
No  clinically  significant  differences  in  liraglutide  pharmacokinetics  were  found  between  male  and 
female subjects, subjects with different race, or elderly and younger subjects. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Liraglutide has no clinically relevant potential to inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 drug metabolising 
enzymes. No clinically relevant drug-drug interaction related to protein binding is anticipated either.  
The  effect  of  liraglutide  on  the  absorption  pharmacokinetics  of  co-administered  oral  drugs  was 
investigated  for  paracetamol  (acetaminophen),  digoxin,  lisinopril,  griseofulvin  and  atorvastatin.  In 
addition,  the  effect  of  liraglutide  on  the  absorption  pharmacokinetics  of  ethinylestradiol  and 
levonorgestrel  administered  in  an  oral  combination  contraceptive  drug  was  investigated.  An 
interaction study with warfarin was not performed. 
Concomitant administration of liraglutide and the selected orally administered drugs resulted in small 
changes  in  Cmax  as  well  as  minor  delays  in  tmax of  the investigated  drugs.  The  changes  observed  in 
exposure and absorption of the investigated drugs was not considered clinically significant. However, 
it  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  small  delay  in  gastric  emptying  with  liraglutide  may  potentially 
influence absorption of concomitantly administered oral drugs and result in drug-drug interaction. The 
results  of  the  performed  studies  should  be  extrapolated  with  caution  to  other  drugs.  Clinically 
significant  interactions  can  not  be  excluded,  especially,  with  drugs  with  poor  solubility  and  a  small 
therapeutic window, such as warfarin. A warning has been included in section 4.5 of the SPC to this 
respect with inclusion of a recommendation to monitor INR upon initiation of liraglutide treatment. 
Combination of liraglutide with insulin has not been evaluated and is therefore not recommended. This 
is also reflected in the SPC.  
Diarrhoea may affect the absorption of concomitant oral drugs. This is reflected in section 4.5 of the 
SPC as 12.6% of patients treated with liraglutide reported at least one episode of diarrhoea. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
Ten in vitro studies were performed with human biomaterials, i.e. cells, recombinant enzymes, plasma 
or  plasma  proteins.  Metabolism  was  studied  in  studies  NN205145,  NN206480,  NN206665, 
NN207147,  and  NN207312,  protein  binding  in  studies  NN200152  and  NN201223,  and  drug-drug 
interaction in studies NN980278, NN201224, NN203029. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamic properties of liraglutide were investigated in 9 randomised, double-blind and 
placebo-controlled  clinical  pharmacology  trials:  3  trials  in  healthy  subjects  (Trials  1149,  1189  and 
1608) and 6 trials in subjects with type 2 diabetes (Trials 1219, 1224, 1332, 1589, 1698 and 2063).  
Furthermore,  results  from  pharmacodynamic  assessments  in  4  exploratory  therapeutic  trials  were 
included  (Trials  1310,  1333,  1571  and  2072).  Pharmacodynamics  were  also  investigated  in  healthy 
Japanese subjects (Trials 1326, 1551 and 1694) and in Japanese subjects with type 2 diabetes (Trial 
1591). 
Page 19 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Mechanism of action 
Liraglutide is a GLP-1 analogue in which lysine at position 34 has been replaced with arginine, and 
palmitic acid has been attached via glutamoyl spacer to lysine at position 26. Like native GLP-1, the 
mechanism  of  action  of  liraglutide  is  mediated  via  a  specific  action  on  GLP-1  receptors.  In  vitro 
receptor  studies  have shown  that liraglutide is equipotent  to  endogenous  GLP-1.  Thus,  liraglutide is 
expected to induce the same pharmacological effects as native GLP-1 resulting in lowering of blood 
glucose.  
Following  SC  injection,  liraglutide  has  a  protracted  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  profile 
due  to  self-association  which  results  in  delayed  absorption  from  the  injection  site,  a  high  degree  of 
plasma  protein  binding  and  decreased  susceptibility  to  metabolism  by  DPP-IV  and  neutral 
endopeptidase  (NEP).  The  protracted  action  profile  makes  liraglutide  suitable  for  once-daily 
administration. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The  effects  of  liraglutide  on  glucose,  insulin  and  glucagon  response,  beta-cell  function  and  gastric 
emptying  were  investigated.  In  addition,  the  glucose-dependency  of  these  effects  (except  gastric 
emptying)  was  assessed. The  effect  of liraglutide  on appetite,  energy  intake  and  energy  expenditure 
were also assessed to explain observed lowering of body weight. 
The pharmacodynamic properties of liraglutide with respect to glucose, insulin and glucagon response, 
gastric  emptying  and  appetite  were  mainly  evaluated  by  concentration-time  profiles  of  glucose, 
insulin, glucagon and paracetamol as well as profiles of visual analogue scales (VAS) ratings. 
For  assessments  of  beta-cell  function,  the  insulin  secretion  rate  was  estimated  by  mathematical 
analysis (deconvolution) of peripheral C-peptide concentrations using a two-compartment model and 
standard  C-peptide  kinetic  parameters.  Furthermore,  HOMA-B  and  HOMA-IR  were  applied  to 
estimate beta-cell function and insulin resistance.  
A range of liraglutide doses were tested, but in most studies doses were lower than the final doses (0.6, 
1.2 and 1.8mg) chosen for the Phase III trials. The dose range in healthy subjects was not higher than 
1.4 mg for single dose administration; in multiple dose administration healthy subjects were dosed up 
to 1.8 mg in three trials.  
Studies in healthy volunteers revealed that glucose levels were lower at highest liraglutide dose used 
(1.4mg)  vs.  placebo;  insulin  levels  were  increased  with  liraglutide  only  at  elevated  glucose  levels 
during IV glucose tolerance test vs. placebo.  
Studies  in  subjects  with  type  2  DM  showed  that  liraglutide  lowers  overall  glucose  levels  during  24 
hours  and  suppresses  endogenous  glucose  release.  Furthermore,  postprandial  glucose  levels  were 
decreased  in  a  dose-dependent  manner.  Effects  on  insulin  levels  were  inconsistent  when  liraglutide 
dose  of  0,55  mg  (0,6  micrg/kg)  was  used,  but  increased  with  higher  liraglutide  doses.    Effects  on 
insulin appeared to be glucose-dependent.  
A statistically significantly lower iAUCglucose,0-5h (27% to 38%) was observed for liraglutide compared 
to  placebo.  Fasting  insulin  concentration  (Cinsulin,0h)  and  maximum  insulin  concentration  (Cinsulin,max) 
were  higher  for  liraglutide  at  all  three  dose  levels.  Overall,  there  was  a  dose-dependent  increase  in 
both fasting and postprandial insulin estimates. 
After a single dose of 10µg (0.87mg) an increase in insulin secretion rate was seen in the basal period 
before glucose pulse induction (9-10h post dosing) and there was a trend towards higher insulin levels 
during glucose pulse induction (10.5-11.5h post dosing). However, in general insulin levels were very 
similar for placebo and liraglutide. 
In all studies, glucose levels following liraglutide were lower compared to placebo. 
First and second phase insulin secretion was higher with liraglutide compared to placebo and appeared 
dose related.  
With  respect  to  beta  cell  function,  an  increase  in  HOMA-B  was  measured,  which  signifies  insulin 
secretion. HOMA-IR (insulin resistance) did not change. Pro-insulin/insulin ration was decreased with 
liraglutide.  Counter  regulation  in  case  of  hypoglycaemia  seems  to  be  intact.  However,  the  study  in 
Page 20 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which  these  parameters  were  measured  only  investigated  the  effects  of  a  low  dose  (0.68mg)  of 
liraglutide.  
Liraglutide has minor effects on gastric emptying, appetite and energy intake. The choice of the doses 
for the clinical phase III studies is studied further in the therapeutic exploratory studies. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response studies 
The  clinical  programme  included  six  therapeutic  exploratory  studies  (see  table  below).  These  trials 
were conducted in subjects with type 2 DM previously treated with diet/exercise or oral antidiabetic 
drug(s)  (OADs),  and  investigated  the  efficacy  and  mechanism  of  actions  of  liraglutide  in  patients 
treated  up  to  14  weeks.  The  primary  endpoints  of  these  trials  were  to  evaluate  the  effect  and  dose-
response  relationship  of  liraglutide  on  glycaemic  control  and/or  body  weight  in  comparison  with 
glimepiride  (Trial  1310),  metformin  (Trials  2072  and  1499),  combination  of  glimepiride  and 
metformin  (Trial  1499)  and  placebo  (Trials  1310,  1333  and  1571).  As  the  liraglutide  dose  in  these 
trials was relatively low, and the duration relatively short, data are considered supportive only to the 
results  of  the  therapeutic  confirmatory  studies,  providing  additional  efficacy  and  safety  data  (see 
Supportive studies).   
Trials  1571  and  1310  demonstrated  a  dose  response  of  liraglutide  with  respect  to  glycaemic 
parameters. The lowest dose with efficacy comparable to glimepiride was 0.60 mg; the highest dose of 
1.90 mg had only modest additional effect to the dose of 1.25 mg.  
Therapeutic Exploratory Trials 
Trial ID 
No. Subjects  
Exposed  
1571 
163 
1310 
190 
1333 
2072 
33 
210 
1499 
144 
1334 (Japan) 
226 
Treatment 
Treatment duration 
Primary endpoint 
14 weeks 
HbA1c 
12 weeks  
HbA1c 
8 weeks 
12 weeks 
Body weight 
Body weight 
5 weeks 
FSG 
14 weeks 
HbA1c 
Liraglutide 0.65 mg 
Liraglutide 1.25 mg 
Liraglutide 1.90 mg 
Placebo 
Liraglutide 0.045 mg 
Liraglutide 0.225 mg 
Liraglutide 0.45 mg 
Liraglutide 0.6 mg 
Liraglutide 0.75 mg 
Placebo 
Glimepiride 1-4 mg 
Liraglutide 0.6 mg 
Placebo 
Liraglutide 0.045 mg 
Liraglutide 0.225 mg 
Liraglutide 0.45 mg 
Liraglutide 0.6 mg 
Liraglutide 0.75 mg 
Metformin 500 mg  bid 
Liraglutide (0.5-2.0) + 
metformin 1g bid 
Placebo + metformin 
1g bid 
Glimepiride (2-4 mg) + 
metformin 1g bid 
Liraglutide (0.5-2.0) + 
placebo 
Liraglutide 0.1 mg 
Liraglutide 0.3 mg 
Liraglutide 0.6 mg 
Liraglutide 0.9 mg 
Placebo 
A  clear  justification  for  the  chosen  dosages  of  liraglutide  1.2  and  1.8  mg  is  lacking  as  most  of  the 
pharmacodynamic  studies  and  clinical  exploratory  trials  used  lower  dose  regimens.  The  CHMP 
accepted that based on the results from the clinical development programme the observations made in 
Page 21 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the early trials performed with lower doses of liraglutide are found to be relevant and transferable to 
the  effects  and  results  obtained  in  the  later  long-term  confirmatory  therapeutic  trials  using  higher 
doses. 
From a pharmacological point of view it is true that a dose-response effect is generally found in the 
monotherapy  trial.  However,  clinically,  results  in  combination  therapy  are  also  relevant.  A  dose-
response  effect  was  seen  in  the  monotherapy  trial,  but  the  dose-response  was  not  apparent  in 
combination. As far as the magnitude of the effect can be compared between trials, data suggest that 
the efficacy of the 1.2 mg is less in the monotherapy trial as compared to the combination trials. The 
dose-response in the monotherapy trial might be due to this lower efficacy of the 1.2 mg dose.  
Overall, percentages of AEs were comparable between doses in the long-term trials. However, there 
were differences in gastrointestinal (GI) events, especially in trial 1572 (combination with metformin) 
and trial 1574 (triple therapy with metformin and rosiglitazone). The withdrawals in these trials were 
higher on liraglutide 1.8 mg. 
It  is  concluded  that  the  results  of  the  pharmacodynamic  studies  and  exploratory  trials  can  be 
considered supportive and that the chosen dosages of 1.2 and 1.8 mg SC are considered acceptable, 
however, in the dual and combination treatment, only limited effect can be expected from an increase 
in dose to 1.8 mg, this is reflected in section 4.2 of the SPC.  
•  Main studies  
Long-term  efficacy  and  safety  was  initially  studied  in  five  therapeutic  confirmatory  trials  (see  table 
below), considered the main trials for this application. In addition to these, another trial (study 1797) 
was submitted as part of the responses to the Day 120 LoQ. This trial does not add further indications, 
but provides supportive safety and efficacy data for liraglutide in the treatment of type II diabetes in a 
non-switching setting (where liraglutide was added to MET, SU or MET+SU). No thorough efficacy 
discussion was provided during the procedure. As the study design and study results of trial 1797 have 
not been object of in-depth assessment it is not considered acceptable to draw any efficacy conclusions 
from this study.  
All trials were double-blind (except 1797 which was open-label), randomised, parallel group, multi-
centre trials in which the therapeutic response to liraglutide was compared with that of placebo and/or 
a specific active comparator drug.  
Key Features of the Liraglutide Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials 
Trial ID   No. Subjects Exposed 
Treatment 
Treatment 
Duration 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Monotherapy 
1573  
Total: 745 
Liraglutide 1.2 mg: 251 
Liraglutide 1.8 mg: 246 
Glimepiride: 248 
Dual therapy 
1572  
Total: 1087 
Liraglutide 0.6 mg + metformin: 242 
Liraglutide 1.2 mg + metformin: 240 
Liraglutide 1.8 mg + metformin: 242 
Metformin: 121 
Glimepiride + metformin: 242 
1436  
Total: 1040 
Liraglutide 0.6 mg + glimepiride: 233 
Liraglutide 1.2 mg + glimepiride: 228 
Liraglutide 1.8 mg + glimepiride: 234 
Glimepiride: 114 
Rosiglitazone + glimepiride: 231 
Liraglutide 6 mg/mL (1.2 or 1.8 
mg/day, s.c., q.d.) Glimepiride 
tablets (8 mg/day, p.o., q.d.) 
No protocol defined 
concomitant treatment 
52 weeks (+ 
48 months 
open-label 
extension) 
Change in 
HbA1c after 52 
weeks 
Liraglutide 6 mg/mL (0.6, 1.2 
or 1.8 mg/day, s.c., q.d.) 
Metformin tablets (2 g/day, 
p.o., b.i.d.) 
Glimepiride tablets (4 mg/day, 
p.o., q.d.) 
Liraglutide 6 mg/mL (0.6, 1.2 
or 1.8 mg/day, s.c., q.d.) 
Glimepiride tablets (4 mg/day, 
p.o., q.d.) 
Rosiglitazone tables (4 mg/day, 
p.o., q.d.) 
26 weeks (+ 
18 months 
open-label 
extension) 
Change in 
HbA1c after 26 
weeks 
26 weeks 
Change in 
HbA1c after 26 
weeks 
Page 22 of 49 
 
 
 
 
Triple therapy 
1574  
Total: 530 
Liraglutide 1.2 mg + metformin + 
1697  
rosiglitazone: 177 
Liraglutide 1.8 mg + metformin + 
rosiglitazone: 178 
Metformin + rosiglitazone: 175 
Total: 576 
Liraglutide 1.8 mg + metformin + 
glimepiride: 230 
Metformin + glimepiride: 114 
Insulin glargine + metformin + 
glimepiride: 232 
In response to Day 120 List of Questions: 
1797 
Total: 467 
Liraglutide 1.8 mg + OAD: 235 
Exenatide 20 µg + OAD: 232 
26 weeks 
Change in 
HbA1c after 26 
weeks 
26 weeks 
Change in 
HbA1c after 26 
weeks 
26 weeks 
Change in 
HbA1c after 26 
weeks 
Liraglutide 6 mg/mL (1.2 or 1.8 
mg/day, s.c., q.d.) 
Metformin tablets (2 g/day, 
p.o., b.i.d.) 
Rosiglitazone tablets (8 
mg/day, p.o., b.i.d.) 
No active control 
Liraglutide 6 mg/mL (1.8 
mg/day, s.c., q.d.) 
Metformin tablets (2 g/day, 
p.o., b.i.d.) 
Glimepiride tablets (4 mg/day, 
p.o., q.d.) 
Insulin glargine (100 IU/mL) 
(individual titration, s.c., q.d.) 
Liraglutide 6 mg/mL (1.8 
mg/day, s.c., q.d.) 
Exenatide 10 µg/dose 
(20 µg/day, s.c., b.i.d) 
Metformin tablets (prestudy 
dose level to be kept throughout 
trial) 
Sulfonylurea tablets (pre-study 
dose level could be reduced to 
no less than 50%) 
1573  
Liraglutide Effect and Action in Diabetes (LEAD 3): Effect on glycaemic control of liraglutide versus 
glimepiride in type 2 diabetes.  
Conducted at 138 sites in the US and Mexico. 
Study period: 7 February 2006 - 2 November 2007  
1572 
Liraglutide  Effect  and  Action  in  Diabetes  (LEAD-2):  Effect  on  glycaemic  control  after  once  daily 
administration  of  liraglutide  in  combination  with  metformin  versus  metformin  monotherapy  versus 
metformin and glimepiride combination therapy in subjects with type 2 diabetes.  
Conducted at 170 centres in 21 countries, mainly in Europe as well as in Croatia, Australia, Russia, 
South Africa, India, New Zealand, Argentina.  
Study period: 30 May 2006 to 04 May 2007 
1436 
Liraglutide  Effect  and  Action  in  Diabetes  (LEAD-1):  Effect  on  glycaemic  control  after  once  daily 
administration of liraglutide in combination with glimepiride versus glimepiride monotherapy versus 
glimepiride and rosiglitazone combination therapy in subjects with type 2 diabetes.  
Conducted  at  116  centers  in  Europe,  Turkey,  Croatia,  Switzerland,  Argentina,  Hong  Kong,  India, 
Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, and South Africa.  
Study period: 29 May 2006 to 07 May 2007 
1574 
Liraglutide  Effect  and  Action  in  Diabetes  (LEAD  4):  Effect  on  glycaemic  control  of  liraglutide  in 
combination with rosiglitazone plus metformin versus rosiglitazone plus metformin in type 2 diabetes.  
Conducted at 96 centers in USA and Canada.  
Study period: 30 May 2006 to 14 August 2007 
1697 
Liraglutide  Effect  and  Action  in  Diabetes  (LEAD-5):  Effects  on  glycaemic  control  after  once  daily 
administration  of  liraglutide  in  combination  with  glimepiride  and  metformin  versus  glimepiride  and 
Page 23 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metformin  combination  therapy,  and  versus  insulin  glargine  added  to  glimepiride  and  metformin 
combination therapy in subjects with type 2 diabetes. 
Conducted  at  107  centers  in  17  countries  in  Europe  as  well  as  Russia,  Serbia  and  Montenegro, 
Argentina, India, Philippines, and South Africa. 
Study period: 30 May 2006 to 20 April 2007 
1797 
Liraglutide  Effect  and  Action  in  Diabetes  (LEAD-6):  Effect  on  glycaemic  control  of  liraglutide  or 
exenatide  added  to  metformin,  sulphonylurea  or  a  combination  of  both  in  subjects  with  type  2 
diabetes. 
Conducted  at  133  centers  in  15  countries  in  Europe  as  well  as  Switzerland,  The  Former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, and the USA. 
Study period: 24 August 2007 to 9 April 2008 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
All the  trials  were  similar in  design.  Subjects  with type  2  DM, aged  between 18  and  80  years  were 
included and stratified with respect to previous diabetes treatment.  
Most of the subject selection criteria were the same in all trials.  
With respect to previous antidiabetic therapy and baseline HbA1c, the inclusion criteria differed among 
trials, reflecting the different treatment combinations being studied: 
•  Trial  1573  included  subjects  treated  with  diet/exercise  or  one  OAD  for  at  least  two  months.  If 
treated  with  an  OAD  (sulphonylureas,  meglitinides,  amino  acid  derivatives,  biguanides, 
alphaglucosidase inhibitors or thiazolidinediones), the dose was to be no more than half maximal 
dose,  except  subjects  previously  treated  with  metformin  (≤1500  mg)  or  pioglitazone  (≤30  mg). 
HbA1c at screening was to be in the range 7.0–11.0% for subjects on diet/exercise treatment and 
7.0–10.0% for subjects on OAD therapy. 
•  Trials  1572  and  1436  included  subjects  treated  with  OAD(s)  for  at  least  3  months.  HbA1c  at 
screening was to be in the range 7.0–11.0% for subjects on OAD monotherapy and 7.0–10.0% for 
subjects on OAD combination therapy. 
•  Trial 1574 included subjects treated with OAD(s) and/or exenatide for at least 3 months. HbA1c at 
screening  was  to  be  in  the  range  7.0–11.0%  for  subjects  on  OAD  monotherapy  or  exenatide 
therapy  alone  and  7.0–10.0%  for  subjects  on  combination  therapy  including  OADs  and/or 
exenatide. 
•  Trial 1697 included subjects treated with OAD(s) for at least 3 months. HbA1c at screening was to 
be in the range 7.5–10.0% for subjects on OAD monotherapy and 7.0–10.0% for subjects on OAD 
combination therapy. 
•  Trial 1797 included subjects treated with metformin, SU or a combination for at least 3 months on 
maximally  tolerated  doses.  HbA1c  at  screening  was  to  be  in  the  range  of  7.0-11.0%  (both 
inclusive). 
Patients on insulin therapy and with renal or liver dysfunction or with active cardiovascular disease 
including history of myocardial infarction within the past 6 months and/or heart failure (New York 
Heart Association class III and IV) were among the exclusion criteria. 
Treatments 
Three liraglutide doses (0.6, 1.2 and 1.8 mg) were evaluated in Trials 1572 and 1436, whereas Trials 
1573  and  1574  investigated  the  two  proposed  therapeutic  doses,  1.2  and  1.8  mg  and  Trial  1697 
investigated only the 1.8 mg dose. Study 1797 only investigated the 1.8 mg dose. In order to mitigate 
GI  symptoms  related  to  initiation  of  treatment  at  higher  doses,  a  step-wise  titration  scheme  was 
employed. All subjects initiated treatment at liraglutide 0.6 mg, increasing to 1.2 mg after one week 
and  to  1.8  mg  after  one  additional  week,  according  to  the  dose  level  they  were  randomised  to. 
Administration could be at any time of the day. Still, subjects were encouraged to inject liraglutide at 
the same time of the day during the whole treatment period.  
Trial 1573 was extended to a total of 5 years and Trial 1572 was extended to a total of 2 years. Trial 
1573 is still ongoing. 
Page 24 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
The chosen dosing of the comparators in study 1573, in 1697 and in 1436 was questioned during the 
assessment.  Glimepiride  8  mg  was  used  as  comparator  in  1573  (see  Clinical  safety,  section 
Hypoglycaemic episodes). 
For insulin glargine in study 1697 the treatment was titrated twice weekly for the first 8 weeks. There 
after  the  fasting  plasma  glucose  (FPG)  was  to  be  measured  and  the  dose  of  insulin  glargine  to  be 
potentially revised at least at visits 8 (week 12) and 9 (week 18) but otherwise at the discretion of the 
investigator.  Evidence  was  provided  to  support  that  effective  dose  titration  (AT.LANTUS  treatment 
algorithm)  of  insulin  glargine  was  undertaken  in  trial  1697.  This  titration  algorithm  is  reflected  in 
section 5.1 of the SPC. 
The dose of rosiglitazone in trial 1436 was 4 mg daily, a rather low dose. In Trial 1574 the maximal 
dose of 8mg/day rosiglitazone was used. Therefore, the comparison with rosiglitazone should be made 
keeping in mind the fact that the dose in Trial 1436 was low, while the dose in trial 1574 was the right 
one for Europe (see Results section). 
in 
the 
investigation  of  medicinal  products 
The trial designs are not in line with the design recommended in the CHMP “Note for guidance on 
clinical 
treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus” 
(CHMP/EWP1080/00). According to the guideline add-on studies should be carried out by adding the 
new  drug  to  non-responders  of  the  first  drug  which  is  not  the  case  in  the  present  trials.  The  study 
design  for  trials  1572,  1436,  and  1574  represented  a  switch-over  scenario  for  a  large  portion  of 
included  subjects  rather  than  an  add-on  scenario.  Furthermore  the  guideline  states,  that  it  would  be 
desirable to select patients who did not need any change or adjustment in previous medication during 
the 8-12 weeks preceding the study to ensure that the maximal effect of the previous medication has 
been  observed  and  that  HbA1c  is  stabilised  at  baseline.  In  the  present  studies  patients  with  elevated 
HbA1c  at  inclusion  and  elevated  FPG  at  randomisation  could  have  been  treated  with  any  OAD(s) 
previously.  In  response to this  concern a  post-hoc  analyses as  well  as supportive  efficacy  data  from 
study 1797 were provided that supported that the switch-over trial design had no major impact on the 
results of HbA1c change, in view of which the issue was regarded as resolved. 
Objectives and endpoints 
The primary objective of the therapeutic confirmatory trials was to assess the effect of liraglutide on 
glycaemic  control  as  measured  by  change  in  HbA1c  in  subjects  with  type  2  DM.  Change  in  body 
weight was a key secondary endpoint in all trials. Other secondary endpoints were FPG, postprandial 
glucose and blood pressure. 
Safety endpoints were: 
- 
- 
-  safety and tolerability of liraglutide in combination with glimepiride and metformin (1697)/ 
incidence of hypoglycaemic episodes 
formation of liraglutide and exenatide (study 1797) antibodies 
glimepiride (1436)/ metformin (1572) 
Sample size 
The sample size calculations were based on standard normal theory. For change from baseline HbA1c, 
the non-inferiority margin was set 0.4% and the difference to detect superiority against placebo was 
set to 0.5% and a standard deviation 1.2 or 1.3%. For body weight, a CV of 3% was assumed (based 
on liraglutide phase 2 trials) and the difference to detect was set to 3%. A combined power (calculated 
as the product of the marginal powers for HbA1c and weight) of at least 85% was required. Drop-out 
rates of 25% or 30% were accounted for.  
Randomisation and blinding 
In  Trials  1573  and  1574  randomisation  was  1:1:1.  In  Trial  1797  patients  were  randomized  in  a  1:1 
manner. In Trials 1572 and 1436 it was 2:2:2:1:2 and in Trial 1697 it was 2:1:2. The latter three trials 
had  half  the  number  of  subjects  in  the  placebo  treatment  arms  in  order  to  maximise  exposure  to 
liraglutide and the active comparator drug while maintaining statistical integrity. 
Page 25 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All trials except study 1797 were double-blind with regard to liraglutide treatment (active or placebo). 
For the active comparators in Trials 1573, 1572 and 1436, blinding was ensured by applying a double-
dummy  technique  (i.e.  administering  active  treatment/placebo  for  both  liraglutide  and  the  active 
comparator). The active comparator in Trial 1697, insulin glargine, was administered open-label. The 
OAD treatments administered in all treatment arms within a trial were given open-label. 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  objective  of  the  therapeutic  confirmatory  trials  was  to  demonstrate  that  glycaemic 
control, measured by change from baseline in HbA1c, achieved with liraglutide treatment was superior 
to placebo treatment (not applicable for Trials 1573 and 1797) and non-inferior to the comparator (not 
applicable for Trial 1574), with a non-inferiority margin of 0.4%. If non-inferiority compared to the 
active comparator was demonstrated, superiority to the comparator treatment was tested.  
Superiority/non-inferiority  were  tested  at  2.5%  significance  level  using  the  95%  confidence  interval 
(CI) for the appropriate difference: if 95% CI upper limit for the decrease of HbA1c is below 0% or 
0.4%, superiority or non-inferiority is claimed, respectively. 
The  differences  between  treatments  in  primary  and  other  endpoints  were  estimated  using  an 
ANCOVA  model  with  treatment,  country  and  previous  antidiabetic  treatment  as  fixed  effects  and 
baseline (if applicable) as covariate. 
The type I error for testing 1) superiority against placebo and 2) non-inferiority against comparator is 
protected at 2.5% because 2) is only declared if 1) and 2) are significant.  
Switching from non-inferiority to superiority for the comparison with comparator is a closed testing 
procedure and therefore protects the type I error.  
As  more  than  one  dose  level  of  liraglutide  was  investigated,  hypothesis  testing  was  performed 
hierarchically (pre-defined sequence) for descending doses of liraglutide in order to protect the family 
wise type I error. To this end, hierarchical testing or an extension of this (Edwards et al. Statistics in 
Medicine,  2007,  26,  p.5116-5124)  was  used.  The  handling  of  multiplicity  was  considered  well-
planned and performed 
Efficacy  analyses  were  based  on  the  ITT  analysis  set  (all  subjects  randomised  and  exposed  to 
treatment). No interim analyses were planned or performed. A safety committee monitored the trial.  
Missing data were imputed using the last observation carried forward (LOCF). A completers analysis 
was  used  as  sensitivity  analysis.  No  other  method  for  imputating  missing  data  was  planned  as  a 
sensitivity  analysis.  During  the  assessment  it  was  is  unclear  whether  subjects  withdrawn  due  to 
ineffective  therapy  received  rescue  medication,  and  if  withdrawn  subjects  were  still  monitored  after 
their withdrawal. To assess the sensitivity of the results different sensitivity analyses were requested 
showing that the primary analysis (ANCOVA with LOCF) was acceptable. 
The changes made to the analysis plan are considered non-essential. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
In  the  five  long-term  therapeutic  confirmatory  trials  (1573,  1572,  1436,  1574  and  1697),  a  total  of 
3992  subjects  were  randomized,  3987  were  exposed  to  treatment  and  3190  completed.  Of  the  3987 
subjects  exposed,  2501  were  exposed  to  liraglutide  and  of  these  2041  completed.  Most  of  the 
withdrawals in the liraglutide treatment groups occurred in the first 1–3 months.  
Numbers of patients in the placebo group are smaller than in active treatment groups. This has been 
done in order to maximise exposure to liraglutide and the active comparator. The liraglutide 0.6 mg 
group is also relatively small, but this dose is not submitted for registration. Percentages of subjects 
who  completed  the  trials  differed  somewhat  between  trials,  but  are  acceptable.  There  were  less 
completers  in  the  placebo  group  compared  to  the  liraglutide  groups  and  active  comparators  due  to 
ineffective therapy. 
The following table shows the subject disposition of the trials. 
Page 26 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject disposition in the five confirmatory trials (trial 1573, 1572, 1436, 1574 and 1697) 
In study 1797 a total of 663 subjects were screened, and 464 randomised: 233 to liraglutide+OAD and 
231 to exenatide+OAD. There were 33 (14%) and 45 (19.4%) withdrawals in the liraglutide group and 
exenatide group respectively. Most common reasons for withdrawal were adverse events: 23 (9.8%) 
and 31 (13.4%) respectively in the liraglutide and exenatide groups. 
Page 27 of 49 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
Protocol amendments were made to all studies during their conduct, none of them however influenced 
the quality of the study or the results in a negative way.  
Baseline data 
The  treatment  arms  within  each  trial  were  generally  well  matched  with  regard  to  baseline 
demographics. Mean age was approximately 55 years, ranging from 19–80 years. Mean body weight 
ranged  from  approximately  80–100  kg.  Trial  1436  had  a  relatively  high  percentage  of  subjects  of 
Asian  origin  which  explains  why  mean  body  weight  at  baseline  was  slightly  lower  in  this  trial 
(approximately  82  kg)  compared  with  the  remaining  trials  (approximately  85–95  kg).  Mean  BMI 
ranged from approximately 30 to 35 kg/m2. Treatment groups were not stratified by gender in any of 
the trials, but men and women were generally equally distributed in all trials. 
The distribution of race was generally comparable among treatment groups within each trial. Within 
trials,  all  baseline  diabetes  characteristics  were  generally  comparable  among  treatment  groups  in  all 
the therapeutic confirmatory and exploratory trials.  
Overall,  the  majority  of  subjects  in  the  therapeutic  confirmatory  trials  had  been  treated  with  OAD 
mono- or combination therapy for at least 3 months before entering the trial. An exception was Trial 
1573,  in  which  subjects  had  previously  been  treated  with  either  diet  and  exercise  (36%)  or  OAD 
monotherapy (64%) for at least 2 months. 
Between  trials,  duration  of  diabetes  was  different,  as  expected  duration  was  shorter  in  the 
monotherapy trial and longer in the triple therapy trial. 
Outcomes and estimation 
HbA1c 
Change in HbA1c was the primary endpoint in all studies. The following figure provides an overview 
of estimated mean change in HbA1c over time for the five main long-term studies. 
Estimated Mean Change in HbA1c Over Time (± 2 SEM) – Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials. Note the 
difference in X-axis for trial 1573 
Page 28 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following figure provides an overview of the treatment comparisons with the active comparator 
and placebo. 
Forest  Plot  of  HbA1c  (%)  Analysis,  Estimated  Mean  Difference  ±  95%CI  –Therapeutic  Confirmatory 
Trials (LOCF, ITT Analysis Set) 
The following  table  presents  the  analysis  of  change  in  HbA1c  from  baseline.  Used  as  monotherapy 
(trial 1573), liraglutide 1.2 and 1.8 mg was more effective than glimepiride 8 mg daily, although this 
dose of 8 mg glimepiride is high for Europe. In addition, liraglutide 1.8 mg resulted in significantly 
Page 29 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lower HbA1c values compared to liraglutide 1.2 mg. A comparison with metformin would have been 
preferred as metformin is currently the first choice of treatment in type 2 DM.   
(trial 
therapy, 
in  dual 
1436)  was  more 
liraglutide+metformin 
liraglutide+glimepiride 
(trial  1572)  was  equally  effective  as 
Given 
metformin+glimepiride; 
than 
glimepiride+rosiglitazone.  The  dose  of  rosiglitazone  in  this  trial  (4mg)  was  rather  low.  It  is 
acknowledged  that  the  highest  approved  dose  could  not  be  exceeded  in  the  participating  countries, 
which is 4mg in some countries. However, for rosiglitazone a dose-response was clearly demonstrated 
as greater decreases in HbA1c and FPG were observed at the 8 mg rosiglitazone dose compared to the 
4  mg  dose.  The  dose  of  rosiglitazone  however  was  considered  low;  in  which  case  the  safety  of 
rosiglitazone arm may have been enhanced, but the efficacy may also have been decreased. This issue 
is  resolved  by  SPC  changes.  The  duration  of  the  trial  was  also  rather  short  (26  weeks)  taking  into 
account that the efficacy of rosiglitazone is expected to be more pronounced after one year, therefore 
limiting  conclusions.  It  should  be  noted that  dual  therapy  when  added  to  rosiglitazone  has  not  been 
studied.  In  trials  1572  and  1436  no  difference  was  observed  between  liraglutide  1.8  and  1.2  mg. 
Liraglutide 1.2 mg lowered HbA1c significantly more than treatment with liraglutide 0.6 mg. 
effective 
The initially claimed indication of liraglutide as add-on therapy to a thiazolidinedione was based on an 
extrapolation  of  efficacy  and  safety  data  from  trial  1572  and  trial  1574,  and  that  the  efficacy  of 
liraglutide  was  independent  of  metformin  being  part  of  the  background  antidiabetic  therapy.  This 
extrapolation  was  not  considered  correct.  Furthermore,  study  populations  differed  with  respect  to 
duration  of  diabetes  and  background  anti-diabetic  treatment.  In  view  of  these  points  this  indication 
was not granted.  
In  triple  therapy  liraglutide+metformin+rosiglitazone  (trial  1574)  was  more  effective  than  dual 
therapy with metformin+rosiglitazone. Here again, there was no difference in effect between the two 
liraglutide doses. The combination of liraglutide+metformin+glimepiride (trial 1679) resulted in lower 
HbA1c values than insulin+ metformin+glimepiride. 
Analysis of HbA1c (%) Change from Baseline – Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials (LOCF, ITT Analysis 
Set) 
Page 30 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The percentages of subjects who reached the pre-defined ADA target for HbA1c (<7%) are shown in 
following  table.  This  effect  was  most  pronounced  in  subjects  previously  treated  with  diet/exercise 
(Trial 1573) or one OAD (Trials 1572 and 1436) at entry into the trial. 
Percentage of Subjects Achieving ADA Target (HbA1c <7%) – Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials (LOCF, 
ITT Analysis Set) 
Long-term data (2-year) were submitted in response to Day 180 List of Outstanding Issues for Trial 
1573  (monotherapy)  and  1572  (add-on  to  metformin).  Results  of  trial  1572  are  shown  in  the  figure 
below.  HbA1c  increases  after  20  weeks.  However,  the  difference  between  the  liraglutide  groups 
compared to the control is persistent. 
HbA1c Mean HbA1c by Treatment and Week (LOCF), Trial 1572, ITT Population 
Data  was  provided  showing  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  HbA1c  lowering  effect  of 
liraglutide  1.2mg  and  1.8mg  when  administered  in  the  morning  vs.  in  the  evening  as  the  preferred 
dosing time. However, it is preferable that Victoza is injected around the same time of the day, when 
the most convenient time of the day has been chosen; this is reflected in section 4.2 of the SPC. 
Page 31 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Separate efficacy results for patients on previous combination OADs (dual and triple or more OADs) 
for  study  1697  were  requested  by  the  CHMP.  In  this  study  84%  (N=486)  of  the  subjects  were 
previously  treated  with  a  dual  OAD  combination  therapy  and  10%  (N=57)  were  previously  treated 
with  OAD  combination  therapy  of  3  or  more  OADs.  The  percentage  of  subjects  on  previous  OAD 
monotherapy,  dual  OAD  therapy  or  triple  OAD  therapy  was  comparable  across  the  three  treatment 
groups with the majority of patients on previous dual therapy. As expected, the HbA1c improvements 
for patients on previous triple therapy were less than for dual therapy patients for the active treatment 
groups  and  a  slight  rise  was  noted  for  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  No  significant  differences  in 
HbA1c  improvement  were  noted  between  liraglutide  and  placebo  and  liraglutide  and  active 
comparator, respectively, in the few previous monotherapy patients.  
Fasting plasma glucose  
In  all  five  long-term  therapeutic  confirmatory  trials,  treatment  with  liraglutide  (alone  or  in 
combination with one or two OADs) led to a lowering of FPG ranging from 0.72 to 2.42 mmol/L (13–
44 mg/dL) within the first 2–4 weeks of treatment. Baseline values were around 9–10 mmol/L (162–
180 mg/dL). The decrease in FPG was maintained throughout the treatment period. The comparisons 
to  placebo  (not  applicable  to  trial  1573)  were  significantly  in  favour  of  liraglutide,  whereas  the 
analysis against comparators (not applicable for trial 1574) only showed significance for trial 1573 and 
trial 1436 (liraglutide 1.2 and 1.8 mg). 
Body Weight 
Treatment with liraglutide as monotherapy or in combination with one or two OADs induced weight 
loss within the first 8 weeks of treatment which overall was maintained for the rest of the treatment 
period. Weight loss was highest in the monotherapy trial (1573) and add-on to metformin trial (1572), 
with a mean loss of 2-2.5 kg. A potential relationship between the observed weight loss and prolonged 
duration of nausea was investigated by analysis of the change in body weight by different durations 
and onsets of nausea. It was concluded that no relationship was found between the occurrence of GI 
events, their duration and the change in body weight.  
Beta cell function 
The  effect of liraglutide  on  beta-cell function  and  insulin  sensitivity  was  examined  by  means  of  the 
homeostasis model assessment index of beta-cell function (HOMA-B), homeostasis model assessment 
index  of  insulin  resistance  (HOMA-IR)  and  measurement  of  pro-insulin.  However,  these  are 
inadequate measures (the HOMA-IR is a measure of insulin resistance and not insulin secretion). For a 
reliable  evaluation  of  the  impact  on  the  pancreatic  beta-cell  function  dynamic  estimates  from  an 
intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) or clamps would be necessary. In some studies significant 
effects were observed, but in general changes were small and results influenced by the choice of the 
comparator or baseline therapy. In response to this concern data from phase 1 and 2 studies as well as 
from study 1573 (monotherapy) was provided, suggesting that liraglutide improves beta-cell function, 
however, this data was considered limited and not to have been substantiated by robust and reliable 
results  from  the  5  long-term  phase  III  trials.  The  results  are  difficult  to  interpret  and  measures 
inadequate for final conclusions on the effect of liraglutide on the progression of the disease. 
Gastric emptying 
A minor delay in the postprandial rate of gastric emptying was observed at liraglutide dose of 0.9 mg 
and above.  
Due  to  the  risk  of  delayed  gastric  emptying  section  4.5  of  the  SPC  includes  a  warning  regarding  a 
potential interaction with active substances with poor solubility or with narrow therapeutic index such 
as warfarin. This warning includes a recommendation to monitor INR more frequently upon initiation 
of liraglutide treatment. 
Ancillary analyses 
•  Analysis performed across trials  
To assess whether demographic factors played a role in the therapeutic confirmatory trials, statistical 
tests for interaction on glycaemic response as measured by HbA1c  were performed among treatment 
and different baseline demographic characteristics. The analyses were carried out on both data from 
Page 32 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the individual trial as well as on pooled data from the four 26-weeks combination therapy trials (Trials 
1572, 1436, 1574 and 1697). 
The  difference  among  treatments in  glycaemic  response  did  not  depend  on  gender or  age,  ethnicity, 
race, BMI, body weight (except trial 1436). For subjects above 90 kg change in HbA1c was larger with 
increasing  liraglutide  dose,  demonstrating  an  advantage  with  the  highest  dose  of  1.8  mg  for  these 
subjects when used in combination with glimepiride. It should be noted that only approximately 1/3 of 
the subjects had a body weight above 90 kg.  
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies in special populations have been submitted.  
It was demonstrated that in patients with impaired renal and hepatic function, exposure of liraglutide 
in these groups of patients is reduced by 14-33% and 13-44% respectively. 
Hepatic impairment (defined as ALAT levels ≥ 2.5 times ULN) was an exclusion criterion in the 5 
confirmatory studies. In spite of this, 312 subjects with ALAT levels >UNR were included in the long-
term trials. Efficacy data were provided for these patients. However, ALAT has limitations as regards 
to  categorising  patients  as  having  mild,  moderate  or  severe  hepatic  impairment.  In  addition,  no 
differentiation  was  made  as  to  whether  the  elevated  ALAT-levels  were  due  to  acute  or  chronic 
alterations. 
Child-Pugh scoring system was applied (post-hoc) to the 312 subjects, as two out of the five Child-
Pugh parameters were systematically collected as part of the long-term clinical trials namely albumin 
and bilirubin. Ten subjects were identified to have mild hepatic impairment; however, the score could 
also have been moderate. It is concluded that the use of liraglutide in patients with any degree of 
hepatic impairment can currently not be recommended. 
Renal  impairment  was  also  an  exclusion  criterion,  defined  by  serum  creatinine,  in  the  five 
confirmatory trials. Nevertheless, when evaluating estimated creatinine clearance using the Cockroft-
Gault formula, 659 patients with mild or moderate decreased renal function appeared to be included.  
As regards efficacy (change in HbA1c) of liraglutide in patients with mild renal impairment sufficient 
data has been presented to support the use of liraglutide in this patient group. The change in HbA1c in 
liraglutide  treated  patients  with  mild  renal  impairment  was  similar  to  the  change  observed  in  the 
overall  liraglutide  treated  population.  No  dose  adjustment  is  required  for  patients  with  mild  renal 
impairment  (creatinine  clearance  ≤  60-90  mL/min).  There  is  very  limited  therapeutic  experience  in 
patients  with  moderate renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance  of  30-59  mL/min)  and  no  therapeutic 
experience in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance below 30 mL/min). 
Data was provided for age groups (<60, >60, >70, >75). Results on HbA1c were comparable between 
age groups, but an increase in total adverse event rate was seen in the liraglutide group while no such 
an  increase  was  observed  in  the  active  comparator  group  and  total  comparator  group  (see  safety 
section). In addition, the number of patients > 75 years of age was very low. 
•  Supportive studies 
In addition to the therapeutic confirmatory trials, six therapeutic exploratory trials (Trials 1571, 1310, 
1333,  2072,  1499  and  1334  (Japan)  provide  additional  efficacy  and  safety  data  (see  Dose  response 
studies). These trials investigated the efficacy and mechanism of actions of liraglutide in subjects with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus treated up to 14 weeks. The primary endpoints were to evaluate the effect and 
dose-response  relationship  of  liraglutide  on  glycaemic  control  and/or  body  weight.  Secondary 
endpoints included in these trials were change in FPG or fasting serum glucose (FSG), and pancreatic 
beta-cell function and insulin sensitivity. 
Baseline demographics 
In the therapeutic exploratory trials 1571, 1310, and 1333, all or close to 100% of the subjects were 
White/Caucasian.  In  Trial  2072,  approximately  80%  of  subjects  were  White/Caucasian  and  the 
remaining were of Black or Hispanic origin. In Trial 1499, the majority (86%) of subjects were White. 
In Trial 1334 all subjects were Japanese. 
Page 33 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline diabetes characteristics 
The  majority  of  subjects  had  previously  been  treated  with  OAD  mono-  or  combination  therapy.  In 
Trials  1571  and  1310  a  fraction  of  the  subjects  (19%  and  18%,  respectively)  had  previously  been 
treated with diet and exercise, whereas in Trial 1334 (Japanese) this population constituted 54% of the 
subjects. 
Subjects disposition and analysis of withdrawals 
All  trials  had  a  high  completion  rate.  The  overall  number  of  withdrawals  within  each  trial  was 
generally comparable among treatment groups. The majority of withdrawals in the liraglutide groups 
occurred  in  the  beginning  of  the  treatment  period  and  were  due  primarily  to  ‘Other’  reasons  or 
‘Adverse  events’,  primarily  GI  adverse  events.  In  the  trials  that  investigated  lower  dose  levels  of 
liraglutide  (0.045–0.6  mg,  Trials  1310  and  2072)  withdrawals due  to  ‘Ineffective  therapy’  increased 
with  lower  dose  level.  In  OAD  treated  groups  the  primary  reason  for  withdrawal  was  ‘Ineffective 
therapy’. 
HbA1c 
Glycaemic control was investigated. In these phase 2 trials the duration of treatment ranged from 5 to 
14  weeks  and  liraglutide  dose  levels  ranged  from  0.045  to  2.0  mg.  Five  trials  evaluated  liraglutide 
monotherapy. Trial 1499, in addition to liraglutide monotherapy, also evaluated the combination with 
metformin.  
Trial 1571 showed that 14 weeks of liraglutide monotherapy at doses 0.65, 1.25 or 1.9 mg resulted in a 
decrease  in  HbA1c  statistically  significantly  different  from  the  increase  in  HbA1c  observed  in  the 
placebo group. 
Trials 1310 and 2072 evaluated monotherapy in the dose range 0.045–0.75 mg. In Trial 1310 the two 
highest liraglutide dose levels (0.6 and 0.75 mg) resulted in a glycaemic control comparable to that of 
glimepiride (1-4 mg/day). In trial 2072 the three highest liraglutide dose levels (0.45, 0.6 and 0.75 mg) 
resulted in a glycaemic control comparable to that of metformin (1000 mg/day). 
In Trial 1333, 8 weeks of liraglutide 0.6 mg monotherapy resulted in a decrease in HbA1c significantly 
different from the increase in HbA1c with placebo (p=0.0281). 
In Trial 1334 (Japanese), 14 weeks of treatment with liraglutide at the dose levels 0.1, 0.3, 0.6 and 0.9 
mg  was  found  to  lower  HbA1c  in  a  linear  fashion  where  HbA1c  decreased  with  increasing  doses  of 
liraglutide (p<0.0001).  
Five weeks of treatment with liraglutide, individually dosed in the range 0.5–2.0 mg, in combination 
with metformin (Trial 1499) was shown to improve HbA1c more than metformin alone (p<0.0001).  
Change in Body Weight 
Liraglutide at doses of 0.6 mg or above induced a weight loss ranging from -0.6 to -3.0 kg, depending 
on the dose. The weight loss observed with lower doses of liraglutide was limited and not consistent 
among trials. In the Japanese trial, change in body weight was evaluated after 14 weeks of treatment 
with liraglutide at doses of 0.1, 0.3, 0.6 and 0.9 mg. In this trial no change in body weight was seen in 
any  of  the  liraglutide  treatment  groups  compared  with  placebo.  It  should  be  noted,  however,  that 
baseline body weight was low (63 kg) for these Japanese subjects. 
It  is  concluded  that  the  liraglutide  dose  and  treatment  duration  is  relative  low  in  these  therapeutic 
exploratory trials. Results of monotherapy with higher liraglutide dose support the findings on HbA1c 
reduction, body weight and beta cell function from the therapeutic exploratory studies. 
Clinical safety 
All safety data initially available for trials with completed statistical analysis up to 31 Jan 2008 was 
included  in  the  safety  evaluation.  Data  from  trial  1797  were  not  quantitatively  incorporated  in  the 
overall safety evaluation. 
Page 34 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At  Day  121  the  data  initially  submitted  was  updated  with  the  120-day  Safety  Update  from  the  US 
Regulatory  approval  process.  Data  from  26-week  OAD  add-on  study  vs.  exenatide  (1797)  was  also 
submitted  at  D121.  At  Day  181  2-year  efficacy  and  safety  data  from  Trials  1572  and  1573  was 
provided.  For  thyroid  and  neoplasm  adverse  events,  the  original  pooled  clinical  safety  dataset  on 
thyroid disorders and neoplasm disorders was updated with a cut-off date 1 December 2008.   
The conclusions from the updated safety data do not change the conclusions derived from the original 
safety assessment.  
•  Patient exposure 
During  the  liraglutide  clinical  development  programme  in  the  original  Marketing  Authorisation 
Application 4211 subjects were exposed to liraglutide, 1122 subjects to placebo, and 1165 subjects to 
an active comparator. The majority of the subjects exposed to liraglutide had T2DM (79%) and most 
of these were from the long-term (therapeutic confirmatory) trials. 70–80% of the randomised subjects 
completed these trials. 2085, 840, and 497 subjects were treated with liraglutide for at least 24, 50, and 
76 weeks, respectively.  
Based on the cut-off date for the updates submitted at Day 121 and Day 181, 1 December 2008, 5076 
subjects  were  exposed  to  liraglutide,  1210  subjects  to  placebo,  and  1529  subjects  to  an  active 
comparator.  Of  these,  4631  were  subjects  with  type 2  diabetes  exposed  in the  long-term  therapeutic 
confirmatory  trials  (liraglutide:  2922  subjects,  placebo:  524  subjects  and  active  comparator:  1185 
subjects).  
Exposure by dose in the long-term trials is presented in the below table. 
Subject exposure – Long term trials 
Updated with Trial 1797 and with 2-year Data for Trials 1573 and 1572 and Trial 1797 
Trial 1573  
Trial 1572  
Trial 1797  
Total    
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————
—————— 
¤ Exp: Subject years of exposure is defined as duration of exposure divided by 365.25. 
248 (304.1) 
242 (343.1)   240 (337.4)   242 (324.1)   121 (109.6)   242 (328.6) 
232 (101.5) 
121 (109.6)   722 (734.2) 
242 (343.1)   491 (662.6)   723 (761)  
251 (325.2)   246 (329.2)    
235 (107.7)    
Overall,  788  subjects  withdrew  for  the  following  reasons:  AEs  (228  subjects),  non-compliance  (81 
subjects), and ineffective therapy (240 subjects) or for ‘other’ reasons (239 subjects).  
In trial 1573 the withdrawal rate due to “other reasons” was very high. However, the numbers were 
roughly comparable across the treatment groups and no preponderance for any of the reasons seems 
evident for liraglutide. 
•  Adverse events  
The  most  frequent  reasons  for  withdrawal  were  AEs  (7%)  in  the  liraglutide  group  and  ineffective 
therapy (17%) in the placebo group.  
Generally,  the  majority  of  AEs  were  mild  and  <10% of  subjects in  the  long-term  trials  experienced 
severe  adverse  events.  Within  the  different  severity  categories  (mild,  moderate,  severe)  the  overall 
picture was similar.  
The overall AE rates and withdrawals due to AEs were higher in the higher liraglutide vs lower dose 
groups. There were more subjects reporting AEs in the liraglutide groups (especially 1.2 and 1.8mg) 
Page 35 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared to placebo and active comparator. This is also seen in the severity rates: proportion and rates 
are higher in the 1.2 and 1.8mg liraglutide groups compared to placebo and active comparator. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
During  the  clinical  development  programme  8  deaths  (liraglutide:  3;  comparators:  3;  pre-
randomisation: 2) were reported as of the clinical cut-off date (31 Jan 2008). All deaths were reported 
in long-term trials. Two deaths in Trials 1697 and 1572 were reported after completion of the trials 
and one death was reported in the ongoing Trial 1700. All deaths were assessed as unlikely related to 
the treatment regimen, except in one case (renal cell carcinoma, subject treated with liraglutide 1.8 mg 
+ glimepiride + metformin). The investigator reported ‘underlying disease’ as an alternative aetiology 
to the renal cell carcinoma. No deaths were reported up until 21 Feb 2008 in the ongoing extension 
trials (Trials 1573 and 1572), however 2 deaths were reported in study 1572 after the cut-off date for 
the 120-Day Safety Update and were therefore not included previously (causes of death were reported 
as: acute renal failure and pyelonephritis (Subject 318018) and tuberculosis (Subject 393004)).  
In general the observed causes of deaths are not unexpected in a population with type 2 DM. 
Deaths during the initial liraglutide development programme 
The  total  rates  of  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  appeared lower  in  the  liraglutide  group  than  in  the 
non-liraglutide group (86.6 vs. 97.5 events per 1000 subject years of exposure, respectively). The rates 
of serious and the non-serious AEs, and the total AEs for thyroid, pancreatitis and immunogenicity are 
however higher in the liraglutide group than the non-liraglutide group. 
Based  on  long-term  trials, a  dose-dependency  of  SAEs  with  liraglutide  was  not  apparent  as the  rate 
decreased  from  liraglutide  0.6  mg  to  liraglutide  1.8  mg.  It  was  lower  as  compared  to  the  placebo 
group. 
The most frequently reported SAEs comparing liraglutide vs. non-liraglutide were: cardiac disorders 
(17.4 vs. 16.7 events per 1000 subject years of exposure), GI adverse events (10.7 vs. 10.5 events per 
1000  subject  years  of  exposure),  and  neoplasms  (8.9  vs.  5.3  events  per  1000  subject  years  of 
exposure).  
Frequently  reported  AEs  with  liraglutide  treatment  were  GI  adverse  events,  headache  and  upper 
respiratory  infection.  Important  potential  risks  have  been  selected  based  on  pre-clinical  experience 
with  liraglutide  (C-cell  carcinogenicity),  from  experience  with  another  drug  in  the  same  class 
(exenatide:  pancreatitis,  cardiac  events,  neoplasms  and  antibody  formation),  for  theoretical  reasons 
Page 36 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(antibody  formation,  immunogenicity,  injection  site  reactions)  and  from  clinical  trial  experience 
(pancreatitis, neoplasms, antibody formation). 
Gastrointestinal adverse events  
These were the most frequently reported adverse events with liraglutide treatment, and they seemed to 
be dose related. In the liraglutide group the AEs reported by most subjects were nausea (20 % in the 2 
high-dose  groups),  diarrhoea  (11-14%)  and  vomiting  (8%)  and  the  corresponding  numbers  for  the 
active  comparator  group  were  4.1%,  4.6%  and  1.3%,  respectively.  These  events  were  in  general 
transient.  
In combination with metformin more GI adverse events are seen.  
Headache and Upper Respiratory Tract Infection (influenza and nasopharyngitis) 
These events were equally distributed across all treatment groups. As headache and upper respiratory 
tract infection were commonly reported in the background population these events are not considered 
related to the treatment. 
C-Cell Carcinogenicity (Medullary thyroid cancer) 
A  total  of  12  thyroid  SAEs  were  reported  in  9  subjects  treated  with  liraglutide.  Four  of  these  were 
events of papillary thyroid cancer in 4 subjects. One papillary thyroid cancer was reported in a subject 
treated  with  comparators.  No  medullary  thyroid  cancers  (C-cell  origin)  were  reported.  In  the 
completed trials, the rate of papillary thyroid cancer appeared slightly higher in subjects treated with 
liraglutide (1.8 vs. 0.9 events per 1000 subject years).  
In one case, reported as thyroid neoplasm, diffuse C-cell hyperplasia was found after thyroidectomy, 
however  no  medullary  carcinoma  was  found.  This  subject  was  diagnosed  with  a  papillary 
microcarcinoma  (within  the  context  of  a  multinodal  goitre)  with  the  additional  diagnosis  of  C-cell 
hyperplasia  (CCH).  This  case  represents  the  first  report  of  CCH  in  the  clinical  development 
programme. This subject had a baseline calcium stimulation test that peaked at 90-95th percentile for 
females  in  the  substudy.  CCH  in  a  non-nodular  form  as  defined  by  an  increase  in  overall  C-cell 
numbers, is not an uncommon finding in human thyroid material, and identification requires a specific 
staining for C-cells. C-cell hyperplasia has been found in up to 33 % of autopsies of expected normal 
thyroid  glands.  Furthermore  CCH  has  been  observed  at  an  increased  frequency  in  connection  with 
papillary carcinomas. 
As described in non-clinical section, it has been concluded that the thyroid C-cell tumours induced in 
mice  and  rats  by  dosing  of  liraglutide  are  caused  by  a  non-genotoxic,  specific  receptor-mediated 
mechanism to which mice and rats are particularly sensitive and monkeys and humans are not. 
There  is  no  accurate  screening  tool  for  CCH  and  medullary  thyroid  carcinoma  (MTC).  Calcitonin 
looks  like  the  best  alternative.  Calcitonin  is  almost  exclusively  expressed  by  thyroid  C-cells  and  as 
such is a biomarker for increased C-cell activity. In humans with C-cell hyper- or neoplasia, both basal 
and  calcium  stimulated  calcitonin  levels  increase.  However,  routine  use  of  calcitonin  screening,  has 
not  been  formally  validated,  and  there  are  no  well-established  absolute  serum  cut-offs  for 
distinguishing between benign and malignant disease, or between CCH and MTC. 
In general, the calcitonin data provided were characterised by a large proportion of the values being 
below  the  lower  limit  of  quantification  (LLOQ,  0.7  ng/L)  and  calcitonin  levels  remained  below  the 
upper  normal  range  at  weeks  26/28  and  52,  whereas  a  substantial  number  of  calcitonin  values  had 
shifted to below LLOQ at week 76/78. There was a tendency for a shift in calcitonin levels towards a 
higher category (mainly within normal range) with liraglutide 1.8 mg compared to the other treatment 
groups at week 26/28, but there was no difference between the treatment groups at weeks 52 or 76/78. 
Baseline  calcitonin  values  were  comparable  between  treatment  groups.  In  all  treatment  groups,  a 
comparable  increase  in  calcitonin  from  baseline  to  week  26/28  was  observed  (both  females  and 
males).  
A repeated measurement analysis demonstrated that there was an increase in calcitonin in all treatment 
groups, but the estimated geometric means at end-of-trial were within the normal range for all groups.  
Significant differences between treatments were seen for liraglutide 1.2 mg  vs. placebo (Trial 1574) 
and liraglutide 1.8 mg vs. placebo (Trial 1697).  
Page 37 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The calcium stimulation test performed on a subset of subjects from long-term Trials 1573 and 1574 
did  not  show  any  significant  effect  of  treatment  with  liraglutide  on  stimulated  levels  of  calcitonin. 
Based on the  consolidated preclinical  and  clinical data  and  a  thorough review of  available  literature 
regarding use of monitoring for CCH and MTC by use of calcitonin and other methods, it is concluded 
that forced systematic use of a marker for screening CCH in patients would result in unnecessary and 
unwarranted medical evaluation potentially leading to adverse effects in otherwise healthy subjects. 
Neoplasms  
Based  on  the  pooled  long-term  trials,  neoplasms  appeared  at  higher  rates  in  particular  at  high 
liraglutide  doses  (12.9-26.2-20.6-11.3  and  6.8  events/1,000  subject  years  of  exposure  (SYE)  for 
liraglutide 0.6mg-1.2mg-1.8mg-placebo and active comparator). No dose-dependent relationship was 
observed.  Serious  neoplasms  were  more  frequently  reported  in  subjects  treated  with  liraglutide  as 
compared to non-liraglutide (8.9 vs. 5.3 events/1,000 SYE).  
A total of 32 malignant neoplasms (liraglutide: 24, non-liraglutide: 8) were identified in the completed 
and ongoing clinical trials. The rates of malignant neoplasms in all completed trials were comparable 
for liraglutide vs. non-liraglutide-treated subjects. The 32  malignant neoplasms included 5 events of 
thyroid related neoplasms (liraglutide: 4 subjects, comparator: 1 subject) and 6 cases of prostate cancer 
(liraglutide: 5 subjects and non-liraglutide: 1 subject). In 3 of the prostate cancers, medical history of 
prostatic hyperplasia or hypertrophy was reported. Apart from these cases, there did not appear to be a 
clustering in types of malignant neoplasms.  
During  the  assessment  the  need  for  further  discussion  regarding  the  occurrence  of  neoplasms  was 
considered of great importance and as such raised as a major objection in the Day 120 LoQ. After the 
review of the responses it was concluded that combining the preclinical and the clinical experience, 
available literature and background data, it is still not clear whether there is a direct carcinogenic or a 
growth promoting effect of liraglutide. Additionally there remained the problem that there are no long 
term  data  for  malignancies.  To  address  this,  the  original  pooled  clinical  safety  dataset  on  thyroid 
disorders and neoplasm disorders was updated with a cut-off date 1 December 2008 was submitted. 
From this update it was considered that the updated rates of all neoplasms, malignant and benign 
neoplasms are similar to the data previously submitted, and there was no signal of an increased risk for 
malignancies over time. This is considered reassuring.  
Further long-term data are awaited to evaluate effects of liraglutide on neoplasia, in particular thyroid 
neoplasms,  in  particular  a  large,  cardiovascular  outcome  trial.  This  will  be  addressed  as  a  post-
marketing commitment.  
Thyroid Adverse Events 
The rate of thyroid AEs appeared higher with liraglutide compared to non-liraglutide treatment based 
on  all  completed  trials  (35.7  vs.  22.0  events  per  1000  SYE.)  This  difference  was  mainly  driven  by 
events  of  increased  blood  calcitonin,  goitre  and  thyroid  neoplasms.  In  the  liraglutide  group,  more 
subjects  with  thyroid  AEs  during  the  trial  had  a  medical  history  of  thyroid  disease  compared  to 
subjects treated with non-liraglutide. No liraglutide dose-dependency was observed for these events in 
the  pooled  long-term  trials,  and  the  number  of  subjects  with  events  was  relatively  low.  Calcitonin 
levels were slightly more increased with liraglutide at week 26/28, but CI were wide and this effect 
was temporary, and most calcitonin values were within the normal range. 
The most frequently reported thyroid AE in the completed trials was thyroid neoplasm, reported at a 
higher rate in subjects treated with liraglutide as compared to non-liraglutide (7.1 vs. 3.5 events per 
1000  SYE).  In  the  completed  trials,  none  of  these  events  of  thyroid  neoplasm  were  serious,  the 
majority were mild. Concerns regarding thyroid AEs were raised as a Major Objection in the Day 120 
LoQ and in response the last safety update which had been submitted to the FDA was submitted. The 
rate  of  all  thyroid  neoplasms  was  comparable  for  subjects  treated  with  liraglutide  and  placebo,  and 
higher  than  for  subjects  treated  with  active  comparator.  The  rates  of  malignant  neoplasm  AEs  were 
higher  for  the  liraglutide  group;  10.9,  6.3,  7.2  and  6.9  events  per  1,000  SYE  for  total  liraglutide, 
placebo,  active  comparator  and  total  comparator,  respectively.  Compared  with  the  US  background 
population,  incidence  rates  of  malignant  neoplasms  are  not  higher  in  the  liraglutide  trials.  The 
papillary (follicular) thyroid cancers occur at a higher frequency in the liraglutide clinical development 
programme  than  in  the  referenced  background  population.  However,  subjects  included  in  the 
Page 38 of 49 
 
 
 
liraglutide clinical trial programme underwent careful thyroid related assessments, leading to the high 
number of thyroidectomies and can explain the imbalance. 
Subjects with pre-existing thyroid disease had a higher rate of thyroid AEs in comparison to subjects 
without  pre-existing  thyroid  disease:  68.1,  87.7,  and  51.4  respectively  for  liraglutide,  placebo  and 
active control in patients with pre-existing thyroid disorders, versus 29.5, 25.4 and 15.5 for liraglutide, 
placebo  and  active  control  in  patients  without  pre-existing  thyroid  disorders.  In  subjects  with  pre-
existing thyroid disease the rate of overall thyroid AEs was lower for subjects treated with liraglutide 
(68.1) compared to placebo (87.7) and somewhat higher than active control (51.4). For these patients 
neoplasms occurred at a higher rate compared to placebo and active comparator (34.0, 29.3 and 0.0) 
however, the rates of thyroid neoplasms were comparable for liraglutide and placebo (28.8 and 29.3; 
none in active comparator).  
As stated previously neoplasm adverse events including thyroid neoplasms will be studied as part of a 
large cardiovascular outcome trial.  
Information  is  included  in  the  “Special  warnings  and  precautions  for  use”  section  of  the  SPC 
particularly for patients with pre-existing thyroid disease. 
Pancreatitis  
Seven AEs of pancreatitis (liraglutide: 6, non-liraglutide: 1) of which 6 were serious (liraglutide: 5 and 
non-liraglutide:  1)  have  been  reported.  Concerning  the  5  serious  cases  reported,  four  cases  were 
associated  with  liraglutide,  and  one  to  OAD  (placebo  group).  In  some  of  the  cases  there  were 
independent risk factors for pancreatitis such as relevant medical history. An alternative aetiology to 
drug could be present in three of the cases on liraglutide. Of the 4 subjects that continued in the trials, 
two subjects did not experience reoccurrence of pancreatitis and two subjects, diagnosed with chronic 
pancreatitis, did not experience any worsening. Thus no definite conclusion of causal relationship to 
liraglutide  exposure  can  be  made.  Reporting  rates  of  acute  pancreatitis  and  pancreatitis  in  Phase  3a 
Trials  was  1.6/1,000  SYE  for  liraglutide  and  1.4/1,000  SYE  for  OAD.  For  comparison,  population 
based  studies  have  provided  the  following  incidences  for  pancreatitis:  1/1,000/year  in  the  type  2 
diabetes population. Epidemiology for pancreatitis is 0.05-0.8/1,000/year (background population) and 
1-5.4/1,000 SYE (type 2 diabetes population). 
Immunological events 
Adverse  events  of  immunogenicity  appeared  to  be  reported  at  higher  rates  in  subjects  treated  with 
liraglutide than in subjects treated with comparators across the completed trials (11.6 vs. 4.4 events per 
1000 SYE), and there appeared to be a dose-dependent relationship to liraglutide. Only 1 event (with 
liraglutide) was serious, the majority were non-serious (liraglutide: 96% and comparators: 100%). 
The majority of events were from the group of angioedema (mainly urticaria) and included one SAE 
(angioedema). The remaining events were mainly various types of oedema, not necessarily based on 
an immunological mechanism.  
Injection site disorders in the long-term trials were all non-serious. The rate of injection site disorders 
in  the  highest  liraglutide  dose  group  (1.8  mg)  was  comparable  to  the  placebo  group  but  the  rate 
appeared to increase in a dose-dependent manner with liraglutide. The increasing reporting rate may 
be related to the injected volume which increases with increasing dose. The most frequently reported 
were injection site bruising and pain. 
Due  to  the  high  degree  of  homology  between  liraglutide  and  native  GLP-1,  a  low  risk  of  antibody 
formation would be expected. At week 27 (26 weeks + ≥5 days off drug), the percentage of subjects 
with samples positive for liraglutide antibodies, antibodies with cross-reactivity towards native GLP-1 
and antibodies with a neutralising effect of liraglutide in vitro were generally low and comparable for 
the  three  liraglutide  treatment  groups.  Antibodies  did  not  appear  to  have  any  effect  on  neither  the 
glycaemic  response (HbA1c)  nor the  AE  profile.  However,  the  formulation-to-be-marketed  was  only 
used in one trial. This point was considered of concern and in response data from 3 new trials were 
submitted.  Trial  1797  provided  data  on  a  limited  number  of  patients  over  26  weeks.  The  Japanese 
trials  (1700  and  1701)  provide  more  long-term  data.  With  these  new  trials,  the  number  of  subjects 
exposed to the to-be-marketed-formulation is substantial, although about half of them were Japanese 
subjects.  A  comparison  was  made  between  immunogenicity  side  effects  in  subjects  treated  with  the 
trial-formulation and  subjects  treated  with the  to-be-marketed-formulation. There  was  no  correlation 
between  experiencing  an  immunogenicity  or  injection  site  disorder  related  side  effect  and  antibody 
status  using  any  of  the  two  formulations.  The  majority  of  adverse  events  in  these  categories  were 
Page 39 of 49 
 
 
reported in subjects not being positive for liraglutide antibodies. Antibody formation will be monitored 
and submit information in the future PSURs. 
Cardiovascular events 
Cardiac disorders were reported with higher rates for liraglutide 0.6mg and 1.2 mg whereas, the rate 
for liraglutide 1.8mg was comparable with the rates for placebo and active comparator. When pooling 
the 3 liraglutide treatment groups in one liraglutide group, the rates of cardiac events in the liraglutide 
group were comparable to the placebo group and slightly higher as compared to the active comparator 
and the total comparator groups. 
The most frequently reported SAEs were cardiac disorders. The rate of serious cardiac AEs were also 
reported  with  a  higher  frequency  for  liraglutide  0.6mg  whereas  liraglutide  1.2mg  and  1.8mg  were 
comparable with placebo and comparator. The most  frequently reported SAEs were angina pectoris, 
acute  myocardial  infarction  and  myocardial  infarction.  Generally,  the  rates  and  types  of  serious 
cardiac  adverse  events  were  comparable  between  the  treatment  groups.  With  the  present  data, 
liraglutide treatment does not seem clearly associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events, 
however  due  to  the  higher  incidence  in  the  liraglutide  group  the  relationship  can  not  be  excluded 
either. At present cardiac events are covered by routine pharmacovigilance activities. Due to the high 
risk  of  CV  disease  in  diabetes  type  2  patients the  data  provided  on  cardiac  safety  necessitates  long-
term follow-up safety measures to assess CV morbidity and mortality post-marketing.   
Adverse events of vascular disorders in general occurred at comparable rates across treatment groups 
and were comparable in subject treated with liraglutide as compared to placebo. 
The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  were  hypertension,  vascular  calcification  and  hypotension.  In  all 
completed trials, SAEs of vascular disorders in general were few and occurred at comparable rates in 
liraglutide  vs.  non-liraglutide  groups.  Major  adverse  cardiovascular  events  (MACE)  were  not  more 
frequent  in  liraglutide  compared  to  any  of  the  comparators;  however,  overall  events  were  low. 
Therefore,  it  was  neither  possible  to  confirm  nor  dismiss  a  potential  dose-relationship.  A 
cardiovascular outcome trial will be conducted as a post-authorisation follow up measure will provide 
further data. 
Blood pressure 
In the five confirmatory trials liraglutide 1.8mg resulted in a decrease in systolic blood pressure by -3 
to  -6  mm  Hg  from  baseline.  Compared  to  active  comparator  the  decrease  was  -1.8  to  -4.5  mm  Hg. 
Weight  reduction  could  be  responsible  for  the  decrease  in  blood  pressure.  However,  blood  pressure 
started to decrease before the weight reduction. Other mechanisms, like diuresis and sodium excretion 
or effect on endothelium-mediated vasodilation could also be responsible. 
Hypoglycaemic Episodes 
Overall, few hypoglycaemic episodes were reported during treatment with liraglutide and the majority 
of  the  episodes  were  classified  as  ‘minor’  (<3.1  mmol/L  (56  mg/dL),  no  third  party  assistance 
required).  
In Trial 1573 (monotherapy) a dose of 8mg/day glimepiride was used. However, in Europe usually 4 
mg daily (6 mg is the maximum approved dose) is recommended. Therefore, the safety of liraglutide 
(especially hypoglycaemic events) may be overestimated by this high dose. The percentage of subjects 
experiencing minor hypoglycaemic episodes during the main trial and open-label extension period was 
lower in the 2 liraglutide groups (liraglutide 1.2 mg: 11.6% and liraglutide 1.8 mg, 7.7%) than in the 
glimepiride  group  (glimepiride,  25.0%).  The  corresponding  rates  were  liraglutide  1.2  mg:  241.6, 
liraglutide  1.8  mg:  230.1  and  glimepiride:  1659.2  episodes  per  1000  subject  years  of  exposure. 
Although only speculation, it seems unlikely that the difference in hypoglycaemia rates between the 
4mg dose and the 8mg dose would have been so large as to reverse the favourable safety profile of 
liraglutide with regard to hypoglycaemic event compared to glimepiride. 
Sections  4.2,  4.4  and  4.8  of  the  SPC  include  a  information  regarding  the  combination  of  liraglutide 
with a sulphonylurea as this may increase the risk of hypoglycaemia. The risk of hypoglycaemia can 
be reduced by a reduction in the dose of sulphonylurea 
Page 40 of 49 
 
 
 
•  Laboratory findings 
Liraglutide  treatment  did  not  seem  to  be  associated  with  any  pathological  alterations  in  laboratory 
parameters; haematology, liver or kidney parameters. During the long-term trials (inclusive extensions 
of  study  1572  and  1573)  almost  no  alterations  outside  the  normal  range  in  calcitonin  levels  were 
observed, that could support a human relevance of the reported C-cell findings in rodents in the pre-
clinical program. Calcitonin is not suitable as biomarker in routine screening for the development of 
medullary thyroid cancer.  
•  Safety in special populations 
The therapeutic experience in patients with all degrees of hepatic impairment is currently too limited 
to  recommend  the  use  in  patients  with  mild,  moderate  or  severe  hepatic  impairment  (see  Clinical 
efficacy section). 
As  regards  the  safety  profile  in  patients  with  mild  renal  impairment  the  rates  (events  per  1000 
subject years of exposure) of total AEs and withdrawals due to AEs were clearly much higher in the 
1.2 mg (4725 and 414) and 1.8 mg (4708 and 442) groups compared to the 0.6mg group (2832 and 
74),  active  comparator  (2960  and  108) and  placebo (2794  and  58). The rate  of SAEs  for  liraglutide 
0.6mg and 1.2mg was lower than placebo and active comparator, whereas it was higher for liraglutide 
1.8mg. 
The higher rate of AEs was primarily driven by higher rates in GI AEs. In the total liraglutide group of 
patients with CrCL ≤60-90 ml/min at baseline the rate of  gastro intestinal disorders amounted to 4233 
events  per  1000  subject  years  of  exposure  vs.  3810  in  patients  with  CrCL  >  90  ml/min  at  baseline. 
This safety concern is reflected in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
As  regards  patients  with  CrCL  below  60  ml/min  insufficient  efficacy  data  has  been  presented  to 
support the use of liraglutide in this patient group. Only 51 patients were included across all 5 pivotal 
studies (with different treatment combinations; only 8 patients from the monotherapy study 1573) in 
the combined liraglutide 1.2mg and 1.8mg treatment groups. Use in patients with moderate to severe 
renal impairment is currently not recommended. 
An overview of AEs in the sub-populations of the elderly population (>65 years, > 70 years and > 75 
years) was provided. Both the rates of AEs, SAEs and withdrawals due to AEs increased by age for 
liraglutide 1.2 mg and 1.8 mg. The number of elderly > 75 years was very low (liraglutide 0.6 mg: 8; 
liraglutide 1.2 mg: 17; liraglutide 1.8 mg: 23, placebo: 7; active comparator: 28) why conclusions in 
this sub-group should be drawn cautiously. The rate of AEs was clearly higher for elderly above the 
age of 70 years for the highest doses of liraglutide (1.2 mg: 5102.3 and 1.8mg: 6103.4 compared to 
placebo (3441.6) and active comparator (2018.0). Also for the elderly >75 years of age the rate was 
higher  for  the  highest  dose  of  liraglutide  (1.8mg:  8756.5)  vs.  placebo  (5358.2),  the  latter  however 
being higher than for liraglutide 1.2mg. For all age groups the majority of AEs were non-serious and 
mild to moderate in intensity. The higher rate of AEs was primarily driven by higher rates in GI AEs 
particularly for patients above the age of 70 years. The rates (events pr 1000 SYE) for GI AEs were as 
follows for the  sub-groups  <65,  >65,  >70  and 75years: liraglutide  0.6  mg:  712,  985,  1018  and  446; 
liraglutide 1.2 mg: 1117, 1132, 1669 and 989; liraglutide 1.8 mg: 1385, 1955, 2222 and 3313. Section 
4.8 of the SPC includes a statement to this respect. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Liraglutide has been shown in animals to lower blood glucose synergistically in combination with the 
PPARγ agonist pioglitazone, and to increase insulin secretion synergistically in combination with the 
sulphonylurea glipizide.  
Liraglutide has no clinically relevant potential to inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 drug metabolising 
enzymes, and no clinically relevant drug-drug interaction related to protein binding is anticipated. 
Concomitant administration of liraglutide and selected drugs (see Pharmacokinetic interaction studies) 
resulted  in  changes  in  exposure  and  absorption  of  the  investigated  drugs  that was  not  considered to 
clinically significant. However, it should be kept in mind that the small delay in gastric emptying with 
Page 41 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
liraglutide may potentially influence absorption of concomitantly administered oral drugs and result in 
drug-drug  interaction.  This  is  of  special  relevance  with  drugs  with  poor  solubility  and  small 
therapeutic window, such as warfarin.  
Combination  of  liraglutide  with  insulin  has  not  been  evaluated  and  is  therefore  not  recommended. 
Diarrhoea may affect the absorption of concomitant oral drugs. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Across  all  completed  trials  5.9%  of  liraglutide-treated  subjects  and  3.0%  of  non-liraglutide-treated 
subjects withdrew due to AEs. Adverse events leading to withdrawal were mainly non-serious in both 
groups. There are more withdrawals due to common adverse events in the higher liraglutide group. 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Page 42 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Labelling – SPC: 
•  Sec. 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration: A reduction in the dose of 
sulphonylurea should be considered to 
reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia. 
•  Sec. 4.4 Special warnings and precautions 
for use: The risk of hypoglycaemia can be 
lowered by a reduction in the dose of 
sulphonylurea. 
•  Sec. 4.8 Listed as Undesirable effects 
Labelling – SPC: 
•  Sec. 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration: To improve gastro-
intestinal tolerability, the starting dose is 
0.6 mg liraglutide daily. 
•  Sec 4.8 Listed as Undesirable effects  
Labelling – SPC Sec. 4.4 Special warnings 
and precautions for use: Limited experience in 
patients with congestive heart failure New 
York Heart Association (NYHA) class I-II. 
There is no experience in patients with 
congestive heart failure NYHA class III-IV. 
Labelling – SPC Sec. 4.8 Listed as 
Undesirable effects 
Labelling – SPC Sec. 4.4 Special warnings 
and precautions for use: Patients should be 
informed of the characteristic symptom of 
acute pancreatitis. Suspect medicinal products 
should be discontinued. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Identified Safety Issues 
Hypoglycaemia 
•  Routine and targeted 
pharmacovigilance  
•  Analyses of ongoing and planned 
clinical trials 
Gastrointestinal 
adverse events 
including nausea, 
diarrhoea, vomiting, 
constipation, dyspepsia 
Potential Safety Issues 
Medullary Thyroid 
cancer  
Neoplasm 
Cardiac co-morbidity 
Late stage 
microvascular 
complication of the 
eye 
Immunogenicity 
(antibody formation, 
allergic reactions and 
injection site 
disorders) 
Pancreatitis 
Missing information 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance  
•  Analyses of ongoing and planned 
clinical trials  
•  Routine and targeted 
pharmacovigilance  
•  Database study  
•  Analyses of ongoing and planned 
clinical trials  
•  Routine and targeted 
pharmacovigilance  
•  Database study  
•  Analyses of ongoing and planned 
clinical trials 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance  
•  Analyses of ongoing and planned 
clinical trials including a 
cardiovascular outcome study 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance  
•  Analyses of ongoing and planned 
clinical trials  
•  Routine and targeted 
pharmacovigilance 
•  Analyses of ongoing and planned 
clinical trials 
•  Routine and targeted 
pharmacovigilance 
•  Database study 
•  Analyses of ongoing and planned 
clinical trials 
Page 43 of 49 
 
 
 
 
Abuse due to weight 
lowering potential 
Children and 
adolescents 
Overdose 
Pregnant and lactating 
women  
Potential interaction 
with warfarin 
Cardiac co-morbidity 
Renal and hepatic 
impairment/endstage 
renal failure 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Available as prescription only 
•  Clinical trial including children 
between 10 and 17 years of age 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling – SPC Sec. 4.2 Posology and 
method of administration: Not recommended 
for use in children below 18 years of age. 
Labelling – SPC Sec. 4.6 Pregnancy and 
lactation: Not to be used during pregnancy. 
Should not be used during breast-feeding. 
Labelling – SPC Sec. 4.5 Interaction with 
other medicinal products and other forms of 
interaction: Upon initiation of liraglutide 
treatment in patients on warfarin more 
frequent monitoring of INR is recommended. 
Labelling – SPC Sec. 4.2. Posology and 
method of administration: 
Renal impairment: Not recommended for use 
in patients with moderate and severe renal 
impairment including patients with end-stage 
renal disease. 
Hepatic impairment: The therapeutic 
experience in patients with all degree of 
hepatic impairment is currently too limited to 
recommend the use in patients with mild, 
moderate or severe hepatic impairment. 
Off-label use 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Overall,  the  documentation  on  the  quality  demonstrates  consistent  batch-to-batch  production  of 
Victoza achieving a well-defined quality for the drug substance and the drug product. No excipients of 
human  or  animal  origin  are  used  in  the  product  manufacture  and  therefore  there  is  no  risk  of 
contamination with viral or TSE agents by these ingredients. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall the primary PD studies provided adequate evidence that liraglutide is a potent, selective and 
efficacious  agonist  on  the  GLP-1  receptor,  glucose-dependently  stimulating  insulin  secretion.  This 
effect has been seen in vitro from isolated beta-cell islets and in vivo in a number of diabetic and obese 
models using rodents, pigs and monkeys.  In vivo the effect was accompanied by a decrease in body 
weight.  The  mechanism  of  action  in  vivo  involved  glucose-dependent  increase  in  insulin  secretion, 
lowered glucagon secretion, decreased gastric emptying, loss of body fat, lowered food intake, altered 
food  preference,  and  maintained  energy  expenditure.  The  mechanism  of  action  is  consistent  with  a 
specific GLP-1 effect. The safety pharmacology programme did not reveal any findings of concern for 
humans.  
From  the  PK  point  of  view,  the  disposition  characteristics  were  generally  similar  across  the  species 
tested, showing liraglutide to be well absorbed from the injection site. The distribution volume is low 
and  close  to  plasma  volume,  indicating  that  a  high  fraction  of  liraglutide  is  circulating  in  plasma.  
Liraglutide was seen to have linear pharmacokinetics with dose-proportional exposures or an exposure 
slightly  higher  than  dose-proportional.  The  accumulation  ratio  was  comparable  to  that  observed  in 
humans.  The  terminal  half-life  seems  to  be  similar  in  pigs  and  humans  while  shorter  in  mice,  rats, 
Page 44 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rabbits and monkeys. These differences however were explained by the study design or absorption rate 
limited kinetics. Clearance of liraglutide is suggested to take place by multiple organs/tissues and low 
potential for PK drug interactions related to CYP and protein binding have been demonstrated. 
Liraglutide crosses the placental barrier in rats and rabbits. However, the uptake of liraglutide into the 
amniotic fluid and foetuses is low. Liraglutide is secreted into milk, but the amount that a pup would 
receive per day via breast milk is low.  
Overall the general toxicology programme revealed that liraglutide had effects on body weight (gain) 
and  food  consumption  in  the  first  weeks  of  dosing.  These  effects  can  be  seen  as  the  result  of  the 
pharmacological  action  of  liraglutide.  A  clear  treatment  effect  was  C-cell  hyperplasia  found  in  the 
thyroid of treated mice. Effects on C-cells (focal accumulations of C-cells) were already seen in the 4-
week mice study, while after 9-13 weeks C-cell hyperplasia was seen. No effects on C-cells were seen 
in the rat and monkey studies up to 26 and 52 weeks. Effects on C-cells in rats were seen however in 
longer  carcinogenicity  studies.  In  a  few  monkeys  antibodies  were  found  which  cross-reacted  with 
GLP-1. This implies that an immunological reaction against the body’s own GLP-1 could be possible. 
Data on antibody formation will be reported in the PSURs. 
In carcinogenicity studies thyroid C-cell tumours were observed in mice and rats. It is concluded that 
these  tumours  induced  by  dosing  of  liraglutide  are  caused  by  a  non-genotoxic,  specific  GLP-1 
receptor-mediated  mechanism  to  which  mice  and  rats  are  particularly  sensitive  and  monkeys  and 
humans  are  not.  The  relevance  for  humans  is  therefore  likely  to  be  low  but  cannot  be  completely 
excluded. Section 5.3 of the SPC has been adjusted accordingly. 
Liraglutide was not seen to be genotoxic or teratogenic. 
Efficacy 
The  product  is  a  solution  for  subcutaneous  injection  containing  6.0  mg/ml  of  liraglutide  to  be 
administered once daily. 
Core studies of the application are five phase III trials, the so called therapeutic confirmatory trials. 
Based on these trials a marketing authorisation for liraglutide initially as monotherapy, as well as dual 
and as triple therapy was sought. The claim for monotherapy was withdrawn during the procedure (see 
below).  Study  duration,  chosen  endpoints,  in-  and  exclusion  criteria  of  the  studies  were  generally 
adequate and in accordance with the current guideline. 
Used  as  monotherapy  (trial  1573),  liraglutide  1.2  and  1.8  mg  was  more  effective  than  glimepiride 
8 mg daily, although this dose of 8 mg glimepiride is high for Europe. The consequences of this are 
primarily  safety  issues  (hypoglycaemia)  and  have  been  discussed.  A  comparison  with  metformin 
would have been preferred as metformin is currently the first choice in T2DM. Additionally, there is 
limited  long-term  data  on  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  liraglutide.  Initially  a  second  line  monotherapy 
indication  in  patients  who  are  intolerant  to  or  have  contraindications  to  metformin  treatment  was 
proposed.  However,  the  most  essential  contraindications  for  metformin  (moderate  and  severe  renal 
impairment,  hepatic  impairment,  heart  failure  and  recent  myocardial  infarction)  are  conditions  for 
which there is limited experience for liraglutide. This indication was withdrawn during the procedure. 
Given in dual therapy, when added to metformin, liraglutide (1.2 or 1.8 mg) was equally effective as 
glimepiride,  and  better  than  metformin  monotherapy.  Long-term  data  of  study  1572  showed  that, 
although HbA1c started to increase after 20 weeks, the difference with the control was also persistent. 
As an add-on to SU, liraglutide was more effective than rosiglitazone in Trial 1436. Statistically and 
clinically criteria for superiority were met. The dose of rosiglitazone however was considered low; in 
which case the safety of rosiglitazone arm may have been enhanced, but the efficacy may also have 
been  decreased.  In  addition  to  the  low  dose  of  rosiglitazone,  the  duration  of  the  trial  was  only  26 
weeks, while the efficacy of rosiglitazone is expected to be more pronounced after one year, therefore 
limiting its conclusion. It should be noted that dual therapy when added to rosiglitazone has not been 
studied. The initial claim for this combination was withdrawn.  
Page 45 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  triple  therapy  liraglutide+metformin+rosiglitazone  (trial  1574)  was  more  effective  than  dual 
therapy  with  metformin+rosiglitazone.  The  combination  of  liraglutide+metformin+glimepiride  (trial 
1697)  resulted  in  lower  HbA1c  values  than  insulin+  metformin+glimepiride.  The  dose  of  insulin 
glargine  was  individually  titrated  on  basis  of  the  fasting  glucose  value<  5.5  mmol/L  following  a 
titration  guideline and  on advise  of the  investigator. The  combination  of  liraglutide  with insulin  has 
not been evaluated and is therefore not recommended. 
A clear justification from the dose finding studies for the chosen dosages of liraglutide 1.2 and 1.8 mg 
is  lacking  as  most  of  the  pharmacodynamic  studies  and  clinical  exploratory  trials  used  lower  dose 
regimens.  However,  on  the  basis  of  the  results  from  the  clinical  development  programme,  it  is 
accepted that the observations made in the early trials are relevant and transferable to the effects and 
results obtained in the later long-term confirmatory therapeutic trials using higher doses. 
A  dose-response  effect  was  seen  in  the  monotherapy  trial,  but  was  not  apparent  in  the  combination 
trials. However, clinically, results in combination therapy are also relevant. As far as the magnitude of 
the effect can be compared between trials, data suggest that the efficacy of the 1.2 mg is less in the 
monotherapy trial as compared to the combination trials.  
Overall,  percentages  of  adverse  events  were  comparable  between  doses  in  the  long-term  trials. 
However, there were differences in GI events and withdrawals, especially in trial 1572 (combination 
with  metformin)  and  trial 1574  (triple therapy  with metformin  and  rosiglitazone),  being  higher  with 
the 1.8 mg dose.  
It  is  concluded  that  in  dual  and  combination  treatment,  only  limited  effect  can be  expected from  an 
increase in dose to 1.8 mg, while GI adverse events might increase.  
The therapeutic experience in patients with all degrees of hepatic impairment is currently too limited 
to recommend the use in patients with mild, moderate or severe hepatic impairment. 
Therapeutic  experience  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  renal  insufficiency  is  too  limited  to 
recommend use in these patients. 
Change  in  body  weight  was  a  key  secondary  endpoint  in  all  five  trials.  Liraglutide  induced  weight 
loss, varying between 1 – 2.5 kg within the first 8 weeks of treatment which overall was maintained 
for the rest of the treatment period.  
Liraglutide also has some beneficial effect on the beta cell function compared with placebo. However, 
limited  data has  been  provided  and  the  results are difficult to interpret  and  measures  inadequate for 
final conclusions on the effect of liraglutide on the progression of the DM.  
Safety 
Most  of  the  data  were  obtained  from  the  five  long-term  trials  using  the  1.2  and  1.8  mg  dosages. 
Dosages used in trials other than the long-term trials were rather low. This might have consequences 
for the incidence of AEs in the “all completed trials safety analysis”, and “for the long-term trial safety 
analysis”  when  dosages  are  pooled.  The  duration  of  exposure  was  initially  relatively  short,  in 
particular with regard to the development of neoplasms and extension studies are ongoing, however 
further long-term data from trial 1797, 1572 and 1573 were submitted during the procedure. 
The most common AEs associated with liraglutide treatment were gastrointestinal disorders, mostly 
nausea,  diarrhoea  and  vomiting.  Withdrawal  rates  due  to  these  adverse  events  were  higher  in 
liraglutide treated groups than with placebo or active comparator. The GI adverse events were seen in 
the  first  two  months  after start  of  liraglutide  and  were  dose  related.  In  combination  with  metformin 
more GI adverse events were reported. Headache and upper respiratory tract infection were commonly 
reported in the background population, but not considered related to the treatment. 
Special  focus  was  given  to  the  following  potential  safety  signals  based  on  non-clinical  findings 
(thyroid C-cell tumours in carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice) and the use of exenatide, another 
GLP-1 receptor agonist:  
Most  malignancies  were  reported  in  the  liraglutide  group,  although  the  types  of  malignancy  were 
heterogeneous  and  the  numbers  small.  It  remains  unclear  whether  malignant  neoplasms  are  dose 
related to liraglutide, there were not sufficient data provided to this respect.  
Page 46 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thyroid events, consisting of goitre, thyroid neoplasms and increase calcitonin levels occurred more 
often in liraglutide group, both in patients with and without pre-existing thyroid pathology. However, 
the rates of thyroid events in patients with concomitant thyroid illness were lower than placebo. It is 
not clear if thyroid illness becomes worse under liraglutide treatment. Calcitonin levels were slightly 
more increased with liraglutide at week 26/28, but the CI were wide, the effect was temporary, and 
most calcitonin values were within the normal range. The problem remains that there is no appropriate 
screening  tool  for  C-cell  hyperplasia  (CCH)  and  medullary  thyroid  carcinoma  (MTC).  Even  though 
calcitonin  appears  to  be  the  best  biomarker  for  increased  C-cell  activity  as  it  is  almost  exclusively 
expressed  by  thyroid  C-cells,  its  routine  use  as  a  screening  tool  presents  limitations.  This  was 
considered  as  a  major  objection  during  the  procedure  in  response  to  which  additional  data  was 
submitted.  At  this  point  in  time  however  the  possibility  that  there  is  a  causal  relationship  between 
liraglutide and thyroid neoplasms/goitre can not be totally ruled. In subjects with pre-existing thyroid 
disease, the overall rate of all adverse events in the liraglutide group is very high. Monitoring these 
events in these patients in clinical practice would result in extra and unwarranted medical evaluation. 
In  view  of  all  the  above,  information  is  included  in  the  “Special  warnings  and  precautions  for  use” 
section of the SPC particularly for patients with pre-existing thyroid disease.  
Information  regarding  malignancies,  including  thyroid  neoplasms  will  be  collected  in  a  large  post-
authorisation cardiovascular long-term outcome trial. 
Pancreatitis  was  seen  more  frequently  in  liraglutide  treated  patients  than  in  the  control  groups  but 
overall the rates were similar to those known in the T2DM population. However, this AE should be 
closely monitored post marketing, in particular because recently some severe cases have been reported 
during use of exenatide.  
More AEs of immunogenicity were seen with liraglutide treatment, but most events were non serious. 
The  percentage  of  subjects  with  samples  positive  for  liraglutide  antibodies,  antibodies  with  cross-
reactivity  towards  native  GLP-1  and  antibodies  with  a  neutralising  effect  of  liraglutide  in  vitro  was 
generally  low.  The  formulation-to-be-marketed  was  only  used  in  one  trial.  In  response  to  this,  data 
from 3 new trials were submitted. In spite of the results being reassuring, antibody formation will be 
monitored as a post-authorisation commitment. 
Reported incidence rate of cardiac events does not indicate an increased risk in subjects allocated to 
liraglutide treatment, but the duration of the studies was limited. It is noted that patients with severe 
cardiac  co-morbidity  were  not  included  in  the  submitted  studies.  Given  the  absence  of  data  and  the 
prevalence of these conditions in the target population, cardiac events represent a possible concern and 
as such are included in the RMP as a potential risk. A potential relationship of liraglutide treatment 
and increase in cardiovascular events can not be entirely excluded, reason why  long-term follow up 
data on cardiac safety will be collected in a cardiovascular outcome study. 
Liraglutide is associated with minor hypoglycaemic events, but less than seen with a sulphonylurea. It 
should  be  noted  that  the  dose  of  glimepiride  used  in  the  monotherapy  trial  was  higher  than  that 
registered in Europe and this will have increased the hypoglycaemia rate in the glimepiride group. A 
comparison  with  metformin  is  lacking.  Major  hypoglycaemic  events  were  rare.  Especially  when 
liraglutide  was  added  to  a  SU  (dual  or  triple  therapy)  the  number  of  minor  and  major  events  was 
increased. Therefore, the dose of SU should be reduced in these cases. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
User consultation of the package leaflet of the 1.8 mg solution for injection was performed. The results 
were satisfactory, i.e. 90% of the participants were able to find the information and of those 90% were 
able to express the information in their own words. A bridging statement was submitted for the PL of 
Page 47 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the 1.2 mg pen. There are no significant differences between the content of the parent (1.8 mg) and the 
daughter (1.2 mg) leaflet because they contain the same active substance.  
During  the  procedure  a  single  three-dose  pen  injector  was  introduced  instead  of  the  original  2  pens 
which administered 0.6 mg/1.2 mg and 1.8 mg doses. No additional user testing has been performed 
for  the  new  PL  of  the  three-dose  pen;  neither  a  formal  bridging  statement  has  been  submitted.  The 
difference between the new pen and the former 1.2 mg pen is that the new pen offers the possibility for 
the selection of three instead of two (or one, in the case if 1.8 mg) doses. Referring to the acceptability 
of the former bridging statement for the 1.2 mg pen, additional testing is not required, because patients 
will use the leaflet in conjunctions with guidance from their doctor or nurse.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
Liraglutide treatment 1.2 and 1.8 mg had a clear effect on lowering HbA1c. This effect was statistically 
significant  both  for liraglutide as  1)  monotherapy  (compared  to  glimepiride)  (effect  size  -1.14  and  -
0.84 for 1.8 mg and 1.2 mg respectively) and 2) as dual therapy as add-on to metformin vs metformin 
and  glimepiride  +  metformin (effect size:  -1.00  and  -0.97  for 1.8 mg  and  1.2 mg  respectively) or as 
add-on to glimepiride vs. glimepiride and glimepiride + rosiglitazone (effect size: -1.36 and -1.08 for 
1.8 mg  and  1.2 mg  respectively),  and  3)  as  triple  therapy  as  add-on  to  metformin  +  glimepiride  vs 
metformin  +  glimepiride  and  metformin  +  glimepiride  +  insulin  glargine  (effect  size:  -1.33  for 
1.8 mg). In addition, the number of subjects reaching the predefined ADA and AACE HbA1c targets of 
< 7.0% and 6.5% respectively, was significantly higher in the liraglutide groups (as monotherapy vs. 
glimepiride  and  as  add-on  therapy  vs.  placebo).  The  effect  on  HbA1c  of  liraglutide  1.8  mg  as 
monotherapy  was  statistically  significantly  superior  to  the  effect  of  liraglutide  1.2 mg,  whereas,  the 
effect as add-on therapy was without a definite dose-relationship with respect to liraglutide 1.2 mg and 
1.8 mg. 
Decreases in FPG and postprandial glucose were supportive of the efficacy of liraglutide. 
Change in body weight was a key secondary endpoint in all five trials showing weight loss, similar to 
exenatide, the other drug with GLP-1 mediated mode-of-action. 
The effects shown on HbA1c, however have important limitations. For the monotherapy indication no 
comparison has been made to metformin. The indication “monotherapy in patients who cannot tolerate 
metformin”  is  not  accepted  due  to  the  concerns  of  the  CHMP  regarding  the  unknown  efficacy  and 
safety of liraglutide in patients for whom metformin is contraindicated (congestive heart failure, recent 
acute  myocardial  infarction  and  renal  and  hepatic  impairment)  as  well  as  lack  of  overall  beneficial 
long-term  efficacy  and  safety  data. The  exclusion  criteria  in the  efficacy  studies  showed  an  overlap 
with  the  contraindications of  metformin  and  patients  intolerant  to  metformin  have  not  been  studied. 
Long-term  safety  is  not  known  for  liraglutide  in  particular  with  respect  to  cardiovascular  safety, 
neoplasm, thyroid events, pancreatitis and immunogenicity. 
investigation  of  medicinal  products 
The trial designs are not in line with the design recommended in the CHMP “Note for guidance on 
treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus” 
clinical 
(CHMP/EWP1080/00): according to the guideline add-on studies should be carried out by adding the 
new  drug  to  non-responders  of  the  first  drug  which  is  not  the  case  in  the  present  trials.  The  study 
design  for  trials  1572,  1436,  and  1574  represented  a  switch-over  scenario  for  a  large  portion  of 
included  subjects  rather  than  an  add-on  scenario.  It  was  considered  that  this  could  have  biased  the 
efficacy  results  in  favour  of  liraglutide  which  made  the  interpretation  of  the  overall  efficacy  results 
difficult.  However,  further  post-hoc  analyses  support  that  the  switch-over  trial  design  had  no  major 
impact on the results of HbA1c change.  
the 
in 
None of the studies support a dual combination treatment of liraglutide with TZD. However, efficacy 
and  safety  in  triple  therapy  (liraglutide  +  metformin  +  rosiglitazone)  has  sufficiently  been 
demonstrated.  The  risk  of  off-label  use  as  dual  therapy  is  expected  to  be  very  limited  due  to  the 
restricted monotherapy indication of TZDs in the EU. 
Exposure in patients with renal and hepatic impairment is decreased. Its implications for clinical use 
have  insufficiently  been  studied.  As  such,  Victoza  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  patients  with 
Page 48 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
moderate  and  severe  renal  impairment  including  patients  with  end-stage  renal  disease  or  in  patients 
with mild, moderate or severe hepatic impairment. 
A  sufficient  number  of  patients  were  studied  during  the  first  year  of  treatment,  but  the  duration  of 
exposure  is  relatively  short,  in  particular  with  regard  to  the  development  of  thyroid  illnesses  and 
neoplasms.  
As  expected  for  a  GLP-1  analogue,  the  most  common  adverse  events  associated  with  liraglutide 
treatment were gastrointestinal disorders, mostly nausea, diarrhoea and vomiting,  
Special focus was given to a number of potential safety signals based on non-clinical findings and the 
use of exenatide, another GLP-1 receptor agonist.  
The types of malignancies seen in the clinical studies were heterogeneous and the numbers small, most 
however were reported in the liraglutide group. Another important concern which remains at this point 
is  the  occurrence  of  thyroid  events  (goitre,  neoplasms  and  increased  calcitonin)  that  occurred  more 
often in liraglutide group, both in patients with and without pre-existing thyroid pathology. Updating 
the  safety  data  revealed  that  neoplasms  occurred  at  a  higher  rate  compared  to  placebo  and  active 
comparator.  However,  the  relevance  of  these  data  is  doubtful  due  to  the  low  numbers.  The  rates  of 
thyroid neoplasms were comparable for liraglutide and placebo. 
Pancreatitis was also seen more frequently in liraglutide treated patients and warrants further attention. 
Events of immunogenicity were seen with liraglutide, but most events were non serious and antibody 
formations was generally low. This issue is also known for exenatide. The rate of local skin reactions 
was  also  low  and  comparable  to  the  placebo  group.  Liraglutide  is  associated  with  minor 
hypoglycaemic events, but major events were rare.  
Given  the  absence  of  data  and  the  prevalence  of  these  conditions  in  the  target  population,  cardiac 
events represent a possible concern and inclusion in the RMP as a potential risk is deemed necessary. 
In summary, most safety issues are in accordance with those reported for other GLP-analogues. The 
occurrence of neoplasms, thyroid disease will be studied within in the large cardiovascular outcome 
trial. 
Liraglutide  has  demonstrated  a  clinically  relevant  effect  on  glycaemic  control  in  type  2  diabetic 
patients  if  used  in  combination  with  sulphonylurea,  with  metformin,  with  metformin  and 
thiazolidinedione  or  with  metformin  and  sulphonylurea.  In  these  combinations  the  B/R  ratio  for 
liraglutide  is  considered  positive.  However,  efficacy  and  safety  data  for  the  use  of  liraglutide  as 
monotherapy, and in combination with thiazolidinedione alone has not been provided. Therefore, these 
two indications cannot be granted. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns. No additional risk  minimisation activities 
were required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Victoza  in  the  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  to 
achieve glycaemic control: 
In combination with: 
–Metformin or a sulphonylurea, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal 
tolerated dose of monotherapy with metformin or sulphonylurea 
In combination with: 
–Metformin  and  a  sulphonylurea  or  metformin  and  a  thiazolidinedione  in  patients  with  insufficient 
glycaemic control despite dual therapy was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Page 49 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
