EMA/614877/2019  
EMEA/H/C/001026 
Victoza (liraglutide) 
An overview of Victoza and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Victoza and what is it used for? 
Victoza is a medicine used in addition to diet and exercise in adults and children from 10 years of age 
who have type 2 diabetes.  
Victoza is used: 
• 
• 
on its own when use of metformin (another medicine for type 2 diabetes) is not recommended; 
as an ‘add-on’ to other diabetes medicines. 
Victoza contains the active substance liraglutide. 
How is Victoza used? 
Victoza is a solution for injection available in pre-filled pens (6 mg/ml). Victoza is given by the patient 
once a day by injection under the skin in the abdomen, thigh or upper arm. It is given independent of 
meals and preferably at the same time each day. 
The starting dose of Victoza is 0.6 mg. After at least one week, the dose is increased to 1.2 mg. In 
some patients, the dose can be further increased to 1.8 mg one week later to achieve better control of 
blood glucose. 
When Victoza is added to existing treatment containing metformin, thiazolidinedione or a sodium-
glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor (SGLT2i), the doses of these medicines do not have to be changed. 
When Victoza is added to treatment with a sulphonylurea or insulin, the doctor should consider 
lowering the dose of the other medicine to reduce the risk of having hypoglycaemia (low blood 
glucose).  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Victoza, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Victoza work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose (sugar) in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substance 
in Victoza, liraglutide, is an ‘incretin mimetic’. This means that it acts in the same way as incretins 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
(hormones produced in the gut) by increasing the amount of insulin released by the pancreas in 
response to food. This helps with the control of blood glucose levels. 
What benefits of Victoza have been shown in studies? 
Victoza was effective at controlling blood glucose in six main studies involving 4,289 adults and 
children with type 2 diabetes. In these studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in 
the amount of a substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) after six months or 
one year of treatment. HbA1c gives an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. 
In one ‘monotherapy’ study in adults, Victoza on its own was compared with glimepiride (a 
sulphonylurea). Victoza used on its own was more effective at controlling blood glucose than 
glimepiride. Results from this study show that Victoza at a dose of 1.2 mg reduced HbA1c by 0.8 
percentage points, whereas Victoza at a dose of 1.8 mg led to reductions of 1.1 percentage points. 
This compared with a reduction of 0.5 percentage points with glimepiride.  
In two ‘dual therapy’ adult studies, Victoza plus metformin or Victoza plus glimepiride were compared 
with metformin or glimepiride taken with a placebo (a dummy treatment). Combinations containing 
Victoza were more effective at controlling blood glucose than combinations without the medicine. Dual 
therapies containing Victoza and metformin or glimepiride led to reductions in HbA1c of around 1 
percentage point compared with no reduction without Victoza. 
In two ‘triple therapy’ adult studies, Victoza with metformin and either glimepiride or rosiglitazone (a 
thiazolidinedione) were compared with treatments that included placebo or another anti-diabetes 
medicine instead of Victoza. The triple therapies containing Victoza led to a reduction of between 1.3 
and 1.5 percentage points compared with a reduction equal or less than 0.5 points without Victoza. 
In another triple therapy adult study, Victoza was compared with a single dose of a short-acting 
insulin, insulin aspart, when added to treatment with basal insulin (a long-acting insulin) plus 
metformin. Adding Victoza to treatment with basal insulin plus metformin reduced HbA1c by 0.7 
percentage points, compared with 0.4 points when adding Victoza to insulin aspart. 
In a study in 134 adolescents and children from 10 years of age Victoza was found to be more effective 
than placebo. In this study, HbA1c fell by 0.64 percentage points in patients treated with Victoza while 
HbA1c increased by 0.42 points in patients treated with placebo. 
In addition to the above studies, Victoza in adults was shown to be effective in reducing adverse 
cardiovascular (heart and blood vessels) effects. The study involved 9,340 patients with type 2 
diabetes who already had cardiovascular disease (such as angina, heart attack or stroke). The main 
measure of effectiveness was the occurrence of one of three major cardiovascular events: stroke, 
heart attack or death caused by cardiovascular disease. Victoza was compared with placebo and all 
patients also received standard care. Patients were followed up on average for 3.8 years. 
Cardiovascular events occurred in 13% (608 out of 4668) of patients taking Victoza compared with 
14.9% (694 out of 4672) of patients taking placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Victoza? 
The most common side effects with Victoza (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are nausea and 
diarrhoea. These side effects usually pass after a few days or weeks of treatment. For the full list of 
side effects and restrictions with Victoza, see the package leaflet. 
Victoza (liraglutide)  
EMA/614877/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Victoza authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Victoza’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Victoza? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Victoza have  been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Victoza are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Victoza are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Victoza 
Victoza received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 30 June 2009. 
Further information on Victoza can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/victoza 
This overview was last updated in 11-2019. 
Victoza (liraglutide)  
EMA/614877/2019 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
