Summary of the risk management plan for Victoza 
(liraglutide in T2DM)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Victoza. The RMP 
details important risks of Victoza, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more information will be obtained about Victoza’s risks and uncertainties 
(missing information).
Victoza’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Victoza should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Victoza should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all of which is part of the EPAR. 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of Victoza’s RMP.
I.
The medicine and what it is used for
Victoza is authorised for the treatment of adults, adolescents and children 
above 10 years with insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus as an 
adjunct to diet and exercise (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
liraglutide as the active substance and it is injected subcutaneously. 
Further information about the evaluation of Victoza’s benefits can be found in 
Victoza’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: EPAR link
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks
Important risks of Victoza, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about Victoza’s risks, are outlined 
below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;

 The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the public 
(e.g., with or without prescription) can help to minimises its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including periodic safety update report 
(PSUR) assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Victoza is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A
List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Victoza are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal 
product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as 
identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Victoza. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use 
of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified 
risks
Important potential 
risks
 None
 Neoplasms (including melanoma) 
 Medullary thyroid cancer (C-cell carcinogenicity)
 Pancreatic cancer
 Off-label use, including abuse due to weight-lowering potential
Missing information
II.B
Summary of important risks
Important potential risk – Neoplasms (including melanoma)
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Completed therapeutic confirmatory trials (phase 3a and 3b 
trials) in which liraglutide was used as the investigational drug 
and market experience until the data lock point of this report are 
the evidence sources of this risk. 
In the T2DM clinical development programme, an imbalance in 
neoplasm reporting rates (liraglutide > comparator) was seen at 
the time of first marketing authorisation. The rate of malignant 
neoplasms was comparable between subjects treated with 
liraglutide and those not treated with liraglutide.
In the trial EX2211-3748 (LEADER), similar proportions of 
subjects in the liraglutide group and in the placebo group had 
neoplasms confirmed by an expert group. In the trial 
EX2211-3748 (LEADER), the frequency of malignant melanoma 
confirmed by expert group was low, consistent with the rare 
occurrence of the disease. The numerical imbalance in the low 
number of patients with malignant melanoma of the skin was 
also reflected in a numerically higher rate of malignant 
melanoma observed for liraglutide (0.07 vs. 0.02 events per 
100 PYO).
Based on the above considerations, neoplasm (including 
melanoma) has been classified as an important potential risk for 
liraglutide in T2DM.
There is no indication of a causal relationship between liraglutide
and the overall neoplasm. Patient risk factors for neoplasm 
include T2DM, obesity, smoking, alcohol abuse, environmental 
factors, a history of neoplasm and genetic predisposition.
Routine risk minimisation measures
None proposed 
Additional risk minimisation measures
None proposed
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimisation 
measures
Abbreviations: PYO = patient-years of observation; T2DM = type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Important potential risk – Medullary thyroid cancer (C-cell carcinogenicity)
Evidence for linking the risk to the
medicine
Risk factors and risk groups
Risk minimisation measures
Thyroid C-cell tumours were observed in liraglutide
carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats. Based on 
mechanistic data generated by Novo Nordisk and 
data from the literature, it has been shown that the 
C-cell tumours induced in mice and rats following 
dosing of liraglutide are caused by a non-genotoxic, 
specific GLP-1 receptor-mediated mechanism to 
which mice and rats are particularly sensitive, 
whereas monkeys and humans are not. The 
relevance for humans is likely to be low.
Data from the intensive monitoring of calcitonin (a 
marker for MTC) in plasma in the liraglutide clinical 
development programme do not support a liraglutide 
effect on calcitonin in humans.
There is no indication of a causal relationship 
between exposure to liraglutide and MTC. Patient 
risk factors for MTC include previous family history 
or personal medical history of MEN2.
Routine risk minimisation measures
Routine risk communication:
 Nonclinical findings are described in Section 5.3 of 
the SmPC.
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk:
 A warning on thyroid disease is included in 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC and Section 2 of the PL
Additional risk minimisation measures:
None proposed
Additional pharmacovigilance activities Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
NN2211-3965: MTC registry (MTC- 22341)
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of 
the post-authorisation development plan.
Abbreviations: EAC = Event Adjudication Committee; MEN2 = multiple endocrine neoplasia 
syndrome type 2; MTC = medullary thyroid cancer; PL = package leaflet; SmPC = Summary of 
Product Characteristics; SMQ = standardised MedDRA query; T2DM = type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Important potential risk – Pancreatic cancer
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Risk factors and risk
groups
Risk minimisation 
measures
Based on preclinical signals, an extensive review of all 
nonclinical and clinical trial data concerning pancreatic safety 
was performed by the FDA and the EMA, resulting in the 
publication of a joint commentary in 2014 stating that assertions 
concerning a causal association between incretin-based 
therapies and pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer were inconsistent 
with the available data.
Patients with T2DM, as well as patients with overweight or 
obesity, have an increased risk of certain types of cancer such as 
pancreatic cancer. Currently, data from clinical trials do not 
support that GLP-1-based therapies increase the risk of 
pancreatic cancer. However, due to the questions surrounding a 
potential association between GLP-1-based therapies and 
pancreatic cancer, pancreatic cancer has been added as a 
separate potential risk in line with Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) 
726/ (EMEA/H/A-5(3)/1369).
There is no indication of a causal relationship between liraglutide 
and pancreatic cancer. Patient risk factors for neoplasm include 
diabetes mellitus, chronic pancreatitis, obesity, physical 
inactivity, advanced age, smoking, alcohol abuse, environmental 
factors, history of neoplasm and family history of pancreatic 
cancer and other genetic predisposition.
Routine risk minimisation measures
None proposed
Additional risk minimisation measures
None proposed
Abbreviations: EMA = European Medicines Agency; FDA = U.S. Food and Drug Administration; 
GLP-1 = glucagon-like peptide-1; T2DM = type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Missing information – Off-label use, including abuse due to weight-lowering 
potential 
Risk minimisation 
measures
Routine risk minimisation measures
Routine risk communication:
 The approved indication is described in Section 4.1 of the 
SmPC and Section 1 of the PL.
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk:
None proposed 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information:
 By the legal status of the product; prescription only
Additional risk minimisation measures
None proposed
Abbreviations: PL = package leaflet; SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics.
II.C
Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or 
specific obligation of Victoza.
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
NN2211-3965: MTC registry (MTC-22341)
This active surveillance programme will monitor for any signal indicating a 
possible association between treatment with long-acting GLP-1 RAs and the 
development of MTC in the US population. The MTC registry is an FDA 
post-marketing requirement for long-acting GLP-1 RA products. 
The objectives of this MTC Surveillance Study are:
 To systematically monitor the annual incidence of MTC in the US through 
North American Association of Central Cancer Registries (NAACCR) to 
identify any possible increase related to the introduction of long-acting GLP-
1 RAs into the US market.
 To establish a registry of incident cases of MTC in adults in the US in order 
to characterise their medical histories and possible risk factors, including 
history of treatment with long acting GLP-1 RAs.
