8 December 2023 
EMA/291134/2023 Rev 1.1 
Shortage of Victoza (liraglutide) 
pre
filled pens (6 mg/ml) 
Indication 
Victoza is a medicine used in addition to diet and exercise in adults and children 
from 10 years of age who have type 2 diabetes. 
‑
Victoza is used: 
• 
• 
on its own when use of metformin (another medicine for type 2 
diabetes) is not recommended; 
as an ‘add-on’ to other diabetes medicines. 
The active substance in Victoza, liraglutide, is a ‘GLP-1 receptor agonist’ (GLP-1 
RA). 
Reason for 
shortage  
There has been an increase in demand for Victoza and delays in production 
which have also led to the release of some orders being delayed. This has led to 
supply shortages. In addition, the company has decided to temporarily reduce 
the production of Victoza to help increase the production of another GLP-1 RA, 
Ozempic. As a result, shortages of Victoza are expected at least until Q2 2024.  
Member 
States 
affected2 
Monitoring of 
shortage 
Information 
for healthcare 
professionals  
The supply shortage is not related to a quality defect of the product or a safety 
issue. 
The shortage affects some of the Member States where the product is 
marketed. 
For additional information consult your country’s shortage register or contact 
your national competent authority. 
EMA’s SPOC working party3 is closely monitoring the supply situation and 
engaging with the marketing authorisation holder and other stakeholders to 
facilitate measures to mitigate the impact of the supply shortage.  
•  An increase in demand for Victoza and delays in production have led to 
supply shortages, which have been worsened by the company’s decision to 
temporarily reduce the production of Victoza. 
The shortages are expected to continue until at least Q2 2024. 
• 
•  Healthcare professionals should not start any new patients on Victoza until 
at least Q2 2024, when supply is expected to normalise. 
•  Available supplies should only be used to continue treatment of patients 
currently on Victoza. 
1 This document was modified on 8 December 2023 to reflect the latest DHPC. 
2 This information may change. For up-to-date information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular 
Member State, contact the national competent authority. 
3 The SPOC working party is responsible for monitoring and reporting events that could affect the supply of 
medicines in the EU. Summaries of the SPOC working party meetings can be found on EMA’s website. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Victoza (liraglutide) 
pre
filled pens (6 mg/ml) 
• 
If Victoza is not available for patients currently using Victoza, healthcare 
professionals should switch these patients to another injectable GLP-1 RA or 
‑
another suitable alternative based on your clinical judgement. 
•  A delay in switching may result in patients missing the required doses, 
which could have clinical consequences such as hyperglycaemia.  
•  A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) has been sent to 
relevant healthcare professionals and is also available on the EMA website. 
•  Additional advice may be available from your country’s national shortage 
register or national competent authority. 
Information 
for patients  
•  An increase in demand for Victoza and delays in production have led to 
supply shortages, which have been worsened by the company’s decision to 
temporarily reduce the production of Victoza. 
• 
• 
The shortages are expected to continue until at least Q2 2024. 
If you are at risk of running out of Victoza, you may need to switch to 
another treatment (injectable GLP-1 RA). You should make an appointment 
with your healthcare professional to discuss the need to switch. 
•  A delay in switching may cause you to miss doses, which could lead to high 
blood sugar levels. If you have any questions, speak to your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
•  Additional advice may be available from your country’s national shortage 
register or national competent authority. 
Status 
Ongoing 
 
 
 
 
 
