28 January 2016 
EMA/152711/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): azacitidine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000274/201505 
Period covered by the PSUR: 19 May 2014 – 18 May 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for azacitidine, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Scientific conclusions and grounds for variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisations 
During the reporting interval, there were 3 new reports of pyoderma gangrenosum, and 13 reports 
have been received cumulatively. Taking into account all sources of information (studies, literature, 
spontaneous reports), 20 reports of azacitidine-associated pyoderma gangrenosum were retrieved 
from the safety database. Among these, there were 3 biopsy-confirmed cases with a positive 
rechallenge and three cases reporting a positive dechallenge, although only one was confirmed by 
biopsy. Overall, the cumulative data received to date, and in particular the 3 cases with a positive 
rechallenge, indicate that treatment with azacitidine is associated with the risk of pyoderma 
gangrenosum. Pyoderma gangrenosum should therefore be included as an adverse drug reaction in 
the summary of product characteristics of azacitidine with a frequency “uncommon”. The package 
leaflet should be updated accordingly. 
Cumulatively, 16 cases of tumour lysis syndrome have been reported to date, of which 7 during 
post-marketing experience. The cumulative data indicates that, even though patients initiating 
azacitidine are at risk of developing tumour lysis syndrome, the overall risk appears to be low. This 
is further supported by the finding that no cases of tumour lysis syndrome have occurred in 
marketing authorisation holder-sponsored studies. Currently tumour lysis syndrome is addressed in 
section 4.8 of the summary of product characteristics (frequency: rare), and listed as important 
identified risk in the risk management plan. The PRAC endorsed the MAH proposal to include an 
additional warning on tumour lysis syndrome in section 4.4 of the summary of product 
characteristics.  
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR(s), the PRAC considered that 
changes to the product information of medicinal products containing azacitidine were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for azacitidine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing azacitidine is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
EMA/152711/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
