EMA/450923/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000978 
EPAR summary for the public 
Vidaza 
azacitidine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Vidaza. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Vidaza. 
What is Vidaza? 
Vidaza is a medicine that contains the active substance azacitidine. It is available as a powder to be 
made up into a suspension for injection. 
What is Vidaza used for? 
Vidaza is used for the treatment of adults with the following diseases, if they cannot have 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (when the patient receives stem cells to restore the bone 
marrow’s ability to produce healthy blood cells): 
•  myelodysplastic syndromes, a group of conditions where too few blood cells are produced by the 
bone marrow. In some cases, myelodysplastic syndromes can lead to acute myeloid leukaemia 
(AML, a cancer affecting white blood cells called myeloid cells). Vidaza is used in patients with an 
intermediate to high risk of progressing to AML or death; 
• 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML, a cancer affecting white blood cells called monocytes). 
Vidaza is used when the bone marrow consists of 10 to 29% abnormal cells and the bone marrow 
is not producing large numbers of white blood cells; 
•  AML that has developed from a myelodysplastic syndrome and the bone marrow consists of 20 to 
30% abnormal cells; 
•  AML, when the bone marrow has more than 30% abnormal cells. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Because the number of patients with these diseases is low, the diseases are considered ‘rare’, and 
Vidaza was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 6 February 2002 for 
myelodysplastic syndromes and on 29 November 2007 for AML. At the time of orphan medicine 
designation, CMML was classified as a type of myelodysplastic syndrome. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Vidaza used? 
Vidaza treatment should be started and monitored under the supervision of a doctor experienced in the 
use of cancer medicines. Patients should receive medicines to prevent nausea (feeling sick) and 
vomiting before giving Vidaza. 
The recommended dose of Vidaza is 75 mg per square metre body surface area (calculated using the 
patient’s height and weight). It is given as an injection under the skin of the upper arm, thigh or 
abdomen (tummy) every day for one week, followed by three weeks with no treatment. This four-week 
period is one ‘cycle’. Treatment continues for at least six cycles and then for as long as it benefits the 
patient. The liver, kidneys and blood should be checked before each cycle. If the blood counts fall too 
low or if the patient develops kidney problems, the next treatment cycle should be delayed or a lower 
dose should be used.  
See the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR) for full details. 
How does Vidaza work? 
The active substance in Vidaza, azacitidine, belongs to the group ‘anti-metabolites’. Azacitidine is an 
analogue of cytidine, which means that it is incorporated into the genetic material of cells (RNA and 
DNA). It is thought to work by altering the way the cell turns genes on and off and also by interfering 
with the production of new RNA and DNA. These actions are thought to correct the problems with the 
maturation and growth of young blood cells in the bone marrow that cause myelodysplastic disorders, 
and to kill cancerous cells in leukaemia. 
How has Vidaza been studied? 
Vidaza has been studied in two main studies. The first study involved 358 adults with intermediate to 
high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes, CMML or AML, who were unlikely to go on to have a stem cell 
transplant. The patients’ bone marrow contained up to 30% abnormal cells. The second study involved 
488 patients with AML who were 65 years or older and could not have haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation. Their bone marrow contained more than 30% abnormal cells. Both studies compared 
Vidaza with conventional care (treatment chosen for each patient based on local practice and the 
patient’s condition). The main measure of effectiveness was how long the patients survived.  
What benefit has Vidaza shown during the studies? 
Vidaza was more effective than conventional care in extending survival. In the first study, patients 
receiving Vidaza survived for an average of 24.5 months, compared with 15.0 months in patients 
receiving conventional care. The effect of Vidaza was similar in all three diseases. 
In the second study in AML patients with more than 30% abnormal cells, patients receiving Vidaza 
survived for an average of 10.4 months, compared with 6.5 months in patients receiving conventional 
care. 
Vidaza  
EMA/450923/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What is the risk associated with Vidaza? 
The most common side effects of Vidaza in more than 60% of patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes, CMML or AML (20 to 30% abnormal cells) are blood reactions including thrombocytopenia 
(low platelet counts), neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell) and leucopenia 
(low white blood cell counts), side effects affecting the stomach and gut including nausea and 
vomiting, and injection site reactions. Side effects were similar in AML patients with more than 30% 
abnormal cells. For the full list of all side effects reported with Vidaza, see the package leaflet. 
Vidaza must not be used in patients with advanced liver cancer or in women who are breastfeeding. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Vidaza been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Vidaza’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vidaza? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vidaza have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Vidaza 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Vidaza on 17 December 2008. 
The full EPAR for Vidaza can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Vidaza, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summaries of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Vidaza can be found 
on the Agency’s website: here (myelodysplastic syndromes) and here (AML). 
This summary was last updated in 07-2016. 
Vidaza  
EMA/450923/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
