Part VI:  Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Viekirax 
This is a summary of the RMP for Ombitasvir/Paritaprevir/Ritonavir (Viekirax).  The 
RMP details important risks of Viekirax, how these risks can be minimized, and how 
more information will be obtained about Viekirax's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Viekirax's SmPC and its patient information leaflet (PIL) give essential information 
to HCPs and patients on how Viekirax should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Viekirax should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all of which are part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates 
of Viekirax's RMP. 
I  The Medicine and What it Is Used For 
Viekirax is indicated in combination with other medicinal products for the treatment 
of chronic hepatitis C (HCV) in adults (see SmPC for the full indication).  It contains 
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir as the active substance and it is given by oral 
route of administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Viekirax' benefits can be found in 
Viekirax' EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine's webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/viekirax. 
II  Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or 
Further Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of Viekirax, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Viekirax' risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use, in the PIL and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 
Important advice on the medicine's packaging; 
• 
•  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine's legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g., with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) 
assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary.  These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Viekirax is not yet 
available, it is listed under "missing information" below. 
II.A  List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Viekirax are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered.  Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified 
risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
Viekirax.  Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified 
risks 
Hepatic decompensation and hepatic failure in patients 
with cirrhosis. 
Important potential 
risks 
Depression and suicide 
Hepatotoxicity among non-users of ethinyl estradiol-
containing medications 
Lack of efficacy/Risk of resistance development 
Fetal development toxicity 
(ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir only; added to the EU 
RMP per CHMP request) 
Missing information  None 
II.B  Summary of Important Risks 
Important identified Risk - Hepatic decompensation and hepatic failure 
in patients with cirrhosis. 
 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Clinical trial data 
Postmarketing cases of hepatic decompensation and 
hepatic failure, including liver transplantation or fatal 
outcomes, have been reported. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment 
and advanced liver disease including cirrhosis. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
•  SmPC Section 4.2 - Posology and method of 
administration: Viekirax is contraindicated in 
patients with moderate to severe hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh B or C). 
•  SmPC Section 4.3 - Contraindication Patients 
with moderate to severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh B or C) are contraindicated. 
•  Patient Information Label (PIL) Section 2 - what 
you need to know before you take Viekirax 
provides information on signs of worsening liver 
problems. 
•  Monitoring of clinical signs and symptoms of 
hepatic decompensation included in SmPC 
Section 4.4. 
•  Prescription only medicine. 
•  Use of treatment should be initiated and 
supervised by specialists. 
•  Pack size. 
Important potential risk - Depression and suicide 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Post marketing data. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk groups may include HCV patients with prior 
medical histories of psychiatric conditions, including 
depression/major depression, bipolar disorder, 
anxiety, unspecified psychiatric conditions, or 
substance abuse. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
•  SmPC Section 4.4 - Special warnings and 
precautions for use provides information on 
depression and suicide. 
•  SmPC Section 4.8 - Undesirable effects. 
•  PIL Section 2 - What you need to know before 
you take Viekirax. 
•  A recommendation for patients and caregivers to 
notify on mood changes and of any suicidal 
ideation per SmPC Section 4.4. 
•  Prescription only medicine. 
•  Use of treatment should be initiated and 
supervised by specialist. 
•  Pack size. 
Important potential risk - Hepatotoxicity among non-users of ethinyl 
estradiol-containing medications 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Clinical trial dataset. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Patients taking Viekirax and Exviera with or without 
ribavirin. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
•  SmPC Section 4.4 - special warning and 
precautions include information on ALT 
elevations associated with non-estrogen 
containing products. 
•  PIL Section 2 - what you need to know before 
you take Viekirax provides information on signs 
of worsening liver problems. 
•  SmPC Section 4.4 provides specific information 
on early warning signs of liver inflammation. 
•  Prescription only medication. 
•  Use of treatment should be initiated and 
supervised by specialists. 
•  Pack size. 
Important potential risk – Lack of efficacy/Risk of resistance 
development 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Clinical trials and post-marketing reports. 
Off-label use, poor compliance, and medication 
errors (e.g., inappropriate schedule of drug 
administration) may result in suboptimal drug 
exposures that may lead to treatment failure.  For 
antiviral agents, this may lead to subsequent viral 
resistance development. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
•  SmPC Section 4.2 – Posology and method of 
administration, includes information on dosage 
and duration of treatment for patients for 
genotype 1a, 1b and 4 pending cirrhotic status. 
•  SmPC Section 4.3 special warning and 
precautions on genotype specific activity, 
combination with other antiviral agents or 
retreatment. 
•  PIL Section 3 – How to take Viekirax, advise to 
patients on appropriate dosing and 
administration to achieve maximal efficacy. 
•  Prescription only medication. 
•  Use of treatment should be initiated and 
supervised by specialists. 
•  Pack size. 
Important potential risk - Fetal development toxicity 
(ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir only; added to the EU RMP per CHMP 
request) 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
There are no human data regarding this potential 
risk.  Preclinical embryo-fetal development studies 
have shown fetal malformations in rabbits 
(ombitasvir; R&D/11/406) and mice 
(paritaprevir/ritonavir; R&D/09/1178). 
Clinical trial data for pregnancy outcome. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Female patients of childbearing potential who get 
exposed to a DAA regimen when they become 
pregnant or are pregnant. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
•  SmPC – Section 4.4, includes information for 
women of childbearing potential. 
•  SmPC – Section 4.6, includes information on 
contraception methods in women of childbearing 
potential and on potential harm to the fetus. 
•  SmPC – Section 5.3, includes preclinical 
information on maternal toxicity in animal 
studies. 
•  PIL Section 2, information on pregnancy and use 
of effective contraception methods for women of 
childbearing potential. 
•  Viekirax should not be used during pregnancy 
and the use of highly effective contraceptive 
methods is recommended in women of 
childbearing potential in SmPC Section 4.6. 
•  Prescription only medication. 
•  Use of treatment should be initiated and 
supervised by specialists. 
•  Pack size. 
II.C  Post-Authorization Development Plan 
II.C.1  Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no planned or ongoing studies that are conditions of the marketing 
authorization. 
II.C.2  Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
There are no other ongoing studies that are part of a post-authorization 
development plan. 
 
