EMA/555308/2018  
EMEA/H/C/003839 
Viekirax (ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir) 
An overview of Viekirax and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Viekirax and what is it used for? 
Viekirax is an antiviral medicine used in combination with other medicines to treat adults with chronic 
(long-term) hepatitis C, an infectious disease of the liver caused by the hepatitis C virus. 
It contains 3 active substances: ombitasvir, paritaprevir and ritonavir. 
How is Viekirax used? 
Viekirax can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in managing patients with chronic hepatitis C. 
Viekirax is available as tablets containing 12.5 mg ombitasvir, 75 mg paritaprevir and 50 mg ritonavir. 
The recommended dose is two tablets taken once a day with food for 8, 12 or 24 weeks. Viekirax is 
always used in combination with other medicines for chronic hepatitis C, such as dasabuvir and 
ribavirin. 
Several varieties (genotypes) of hepatitis C virus exist, and Viekirax is recommended for patients with 
virus of genotypes 1a, 1b and 4. The combination of medicines used and the duration of treatment will 
depend on the genotype of hepatitis C virus infecting the patient, the nature of the patient’s liver 
problems, for example if they have liver cirrhosis (scarring) or their liver is not working properly, and 
whether they have received previous treatment. 
For more information about using Viekirax, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Viekirax work? 
The 3 active substances in Viekirax work in different ways: ombitasvir blocks the action of a protein in 
the hepatitis C virus called ‘NS5A’ and paritaprevir blocks the action of another protein called ‘NS3/4A’, 
both of which the virus needs to multiply. By blocking these proteins, the medicine prevents the 
hepatitis C virus from multiplying and infecting new cells.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The third active substance, ritonavir, does not act directly against hepatitis C virus but it blocks the 
action of an enzyme called CYP3A that breaks down paritaprevir. This slows the removal of paritaprevir 
from the body, allowing paritaprevir to act against the virus for longer. 
What benefits of Viekirax have been shown in studies? 
In 6 initial main studies involving around 2,300 patients infected with hepatitis C virus genotypes 1a or 
1b, Viekirax in combination with dasabuvir was effective in clearing the virus from the blood. Between 
96% and 100% of patients without liver scarring had their blood cleared of the virus after 12 weeks of 
treatment (with or without ribivarin). In patients with liver scarring, Viekirax treatment in combination 
with dasabuvir and ribavirin resulted in a clearance rate of between 93% and 100% after 24 weeks of 
treatment.  
In a seventh study, patients with liver scarring but stable liver function (compensated cirrhosis) who 
had genotype 1b infection were treated with Exviera and Viekirax without ribavirin and 100% of 
patients (60 out of 60 patients) had their blood cleared of the virus. 
An additional study showed Viekirax to be effective against genotype 4: when given with ribavirin, 
Viekirax cleared this genotype from the blood of all the 91 patients infected with it after 12 weeks. 
When Viekirax was given with dasabuvir, the virus was cleared from the blood in 91% of the patients. 
What are the risks associated with Viekirax? 
The most common side effects with Viekirax in combination with dasabuvir and ribavirin (which may 
affect more than 1 in 5 people) are tiredness and nausea (feeling sick). 
Viekirax must not be used in patients with moderate to severe liver impairment and in women taking 
ethinylestradiol, an oestrogen found in hormonal contraceptives. It must also not be used together 
with medicines that can raise or lower the levels of Viekirax’s active substances in the blood. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Viekirax, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Viekirax authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency noted that Viekirax in combination with other medicines is effective in 
clearing the hepatitis C virus genotypes 1a, 1b and 4, including in patients with liver scarring. Almost 
all the patients with these genotypes treated in studies had the virus cleared from their blood. The 
clearance rate was particularly high in patients infected with genotypes 1b and 4.  
Although there were some cases of raised liver enzymes in patients treated with Viekirax in 
combination with dasabuvir and ribavirin, side effects with this combination were generally well 
tolerated. The Agency therefore decided that Viekirax’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Viekirax? 
The company that markets Viekirax will carry out a study in patients who have had liver cancer to 
evaluate the risk of liver cancer returning after treatment with direct-acting antivirals such as Viekirax. 
This study is being carried out in light of data suggesting that patients treated with these medicines 
who have had liver cancer could be at risk of their cancer returning early. 
Viekirax Viekirax (ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir)  
EMA/555308/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Viekirax have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Viekirax are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Viekirax are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Viekirax 
Viekirax received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 January 2015. 
Further information on Viekirax can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2018. 
Viekirax Viekirax (ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir)  
EMA/555308/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
