Vildagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord 
Procedural steps taken and scientific information after the authorisation 
Application 
Scope 
number 
Opinion/ 
Commission 
Product 
Summary 
Notification
Decision 
Information 
1 issued on 
Issued2 / 
affected3  
amended 
on 
IB/0002/G 
This was an application for a group of variations. 
01/06/2023 
SmPC and PL 
C.I.2.a - Change in the SPC, Labelling or PL of a 
generic/hybrid/biosimilar products following 
assessment of the same change for the reference 
product - Implementation of change(s) for which NO 
1 Notifications are issued for type I variations and Article 61(3) notifications (unless part of a group including a type II variation or extension application or a worksharing application). Opinions 
are issued for all other procedures. 
2 A Commission decision (CD) is issued for procedures that affect the terms of the marketing authorisation (e.g. summary of product characteristics, annex II, labelling, package leaflet). The 
CD is issued within two months of the opinion for variations falling under the scope of Article 23.1a(a) of Regulation (EU) No. 712/2012, or within one year for other procedures. 
3 SmPC (Summary of Product Characteristics), Annex II, Labelling, PL (Package Leaflet). 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
new additional data is required to be submitted by 
the MAH 
C.I.2.a - Change in the SPC, Labelling or PL of a 
generic/hybrid/biosimilar products following 
assessment of the same change for the reference 
product - Implementation of change(s) for which NO 
new additional data is required to be submitted by 
the MAH 
IB/0001/G 
This was an application for a group of variations. 
05/10/2022 
B.II.e.5.a.2 - Change in pack size of the finished 
product - Change in the number of units (e.g. 
tablets, ampoules, etc.) in a pack - Change outside 
the range of the currently approved pack sizes 
B.II.e.5.a.2 - Change in pack size of the finished 
product - Change in the number of units (e.g. 
tablets, ampoules, etc.) in a pack - Change outside 
the range of the currently approved pack sizes 
SmPC, 
Labelling and 
PL 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
