EMA/305791/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Vimpat 
lacosamide 
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000863/X/0027 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 4 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 5 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 8 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 8 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 10 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 10 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 10 
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................. 13 
2.9. Changes to the product information .................................................................... 13 
3. 
4. 
Benefit-Risk Balance
........................................................................... 13 
Recommendations
............................................................................... 13 
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 2/14
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant UCB Pharma SA submitted on 5 August 2011 an extension application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Vimpat 10 mg/ml Syrup in the treatment of 
partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in patients with epilepsy aged 16 years 
and older through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 19 (1) and Annex I point 2 indent 
c) of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008. 
UCB Pharma SA is already the Marketing Authorisation Holder for Vimpat 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg and 
200 mg film-coated tablets and 10 mg/ml solution for injection EU/1/08/470/001 – 013, and -016-017. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Vimpat is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the 
treatment of partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in patients with epilepsy 
aged 16 years and older. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 19 (1) and Annex I (point 2 intend c) of the Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008.  
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
At time of the initial submission of this extension application Art. 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
did not apply (no new indication, no new route of administration, and no new pharmaceutical form).  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
Vimpat has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the USA on 20 April 2010. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 3/14
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur: Tomas Salmonson 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 5 August 2011. 
The procedure started on 21 August 2011.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 October 
2011. In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the Rapporteur declared 
that he had completed the assessment report in less than 80 days. 
  During the meeting on 17-20 October 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 20 
October 2011. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 14 November 
2011. 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 25 November 2011. 
  During the meeting on 12-15 December 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Vimpat 10 mg/ml Syrup on 15 December 2011.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Vimpat was initially approved on 29 August 2008 as 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg and 200 mg film-coated 
tablets, 15 mg/ml syrup and 10 mg/ml solution for injection. It is indicated for use as adjunctive 
treatment in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in 
patients with epilepsy aged 16 years and older. 
Lacosamide is a member of a series of functionalized amino acids that were specifically synthesized as 
anticonvulsant drug candidates. Lacosamide has demonstrated antiepileptic activity in different rodent 
seizure models for generalized and complex partial-onset seizures and status epilepticus, i.e. maximal 
electroshock seizures (MES), hippocampal kindling, audiogenic seizures (AGS), self sustaining status 
epilepticus (SSSE), and in 1 chemoconvulsant-induced seizure model. It is also effective in animal 
models of neuropathic pain. Electrophysiological studies have shown that lacosamide enhances the 
slow inactivation of sodium channels by attenuating the proportion of available channels in a time- and 
voltage-dependent manner. This leads to a reduction of sodium channel long-term availability which 
increases activation thresholds and reduces hyperexcitability of neurons characteristic for both epilepsy 
and neuropathic pain. 
The MAH applied for an extension to the marketing authorization in order to introduce the 10 mg/ml 
lacosamide syrup. The application for MA of the 10 mg/ml syrup has been triggered by the fact that 
the former 15 mg/ml syrup had shown to be prone to precipitation of the active substance upon 
storage. The reason for this is that the 15 mg/ml syrup was supersaturated with respect to lacosamide. 
The 15 mg/ml syrup batches were withdrawn from the market and an Article 20 referral was initiated 
to review the risk-benefit of the product.  The 15 mg/ml syrup was deleted from the Marketing 
Authorisation on 24 November 2011. The 10 mg/ml syrup is intended to provide a liquid oral 
formulation to patients who have difficulties in swallowing and to replace the 15 mg/ml syrup. 
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 4/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The approved commercial dosage forms for Vimpat are 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg and 200 mg film-
coated tablets, and 10 mg/ml solution for injection. The subject of this line extension is the additional 
10mg/ml strength syrup. The formulation is qualitatively identical to the former 15 mg/ml syrup but 
quantitatively different.  
Vimpat 10 mg/ml syrup is a slightly viscous, clear, colourless to yellowish or yellowish-brown liquid 
packed in amber glass bottles with white polypropylene screw caps of 200 ml and 500 ml, filled with 
200 ml and 465 ml of product, respectively.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The active substance used in the new strength is the same as that used in the manufacture of the 
already approved formulations of Vimpat. There were no changes made to active substance and 
therefore no additional data was submitted. The CHMP endorsed this approach.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Lacosamide is a white to light yellow non-hygroscopic powder with a melting range of 140-146C. It 
can be considered a stable substance and the approved re-test period is 4 years.  
Log P (octanol/water) for lacosamide is estimated at 0.25. No pKa-value has been found in the pH 
range 1.5-12.3. The permeability of lacosamide has been investigated in absolute bioavailability 
studies and by in vitro experiments with propranolol as highly permeable reference standard across a 
monolayer of epithelial cells (Caco-2 monolayer). The results show that lacosamide can be considered 
a highly permeable substance with significantly higher permeability than the propranolol reference.  
Four crystalline forms and one amorphous form of lacosamide have been identified and characterised. 
The synthesis process provides a mixture of the crystalline Form 1 and Form 2 which have similar 
properties (e.g. regards solubility). The solubility of Form 1 and Form 2 have been investigated in 
aqueous media in the pH range 1-7.5 where lacosamide is sparingly soluble. The lowest solubility 
determined at 25C in these experiments was 20 mg/ml (Form 1:20.1 mg/ml and Form 2:20.8 mg/ml. 
The Applicant therefore regards the presence of either polymorph in the product at a concentration of 
10 mg/ml as non critical. Solubility testing at room temperature by supersaturation of the formulation 
confirmed that 17.1 mg of lacosamide can be dissolved in 1 ml of the matrix vehicle.  
Based on the high permeability and found sufficiently high solubility, the Applicant considers 
lacosamide as a BCS Class 1 substance.  
The particle size of lacosamide is not considered a critical parameter since the substance is completely 
dissolved in the formulation.  
The excipients of the product have been chosen with the aim to provide an acceptably tasting and 
stable product. The product contains a number of taste modifying agents, solubiliser/thickener, 
antimicrobial preservative and purified water. The excipients are qualitatively identical to those of the 
current 15 mg/ml syrup.  
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 5/14
 
 
 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to overcome the strong bitter taste of the drug 
substance. The sweeteners sorbitol and acesulfame potassium were included in the formulation since 
bitterness and sweetness will mutually suppress each other. Sodium chloride is added to further 
suppress bitterness but without impacting sweetness. In addition, two flavouring agents, strawberry 
flavour 501440 T and the bitter masking flavour 501521 T were included in the formulation. The 
combination of these two flavouring agents was found to be superior to other combinations of masking 
agents. The ingredients of the flavours comply with Directive 88/388 and are listed in the European 
Register of flavouring substances used in or on foodstuffs.  
An increase in viscosity, as accomplished by glycerol, carboxymethylcellulose and macrogol 4000, 
further reduces bitterness as a result of lower diffusion rate of lacosamide to the taste buds.  
It was found that the addition of preservative was needed to ensure the microbiological quality of the 
drug product. Thus, the antimicrobial preservative sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (2.60 mg/ml) 
is added to the formulation to inhibit microbiological growth. Purified water is used as solvent and citric 
acid is included to adjust the pH of the formulation to a physiologically well-tolerated range, 3.8-5.0.  
All excipients, except for the flavouring agents, are described in the Ph Eur and they comply with their 
respective monographs therein.  
The syrup formulation was developed to provide a dosage form for patients with difficulties in 
swallowing tablets. Initially the 10 mg/ml strength of lacosamide was intended but in order to reduce 
the necessary volume to be taken by the patient, the 15 mg/ml strength was developed and 
subsequently approved.  
In Q3 2010 a quality defect in the 15 mg/ml lacosamide syrup was reported. A flake-like precipitate 
was observed in the product which was identified as the active substance lacosamide. New solubility 
investigations revealed that the 15 mg/ml syrup is actually supersaturated with respect to lacosamide 
in the vehicle and that precipitation may occur in an unpredictable way during storage in any batch. 
Furthermore, homogeneity of the liquid phase in the bottles could not be demonstrated and the risk of 
incorrect dosing was acknowledged. This quality defect of the 15 mg/ml syrup triggered the current 
Marketing Authorisation Application for the lower strength, 10 mg/ml.   
Further solubility studies were performed and the thermodynamic activity of lacosamide in placebo 
matrixes of syrup was investigated. The results showed that the saturated solidity of lacosamide in the 
syrup matrix is above 10 mg/ml and therefore the risk fro precipitation is no longer present. However, 
since the saturated solubility at 5oC is close to the proposed syrup concentration of 10 mg/ml, the MAH 
will perform stability studies on the proposed formulation at refrigerated conditions to evaluate if a 
temperature storage precaution is necessary and as a precautionary measure, a warning has been 
added to the PI (“Do not refrigerate”).  
Biowaiver 
In the original application for the 15 mg/ml syrup, a bioequivalence study was submitted which 
demonstrated bioequivalence between film-coated tablets (used in clinical studies) and a 10 mg/ml 
syrup formulation. A biowaiver for the 15 mg/ml syrup was requested and granted on the basis that 
the lacosamide is in solution in the syrup and the composition with respect to excipients was regarded 
as similar in the two strengths. For the 10 mg/ml strength of the current application, a biowaiver was 
also requested based on the same bioequivalence study. To support the request for the biowaiver the 
following justifications have been provided:  
 
 
the active substance is completely in solution in the product,  
the highest strength is soluble in ≤250 ml of aqueous media in the pH range 1 to 7.5,  
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 6/14
 
 
 
 
the active substance is considered highly permeable having linear and complete absorption, 
about 95% after oral administration.   
 
the qualitative composition of the 10 mg/ml syrup used in the bioequivalence study and the 
10 mg/ml formulation currently proposed for marketing are considered similar and the minor 
differences are not expected to have any influence on the bioavailability.  
The request for a biowaiver for the 10 mg/ml lacosamide formulation with the proposed composition 
can therefore be granted.  
Adventitious agents 
The drug substance and all excipients are free of materials of human or animal origin. 
Manufacture of the product 
Vimpat syrup 10mg/ml is manufactured by two different manufacturers. There are some minor 
differences in the manufacturing process at the two proposed manufacturing sites. 
The manufacturing process is considered standard for this pharmaceutical form. The manufacturing 
process comprises the following major steps: (1) Dispersion of carboxymethylcellulose sodium in 
glycerol and part of the water, (2) Addition of sorbitol and macrogol 4000 (3) Addition and dissolution 
of lacosamide at 40-60°C (4) Addition of sodium chloride, citric acid and acesulfame potassium (5) 
Cooling the solution (6) Addition of antimicrobial preservative, flavours and the remaining quantity of 
purified water (7) Filtration and transfer into suitable polyethylene-coated fiberboard drums to the 
filling line (8) Filling. 
No critical steps have been identified but a number of stages are monitored by process controls to 
ensure process integrity. These include dispersion of carboxymethylcellulose sodium in glycerol, 
addition of lacosamide under heating, cooling the solution after dissolution of lacosamide, final volume 
adjustment, filtration of the solution, content and homogeneity of lacosamide in the syrup after 
filtration, checking the fill volume and cap torque check. 
Process validation has been conducted for the compounding step and the packaging steps will be 
validated post-approval. 
Product specification 
Adequate release and shelf-life specifications were validated for the drug product and include tests for: 
appearance (primary packaging material and contents of bottle), odour, colour, clarity, identity of 
lacosamide (HPLC and UV), identity of preservatives (HPLC), identity of flavouring agents and masking 
flavour (HPLC), purity (HPLC), pH, assay of lacosamide (HPLC),assay of the preservative (HPLC), 
microbiological purity (PhEur). Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose.  
Batch analyses data has been provided for three production scale batches form each of the 
manufacturers of the finished product. All batches complied with the set acceptance criteria.   
The proposed specifications are considered justified. The analytical methods have been validated 
according to ICH guidelines, where necessary.  Batch analysis data for the finished product have been 
provided from both manufacturing sites. The batches have been tested by the release testing site 
approved for testing the product in the US, but the results are reported against the proposed 
specifications of the current application.  
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 7/14
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies according to ICH guidelines have been initiated on three batches of the finished 
product (two of the batches are production scale and one batch is pilot scale). The finished product is 
packaged in 200 ml and 500 ml amber glass bottles which are stored both upright and horizontally. 
The storage conditions are long term 25C/60% RH and accelerated 40C/75% RH. The accelerated 
studies have been completed and 24 months of long term data are currently available. No significant 
changes have been observed with respect to any of the parameters studied and all results are within 
proposed specifications. The product batches complied with Ph Eur 5.1.3 requirements for preservative 
effectiveness. The microbial purity was also within specifications at all instances.  
A freeze-thawing study of product samples showed that upon thawing, there was some segregation of 
lacosamide substance in the bottles (more lacosamide in the bottom of the bottle and less at the top). 
If the bottles were shaken after thawing, the segregation of lacosamide disappeared.  The results of 
the freeze-thawing study, and the previous experience with precipitation in the 15 mg/ml syrup, 
suggests that a formal primary stability study at the refrigerated condition should be conducted in 
order to elucidate if there is a need for a storage precaution against lower temperatures.  Nonetheless, 
as a precautionary measure, a warning has been added to the product information (“Do not 
refrigerate”). 
An in-use stability study has also been conducted. Based on the available stability data, the proposed 
shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC are accepted.   
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The finished product is an oral solution. The critical feature of the drug product is the limited solubility 
of lacosamide. It has been shown that the product is stable at long term and accelerated ICH 
conditions. The concentration of the preservative has been justified. 
The request for a biowaiver for the 10 mg/ml lacosamide formulation with the proposed composition 
can be accepted from a pharmaceutical point of view. The 10 mg/ml lacosamide oral liquid formulation 
used in the bioequivalence study against the film-coated tablets has a composition which is sufficiently 
similar to the current 10 mg/ml product and a biowaiver can therefore be granted.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
No  new  non-clinical  data  were  provided  for  this  application.  The  CHMP  considered  that  no  additional 
non-clinical information was required in order to support benefit/risk evaluation of the 10 mg/ml syrup. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
No new clinical data were provided for this application. The CHMP considered that no additional clinical 
information was required in order to support benefit/risk evaluation of the 10 mg/ml syrup. 
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 8/14
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Lacosamide is an active substance available on the market as 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg and 200 mg 
film-coated tablets and a 10 mg/ml solution for injection. This line extension application concerns a 
lower strength of the syrup, i.e. 10 mg/ml. No pharmacokinetic studies have been submitted in 
support of this application and a biowaiver is proposed by the applicant. 
A brief summary of the pharmacokinetic properties (relevant to this assessment) for lacosamide is 
provided below based on information in section 5.2 of the SmPC. 
Lacosamide is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration. The oral bioavailability of 
lacosamide tablets is approximately 100%. Following oral administration, the plasma concentration of 
unchanged lacosamide increases rapidly and reaches Cmax about 0.5 to 4 hours post-dose. Vimpat 
tablets and oral syrup are bioequivalent. Food does not affect the rate and extent of absorption. 
95% of the dose is excreted in the urine as drug and metabolites. The metabolism of lacosamide has 
not been completely characterised. The major compounds excreted in urine are unchanged lacosamide 
(approximately 40% of the dose) and its O-desmethyl metabolite less than 30%. The elimination half-
life of the unchanged drug is approximately 13 hours. The pharmacokinetics is dose-proportional and 
constant over time, with low intra- and inter-subject variability. Following twice daily dosing, steady 
state plasma concentrations are achieved after a 3 day period. 
The CHMP concluded that lacosamide is uncomplicated from a pharmacokinetic point of view, with 
complete oral bioavailability, no food effect, dose-proportional and time independent pharmacokinetics 
and low intra- and inter-subject variability.  
In the original dossier, study SP657 was included, showing bioequivalence between lacosamide tablets 
and 10 mg/ml syrup. The statistical results from this study are depicted below: 
Table 1. Statistical results following single-dose administration of 200 mg LCM as syrup or tablet – 
Study SP657 
The CHMP noted that the composition of this syrup is not the same as the 10 mg/ml syrup under 
review. However, based on the uncomplicated pharmacokinetic characteristics of lacosamide and 
pharmaceutical considerations, the CHMP considered that a biowaiver was acceptable.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic data were submitted in support of this line extension application. The 
pharmacodynamic properties of lacosamide were characterised in the originally submitted dossier, and 
hence the CHMP considered that the lack of new pharmacodynamic data was acceptable for this 
application. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Based on the uncomplicated pharmacokinetic characteristics of lacosamide (e.g. complete oral 
bioavailability, no food effect and dose-proportional pharmacokinetics) and pharmaceutical 
considerations, the CHMP considered that a biowaiver was acceptable. 
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 9/14
 
 
 
 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The CHMP considered that a biowaiver was acceptable from a pharmacokinetic point of view and no 
questions were raised. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
No new studies on clinical efficacy have been submitted. The CHMP considered this to be acceptable.  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
No new studies on clinical safety have been submitted. The CHMP considered this to be acceptable.  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted an updated risk management plan.  
Table 1.  Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimization 
Activities (routine and 
additional) 
Important identified risks 
Cardiac AEs that may 
be potentially 
associated with PR 
interval prolongation 
and sodium channel 
modulation 
Enhanced and routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Post-Authorization Safety Study 
SP942 to evaluate the long-term  
safety and tolerability of Vimpat® 
as add-on therapy in uncontrolled 
epilepsy patients with partial-onset 
seizures 
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
SPC Section 4.3 
Contraindication for known second- 
or third-degree atrioventricular (AV) 
block.  
SPC Section 4.4 
Information on cardiac rhythm and 
conduction with lacosamide. Caution 
in patients with known conduction 
problems or severe cardiac disease 
and when treating elderly patients as 
they may be at an increased risk of 
cardiac disorders.  
Awareness of symptoms associated 
with second-degree or higher AV 
block (eg, slow or irregular pulse, 
feeling of lightheaded and fainting) 
and of the symptoms of atrial 
fibrillation and flutter (eg, 
palpitations, rapid or irregular pulse, 
shortness of breath) and that 
patients should be counseled to seek 
medical advice should any of these 
symptoms occur. 
SPC Section 4.5 
Caution in patients treated with 
medicinal products known to be 
Page 10/14
 
 
 
 
associated with PR prolongation and 
in patients treated with class I 
antiarrhythmic drugs.  
SPC Section 4.8 
Information that adverse reactions 
associated with PR interval 
prolongation (eg, atrioventricular 
block, syncope, bradycardia) may 
occur. 
Atrioventricular block and 
bradycardia are uncommon ADRs. 
Atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter are 
proposed uncommon ADRs.  
SPC Section 5.3 
Information on cardiac effects of 
intravenous administration of 
lacosamide in anesthetized dogs 
showed transient increases in PR 
interval and QRS complex duration 
and decreases in blood pressure. In 
dogs and Cynomolgus monkeys, at 
15-60 mg/kg, slowing of atrial and 
ventricular conductivity, 
atrioventricular block and 
atrioventricular dissociation were 
seen. 
Suicidality as an 
antiepileptic product 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC Section 4.4 
Post-Authorization Safety Study 
SP942 to evaluate the long-term  
safety and tolerability of Vimpat® 
as add-on therapy in uncontrolled 
epilepsy patients with partial-onset 
seizures 
Advice that treatment with 
antiepileptic drugs has been 
associated with suicidal ideation and 
behaviour and that patients should 
be monitored. 
SPC Section 4.8 (proposed) 
Suicide attempt and suicidal ideation 
are uncommon ADRs. 
Dizziness 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC Section 4.4 
Advice that treatment with 
lacosamide has been associated with 
dizziness which could increase the 
occurrence of accidental injury or 
falls.  
SPC Section 4.7 
Information that VIMPAT may have a 
minor to moderate influence on the 
ability to drive and use machines. 
Advice not to drive a car or to 
operate other potentially hazardous 
machinery until patients are familiar 
with the effects of VIMPAT.  
SPC Section 4.8 
Information that the most common 
adverse reaction resulting in 
discontinuation of lacosamide 
therapy was dizziness. 
Dizziness is a very common ADR. 
Page 11/14
Important potential risks 
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
 
 
 
 
Potential for 
hepatotoxicity 
Potential for 
worsening of 
seizures 
Potential for abuse 
as a CNS-active 
product 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
SPC Section 4.8 (proposed) 
Liver function test abnormal is an 
uncommon ADR. 
Information about abnormalities in 
liver function tests that were 
observed in controlled trials. 
SPC Section 5.3 
Information on mild reversible liver 
changes observed in rats starting at 
about 3 times the clinical exposure 
after repeated dosing. 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
NA 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC Section 4.8 (proposed) 
Euphoric mood is an uncommon ADR 
Post-Authorization Safety Study 
SP942 to evaluate the long-term  
safety and tolerability of Vimpat® 
as add-on therapy in uncontrolled 
epilepsy patients with partial-onset 
seizures 
Important missing information 
Pregnant or lactating 
women 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC Section 4.6  
Pregnancy registry 
Information that there are no 
adequate data from the use of 
lacosamide in pregnant women. The 
potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Lacosamide should not be used 
during pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary.  
Information that it is unknown 
whether lacosamide is excreted in 
human breast milk. For precautionary 
measures, breast-feeding should be 
discontinued during treatment with 
LACOSAMIDE. 
SPC Section 5.3  
Information that no teratogenic 
effects but embryotoxicity at 
maternal toxic doses was observed in 
preclinical studies.   
Pediatric patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
SPC Section 4.2 
VIMPAT is not recommended for use 
in children and adolescents below the 
age of 16 as there is no data on 
safety and efficacy in these age 
groups. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below ongoing 
pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns:  
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 12/14
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Due date 
Non-interventional, post-authorisation safety study SP492 to evaluate the long-
31/12/2012 
term safety and tolerability of Vimpat® (lacosamide) as add-on therapy in 
epilepsy patients with partial-onset seizures that are uncontrolled on current 
therapy. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
2.8.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Vimpat 15 mg/ml syrup. The bridging report submitted 
by the applicant was found to be acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.9. Changes to the product information 
Summary of product characteristics, labelling and package leaflet 
The MAH took the opportunity to update the product information according to the last QRD template, 
version 8. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Overall the CHMP concluded the addition of the 10 mg/ml Vimpat syrup to the currently approved 
tablets will provide a suitable dosage form for patients with difficulties in swallowing tablets and will 
avoid the risk of precipitation resulting from the former 15 mg/ml syrup strength. The CHMP 
considered that the benefit/risk of lacosamide has not been adversely affected by the data presented in 
this extension application. Therefore, the risk/benefit profile of lacosamide continues to be favourable. 
4. Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Vimpat 10 mg/ml syrup in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with 
or without secondary generalisation in patients with epilepsy aged 16 years and older is favourable and 
therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.  
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 13/14
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Vimpat 
Assessment report  
EMA/305791/2012 
Page 14/14
 
 
 
 
