European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/460925/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Vimpat 
International Nonproprietary Name: lacosamide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000863 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 4 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 11 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 24 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 45 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 48 
Page 2 of 52 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant UCB Pharma S.A. (previously Schwarz Pharma AG) submitted on 2 May 2007 an 
application for Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Vimpat, 
through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 18 October 2006.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is a complete dossier composed of administrative information, complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries: USA (28 September 2007). 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  
Co-Rapporteur:  Giuseppe Nisticó 
Tomas P Salmonson 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 2 May 2007. 
The procedure started on 23 May 2007.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 August 
2007. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 3 
August 2007.  
During the meeting on 17-20 September 2007, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 September 2007. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 21 
February 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 07 April 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 21-24 April 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of outstanding issues on 
22 May 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the list 
of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 11 June 2008. 
During the meeting on 23-26 June 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Vimpat on 26 June 2008. The applicant provided the letter of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 26 June 2008. 
Page 3 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
The proposed indication for Vimpat (lacosamide) is adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-
onset seizures with or without secondary generalization in patients with epilepsy aged 16 years and 
older.  
Lacosamide was synthesized as a member of a family of functionalized amino acids, more 
specifically, analogues of the endogenous amino acid and NMDA-receptor modulator D-serine. 
The mechanism of action of lacosamide has to be considered still not fully elucidated. However, a dual 
mode of action is hypothesised:  it selectively enhances slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium 
channels (VGSC) and interacts with collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2), a protein 
mainly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) and involved in neuronal differentiation and 
axonal outgrowth. 
Lacosamide showed an antiepileptic activity in different rodent seizure models for generalized and 
complex partial-onset seizures and status epilepticus. 
Epilepsy which is defined by the recurrence of spontaneous/unprovoked seizures – i.e. seizures not 
provoked by systemic, metabolic or toxic disorders – constitutes a vast ensemble of very diverse 
clinical situations which differ by age of onset, type of seizures, aetiological background, resulting 
handicap, prognosis and response to treatment. More than 50 million adults and children are estimated 
to suffer from epilepsy world-wide. The two highest peaks of incidence are in children and in the 
elderly population (above 65 years). Prevalence estimates of epilepsy in the total population varies 
from 4 to 8 per 10000 subjects. The classification of epileptic seizures is based on clinical 
manifestation. The 3 main types are generalized, partial-onset (which may become secondarily 
generalized), and unclassified. Partial-onset epilepsies, associated with a local cerebral lesion, are the 
most frequent, representing approximately 60% of cases. Generalized epilepsies represent 
approximately 30% of cases. In the remaining 10% of seizures, the classification is uncertain. 
Although some forms of epilepsy may benefit from surgical treatment and others may not require any 
treatment at all, most patients with epilepsy require chronic pharmacological therapy. In the past 
decade, several new options for the medical treatment of epilepsy have been introduced, including 
novel antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and vagus nerve stimulation (VNS). The new AEDs differ from 
older agents in several important ways, including mechanism of action, spectrum of activity, and 
pharmacokinetics. However, more than 30% of patients still have inadequate seizure control or 
experience significant adverse drug effects on currently available AEDs. Therefore, there is still a need 
for AEDs with improved effectiveness and tolerability. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Vimpat application comprises three different pharmaceutical formulations: 
film-coated tablets containing 50, 100, 150 and 200 mg of lacosamide as active substance, 
− 
−  oral solution containing 15 mg/ml of lacosamide as active substance, 
− 
solution for infusion containing 10 mg/ml of lacosamide as active substance, 
The ingredients of the film-coated tablets are: microcrystalline cellulose, crospovidone, hydroxypropyl 
cellulose, low-substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose, magnesium stearate (vegetable origin), silicified 
microcrystalline cellulose (Prosolv HD 90) and purified water.  
The film-coated tablets are packaged in PVC/PVDC blisters sealed with aluminium foils. 
The oral solution contains the following ingredients: glycerol, carboxymethylcellulose, sorbitol (liquid 
crystallizing), macrogol 4000, sodium chloride, anhydrous citric acid, acesulfam potassium, sodium 
propyl parahydroxybenzoate, sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate, purified water, strawberry 
flavours and masking flavours. 
Page 4 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The oral solution is packed in glass type III, or PET, bottles with childproof and tamper-evident PP 
cap. For dosing purposes a 15 mL polypropylene measuring cup is provided. 
Finally, the solution for infusion contains sodium chloride, diluted (10%) hydrochloric acid and water 
for injections. The solution for infusion is packaged in type I glass vials closed with a latex-free 
chlorobutyl rubber stopper coated with a fluoropolymer on the lower side. 
Active Substance  
INN Name: 
Chemical name:  
Structural formula: 
Lacosamide 
(R)-2-Acetamido-N-benzyl-3-methoxypropionamide (IUPAC) 
C13H18N2O3 
Molecular formula:  
Relative molecular mass: 250.30 
Lacosamide is a white to light yellow non-hygroscopic powder sparingly soluble in aqueous solvents 
at both 25°C and 37°C and it may be classified as a Biopharmaceutics Classification System (BCS) 
class 1 drug substance. Its chemical name is (R)-2-acetamido-N-benzyl-3-methoxypropionamide. 
Four crystalline modifications and one amorphous form of lacosamide have been identified but only 
crystalline polymorphs 1 and 2 are routinely formed in the synthesis processes. 
The R-configuration constitutes the active substance which is validated as enantiomerically pure. 
•  Manufacture 
The commercial synthesis process comprises five steps, which are followed by recrystallization. The 
manufacturers use two slightly different synthesis processes but the chemical bond forming reactions 
are the same.  
Stereospecificity is ensured by the control of the starting material D-serine (this configuration is 
maintained during synthesis) and control of the drug substance; the HPLC procedure used for chiral 
procedure has been validated.  
The polymorphic forms were characterised.  
The crystalline modifications 1 and 2 are routinely formed in the synthesis processes, and only these 
forms are present in active substance batches; this is controlled from the IR spectra. 
Adequate In-Process Controls are applied during the manufacture of the active substance. The 
specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents, have 
been presented and are satisfactory. Batch analysis data produced with the proposed synthetic routes 
provided show that the active substance can be manufactured reproducibly. 
•  Specification 
The active substance specifications includes tests for appearance, identity (IR spectrum and HPLC) 
melting point, water contents, heavy metals, sulphated ash/residue on ignition, residual solvents (GC), 
related substances (HPLC), chiral purity (HPLC), specific optical rotation, assay for lacosamide 
(HPLC) microbiological purity, bacterial endotoxins (turbidimetric kinetic method). The specifications 
Page 5 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The analytical methods used in the routine 
controls are suitabily described. The validation studies of all methods are in accordance with the ICH 
Guidelines. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
The results comply with the specifications, and show good uniformity from batch to batch. 
Batches of lacosamide that have been used in the manufacture of lacosamide solution for infusion 
were tested for microbiological purity and endotoxins.  
•  Stability 
Stability studies were conducted according to ICH conditions. The long term data from lacosamide 
batches stored at 25°C/60% RH do not show any change in appearance, melting point, water content, 
chromatographic purity, chiral purity or assay. All results remain within the specification over the 
tested period of up to 48 months. Also, under intermediate and accelerated conditions no changes have 
occurred up to 2 years of storage. 
Forced degradation studies (heat and humidity stress, acid or alkaline conditions, oxidizing conditions 
and photostability stress) were performed to determine the stability of Lacosamide in solid state and in 
solution under various stress conditions. Lacosamide analyzed by HPLC revealed that lacosamide is 
very stable under most tested conditions. There is no significant racemisation under normal conditions. 
The drug substance is not sensitive to oxidation or light. A remarkable degradation was only observed 
in solution under strong acidic or alkaline conditions. 
An acceptable post-approval protocol and stability commitment has been provided. The stability data 
presented support the proposed re-test period with no special storage requirements. 
Medicinal Product  
The drug products of this application comprise immediate release film-coated tablets containing 50, 
100, 150 or 200 mg of lacosamide, a syrup containing 15 mg /ml of the active substance and also an 
isotonic solution for infusion containing 10 mg/ml of lacosamide. 
Film-coated tablets 
•  Pharmaceutical Development     
The properties of lacosamide suggested that a tablet manufacturing process based upon wet 
granulation might be suitable (high solubility and high permeability but low flowability). 
The tablet formulations used in clinical trials comprise white 50 and 100 mg tablets. During clinical 
development it became clear that higher dosage strengths than those used in the clinical trials were 
needed and the range of six strengths was developed. A dose proportional formulation was chosen, the 
advantage being that all strengths could be manufactured from one granulation. 
To improve flow characteristics of lacosamide, a granulation with microcrystalline cellulose and low 
substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose was selected using a binder solution consisting of hydroxypropyl 
cellulose dissolved in water. According to studies conducted it appears that the particle size of 
lacosamide has no effect on processing or the tablet dissolution behaviour. 
The manufacturing process has been sufficiently described and critical aspects taken into consideration 
are the high amount of active substance in granulate and tablets, the granulation drying process and the 
compression speed and force during tabletting. 
All excipients are commonly used in this type of product and are compendial substances: 
microcrystalline cellulose (filler), low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose (solid binder), 
hydroxypropyl cellulose (binder in the granulation liquid), silicified microcrystalline cellulose (for 
improving flow properties of the blend), crospovidone (disintegrant) and magnesium stearate 
Page 6 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(lubricant). Silicified microcrystalline cellulose (Prosolv HD 90) is composed of the compendial 
components microcrystalline cellulose and colloidal silicon dioxide. Non-functional ready-to-use 
commercial film-coating agents are used to improve the appearance of the tablets and to facilitate 
swallowing; each dosage is coated with different colours 
None of the materials used in the synthesis of lacosamide drug substance and excipients used in the 
film-coated tablets are of animal or human origin and therefore there is no risk of TSE contamination. 
The lacosamide film-coated tablets are packaged in PVC/PVDC-aluminium blisters. 
The components of the composite film material and the aluminium foil comply with current EU 
guidelines. 
No interaction between the tablets and the chosen immediate packaging material, PVC/PCDC/Al 
blisters, has been observed during stability testing. 
There are no significant effects of polymorphism on dissolution / bioavailability, therefore it is not 
necessary to control it. Similarly, particle size of Lacosamide has no effect on dissolution of the 
product.  
•  Manufacture of the Product   
The lacosamide tablets are manufactured by a conventional wet granulation process, fluid bed drying, 
compression and film-coating. The granulate is common for all strengths. Narrative descriptions and 
flow charts valid for all strengths of tablet have been provided. The equipment used in the different 
steps has been indicated. The same manufacturing process is used at the two manufacturing sites. 
The manufacture of the product is considered as standard. Therefore a process validation plan for 
production scale batches has been provided and the applicant plans to complete the process validation 
before marketing of the product. The six strengths of tablets being dose proportional, the process 
validation will be performed according to a bracketing design what is considered as acceptable.  
•  Product Specification   
The product specifications include tests by validated methods for appearance, identity tests of 
lacosamide (HPLC, UV) impurities (HPLC, single and total) water content (KF), dissolution (HPLC), 
assay for lacosamide (HPLC), uniformity of dosage unit (PhEur) and microbiological purity (PhEur).  
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance and were found to be 
adequate to control the quality of the active substance.  
Control of impurities has been sufficiently justified and the applicant has committed to tighten the 
total impurities shelf life limits. 
The batch analysis data shows that the film-coated tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according 
to the agreed finished product specification. 
•  Stability of the Product   
Three supportive batches of white film-coated tablets (clinical trial formulation), twelve primary 
stability batches of white film-coated tablets and six coloured primary stability batches were subjected 
to long term and accelerated stability studies according to ICH Q1A. According to ICH Q1D, for the 
white film-coated tablets a bracketing design was applied.  
By testing one batch of each manufacturing site per strength, both sites were covered. 
All batches were packaged in PVC/PVDC/Alu-blister.  
The testing includes appearance, chromatographic purity, water content, dissolution and assay (95.0 – 
105.0%). Microbiological purity is tested at release and at the end of stability testing. 
Based on the available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the 
SPC are accepted. 
Page 7 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oral solution 
•  Pharmaceutical Development  
The syrup was developed to provide a dosage form for patients with difficulties in swallowing tablets. 
Because the drug substance is dissolved during the manufacture of the oral solution, the particle size 
of lacosamide is not a relevant parameter to the performance of the finished product.  
The excipients were chosen in order to provide an acceptable tasting and stable syrup. For this 
purpose, the syrup contains taste modifying excipients, solubilizer / thickener, antimicrobial 
preservatives as well as purified water.  
The excipients used are acesulfame potassium, carboxymethylcellulose sodium, anhydrous citric acid, 
glycerol, macrogol 4000, sodium chloride, sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate, sodium propyl 
parahydroxybenzoate, liquid sorbitol and purified water which are tested according to the 
corresponding monographs of the PhEur, and also strawberry flavour and masking flavour which are 
tested according to in-house specifications.  
No excipients are used which are of ruminant or human origin. Compatibility of the active substance 
with the excipients was proven by stability testing of the complete formulation. Satisfactory stability is 
ensured by a preservative system with sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate and sodium propyl 
parahydroxybenzoate. 
However, the toxicological information available regarding propyl parahydroxybenzoate showed some 
inadequacies and uncertainties. Detection of effects on sex hormones and the male reproductive organs 
in juvenile rats led to concluded recently that no Acceptable Daily Intake can be recommended for 
propyl paraben because of the lack of a clear NOAEL1. Although this concerns only one study and the 
human relevance of the adverse effects in juvenile rats is unknown (but cannot be excluded), the 
intake of propyl paraben when using lacosamide oral solution with the proposed formulation (0.20 
mg/mL) cannot be considered as safe. Therefore, the CHMP requested the applicant to initiate a 
development program to remove the preservative propyl parahydroxy benzoate sodium from the 
formulation of the lacosamide syrup. The applicant committed to submit in an agreed time frame the 
necessary regulatory application as a post-approval Follow-Up measure in order to register the 
reformulated syrup. 
The finished product is packaged in glass or polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles. The bottles are 
equipped with white tamper-evident polypropylene (PP) caps. The glass complies with the 
requirements of PhEur 3.2.1 Glass containers for pharmaceutical use, type III. The polyethylene 
terephthalate resin complies with the European requirements and also with the PhEur requirements. 
For dosing purposes a 15 ml CE marked polypropylene measuring cup is provided. 
•  Manufacture of the Product   
The manufacturing process is considered standard for this pharmaceutical form. The manufacturing 
process include mixing steps of active substances and excipients followed by filtration and filling in 
bottles and closing.  
No critical process parameters were identified. However, a number of them were controlled to ensure 
that the process will consistently produce a product meeting its pre-determined specifications and 
quality attributes.  
1 Opinion of the Scientific Panel on Food Additives, Flavourings, Processing Aids and Materials in Contact with 
Food on a request from the Commission related to para hydroxybenzoates. The EFSA Journal (2004)83 
Page 8 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Since the manufacturing process is considered standard, no validation data has been provided and the 
process validation on three consecutive oral solution production scale batches is to be completed prior 
marketing. 
•  Product Specification   
The product specifications include tests by validated methods for appearance, identity tests of 
lacosamide (HPLC, UV) impurities (HPLC, single and total) water content (KF), dissolution (HPLC), 
assay for lacosamide (HPLC), uniformity of dosage unit (PhEur) and microbiological purity (PhEur).  
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance and were found to be 
adequate to control the quality of the active substance.  
Control of impurities has been sufficiently justified and the applicant has committed to tighten the 
total impurities shelf life limits. 
Adequate release and shelf-life specifications are validated for the drug product and include for 
example tests for: appearance (primary packaging material and contents of bottle), odour, colour, 
clarity, identity of lacosamide (HPLC and UV), identity of preservatives (HPLC), identity of 
flavouring agents and masking flavour (HPLC), purity (HPLC), pH, assay of lacosamide (HPLC), 
assay of preservatives (HPLC), microbiological purity(PhEur) 
Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose.  
Batch analysis data are presented for the four primary stability batches and one batch used in the 
bioequivalence study. All batches in the respective packages complied with the proposed 
specifications. 
•  Stability of the Product  
Stability studies have been performed on four production batches of lacosamide 15mg/mL syrup under 
ICH conditions. Bottle-cap combinations with improved design were proposed for market launch and 
confirmatory stability study are now being carried out on three primary batches. Currently, 12 months 
data are available at long term conditions (25°C/60% RH), intermediate (30°C/65% RH,) and 
accelerated (40°C/75% RH) storage conditions. Intermediate and accelerated studies have been 
finalised. 
All results complied with the proposed specifications. This is also true for the results from accelerated 
storage of all batches but exposure of lacosamide solutions for infusion formulation to high 
temperatures has resulted in the formation of particles during the development phase of the infusion.   
Although the packaging material used in the stability studies is not exactly the same as intended for 
marketing, they are sufficiently similar to be considered as fully representative for the package 
intended for marketing. Also, storage of inverted bottles, studies at 5°C and thermal cycling studies 
between -20°C and 40°C/75% RH have been carried out. An in-use study has also been performed.  
The following tests are performed during the stability studies: appearance, odour, colour, clarity, pH, 
chromatographic purity, lacosamide assay (HPLC), preservatives assay and microbiological purity 
(PhEur). Adequate microbial preservation has been demonstrated throughout the shelflife.  
An in-use stability study has also been conducted. Based on the available stability data, the proposed 
shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC are accepted. 
Page 9 of 52 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solution for infusion 
•  Pharmaceutical Development   
Lacosamide isotonic solution for infusion 10 mg/mL has been developed as an emergency medication 
when oral administration is temporarily not feasible.  
The applicant has demonstrated that there is no formation of the (S)-enantiomer during manufacture or 
upon storage. 
Terminal sterilisation by autoclave generates visible particles in the solution. In order to avoid the 
formation of visible particles, a number of formulations taking into account the pH, and the 
concentration of the active substance were prepared during development and a sterilisation filtration 
process was chosen for the marketing presentation.  
The solution for infusion contains sodium chloride as tonicity agent, dilute hydrochloric acid for pH 
adjustment and water for injections as diluent. All of them are compendial and very common 
ingredients for this pharmaceutical form. No excipients are used which are of ruminant or human 
origin. 
The solution for infusion is packaged in clear colourless type I glass vials according to PhEur and 
closed with a latex-free chlorobutyl rubber stopper coated with a fluoropolymer on the lower. 
•  Manufacture of the Product  
Lacosamide solution for infusion 10 mg/mL is manufactured by preparing an aqueous solution of 
lacosamide, sodium chloride for tonicity adjustment and diluted hydrochloric acid for pH-adjustment 
to the target pH. Afterwards, this solution is sterile filtered and filled into vials under aseptic 
conditions. 
The manufacturing process has been well described, critical steps have been identified and adequate 
process controls are applied. The solution is tested for bioburden before sterilization by filtration. The 
integrity of the container closure system has been demonstrated. The manufacturing process has been 
satisfactorily validated with emphasis on the compounding, sterile filtration and filling steps. Results 
from successful media fills have been provided. 
•  Product Specification   
The specification for lacosamide solution for infusion includes tests for appearance, clarity (PhEur), 
colour (PhEur), extractable volume (PhEur), osmolality (PhEur), identity of lacosamide (HPLC, UV), 
identity of chloride and sodium, pH (PhEur), particulate matter (PhEur), chromatographic purity, assay 
of lacosamide (HPLC), sterility (PhEur) and bacterial endotoxins (PhEur). The analytical methods 
have been validated according to ICH guidelines, where necessary. 
One specified degradation product is included in the specification; the shelf-life limit is toxicologically 
qualified.  
Batch analysis data have been presented for clinical trial batches as well as the primary stability and 
validation batches. All batches complied with the proposed specifications.  
•  Stability of the Product   
Long term, intermediate and accelerated stability data for two supportive and four primary stability 
batches of lacosamide solution for infusion packaged in the marketing package have been provided.  
One of the primary batches is stored both in an up-right and inverted position and two of the batches 
have been included in a stability study at 5°C, and one at -20°C.  
Page 10 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The accelerated (6 months) and intermediate (12 months) studies have been completed, and up to 24 
months of long term data for the primary stability batches have been provided. For one of the 
supportive batches 36 months of long term data are available.  
Based on the available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the 
SPC are accepted 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner in the three pharmaceutical forms (film-coated tablets, oral 
solution and solution for infusion). The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity 
of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product 
should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. Bioequivalence between the 
different oral forms has been demonstrated (see clinical part of this report). Since the product is an 
anti-epileptic, precise limits for assay of the active substance have been imposed at end of shelf life, to 
minimise the variability in dose for the patient.  
The CHMP requested the applicant to initiate a development program to remove the preservative 
propyl parahydroxy benzoate sodium from the formulation of the lacosamide syrup. The applicant 
committed to submit in an agreed time frame the necessary regulatory application as a post-approval 
Follow-Up measure in order to register the reformulated syrup. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product.  
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
The nonclinical development program of lacosamide for chronic use by oral and intravenous 
administration was conducted in accordance with the ICH guideline ICH M3 (R1). 
All pivotal safety pharmacology and toxicology studies, including the determination of plasma 
concentrations of lacosamide, were carried out in conformance with Good Laboratory Practice 
 (GLP) standards as claimed by the applicant. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
From the results of in vivo/in vitro studies, two possible mechanisms of action have been suggested for 
lacosamide: 
1.  Binding of the active R-enantiomer of lacosamide to the collapsin response mediator protein-2 
(CRMP-2), which has been shown to be involved in neuronal differentiation, polarization, and 
axonal outgrowth induced by neurotrophic factors such as brain derived neurotrophic factor. 
Lacosamide was demonstrated to attenuate nerve growth factor-induced axonal growth but not 
basal neural outgrowth. 
2.  Selective enhancement of sodium channel slow inactivation, without effects on fast inactivation. 
This effect can result in normalization of activation thresholds and a reduced pathophysiological 
hyperresponsiveness thereby effectively controlling neuronal hyperexcitability 
Lacosamide was tested in different models of chemoconvulsant-induced seizures, and did not block 
generalized tonic-clonic convulsions induced by the GABAA-receptor antagonist bicuculline, and the 
chloride-channel blocker picrotoxin. Lacosamide was also ineffective against clonic seizures induced 
by the sc bolus injection of the chemoconvulsant pentylenetetrazole in rats and mice. Lacosamide at 
20 and 50 mg/kg ip, completely antagonized tonic convulsions, and at 50 mg/kg also partially 
antagonized clonic convulsions induced by NMDA in male mice. 
Lacosamide, but not the S-enantiomer nor its main metabolite SPM 12809, protected both mice and 
rats against seizures induced by maximal electroconvulsive shock (MES), indicating that lacosamide is 
Page 11 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effective in preventing seizure spread. Lacosamide was also tested in a model of electrostimulated 
limbic seizures in the mouse which demonstrated protection against clonic seizures and stereotyped 
behaviour. 
Lacosamide was effective in the hippocampal kindling model, thought to reproduce complex partial 
seizure. Lacosamide was also equally effective in this model when compared with reference 
antiepileptic drugs (phenytoin, carbamazepine, valproic acid, and ethosuximide) administered at 
maximally effective doses. 
Lacosamide was also active in models of status epilepticus. Limbic seizures induced by self-sustaining 
status epilepticus in rats stopped within 15 min after lacosamide injection and did not recur over the 
next 24 h. 
A neuroprotective ability was observed as histological examination of brain sections (dorsal 
hippocampus) collected 72 h after status epilepticus which revealed significantly less damage in 
lacosamide-treated rats compared with control animals. 
Lacosamide was without effect in a genetic animal model for absence epilepsy. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
An extensive number of secondary pharmacodynamic studies demonstrated antinoceptive effects in 
animal models of neuropathic pain, acute and chronic inflammatory pain, in cancer and 
musculoskeletal pain but not in visceral pain. A neuroprotective effect of lacosamide was seen in vitro 
at concentrations (≥ 1 µmol/L). A significant reduction (25 mg/kg ip) in infarct volume was seen in 
one animal model for neuroprotection in vivo, while another study on infarct volume was negative. An 
indication of effect against tardive dyskinesia was demonstrated in mice at a dose of 30 mg/kg ip. 
Furthermore, lacosamide at doses at and above 1 mg/kg was effective in an animal model for essential 
tremor. Slight effect was noted in some animal models for psychiatric disorders. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology studies were performed in mice, rats, dogs and monkeys or in established in 
vitro models, on the central nervous, cardiovascular and respiratory systems in accordance with 
relevant recommendations and guidelines ICH S7A (2000) and ICH S7B (2005). In addition effects on 
renal and gastrointestinal autonomic nervous systems have been evaluated. Animal studies on 
potential abuse liability were conducted in accordance with the EMEA “Guideline on the non-clinical 
investigation of the dependence potential of medicinal products” (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/94227/2004) 
(see Toxicology part, Dependence). 
Central nervous system 
Early neuropharmacological screening test in male mice: no effects were found (10mg/kg ip). 
Motor coordination (rotarod test) in male mice and rats: lacosamide dose-dependently impaired 
rotarod performance in mice (8, 16 and 32 mg/kg ip) and in rats (32, 64 and 128 mg/kg), with 
significant effects at 32 mg/kg in both species.  
Series of Irwin tests (as part of efficacy screening) as in rats and mice ip or oral doses: lacosamide 
induced qualitatively similar effects in both species and both routes of application, including dose-
dependent sedation, rolling gait, decreased muscle tone and at higher doses ataxia tremor and 
hypothermia. Decreased respiration was seen in rats after 32 mg/kg ip or 256 mg/kg po. Straub tail 
was observed after ip application of 32 mg/kg in the mouse and 64 mg/kg in the rat. Convulsions 
occurred in the mouse at 64 mg/kg ip. 
GLP modified Irwin test in rats: lacosamide had no statistically significant neurobehavioral neurotoxic 
or neurovegetative effects (3 and 10 mg/kg), induced a statistically significant decrease in spontaneous 
locomotor activity, delayed passivity to finger approach and in body and abdominal tones (25 mg/kg), 
effects more marked and long-lasting effects at doses of 50 and 75 mg/kg. Moreover, at a dose of 75 
mg/kg, a statistically significant decrease in grip strength was observed at 60 or 240 minutes post-
dosing. Lacosamide had no effect on body temperature at any of the doses tested. The NOEL was 
determined to be 10mg/kg po. 
Neurotoxic effects of lacosamide were assessed in two rat studies: no neuronal vacuolization or cell 
death were observed at 4 h or 72h following single ip administration of 10 or 50 mg/kg lacosamide, 
while MK-801 treatment resulted in the expected neuronal vacuolization and necrosis.  
Page 12 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiovascular and autonomic nervous system 
In vitro studies on Purkinje fibers, human SCN5A channel, guinea pig ventricular myocytes and in 
vivo dog study with lacosamide cumulative application have been performed in full compliance to 
GLP principles. 
In in vitro studies, lacosamide reduced action potential duration in cardiac tissue and sodium current in 
isolated cells, starting at concentrations which shouldn’t be achieved in the clinic, ie 50 to 60 µmol/L 
(ca. 12-15µg/mL), corresponding to 300mg bid. Effects on sodium current were dependent on 
membrane potential, with higher inhibition at more depolarized potentials. A positive use/frequency 
dependence was observed in recombinant human sodium channels, whereas effects on action 
potentials in Purkinje fibers did not display a frequency dependence under the experimental conditions 
used. The investigations on cardiac ion currents suggest that inhibition of sodium currents, presumably 
via enhancement of slow inactivation, is responsible for the changes in action potential shape in 
Purkinje fibers. 
Pivotal cardiovascular in vivo studies in the dog and monkey 
In a GLP study in anesthetized instrumented dogs intravenous lacosamide induced short lasting 
hypotensive effects which appeared at the time of maximal drug plasma levels (Tmax), i.e. 2 to 5 
minutes after iv application. The lacosamide plasma levels eliciting this effect (11.3 to 22.6 µg/mL) 
started at plasma levels found in humans after twice daily dosing of 300 mg (14.5 ± 1.7 µg/mL), which 
was the initially proposed Maximum Recommended Human Dose (MRHD). During the assessment, 
the applicant changed the dose recommendations due to the unfavourable benefit/risk profile of the 
600mg/day dose. The MRHD was therefore reduced from 600 mg/day to 400 mg/day (see Clinical 
part). The small, but statistically significant reduction of blood pressure (7-8% at initial proposed 
MRHD-equivalent plasma concentration of 600 mg/day) after lacosamide application is most likely 
due to a cardiodepressant action and not an effect on blood vessels, because no significant change in 
peripheral resistance was observed. At all doses tested (ie 2-12 mg/kg) a slight, but statistically 
significant increase of heart rate (3-7%) was determined. The cardiodepressant activity was 
characterized mainly by reduced contractility as indicated by decreases in systolic left ventricular 
pressure (LVP) and dP/dt and reduced cardiac output which amounted to 7-9%, 12-17% and 6-7%, 
respectively, at 600mg/day -equivalent plasma concentrations. These effects were accompanied by an 
increase in PR interval and QRS complex duration of 4-6% and 8-11%, respectively, at 600mg/day -
equivalent drug concentrations. 
These changes were dose-dependent and consistently found in all haemodynamic studies of 
lacosamide in anesthetized, instrumented dogs. Atrial conduction was affected at lower doses than 
ventricular conduction. Higher doses (15-45 mg/kg iv) of lacosamide were only studied in a few 
anesthetized, instrumented dogs. In these early studies more severe conduction disturbances like AV 
block, AV dissociation and nodal rhythm were observed. AV dissociations were accompanied by 
marked reductions in blood pressure and cardiac output. The results from these studies indicate that 
the effects of lacosamide on the electrocardiogram (ECG) are dose-dependent. However, due to the 
small number of animals no clear dose-effect relationship can be established. 
Effects on cardiac conduction and haemodynamic parameters similar to those in dogs were also 
observed in monkeys at doses of 30 mg/kg iv and higher. 
Due to the low number of animals tested (n=3) no dose-effect relationship can be established, but to 
summarize the study in monkeys, lacosamide induced a dose-dependent transient decrease of blood 
pressure and disturbances of atrial and ventricular conduction. However, the degree of severity varied 
considerably between the animals.  
Negative dromotropic as well as negative inotropic effects have already been described for a number 
of different sodium channel modulators. Cardiodepressant effects of carbamazepine and phenytoin in 
anesthetized dogs have been reported (Steiner et al (1970, Smith and Lomas, 1978 and Gupta et al, 
1967).  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Lacosamide showed synergistic effects with diazepam in the rat cobalt/homocysteine model of 
Page 13 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
status epilepticus. The ED50 of lacosamide was reduced by 91% in the presence of diazepam. 
Lacosamide was also examined in the rat late phase formalin test for sustained pain for 
pharmacodynamic interactions with common analgesics. The results suggest the following 
interactions: 
• Additive effects were observed between lacosamide 20 mg/kg and gabapentin 50 and 100 mg/kg. 
• Synergistic effects were observed between lacosamide 10 mg/kg and duloxetine 8 mg/kg (stronger 
analgesic effect of the combination than the sum of the effects of each substance alone). 
• No clear interaction was observed between lacosamide and naproxen. 
• Synergistic effects were observed between lacosamide 10 and 20 mg/kg and morphine 2 and 4 
mg/kg (stronger analgesic effect of the combination than the sum of the effects of each substance 
alone). 
• Weak synergistic effects were observed between lacosamide 10 mg/kg and memantine 8 mg/kg and 
between lacosamide 20 mg/kg and memantine 4 mg/kg (stronger analgesic effect of the combination 
than the sum of the effects of each substance alone). 
Upon request of the CHMP the applicant presented also data on the interaction of lacosamide with 
other AEDs. Results from one large study using the 6 Hz model of psychomotor seizures and the 
rotarod test for motor impairment indicated that there are particularly strong synergistic effects of 
lacosamide in combination with either levetiracetam or carbamazepine. Additive to synergistic effects 
were observed for lacosamide in combination with lamotrigine, gabapentin and topiramate. Purely 
additive effects were seen with valproate and phenytoin. No synergistic or additive effects were seen 
for the motor side effect where the pharmacodynamic interactions were infra-additive. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of lacosamide were studied in mice (CD-1), rats 
(Sprague Dawley) and dogs (Beagle) and in rabbits (New Zealand White). Data were obtained both 
from pharmacokinetic and toxicokinetic studies, using oral, intravenous and intraperitoneal dosing, 
various dose levels and duration of treatment. Plasma concentrations of the major human O-desmethyl 
metabolite (SPM 12809), were determined in mice, rats and dogs and the desacetyl metabolite (SPM 
6912), was quantified in mouse plasma. 
•  Absorption 
In mice, the absorption of lacosamide was rapid following a single oral administration of 20 mg/kg. 
Blood levels of radioactivity mimicked those in plasma. Pharmacokinetic parameters were similar in 
males and females. After a single, oral and intraperitoneal, and repeated oral administrations, Cmax 
increased approximately or slightly less than proportionallly to the dose. 
In rats, the absorption of lacosamide was rapid after a single oral administration of 10 mg/kg, the 
mean bioavailability was 94%. Blood levels of radioactivity mimicked those in plasma. Peak plasma 
and blood levels and Tmax were similar in male and female rats and systemic exposure tended to be 
slightly higher in females. 
Following a single oral administration of 40 mg/kg a secondary elevation of plasma levels was seen, 
suggesting the possibility of entero-hepatic recirculation of radiolabelled moieties.  
After repeated dose administration, systemic exposure in male and female rats was similar and 
saturation was observed at high dose levels. In both genders, the systemic exposure was slightly less 
than dose proportionate. There was no difference in pharmacokinetic parameters following single or 
multiple oral administration. The t1/2 was approximately 1.3 hours in rat. 
In pregnant rats, dosed orally once daily on gestation days 7 to 17 with up to 300 mg/kg/day, plasma 
concentrations were slightly lower than that in non-pregnant female rats in the 3-month study after 
single dose.  
In juvenile rats, plasma concentrations of lacosamide were in general higher than in adults and Cmax 
was observed at later time points. 
In pregnant rabbits, following oral dosing from days 6 to 18 of gestation with up to 50 mg/kg, the 
lacosamide plasma concentration-time profiles were essentially the same as on day 1 of dosing. 
Page 14 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In dogs, the absorption of lacosamide was rapid following a single oral administration of 10 mg/kg, 
with a bioavailability ranging from 71 to 97% in different studies. The blood concentrations were 
similar to those in the plasma. After repeated dose administration, exposure to lacosamide was similar 
in both genders and increased approximately in proportion to the dose. The t1/2 was short, at about 2 
hours. No accumulation of lacosamide in plasma was observed.  
•  Distribution 
Tissue distribution following single oral administration was investigated by qualitative whole body 
autoradiography and tissue sampling. In vitro binding to plasma proteins and blood cell partitioning 
were also determined. 
In mice, the tissue distribution was extensive following a single oral administration of 20 mg/kg [14C]-
lacosamide, up to 72 hours post dose. Highest concentrations were seen in stomach mucosa and 
kidney, later in the organs of metabolism and excretion and the lachrymal glands. In general, 
concentrations in tissues were below systemic exposure up to 4 hours post dose and were greater than 
systemic exposure from 8 hours onwards. At 72 hours post dose concentrations had fallen to between 
0.3% and 11% of their peak values. Tissue concentrations were in general similar in male and female 
mice. No specific binding to any tissue was seen.  
In albino rats, tissue distribution was rapid after an oral or intravenous single administration of 10 
mg/kg [14C]-lacosamide. The distribution was uniform and wide after both routes of administration, 
with no organ showing excessive concentrations or preferential uptake. There was no significant 
retention of radioactivity at 48 hours post dose by any organ. The distribution was similar between 
genders, and, excluding gastrointestinal tract and content, the same general distribution pattern was 
observed following oral and intravenous administration. 
In male pigmented rats, following single oral administration of 10 mg/kg [14C]-lacosamide, the highest 
concentrations were reached in the coagulating gland, followed by kidney cortex and medulla, uveal 
tract and liver. Radioactivity was detected in central nervous system, with very few regional 
differences in the distribution of radioactivity in the brain and with concentrations about half that in 
plasma. At the final sampling time (35 days post dose), most tissues (except periosteum, periodontal 
membrane, skin and lens) contained radioactivity at levels below the limit of quantification. Following 
a single intravenous administration of 10 mg/kg [14C]-lacosamide radioactivity was highest in kidney 
cortex and medulla and the esophageal wall, coagulating gland, uveal tract, prostate and small 
intestine mucosa. 
In pregnant/lactating rats, on day 18 of gestation, or to dams on day 10 post partum, after a single oral 
dose of 10 mg/kg [14C]-lacosamide, radioactivity was widely distributed into maternal tissues. [14C]-
lacosamide-derived radioactivity readily crossed the placental barrier with concentrations in the foetal 
tissues comparable with the corresponding tissues in the dam. Suckling neonates were exposed to 
radioactivity with a distribution similar to that of maternal tissues. 
In dogs, following a single oral administration of 10 mg/kg [14C]-lacosamide, radioactivity was widely 
distributed throughout all tissues and about half of the tissues contained concentrations in excess of 
those found in blood; highest concentrations were detected in the epididymis, kidneys, gall bladder 
and liver.  
The CHMP asked the applicant a justification for not conducting repeat-dose evaluations in the 
distribution studies, and to discuss the risk of accumulation in the tissues where lacosamide was still 
present after 35 days post dose. 
The applicant argued that the low levels of radioactivity detected in tissues of pigmented rats at 35 
days post-dose were similar to those in other non-pigmented tissues, indicating that no significant 
melanin binding occurs. It is reasonable to assume that the conducted single dose tissue distribution 
studies provide an adequate assessment of tissue distribution in the rat since similar pharmacokinetic 
parameters regarding absorption and excretion were obtained in male rats receiving a single 
radioactive dose or six non-radiolabelled doses followed by a single radioactive dose of lacosamide at 
10 mg/kg (4 MBq/kg). In addition, no lacosamide related changes were seen in the repeat-dose 
toxicity studies in the ophthalmological examinations or in the histopathological examinations of the 
eye and skin. Further, no effects on skin or eyes have been seen clinically. 
Page 15 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
Protein binding 
The binding of [14C]-lacosamide to plasma proteins was determined in vitro by equilibrium dialysis of 
mouse, rat, dog and human plasma in the concentration range of 1.5 to 60 µg/mL [14C]-lacosamide. 
The protein binding of [14C]-lacosamide was low; 6.2, 5.1 and 6.1% in mouse, rat and human, 
respectively. No concentration dependent effects were observed. In the dog, protein binding was 
16.5% and showed some degree of saturation. Mean blood cell partitioning of [14C]-lacosamide was 
49, 44, 47 and 54% in mouse, rat, dog and human, respectively.  
•  Metabolism 
In vitro metabolism 
Liver microsomes from rat, dog, cynomolgus monkey and human were incubated with lacosamide at 
100 µmol/L (25 µg/mL). Lacosamide was slowly metabolized with concomitant formation of both 
phenolic and desmethyl metabolites in the animal hepatocytes. The metabolite profiles from rat, dog or 
monkey showed no significant species differences. Slow biotransformation of lacosamide was 
exhibited in human liver microsomes.  
Suspension cultures of hepatocytes isolated from the livers of male mouse, rat, dog, human and female 
rabbit were incubated with [14C]-lacosamide at 10 µmol/L (2.5 µg/mL). Metabolic turnover rated 
human < rabbit < dog < rat < mouse. After 4 hours incubation, on average 55% (mouse), 22% (rat), 
7% (rabbit), 15% (dog) and 4% (human) of lacosamide had been metabolized. SPM 12809 was 
common to all species. Deacetylation occurred in mouse and human, hydroxylation in rat, rabbit and 
dog. There was no evidence for Phase II metabolites in any species after treatment with either ß-
glucuronidase/aryl sulphatase or sulphatase-free ß-glucuronidase. 
Further, metabolism of lacosamide was investigated in liver and kidney microsomes obtained from rat 
and human, in liver and kidney microsomal supernatant from rat, in human plasma and in microsomes 
obtained from baculovirus infected insect cells transfected with human cytochrome P450 2C19 cDNA 
at a concentration of 100 µmol/L (25 µg/mL). Recombinant CYP2C19 microsomes were incubated at 
10 µmol/L. Also, the influence of flavin monooxygenase enzymes was investigated. 
In the in vitro rat models, a total of 4 significant metabolites (> 1%) were observed. SPM 12809 and 
SPM 12817 accounted for up to 4.9 and 2.7%, respectively, of the total radioactivity. Traces of SPM 
6912 were also identified. Two unknown polar metabolites accounted for up to 1.6 and 1.5% in the 
liver supernatant samples. One of the unknown polar metabolites (up to 1.5%) was also found in the 
kidney microsomal supernatant. The formation of both unknown polar metabolites was independent 
from cytochrome P450 activity. 
In the in vitro human models, a total of 3 significant metabolites were observed. SPM 12809 and SPM 
6912 accounted for up to 2.5 and 1.4%, respectively, in liver microsomes. Using recombinant human 
CYP2C19 microsomes, 2 significant metabolites were observed: SPM 12809 (up to 6.9%) and a polar 
metabolite (up to 7.7%). 
There was no evidence that flavin monooxygenase is involved in the biotransformation of lacosamide.  
The metabolic formation of M6, the N-carbamoyl glucuronide of the desacetyl metabolite 
SPM 6912, was investigated using human liver microsomes. Mainly unchanged SPM 6912 and trace 
amounts of M6 were identified.  
In vivo metabolism 
Metabolite profiles in mouse, rat and dog plasma, urine and faeces were compared. Samples were 
obtained following single oral dosing of [14C]-lacosamide at 20, 40 and 10 mg/kg to male and female 
mice, rats and dogs, respectively and single intravenous dose of 10 mg/kg to rats and dogs.  
In a repeat-dose study Sprague Dawley rats were dosed orally with 10 mg/kg/day lacosamide. 
Plasma, urine and faeces samples were analyzed. In plasma SPM 12809 accounted up to 36% (6 hours 
post dose) and SPM 12816 up to 6%. Percent radioactivity of unchanged lacosamide ranged from 80 
to 89% and from 50 to 67% at 1.5 and 6 hours post dose, respectively. 
In urine two major metabolites were SPM 12809 and SPM 12817 in both genders. Similar data were 
obtained in both genders and after single and repeated administration. 
Page 16 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Faeces samples contained 3 to 7% of the administered dose. Due to the low radioactivity of the 
samples, mouse faeces were not used for metabolite identification. In rat and dog faeces the 
predominant component was SPM 12817 with concentrations ranging from 1.5% (rat) to 2.2% of the 
dose (dog). Three further principal components, accounting for 1.1, 0.5, 0.1% in rats and 0.9, 1.0, 
0.5% in dogs, were identified as unchanged lacosamide, SPM 12809 and a dihydroxy metabolite, 
respectively. The rat faeces samples showed an additional main component, SPM 12816 which 
accounted for 0.6 and 0.3% of the dose in male and female rats, respectively.  
In healthy male human subjects the major compounds excreted into urine after both oral and 
intravenous administration of 100 mg [14C]-lacosamide were unchanged lacosamide 
(approximately 40% of the administered dose) and SPM 12809. Smaller amounts (<10%) of SPM 
6912 and its N-carbamoyl glucuronide were also found in urine. Minor peaks (<6%) were the O-
desmethyl hydroxy (meta and para) and the p-hydroxy metabolites. 
Systemic exposure of SPM 12809 in plasma 
Plasma concentrations of SPM 12809 were determined in mice, rats and dogs following repeated oral 
administration of lacosamide. Peak plasma concentrations and areas under the curve of lacosamide 
were generally higher than those of SPM 12809. No major differences in systemic exposure to SPM 
12809 were observed between species, dose levels and genders. In human plasma, the relative 
exposure to SPM 12809 in percentage of the lacosamide exposure was 12% in terms of Cmax,ss and 
15% in terms AUC0-12 h,ss (200 mg lacosamide bid for 6 days, SP640).  
Systemic exposure of SPM 6912 in plasma 
Plasma concentrations of SPM 6912 were determined in mice after oral administration of lacosamide 
for up to 14 days. The major component circulating in plasma was lacosamide followed by SPM 
12809, 22% to 87% of the parent compound. SPM 6912 represented 3% to 10% of the parent 
compound.  
Racemization 
Lacosamide is a chiral compound and the potential bioconversion to its S-enantiomer was investigated 
in rat plasma and dog urine. No bioconversion was seen in either species. In addition, stereospecific 
analysis of urine samples showed that there is no enantiomeric interconversion in humans.   
N-carbamoyl glucuronide of SPM 6912 
The N-carbamoyl-glucuronide (M6) of SPM 6912 was identified as a minor metabolite (<10% of the 
administered dose) in human urine, but was not found in plasma. Rat urine samples from the 
carcinogenicity study and dog urine samples derived from the pharmacokinetic study LPT 15654/02, 
were investigated for M6. Traces of M6 were detected in 1 out of 5 rats and in 1 of 5 dogs. 
Enzyme induction 
The potential for lacosamide to induce the cytochrome P450 isoforms 1A2 and 3A4 was investigated 
in cryopreserved human hepatocytes at 50 µmol/L and 500 µmol/L lacosamide. A slight induction of 
CYP3A4 in one of the two examined donors was seen in the presence of acetonitrile as vehicle. 
In a second in vitro induction study the cytochrome P450 isoforms 1A2, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19 and 
3A4 were examined. In one donor, enzyme activities of CYP3A4 after treatment at 500 µmol/L, was 
increased.  
In male rats treated orally with vehicle, 3.9 or 100 mg/kg lacosamide for 7 days, no increase in overall 
cytochrome P450 concentration, CYP1A or CYP2B activity was seen. 
•  Excretion 
In mice, excretion of [14C]-lacosamide in urine and faeces was investigated following a single oral 
administration at a dose level of 20 mg/kg by gavage. Excretion of radioactivity was rapid with >84% 
of the dose recovered within 48 hours. Radioactivity was mainly excreted in the urine. 
In rats, excretion of [14C]-lacosamide was investigated after an administration of either 10 mg/kg or 40 
mg/kg orally or intravenously at 10 mg/kg. Radioactivity was determined in urine, faeces, expired 
gases and carcasses. Elimination was principally via urine with >75% of the dose recovered within 24 
hours. Total recovery ranged from 91% to 100%. Routes and rates of excretion of radioactivity were 
Page 17 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
similar in males and females, after oral and intravenous dosing and after single and repeated oral 
dosing.  
In dog, excretion of [14C]-lacosamide in urine and faeces was investigated following single oral 
(gavage) or single intravenous administration at 10 mg/kg. 
In humans, receiving either a single oral administration or intravenous infusion of 100 mg [14C]-
lacosamide (Study SP619), about 95% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in urine and 
less than 0.5% in faeces after 7 days, indicating that renal excretion is the main pathway for the 
elimination of lacosamide in man.  
Excretion in rat milk 
After a single oral dose of 10 mg/kg [14C]-lacosamide to female rats at 10 days post parturition, 
radioactivity was excreted into the milk. Concentrations of radioactivity peaked at 2 hours post dose in 
milk. Mean milk over plasma ratios increased from 0.7:1 at 30 minutes to 2.5:1 at 8 hours and then 
decreased to 0.9:1 at 24 hours after dose administration. 
Toxicology 
All pivotal toxicity studies were performed according to GLP standards. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
NOAEL was 31.6 mg/kg in both mice and rats after oral dosing. Single dose toxicity was also 
evaluated in dogs; the only dose was 15 mg/kg by oral gavage. Observed exaggerated 
pharmacodynamic effects on the central nervous system were dose dependent and dose limiting. 
Lacosamide concentrations in female mice, in the high dose groups and after oral dosing was 31.8 
µg/mL at 316 mg/kg, and 124 µg/mL at 464 mg/kg. When comparing allometrically corrected non-
lethal doses, the multiple to human dose, 12 mg/kg (600 mg daily and a patient weighing 50 kg, gives 
12 mg/kg), was approximately 2 in mice, and no margin at all in rats and dogs. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The animal species tested in the pharmacokinetic studies, mice, rats and dogs, are suitable species for 
the toxicity studies. However, the central nervous system effects were dose limiting in all tested 
species and the margins to human exposure are low or non-existent. 
In mice, lacosamide was administered up to 270 mg/kg for 13 weeks. Central nervous system effects 
started at 60 mg/kg, and no other signs of toxicity were seen. No target organ was identified in the 
mouse, possibly due to dose-limiting central effects. The NOAEL was considered to be 60 mg/kg, 
even though slight central nervous system related effects were obvious already at this dose level. At 
NOAEL the Cmax was 29 µg/ml and AUC0-24h was 97 µg·h/mL. The initially proposed MRHD of 600 
mg/day was reduced to 400mg/day due to the unfavourable clinical safety profile at 600 mg/day. 
Therefore, the margin over human maximum exposure (200 mg bid) is 2.7 for Cmax and none (1.0) for 
AUC.  
In rats, lacosamide was administered up to 180 mg/kg by oral gavage for 26 weeks (4 weeks recovery) 
and up to 50 mg/kg by intravenous (bolus) administration for 2 weeks. In the oral studies, the central 
nervous system related dose limiting effects were seen at 180 mg/kg and above, and after intravenous 
administration at 50 mg/kg. The female rats were more affected by the central nervous system effects 
than the males.  
The liver was also a target organ in rats; at approximately 100 mg/kg, increases in serum alkaline 
phosphatase, cholesterol, triglycerides and alanine aminostransferase were seen, along with increases 
in liver weights, in both males and females. These increases were of moderate character. A light and 
electron microscopic examination of female rat livers at 300 mg/kg after 13 weeks, revealed mild to 
moderate hypertrophy of the centrilobular and peripheral hepatocytes, with an increase of the rough 
reticulum and mitochondria. Some of the mitochondria had atypical morphology and were classified 
as mega mitochondria. It has been shown that lacosamide is metabolised in vitro by CYP2C19 
forming SPM 12809, both in rat and human. Further, in the carcinogenicity study, increases in ALT 
and liver weights were seen after week 13 at mid and high doses, however, at week 52 and onwards 
Page 18 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the increases were smaller and not statistically significant. No effects on the liver (enzymes, weights 
or histopathology) were seen in the liver in any of the studies in mice and dogs, at maximum doses 
tested. In addition, no adverse effects on the liver function have been recorded in the clinical studies. 
Taken together, it is agreed that the effects of the liver seen in the rat are indicative of increased 
enzyme production, i.e. a physiological adaptive process, and are not of clinical relevance. 
 A slight diuretic effect was seen in the 13-week and 26-week oral studies, an increase in urine output 
with concomitant dilution of urine solutes (lower nitrogen, creatinine, sodium and potassium) and an 
increase in some haematology parameters (mean cell volume, segmented neutrophils and mean cell 
haemoglobin) was noticed. All these changes were of a mild magnitude and no diuretic effects have 
been observed in the clinic. In the oral 6-month study, at NOAEL (90 mg/kg), Cmax was 26 µg/ml and 
AUC∞ was 299 µg·h/mL, which leaves a margin over human maximum exposure (200 mg bid) of 2.4 
for Cmax and 3.0 for AUC.  
In dogs, lacosamide was administered orally up to 20/25 mg/kg for 12 months (4 weeks recovery) 
orally, and up to 16 mg/kg for 2 weeks by intravenously (bolus) administration. In the dog, the heart 
was the target organ. A slight trend to increased heart rate was seen after oral administration in the 30-
day, 3-month and 12-month studies. These increases were of moderate magnitude, statistically 
significant only in male dogs at mid dose (12 mg/kg) in the 3 month study. A moderate decrease in 
arterial systolic blood pressure was recorded in the 12-month study at 10 mg/kg and above in female 
dogs only. However, apart from one female in the 2-week intravenous study, who suffered a second 
degree AV block at Day 13 (at 16 mg/kg), no changes were seen in ECG parameters in any dog study. 
Pharmacology studies in anesthetized, instrumented dogs showed that lacosamide caused reduction of 
blood pressure (7-8%), increase of heart rate (3-7%) due to reduced contractility, and a short lasting 
hypotensive effect at 11.3-22.6 µg/mL, which is however above the Cmax range obtained after 
maximum recommended clinical dosing. These effects were accompanied by an increase in PR 
interval and QRS complex duration of 4-6% and 8-11%, respectively. At higher doses (15-45 mg/kg) 
more severe conduction disturbances like AV block, AV dissociation and nodal rhythm were 
observed. The Cmax obtained in the highest dose group in the 3-month, 12-month oral and 2-week 
intravenous study ranged between 20-30 µg/mL, levels where heart effects would have been more 
pronounced. It is reasonable that this might be due to the fact that ECG assessments were made after 
Tmax and that awake dogs are less sensitive to the cardiodepressant effects than anesthetized open-chest 
dogs. However, further preclinical testing would in any case not add any relevant information, since 
these effects have also been seen in the clinic.  
Central nervous system related effects, decreased food consumption and body weight parameters were 
seen at approximately 20 mg/kg and above. In the intravenous study, a slight diuretic effect was seen, 
however no diuretic effect was seen in the dog after oral administration. No local toxicity, after 
intravenous administration, was noted.   
In the 12-month study, at NOAEL (10 mg/kg), Cmax was 14 µg/ml and AUC∞ was 71 µg·h/mL for 
males and 55 µg·h/mL for females. In the intravenous study, at NOAEL (8 mg/kg), Cmax was 13 µg/ml 
and AUC∞ was 48 µg·h/mL. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Lacosamide was tested according to relevant guidelines. 
In the two Ames tests, no mutagenic effect in any of the tested strains, irrespective of metabolic 
activation, was seen. However, equivocal (without metabolic activation) and positive (with metabolic 
activation with rat liver S9 mix) results were observed in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay. The 
weak increase in small colonies suggests a clastogenic effect. The positive response was seen at a high 
concentration, 8 mM, albeit not cytotoxic concentrations. Even though the positive effects in the 
mouse lymphoma assay were seen at high concentrations, and the other studies included in the 
standard genotoxicity battery were negative, the CHMP requested the applicant to submit a weight-of-
evidence analysis of these positive effects.  In response the applicant put forward convincing 
arguments regarding the interpretation of the mouse lymphoma assay, that this assay should be 
regarded as negative in absence of S9 and equivocal in presence of S9. Any equivocal evidence of 
genotoxicity above 10 mM in the presence of S9 is considered likely to be an artefact due to 
excessively high test concentrations. 
Page 19 of 52 
 
 
 
Lacosamide was negative in the two in vivo tests, mouse micronucleus test and unscheduled DNA 
synthesis (UDS) in rat. The clinical signs were dose limiting in the in vivo studies. No separate 
toxicokinetics were available for the micronucleus study. The Cmax after 200 mg/kg lacosamide given 
intraperitoneally was 241.2 µg/mL and the AUC(0-6h) was 768 µg·h/mL, yielding margins over human 
maximum exposure (200 mg bid) of 22.1 and 7.7 for Cmax and AUC, respectively. For the UDS study, 
based on Cmax values, the margin over human maximum exposure (200 mg bid) was 3.5.  
In addition, a structure alert search using DEREK was performed by the assessors, and no structure 
alert was identified.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
2-year carcinogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats, with dosing by oral gavage up to 180 
mg/kg (mice) and 160 mg/kg (males rats) and 160/180/200 mg/kg (female rats). A complete 
histopathology was carried out in both studies and no lacosamide or vehicle-related neoplastic or non-
neoplastic lesions were observed in either species. 
In the mice, the survival rate varied between 34-68%, no difference between males and females were 
noted (mid dose males having a slighter decreased survival rate, 34%). At the end of the 2-year dosing 
period, body weight was reduced by -10.6% and -1.8% in the high dose males and females, 
respectively.  
In 2 out of 12 control samples lacosamide was detected just above the LoQ, 1.0 ng/mL. It is agreed by 
the Assessor that these contamination of samples are of an order of magnitude that does not affect data 
quality and the integrity of the study. 
At the highest dose of 180 mg/kg mean exposure to lacosamide over all sampling days, as Cmax, was 
approximately 71 and 51 µg/mL for males and females, respectively. Based on AUClast, levels of 
approximately 268 and 217 µg·h/mL were reached for males and females, respectively. The resulting 
exposure margins over human maximum exposure (200 mg bid) are 6.5/4.7 (males/females) based on 
Cmax and 2.7/2.2 (males/females) based on AUC. 
In the rats, due to subsiding toxicity in high dose females, the dose was increased twice, in week 51 to 
180 mg/kg, and in week 74 to 200 mg/kg. Clinical signs (abdominal position, clonic convulsion and 
reduced motility) were noted up to week 29, then only few rats on few occasions showed any clinical 
signs. After raising the dose in the females at week 51, half of the rats showed abdominal position, but 
only that week. After the second raise in dose at week 74, again 50% of the females showed reduced 
motility/abdominal position up to week 96.  
Increases in ALT was seen in week 13, however, at week 52 and onwards the increases were smaller 
and not statistically significant. In addition, increases in absolute and relative liver weights were seen. 
Liver effects were seen in the repeated-dose toxicity studies in rat, and the findings in the 
carcinogenicity studies confirm the liver being the target organ in rats. These effects are indicative of 
increased enzyme production, i.e. a physiological adaptive process. 
The survival rates ranged between 54-74% and no difference between male or female rats was noted. 
At the end of the 104-week dosing period, body weight was reduced by -7.9% in males and -2.5% in 
females.  
In 6 out of 42 control samples lacosamide was detected just above the LoQ, 1.0 ng/mL. These 
contaminations of samples are of an order of magnitude that does not affect data quality and the 
integrity of the study. 
Mean exposure to lacosamide over gender at the highest dose of 160 mg/kg on the first sampling day 
(in test week 26), as Cmax, was approximately 53 µg/mL. Based on AUClast, levels approximately 587 
µg·h/mL were reached. The resulting margins over human maximum exposure (200 mg bid) are 4.9 
based on Cmax and 5.9 based on AUC.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
In rats, no adverse effects on male or female reproductive function when studying standard parameters 
up to 200 mg/kg were seen. NOAEL was >200 mg/kg for both males and females. At NOAEL, the 
margin to maximum human exposure (200 mg bid) was 3.1 based on Cmax and 4.7 and 1.2 for males 
and females, respectively, based on AUC values. 
Page 20 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
Embryo-foetal development 
In rats, there was no evidence on a teratogenic potential at doses up to 200 mg/kg. However, the 
clinical signs (starting at 70 mg/kg) in the dams were dose limiting. A decrease in food consumption 
and body weight (-4.7% on day 15) was seen in the high dose dams. No effects on other standard 
parameters were noted. NOAEL was >200 mg/kg for both males and females. At NOAEL, the margin 
to maximum human exposure was 2 based on Cmax and 3 and 1 for males and females, respectively, 
based on AUC values. 
In rabbits, there was no evidence on a teratogenic potential at doses up to 50 mg/kg. However, as in 
rats, the clinical signs in the dams were dose limiting. A slight decrease in food intake and body 
weight gain and body weight in the dams was observed. At 50 mg/kg, a slightly reduced foetal body 
weights were seen.  There were no other effects on other standard parameters. At maternal NOAEL, 
12.5 mg/kg, no margins over maximum human exposure (200 mg bid) based on Cmax (1.2) or AUC 
values (0.9) were established.  
Prenatal and postnatal development, including maternal function 
In rats, dosed up to 200 mg/kg, the mean duration of gestation was significantly prolonged in treated 
groups (22.8, 22.9 and 23.0 days, respectively), compared with the control group (22.4 days). Also, an 
increase in numbers of stillborn pups and pup deaths in the peripartum period, and a slightly reduced 
live litter sizes and pup body weights were observed at a maternally toxic dose of 200 mg/kg/day. No 
effects were noted on the F2 generation up to weaning. The NOAEL for maternal and developmental 
toxicity was 70 mg/kg, for development, fertility and reproduction of F1 generation it was >200 
mg/kg. At NOAEL, 70 mg/kg, the margins to maximum human exposure based on Cmax was 2.3 and 
no margin for AUC values was established. At NOAEL >200 mg/kg, the margins over human 
maximum exposure (200 mg bid ) was 3.0 based on Cmax, and no margin based on AUC levels.  
•  Local tolerance  
Lacosamide had no effects on haematocrit, erythrocyte morphology, haemolysis, osmolality, or 
precipitation/coagulation in human blood. 
In rabbit, after intramuscular, paravenous and subcutaneous injections, minimal to mild inflammatory, 
hemorrhagic and/or necrotic intolerance reactions were seen. No effects were noted after intravenous 
and intra-arterial infusion. Concentration was 20 mg/mL in all administrations. 
Lacosamide was non-irritating to the skin when applied to intact and abraded rabbit skin. When 
instilled in to rabbit eye, lacosamide caused corneal opacity, irritation of the iris and conjunctival 
redness and is classified as “irritating to eyes”. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
Lacosamide was negative for skin sensitization reactions in guinea pigs, using Magnusson/Kligman 
grading scale.  
Immunotoxicity 
Lacosamide did not have any immunotoxicological properties in mice with respect to an IgM and IgG 
response against SRBC. The resulting safety margins based on body weight and body surface area 
with respect to immunotoxicological effects in this study were >31.5 and >2.4, respectively (adjusted 
for 200 mg bid). 
Dependence 
In studies using rats for 26 weeks and dogs for 12 months with recovery, at the maximum dose, a 
checklist of behavioural and physical signs of drug action was employed. A post-hoc analysis of these 
two toxicity studies revealed no new behavioural or physical signs after cessation of dosing. 
Drug abuse: 
In order to assess the potential abuse liability of lacosamide three dedicated animal studies were 
performed. 
Page 21 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  Drug discrimination study a group of drug-naïve rats were trained to discriminate between ip 
injections of vehicle (physiological saline) and 10 mg/kg of lacosamide while responding 
under a fixed-ratio 10 schedule of food reinforcement. Consistent with the weak nature of the 
stimulus effects of lacosamide, the time taken to achieve discrimination with it (59.0 ± 4.2 
training sessions) was longer than has been reported for establishing two-choice 
discrimination with the comparison substances used in the present study (Carter et al, 2004, 
Bartoletti et al, 2000, Mori et al, 2002). 
In the subsequent generalization testing, lacosamide itself, diazepam, morphine, phencyclidine 
and phenobarbital were tested for generalization to the lacosamide stimulus. When lacosamide 
itself was tested, the pattern of responding was best described as random, underlining the 
difficulty the rats had reliably to distinguish lacosamide from saline. The generalization 
studies with the comparison substances with known abuse and dependence liability are 
consistent with the weak lacosamide discriminative cue as the pattern of responding was 
essentially random at all doses. In conclusion, the discriminative stimulus produced by 
lacosamide in rats was not robust, nor clearly dose-dependent suggesting that the test 
substance is not likely to have subjective effects leading to abuse in man.  
2)  Further, lacosamide was investigated after oral (gavage) administration in the conditioned 
place preference test in the rat; morphine hydrochloride was used as reinforcing drug, and the 
vehicle was used as negative control. Contrary to morphine, lacosamide did not affect the time 
spent in the drug-paired compartment during the test session as compared with the vehicle 
control. The number of crossing was not affected.  
3)  Furthermore, when lacosamide was compared to cocaine and physiological saline for its 
ability to maintain intravenous self-administration in rats, it didn’t demonstrate to maintain 
self-administration at all doses tested.  
These results suggest that lacosamide is not likely to have positive reinforcing properties or abuse 
potential. 
The evaluation of the dependence potential of lacosamide provided by the applicant, was considered to 
be not completely exhaustive. However, there were no signs of withdrawal symptoms clinically, and 
further preclinical studies would not add any relevant information to the overall risk/benefit of the 
patient. 
Studies on impurities 
Impurity SPM 14018, was considered qualified regarding the repeated-dose toxicity studies performed 
with batch KK02457.  
However, it was unclear from the submitted dossier, what the actual amount of SPM 14018 was in 
batch PEH-A-188(2), used for the genotoxicity tests (Ames and mouse lymphoma assay). The 
applicant was asked to clarify what the actual amount of SPM 14018 was in the batch used for the 
genotoxicity tests performed, and justify the claim of a 0.3% qualification limit.  
The applicant decided to tighten the acceptance limit for SPM 14018 in lacosamide drug substance to 
NMT 0.15% based on batch analysis data, i.e. below the ICH Q3A (R) qualification threshold. 
Considering the statement of the applicant to tighten the acceptance limit for the impurity SPM 14018 
and the review analysis of genotoxic data, the applicant response was accepted. 
SPM 6912, a degradation product and a mouse and human (<10%) metabolite, is considered 
toxicologically qualified. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) in accordance with the "Guideline on the Environmental 
Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use" (CHMP/SWP/4447/00), 1 June 2006, was 
prepared by the Applicant. In addition to a number of studies on physico-chemical properties six 
studies on environmental fate and effects were performed in accordance with GLP to support the ERA.  
Based on the low Kow, lacosamide is not considered as potentially bioaccumulative and thus not a PBT 
substance, and further PBT assessment is not required. 
Page 22 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The adsorption/desorption was investigated for four different soils and one sediment and the obtained 
Koc values ranged from 5 to16 mL/g. This is well below the action limit of 10 000 L/kg. The 
adsorption/desorption study is required in order to investigate the fate of the compound in the sewage 
treatment plant. Consequently, sewage sludge should have been tested. However, considering the low 
Koc values obtained further testing using sewage sludge is not warranted. It can be concluded that 
there is no concern for the soil compartment. 
Lacosamide was not readily biodegradable. In accordance with the guideline (CHMP/SWP/4447/00), 
the fate of substances which are not readily biodegradable should be further investigated in a water 
sediment study (OECD 308). This was not done by the Applicant. Instead, the % partitioning into 
sediment was calculated to 2 % and 7 % using the obtained Koc value in an equation based on a 
FOCUS surface water scenario. These calculations cannot be accepted as a replacement of the OECD 
308 study, which still is required. Should the partitioning into sediment, at any time point after or at 14 
days, exceed 10 %, additional sediment effect studies are required. The applicant committed to submit 
the results of an ongoing aerobic water sediment study (OECD 308) as a post approval follow-up 
measure. This was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Lacosamide was of low toxicity to aquatic organisms with chronic NOEC values for algae, Daphnia 
and fish of > 100 mg/L, 32 mg/L, and 10 mg/L, respectively. No inhibitory effect on the respiration 
rate of activated sludge microorganism was observed, and the 3-hour NOEC was > 1000 mg/L. 
The PEC/PNEC quotients for the aquatic and sewage compartment were all well below 1 and 0.1, 
respectively. It can be concluded that the proposed use of lacosamide is unlikely to represent an 
unacceptable risk to the terrestrial and aquatic compartments. However, a final conclusion cannot be 
made regarding the sediment compartment. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP was concerned about the possible interaction of lacosamide with other AEDs. Results 
presented by the applicant indicated that there are particularly strong synergistic effects of lacosamide 
in combination with either levetiracetam or carbamazepine. Additive to synergistic effects were 
observed for lacosamide in combination with lamotrigine, gabapentin and topiramate. Purely additive 
effects were seen with valproate and phenytoin. No synergistic or additive effects were seen for the 
motor side effect where the pharmacodynamic interactions were infra-additive. 
The CHMP also requested clarification why no repeat-dose studies had been conducted, and to discuss 
the risk of accumulation in the tissues where lacosamide was still present after 35 days post dose. 
The data provided by the applicant indicated that no significant melanin binding occurs and therefore 
it was reasonable to assume that the conducted single dose tissue distribution studies provided an 
adequate assessment of tissue distribution in the rat. In addition, no lacosamide related changes were 
seen in the repeat-dose toxicity studies in the ophthalmological examinations or in the 
histopathological examinations of the eye and skin. Further, no effects on skin or eyes have been seen 
clinically. 
The applicant also reassured the CHMP on the results of the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay, 
demonstrating that that this assay should be regarded as negative in absence of metabolic activation, 
and the equivocal results in presence of metabolic activation considered likely to be an artefact due to 
excessively high test concentrations.  
With regard to the impurities, it was unclear from the submitted dossier, what the actual amount of 
SPM 14018 was used for the genotoxicity tests (Ames and mouse lymphoma assay). The applicant 
was asked to clarify what the actual amount of SPM 14018 was in the batch used for the genotoxicity 
tests performed, and justify the claim of a 0.3% qualification limit.  
The applicant decided to tighten the acceptance limit for SPM 14018 in lacosamide drug substance to 
NMT 0.15% based on batch analysis data, i.e. below the ICH Q3A (R) qualification threshold. 
Page 23 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Considering the statement of the applicant to tighten the acceptance limit for the impurity SPM 14018 
and the review analysis of genotoxic data, the applicant response was accepted. 
Lacosamide is not readily biodegradable, and the required (in accordance with the guideline 
CHMP/SWP/4447/00) water sediment study was not performed. The applicant committed to submit 
the results of an ongoing aerobic water sediment study (OECD 308) as a post approval follow-up 
measure. This was accepted by the CHMP.  
Studies on dogs indicated a relevant effect of lacosamide on atrioventricular conduction; however 
further preclinical testing would not add any relevant information, since these effects have also been 
seen in the clinic. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Lacosamide is a member of a series of functionalized amino acids that were specifically synthesized as 
anticonvulsant drug candidates. Lacosamide has demonstrated antiepileptic activity in different rodent 
seizure models for generalized and complex partial-onset seizures and status epilepticus. It has also 
shown effect in animal models of neuropathic pain. 
The precise mechanism by which lacosamide exerts its antiepileptic and analgesic effects remains to 
be fully elucidated. Preclinical experiments suggest that lacosamide has a dual mode of action: In vitro 
electrophysiological studies have shown that lacosamide selectively enhances slow inactivation of 
voltage-gated sodium channels, resulting in stabilization of hyperexcitable physiological neuronal 
excitability. Additionally, lacosamide binds to collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP-2), a 
phosphoprotein which is mainly expressed in the nervous system. CRMP-2 is found to be dysregulated 
in the brain of epileptic patients. 
The phase III development program for Vimpat consists of 6 completed and 3 ongoing Phase 2/3 trials 
for adjunctive treatment for subjects with partial-onset seizures (using oral [tablet/capsule] 
formulation). A total of 1338 adult subjects with partial-onset seizures with or without secondary 
generalization have been treated with oral Vimpat 100mg/day to 800mg/day as adjunctive therapy. In 
addition to the film-coated tablets, a parenteral solution of Vimpat (10mg/mL) in sodium chloride for 
intravenous infusion has been developed. For administration in patients who have difficulty 
swallowing tablets, flavoured syrup with a concentration of Vimpat 10mg/mL or Vimpat 15mg/mL 
has been developed. 
The proposed indication for Vimpat is adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures 
with or without secondary generalization in patients with epilepsy aged 16 years and older. 
GCP 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Pharmacokinetics 
•  Absorption  
Lacosamide is a modified aminoacid with a fast and complete absorption. The bioavailability after oral 
administration approaches 100%. Three formulations are applied for: film-coated tablets 50, 100, 150 
and 200mg, solution for infusion 10 mg/ml, and oral solution 15 mg/ml. Bioequivalence has been 
shown between clinical trial tablets and 30 or 60 minutes of oral infusion. If the infusion is 
administered over 15 minutes, a 20% higher mean Cmax is obtained and bioequivalence can not be 
shown. Bioequivalence has also been shown between the clinical trial tablet and an oral solution of a 
different concentration than the solution applied for marketing (10 mg/ml). The tablet intended for 
marketing is slightly different than the clinical trial formulation but has not been studied in vivo. A 
biowaiver from studying bioequivalence between the marketing tablet formulation and the clinical trial 
Page 24 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
formulation was granted as the formulation can be classified as BCS class I and have similar and fast 
dissolution at different pH in vitro, the drug has high permeability, apparently little intestinal 
transporter involvement, and the excipients in the formulation are unlikely to affect transport proteins. 
A biowaiver was also accepted for a bioequivalence study between the oral solutions of different 
concentrations. As the drug is in solution, and the solution does not contain any excipient known to 
affect drug absorption, this was granted.  
•  Distribution 
Lacosamide has a low protein binding and a volume of distribution of 40-60 L. 
•  Elimination 
The elimination half-life is 11-16 hours and clearance ca 3 l/h. The inter-individual variability is low 
(ca 20%). Lacosamide shows 1-compartment kinetics and the kinetics is dose and time proportional in 
the therapeutic range. Lacosamide is eliminated partly (30%) through renal excretion and partly by 
metabolism. The non-renal elimination has not been fully characterised. In the mass-balance study, 19-
40% of the dose was found in urine as the inactive metabolite SPM12809. (The metabolite coeluted 
with another metabolite, so the figure is imprecise.) However, the formation of the metabolite is said 
to be catalysed by CYP2C19 but absence or inhibition of CYP2C19 only gave a 7-17% reduction of 
oral clearance. Thus, either the contribution of the pathway is rather small or another enzyme is 
contributing to the SPM12809 formation. The applicant has tried to identify the remaining metabolic 
pathways and enzymes responsible as catalysts, but although quite extensive investigations, no further 
information has been collected. The identification of dose-related compounds in plasma is borderline 
acceptable. Only a pooled plasma sample from all time points of a full sampling curve was studied. 
The rough estimation results in lacosamide contributing to 60-100% of plasma radioactivity. 
SPM12809 was the only metabolite found in plasma. The pharmacokinetics of SPM12809 has been 
investigated in several studies. The exposure of SPM12809 is usually 15% of the lacosamide 
exposure.  
•  Chirality 
Lacosamide has one chiral centre and is administered in the R-form. There is no significant 
interconversion in vivo.  
•  Special populations 
Impaired renal function gives an expected increase in lacosamide exposure (47% in severe renal 
impairment). The drug is eliminated by haemodialysis and an additional half morning dose should be 
taken after end of dialysis.  A maximum dose of 250 mg (instead of 400mg) is recommended for 
patients with severe renal impairment and in patients with end-stage renal disease. Very high 
concentrations of SPM12809 were noticed in patients with severe impairment and end-stage renal 
disease. The exposure margin to preclinically obtained exposures is, as for the parent drug, small or 
non-existent. In patients with end-stage renal disease, the plasma concentrations were increased and 
continued to rise during the complete sampling period. Thus, AUC could not be determined. However, 
no pharmacological activity of the metabolite has been observed. A recommendation of caution when 
treating patients with end-stage renal disease is proposed in the SPC. The AUC of lacosamide was 
increased by 60% in moderately impaired hepatic function. However, the studied patients also had an 
impaired renal function and it was estimated that the increase in AUC resulting from a decrease in 
non-hepatic clearance was 19%. The exposure was also similar in Asians, Blacks and Whites. Elderly 
women had approximately 50% higher mean AUC than young men both after the first dose and at 
steady state, and elderly men had approximately 33% higher exposure than young men. After 
normalising the parameters for bodyweight, the differences were reduced (to 23% for elderly women 
and 26% in elderly men as compared to young men). Only a minor part of the difference is likely to be 
due to decreased renal function. The pharmacokinetics in children has not been studied. However, 
studies in this age group are planned. Weight appears to modestly influence the pharmacokinetics of 
lacosamide. The population PK analysis supported that women will have an increased lacosamide 
Page 25 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exposure and indicated that decreased weight will lead to increased exposure. Combining information 
from the various sources, indicates that elderly females with low body weight may have increased 
lacosamide exposure. 
Clinical trials indicate that gender does not have a clinically significant influence on the plasma 
concentrations of lacosamide. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro studies indicate that CYP3A4 may both be induced and inhibited by lacosamide. The signal is 
not very strong but nevertheless, it may not be excluded that lacosamide can affect this enzyme 
activity in a moderate way. The applicant will study this in a multiple dose study with oral midazolam. 
A Caco-2 cell transport study indicates that there is some efflux transport. The concentration 
dependency of the transport has not been evaluated. The concentrations used in the study are quite 
high and the possibility of lacosamide to be transported by aminoacid transporters or peptide 
transporters such as PEPT1 may not be excluded. However, as there are no indications of relevant 
transporter involvement in vivo (high permeability, no active renal or biliary excretion), no further 
investigations were considered as needed. Lacosamide does not affect digoxin transport in vivo and the 
transport was not affected by the Pgp inhibitor verapamil in vitro. In vivo interaction studies showed 
that multiple-dose omeprazole (40 mg q.d.) increased lacosamide exposure by 19%, lacosamide 
slightly (9%) increased ethinylestradiol and levonogestrel exposure, did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of digoxin. There was no interaction between lacosamide and metformin, valproic 
acid and carbamazepine. However, the interaction study with carbamazepine did not include a 
sufficiently long carbamazepine treatment period at the target dose for full induction to be reached. 
The population analysis indicated that concomitant treatment with phenytoin, phenobarbital and 
carbamazepine moderately decrease lacosamide exposure.  
•  PK/PD relationship 
Lacosamide increases the PR interval. The effect is dose-dependent and a relationship between 
concentration and increase in PR interval has been found. There is one PK-PD analysis on efficacy 
which estimates that the plateau in response will be reached at higher lacosamide doses than indicated 
by the clinical efficacy data. However, the analysis is a rough estimation. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The mechanism of action for lacosamide is incompletely known but is thought to involve an 
enhancement of the slow inactivation of sodium channels, and possibly an interaction with collapsin 
response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2), a protein involved in neuronal differentiation and control of 
axon outgrowth. Lacosamide has demonstrated antiepileptic activity in some rodent seizure models for 
generalized and complex partial-onset seizures and status epilepticus, i.e., maximal electroshock 
seizures (MES), hippocampal kindling, audiogenic seizures (AGS), self sustaining status epilepticus 
(SSSE), and in 1 chemoconvulsant-induced seizure model (for details see non-clinical section). 
Lacosamide has also shown effect in animal models of neuropathic pain.  
Administration of lacosamide in healthy subjects showed dose-dependent mild sedation. There was no 
evidence for extrapyramidal effects and no significant influence on the saccadic eye movement as an 
indicator of possible central nervous system (CNS) effects. Phase 1 trials with ECG investigation 
showed that lacosamide causes a dose-related increase of the PR interval. In Study SP640, the 
maximum mean changes on Day 6 (steady-state) were observed at 1 hour post dose and were 6.3ms, 
13.6ms, and 18.2ms in the placebo, lacosamide 400mg/day, and lacosamide 800mg/day dose groups, 
respectively. 
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical development program for orally administered Vimpat includes 7 clinical trials that 
evaluated efficacy of Vimpat tablets as adjunctive therapy in adult subjects with partial-onset seizures. 
Page 26 of 52 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This includes 3 primary double-blind, placebo-controlled efficacy trials (SP667, SP754, and SP755) in 
1294 adult subjects, 1 completed supporting trial (SP607), and 3 ongoing trials (SP615, SP756, and 
SP774) evaluating long-term efficacy. Two additional completed trials (SP586/FRC-01-201 and 
SP598/FRC-01-202) used a capsule formulation, however only very few patients received Vimpat in 
these trials and therefore they will not be commented further. 
For Vimpat solution for infusion, there are 2 completed phase 2/3 trials including a total of 199 
subjects for adjunctive treatment of partial-onset seizures. These trials were designed to investigate the 
appropriate duration of infusion for Vimpat as short-term replacement for oral Vimpat and to provide 
safety data for the intravenous formulation. An overview of the 9 trials evaluating efficacy of the oral 
formulation Vimpat is shown in Table 1, and trials of iv administered Vimpat are provided in Table 2. 
Table 1. Trials evaluating efficacy of oral formulation Vimpat in adults with partial-onset seizures. 
Page 27 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Trials of intravenously administered Vimpat in subjects with partial-onset 
seizures
•  Dose response studies and main clinical studies 
The main clinical efficacy studies for the use of Vimpat as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial-
onset seizures are study SP667 (conducted in the United States and Europe), study SP754 (conducted 
in the United States), and study SP755 (conducted in Europe and Australia). Study SP667 was 
designed as a dose-response trial but also served as a trial supporting the efficacy and safety of Vimpat 
as add-on treatment for partial onset seizures. Further details for these trials are provided in Table 3. 
Page 28 of 52 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Primary efficacy trials with Vimpat as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial onset 
seizures.
General description of the three main studies SP667, SP754 and SP755 
The three main studies were similar in design with similar inclusion criteria, a 12-week maintenance 
phase, and subjects were allowed to back-titrate 100 mg/day at the end of the titration phase. The three 
trials also used doses, dosage forms and dosing schedules that were the same as the initial (including 
600mg dose) proposed product label. A general description of the three main studies is provided 
below.  
Study participants  
Subjects were included if they were male or female, age 18 to 65 years in SP667 and 16 to 70 years in 
SP754 and SP755. Included subjects had a diagnosis of epilepsy with simple partial-onset seizures 
and/or complex partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalization according to the 
International Classification of Epileptic Seizures (1981). Subject should have partial-onset seizures for 
at least the previous 2 years despite prior therapy with ≥2 AEDs. Included subjects reported ≥4 partial-
onset seizures per 28 days on the average, with seizure-free period no longer than 21 days, in the 8-
week period prior to entry into the baseline phase. In addition, subjects were on a stable dosage 
regimen of 1 to 2 (SP667) or 1 to 3 (SP754 and SP755) concomitant AEDs with or without additional 
Page 29 of 52 
 
 
concurrent vagal nerve stimulation (VNS). The dosage of concomitant AEDs was kept constant for ≥4 
weeks prior to entry into the baseline phase and throughout the trial. 
Patients were excluded if they had received Vimpat in a previous trial, if they had a history of chronic 
alcohol or drug abuse with the previous 2 years, if they had a known history of severe anaphylactic 
reactions or serious blood dyscrasias. Subjects with a history of primary generalised seizures, subjects 
with seizures that were uncountable due to clustering, and subjects with a progressive structural lesion 
in the CNS or a progressive encephalopathy were also excluded. 
Treatment 
In each trial, subjects were enrolled and entered into an 8-week Baseline Phase. Subjects were 
randomized if they reported ≥4 partial-onset seizures per 28 days on the average, with seizure-free 
period no longer than 21 days during the baseline phase. After randomization, the subjects began 
double-blind treatment: a 4- (SP755) or 6-week (SP667 and SP754) forced titration up to the 
respective randomized dose of Vimpat (200, 400, or 600mg/day) or placebo. In all 3 trials, active 
treatment was initiated at 100mg/day and increased in weekly increments of 100mg/day to the target 
dose. A 1-step back-titration of Vimpat 100mg/day or placebo was allowed in the case of intolerable 
adverse events at the end of the titration phase. Then followed a 12-week maintenance phase on the 
achieved randomized (or back-titrated) dose, and either a 2-week transition phase or a 2- (SP755) or 3-
week (SP667 and SP754) taper phase. The 2-week transition phase was required for subjects who 
completed the maintenance phase and who chose to enrol in an open-label extension trial of Vimpat. 
The 2- to 3-week taper phase was required for subjects who chose not to enrol in the open-label 
extension trial of Vimpat or who did not complete the titration or maintenance Phases. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy variables 
Two primary variables were defined in each of these trials. 
For the European regulatory agencies, the primary variable was the proportion of responders (at least 
50% reduction in seizure frequency from Baseline to the Maintenance Phase), with the primary 
variable for the FDA as a secondary variable. 
For the FDA, the primary variable was the change in partial seizure frequency per 28 days from 
Baseline to the Maintenance Phase, whereas response to treatment ≥50 % was a secondary variable. 
Secondary efficacy variables 
Secondary variables included: 
• Change in partial seizure frequency per 28 days from Baseline to Maintenance Phase (for 
European Union regulatory agencies) 
• Response to treatment of ≥50% from Baseline to Maintenance Phase (for FDA) 
• Response to treatment of ≥50% from Baseline to Treatment Phase (ie, Titration + 
Maintenance Phases) 
• Proportion of subjects experiencing an increase (≥25%) in partial seizure frequency from 
Baseline to Maintenance Phase and from Baseline to Treatment Phase (ie, Titration + 
Maintenance Phases) 
• Proportion of subjects experiencing rebound seizure (defined as an increase in partial seizure 
frequency ≥100% from Baseline to Taper Phase) (SP754 and SP755 only) 
• Change in partial seizure frequency per 28 days from Baseline to Maintenance Phase and from 
Baseline to Treatment Phase (ie, Titration + Maintenance Phases) by seizure type 
• Proportion of seizure-free days during the Maintenance Phase for subjects who entered the 
Maintenance Phase 
• Proportion of subjects who achieved “seizure-free status” (yes/no) during the Maintenance 
Phase for subjects who completed the Maintenance Phase 
• Clinical Global Impression of Change at the end of the Titration (SP667 only) and 
Maintenance Phases 
• Change in Seizure Severity Scale ratings from Baseline to the end of the Maintenance Phase 
(SP754 and SP755 only) 
• Change in Quality of Life in Epilepsy - 31 assessment from Baseline to the end of the 
Titration (SP667 only) and Maintenance Phases 
• Health Outcomes Assessment (SP754 and SP755 only) 
Page 30 of 52 
 
 
 
Main results for the pivotal clinical studies 
In general, the demographic characteristics were evenly distributed between the groups in all three 
main trials. The use of concomitant antiepileptic drugs was also in general evenly distributed between 
the groups. Only few patients above 65 years were included. Subjects included in the three main 
efficacy trials had difficult to control epilepsy, and their seizures were not adequately controlled 
despite treatment with 1 to 3 concomitant antiepileptic drugs. Nearly half of them had tried 7 or more 
marketed antiepileptic drugs. The mean duration of epilepsy was 23.7 years in these 3 trials and the 
median baseline seizure frequency was 9.9 to 16.5 seizures per 28 days across all treatment groups. 
Study SP667 
This study, which also served as a dose-response trial, compared the effect of three dose levels of 
Vimpat with placebo. A total of 542 subjects were screened from which a total of 497 subjects were 
enrolled and 421 were randomized (98 to placebo, 107 to Vimpat 200mg/day, 109 to Vimpat 
400mg/day, and 107 to Vimpat 600mg/day). Data on subject demographics are provided in table 4. 
Table 4. Summary of subject demographics for the treatment arms in Study SP667. Population: Safety 
set 
321 subjects completed the 12-week Maintenance Phase. A total of 415 subjects had at least 1 post-
Baseline efficacy assessment and were considered part of the Full Analysis Set (FAS). A total of 312 
(75%) subjects completed the trial, and 103 (25%) subjects discontinued early from the trial. The most 
common reason for discontinuation was adverse events (72 subjects overall; 5 [5%], 16 [15%], 19 
[18%], and 32 [30%] in the placebo, Vimpat 200mg/day, Vimpat 400mg/day, and Vimpat 600mg/day 
groups, respectively).   
The results for the primary efficacy parameter responder rate in the full analysis set population are 
shown in table 5.  
Page 31 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Study SP667. Proportion of patients who were 50 % responders at maintenance endpoint. 
Full analysis set. 
In this study, the responder rate in the placebo group was relatively high, 22 %. Both the higher doses 
400 mg and 600 mg/day were statistically significantly superior to placebo, whereas the 200 mg/day 
dose was not. There was no dose-response relationship between the 400 and 600 mg/day doses with 
regard to the primary efficacy endpoints. This was true also for some of the secondary endpoints 
including seizure-free status and seizure reduction with at least 75 %. The change in frequency over 
placebo at endpoint (secondary endpoint) is shown in figure1. 
Fig. 1. Percent reduction of seizure frequency over placebo at maintenance endpoint (Full analysis 
set). 
Study SP754 
This study had a similar design as the preceding study, SP667. Study SP754 was multi-centre, double-
blind, randomised and placebo-controlled and investigated the efficacy and safety of Vimpat 400 
mg/day, 600 mg/day and placebo as adjunctive therapy in subjects with partial seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation. A total of 542 subjects were screened for the trial, and 497 patients 
were enrolled. Of these, 421 were randomised and received at least one dose of trial medication. 
Data on subject demographics are shown in table 6. 
Page 32 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Summary of demographics for study SP754 
The results for 50 % responder rate for the Full Analysis Set population are presented in table 7. 
The difference vs. placebo was statistically significant for both doses. 
Table 7. Study SP 754. Proportion of patients (%) with 50 % responder rate. Full Analysis Set 
In this study, the efficacy of the two doses 400 mg/day and 600 mg/day on responder rate and seizure 
frequency was of similar magnitude. For the primary and some secondary efficacy variables a trend 
was observed towards a slightly better outcome for the 600 mg/day dose group. For one subgroup of 
seizures, simple partial seizures, the response to treatment in the active groups was lower than for 
placebo and no dose-response was observed.  
The median seizure frequency per 28 days (secondary endpoint) for the baseline and maintenance 
phases for each treatment group is shown in figure 2. 
Page 33 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2.  Study SP 754.The results for median seizure frequency 
The results of the change in seizure frequency per 28 days at the end of the Treatment phase are 
presented in table 8. The treatment effect over placebo was similar for the 400 mg/day and 600 mg/day 
groups. 
Table 8. Study SP 754.  Percent reduction of seizure frequency over placebo for the maintenance 
phase. Full analysis set.  
Study SP755 
A multi-centre, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial to investigate the 
efficacy and safety of Vimpat (200 and 400mg/day) as adjunctive therapy in subjects with partial 
seizures with or without secondary generalization. Of the 485 randomized patients, 163 were 
randomized to placebo, 163 to Vimpat 200 mg/day and 159 to Vimpat 400 mg/day. 
With regard to demographics, the mean age overall was 37.8 years. The majority of subjects were < 65 
years old 6 subjects were ≥65 years old. Overall, 250 (51.5%) subjects were male and 235 (48.5%) 
subjects were female. The majority of subjects were White (99.2% of all subjects). In general, the 
demographic variables were balanced between groups. In the 400 mg/day group, however, the 
proportion of females was lower than in the other groups (400 mg/day – 43.3 %; other groups varied 
between 51.5 to 55.8 %). 
The results for the primary efficacy parameter 50 % responder rate showed a statistically significant 
improvement for the 400 mg/day group. For the Vimpat 200 mg/day group, there was a strong trend 
but the difference was not statically significant (Table 9). 
Page 34 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9. Results for 50 % responder rates for the maintenance phase. Full analysis set 
population.
With regard to reduction in median seizure frequency from the baseline to the maintenance phase, 
there was a statistically significant reduction over placebo for both the 200 mg/day and 400 mg/day 
doses.  
For the secondary endpoint seizure-free status during the maintenance phase, the proportion of patients 
who were seizure free was similar in the placebo and active groups (table 10).  
Table 10. Seizure-free status during the maintenance phase. Full analysis set population. 
As for the other main studies, an effect was shown on the seizure subtypes complex partial and 
secondary generalised seizures, but not on the seizure subgroup of simple partial seizures. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Clinical studies in subgroups 
In each of the primary efficacy trials, efficacy in subgroups was evaluated. In a pooled analysis of the 
three main efficacy trials, the proportion of responders and the percentage reduction in seizure 
frequency per 28 days from baseline to the maintenance phase were similar regardless of gender, 
region, and number of concomitant AEDs.  With regard to seizure type, however, differences were 
observed. Vimpat reduced the frequency of complex partial seizures and secondary generalised 
seizure, but had no effect on simple partial seizures.  
Further to a request of the CHMP to discuss upon this issue, the applicant presented data which 
showed that subjects who had a reduction in complex partial seizures or partial-onset seizures with 
secondary generalization showed an increase in the frequency of simple partial seizures.  An 
explanation for the lack of efficacy on simple partial seizures could thus be that complex partial or 
partial-onset seizures with secondary generalization change to less severe simple partial seizures in 
these subjects which reduces the ability to demonstrate a effect of Vimpat on simple partial seizures. 
The efficacy data from the three main trials were pooled (Pool E1).  
Page 35 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median percent reduction in seizure frequency from baseline to maintenance phase for the three 
main efficacy studies is illustrated in Figure 3. 
Figure 3. Median percent reduction in seizure frequency from baseline to maintenance phase by trial 
and treatment. Population: Full Analysis set. 
Figure 4 shows the pooled results for 50 % responder rate from baseline to maintenance (pool E1).  
Fig. 4. Categorical response to treatment 50 % from baseline to maintenance phase in pool E1 
PBO = placebo 
The pooled analysis showed a statistically significant improvement for all active groups versus 
placebo. It is evident from Fig. 3 and 4 that there is a lack of dose-response from 400 mg/day to 600 
mg/day for the primary efficacy variables. 
Page 36 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant presented results for response to treatment of ≥ 50 % and median percent reduction in 
seizure frequency for patients who had tried 7 or more approved AEDs. The CHMP asked the 
applicant to present corresponding results for patients with 1-3 and 4-6 lifetime AEDs. 
The data presented showed that the median percent reduction in seizure frequency per 28 days from 
Baseline to Maintenance Phase was generally similar within each Vimpat treatment groups for 
subjects with 1 to 3, 4 to 6, or 7+ lifetime AEDs. Subjects in the placebo group who had taken 7+ 
lifetime AEDs had a lower median percent reduction in seizure frequency compared to subjects who 
had taken 1 to 3 or 4 to 6 lifetime AEDs. The response to treatment of ≥50% from Baseline to 
Maintenance Phase was similar among subjects with 1 to 3, 4 to 6, and 7+ lifetime AEDs within each 
Vimpat treatment group. Subjects who had taken 7+ lifetime AEDs had a lower placebo 50% 
responder rate (11.3%) than the placebo 50% responder rates observed in subjects with 1 to 3 (38.5%) 
or 4 to 6 (27.1%) lifetime AEDs. 
Supportive studies 
Study SP607 was a phase 2 multi-centre, open label, dose titration trial to determine tolerability and 
efficacy of SPM 927 tablets as adjunctive therapy in patients with partial seizures with or without 
secondary generalization. The primary objectives were to determine the maximum dose (< 
600mg/day) tolerated by the majority of patients and to estimate the efficacy of oral SPM 927 when 
added to approved concomitant antiepileptic drugs. The trial consisted of an observational baseline 
Period (4 weeks), titration to maximum tolerated dose (maximum 8 weeks), and a maintenance Period 
(4 weeks). 
In this study, 91 subjects with partial seizures with or without secondary generalization were treated 
with Vimpat 100-600mg/day as adjunctive on therapy for up to 91 days. The median MTD was 300 
mg/day, although one quarter of the patient could tolerate doses of 600 mg/day. Interpretation of the 
efficacy data is difficult due to the open-label design with no data on the placebo response, and the 
short duration of the maintenance period (4 weeks). 
There are three open-label extension trials which are all on-going. The preliminary data do not allow 
any safe conclusions about long-term efficacy.  
The applicant will submit the final results of the long-term extension studies as a post-approval 
commitment. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
A significant increase in 50 % responder rate (primary variable) as well as a statistically significant 
reduction of seizure frequency (secondary variable) was demonstrated in all three pivotal efficacy 
trials.  The CHMP requested the applicant to provide supplementary efficacy analyses for 50 % 
responder rate in all three main trials where all patients who discontinued were regarded as failures in 
the responder analysis. The supplementary analyses conducted by the applicant have indicated that the 
efficacy data were robust.  
The applicant presented the response to treatment of ≥ 50 % and median percent reduction in seizure 
frequency for patients who had tried 7 or more approved AEDs. Upon request of the CHMP, the 
applicant presented corresponding results also for patients with 1-3 and 4-6 lifetime AEDs. The results 
showed similar response rates for each dose of Vimpat for those subjects who had 1-3, 4-6, or > 7 
lifetime AEDs. 
For the 600 mg/day dose, the efficacy was very similar to the 400 mg/day dose, both for monthly 
seizure reduction and response to treatment 50 % from baseline. Since the safety profile for the 600 
mg/day dose is worse than for the 400 mg/day dose, the risk benefit for the 600 mg/day dose was 
considered to be negative. Further to this consideration the applicant agreed to withdraw the 
600mg/day dose from the dosing recommendations.  
The efficacy data for different seizure types indicate that Vimpat is not effective for simple partial 
seizures. The CHMP asked the applicant to provide an explanation. The applicant’s argument was that 
after treatment with Vimpat, complex partial or partial-onset seizures with secondary generalisation 
Page 37 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
change to less severe simple partial seizures which reduces the ability to demonstrate an effect of 
Vimpat on simple partial seizures. This explanation was considered adequate by the CHMP.  
Three long-term extension studies are all on-going. The preliminary data do not allow any safe 
conclusions about development of tolerance on the long term. The applicant will submit the final study 
results for the long-term extension studies as a post-approval commitment. 
A routine GCP inspection of Study SP755 was performed at two investigator sites (one Polish site and 
one Croatian site), the sponsor site and a CRO. The inspection team concluded that data documented 
and reported at the Polish site were credible and can be used for evaluation and assessment of the 
registration application whilst data obtained at the Croatian site were not reliable and cannot be used 
for the assessment of the authorisation application. The performance of the CRO and the sponsor in 
the context of clinical trial SP755 could not be considered as GCP compliant.  
The applicant was asked to address how GCP issues were handled in the other two pivotal efficacy 
and safety studies, SP667 and SP754, and present evidence that these studies were conducted in 
compliance with GCP. 
In response, the applicant has described general processes that were in place at the Company to ensure 
GCP compliance, and trial-specific processes and procedures for SP667 and SP754 that were followed 
to ensure GCP compliance. The applicant has also provided details on the audit program for the 
pivotal clinical trials SP 667 and SP 754.  
An inspection performed by the FDA at the site in Croatia identified by the EMEA inspectors as not 
being in compliance with GCP showed similar problems with source data as have been pointed out by 
the EMEA inspectors. However, an FDA inspection of an additional SP755 site in Croatia did not 
result in any similar findings regarding source documentation.  
In conclusion, the applicants response has indicated that the critical findings which were detected at 
the Croatian site are probably limited to that site and do not involve other sites or the other two pivotal 
clinical studies. This issue was therefore considered to be resolved. 
On the basis of the results initially submitted by the applicant and the additional information provided 
during the assessment, the efficacy of Vimpat in the treatment of partial seizures is considered 
demonstrated. 
Clinical safety 
The applicant has presented safety data from the epilepsy trials in two pools of patients.  
•  Pool S1 (the primary safety pool) included subjects receiving at least 1 dose of trial 
medication (Vimpat and placebo) from the double-blind placebo controlled trials SP667, 
SP754, and SP755  
•  Pool S2 (long-term safety pool) – includes all subjects who were treated with Vimpat in the 
completed double-blind trials SP667, SP754, and SP755 or subjects included in the open-label 
trials SP607, SP615, SP756, and SP774. 
The applicant presented safety data also from studies conducted in another condition, diabetic 
neuropathic pain (DPN). 
The safety data for the pain indication are presented in a similar way. The following pooled analysis 
sets were used for assessing DNP safety: 
•  DNP Pool S1 (primary safety pool) – consists of treated DNP subjects from all double-blind 
placebo controlled trials. 
•  DNP Pool S2 (long-term safety pool) consists of all DNP subjects who were treated with 
Vimpat in double-blind trials SP614, SP742, SP743, and SP768 and subjects who received at 
least 1 dose of Vimpat in open-label trials SP665, SP745, SP746, and SP830 
Page 38 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Patient exposure 
Patient exposure 
Table 11 summarises the number of exposed subjects for the epilepsy indication and the neuropathic 
pain indication. A total number of 3603 subjects participated in 47 clinical trials (Phases 1 through 3) 
with Vimpat. A total of 1338 subjects were exposed to Vimpat in 11 Phase 2/3 trials using the oral 
formulation in subjects with partial-onset seizures. With regard to the Vimpat solution for infusion, a 
total of 199 subjects with partial-onset seizures were exposed. The 1628 subjects with neuropathic 
pain who were exposed to Vimpat included 1566 subjects with DNP, 25 with mixed neuropathic pain, 
and 37 with post-herpetic neuralgia. 
The epilepsy populations and the diabetic neuropathic pain (DNP) population differ in several aspects 
and are not directly comparable from a safety point of view. Subjects with partial onset seizures were 
20-30 years younger and generally healthier with regard to cardiovascular disease than the DNP 
subjects who often had underlying cardiovascular disease associated with long-standing diabetes. 
Table 11. Overall exposure to Vimpat in the clinical trials 
The overall exposure subdivided after exposure in months is summarised in Table 12. 
Page 39 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12. Overall exposure to Vimpat stratified according to duration of exposure (months) 
•  Adverse events  
In safety pool S1 (the 3 placebo-controlled primary trials in partial-onset seizures) treatment-emergent 
adverse events (TEAEs) were most common in the nervous system disorders and gastrointestinal 
disorders system organ classes. Dizziness, headache, and nausea were most frequent. A dose-response 
was observed for several common TEAEs such as dizziness, nausea, diplopia, vomiting, vision 
blurred, coordination abnormal, tremor, and nystagmus. The incidence of common AEs reported by > 
5 % in subjects with partial onset seizures in safety pool 1 is shown in Table 13. 
Page 40 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13. Most common TEAEs for subjects with partial seizures during the treatment phase by 
treatment group (Pool S1) 
In Pool S2 (long-term safety pool) the type of common TEAEs were comparable to those seen in Pool 
S1, with the most frequent TEAEs being dizziness, headache, diplopia, fatigue, and nausea. AEs were 
reported especially during the titration phase. The applicant should consider a revised dose titration 
with longer intervals between dose increases and/or smaller dose increases in order to improve 
tolerability. 
In trials using the solution for infusion, AEs were similar to those seen with oral Vimpat. Local 
injection site reactions were infrequently reported. 
In subjects with DNP, nervous system disorders and gastrointestinal disorders were also the most 
frequently affected organ systems. The most common TEAEs were dizziness, nausea, and headache. 
Dizziness and nausea was less frequent in the DNP trials than in the epilepsy trials, which is probably 
due to the fact that in the epilepsy trials Vimpat was added on to 1-3 concomitant antiepileptic drugs. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In the Phase 2/3 Vimpat trials in subjects with partial-onset seizures, there were a total of 4 deaths 
across 1338 subjects.  In subjects with neuropathic pain, there were 7 deaths across 1628 subjects. All 
11 deaths were considered by the investigator to be unlikely related to trial medication or not related to 
trial medication.  
Of the 4 deaths among the partial-onset seizure population, 1 was assessed as a case of sudden 
unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP), 1 was a completed suicide, 1 was a road traffic accident, and 1 
was due to intracranial hypertension. Of the 7 deaths among the DNP population, 5 were cardiac-
related, 1 was a completed suicide (occurred 72 days after last dose of Vimpat), and 1 was due to 
pancreatic cancer.  
From databases concerning 12 placebo-controlled trials for Vimpat, it emerged that 4 subjects had 
suicidality-related events while receiving Vimpat as compared to no events in the placebo groups. The 
CHMP requested the company to discuss whether a causal association with Vimpat could be excluded. 
From an analysis of the databases, the applicant showed that the rate of suicidality-related events in 
Page 41 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
the Vimpat clinical trial population appeared to be lower than might be expected in patients with 
epilepsy. The CHMP agreed that the increased risk for suicidality-related events was small and that 
other possible explanations could be found in these four cases. However, risk for suicidality should 
remain an important risk which has to be addressed via the RMP.  
In Pool S1, 6.5% of Vimpat -treated subjects reported a SAE compared to 3.8% of subjects on 
placebo. The overall incidence of SAEs was greater in Pool S2 (15.2%) than Pool S1, which can be 
expected due to the longer duration of trials in Pool S2. Very few SAEs were reported in trials 
assessing the solution for infusion where exposure durations were short (<5 days). There was, 
however, one SAE of bradycardia reported in a subject who received an iv infusion during 15 minutes.   
In the Phase 1 trials, there was one case of a post-toxic hepatitis which occurred 12 days after the 
discontinuation of Vimpat. This case was considered possibly related to Vimpat.  
Among subjects with DNP, the highest proportion of SAEs was in the cardiac disorders SOC, and the 
most commonly reported SAE was coronary artery disease in the overall population and angina 
unstable in the placebo-controlled trials. 
Cardiac safety  
PR prolongation 
The results in the clinical pharmacology trials showed a dose-related increase of mean PR interval. In 
the thorough QT study SP640 the time of the maximum observed mean PR interval correlated to 
Tmax. The placebo-subtracted increase at 1 hour post-dose was 7.3 ms for the Vimpat 400 mg/day 
group and 11.9 ms for the Vimpat 800 mg/day group. The frequency of first degree AV block was 5.6 
% in the placebo group, 3.6 % in the Vimpat 400 mg/day group but increased considerably in the 
Vimpat 800 mg/day group (21.2 %). 
The Vimpat -induced prolongation of the PR-interval increases the risk of development of first degree 
AV block. Treatment-emergent first degree AV block (PR interval >209ms) was observed in 2.7% of 
the DNP subjects taking placebo and 8.2% of the DNP subjects taking Vimpat 400mg/day. There were 
two reports of truly treatment-emergent second degree AV-block in the studies for the neuropathic 
pain indication.  
The number of different AE types and the frequency of cardiac AEs were lower in the subjects taking 
adjunctive Vimpat for partial-onset seizures when compared to the DNP subject group. This can be 
explained by differences in the study populations where partial-onset seizure subjects were 20-30 
years younger and generally healthier from a cardiovascular standpoint than the diabetic neuropathic 
pain subjects. 
Several types of treatment-emergent cardiac-related AEs were reported for the Vimpat and placebo 
groups in the clinical trials for DNP. In the double-blind controlled trials (DNP pool S1), treatment-
emergent PR interval events, including PR prolongation (0.4%) and first degree AV block (0.5%), 
were only reported for the Vimpat group. 
Syncope 
There were 14 reports of syncope (n=8), loss of consciousness (n=4) or depressed level of 
consciousness (n=2) in 3 double-blind trials performed with Vimpat for the treatment of diabetic 
neuropathic pain (SP742, SP743, SP768). All of these patients were on Vimpat at the time of the 
syncopal episode, none was on placebo. Some of these subjects had increased PR intervals noted both 
pre- and post-syncopal episode, although no ECG was recorded during the syncopal episode. Nine of 
the syncopal episodes were observed in patients taking 500 mg/day or 600 mg/day.   
If all Vimpat trials (double-blind and open-label) for both the epilepsy and pain indications are taken 
into account, a total of 43 subjects were reported to have a syncope episode while taking Vimpat. The 
applicant has classified these episodes of syncope in possible or probable aetiology categories. A total 
of 6 were classified to be of cardiac origin, 10 CNS, 2 gastro-intestinal, 2 trauma and 17 unable to 
categorize. 
Page 42 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant was requested to clarify if syncope in some subjects could have been due to transient 
episodes of AV block grade III. In response were presented analysis of ECG data from a total of 13 
subjects with syncopal episodes (includes syncope, loss of consciousness and depressed level of 
consciousness) in all epilepsy trials that showed that in the majority of subjects, PR interval and QRS 
duration were within normal limits before and/or after the syncopal episode. However, in none of the 
subjects there was an ECG registration during the syncopal episode. In the DNP population, of the 14 
subjects who had a syncopal episode, nine were taking 500 mg/day or 600 mg/day Vimpat at the time 
of the event. Therefore, the applicants’ decision to withdraw the 600 mg/day dose from the dosing 
recommendations is likely to reduce the risk for syncope. 
Chest pain 
A total of 109 subjects were reported to have an adverse event of chest pain or chest discomfort while 
taking Vimpat or placebo or no drug while participating in double-blind and open-label diabetic 
neuropathic pain and partial seizure trials. Of these, 84 were treated with Vimpat and 25 were on 
placebo or no drug. 
Chest pain occurred in both the relatively younger and healthier partial seizures subjects (n=51) and 
the older, diabetic peripheral neuropathy patients (n= 58). There was no clear correlation to dose of 
Vimpat. A total of 10 (12%) of the 84 subjects reported to have chest pain while taking Vimpat 
discontinued treatment due to the chest pain; 74 subjects continued Vimpat treatment following the 
report of chest pain. 
The reports of chest pain did not appear to have a common aetiology. In the open-label diabetic 
neuropathic pain (n=3) and partial seizure (n=3) subjects, there were 6 reports of chest pain which 
were categorized as being of likely cardiac origin. In addition there were 2 subjects with longstanding 
coronary artery disease who reported chest pain. Other aetiologies for chest pain were gastrointestinal, 
musculoskeletal, viral and respiratory causes. 
Based on the available data, the integrated analysis suggests that a cardiac origin was likely to have 
been the primary aetiology of chest pain in 8 (10%) of the 83 subjects with sufficient data for 
classification. 
•  Laboratory findings 
The changes in laboratory findings after short-term and long-term administration of Vimpat in the 
partial-onset seizure population and the DNP population were similar. The observed changes in 
laboratory parameters are not considered to be of clinical concern. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Age 
Children and adolescents below 16 years with partial-onset seizures have not been studied in clinical 
trials and are not included in the proposed indication.  
In the Phase 2/3 trials in subjects with partial-onset seizures, subjects >70 years of age were excluded. 
Pharmacokinetics of Vimpat was evaluated in 23 elderly subjects aged 65 to 87 years in comparison 
with 12 young males (aged 22 to 45 years) in the SP620 trial. Following single and multiple doses 
(100mg twice daily for 4 days) the PK parameters AUC and Cmax in elderly males were about 30% 
higher than in younger males, an effect mainly caused by differences in lean body mass. The observed 
differences are not considered clinically relevant in the therapeutic dose range. 
Gender 
In the epilepsy trials, the incidence of TEAEs was higher in females than in males. AEs that were 
more common in females included dizziness, nausea, vomiting, coordination abnormal, nystagmus, 
and blurred vision. Females randomized to receive Vimpat 400mg/day or 600mg/day were also more 
likely than males to discontinue early for most of the common drug-associated TEAEs. In subjects 
with DNP, females were also more likely than males to report the common CNS and gastrointestinal 
effects of Vimpat, especially at higher doses of Vimpat.  
Page 43 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Race 
Non-White ethnic groups were under-represented in the database. The applicant has therefore 
conducted a Phase 1 trial of Vimpat to study the PK and safety in White, Black, and Asian subjects 
(SP 661). The results of this trial indicate that the PK of Vimpat is the same in Asian, Black, and 
White subjects. No clinically relevant differences were observed between the 3 ethnic groups with 
regard to exposure of Vimpat. The spectrum and frequencies of common side effects were similar 
between White and Non-White subjects. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The applicant has evaluated the change in PR interval in placebo or Vimpat -treated subjects who were 
also taking concomitant antiepileptic drugs which are known to increase the PR interval (lamotrigine, 
carbamazepine). The results of these analyses did not indicate that the PR interval increased in 
individuals taking lamotrigine of carbamazepine concomitantly with Vimpat compared with 
individuals who were not taking lamotrigine or carbamazepine. 
The prolongation of the PR interval caused by administration Vimpat 400 mg/day was not changed by 
co-administration with digoxin. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the pivotal efficacy and safety studies for the epilepsy indication (Safety Pool 1), there was a higher 
incidence of TEAEs leading to early discontinuation in subjects treated with Vimpat (17.1 %) than in 
the placebo group (4.7 %). A pronounced dose-response trend was observed with an incidence of early 
discontinuation of 8.1 % in the 200 mg/day group, 17.2 % in the 400 mg/day group and 28.6 % in the 
600 mg/day group. Adverse events leading to discontinuation occurred most frequently in the nervous 
system (9.9 %) followed by GI disorders (3.2 %). The incidence of discontinuations for both nervous 
system disorders and GI disorders increased in a dose-dependent manner.  
•  Post marketing experience 
There is no post marketing experience with Vimpat 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The most common adverse events with Vimpat are related to the CNS and gastrointestinal system and 
include dizziness, nausea, vomiting, ataxia, nystagmus, coordination abnormal and tremor.  Overall, 
there is a dose-related increase in these effects with dizziness and nausea being most frequent. 
Dizziness was the most common reason for discontinuation in the highest dose group. These adverse 
events occurred mainly during the titration phase. The applicant was asked to discuss whether a slower 
dose titration could be used to reduce these side effects. The applicant has presented the results of one 
trial where a slow titration was compared with the currently recommended dose titration. The results 
did not show any clear advantage for the tolerability of Vimpat by using a slower titration scheme.  
The CHMP was concerned about the cardiac safety with Vimpat. Due to the dose-related increase of 
the PR interval with Vimpat, there is an increased risk for AV block. The increase of the PR interval 
was more pronounced for the DNP population which is older and has more cardiovascular disease than 
the epilepsy population. In the DNP Pool S1, first degree AV block was not reported in the placebo 
group, but occurred in 0.5 % in the two highest dose Vimpat groups. There were two reports of 
treatment-related second degree AV block in the neuropathic pain population at a dose of 600 mg/day 
and 400 mg/day, respectively. In addition, there was a dose-related increase in the occurrence of 
syncope with the highest incidence in the 500 and 600 mg/day groups. These syncope episodes 
occurred only in subjects treated with Vimpat in DNP placebo-controlled trials but not in the placebo 
groups. The applicant was asked to clarify if syncope in some subjects could have been due to 
transient episodes of AV block grade III. The analysis provided by the applicant has not indicated that 
AV block III was a cause of syncope. The CHMP asked if it was possible in the clinical situation to 
identify patients that are at high risk of developing PR prolongation and AV block with Vimpat. The 
Page 44 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
applicant’s analyses showed that it is not possible to identify this group of patients before treatment 
with Vimpat is initiated.  
Treatment with Vimpat was associated with chest pain, although no clear correlation do dose was 
reported. Further to a CHMP request, the applicant has reanalysed the frequency and causes of chest 
pain in the epilepsy population. The chest pain was often of long duration, and no ECG evidence of 
ischemia or infarction was reported among those patients who had treatment-emergent chest pain in 
the placebo-controlled studies. Chest pain was not more common in the DNP trials than in the epilepsy 
trials. Although the mechanism behind chest pain remains obscure, cardiac aetiology appears to be 
rare. 
For one of the 5 deaths in the DNP population that were related to cardiovascular causes, 
supplementary information was provided in by the applicant during the assessment procedure. The 
response showed that the patient had multiple risk factors for cardiovascular disease. There was no 
important prolongation of the PR interval in consecutive ECG recordings taken before the subject’s 
death. 
The possible association between use of AEDs and suicidality-related events is questioned (see recent 
FDA review on antiepileptic drugs and suicidality, 23 May 2008). The CHMP asked the applicant to 
argue upon the potential concern related to suicidality events with the use of Vimpat. The applicant 
showed that the rate of suicidality-related events in the Vimpat clinical trial population appeared to be 
lower than might be expected in patients with epilepsy. The CHMP agreed that the increased risk for 
suicidality-related events was small and that other possible explanations could be found for the four 
cases reported. However, risk for suicidality should remain an important risk which has to be 
addressed via the RMP.  Furthermore, the applicant committed to submit variation to include agreed 
class labelling wording in the EU in SPC/Package Leaflet of Vimpat, following finalisation of the 
class review of antiepileptic medicinal products regarding suicidality by the CHMP.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements and provides adequate evidence that the applicant has the services of a 
qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of 
any adverse reactions suspected of occurring either in the European Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
The applicant plans to use routine pharmacovigilance with the exception of the cardiovascular adverse 
events related to PR prolongations, for which enhanced pharmacovigilance measures will be applied. 
Cardiovascular and psychiatric events, including AV block, syncope, bradycardia, PR prolongation, 
depression, abuse liability and suicide/suicide attempts will require a medical follow-up to ensure that 
appropriate data are collected and to characterize and assess the cases. To this end, the applicant will 
conduct of a post approval safety study (SP942).  
Two of the potential concerns (“potential for hepatotoxicity” and “potential for worsening of 
seizures”) may be considered AED class effects, and have not been demonstrated as identified risks in 
the LCM development program. These observations have been classified as potential concerns 
because of the uncertainty in extrapolating risk from a clinical development program to the population 
at large. Hence, routine pharmacovigilance is considered an appropriate measure to monitor for any 
unexpected long-term safety signals for these potential concerns. 
The remaining potential safety concerns (“limited use in pregnant or lactating women” and “no use in 
children and adolescents”) are included per guidance due to limited exposure. Both groups will be 
Page 45 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
specifically excluded from recommended use in the proposed product labelling. Hence, routine 
pharmacovigilance is considered adequate to appropriately monitor long-term safety for these 
potential concerns.  
The CHMP requested the applicant to add two potential safety concerns to the RMP, the potential 
increased risk for suicidality-related events and the potential abuse liability. The first, and most 
important, is considered to be a class-related effect and, although the enhanced risk may be small, it 
can not be ignored. The abuse liability might be not a major problem, but as Vimpat is a centrally-
acting drug with novel mechanism of actions, it deserves to be addressed in the RMP. 
The applicant will also update a post-authorisation safety study (SP942) to include both the above 
identified potential safety concerns. 
Safety Specification 
A total of eight safety concerns have been identified by the applicant. They include cardiac adverse 
events, potential hepatotoxicity, potential for worsening of seizures, dizziness, potential for abuse as a 
CNS-active product, potential for suicidality as an anti-epileptic product, limited use in pregnant and 
lactating women and no use in adolescents and children.   
Enhanced pharmacovigilance actions will be employed what concerns cardiac adverse events focusing 
on PR interval prolongation. Cardiac events (e.g. second or third degree heart block and syncope) 
which will be monitored as medical events of interest, and medical follow-up will ensure appropriate 
data are collected to characterize and assess the case. The applicant will implement the standardized 
MedDRA Queries for the preferred terms of atrioventricular block, PR interval prolongation, 
bradycardia and syncope. These events will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. The applicant will 
provide systematic reviews on PR prolongation and potentially associated symptoms with in the PSUR 
system    
Risk minimisation plan 
Routine risk minimization activities are proposed for areas of limited experience and for potential 
safety concerns that need to be better characterized. No other risk minimization activities are planned.  
The Risk Management Plan and Minimization Plan with proposed activities are summarised below.  
Page 46 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of the Risk Management Plan and Risk Minimization Plan for LCM 
Mile-
stones 
PSURs 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigi-
lance Activities 
Enhanced and 
routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Non-interventional 
post-authorization 
safety study  
Safety 
Concern 
Cardiac 
adverse events 
which may be 
potentially 
associated with 
PR interval 
prolongation 
and sodium 
channel 
modulation 
Potential 
hepatotoxicity 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance  
PSURs 
Potential for 
worsening of 
seizures 
Dizziness 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance  
PSURs 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
PSURs 
Proposed Risk Minimization Activities 
SPC Section 4.3 
Contraindication for known second- or third-degree 
atrioventricular (AV) block.  
SPC Section 4.4 
Information on prolongations in PR interval with lacosamide. 
Caution in patients with known conduction problems or severe 
cardiac disease and when treating elderly patients as they may be 
at an increased risk of cardiac disorders.  
SPC Section 4.5 
Caution in patients treated with medicinal products known to be 
associated with PR prolongation and in patients treated with class 
I antiarrhythmic drugs.  
SPC Section 4.8 
Information that adverse reactions associated with PR interval 
prolongation (e.g. atrioventricular block, syncope, bradycardia) 
may occur.  
SPC Section 5.3 
Information on cardiac effects of intravenous administration of 
lacosamide in anesthetized dogs showed transient increases in PR 
interval and QRS complex duration and decreases in blood 
pressure. In dogs and Cynomolgus monkeys, at 15-60 mg/kg, 
slowing of atrial and ventricular conductivity, atrioventricular 
block and atrioventricular dissociation were seen. 
SPC Section 5.3 
Information on mild reversible liver changes observed in rats 
starting at about 3 times the clinical exposure after repeated 
dosing. 
NA 
SPC Section 4.4 
Advice that treatment with lacosamide has been associated with 
dizziness which could increase the occurrence of accidental injury 
or falls.  
SPC Section 4.7 
Information that Vimpat may have a minor to moderate influence 
on the ability to drive and use machines. Advice not to drive a car 
or to operate other potentially hazardous machinery until patients 
are familiar with the effects of Vimpat.  
SPC Section 4.8 
Information that the most common adverse reaction resulting in 
discontinuation of lacosamide therapy was dizziness. 
Page 47 of 52 
 
 
Potential for 
abuse as a 
CNS-active 
product 
Potential for 
suicidality as 
an anti-
epileptic 
product 
Limited use in 
pregnant or 
lactating 
women 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Non-interventional 
post-authorization 
safety study 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Non-interventional 
post-authorization 
safety study 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Pregnancy registry 
PSURs 
NA 
PSURs 
NA 
PSURs 
No use in 
children and 
adolescents 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance  
NA 
SPC Section 4.6  
Information that there are no adequate data from the use of 
lacosamide in pregnant women. The potential risk for humans is 
unknown. Lacosamide should not be used during pregnancy unless 
clearly necessary.  
Information that it is unknown whether lacosamide is excreted in 
human breast milk. For precautionary measures, breast-feeding 
should be discontinued during treatment with lacosamide. 
SPC Section 5.3  
Information that no teratogenic effects but embryotoxicity at 
maternal toxic doses was observed in preclinical studies.   
SPC Section 4.2 
Vimpat is not recommended for use in children and adolescents 
below the age of 16 as there is no data on safety and efficacy in 
these age groups. 
NA=not applicable; PSUR=Periodic Safety Update Report; SPC=Summary of Product Characteristics 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
As requested by the CHMP, the applicant committed to initiate a development program to remove the 
preservative propyl parahydroxy benzoate sodium from the formulation of the lacosamide syrup and to 
submit the necessary regulatory application as a post-approval Follow-Up measure in order to register 
the reformulated syrup in the agreed time frame. There are a number of unresolved minor quality 
issues but these do not have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The mechanism of action of Vimpat is considered unknown. Two mechanisms of actions have been 
suggested by the applicant which so far are considered as hypothesis: 1) Binding to the collapsin 
response mediator protein-2 which is involved in neuronal differentiation and control of axonal 
outgrowth. 2) Enhancement of sodium channel slow inactivation without effects on fast inactivation 
which might facilitate control of neuronal hyperexcitability.  
In vivo, Vimpat has demonstrated support for the proposed indication in relevant models of seizure 
disorders for generalised tonic-clonic disorders and complex partial seizures. A less marked effect was 
noted in a model for status epilepticus, while Vimpat is without effect in absence seizures. 
Safety pharmacology studies in the CNS showed a dose-dependent behavioural depressant effect, 
accompanied by a decrease in muscle tone. Cardiovascular in vivo studies demonstrated a 
cardiodepressant action including decreases in blood pressure, contractility and cardiac output, 
Page 48 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
slowing of atrial and ventricular conductivity, and, at very high doses, atrioventricular block and 
atrioventricular dissociation.  
Lacosamide was rapidly absorbed and widely distributed in mice, rats and dogs. Lacosamide 
distributed mainly to the organs of metabolism and excretion, kidneys, liver and gall bladder. In 
general, pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ between genders or single or repeat dose 
administration. No repeat-dose distribution studies were included. However, valid justification was 
provided by the applicant. Furthermore, no obvious signs of accumulation were evident in any tissue. 
The protein binding was low (<15%) in all tested species. Lacosamide is metabolised by CYP2C19, 
but to a low extent. In humans, the major part of the dose was excreted as unchanged lacosamide and 
SPM 12809, and smaller amounts consisted of SPM 6912 and its N-carbamoyl glucuronide, O-
desmethyl hydroxyl and p-hydroxy metabolites. The animal species tested formed the metabolites in 
humans; hence mice, rats and dogs are suitable species for the toxicity studies.  
Lacosamide has been tested in a full set of toxicity studies, where the pivotal studies have been 
performed according to GLP standards. In principle, in most studies and in all species tested, the 
central nervous system effects of lacosamide have been dose limiting, hence other signs of toxicity 
were scarce. Also, as a consequence of the low dose levels, the margins over human clinical maximum 
exposure in respect to Cmax and AUC are low or non-existent.  
In mice, no specific target organ was identified. In rats, the liver was the target organ, showing 
adaptive enzyme induction effects. In the dogs, the target organ was the heart, with increase heart rate, 
decreased arterial systolic blood pressure and one case of a second degree AV heart block in the 2-
week intravenous study. Heart toxicity has also been seen in the clinic.   
Lacosamide was tested for genotoxicity and/or mutagenicity using three in vitro and two in vivo tests. 
The weight of evidence is sufficient to conclude that lacosamide poses no genotoxic potential.  
Lacosamide did not hold a carcinogenic potential when tested in 2-year studies in rats and mice. 
In rats and rabbits, no teratogenic effects were seen under the present study conditions. However, the 
value of these studies in regard to evaluate the possible teratogenicity in rats and rabbits and the 
potential risk for humans, is severely hampered by the fact that central nervous system effects in the 
dams were dose limiting. The doses possible to administer, and the exposures reached left small or 
non-existent margins over human exposure. At maternal toxic doses, embryo-toxicity was seen. In 
addition, on basis of the submitted studies in juvenile rats, a potential for reproductive and 
neurological developmental toxicity can not be ruled out. 
Based on results from abuse liability studies, it was the opinion of the CHMP that lacosamide is 
unlikely to hold a potential for behavioural and/or physical dependence on withdrawal. 
As for the environmental risk assessment, since lacosamide is not readily biodegradable, the applicant 
will submit the results of an ongoing aerobic water sediment study (OECD 308) as a post approval 
follow-up measure. 
Efficacy 
The applicant has performed three placebo-controlled trials with parallel group design to investigate 
the efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive treatment for partial-onset seizures. In general, the design of 
these studies was in accordance with the EMEA guideline for medicinal products in the treatment of 
epileptic disorders (CPMP/EWP566/98 rev 1, 2000). The dose-response trial SP667 showed a dose-
response from 200 mg/day to 400 mg/day but no dose-response relationship between the 400 mg/day 
and 600 mg/day doses for the primary efficacy variable. 
With regard to the primary efficacy variable, pooled results from the three main studies showed that 
34% of patients treated with Vimpat 200 mg/day and 40% of patients treated with Vimpat 400 mg/day 
showed response to treatment vs 23% in the placebo group. Considering the two individual studies 
where the lowest dose 200 mg/day was investigated, there was no difference from placebo with regard 
to the primary efficacy variable but in a pooled analysis statistical significance was achieved. A 
Page 49 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
statistically significant reduction of seizure frequency (secondary efficacy variable) was also 
demonstrated in all three pivotal efficacy trials.  
In response to a CHMP request the applicant has provided supplementary efficacy analyses for 50 % 
responder rate in all three main trials where all patients who discontinued are regarded as failures in 
the responder analysis. The supplementary analyses have indicated that the efficacy data were robust.  
The applicant has also presented the response to treatment of ≥ 50 % and median percent reduction in 
seizure frequency for patients who had tried 7 or more approved AEDs. Upon request of the CHMP, 
the applicant presented corresponding results also for patients with 1-3 and 4-6 lifetime AEDs. The 
results showed similar response rates for each dose of lacosamide for those subjects who had 1-3, 4-6, 
or > 7 lifetime AEDs. 
For the 600 mg/day dose, the efficacy was very similar to the 400 mg/day dose, both for monthly 
seizure reduction and response to treatment 50 % from baseline. Since the safety profile for the 600 
mg/day dose is worse than for the 400 mg/day dose, the risk benefit for the 600 mg/day dose was 
considered to be negative. Further to this consideration the applicant has decided to withdraw the 
600mg/day dose from the dosing recommendations.  
The efficacy data for different seizure types indicate that lacosamide is not effective for simple partial 
seizures. The CHMP accepted the argument of the applicant, that after treatment with lacosamide, 
complex partial or partial-onset seizures with secondary generalisation change to less severe simple 
partial seizures which reduces the ability to demonstrate an effect of Vimpat on simple partial seizures. 
Three long-term extension studies are all on-going. The preliminary data do not sufficient to conclude 
on the development of tolerance on the long term. The applicant will submit the final study results for 
the long-term extension studies as a post-approval commitment. 
Further to a routine GCP inspection, the clinical results from one site of Study SP 755 (pivotal) where 
considered not reliable and therefore excluded from the assessment. The exclusion of data from this 
site does not affect the overall results. The applicant gave adequate reassurance to the CHMP that the 
critical findings did not concern other sites or the other two pivotal studies. 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The most common adverse events with lacosamide are related to the CNS and gastrointestinal system 
and include dizziness, nausea, vomiting, ataxia, nystagmus, coordination abnormal and tremor.  
Overall, there is a dose-related increase in these effects with dizziness and nausea being most frequent. 
Dizziness was the most common reason for discontinuation in the highest dose group. These adverse 
events occurred mainly during the titration phase. The applicant was asked to discuss whether a slower 
dose titration could be used to reduce these side effects. The applicant has presented the results of one 
trial where a slow titration was compared with the currently recommended dose titration. The results 
did not show any clear advantage for the tolerability of Vimpat by using a slower titration scheme. The 
CHMP was concerned with regard to the cardiac safety with lacosamide. Due to the dose-related 
increase of the PR interval with lacosamide, there is an increased risk for AV block. The increase of 
the PR interval was more pronounced for the DNP population which is older and has more 
cardiovascular disease than the epilepsy population. In the DNP Pool S1, first degree AV block was 
not reported in the placebo group, but occurred in 0.5 % in the two highest dose lacosamide groups. 
There were two reports of treatment-related second degree AV block in the neuropathic pain 
population at a dose of 600 mg/day and 400 mg/day, respectively.  
In addition, there was a dose-related increase in the occurrence of syncope with the highest incidence 
in the 500 and 600 mg/day groups. These syncope episodes occurred only in subjects treated with 
lacosamide in DNP placebo-controlled trials but not in the placebo groups. The applicant was asked to 
clarify if syncope in some subjects could have been due to transient episodes of AV block grade III. 
The analysis provided by the applicant has not indicated that AV block III was a cause of syncope. 
The CHMP asked if it was possible in the clinical situation to identify patients that are at high risk of 
developing PR prolongation and AV block with Vimpat. The applicant’s analyses showed that it is not 
possible to identify this group of patients before treatment with Vimpat is initiated.  
Page 50 of 52 
 
 
 
 
Treatment with Vimpat was associated with chest pain, although no clear correlation to dose was 
reported. Further to a CHMP request, the applicant has reanalysed the frequency and causes of chest 
pain in the epilepsy population. The chest pain was often of long duration, and no ECG evidence of 
ischemia or infarction was reported among those patients who had treatment-emergent chest pain in 
the placebo-controlled studies. Chest pain was not more common in the DNP trials than in the epilepsy 
trials. Although the mechanism behind chest pain remains obscure, cardiac aetiology appears to be 
rare. 
For one of the 5 deaths in the DNP population that were related to cardiovascular causes, 
supplementary information was provided in by the applicant during the assessment procedure. The 
response showed that the patient had multiple risk actors for cardiovascular disease. There was no 
important prolongation of the PR interval in consecutive ECG recordings taken before the subject’s 
death. 
For the intravenous formulation of Vimpat, the spectrum of adverse events was similar to the oral 
formulation. Local tolerability appears to be acceptable.  
Review of suicidality-related events showed that the risk of those events was lower than might be 
expected in patients with epilepsy, and that other possible explanations could be found. However, risk 
for suicidality should remain an important risk which has to be addressed via the RMP. Moreover, the 
applicant committed to include agreed class labelling wording in the EU in SPC/Package Leaflet of 
Vimpat, following finalisation of the class review of antiepileptic medicinal products regarding 
suicidality by the CHMP. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The user test consultation provided is satisfactory. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Lacosamide enhances slow inactivation of sodium channel without effects on fast inactivation, a 
mechanism which has not been described earlier. However, in animal models predicting seizure 
disorder an effect identical to phenytoin and almost identical to lamotrigine was demonstrated. At 
present, the clinical relevance of the observed slow inactivation of the sodium channel versus fast 
inactivation (e.g. phenytoin) can not be determined. 
Lacosamide appears to have favourable pharmacokinetics with fast oral absorption, full 
bioavailability, low protein binding, dose- and time-independent kinetics and elimination through both 
metabolism and renal excretion. No circulating pharmacologically active metabolites have been 
identified. The interaction potential appears low but an in vivo study with a CYP3A4 substrate is 
planned to study the possibility of weak to moderate induction and inhibition of this enzyme. The 
elimination of lacosamide has not been fully characterised. There are few identified situations with 
increased lacosamide exposure.  
In non-clinical toxicity studies a dose-related CNS depressant effect was dose-limiting resulting in 
exposure margins at or below clinical exposure. In mice, no specific target organ was identified. In 
rats, the liver was the target organ. In dogs, the target organ was the heart, with increase heart rate, 
decreased arterial systolic blood pressure and one case of a second degree AV heart block in the 2-
week intravenous study. Further preclinical studies regarding heart safety would not add any relevant 
information to the overall risk/benefit of the patient. 
The systemic exposure of metabolites has been only roughly characterised and elimination pathways 
of Vimpat have not been completely characterised. There were some indications of CYP3A4 
inhibition and induction in vitro and the applicant plans to perform an interaction study with oral 
midazolam to investigate the in vivo relevance of these findings. 
Page 51 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a small, single-dose, renal impairment study, the exposure of the O-desmethyl metabolite was 
several-fold increased in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment. In absence of 
haemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease, the levels were increased and continuously 
rising during the 24-hour sampling. It is unknown whether the increased metabolite exposure could 
give rise to adverse effects but no pharmacological activity of the metabolite has been observed. 
In three pivotal efficacy studies with parallel group design, 34% of patients treated with Vimpat 200 
mg/day and 40% of patients treated with Vimpat 400 mg/day showed response to treatment vs 23% in 
the placebo group. For the 200 mg/day dose, the differences versus placebo for the primary endpoint 
were not statistically significant in the two individual studies but achieved significance in a pooled 
analysis. For the 400 mg/day dose, a statistically significant difference versus placebo was 
demonstrated in all three trials. The 600 mg/day dose has been withdrawn from the dosing 
recommendations due to an unfavourable benefit/risk ratio. The antiepileptic effect of Vimpat as 
adjunctive treatment of partial seizures has been satisfactorily documented. Although there are no 
comparative studies, the effect of Vimpat on 50 % responder rate appears to be of similar magnitude 
as for some other approved antiepileptic drugs. The GCP issues which concern the CRO and sponsor 
in the context of the inspected clinical trial SP755 was considered resolved. 
In the three placebo-controlled primary efficacy trials in partial-onset seizures, treatment-emergent 
adverse events were most common in the nervous system and gastrointestinal system organ classes. 
Dizziness, headache, and nausea were most frequent. A dose-response was observed for several 
common adverse events. Adverse events like dizziness and nausea occurred especially during the 
titration phase.  
Vimpat causes a dose-related increase in the PR interval with increased risk for atrio-ventricular 
blockade. An increased incidence of atrio-ventricular block I and II was observed in lacosamide-
exposed subjects in the diabetic neuropathic pain trials.  
There was also an increased incidence of syncopal episodes in lacosamide-exposed subjects, 
especially at high lacosamide doses and in the diabetic neuropathic pain population where patients are 
older and have more cardiovascular disease than in the epilepsy population.  
Known atrio-ventricular block II and III should be included as contraindications to treatment with 
lacosamide.  
Treatment with Vimpat was associated with chest pain, although no clear correlation to dose was 
reported. The underlying mechanism for lacosamide-induced chest pain is not clear, but cardiac 
aetiology appears to be rare. 
At present the risk of suicidality-related event is not of concern; however, it will be included in the 
RMP and the applicant will address this issue also in a post-approval study. Furthermore, the applicant 
will submit variation to include agreed class labelling wording in the EU in SPC/Package Leaflet of 
Vimpat, following finalisation of the class review of antiepileptic medicinal products regarding 
suicidality by the CHMP. 
Three long-term extension studies are all on-going. The preliminary data do not allow any reliable 
conclusions about development of tolerance on the long term or long-term safety. The applicant 
should submit the final study results for the long-term extension studies as a post-approval 
commitment. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Vimpat as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-
onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in patients with epilepsy aged 16 years and 
older was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 52 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
