ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets 
Each tablet contains alogliptin benzoate equivalent to 12.5 mg alogliptin and 850 mg metformin 
hydrochloride. 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets 
Each tablet contains alogliptin benzoate equivalent to 12.5 mg alogliptin and 1000 mg metformin 
hydrochloride. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets 
Light yellow, oblong (approximately 21.0 mm long by 10.1 mm wide), biconvex, film-coated tablets 
with “12.5/850” debossed on one side and “322M” debossed on the other side. 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets 
Pale yellow, oblong (approximately 22.3 mm long by 10.7 mm wide), biconvex, film-coated tablets 
with “12.5/1000” debossed on one side and “322M” debossed on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Vipdomet is indicated in the treatment of adult patients aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus: 
- 
- 
- 
as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult patients, inadequately 
controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin alone, or those already being treated 
with the combination of alogliptin and metformin. 
in combination with pioglitazone (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to diet and 
exercise in adult patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin 
and pioglitazone. 
in combination with insulin (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to diet and exercise to 
improve glycaemic control in patients when insulin at a stable dose and metformin alone do not 
provide adequate glycaemic control. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
For the different dose regimens Vipdomet is available in strengths of 12.5 mg/850 mg and 
12.5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets. 
Adults (≥18 years old) with normal renal function (glomerular filtration rate (GFR)≥90 mL/min) 
The dose should be individualised on the basis of the patient’s current treatment regimen.  
For patients inadequately controlled on the maximal tolerated dose of metformin hydrochloride alone, 
the recommended dose is one tablet of 12.5 mg/850 mg or 12.5 mg/1,000 mg twice daily, 
corresponding to 25 mg alogliptin plus 1,700 mg or 2,000 mg metformin hydrochloride daily, 
depending on the dose of metformin hydrochloride already being taken. 
For patients inadequately controlled on dual therapy with a maximal tolerated dose of metformin and 
pioglitazone, the dose of pioglitazone should be maintained, and Vipdomet administered 
concomitantly; alogliptin should be dosed at 12.5 mg twice daily (25 mg total daily dose) and 
metformin hydrochloride at a similar dose (either 850 mg or 1,000 mg twice daily) to that already 
being taken. 
Caution should be exercised when alogliptin is used in combination with metformin and a 
thiazolidinedione as an increased risk of hypoglycaemia has been observed with this triple therapy (see 
section 4.4). In case of hypoglycaemia, a lower dose of the thiazolidinedione or metformin may be 
considered. 
For patients switching from separate tablets of alogliptin and metformin (as dual therapy or as part of 
triple therapy with insulin), both alogliptin and metformin should be dosed at the total daily dose 
already being taken; the individual dose of alogliptin should be halved as it will be taken twice daily 
whilst the dosing of metformin should remain unchanged. 
For patients inadequately controlled on dual combination therapy with insulin and the maximal 
tolerated dose of metformin, the dose of Vipdomet should provide alogliptin dosed at 12.5 mg twice 
daily (25 mg total daily dose) and a dose of metformin similar to the dose already being taken. 
A lower dose of insulin may be considered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia. 
Maximum daily dose 
The maximum recommended daily dose of 25 mg alogliptin should not be exceeded. 
Special populations 
Elderly (≥65 years old) 
No dose adjustment is necessary based on age. However, dosing of alogliptin should be conservative 
in patients with advanced age due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population 
Renal impairment 
A GFR should be assessed before initiation of treatment with metformin containing medicinal 
products and at least annually thereafter. In patients at increased risk of further progression of renal 
impairment and in the elderly, renal function should be assessed more frequently, e.g every 
3-6 months. 
The maximum daily dose of metformin should preferably be divided into 2-3 daily doses. Factors that 
may increase the risk of lactic acidosis (see section 4.4) should be reviewed before considering 
initiation of metformin in patients with GFR<60 mL/min. 
If no adequate strength of Vipdomet is available, individual monocomponents should be used instead 
of the fixed dose combination. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GFR mL/min 
Metformin 
Alogliptin* 
60-89 
45-59 
30-44 
Maximum daily dose is 3,000 mg  
Dose reduction may be considered in 
relation to declining renal function. 
Maximum daily dose is 2,000 mg 
The starting dose is at most half of the 
maximum dose. 
Maximum daily dose is 1,000 mg. 
The starting dose is at most half of the 
maximum dose. 
Metformin is contra-indicated 
No dose adjustment 
Maximum daily dose is 25 mg 
Maximum daily dose is 12.5 mg 
Maximum daily dose is 12.5 mg 
<30 
* Alogliptin dose adjustment is based on a pharmacokinetic study where kidney function was assessed 
using creatinine clearance (CrCl) levels estimated from the Cockcroft-Gault equation.  
Maximum daily dose is 6.25 mg 
Hepatic impairment 
Vipdomet must not be used in patients with hepatic impairment (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Vipdomet in children and adolescents <18 years old have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
Oral use. 
Vipdomet should be taken twice daily because of the pharmacokinetics of its metformin component. It 
should also be taken with meals to reduce the gastrointestinal adverse reactions associated with 
metformin. The tablets should be swallowed whole with water. 
If a dose is missed, it should be taken as soon as the patient remembers. A double dose should not be 
taken at the same time. In that case, the missed dose should be skipped. 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 or 
history of a serious hypersensitivity reaction, including anaphylactic reaction, anaphylactic 
shock, and angioedema, to any dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor (see sections 4.4 
and 4.8) 
Any type of acute metabolic acidosis (such as lactic acidosis, diabetic ketoacidosis) 
Diabetic pre-coma 
Severe renal failure (GFR <30 mL/min) 
Acute conditions with the potential to alter renal function such as: 
- 
- 
- 
dehydration  
severe infection 
shock 
Acute or chronic disease which may cause tissue hypoxia (see section 4.4) such as: 
- 
- 
- 
cardiac or respiratory failure 
recent myocardial infarction 
shock 
Hepatic impairment (see section 4.4) 
Acute alcohol intoxication, alcoholism (see sections 4.4 and 4.5) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
General 
Vipdomet should not be used in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Vipdomet is not a substitute for 
insulin in insulin-requiring patients. 
Lactic acidosis 
Lactic acidosis, a very rare but serious metabolic complication, most often occurs at acute worsening 
of renal function or cardiorespiratory illness or sepsis. Metformin accumulation occurs at acute 
worsening of renal function and increases the risk of lactic acidosis.  
In case of dehydration (severe diarrhoea or vomiting, fever, heat, reduced fluid intake) Vipdomet 
should be temporarily discontinued and contact with a health care professional is recommended. 
Medicinal products that can acutely impair renal function (such as antihypertensives, diuretics and 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)) should be initiated with caution in metformin-treated 
patients. Other risk factors for lactic acidosis are excessive alcohol intake, hepatic insufficiency, 
inadequately controlled diabetes, ketosis, prolonged fasting and any conditions associated with 
hypoxia, as well as concomitant use of medicinal products that may cause lactic acidosis (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
Patients and/or care-givers should be informed on the risk of lactic acidosis. Lactic acidosis is 
characterised by acidotic dyspnoea, abdominal pain, muscle cramps, asthenia and hypothermia 
followed by coma. In case of suspected symptoms, the patient should stop taking Vipdomet and seek 
immediate medical attention. Diagnostic laboratory findings are decreased blood pH (< 7.35), 
increased plasma lactate levels (>5 mmol/L) and an increased anion gap and lactate/pyruvate ratio. 
Administration of iodinated contrast agents 
Intravascular administration of iodinated contrast media may lead to contrast induced nephropathy, 
resulting in metformin accumulation and an increased risk of lactic acidosis. Vipdomet should be 
discontinued prior to or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until at least 48 hours 
after, provided that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be stable, see sections 4.2 
and 4.5. 
Renal function 
GFR should be assessed before treatment initiation and regularly thereafter (see section 4.2). 
Metformin is contraindicated in patients with GFR<30 mL/min and should be temporarily 
discontinued in the presence of conditions that alter renal function (see section 4.3). 
Decreased renal function in elderly patients is frequent and asymptomatic. Special caution should be 
exercised in situations where renal function may become impaired, for example when initiating 
antihypertensive or diuretic therapy or when starting treatment with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
drug (NSAID). 
Surgery 
As Vipdomet contains metformin it must be discontinued at the time of surgery under general, spinal 
or epidural anesthesia. Therapy may be restarted no earlier than 48 hours following surgery or 
resumption of oral nutrition and provided that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be 
stable.   
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Alogliptin has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score >9) and 
is, therefore, not recommended for use in such patients (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2). 
Use with other antihyperglycaemic medicinal products and hypoglycaemia 
Insulin is known to cause hypoglycaemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin may be considered to 
reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia when this medicinal product is used in combination with Vipdomet 
(see section 4.2). 
Due to the increased risk of hypoglycaemia in combination with pioglitazone, a lower dose of 
pioglitazone may be considered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia when this medicinal product is 
used in combination with Vipdomet (see section 4.2). 
Combinations not studied 
Vipdomet should not be used in combination with a sulphonylurea, as the safety and efficacy of this 
combination have not been fully established. 
Change in clinical status of patients with previously controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus 
As Vipdomet contains metformin, any patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus previously well controlled 
on Vipdomet who develops laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness (especially vague and poorly 
defined illness) should be evaluated promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis. 
Evaluation should include serum electrolytes and ketones, blood glucose and, if indicated, blood pH, 
lactate, pyruvate and metformin levels. If acidosis of either form occurs, Vipdomet must be stopped 
immediately and other appropriate corrective measures initiated. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic reactions, angioedema and exfoliative skin 
conditions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and erythema multiforme have been observed for 
DPP-4 inhibitors and have been spontaneously reported for alogliptin in the post-marketing setting. In 
clinical studies of alogliptin, anaphylactic reactions were reported with a low incidence. 
Acute pancreatitis 
Use of DPP-4 inhibitors has been associated with a risk of developing acute pancreatitis. In a pooled 
analysis of the data from 13 studies, the overall rates of pancreatitis reports in patients treated with 
25 mg alogliptin, 12.5 mg alogliptin, active control or placebo were 2, 1, 1 or 0 events per 
1,000 patient years, respectively. In the cardiovascular outcomes study the rates of pancreatitis reports 
in patients treated with alogliptin or placebo were 3 or 2 events per 1,000 patient years, respectively. 
There have been spontaneously reported adverse reactions of acute pancreatitis in the post-marketing 
setting. Patients should be informed of the characteristic symptom of acute pancreatitis: persistent, 
severe abdominal pain, which may radiate to the back. If pancreatitis is suspected, Vipdomet should be 
discontinued; if acute pancreatitis is confirmed, Vipdomet should not be restarted. Caution should be 
exercised in patients with a history of pancreatitis. 
Hepatic effects 
Postmarketing reports of hepatic dysfunction including hepatic failure have been received. A causal 
relationship has not been established. Patients should be observed closely for possible liver 
abnormalities. Obtain liver function tests promptly in patients with symptoms suggestive of liver 
injury. If an abnormality is found and an alternative etiology is not established, consider 
discontinuation of alogliptin treatment. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bullous Pemphigoid 
There have been post-marketing reports of bullous pemphigoid in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors 
including alogliptin. If bullous pemphigoid is suspected, alogliptin should be discontinued. 
Vitamin B12 deficiency 
Metformin may reduce vitamin B12 serum levels. The risk of low vitamin B12 levels increases with 
increasing metformin dose, treatment duration, and/or in patients with risk factors known to cause 
vitamin B12 deficiency. If vitamin B12 deficiency is suspected (such as anaemia or neuropathy), 
vitamin B12 serum levels should be monitored. Periodic vitamin B12 monitoring could be necessary 
in patients with risk factors for vitamin B12 deficiency.  Metformin therapy should be continued for as 
long as it is tolerated and not contra-indicated, with appropriate corrective treatment for vitamin B12 
deficiency provided in line with current clinical guidelines. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Co-administration of 100 mg alogliptin once daily and 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride twice daily 
for 6 days in healthy subjects had no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of alogliptin 
or metformin. 
Specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have not been performed with Vipdomet. The 
following section outlines the interactions observed with the individual components of Vipdomet 
(alogliptin/metformin) as reported in their respective Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Interactions with metformin 
Concomitant use not recommended 
Alcohol 
Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis, particularly in case of 
fasting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment. 
Iodinated contrast agents 
Vipdomet must be discontinued prior to or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until 
at least 48 hours after, provided that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be stable, see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4. 
Cationic medicinal products 
Cationic substances that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g. cimetidine) may interact with 
metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. A study conducted in seven 
normal healthy volunteers showed that cimetidine (400 mg twice daily) increased metformin systemic 
exposure (area under the curve, AUC) by 50% and Cmax by 81%. Therefore, close monitoring of 
glycaemic control, dose adjustment within the recommended posology and changes in diabetic 
treatment should be considered when cationic medicinal products that are eliminated by renal tubular 
secretion are co-administered. 
Combination requiring precautions for use 
Some medicinal products can adversely affect renal function which may increase the risk of lactic 
acidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo-oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, angiotensin-
converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics, especially loop 
diuretics. When starting or using such products in combination with metformin, close monitoring of 
renal function is necessary. 
Medicinal products with intrinsic hyperglycaemic activity 
Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local routes), beta-2-agonists and diuretics (see also 
section 4.4) have intrinsic hyperglycaemic activity. The patient should be informed and more frequent 
blood glucose monitoring performed, especially at the beginning of treatment with such medicinal 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
products. If necessary, the dose of Vipdomet should be adjusted during therapy with the other 
medicinal product and upon its discontinuation. 
ACE inhibitors 
ACE inhibitors may decrease blood glucose levels. If necessary, the dose of Vipdomet should be 
adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal product and upon its discontinuation. 
Effects of other medicinal products on alogliptin 
Alogliptin is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine and metabolism by the cytochrome (CYP) 
P450 enzyme system is negligible (see section 5.2). Interactions with CYP inhibitors are thus not 
expected and have not been shown.  
Results from clinical interaction studies also demonstrate that there are no clinically relevant effects of 
gemfibrozil (a CYP2C8/9 inhibitor), fluconazole (a CYP2C9 inhibitor), ketoconazole (a CYP3A4 
inhibitor), cyclosporine (a p-glycoprotein inhibitor), voglibose (an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor), 
digoxin, metformin, cimetidine, pioglitazone or atorvastatin on the pharmacokinetics of alogliptin. 
Effects of alogliptin on other medicinal products 
In vitro studies suggest that alogliptin does not inhibit nor induce CYP 450 isoforms at concentrations 
achieved with the recommended dose of 25 mg alogliptin (see section 5.2). Interaction with substrates 
of CYP 450 isoforms are thus not expected and have not been shown. In studies in vitro, alogliptin 
was found to be neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of key transporters associated with disposition of 
the active substance in the kidney: organic anion transporter-1, organic anion transporter-3 or organic 
cationic transporter-2 (OCT2). Furthermore, clinical data do not suggest interaction with 
p-glycoprotein inhibitors or substrates. 
In clinical studies, alogliptin had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of caffeine, 
(R)-warfarin, pioglitazone, glyburide, tolbutamide, (S)-warfarin, dextromethorphan, atorvastatin, 
midazolam, an oral contraceptive (norethindrone and ethinyl oestradiol), digoxin, fexofenadine, 
metformin, or cimetidine, thus providing in vivo evidence of a low propensity to cause interaction with 
substrates of CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, p-glycoprotein, and OCT2. 
In healthy subjects, alogliptin had no effect on prothrombin time or International Normalised Ratio 
(INR) when administered concomitantly with warfarin.  
Combination of alogliptin with other anti-diabetic medicinal products 
Results from studies with metformin, pioglitazone (thiazolidinedione), voglibose (alpha-glucosidase 
inhibitor) and glyburide (sulphonylurea) have shown no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic 
interactions. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of Vipdomet in pregnant women. Studies in pregnant rats with 
alogliptin plus metformin as combination treatment have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3) 
at approximately 5-20 times (for metformin and alogliptin respectively) the human exposure at the 
recommended dose.  
Vipdomet should not be used during pregnancy.  
Risk related to alogliptin 
There are no data from the use of alogliptin in pregnant women. Animal studies do not indicate direct 
or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk related to metformin  
A limited amount of data from the use of metformin in pregnant women does not indicate an increased 
risk of congenital abnormalities. Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with 
respect to reproductive toxicity at clinically relevant doses (see section 5.3).  
Breast-feeding 
No studies in lactating animals have been conducted with the combined active substances of 
Vipdomet. In studies performed with the individual active substances, both alogliptin and metformin 
were excreted in the milk of lactating rats. It is unknown whether alogliptin is excreted in human milk. 
Metformin is excreted in human milk in small amounts. A risk to the suckling child cannot be 
excluded. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
Vipdomet therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
The effect of Vipdomet on fertility in humans has not been studied. No adverse effects on fertility 
were observed in animal studies conducted with alogliptin or with metformin (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Vipdomet has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, patients 
should be alerted to the risk of hypoglycaemia especially when used in combination with insulin or 
pioglitazone. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Acute pancreatitis is a serious adverse reaction and is attributed to the alogliptin component of 
Vipdomet (see section 4.4). Hypersensitivity reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, 
anaphylactic reactions, and angioedema are serious and are attributed to the alogliptin component of 
Vipdomet (see section 4.4). Lactic acidosis is a serious adverse reaction, which may occur very rarely 
(<1/10,000), and is attributed to the metformin component of Vipdomet (see section 4.4). Other 
reactions such as upper respiratory tract infections, nasopharyngitis, headache, gastroenteritis, 
abdominal pain, diarrhoea, vomiting, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease, pruritus, rash, 
hypoglycaemia may occur commonly (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) (see section 4.4) which are attributed to 
Vipdomet. 
Clinical studies conducted to support the efficacy and safety of Vipdomet involved the 
co-administration of alogliptin and metformin as separate tablets. However, the results of 
bioequivalence studies have demonstrated that Vipdomet film-coated tablets are bioequivalent to the 
corresponding doses of alogliptin and metformin co-administered as separate tablets. 
The information provided is based on a total of 7,150 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, including 
4,201 patients treated with alogliptin and metformin, who participated in 7 phase 3 double-blind, 
placebo- or active-controlled clinical studies. These studies evaluated the effects of co-administered 
alogliptin and metformin on glycaemic control and their safety as initial combination therapy, as dual 
therapy in patients initially treated with metformin alone, and as add-on therapy to a thiazolidinedione 
or insulin. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions are listed by system organ class and frequency. Frequencies are defined as very 
common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to 
<1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from available data). 
Table 1: Adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Adverse reaction 
Infections and infestations 
upper respiratory tract infections 
Nasopharyngitis 
Immune system disorders 
Hypersensitivity* 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
lactic acidosis* 
vitamin B12 decrease/deficiency* 
hypoglycaemia* 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
metallic taste 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gastroenteritis 
abdominal pain* 
diarrhoea* 
vomiting* 
gastritis 
gastroesophageal reflux disease 
loss of appetite 
nausea 
acute pancreatitis* 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
hepatitis 
Liver function test abnormalities* 
hepatic dysfunction including hepatic failure* 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
pruritus 
rash 
Erythema 
exfoliative skin conditions including Stevens-
Johnson syndrome* 
erythema multiforme* 
Angioedema* 
Urticaria 
bullous pemphigoid* 
Renal and urinary disorders 
interstitial nephritis 
* see section 4.4 for further information 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Alogliptin 
Metformin 
Vipdomet 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
not known 
common 
common 
common 
common 
common 
not known 
not known 
common 
common 
not known 
not known 
not known 
not known 
not known 
not known 
very rare 
common 
common 
very common 
very common 
very common 
very common 
very common 
very rare 
very rare 
very rare 
very rare 
very rare 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Lactic acidosis: 0.03 cases/1,000 patient-years (see section 4.4). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastrointestinal symptoms occur most frequently during initiation of therapy and resolve 
spontaneously in most cases. These may be prevented by taking metformin in 2 daily doses during or 
after meals. 
Isolated cases of hepatitis or liver function test abnormalities resolving on discontinuation of 
metformin have been reported. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No data are available with regard to overdose of Vipdomet.   
Alogliptin 
The highest doses of alogliptin administered in clinical studies were single doses of 800 mg to healthy 
subjects and doses of 400 mg once daily for 14 days to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(equivalent to 32 times and 16 times the recommended total daily dose of 25 mg alogliptin, 
respectively).  
Metformin 
A large overdose of metformin or concomitant risks may lead to lactic acidosis. Lactic acidosis is a 
medical emergency and must be treated in hospital.  
Management 
In the event of an overdose, appropriate supportive measures should be employed as dictated by the 
patient’s clinical status. 
Minimal quantities of alogliptin are removed by haemodialysis (approximately 7% of the substance 
was removed during a 3 hour haemodialysis session). Therefore, haemodialysis is of little clinical 
benefit in removing alogliptin in overdose. It is not known if alogliptin is removed by peritoneal 
dialysis.  
The most effective method of removing lactate and metformin is haemodialysis. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Medicinal products used in diabetes; combinations of oral blood glucose 
lowering medicinal products. 
ATC code: A10BD13. 
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic effects 
Vipdomet combines two antihyperglycaemic medicinal products with complementary and distinct 
mechanisms of action to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
alogliptin, a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor, and metformin, a member of the biguanide 
class.   
Alogliptin 
Alogliptin is a potent and highly selective inhibitor of DPP-4, >10,000-fold more selective for DPP-4 
than other related enzymes including DPP-8 and DPP-9. DPP-4 is the principal enzyme involved in 
the rapid degradation of the incretin hormones, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and GIP 
(glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide), which are released by the intestine and levels are 
increased in response to a meal. GLP-1 and GIP increases insulin biosynthesis and secretion from 
pancreatic beta cells, while GLP-1 also inhibits glucagon secretion and hepatic glucose production. 
Alogliptin therefore improves glycaemic control via a glucose-dependent mechanism, whereby insulin 
release is enhanced and glucagon levels are suppressed when glucose levels are high. 
Metformin 
Metformin is a biguanide with antihyperglycaemic effects, lowering both basal and postprandial 
plasma glucose. It does not stimulate insulin secretion and, therefore, does not produce 
hypoglycaemia.  
Metformin may act via 3 mechanisms: 
- 
- 
- 
by reduction of hepatic glucose production by inhibiting gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis.  
in muscle, by modestly increasing insulin sensitivity, improving peripheral glucose uptake and 
utilisation.  
by delaying intestinal glucose absorption.  
Metformin stimulates intracellular glycogen synthesis by acting on glycogen synthase. It also 
increases the transport capacity of specific types of membrane glucose transporters (GLUT-1 and 
GLUT-4).  
In humans, independently of its action on glycaemia, metformin has favourable effects on lipid 
metabolism. This has been shown at therapeutic doses in controlled, medium-term or long-term 
clinical studies; metformin reduces total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels.  
Clinical efficacy 
Clinical studies conducted to support the efficacy of Vipdomet involved the co-administration of 
alogliptin and metformin as separate tablets. However, the results of bioequivalence studies have 
demonstrated that Vipdomet film-coated tablets are bioequivalent to the corresponding doses of 
alogliptin and metformin co-administered as separate tablets. 
The co-administration of alogliptin and metformin has been studied as dual therapy in patients initially 
treated with metformin alone, and as add-on therapy to a thiazolidinedione or insulin. 
Administration of 25 mg alogliptin to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus produced peak inhibition 
of DPP-4 within 1 to 2 hours and exceeded 93% both after a single 25 mg dose and after 14 days of 
once-daily dosing. Inhibition of DPP-4 remained above 81% at 24 hours after 14 days of dosing. 
When the 4-hour postprandial glucose concentrations were averaged across breakfast, lunch and 
dinner, 14 days of treatment with 25 mg alogliptin resulted in a mean placebo-corrected reduction 
from baseline of -35.2 mg/dL. 
Both 25 mg alogliptin alone and in combination with 30 mg pioglitazone demonstrated significant 
decreases in postprandial glucose and postprandial glucagon whilst significantly increasing 
postprandial active GLP-1 levels at Week 16 compared to placebo (p<0.05). In addition, 25 mg 
alogliptin alone and in combination with 30 mg pioglitazone produced statistically significant 
(p<0.001) reductions in total triglycerides at Week 16 as measured by postprandial incremental 
AUC(0-8) change from baseline compared to placebo. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 7,151 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, including 4,202 patients treated with alogliptin 
and metformin, participated in 7 phase 3 double-blind, placebo- or active-controlled clinical studies 
conducted to evaluate the effects of co-administered alogliptin and metformin on glycaemic control 
and their safety. In these studies, 696 alogliptin/metformin-treated patients were ≥ 65 years old. 
Overall, treatment with the recommended total daily dose of 25 mg alogliptin in combination with 
metformin improved glycaemic control. This was determined by clinically relevant and statistically 
significant reductions in glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and fasting plasma glucose compared to 
control from baseline to study endpoint. Reductions in HbA1c were similar across different subgroups 
including renal impairment, age, gender and body mass index, while differences between races (e.g. 
White and non-White) were small. Clinically meaningful reductions in HbA1c compared to control 
were also observed regardless of baseline background treatment. Higher baseline HbA1c was 
associated with a greater reduction in HbA1c. Generally, the effects of alogliptin on body weight and 
lipids were neutral. 
Alogliptin as add-on therapy to metformin 
The addition of 25 mg alogliptin once daily to metformin hydrochloride therapy (mean 
dose = 1,847 mg) resulted in statistically significant improvements from baseline in HbA1c and 
fasting plasma glucose at Week 26 when compared to the addition of placebo (Table 2). Significantly 
more patients receiving 25 mg alogliptin (44.4%) achieved target HbA1c levels of ≤7.0% compared to 
those receiving placebo (18.3%) at Week 26 (p<0.001).   
The addition of 25 mg alogliptin once daily to metformin hydrochloride therapy (mean 
dose = 1,835 mg) resulted in improvements from baseline in HbA1c at Week 52 and Week 104. At 
Week 52, the HbA1c reduction by 25 mg alogliptin plus metformin (-0.76%, Table 3) was similar to 
that produced by glipizide (mean dose = 5.2 mg) plus metformin hydrochloride therapy (mean 
dose = 1,824 mg, -0.73%). At Week 104, the HbA1c reduction by 25 mg alogliptin plus metformin 
(-0.72%, Table 3) was greater than that produced by glipizide plus metformin (-0.59%). Mean change 
from baseline in fasting plasma glucose at Week 52 for 25 mg alogliptin and metformin was 
significantly greater than that for glipizide and metformin (p<0.001). By Week 104, mean change 
from baseline in fasting plasma glucose for 25 mg alogliptin and metformin was -3.2 mg/dL compared 
with 5.4 mg/dL for glipizide and metformin. More patients receiving 25 mg alogliptin and metformin 
(48.5%) achieved target HbA1c levels of ≤7.0% compared to those receiving glipizide and metformin 
(42.8%) (p=0.004). 
Co-administration of 12.5 mg alogliptin and 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride twice daily resulted in 
statistically significant improvements from baseline in HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose at Week 26 
when compared to either 12.5 mg alogliptin twice daily alone or 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride 
twice daily alone. Significantly more patients receiving 12.5 mg alogliptin and 1.000 mg metformin 
hydrochloride twice daily (59.5%) achieved target HbA1c levels of < 7.0% compared to those 
receiving either 12.5 mg alogliptin twice daily alone (20.2%, p<0.001) or 1,000 mg metformin 
hydrochloride twice daily alone (34.3%, p<0.001) at Week 26.  
Alogliptin as add-on therapy to metformin with a thiazolidinedione 
The addition of 25 mg alogliptin once daily to pioglitazone therapy (mean dose = 35.0 mg, with or 
without metformin or a sulphonylurea) resulted in statistically significant improvements from baseline 
in HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose at Week 26 when compared to the addition of placebo (Table 2). 
Clinically meaningful reductions in HbA1c compared to placebo were also observed with 25 mg 
alogliptin regardless of whether patients were receiving concomitant metformin or sulphonylurea 
therapy. Significantly more patients receiving 25 mg alogliptin (49.2%) achieved target HbA1c levels 
of ≤7.0% compared to those receiving placebo (34.0%) at Week 26 (p=0.004).  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The addition of 25 mg alogliptin once daily to 30 mg pioglitazone in combination with metformin 
hydrochloride therapy (mean dose = 1,867.9 mg) resulted in improvements from baseline in HbA1c at 
Week 52 that were both non-inferior and statistically superior to those produced by 45 mg 
pioglitazone in combination with metformin hydrochloride therapy (mean dose = 1,847.6 mg, 
Table 3). The significant reductions in HbA1c observed with 25 mg alogliptin plus 30 mg pioglitazone 
and metformin were consistent over the entire 52-week treatment period compared to 45 mg 
pioglitazone and metformin (p<0.001 at all time points). In addition, mean change from baseline in 
FPG at Week 52 for 25 mg alogliptin plus 30 mg pioglitazone and metformin was significantly greater 
than that for 45 mg pioglitazone and metformin (p<0.001). Significantly more patients receiving 
25 mg alogliptin plus 30 mg pioglitazone and metformin (33.2%) achieved target HbA1c levels of 
≤7.0% compared to those receiving 45 mg pioglitazone and metformin (21.3%) at Week 52 (p<0.001).  
Alogliptin as add-on therapy to metformin with insulin 
The addition of 25 mg alogliptin once daily to insulin therapy (mean dose = 56.5 IU, with or without 
metformin) resulted in statistically significant improvements from baseline in HbA1c and FPG at 
Week 26 when compared to the addition of placebo (Table 2). Clinically meaningful reductions in 
HbA1c compared to placebo were also observed with 25 mg alogliptin regardless of whether patients 
were receiving concomitant metformin therapy. More patients receiving 25 mg alogliptin (7.8%) 
achieved target HbA1c levels of ≤7.0% compared to those receiving placebo (0.8%) at Week 26.  
Table 2: Change in HbA1c (%) from baseline with alogliptin 25 mg at Week 26  
by placebo-controlled study (FAS, LOCF) 
Mean change from 
baseline in HbA1c 
(%)† (SE) 
Mean baseline 
HbA1c (%) (SD) 
Study 
Placebo-corrected 
change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%)† 
(2-sided 95% CI) 
Add-on combination therapy placebo-controlled studies 
Alogliptin 25 mg 
once daily with 
metformin 
(n=203) 
Alogliptin 25 mg 
once daily with a 
sulphonylurea 
(n=197) 
Alogliptin 25 mg 
once daily with a 
thiazolidinedione ± 
metformin or a 
sulphonylurea 
(n=195) 
Alogliptin 25 mg 
once daily with 
insulin + metformin 
(n=126) 
7.93 
(0.799) 
8.09 
(0.898) 
8.01 
(0.837) 
-0.59 
(0.054) 
-0.52 
(0.058) 
-0.80 
(0.056) 
-0.48* 
(-0.67, -0.30) 
-0.53* 
(-0.73, -0.33) 
-0.61* 
(-0.80, -0.41) 
9.27 
(1.127) 
-0.71 
(0.078) 
-0.59* 
(-0.80, -0.37) 
FAS = full analysis set 
LOCF = last observation carried forward 
† Least squares means adjusted for prior antihyperglycaemic therapy status and baseline values 
* p<0.001 compared to placebo or placebo+combination treatment 
14 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Table 3: Change in HbA1c (%) from baseline with alogliptin 25 mg 
by active-controlled study (PPS, LOCF) 
Mean baseline 
HbA1c (%) (SD) 
Mean change from 
baseline in HbA1c 
(%)† (SE) 
Treatment-corrected 
change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%)† 
(1-sided CI) 
Add-on combination therapy studies 
Alogliptin 25 mg 
once daily with 
metformin vs a 
sulphonylurea + 
metformin 
Change at Week 52 
(n=382) 
Change at 
Week 104  
(n=382) 
Alogliptin 25 mg 
once daily with a 
thiazolidinedione + 
metformin vs a 
titrating 
thiazolidinedione + 
metformin 
Change at Week 26 
(n=303) 
Change at Week 52 
(n=303) 
7.61 
(0.526) 
7.61 
(0.526) 
8.25 
(0.820) 
8.25 
(0.820) 
-0.76 
(0.027) 
-0.72 
(0.037) 
-0.89 
(0.042) 
-0.70 
(0.048) 
-0.03 
(-infinity, 0.059) 
-0.13* 
(-infinity, -0.006) 
-0.47* 
(-infinity, -0.35) 
-0.42* 
(-infinity, -0.28) 
PPS = per protocol set 
LOCF = last observation carried forward 
*Non inferiority and superiority statistically demonstrated 
† Least squares means adjusted for prior antihyperglycaemic therapy status and baseline values 
Elderly (≥65 years old) 
The efficacy and safety of the recommended doses of alogliptin and metformin in a subgroup of 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and ≥65 years old were reviewed and found to be consistent with 
the profile obtained in patients <65 years old. 
Clinical safety 
Cardiovascular Safety 
In a pooled analysis of the data from 13 studies, the overall incidences of cardiovascular death, non 
fatal myocardial infarction and non-fatal stroke were comparable in patients treated with 25 mg 
alogliptin, active control or placebo. 
In addition, a prospective randomised cardiovascular outcomes safety study was conducted with 
5,380 patients with high underlying cardiovascular risk to examine the effect of alogliptin compared 
with placebo (when added to standard of care) on major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) 
including time to the first occurrence of any event in the composite of cardiovascular death, nonfatal 
myocardial infarction and nonfatal stroke in patients with a recent (15 to 90 days) acute coronary 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
event. At baseline, patients had a mean age of 61 years, mean duration of diabetes of 9.2 years, and 
mean HbA1c of 8.0%. 
The study demonstrated that alogliptin did not increase the risk of having a MACE compared to 
placebo [Hazard Ratio: 0.96; 1-sided 99% Confidence Interval: 0-1.16]. In the alogliptin group, 11.3% 
of patients experienced a MACE compared to 11.8% of patients in the placebo group.  
Table 4. MACE Reported in cardiovascular outcomes study 
Number of Patients (%) 
Alogliptin 
25 mg 
Placebo 
N=2,701 
N=2,679 
305 (11.3) 
Primary Composite Endpoint [First 
Event of CV Death, Nonfatal MI and 
Nonfatal Stroke] 
Cardiovascular Death* 
Nonfatal Myocardial Infarction 
Nonfatal Stroke 
*Overall there were 153 subjects (5.7%) in the alogliptin group and 
173 subjects (6.5%) in the placebo group who died (all-cause 
mortality) 
111 (4.1) 
173 (6.5) 
32 (1.2) 
89 (3.3) 
187 (6.9) 
29 (1.1) 
316 (11.8) 
There were 703 patients who experienced an event within the secondary MACE composite endpoint 
(first event of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke and urgent 
revascularization due to unstable angina). In the alogliptin group, 12.7% (344 subjects) experienced an 
event within the secondary MACE composite endpoint, compared with 13.4% (359 subjects) in the 
placebo group [Hazard Ratio = 0.95; 1-sided 99% Confidence Interval: 0-1.14]. 
Hypoglycaemia 
In a pooled analysis of the data from 12 studies, the overall incidence of any episode of 
hypoglycaemia was lower in patients treated with 25 mg alogliptin than in patients treated with 
12.5 mg alogliptin, active control or placebo (3.6%, 4.6%, 12.9% and 6.2%, respectively). The 
majority of these episodes were mild to moderate in intensity. The overall incidence of episodes of 
severe hypoglycaemia was comparable in patients treated with 25 mg alogliptin or 12.5 mg alogliptin, 
and lower than the incidence in patients treated with active control or placebo (0.1%, 0.1%, 0.4% and 
0.4%, respectively). In the prospective randomised controlled cardiovascular outcomes study, 
investigator reported events of hypoglycemia were similar in patients receiving placebo (6.5%) and 
patients receiving alogliptin (6.7%) in addition to standard of care. 
In a clinical trial of alogliptin as mono-therapy, the incidence of hypoglycaemia was similar to that of 
placebo, and lower than placebo in another trial as add-on to a sulphonylurea.  
Higher rates of hypoglycaemia were observed with triple therapy with a thiazolidinedione and 
metformin and in combination with insulin, as observed with other DPP-4 inhibitors.  
Patients (≥65 years old) with type 2 diabetes mellitus are considered more susceptible to episodes of 
hypoglycaemia than patients <65 years old. In a pooled analysis of the data from 12 studies, the 
overall incidence of any episode of hypoglycaemia was similar in patients ≥65 years old treated with 
25 mg alogliptin (3.8%) to that in patients <65 years old (3.6%). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Vipdomet in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The results of bioequivalence studies in healthy subjects demonstrated that Vipdomet film-coated 
tablets are bioequivalent to the corresponding doses of alogliptin and metformin co-administered as 
separate tablets. 
Co-administration of 100 mg alogliptin once daily and 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride twice daily 
for 6 days in healthy subjects had no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of alogliptin 
or metformin. 
Administration of Vipdomet with food resulted in no change in total exposure (AUC) to alogliptin or 
metformin. However, mean peak plasma concentrations of alogliptin and metformin were decreased 
by 13% and 28% when Vipdomet was administered with food, respectively. There was no change in 
the time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax) for alogliptin, but there was a delayed Tmax for metformin 
of 1.5 hours. These changes are not likely to be clinically significant (see below). 
Vipdomet should be taken twice daily because of the pharmacokinetics of its metformin component. It 
should also be taken with meals to reduce the gastrointestinal undesirable effects associated with 
metformin (see section 4.2). 
The pharmacokinetics of Vipdomet in children and adolescents <18 years old has not been established. 
No data are available (see section 4.2). 
The following section outlines the pharmacokinetic properties of the individual components of 
Vipdomet (alogliptin/metformin) as reported in their respective Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Alogliptin 
The pharmacokinetics of alogliptin has been shown to be similar in healthy subjects and in patients 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Absorption 
The absolute bioavailability of alogliptin is approximately 100%.   
Administration with a high-fat meal resulted in no change in total and peak exposure to alogliptin. 
Alogliptin may, therefore, be administered with or without food.  
After administration of single oral doses of up to 800 mg in healthy subjects, alogliptin was rapidly 
absorbed with peak plasma concentrations occurring 1 to 2 hours (median Tmax) after dosing. 
No clinically relevant accumulation after multiple dosing was observed in either healthy subjects or in 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.  
Total and peak exposure to alogliptin increased proportionately across single doses of 6.25 mg up to 
100 mg alogliptin (covering the therapeutic dose range). The inter-subject coefficient of variation for 
alogliptin AUC was small (17%).   
Distribution 
Following a single intravenous dose of 12.5 mg alogliptin to healthy subjects, the volume of 
distribution during the terminal phase was 417 L indicating that the active substance is well distributed 
into tissues.  
Alogliptin is 20-30% bound to plasma proteins. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Alogliptin does not undergo extensive metabolism, 60-70% of the dose is excreted as unchanged 
active substance in the urine.  
Two minor metabolites were detected following administration of an oral dose of [14C] alogliptin, 
N-demethylated alogliptin, M-I (< 1% of the parent compound), and N-acetylated alogliptin, 
M-II (< 6% of the parent compound). M-I is an active metabolite and is a highly selective inhibitor of 
DPP-4 similar to alogliptin; M-II does not display any inhibitory activity towards DPP-4 or other 
DPP-related enzymes. In vitro data indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 contribute to the limited 
metabolism of alogliptin.  
In vitro studies indicate that alogliptin does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and CYP2C9 and does not 
inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 at concentrations 
achieved with the recommended dose of 25 mg alogliptin. Studies in vitro have shown alogliptin to be 
a mild inducer of CYP3A4, but alogliptin has not been shown to induce CYP3A4 in studies in vivo.  
In studies in vitro, alogliptin was not an inhibitor of the following renal transporters; OAT1, OAT3 
and OCT2. 
Alogliptin exists predominantly as the (R)-enantiomer (>99%) and undergoes little or no chiral 
conversion in vivo to the (S)-enantiomer. The (S)-enantiomer is not detectable at therapeutic doses.  
Elimination 
Alogliptin was eliminated with a mean terminal half-life (T1/2) of approximately 21 hours.  
Following administration of an oral dose of [14C] alogliptin, 76% of total radioactivity was eliminated 
in the urine and 13% was recovered in the faeces.  
The average renal clearance of alogliptin (170 mL/min) was greater than the average estimated 
glomerular filtration rate (approx. 120 mL/min), suggesting some active renal excretion. 
Time-dependency 
Total exposure (AUC(0-inf)) to alogliptin following administration of a single dose was similar to 
exposure during one dose interval (AUC(0-24)) after 6 days of once daily dosing. This indicates no 
time-dependency in the kinetics of alogliptin after multiple dosing. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
A single dose of 50 mg alogliptin was administered to 4 groups of patients with varying degrees of 
renal impairment (CrCl using the Cockcroft-Gault formula): mild (CrCl = >50 to ≤80 mL/min), 
moderate (CrCl = ≥30 to ≤50 mL/min), severe (CrCl = <30 mL/min) and end-stage renal disease on 
haemodialysis.  
An approximate 1.7-fold increase in AUC for alogliptin was observed in patients with mild renal 
impairment. However, as the distribution of AUC values for alogliptin in these patients was within the 
same range as control subjects, no dose adjustment of alogliptin for patients with mild renal 
impairment is necessary (see section 4.2).  
In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, or end-stage renal disease on haemodialysis, an 
increase in systemic exposure to alogliptin of approximately 2- and 4-fold was observed, respectively. 
(Patients with end-stage renal disease underwent haemodialysis immediately after alogliptin dosing. 
Based on mean dialysate concentrations, approximately 7% of the active substance was removed 
during a 3-hour haemodialysis session.) Therefore, in order to maintain systemic exposures to 
alogliptin that are similar to those observed in patients with normal renal function, lower doses of 
alogliptin should be used in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, or end-stage renal 
disease requiring dialysis (see above and section 4.2).  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Total exposure to alogliptin was approximately 10% lower and peak exposure was approximately 
8% lower in patients with moderate hepatic impairment compared to control subjects. The magnitude 
of these reductions was not considered to be clinically relevant. Therefore, no dose adjustment of 
alogliptin is necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh scores 
of 5 to 9). Alogliptin has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
score >9). 
Age, gender, race, body weight 
Age (65-81 years old), gender, race (white, black and Asian) and body weight did not have any 
clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of alogliptin. No dose adjustment is necessary (see 
section 4.2).  
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of alogliptin in children and adolescents <18 years old has not been established. 
No data are available (see section 4.2 and above). 
Metformin 
Absorption 
After an oral dose of metformin, the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) is reached in 
approximately 2.5 hours (Tmax). Absolute bioavailability of a 500 mg or 850 mg metformin 
hydrochloride tablet is approximately 50-60% in healthy subjects. After an oral dose, the 
non-absorbed fraction recovered in faeces was 20-30%. 
After oral administration, metformin absorption is saturable and incomplete. It is assumed that the 
pharmacokinetics of metformin absorption is non-linear.  
At the recommended metformin doses and dosing schedules, steady-state plasma concentrations of 
metformin are reached within 24 to 48 hours and are generally less than 1 microgram/mL. In 
controlled clinical studies, maximum metformin plasma levels (Cmax) did not exceed 4 microgram/mL 
even at maximum doses.  
Food slightly delays and decreases the extent of the absorption of metformin. Following oral 
administration of an 850 mg metformin hydrochloride tablet, the peak plasma concentration was 
40% lower, AUC was decreased by 25% and the time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax) was 
prolonged by 35 minutes. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown.  
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding is negligible. Metformin partitions into erythrocytes. The blood peak is lower 
than the plasma peak and appears at approximately the same time. The red blood cells most likely 
represent a secondary compartment of distribution. The mean volume of distribution (Vd) ranged 
between 63-276 L.  
Biotransformation 
Metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine. No metabolites have been identified in humans.  
Elimination 
Renal clearance of metformin is >400 mL/min indicating that metformin is eliminated by glomerular 
filtration and tubular secretion. Following an oral dose, the apparent terminal elimination half-life is 
approximately 6.5 hours.  
When renal function is impaired, renal clearance is decreased in proportion to that of creatinine and, 
thus, the elimination half-life is prolonged leading to increased levels of metformin in the plasma.  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vipdomet 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Due to its metformin component, Vipdomet should not be used in patients with severe renal 
impairment, or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Vipdomet should not be used in patients with hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Concomitant treatment with alogliptin and metformin did not produce new toxicities and no effects on 
the toxicokinetics of either compound were observed. 
In rats no treatment-related foetal abnormalities occurred following concomitant administration at 
exposure margins of approximately 28- to 29-fold for alogliptin and 2- to 2.5-fold for metformin at the 
maximum recommended human dose of 25 mg/day and 2,000 mg/day, respectively. The combination 
revealed teratogenic potential in small numbers of foetuses (microphthalmia, small eye bulge and cleft 
palate) at higher doses of metformin (exposure margins of approximately 20-fold and 5- to 6-fold the 
maximum recommended human dose for alogliptin and metformin, respectively). 
The following data are findings from studies performed with alogliptin or metformin individually. 
Alogliptin 
Nonclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology and toxicology. 
The no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) in the repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs 
up to 26- and 39-weeks in duration, respectively, produced exposure margins that were approximately 
147- and 227-fold, respectively, the exposure in humans at the recommended total daily dose of 25 mg 
alogliptin. 
Alogliptin was not genotoxic in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies. 
Alogliptin was not carcinogenic in 2-year carcinogenicity studies conducted in rats and mice. Minimal 
to mild simple transitional cell hyperplasia was seen in the urinary bladder of male rats at the lowest 
dose used (27 times the human exposure) without establishment of a clear NOEL (no observed effect 
level). 
No adverse effects of alogliptin were observed upon fertility, reproductive performance, or early 
embryonic development in rats up to a systemic exposure far above the human exposure at the 
recommended dose. Although fertility was not affected, a slight, statistical increase in the number of 
abnormal sperm was observed in males at an exposure far above the human exposure at the 
recommended dose.  
Placental transfer of alogliptin occurs in rats. 
Alogliptin was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits with a systemic exposure at the NOAELs far above the 
human exposure at the recommended dose. Higher doses of alogliptin were not teratogenic but 
resulted in maternal toxicity, and were associated with delayed and/or lack of ossification of bones and 
decreased foetal body weights. 
In a pre- and postnatal development study in rats, exposures far above the human exposure at the 
recommended dose did not harm the developing embryo or affect offspring growth and development. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Higher doses of alogliptin decreased offspring body weight and exerted some developmental effects 
considered secondary to the low body weight. 
Studies in lactating rats indicate that alogliptin is excreted in milk. 
No alogliptin-related effects were observed in juvenile rats following repeat-dose administration for 
4 and 8 weeks. 
Metformin 
Preclinical data for metformin reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of 
safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, and toxicity to 
reproduction. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Mannitol 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Povidone K30 
Crospovidone Type A 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coating 
Hypromellose 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172)  
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE)/polyvinyl chloride (PVC) blisters with push through aluminium 
lidding foil. Pack sizes of 10, 14, 20, 28, 56, 60, 98, 112, 120, 180, 196, 200 or multipacks containing 
196 (2 packs of 98) film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/843/001-026  
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 September 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 24 May 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Takeda Ireland Ltd. 
Bray Business Park  
Kilruddery 
Co Wicklow 
Ireland 
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C. 
• 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D. 
• 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (WITH BLUE BOX) 
(EXCLUDING MULTIPACKS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets 
alogliptin/metformin hydrochloride  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 12.5 mg alogliptin (as benzoate) and 850 mg metformin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
112 film-coated tablets 
120 film-coated tablets 
180 film-coated tablets 
196 film-coated tablets 
200 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/843/001 10 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/002 14 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/003 20 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/004 28 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/005 56 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/006 60 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/007 98 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/008 112 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/009 120 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/010 180 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/011 196 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/012 200 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
MULTIPACKS ONLY (2X98 TABLETS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets 
alogliptin/metformin hydrochloride  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 12.5 mg alogliptin (as benzoate) and 850 mg metformin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
98 film-coated tablets 
Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately. 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
6. 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10. 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/843/025 2x98 film-coated tablets  
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER LABEL (WITH BLUE BOX) 
MULTIPACKS ONLY (2X98 TABLETS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets 
alogliptin/metformin hydrochloride  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 12.5 mg alogliptin (as benzoate) and 850 mg metformin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 196 (2 packs of 98) film-coated tablets. 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
6. 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10. 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/843/025 196 (2x98) film-coated tablets (multipack) 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg tablets 
alogliptin/metformin hydrochloride 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (WITH BLUE BOX) 
(EXCLUDING MULTIPACKS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets 
alogliptin/metformin hydrochloride  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 12.5 mg alogliptin (as benzoate) and 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
112 film-coated tablets 
120 film-coated tablets 
180 film-coated tablets 
196 film-coated tablets 
200 film-coated tablets 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
6. 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10. 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/843/013 10 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/014 14 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/015 20 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/016 28 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/017 56 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/018 60 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/019 98 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/020 112 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/021 120 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/022 180 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/023 196 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/13/843/024 200 film-coated tablets 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
MULTIPACKS ONLY (2X98 TABLETS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets 
alogliptin/metformin hydrochloride  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 12.5 mg alogliptin (as benzoate) and 1,000  mg metformin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
98 film-coated tablets 
Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately. 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
6. 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10. 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/843/026 2x98 film-coated tablets 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER LABEL (WITH BLUE BOX)  
MULTIPACKS ONLY (2X98 TABLETS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets 
alogliptin/metformin hydrochloride  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 12.5 mg alogliptin (as benzoate) and 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 196 (2 packs of 98) film-coated tablets 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
6. 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10. 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/843/026 196 (2x98) film-coated tablets (multipack) 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1000 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg tablets 
alogliptin/metformin hydrochloride 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1000 mg film-coated tablets 
alogliptin/metformin hydrochloride 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What Vipdomet is and what it is used for  
What you need to know before you take Vipdomet 
How to take Vipdomet 
Possible side effects  
How to store Vipdomet 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Vipdomet is and what it is used for 
What Vipdomet is 
Vipdomet contains two different medicines called alogliptin and metformin in one tablet: 
- 
- 
alogliptin belongs to a group of medicines called DPP-4 inhibitors (dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
inhibitors). Alogliptin works to increase the levels of insulin in the body after a meal and 
decrease the amount of sugar in the body.  
metformin belongs to a group of medicines called biguanides which also help to lower blood 
sugar by lowering the amount of sugar made in the liver and helping insulin to work more 
effectively. 
Both of these groups of medicines are “oral anti-diabetics”. 
What Vipdomet is used for 
Vipdomet is used to lower blood sugar levels in adults with type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is also 
called non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus or NIDDM. 
Vipdomet is taken when your blood sugar cannot be adequately controlled by diet, exercise and other 
anti-diabetic medicines such as metformin alone; insulin alone; or metformin and pioglitazone taken 
together.  
If you are already taking both alogliptin and metformin as single tablets, Vipdomet can replace them in 
one tablet. 
It is important that you continue to follow the advice on diet and exercise that your nurse or doctor has 
given you. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2.  What you need to know before you take Vipdomet 
Do not take Vipdomet 
- 
if you are allergic to alogliptin, metformin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). 
if you have had a serious allergic reaction to any other similar medicines that you take to control 
your blood sugar. Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction may include; rash, raised red patches 
on your skin (hives), swelling of the face, lips, tongue, and throat that may cause difficulty in 
breathing or swallowing. Additional symptoms may include general itching and feeling of heat 
especially affecting the scalp, mouth, throat, palms of hands and soles of feet (Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome). 
if you have severely reduced kidney function 
if you have uncontrolled diabetes, with, for example, severe hyperglycaemia (high blood 
glucose), nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, rapid weight loss, lactate acidosis (see “Risk of lactic 
acidosis” below) or ketoacidosis. Ketoacidosis is a condition in which substances called 'ketone 
bodies' accumulate in the blood and which can lead to diabetic pre-coma. Symptoms include 
stomach pain, fast and deep breathing, sleepiness or your breath developing an unusual fruity 
smell.  
if you have a severe infection or are seriously dehydrated (have lost a lot of water from your 
body) 
if you recently had a heart attack or have severe circulatory problems including shock 
if you have severe breathing difficulties  
if you have liver disease 
if you drink alcohol excessively (either every day or in large quantities only from time to time) 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Vipdomet : 
- 
- 
if you have type 1 diabetes (your body does not produce insulin). 
if you are taking Vipdomet with insulin or a thiazolidinedione. Your doctor may want to reduce 
your dose of insulin or a thiazolidinedione when you take it together with Vipdomet in order to 
avoid too low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia). 
if you are taking another medicine for diabetes that contains a “sulphonylurea”, you should not 
start taking Vipdomet. 
if you have or have had a disease of the pancreas. 
in case of symptoms suggestive of liver injury during Vipdomet therapy. 
Contact your doctor if you encounter blistering of the skin, as it may be a sign for a condition called 
bullous pemphigoid. Your doctor may ask you to stop alogliptin. 
Risk of lactic acidosis 
Vipdomet may cause a very rare, but very serious side effect called lactic acidosis, particularly if your 
kidneys are not working properly. The risk of developing lactic acidosis is also increased with 
uncontrolled diabetes, serious infections, prolonged fasting or alcohol intake, dehydration (see further 
information below), liver problems and any medical conditions in which a part of the body has a 
reduced supply of oxygen (such as acute severe heart disease). If any of the above apply to you, talk to 
your doctor for further instructions. 
Stop taking Vipdomet for a short time if you have a condition that may be associated with 
dehydration (significant loss of body fluids) such as severe vomiting, diarrhoea, fever, exposure to 
heat or if you drink less fluid than normal. Talk to your doctor for further instructions. 
Stop taking Vipdomet and contact a doctor or the nearest hospital immediately if you experience 
some of the symptoms of lactic acidosis, as this condition may lead to coma. 
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in a hospital. If lactic acidosis is suspected, 
seek medical attention from a doctor or a hospital. 
Symptoms of lactic acidosis include: 
- 
vomiting 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
stomach ache (abdominal pain) 
muscle cramps 
a general feeling of not being well with severe tiredness 
difficulty in breathing 
reduced body temperature and heartbeat. 
If you need to have major surgery you must stop taking Vipdomet during and for some time before 
and after the procedure. Your doctor will decide when you must stop and when to restart your 
treatment with Vipdomet. 
During treatment with Vipdomet, your doctor will check your kidney function at least once a year or 
more frequently if you are elderly and/or if have worsening kidney function 
Children and adolescents 
Vipdomet is not recommended for children and adolescents under 18 years due to the lack of data in 
these patients.  
Other medicines and Vipdomet 
If you need to have an injection of a contrast medium that contains iodine into your bloodstream, for 
example in the context of an X-ray or scan, you must stop taking Vipdomet before or at the time of the 
injection. Your doctor will decide when you must stop and when to restart your treatment with 
Vipdomet. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. You may need more frequent blood glucose and kidney function tests, or your doctor may 
need to adjust the dose of Vipdomet. It is especially important to mention the following: 
- 
hydrocortisone and prednisolone (corticosteroids), used to treat diseases that involve 
inflammation like asthma and arthritis  
cimetidine, used to treat stomach problems 
bronchodilators (beta-2 agonists), used to treat asthma 
medicines which increase urine production (diuretics)  
medicines used to treat pain and inflammation (NSAID and COX-2-inhibitors, such as 
ibuprofen and celecoxib),  
certain medicines used for the treatment of high blood pressure (ACE inhibitors  and 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists)  
medicines containing alcohol. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Vipdomet with alcohol 
Avoid excessive alcohol intake while taking Vipdomet since this may increase the risk of lactic 
acidosis - see section “Warnings and precautions”. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. You should not use Vipdomet if you 
are pregnant. 
Vipdomet is not recommended during breast-feeding since metformin passes into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
Vipdomet is not known to affect your ability to drive and use machines. Taking Vipdomet in 
combination with medicines called pioglitazone or insulin can cause too low blood sugar levels 
(hypoglycaemia), which may affect your ability to drive and use machines.  
3. 
How to take Vipdomet 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your doctor will tell you exactly how much Vipdomet you need to take. The amount of Vipdomet will 
vary depending on your condition and the doses you currently take of metformin alone, metformin in 
combination with pioglitazone, insulin and/or individual tablets of alogliptin and metformin.  
The recommended dose is one tablet twice a day. If you have reduced kidney function, your doctor 
may prescribe a lower dose, which may need to be given as separate tablets of alogliptin and 
metformin. 
Swallow your tablet(s) whole with water. You should take this medicine with food to reduce your 
chance of an upset stomach. 
If you take more Vipdomet than you should 
If you take more tablets than you should, or if someone else or a child takes your medicine, contact or 
go to your nearest emergency centre straight away. Take this leaflet or some tablets with you so that 
your doctor knows exactly what you have taken.  
If you forget to take Vipdomet 
If you forget to take a dose, take it as soon as you remember it. Do not take a double dose to make up 
for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Vipdomet 
Do not stop taking Vipdomet without consulting your doctor first. Your blood sugar levels may 
increase when you stop taking Vipdomet. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
STOP taking Vipdomet and contact a doctor or the nearest hospital immediately if you notice 
any of the symptoms of the following serious side effects: 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
- 
Lactic acidosis (a build-up of lactic acid in the blood) is a very serious side effect that may lead 
to coma. For symptoms see section “Warnings and precautions”.  
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
- 
An allergic reaction. The symptoms may include: a rash, hives, swallowing or breathing 
problems, swelling of your lips, face, throat or tongue and feeling faint. 
A severe allergic reaction: skin lesions or spots on your skin that can progress to a sore 
surrounded by pale or red rings, blistering and/or peeling of the skin possibly with symptoms 
such as itching, fever, overall ill feeling, achy joints, vision problems, burning, painful or itchy 
eyes and mouth sores (Stevens-Johnson syndrome and Erythema multiforme). 
Severe and persistent pain in the abdomen (stomach area) which might reach through to your 
back as well as nausea and vomiting, as it could be a sign of an inflamed pancreas (pancreatitis).  
- 
- 
You should also discuss with your doctor if you experience the following side effects:  
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Stomach ache 
Diarrhoea  
Loss of appetite 
Feeling sick  
Being sick. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
Symptoms of low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia) may occur when Vipdomet is taken in 
combination with insulin or sulphonylureas (e.g. glipizide, tolbutamide, glibenclamide). 
Symptoms may include: trembling, sweating, anxiety, blurred vision, tingling lips, paleness, 
mood change or feeling confused. Your blood sugar could fall below the normal level, but can 
be increased again by taking sugar. It is recommended that you carry some sugar lumps, sweets, 
biscuits or sugary fruit juice. 
Cold symptoms such as sore throat, stuffy or blocked nose, feeling tired, fever, chills, dry cough 
Rash  
Itchy skin with or without hives 
Headache 
Indigestion, heartburn 
Vomiting and/or diarrhoea 
Metallic taste 
Decreased or low vitamin B12 levels in the blood (symptoms may include extreme tiredness 
(fatigue), a sore and red tongue (glossitis), pins and needles (paraesthesia) or pale or yellow 
skin).  Your doctor may arrange some tests to find out the cause of your symptoms because 
some of these may also be caused by diabetes or due to other unrelated health problems 
Very rare: 
- 
- 
Liver problems (hepatitis or liver function test abnormalities) 
Erythema (redness of skin). 
Not known: 
- 
Liver problems such as nausea or vomiting, stomach pain, unusual or unexplained tiredness, 
loss of appetite, dark urine or yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes. 
Inflammation of the connective tissue within the kidneys (interstitial nephritis) 
Blistering of the skin (bullous pemphigoid). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Vipdomet 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
The active substances are alogliptin and metformin hydrochloride. 
What Vipdomet contains  
- 
Each 12.5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablet contains alogliptin benzoate equivalent to 12.5 mg alogliptin 
and 850 mg metformin hydrochloride. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each 12.5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablet contains alogliptin benzoate equivalent to 12.5 mg 
alogliptin and 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride. 
- 
The other ingredients are mannitol, microcrystalline cellulose, povidone K30, 
crospovidone Type A, magnesium stearate, hypromellose, talc, titanium dioxide (E171) and 
yellow iron oxide (E172). 
What Vipdomet looks like and contents of the pack 
- 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets (tablets) are light yellow, oblong (approximately 
21.0 mm long by 10.1 mm wide), biconvex, film-coated tablets with “12.5/850” debossed on 
one side and “322M” debossed on the other side. 
Vipdomet 12.5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets (tablets) are pale yellow, oblong 
(approximately 22.3 mm long by 10.7 mm wide), biconvex, film-coated tablets with 
“12.5/1000” debossed on one side and “322M” debossed on the other side.  
- 
Vipdomet is available in blister packs containing 10, 14, 20, 28, 56, 60, 98, 112, 120, 180, 196, 
200 tablets and in multipacks comprising 2 packs each containing 98 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark  
Manufacturer 
Takeda Ireland Limited 
Bray Business Park 
Kilruddery 
Co. Wicklow 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tel/Tél: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
България 
Такеда България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 2 958 27 36 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Lietuva 
Takeda, UAB 
Tel: +370 521 09 070 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tel/Tél: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com  
Česká republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Czech Republic s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 234 722 722 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Magyarország 
Takeda Pharma Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 270 7030 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Danmark 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Tlf: +45 46 77 10 10 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Malta 
Takeda HELLAS S.A. 
Tel: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Takeda GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)800 825 3325 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com  
Eesti 
Takeda Pharma AS 
Tel: +372 6177 669 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ελλάδα 
Takeda ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com  
España 
Laboratorios Menarini, S.A 
Tel: +34 934 628 800 
info@menarini.es 
France 
Takeda France SAS 
Tel: + 33 1 40 67 33 00 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Nederland 
Takeda Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 203 5492 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Norge 
Takeda AS 
Tlf: +47 800 800 30 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Österreich 
Takeda Pharma Ges. m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0) 800-20 80 50 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com  
Polska 
Takeda Pharma Sp. z o.o. 
tel: +48223062447 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com  
Portugal 
Tecnimede - Sociedade Técnico-Medicinal, S.A 
Tel: +351 21 041 41 00  
dmed.fv@tecnimede.pt  
Hrvatska 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Croatia d.o.o 
Tel: +385 1 377 88 96 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
România 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals SRL 
Tel: +40 21 335 03 91 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ireland 
Takeda Products Ireland Ltd 
Tel: 1800 937 970 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Italia 
Takeda Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 06 502601 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Κύπρος 
Takeda ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Latvija 
Takeda Latvia SIA 
Tel: +371 67840082 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Slovenija 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals farmacevtska družba d.o.o.  
Tel: +386 (0) 59 082 480 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Slovenská republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 (2) 20 602 600 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Takeda Oy 
Puh/Tel: 0800 774 051 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Sverige 
Takeda Pharma AB 
Tel: 020 795 079 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Takeda UK Ltd 
Tel: +44 (0) 2830 640 902 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
51 
 
 
 
