Summary of the risk management plan for VIPDOMET 
(alogliptin/metformin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for VIPDOMET. The RMP details important risks 
of  VIPDOMET,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
VIPDOMET's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
VIPDOMET's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how VIPDOMET should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for VIPDOMET should be read in the context of all this information including 
the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of VIPDOMET's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
VIPDOMET is authorised in the treatment of adult patients aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus: 
•  As an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult patients, inadequately 
controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin alone, or those already being treated 
with the combination of alogliptin and metformin. 
• 
• 
In  combination  with  pioglitazone  (i.e.  triple  combination  therapy)  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and 
exercise in adult patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin 
and pioglitazone. 
In combination with insulin (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to diet and exercise 
to improve glycaemic control in patients when insulin at a stable dose and metformin alone do 
not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
It contains alogliptin and metformin as the active substances and it is given orally as 12.5 mg/850 mg, 
12.5 mg/1000 mg film-coated tablets. 
Further information about the evaluation VIPDOMET’s benefits can be found VIPDOMET’s EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/vipdomet 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of VIPDOMET, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about VIPDOMET's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of VIPDOMET is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  VIPDOMET  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of 
a link with the use of VIPDOMET's. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of 
this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Lactic acidosis 
Important potential risks 
Pancreatic cancer 
Arthralgia 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant women and breast feeding 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Lactic acidosis 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk 
to the medicine 
Harmonised Glucophage SmPC. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk groups have been identified, including those with acute alcohol 
intoxication,  hepatic  insufficiency,  severe  renal  impairment,  sepsis, 
dehydration, and the use of iodinated contrast agents. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC Section 4.8 and 4.9 and PL Section 4 (undesirable effects) 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.3 & PL Section 2 and 3 indicated populations in 
which  alogliptin+metformin  is  contraindicated  or  monitoring  is 
required. 
SmPC  4.4,  4.5  and  PL  Section  2  include  special  warnings  and 
precautions for patients at risk for lactic acidosis. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
None 
Important potential risk: Pancreatic cancer 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  Alogliptin  clinical  trials  OPI-004,305,  and  402  and  post-marketing 
 
Important potential risk: Pancreatic cancer 
to the medicine 
database, published literature. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
There  are  known  risk  factors  associated  with  development  of 
pancreatic cancer; among these are gender (men  are 30% more at 
risk), age (70% are age 65 years or older), race (African-Americans 
are at higher risk), smoking (responsible for 20%-30% of pancreatic 
cancers), obesity, diabetes, chronic pancreatitis, liver cirrhosis, family 
history, occupational exposure to pesticides, dyes, chemicals used in 
metal  refining,  and  genetic  syndromes,  such  as  mutations  in  genes 
such as BRCA2, p16/CDKN2A (familial melanoma), and PRSSi (familial 
pancreatitis),  Lynch  syndrome 
(also  known  as  hereditary 
nonpolyposis colorectal cancer), Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, von Hippel-
Lindau  syndrome,  neurofibromatosis  type  1  (gene  mutation),  and 
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
None 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
None 
Important potential risk: Arthralgia 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk 
to the medicine 
Alogliptin  clinical  studies,  post-marketing  safety  surveillance 
database, non-clinical data, and scientific literature. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Elderly patients and women. The major cause of musculoskeletal pain 
is  osteoarthritis.  Additional  causes  for  joint  pain  include  injuries, 
mechanical problems, obesity and overweight, types of arthritis and 
other health problems. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
None 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
None 
Missing information: Use in pregnant women and breast feeding 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2 recommends to avoid the use of 
alogliptin+metformin during pregnancy and considerations related to 
lactation. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
 
 
 
Missing information: Use in pregnant women and breast feeding 
None 
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
VIPDOMET. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for VIPDOMET. 
 
