Summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  for  VIPIDIA 
(alogliptin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for VIPIDIA. The RMP details important risks 
of  VIPIDIA,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
VIPIDIA's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
VIPIDIA's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  gives  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how VIPIDIA should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for VIPIDIA should be read in the context of all this information including 
the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of VIPIDIA's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
VIPIDIA  is  authorised  for  adults  aged  18  years  and  older  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  to  improve 
glycemic  control  in  combination  with  other  glucose–lowering  medicinal  products  including  insulin, 
when these, together with diet and exercise, do not provide adequate glycaemic control. (see SmPC 
for the full indication). It contains alogliptin as the active substance and it is given orally as 6.25 mg, 
12.5 mg or 25 mg film-coated tablets. 
Further information about the evaluation VIPIDIA’s benefits can be found in VIPIDIA’s EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/vipidia 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of VIPIDIA, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about VIPIDIA's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of VIPIDIA is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of VIPIDIA are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken.  Important  risks  can  be 
 
 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of VIPIDIA's. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of 
this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet 
and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Pancreatic cancer 
Arthralgia 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant women and breast feeding 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: Pancreatic cancer 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Alogliptin  clinical  trials  OPI-004,305,  and  402  and  post-marketing 
database, published literature. 
Risk factors and risk groups  There  are  known  risk  factors  associated  with  development  of 
pancreatic cancer; among these are gender (men are 30% more at 
risk), age (70% are age 65 years or older), race (African-Americans 
are at higher risk), smoking (responsible for 20%-30% of pancreatic 
cancers),  obesity,  diabetes,  chronic  pancreatitis,  liver  cirrhosis, 
family history, occupational exposure to pesticides, dyes, chemicals 
used in metal refining, and genetic syndromes, such as mutations in 
genes such as BRCA2, p16/CDKN2A (familial melanoma), and PRSSi 
(familial  pancreatitis),  Lynch  syndrome  (also  known  as  hereditary 
nonpolyposis  colorectal  cancer),  Peutz-Jeghers  syndrome,  von 
Hippel-Lindau syndrome, neurofibromatosis type 1 (gene mutation), 
and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
None 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
None 
Important potential risk: Arthralgia 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Alogliptin  clinical  studies,  post-marketing  safety  surveillance 
database, non-clinical data, and scientific literature. 
Risk factors and risk groups  Elderly  patients  and  women.  The  major  cause  of  musculoskeletal 
pain is osteoarthritis. Additional causes for joint pain include injuries, 
mechanical problems, obesity and overweight, types of arthritis and 
other health problems. 
 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
None 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
None 
Missing information: Use in pregnant women and breast feeding 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2 recommends to avoid the use of 
alogliptin during pregnancy and considerations related to lactation. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
VIPIDIA. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for VIPIDIA. 
 
 
