EMA/474704/2013  
EMEA/H/C/002182 
EPAR summary for the public 
Vipidia 
alogliptin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Vipidia. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Vipidia. 
For practical information about using Vipidia, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Vipidia and what is it used for? 
Vipidia is a diabetes medicine that contains the active substance alogliptin. It is used, together with 
diet and exercise, as an addition to other diabetes medicines in adults with type 2 diabetes, to control 
their blood glucose (sugar) level.  
How is Vipidia used? 
Vipidia is available as tablets (6.25, 12.5 and 25 mg) and can only be obtained with a prescription. The 
recommended dose is 25 mg taken by mouth once daily, in combination with other diabetes medicines 
as prescribed by a doctor. When Vipidia is added to a sulphonylurea (a type of diabetes medicine) or 
insulin, the doctor may need to lower the dose of these medicines to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia 
(low blood sugar level). In patients with reduced kidney function, the daily dose of Vipidia should be 
reduced. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Vipidia work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively.  
The active substance in Vipidia, alogliptin, is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP 4) inhibitor. It works by 
blocking the breakdown of ‘incretin’ hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal 
and stimulate the pancreas to produce insulin. By blocking the breakdown of incretin hormones in the 
blood, alogliptin prolongs their action in stimulating the pancreas to produce more insulin when blood 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
glucose levels are high. Alogliptin does not work when the blood glucose is low. Alogliptin also reduces 
the amount of glucose made by the liver, by increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the 
hormone glucagon. Together, these processes reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type-2 
diabetes. 
What benefits of Vipidia have been shown in studies? 
Vipidia has been studied in seven main studies involving 5,675 adults with type 2 diabetes. Five of the 
studies compared Vipidia with placebo (a dummy treatment), when used alone or added to other 
diabetes medicines, in patients in whom previous treatment had failed. In two other studies, Vipidia 
was compared with the diabetes medicines glipizide and pioglitazone in patients who were already 
taking metformin. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in the level of glycosylated 
haemoglobin (HbA1c), which is the percentage of haemoglobin in the blood that has glucose attached. 
HbA1c levels give an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. HbA1c levels were 
measured after 26 weeks when Vipidia was used alone or added to other diabetes medicines, and after 
52 weeks when Vipidia was compared with glipizide or pioglitazone. 
In all studies Vipidia led to a decrease in HbA1c indicating that blood glucose levels had been reduced. 
When used alone or in combination with other anti-diabetes medicines, Vipidia reduced HbA1c levels 
by 0.48–0.61% more than placebo. Vipidia was as least as affective as pioglitazone in lowering HbA1c 
when added to metformin, but the study comparing Vipidia with glipizide was not conclusive. 
What are the risks associated with Vipidia? 
The most common side effect with Vipidia (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) is pruritus (itching). 
For the full list of all side effects reported with Vipidia, see the package leaflet. 
Vipidia must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to the active substances or any 
of the ingredients or who have had serious allergic reactions to any DPP 4 inhibitor. 
Why is Vipidia approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that Vipidia’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP 
considered that the effects of Vipidia on HbA1c levels were similar to those of other DPP-4 inhibitors 
and were modest but clinically relevant. Regarding its safety, Vipidia’s safety profile was consistent 
with that seen with other DPP-4 inhibitors.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vipidia? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Vipidia is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Vipidia, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Vipidia 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Vipidia on 19 September 2013.  
Vipidia  
EMA/474704/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Vipidia can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Vipidia, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2013. 
Vipidia  
EMA/474704/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
