SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Viramune. This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  March  2004.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B 
1. 
Introduction 
Current options for the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infected patients consist of 
nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase (RT) inhibitors and protease inhibitors. The first category of 
agents acts at an early stage in the HIV life cycle by blocking the activity of reverse transcriptase. This 
enzyme  is essential for the conversion of viral RNA to proviral DNA, thus allowing integration into 
host cell DNA and subsequent viral replication. On the contrary, the second group of agents acts at a 
later stage in the viral replication. HIV protease is an enzyme essential for the production of mature, 
progeny virions.  
A  new  class  of  antiviral  agents  acting  on  the  reverse  transcriptase  enzyme  through  a  different 
mechanism  compared  to  nucleoside  analogues  RT  inhibitors  and  classified  as  non-nucleoside  RT 
inhibitors (NNRTIs) has been developed. NNRTIs bind directly to the HIV RT enzyme and blocks the 
RNA  dependent  and  DNA-dependent  DNA  polymerase  activities  by  causing  a  disruption  of  the 
enzyme catalytic site.  
Nevirapine,  which  is  the  first  representative  of  this  new  class  to  be  submitted  for  registration,  is  the 
active  substance  of  Viramune.  This  medicinal  product  containing  200  mg  of  nevirapine  has  been 
developed as an oral therapy (tablet) for the treatment of HIV-1 infection.  
During  the  evaluation  of  the  tablets,  the  need  for  the  development  of  a  liquid  formulation  was 
identified for the treatment of children and adults who have to swallow tablets and an oral suspension 
containing 50-mg/5 ml of nevirapine has been developed and later submitted. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
As the quality variations submitted since the marketing authorisation was granted had no major impact 
on the safety/efficacy of Viramune, the quality scientific discussion below reflects the data submitted 
in  support  of  the  initial  marketing  authorisation.  See  "Steps  taken  after  granting  the  Marketing 
Authorisation" for information on quality variations. 
Composition 
Viramune  is  presented  as  a  conventional  uncoated  tablet  containing  200  mg  nevirapine  anhydrous, 
suitable  for  marketing.  Viramune  is  supplied  in  opaque  polyvinyl  chloride  (PVC)/aluminium  foil 
laminate push-through blister units containing 10 tablets per blister card, and 6 blister cards per carton 
(60 tablets per carton). 
Clinical  trials  formulations  manufactured  at  various  strengths  (2.5  to  200  mg)  were  essentially 
identical to that of the commercial market. The only difference consisted of the grades of polyvidone 
used as a binder. However all formulations showed acceptable and comparable dissolution profiles. 
A  preserved  aqueous-based  oral  suspension  containing  nevirapine  hemihydrate  with  the  quantity 
adjusted  to  provide  the  equivalent  of  50-mg/5  ml  anhydrous  nevirapine  has  been  later  developed. 
Viramune oral suspension is supplied in a white high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle capped with 
a  two  piece  child-resistant  closure  with  a  low  density  polyethylene  (LDPE)  foam  liner.  Each  bottle 
contains  240  ml  of  oral  suspension.  A  clear  polypropylene  5  ml  (0.2  ml  graduations)  dispensing 
syringe is provided to facilitate accurate administration of the dose. Acceptable data demonstrating the 
precision  and  accuracy  of  the  dosing  syringe  were  provided.  During  the  clinical  development  of  the 
suspension  and  paediatric  indication,  several  strengths  of  tablets  and  oral  suspension  (25  and  50 
mg/5ml) were used. The clinical trial formulation of the oral suspension was shown to be bioequivalent 
to  the  formulation  intended  for  marketing.  The  HDPE  bottle  material  is  inert  and  was  shown  to  be 
compatible with the active substance and other ingredients of the formulation. 
1/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical development 
Nevirapine is selected from the series of dipyridodiazepones and is supplied as the free base form. The 
active  substance  can  exist  in  two  pseudopolymorphic  forms,  anhydrous  and  hemihydrate.  The 
anhydrous form was selected for the development of the oral tablet due to its higher intrinsic aqueous 
solubility  (90  µg/ml  at  25°C).  Nevirapine  is  a  weak  base  showing  increased  solubility  at  acidic  pH 
values. The development of an immediate release uncoated tablet was adequate to promote a maximal 
dissolution  rate  of  the  active  substance.  The  anhydrous form  was shown to be non-hygroscopic,  and 
conversion to the hemihydrate form did not occur even in samples exposed to 92 % relative humidity 
for  24  months  at  30°C.  Similarly,  it  was  demonstrated  that  although  a  wet  granulation  was  used, 
conversion did not occur during wet granulation or any step of the manufacturing process.The standard 
wet  granulation  process  was  selected  since  it  provided  good  flow  characteristics  and  ease  of 
manufacture.  The  tablet  dissolution  was  found  to  be  correlated  with  the  particle  size  of  the  active 
substance. Milling of nevirapine was therefore introduced to control active substance particle size and 
to  maximise  dosage  form  dissolution  behaviour.  The  excipients  chosen  for  the  formulation  are 
commonly used in the manufacture of solid dosage forms. 
The anhydrous form was selected for the development of the oral suspension. Adequate evidence was 
provided  showing  that  no  polymorphic  changes  occurred  under  normal  storage  or  physical  stressed 
storage conditions. The suspension is preserved with a combination of methyl and propylparabens and 
the levels of these preservatives have been correlated with antimicrobial effectiveness tested according 
to European Pharmacopeial requirements. 
Method of preparation 
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  tablets  consists  of  a  wet  granulation  in  which  the  milled  active 
substance is dry mixed with lactose and polyvidone. The formed dried granules are milled, mixed with 
other excipients and compressed into tablets. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  under  control  and  ensures  both  batch-to-batch  reproducibility  and 
compliance with standard specifications. 
Validation data presented on three batches manufactured at the US production site were sufficient to 
demonstrate the consistency of the process and the quality of the product. Manufacture of the tablets at 
the  German  production  site  was  considered  acceptable,  provided  that  the  company,  as  post-approval 
commitment, provides appropriate validation data on three batches. Since the planned production scale 
at the German site is larger, some adjustments were made to accommodate for the differences in batch 
sizes and capacity of the equipment. 
The  method  of  preparation  of  the  oral  suspension  is  standard  for  this  form  and  has  been  adequately 
described.  Validation  data  presented  on  three  production  batches  manufactured  using  three  different 
lots  of  nevirapine  anhydrous  were  adequate  to  demonstrate  that  the  process  is  under  control  and 
ensures  both  batch-to-batch  reproducibility  and  compliance  with  standard  specifications.  Tests  at 
release are standard and ensure reproducible clinical performance of the product.  
Control of starting materials 
Nevirapine anhydrous is a white to off-white crystalline powder. The quality of the active substance is 
guaranteed by the established specifications and the proposed analytical methods for assay and purity 
are adequately validated. The proposed limits are well justified. 
Synthesis of nevirapine consists of a multi-step process starting from a commercially available starting 
material. The analytical methods used to control starting materials as well as intermediates of synthesis 
are acceptable. Milling has been added as an additional step to optimise dissolution. 
The  related  impurities  arising  from  the  synthesis  were  characterised  and  the  company  committed  to 
reviewing  the  data  concerning  the  proposed  limits  for  each  individual  impurity  and  total  impurities, 
based on batch analysis results. 
Nevirapine  hemihydrate  is  a  white  to  off-white  crystalline  powder  which  has  been  adequately 
characterised.  Its  synthesis  has  been  developed  in  parallel  to  the  one  for  the  anhydrous  form.  The 
synthesis of these two crystal forms is similar until the final drying step. The analytical methods used 
to control starting materials as well as intermediates of synthesis are acceptable. The active substance, 
before being used for the manufacture of the finished product is milled in order to obtain an acceptable 
2/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
particle  size  distribution.  The  synthetic  pathway  is  adequately  presented  and  the  impurity  profile  is 
well  characterised  and  in  line  with  current  ICH  guideline.  The  specifications  for  impurities  are 
identical to those of nevirapine anhydrous. The identified impurities arising from synthesis have been 
toxicologically qualified. Batch analysis  data confirm that nevirapine  hemihydrate complies with the 
specifications. 
All  other  ingredients  entering  in  the  preparation  of  the  tablets  or  the  oral  suspension  are  commonly 
used excipients for these formulations and meet pharmacopoeial requirements. 
Control tests on the finished product 
Tablets are tested according to standard methods. The chromatographic impurity profile appears to be 
simple since no degradation products have been detected upon storage. A standard international (ICH) 
recommendation is therefore used for the specifications. Considering that none of the impurities arising 
from  the  synthesis  are  degradation  products,  it  is  considered  acceptable  in  the  light  of  ICH 
recommendation not to have them as part of the specifications of the finished product, since they are 
controlled  in  the  starting  material.  Certificate  of  analysis  from  eight  production  batches  showed  that 
results are within specifications. 
Stability 
Drug substance 
Several  pilot  and  production  size  batches  of  nevirapine  were  subject  to  stability  studies.  Results 
showed  that  nevirapine  is  highly  stable  even  under  stressed  conditions  over  the  period  of  study 
(24 months).  No  degradants  were  detected  and  all  the  results  remained  within  the  specifications. 
Additional long-term stability data will however be presented when available. 
Stability data on five production batches was confirmed that nevirapine hemihydrate was stable and no 
degradants were detected in any of the batches both under normal and stress conditions. Based on the 
results provided, a re-test period for the active substance of 2 years has been defined. In addition, long-
term stability data will be submitted on an ongoing basis. 
Finished product 
Stability  studies  have  been  carried  out  at  room  temperature  and  under  accelerated  conditions  for 
product stored in HDPE bottle and blister packaging. Based on the results available from nine primary 
batches made at production scale at the US production site, only a shelf-life of 24 months is supported. 
No particular storage conditions to ensure the quality of the product over the shelf-life are requested. 
Currently no stability data from the tablets manufactured at the German production site and stored in 
the  proposed  blister  pack  are  available.  However  the  German  site  has  been  accepted  as  the  only 
production  site  for  Europe,  based  on  stability  data  obtained  from  tablets  produced  at  the  US 
manufacturing  site,  upon  commitment  from  the  company  to  present  every  three  months  results  from 
ongoing  stability  studies  and  to  immediately  report  any  unexpected  event  occurring  in  the 
manufacture. 
Three primary batches were stored under normal and accelerated storage conditions. The batches were 
initially capped with HDPE/polypropylene closure and pulpboard liner. Deterioration of the pulpboard 
liner  was  observed  at  three  months  and  another  study  was  initiated  which  included  a  portion  of  the 
batches recapped with the liner intended for marketing. Stability data up to 18 months for the newly 
recapped  oral  suspension  and  24  months  with  the  old  pulpboard  liner  confirmed  the  physical  and 
chemical  stability  of  the  oral  suspension  and  the  antimicrobial  efficacy  of  the  preservative.  These 
results support a shelf life of 24 months. Long-term stability data will be submitted on ongoing basis.  
An  in-use  stability  study  designed  to  mimic  the  delivery  of  2  ml  dose,  which  represents  one  of  the 
lowest  projected  doses,  twice  a  day,  using  the  delivery  device  intended  for  marketing  has  been 
performed.  An  additional  study  is  presented  on  the  stability  of  the  product  exposed  to  freeze-thaw 
conditions. On the basis of results from both studies, the claimed in-use shelf life of 60 days with no 
special storage precautions is supported. 
Bioequivalence 
Two main bioequivalence studies were performed with the tablet formulation. The first study involved 
three  tablet formulations, one clinical scale and  one production scale, both prepared from nevirapine 
3/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
milled during the tablet manufacture, and a clinical tablet prepared from unmilled nevirapine, relative 
to  an  oral  solution.  A  4-way  crossover  comparison  study  showed  bioequivalence  between  the 
formulations tested.  
The  second  3-way  crossover  study  compared  the  bioavailability  from  three  production/commercial 
scale  batches  with  varying  dissolution  profiles.  All  three  batches  were  bioequivalent  with  respect  to 
systemic exposure (AUC). The significantly different values for Cmax and tmax were considered not to 
be clinically relevant. 
Further  study  bridging  the  formulations  tested  in  the  first  bioequivalence  trials  and  the  final 
commercial  one  was  not  considered  necessary  since  no  major  changes  have  been  made  to  the 
formulation and/or manufacturing process and the dissolution profiles were found to be comparable.  
Three single dose crossover studies were performed in healthy adults with the oral suspension.  
The objectives of these studies were: 
• 
to  assess  the  relative  bioavailability  of  nevirapine  tablets  and  suspension  compared  to  an  oral 
reference solution (trial 1100.896) 
• 
• 
to  determine  the  bioavailability  of  nevirapine  suspension  (using  an  oral  syringe)  relative  to 
nevirapine marketed tablets (trial 1100.1231) 
to  assess  the  bioequivalence  of  nevirapine  suspension  (using  a  dosing  cup)  by  comparing  the 
intended to market batch of oral suspension to a clinical batch of suspension (trial 1100.1213). 
In this study the suspensions were administered using a dosing cup without rising.  
In studies 1100.1231 and 1100.896 in which the suspension was administered directly using a syringe, 
it  was  demonstrated  that  the  suspension  and  tablet  formulations  were  comparably  bioavailable  with 
respect to extent of absorption. In study 1100.1213 the suspension was administered in a dosing cup 
without  rinsing.  The  suspension  intended  for  marketing  was  bioequivalent  to  the  suspension  used 
during  clinical  trials  but  was  not  bioequivalent  to  the  marketed  tablets.  This  could  be  attributed  to 
incomplete dosing of the two suspensions since there was about 13 % of the dose remaining in the cup. 
The  assessment  of  nevirapine  bioavailability  was  shown  not  to  be  influenced  by  autoinduction 
provided that a crossover design is utilised with an adequate washout period between doses. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Nevirapine  is  a  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  (NNRTI),  which  interrupts  the  reverse 
transcription  of  viral  RNA  to  DNA,  a  crucial  step  for  HIV  replication,  by  a  mechanism  of  action 
different from nucleoside analogues. Nevirapine binds directly to the HIV-1 RT enzyme and blocks the 
RNA-dependent  and  DNA-dependent  DNA  polymerase  activities  by  causing  a  disruption  of  the 
enzyme catalytic site. The covalent binding sites of nevirapine are tyrosine residues 181 and 188. Due 
to the absence of tyrosine residues in these positions of  HIV-2, nevirapine is inactive against HIV-2 
RT. The activity of nevirapine does not compete with template or nucleoside triphosphates. Eukaryotic 
DNA polymerase (such as human DNA polymerases α, β, γ, δ) are not inhibited by nevirapine. 
Studies on pharmacodynamic effects with respect to the proposed indication showed that nevirapine is 
a  potent  and  specific  inhibitor  of  HIV-1  RT.  A  concentration  of  40  nM  completely  inhibited  the 
enzyme.  Nevirapine  was  found  to  be  a  potent  inhibitor  of  HIV-1  replication  in  human  T-cells  line, 
which suggested that it specifically inhibited an early stage of HIV-1 replication. The antiviral activity 
investigated in vitro revealed that nevirapine is active against a broad range of HIV-1 strains, including 
clinical strains and zidovudine-resistant mutants. The dose required to inhibit the viral replication by 
50 % (IC50) ranged from 10nM-100nM. 
In vitro studies of nevirapine in combination with other nucleoside analogues revealed that nevirapine 
and zidovudine (ZDV) at various concentration ratios showed marked synergism in inhibition of HIV-
1  replication.  Furthermore,  the  combination  nevirapine/ZDV  plus  one  other  antiretroviral  such  as 
didanosine  (ddI),  lamivudine  or  stavudine  was  investigated.  In  all  combination  regimens,  nevirapine 
had either a synergistic or additive effect. 
4/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  pharmacology  safety  programme  addressed  among  others,  effects  on  central  and  autonomous 
nervous system, cardiovascular, renal, respiratory systems and did not reveal any severe side effects at 
relevant dose levels and/or concentrations. 
The cellular toxicity of nevirapine was tested. The results indicated that nevirapine is active in a dose 
range significantly below the levels of cell toxicity. No cellular toxicity was observed with any of the 
tested drug combinations as mentioned above. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  nevirapine  was determined in mouse, rat, dog,  cynomolgus monkeys 
and chimpanzees using well characterised radiolabelled nevirapine and validated HPLC-UV methods. 
Absorption and distribution 
Orally administered nevirapine was well absorbed. In the different animal species studied the absolute 
bioavailability  ranged  from  30  %  (in  dog)  to  70  %  (in  cynomolgus  monkeys).  The  tmax  varied 
considerably  in  cynomolgus  monkey  (tmax  1-4  hours)  and  in  chimpanzees  (tmax  6-30  hours)  showing 
that the absorption was very slow. In humans, nevirapine was shown to be readily absorbed after oral 
administration with a tmax around 4 hours. 
In  all  animal  species  studied,  plasma  protein  binding, at non saturating  concentrations was moderate 
ranging from 44 % to 62 %. 
Tissue distribution studies in rats and cynomolgus monkeys showed that nevirapine widely distributed 
in  the  body  penetrated  the  central  nervous  system  and  lymphoid  system.  In  the  rat,  8  hours  after  a 
single oral dose of radiolabelled nevirapine, the levels of radioactivity in the brain were about  
15-30 % of those found in the plasma. 
Tissue  distribution  after  repeated  dosing  was  only  investigated  in  pregnant  animals.  Results  showed 
that nevirapine crosses the placental barrier and were found in the breast milk.  
Biotransformation 
In  all  animal  species  studied  including  humans,  nevirapine  was  extensively  metabolised.  Nevirapine 
was found to undergo major oxidative metabolism followed by glucuronidation. No major difference 
in the metabolic profile was noted between species. In rats and dogs, nevirapine was shown to induce 
its own hepatic metabolism. 
Potential  pharmacokinetic 
antiretroviral  nucleoside 
analogues/protease  inhibitors  were  not  studied  in  animals.  However,  interaction  studies  have  been 
carried out in humans. 
interactions  between  nevirapine 
and 
Excretion 
Nevirapine  was  rapidly  eliminated  and  appeared  to  be  highly  species  dependent  with  a  rapid 
elimination  in  rat,  mouse,  dog  and  cynomolgus  monkey  (t1/2  0.4-1.5  hours)  whereas  elimination  was 
slower in chimpanzees (t1/2 16 hours). Elimination was also found to be slow in humans (t1/2 45 hours 
after single dose of nevirapine). In all species, except the dog, the major route of elimination was renal 
(65 to 78 % of radioactivity was recovered in urine). In the dog, this pattern was reversed with 70 % of 
the  radiolabelled  eliminated  in  faeces.  Nevirapine  and  its  metabolites  were  shown  to  undergo 
enterohepatic cycle in rats. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  nevirapine  after  repeated  administration  was  established  based  on 
toxicokinetic  data  obtained  from  the  major  toxicology  studies.  In  rats,  nevirapine  exposure  was 
roughly proportional to the administered dose over a range of 5-150 mg/kg whereas in dog no linearity 
was  found.  In  both  species,  autoinduction  occurred  during  prolonged  administration  resulting  in  a 
decrease of systemic exposure to nevirapine. 
Toxicology 
Interspecies  dose  extrapolation  was  based  on  toxicokinetics  data  taking  into  account  the  decrease  in 
systemic  exposure  observed  in  both  rats  and  dogs  following  prolonged  treatment.  Based  on  the 
estimated  human  exposure  to  nevirapine  at  the  maximum  therapeutic  dose  level  (i.e.  400  mg/day), 
there seemed to be acceptable safety margins.  
5/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Single dose toxicity was studied in rodent, dogs and cynomolgus monkeys with doses ranging from 20 
to  3200  mg/kg.  These  studies  revealed  that  the  acute  toxicity  of  nevirapine  was  low  after  orally 
administration. At high doses, nevirapine had depressed the central nervous system functions of all the 
species studied, resulting in sedation and decreased motor activity. 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  was  studied  in  mice  (13  weeks),  rats  and  dogs  up  to  52  weeks.  In  all  three 
species,  the  main  target  organs  of  toxicity  were  liver  and  lymphoid  tissues.  Centrilobular 
hepatocellular hypertrophy found in the liver of all species and hypertrophy of thyroid follicular cells 
seen  in  rats  were  probably  due  to  enzyme  induction.  Lymphoid  organs  were  depleted  in  all  species 
tested.  A  direct  effect  of  nevirapine  on  the  immune  system  cannot  therefore  be  excluded.  Upon 
prolonged nevirapine administration, all three species developed skin lesions such as dermal swelling 
and/or  erythema.  Rats  also  developed  scabbing  and  ulcerative  skin  lesions.  Referring  to  the  dog,  an 
immunosuppressive action of nevirapine was suggested; especially since the skin changes noted were 
primarily  of  a  secondary  infectious  nature.  Although  this  immunosuppresion  was  suggested  to  be 
species-specific  since  the  immunotoxicity  screen  in  rodents  was  negative,  further  investigation  was 
considered necessary to address this point. The lung changes observed in several dogs tested at high 
doses were considered to be of a secondary infectious and not primary toxicological nature, possibly 
associated with immunological alterations suspected in this species. 
A  complete  programme  of  reproductive  toxicity  studies  was  conducted.  These  studies  did not  reveal 
any significant effects on fertility. Following administration of nevirapine to rats and rabbits during the 
organogenic period, embryotoxicity only occurred at doses causing maternal toxicity. 
In a standard battery of in vivo and in vitro tests, no genotoxic potential of nevirapine was found. 
Carcinogenicity studies performed in rodents were not available at the time of the recommendation for 
the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation,  which  was  considered  acceptable.  Results  from  the 
carcinogenicity studies submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation, 
showed that nevirapine induces hepatic tumours in rats and mice. In rats these findings are most likely 
related  to  nevirapine  being  a  strong  inducer  of  liver  enzymes,  and  not  due  to  a  genotoxic  mode  of 
action. The mechanism of tumours in mice is not yet clarified and therefore their relevance in humans 
remains to be determined.  
Local  tolerance  studies  did  not  reveal  any  irritating  or  sensitising  potential  of  nevirapine.  The 
haemolysis observed in intravascular testing was attributed to the vehicle used. 
Environmental  risk  assessment  did  not  foresee  any  toxicological  risk  for  the  environment  with 
nevirapine. 
With respect to the intermediates in the synthesis of nevirapine, no potential toxicity was found. 
All toxicity studies were conducted in compliance with current Good Laboratory Practices. 
Considering  that  nevirapine  hemihydrate  which  is  the  pseudopolymorphic  form  used  in  the  oral 
suspension  formulation  is  produced  by  the  same  synthetic  schemes  as  the anhydrous tablet  form but 
has  not  been  dried,  the  two  forms  could  therefore  be  considered  equivalent  with  respect  to  impurity 
levels. Additional preclinical toxicology testing was therefore not considered necessary. 
6/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Pharmacokinetics 
Adults 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  nevirapine  was  investigated  in  9  trials  involving  healthy  adult 
volunteers and HIV-infected patients of both sexes. 
Absorption and distribution 
Nevirapine was readily absorbed (> 90 %) after oral administration in healthy volunteers and in adults 
with HIV-1 infection. Following an oral single dose of 50 mg tablet formulation, the bioavailability in 
12  healthy  adults  was  93  ±  9  %  (mean  standard  deviation).  Peak  plasma  nevirapine  concentrations 
(Cmax)  of  2  ±  0.4  µg/ml  were  attained  by  4  hours  (tmax)  following  a  single  200  mg  dose.  Following 
multiple  doses,  nevirapine  steady-state  peak  concentrations  appeared  to  increase  linearly  in  the  dose 
range of 200 to 400 mg/day. Steady-state trough nevirapine concentrations evaluated in 242 volunteers 
were 4.5 ± 1.9 µg/ml, at 400 mg/day dosing. 
The influence of food on the pharmacokinetic parameters was investigated. When 200 mg nevirapine 
was administered to 24 healthy adults (12 female, 12 male), with either a high fat breakfast or antacid, 
the extent of nevirapine absorption (AUC) was comparable to that observed under fasting conditions, 
however in both cases, Cmax was reduced, tmax was delayed and the time to 50 % absorption was at least 
doubled when compared to fasted conditions. In a separate study involving 6 HIV-1-infected patients, 
nevirapine  steady-state  systemic  exposure  (AUC)  was  not  significantly  altered  by  ddI,  which  is 
formulated with an alkaline buffering agent. 
The in vitro plasma proteins binding of nevirapine were 60 % over a concentration range of 1-10 g/ml. 
Nevirapine  is  lipophilic  and  is  essentially  nonionised  at  physiologic  pH.  Following  intravenous 
administration to healthy adults, the volume of distribution (Vdss) was 1.21± 0.09 l/kg, suggesting a 
wide  tissue  distribution.  Nevirapine  readily  crosses  the  placenta  and  is  found  in  breast  milk. 
Nevirapine concentrations in human cerebrospinal fluid (n = 6) were 45 % ± 5 % of the concentrations 
in  plasma;  this  ratio  is  approximately  equal  to  the  free  fraction.  Considering  the  low  penetration  of 
other antiretrovirals in central nervous system (CNS), this property could represent an advantage but 
further data related to viral load reduction or resistance emergence in CNS were not available at the 
time  of  the  recommendation  for  the  granting  of  a  Marketing  Authorisation.  Results  from  two  sub-
studies    (1100.1204  and  1100.1224)  in  adults  submitted  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be 
fulfilled post-authorisation, showed that the ratio of median nevirapine concentrations in cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) and plasma was 0.49 and the CSF HIV viral load was suppressed below 50 copies/ml in all 
evaluable patients. A further sub-study, which was a post-hoc descriptive analysis from the ACTG 245 
study  in  paediatric  patients,  showed  that  the  evolution  of  resistance  mutations  was  similar  in  paired 
plasma  and  CSF  fluid  samples.  It  hence  appears  that  CNS  does  not  act  as  a  protected  site  against 
emergence  of  virus  resistance,  although  nevirapine  penetrates  the  CSF  to  a  greater  extent  than 
concomitant antiretroviral therapy. 
Biotransformation 
In  humans,  nevirapine  is  extensively  metabolised  via  the  oxidative  cytochrome  P450  to  several 
hydroxylated  metabolites,  which  subsequently  are  glucuronised.  In  vitro  studies  with  human  liver 
microsomes  suggested  that  the  metabolic  pathway  was  primarily  mediated  by  cytochrome  P450 
isozymes from the CYP3A family and to a lesser degree CYP2B6.  
Excretion 
In  a  mass  balance/excretion  study  carried  out  in  eight  healthy  male  volunteers,  at  steady-state 
approximately  91%  of  a  50  mg  radioactive  dose  of  nevirapine  was  recovered,  of  which  81  %  was 
excreted in urine and 10 % in faeces. Greater than 80% of the radioactivity in urine was made up of 
glucuronide conjugates of hydroxylated metabolites. Three major metabolites were found in urine:  
2-hydroxy-nevirapine  glucoronide,  3-hydroxy-nevirapine  glucoronide  and  12-hydroxy-nevirapine 
glucoronide.  Thus  cytochrome  P450  metabolism,  glucuronide  conjugation,  and  urinary  excretion  of 
7/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
glucuronidated  metabolites  represent  the  primary  route  of  nevirapine  biotransformation  and 
elimination in humans. Less than 3 % of nevirapine was excreted unchanged. 
Nevirapine  has  been  shown  to  be  an  inducer  of  hepatic  cytochrome  P450  metabolic  enzymes.  This 
autoinduction resulted in 1.5 to 2 fold increase of the apparent oral clearance of nevirapine as treatment 
continued from a single dose to two-to-four weeks of dosing with 200-400 mg/day. Subsequently, the 
terminal phase half-life of nevirapine in plasma decreased from 45 hours (single dose) to 25-30 hours 
following multiple dosing with 200-400 mg/day. 
Although the apparent volume of distribution (Vdss/F) of nevirapine was found to be slightly higher in 
females  subjects  (1.54  l/kg)  compared  to  males  (1.38  l/kg),  no  significant  gender  difference  in 
nevirapine clearance or plasma concentrations following single or multiple oral doses administrations 
were observed. 
No  study  was  specifically  designed  to  evaluate  the  difference  in  metabolism  between  race. 
Nonetheless,  based  on  pooled  data  from  several  clinical  trials,  an  evaluation  of  nevirapine  plasma 
concentrations  from  HIV-1-infected  patients  (Black,  Hispanic  and  Caucasian)  showed  no  marked 
difference in nevirapine steady-state trough concentrations. 
Children 
The pharmacokinetic profile of nevirapine was not established in children at the time of the granting of 
the  Marketing  Authorisation.  It  has  been  later  determined  in  a  single  dose  study  in  9  patients  aged 
between  9  months  and  14  years  administered  after  an  overnight  fast  (3  patients  per  dose  level 
equivalent  to  7.5  mg/m²,  30.0  mg/m²  and  120.0  mg/m²).  Nevirapine  was  readily  absorbed  following 
single oral administration of 7.5 mg/m², 30.0 mg/m² and 120.0 mg/m² with peak plasma concentrations 
of  0.3  ±  0.07  µg/ml,  0.7  ±  0.2  µg/ml  and  2.9  ±  0.2  µg/ml  respectively.  Peak  plasma  nevirapine 
concentrations of 2 ± 0.4 µg/ml were attained by 4 hours following a single 200 mg dose. AUC and 
Cmax increase proportionally with the dose. The same pattern has been observed in adults. Following 
absorption  nevirapine  mean  plasma  concentrations  declined  log  linearly  with  time.    Nevirapine  oral 
clearance was 0.91 ± 0.15 l/ m²/h and the terminal half-life was 30.6 ± 10.2 hours whereas in adults it 
corresponded  to  approximately  45  hours.  Nevirapine  clearance  and  half  time  correlated  with  age  in 
paediatric patients.  
A population pharmacokinetic analysis using data from a phase I/II clinical study including 37 children 
(study 1100.882) who received nevirapine alone or in combination with ZDV and/or ddI, suggest that 
body  surface  area  (BSA)  and  body  weight  (BW)  explained  the  interpatient  variation  in  nevirapine 
clearance.  Nevirapine  clearance  increased  non-linearly  with  BW.  In  contrast  to  the  BSA  model, 
average  nevirapine  clearance  adjusted  by  BW  was  closer  in  value  among  infants  (110  ±  23 
ml/kg/hour), younger children aged 1 to 4 years (120 ± 22 ml/kg/hour) and children aged 4 to 8 years 
(102 ± 17 ml/kg/hour) compared to that observed in children older than 8 years (50 ± 10 ml/kg/hour). 
In this group values were comparable to those reported in adults receiving 400 mg/day. The clearance 
values were lower in the youngest children (less than one year) and the range of values observed in this 
age  group  was  wide.  As  observed  in  adults,  nevirapine  apparent  clearance  in  children  was  higher 
following multiple dose treatment compared to a single dose administration suggesting that nevirapine 
is autoinducer of metabolism in children also. Further details are set out in section 5.2 of the SPC. 
The pharmacokinetic behaviour of nevirapine has not been assessed in elderly. 
The  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  of  nevirapine  was  not  established  in  patients  with  renal  impaired 
function  and  hepatic  impaired  function  at  the  time  of  granting  of  the  Marketing  authorisation.  Post-
authorisation,  study  1100.1259,  an  open  label,  single  dose  (200  mg)  study  involving  23  non-HIV 
infected  patients  with  stable  renal  dysfunction  and  10  non-HIV  infected  patients  with  hepatic 
dysfunction was conducted to study the pharmacokinetics of nevirapine in these patients. There were 8 
healthy controls.  
In  patients  with  renal  insufficiency  not  requiring  dialysis  non-significant  changes  of  nevirapine 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  found.  In  dialysed  patients,  a  43,5%  reduction  in  nevirapine  AUC 
over one week as well as a reduction of nevirapine half-life was found. Nevirapine metabolites were 
less affected by the dialysis resulting in accumulation.  
Class  A  of  Child-Pugh  classification  resulted  in  non-significant  changes  in  nevirapine  plasma  levels 
although there exists a trend towards a progressive hepatic deterioration. For patients with Child-Pugh 
8/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
class  B  classification,  a  significant  prolongation  of  the  nevirapine  half-life  was  found,  due  to  a 
significant  increase  in  volume  of  distribution  nevirapine,  suggesting  that  patients  with  worsening 
hepatic function may be at risk of accumulating nevirapine in the systemic circulation.   
Section 4.4. (Special Warnings and special precautions for use) of the SPC were amended to highlight 
that  caution  should  be  exercised  when  nevirapine  is  administered  to  patients  with  moderate  hepatic 
dysfunction and should not be administered in-patient with severe hepatic dysfunction (see also section 
5.2, Pharmacokinetic properties in adult patients). 
Interactions 
Considering that nevirapine is an inducer of CYP3A and potentially CYP2B6, with maximal induction 
occurring  within  2-4  weeks  of  initiating  multiple-dose  therapy  and  that  HIV  patients  are  frequently 
subject  to  multiple  therapies,  potential  pharmacokinetic  interactions  of  nevirapine  with  either 
substances  which  are  substrates  of  these  isozymes  or  other  medications  frequently  co-administered 
with antiretrovirals compounds were investigated. The main findings are summarised below: 
Medicinal products with the same indication: 
Nucleoside analogues 
On the basis of pooled data collected from two studies BI1009 and BI834, in which 33 HIV-1-infected 
patients  received nevirapine 400 mg/day either alone or in combination with 200-300 mg/day ddI or 
0.375 to 0.75 mg/day zalcitabine (ddC) on a background of ZDV therapy, nevirapine produced a non-
significant decline of 13 % in ZDV AUC and a non-significant increase of 5.8 % in ZDV Cmax. In a 
subset group of 6 patients who were administered nevirapine 400 mg/day and ddI on a background of 
ZDV  therapy,  nevirapine  produced  a  significant  decline  of  32%  in  ZDV  AUC  and  a  non-significant 
decline of 27 % in ZDV Cmax. Paired data suggested that ZDV had no effect on the pharmacokinetics 
of nevirapine. In one crossover study, nevirapine had no effect on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of 
either ddI or ddC. No dose adjustment of nevirapine and nucleoside analogues is therefore considered 
necessary when nevirapine used with ddI, ddC and/or ZDV.  
Interaction  studies  with  lamivudine  and  stavudine  were  ongoing  at  the  time  of  the  granting  of  the 
Marketing Authorisation. A population pharmacokinetic study was later submitted which showed that 
no dosage adjustment was necessary for lamivudine when concommitantly used with nevirapine.  
Results  from  another  study  in  HIV  infected  patients  (n  =  25)  who  were  administered  nevirapine, 
nelfinavir (750 mg t.i.d.) and stavudine (30-40 mg b.i.d.) for 36 days showed no statistically significant 
changes in the AUC or Cmax of stavudine. 
Protease inhibitors 
Since  protease  inhibitors  are  also  metabolised  by  CYP3A,  it  is  not  excluded  that  co-administration 
with nevirapine results in an alteration in the plasma concentration of either agent. 
Results from a clinical trial involving 25 HIV-infected patients administered nevirapine and indinavir  
(800  mg  t.i.d)  indicated  that  their  co-administration  leads  to  a  28  %  mean  decrease  (p  <  0.01)  in 
indinavir  AUC  and  no  significant  change  in  nevirapine  plasma  levels.  No  definitive  clinical 
conclusions have been reached regarding the potential impact of co-administration of nevirapine and 
indinavir and therefore further data from a prospective study to address this point are required. 
The  combination  of  nevirapine  and  ritonavir  (600  mg  b.i.d  using  a  gradual  dose  escalation  regimen) 
studied in 25 HIV infected patients,  did not  result in  any significant  changes in the pharmacokinetic 
profile of either product. 
Results from a clinical trial carried out in 31 HIV infected patients receiving nevirapine and saquinavir 
(hard gelatin capsules; 600 mg t.i.d.) indicated that their co-administration leads to a mean reduction of 
24  %  (p  =  0.041)  in  saquinavir  AUC  and  no  significant  change  in  nevirapine  plasma  levels.  The 
reduction in saquinavir levels due to this interaction may further decrease the marginal plasma levels 
of  saquinavir  which  are  achieved  with  the  hard  gelatin  capsule  formulation.    Another  study  (n=20) 
evaluated once daily dosing of saquinavir soft gel capsule (sgc) with a 100 mg dose of ritonavir. All 
patients concomitantly received nevirapine. The study showed that the combination of saquinavir sgc 
and  100  mg  of  ritonavir  had  no  measurable  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  nevirapine, 
9/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared to historical controls. The effect of nevirapine on the pharmacokinetics of saquinavir sgc in 
the presence of 100 mg of ritonavir, was modest and clinically insignificant 
The combination nevirapine and nelfinavir was under investigation at the time of the granting of the 
Marketing  Authorisation.  Final  results  from  a  36-day  study  in  HIV  infected  adult  patients  (n  =  25) 
administered  nevirapine,  nelfinavir  (750  mg  t.i.d.)  and  stavudine  (30  -  40  mg  b.i.d.)  showed  no 
statistically  significant  changes  in  nelfinavir  pharmacokinetic  parameters  after  the  addition  of 
nevirapine (AUC +4 %, Cmax +14 % and Cmin -2 %).  
There  was  no  apparent  change  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  lopinavir  when  used  concomitantly  with 
nevirapine in healthy volunteers. In single protease inhibitor experienced patients, nevirapine, used in 
combination with lopinavir / ritonavir 400/100 mg (3 capsules) twice daily and nucleoside analogues, 
provided  very  good  virological  response  rates.  Results  from  a  pharmacokinetic  study  in  paediatric 
patients  revealed  a  decrease  in  lopinavir  concentrations  during  nevirapine  co-administration.  The 
clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. However a dose increase of lopinavir / ritonavir to 
533/133  mg  (4  capsules  or  6.5 ml) may be considered when used in  combination with nevirapine  in 
patients  where  reduced  susceptibility  to  lopinavir  /  ritonavir  is  clinically  suspected    (by  treatment 
history or laboratory evidence). 
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
The  results  from  a  clinical  trial  (n=14)  showed  that  steady-state  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of 
nevirapine  were  not  affected  by  co-administration  of  efavirenz.  Drug  levels  of  efavirenz  were 
significantly reduced in the presence of nevirapine however. Co-administration of 400 mg nevirapine 
once daily with 600 mg efavirenz once daily resulted in a decrease in the AUC and Cmin of efavirenz 
by 22% and 36% respectively. When co-administered with nevirapine a dose increase of efavirenz to 
800 mg once daily may be warranted. 
Other medicinal products: 
Information on potential interaction between nevirapine and CYP450 isozymes inducers and inhibitors 
derived from retrospective analysis of data from different clinical trials and further studies to address 
the potential interactions observed have been requested. 
In  vitro,  ketoconazole  was  shown  to  significantly  inhibit  the  formation  of  nevirapine-hydroxylated 
metabolites. In one study,  administration  of nevirapine 200  mg b.i.d. with ketoconazole  400 mg q.d. 
resulted in a significant reduction (63 % median reduction in ketoconazole AUC and a 40 % median 
reduction in ketoconazole Cmax). In the same study, ketoconazole administration resulted in a 15-28 % 
increase  in  the  plasma  levels  of  nevirapine  compared  to  historical  controls.  Ketoconazole  and 
nevirapine should therefore not be given concomitantly. 
Pharmacokinetic  analysis  in  19  patients  showed  that  during  co-administration  of  fluconazole  and 
nevirapine, there was no clinically relevant effect of nevirapine on fluconazole. There was a decrease 
of  nearly  50%  in  nevirapine  clearance  at  steady  state  and  resultant  doubling  nevirapine  exposure. 
Because of greater exposure to nevirapine experienced by patients taking Viramune with fluconazole, 
caution should be exercised if the drugs are given concomitantly. 
Nevirapine  steady-state  trough  plasma  concentration  appeared  to  increase  by  7  %  with  concomitant 
administration of cimetidine, and by 10.8 % with macrolide antibiotics, known inhibitors of CYP3A. 
In vitro, rifabutin and rifampicin did not affect the formation of nevirapine-hydroxylated metabolites. 
Further data submitted did not support any specific dose adjustment on either nevirapine or rifampicin 
to increase nevirapine plasma levels to optimal therapeutic concentration. In addition it was shown that 
nevirapine  co-administrated  with  rifampicin  did  not  significantly  impact  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
the  active  metabolite  of  rifampicin  (25  desacetyl  rifampicin).  During  the  post-marketing  phase,  an 
other  study  showed  that  nevirapine  in  combination  with  rifabutin  resulted  in  a  significant  20  % 
increase  in  the  Cmaxss.  Non-significant  changes  were  found  on  25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin  (rifabutin 
active  metabolite)  AUC,  Cminss  or  Cmaxss.  This  study  suggested  that  there  is  no  clinically  relevant 
interaction between nevirapine and rifabutin.  
10/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the framework of the third annual reassessment for Viramune, the CPMP assessed some clinical and 
laboratory  data  based  on  publications  and  one  simulation  of  plasma  nevirapine  concentrations  on 
steady state in the presence of rifampicin 600 mg QD.  
In a study (Am J Respir Crit Care Med 154 (5), 1462-1467 (1996)), 298 patients with newly diagnosed 
pulmonary tuberculosis were randomised to receive rifabutin or rifampicin on continuation phase. The 
efficacy  and  the  safety  of  regimens  with  rifabutin  or  rifampicin  were  similar.  This  study  involved 
patients  with  newly  diagnosed  uncomplicated  pulmonary  tuberculosis,  which  is  not  the  frequent 
situation on HIV-1 infected patients. 
Two  studies  (J  Antimycobacterial  Chemother  42  (5),  621-628  (1998),  abstract  and  J Formosan  Med 
assoc  99  (5),  408-411  (2000),  abstract)  showed  that  in  analysed  clinical  isolates  the  resistance  to 
rifampicin was more frequent. Nevertheless the cross resistance was also frequent.  
A small clinical study (Recenti Prog Med 90 (5), 254-257 (1999), abstract) involved 25 patients with a 
heterogeneous  population  (HIV,  infection,  multidrug-resistant,  chronic  liver  disease).  Two  cases  of 
leukopenia were found. The results were satisfactory according to the authors.  
The revised CDC recommendations have been published in 1998 (MMWR 47 (RR-20), 1-58 (1998), 
abstract). On these principles was stated that the concomitant use of rifampicin and protease inhibitors 
or NNRTIs is contraindicated. The given alternative was rifabutin provided that an assessment of the 
patient’s  response  is  made  to  decide  the  appropriate  duration  of  the  therapy  (i.e.  6  months  versus  9 
months).  
Twenty-five  HIV-infected  patients  with  tuberculosis  treated  with  highly  active  antiretroviral  therapy 
(HAART)  were  enrolled  in  a  study  (Clin  Infect  Dis  30  (5),  779-783  (2000),  abstract).  The  use  of 
rifabutin  did  not  apparently  affect  the  results  of  the  HAART  on  HIV  infection  and  all  25  patients 
became culture-negative in 2 months.  
A modelling presented by the MAH showed that nevirapine plasma levels in the presence of rifampicin 
600mg QD were not stable and even with 600mg  of nevirapine daily the steady state concentrations 
were not enough to predict efficacy.  
The  concomitant  use  of  rifampicin  and  nevirapine  has  been  contra-indicated.  Physicians  needing  to 
treat patients co-infected with tuberculosis and using a nevirapine-containing regimen were advised to 
consider  the  use  of  rifabutin  instead.  Rifabutin  and  nevirapine  can  be  administered  concurrently 
without dose adjustments (see section 4.5. of the SPC).  
In  vitro  data  derived  from  studies  using  human  liver  microsomes  did  not  reveal  any  effect  on 
nevirapine hydroxylated metabolites formation when nevirapine was co-administered with dapsone, or 
trimetroprime/sulfamethoxazole. 
No data were available on the potential interaction between nevirapine and oral contraceptives at the 
time  of  the  marketing  authorisation.  Results  from  an  open  label  study  became  however  available 
during  the  post-marketing  phase.  Concomitant  administration  of  nevirapine  with  a  single  dose  of  an 
oral  contraceptive  containing  0.035  ethinyl  estradiol  (EE)  and  1  mg  norethindrone  (NET)  in  HIV 
infected women resulted in a significant 29% (median) reduction in the AUC of EE after 28 days of 
nevirapine  dosing,  in  a  significant  reduction  in  EE  mean  residence  time  and  T1/2.  There  was  also  a 
significant  18%  reduction  in  the  AUC  of  NET.  The  magnitude  of  the  pharmacokinetic  interaction 
seemed  to  be  clinically  relevant.  As  the  oral  contraceptives  should  not  be  used  as  the  primary 
contraceptive  in  HIV  infected  patients,  the  results  of  the  study  suggested  that  the  dose  of  oral 
contraceptive should be adjusted to allow adequate treatment for other indications like endometriosis 
or feminisation.  
Nevirapine  was  capable  in  vitro  of  inhibiting  10-hydroxylation  of  warfarin  (CYP3A4)  although 
nevirapine is primarily an inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 and 2B6 enzymes.  
Warfarin elimination is almost entirely by metabolism. As increased or decreased warfarin levels are a 
matter of concern due to adverse events or clinical efficacy respectively, a reference to an interaction 
possibility was considered to be useful in the SPC. 
Appropriate  recommendations  have  been  inserted  into  the  SPC  to  reflect  these  results  and  as 
previously  mentioned  further  investigations  are  necessary  to  clarify  some  of  the  effects  observed. 
Since  HIV  infected  patients  are  frequently  subject  to  multiple  therapies,  it  was  recommended  to 
address other possible significant interactions, such as antivirals, hepatotoxic medicinal products, and 
antibiotics. 
11/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further to the publication, during the post-marketing phase, of results from a clinical study in healthy 
volunteers  showing  a  significant  reduction  of  indinavir  plasma  concentrations  when  co-administered 
with  St  John’s  wort  (Hypericum  perforatum),  the  CPMP  considered  that  this  interaction  was  also 
applicable to other protease inhibitors and non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors considering 
the same metabolism pathway of these substances as indinavir. The interaction seems to involve two 
different mechanisms: an induction of the metabolism by the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 3A4 and the 
P-glycoprotein  transporter.  Since  it  may  result  in  the  loss  of  therapeutic  effect  and  development  of 
resistance,  it  was  agreed  to  contraindicate  the  use  of  St  John’s  wort  in  patients  taking  protease 
inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. 
Clinical experience 
Dose finding studies 
Adults  
In an attempt to achieve adequate levels of nevirapine in vivo, two dose ranging studies were carried 
out.  The  first  study  BI  744  (ACTG  164)  used  nevirapine  in  monotherapy  whereas  study  BI  834 
(ACTG  168)  used  nevirapine  in  combination  with  ZDV.  Both  studies  used  p24  antigen  assays  as 
measurement of antiretroviral activity of nevirapine.  
Results  from  the  open  label  study  BI  744  involving  52  patients  pretreated  by  nucleoside  analogues 
showed that although each dose tested of nevirapine suppressed viral replication in vitro (dose range 
12.5-600 mg/day), only 400 mg daily was able to maintain reduction during the 24 weeks after initial 
decline  of  p24  immune  complex  dissociation  (ICD).  However  all  the  doses  failed  to  maintain  a 
sustained  increase  in  CD4  cell  counts  after  initial  increase.  Based  on  the  observations  that  the 
introduction  of  400  mg  daily  after  exposure  to  lower  doses  of  nevirapine  reduced  rash  severity  and 
incidence, one of the major dose-related effects, it was suggested to adopt the lead-in dosage regimen: 
200 mg per day during two weeks prior to dose escalation. 
Study  BI  834  involved  83  patients  who  received  doses  of  nevirapine  ranging  from  12.5  to  600  mg 
daily (2 weeks lead-in period for high doses) together with 600 mg ZDV. Results did not demonstrate 
any  significant  difference  in  dose  response  between  200  and  400  mg/day  doses  and  600  mg  was 
precluded due to tolerance problem. Although these studies used p24 antigen assay which has not been 
demonstrated as an effective biological marker for HIV disease progression compared to plasma HIV-
RNA assay, and involved a limited number of patients, the recommended posology was 400 mg/day. 
This  recommended  dose  was  found  to  be  the  maximal  effective  dose  with  acceptable  toxicity.  The 
once daily versus twice daily regimen of nevirapine should be further studied. 
Children 
The objective of the dose selection of nevirapine in children was to find adequate oral doses that could 
give a overall nevirapine exposure, represented by the average steady-state concentration (Css) similar 
to  that  obtained  in  adults  given  200  mg  bid  (Css  =  5.5  ±  2.2  µg/ml).  On  the  basis  of  the  model 
indicating  that  body-weight  derived  doses  accurately  predict  the  plasma  levels  measured,  it  was 
suggested to use a body-weight dosing rather than body surface dosing area used in clinical trials.  
Although there are no dramatic physiologic changes at the age of 8 years old, the analysis of BSA and 
BW  adjusted  clearance  suggest  8  years  old  as  a  cut-off  for  administration  of  a  higher-level  dose  in 
younger  children.  Additional  clinical  studies  are  ongoing  utilising  the  proposed  dose  regimens  to 
support the dosage recommendations.  
The choice for 7 mg/kg bid dose would result in a slight increase above the levels reported in adults. 
This was considered acceptable taking into account that the higher dose will help to assure adequate 
plasma concentrations considering the higher  viral load in children than in adult patients. The safety 
data  with  this  dosage  is  very  limited  and  the  large  clinical  study  using  nevirapine  as  part  of 
combination therapy used lower dosage (120 mg/m2).  
Based  on  adult  experience,  a  comparable  lead-in  period  of  two  weeks  was  suggested  for  paediatric 
population.  A  4  mg/kg  dose  is  proposed  for  all  children  regardless  the  age.  Although  no  particular 
study  has  been  performed  to  find  the  optimal  lead-in  dose,  this  dose  was  considered  acceptable 
considering the enzyme induction to achieve initial antiretroviral activity. 
12/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The final recommended doses for the different ages are therefore the following: 
• 
• 
Patients from 2 months to 8 years, 4 mg/kg once daily for 2 weeks followed by 7 mg/kg bid 
Patients from 8 years to 16 years are 4 mg/kg once daily followed by 4-mg/kg bids. 
Comparative studies 
Adults 
In  order  to  assess  the  clinical  efficacy  of  nevirapine,  five  clinical  trials  were  performed  including  a 
supportive  clinical  study.  Most  of  the  efficacy  data  derived  from  clinical  trials  using  nevirapine  in 
combination therapy with nucleoside analogues in both naive and antiretroviral experienced patients. 
Since nevirapine monotherapy resulted in a short duration of the response and in a rapid emergence of 
resistance  mainly  due  to  a  single  mutation  at  codon  181,  nevirapine  should  not  be  used  in 
monotherapy.  Data  from  clinical  trials  using  nevirapine  monotherapy  were  therefore  of  no  clinical 
relevance. 
Study BI 1037, a double-blind, randomised, controlled trial involving 60 asymptomatic HIV patients 
with  CD4  cell  counts  between  200-500  mm3  aimed  to  investigate  the  efficacy  of  nevirapine  in 
combination  with  ZDV  versus  ZDV  alone.  Patients  pretreated  with  ZDV  for  a  duration  of  0.5-  24 
months (mean: 8 months) at a dose between 500 and 600 mg/day received over 28 weeks nevirapine at 
the  dose  of  200  mg/day  for  the  first  2  weeks  followed  by  400  mg/day.  The  efficacy  was  evaluated 
based on change in viral load as measured by HIV-RNA PCR technique and quantitative HIV-1 RNA 
PBMC  (peripheral  blood  mononuclear  cells)  microculture  and  change  in  CD4  cell  counts.  Results 
showed  an  initial  decrease  from  baseline  in  HIV  RNA  greater  than  1.5-log10  copies/ml  in  the 
nevirapine/ZDV arm compared to ZDV arm. However values of HIV-RNA after 12 weeks returned to 
baseline  and  no  significant  difference  between  both  groups  was  evident.  With  respect  to  CD4  cell 
counts,  the  median  change  from  baseline  over  time  revealed  a  significant  difference  (p  <  0.001)  in 
nevirapine/ZDV  group  (+21.93  %)  when  compared  to  ZDV  group  (-24.48  %)  over  the  28  weeks 
period. The study involved a small number of patients and did not indicate any clinical benefit with the 
addition of nevirapine in patients taking ZDV. 
Study BI 1011, an open comparative, randomised trial involving 49 HIV-infected patients with CD4 
cell counts less than 500 mm3 
aimed to investigate the efficacy of nevirapine in combination with ZDV 
versus ZDV alone. Patients pretreated for at least 6 months with ZDV at a dose between 500 and 600 
mg/day received over 28 weeks nevirapine at the dose of 200 mg/day for the first 2 weeks followed by 
400  mg/day.  As  for  the  above-mentioned  study,  results  did  not  show  significant  advantage  of  the 
combination  nevirapine/ZDV  over  ZDV  alone.  Only  the  reduction  in  p24  antigen  persisted  after  12 
weeks. However this parameter is less reliable as a marker of viral activity as compared to HIV-RNA. 
The same remarks as for the above-mentioned study can apply.  
Study BI 1031 (ACTG 241) was a double blind, randomised, controlled trial comparing the efficacy 
of nevirapine/ZDV/ddI therapy versus ZDV/ddI on a large group of HIV-1 infected patients (n = 398) 
with prior treatment with nucleoside analogues for at least 6 months and CD4 cell counts less than 350 
cells/  mm3.  Nevirapine  was  administered  at  the  dose  of  200  mg/day  during  the  first  two  weeks 
followed by 200 mg twice daily. ZDV was administered at the dose of 200 mg t.i.d and ddI 200 mg 
twice daily (or 125 mg if weight less than 60 kg). The efficacy was evaluated based on changes in viral 
load  and  CD4  cell  counts.  Clinical  endpoints  were  also  evaluated  in  terms  of  time  to  disease 
progression  and/or  death.  The  study  period  was  48  weeks  and  the  mean  duration  to  nevirapine 
exposure  was  8.8  months.  Results  at  week  40-48  demonstrated  a  significant  mean  change  from 
baseline in viral load as measured by HIV-RNA PCR in the nevirapine/ZDV/ddI group compared to 
ZDV/ddI group (reduction of 0.14 log10 versus increase of 0.11 log10 copies/ml respectively;  
p = 0.024). Similarly, changes in CD4 cell counts over that period of time were statistically significant 
in favour of the nevirapine treatment group with an increase of 5 cells/ mm3 compared to a decrease of 
15 cells/ mm3 respectively. Subgroup efficacy analysis was performed and revealed that patients with 
CD4 cell counts between 50-200 cells/ mm3 had a sustained response in both changes in viral load and 
CD4 cell counts while treated with triple therapy compared to double therapy where patients failed this 
objective. Subgroup efficacy analysis in a group of 123 patients pre-treated with ZDV alone showed 
that  the  addition  to  ZDV  of  the  combination  nevirapine/ddI  was  more  favourable  in  both  HIV-RNA 
13/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduction  and  CD4  cell  counts  increase  than  the  addition  of  ddI  alone.  Prevention  of  resistance  to 
nevirapine by the additional effect of ddI was suggested.  
Results  from  the  study  did  not  however  reveal  any  significant  difference  in  terms  of  disease 
progression and/or death between both treatment groups (16 % versus 14 % respectively). 
Overall, based on change in biological markers, this study demonstrated the advantage of triple therapy 
(nevirapine/ZDV/ddI) over double therapy (ZDV/ddI) in patients with advanced HIV-infection. 
BI  1046  (INCAS  trial),  a  randomised,  double  blind,  controlled  trial  was  designed  to  compare 
nevirapine/ZDV  versus  ZDV/ddI  versus  nevirapine/ZDV/ddI  in  151  naive  HIV  patients  with  CD4 
ranging  200-600  cells/  mm3.  Dosage  regimens  were  similar  to  the  ones  in  the  previously  described 
study BI 1031. With respect to the baseline characteristics of the population involved, the mean viral 
RNA was 4.41 log10 copies/ml. Primary endpoints were change in viral load as measured by HIV-RNA 
PCR (limit of detection equivalent to 20 copies/ml) and change in CD4 cell counts. Other endpoints 
included new AIDS defining events or selected disease recurrence and resistance emergence. The main 
exposure duration to nevirapine was 8.4 months. Results demonstrated a significant decrease in viral 
load  from  baseline  to  week  40  to  52  in  nevirapine/ZDV/ddI  group  over  the  ZDV/ddI  group  (1.91 
versus 1.35 log10 copies/ml respectively; p = 0.021). 
At 24 and 52 weeks, 73 % and 57 % of patients in the triple therapy group, respectively had viral load 
reductions which were < 400 copies/ml. RNA levels were below the limit of detection of the ultradirect 
assay (<20 copies/ml) for every timepoint between weeks 40 and 52 in 45 % (or 18/40) patients of the 
triple therapy arm compared to 6 % (or 2/36) in ZDV/ddI arm and 0 % (or 0/28) in nevirapine/ZDV 
arm (p < 0.0001). The difference in terms of CD4 cell counts increase was also statistically significant 
in favour of the triple therapy group (139 versus 87 cells/ mm3 in ZDV/ddI group; p = 0.029). With 
respect  to  secondary  endpoints,  results  showed  a  significant  clinical  benefit  in  terms  of  HIV 
progression  events  with  the  triple  therapy  (12  %  versus  23  %  in  ZDV/ddI  group  versus  26  %  in 
nevirapine/ZDV group). Phenotypic resistance to nevirapine was less frequently observed in the triple 
therapy group (21 % of the 24 samples submitted) as compared to the nevirapine/ZDV group (69 % of 
the 16 samples submitted). Overall the results were not favourable to the use of nevirapine in double 
therapy in naive patients. 
BI  1045  (ACTG  193a)  was  a  randomised,  double  blind,  comparative  trial  involving  1298 
antiretroviral naive or experienced HIV-1 infected patients with CD4 cell counts less than 50 mm3. The 
primary  clinical  endpoint  was  disease  progression  and  death.  Treatment  groups  were 
nevirapine/ZDV/ddI,  ZDV/ddI,  ZDV/ddC  and  ZDV/ddI  alternating  and  the  study  period  was  104 
weeks. Doses administered were 200 mg/day of nevirapine during 4 weeks followed by 200 mg twice 
daily, 200 mg t.i.d of ZDV, 200 mg b.i.d of ddI and 0.75 mg t.i.d of ddC. The median time to disease 
progression event or death was 81.7 weeks for nevirapine/ZDV/ddI group and 62.4 weeks for ZDV/ddI 
group  (p  =  0.061). The difference in  estimated  reduction in risk of disease progression or death was 
significant between the triple therapy arm compared to ZDV/ddI arm (44 % versus 34 % respectively; 
p = 0.0065). The clinical benefit of the triple combination therapy was mostly apparent in experienced 
patients. At weeks 16, 24 and 32 the average increase of CD4 cell counts was significantly superior in 
the  triple  therapy  group  over  ZDV/ddI  group.  This  study  confirmed  the  clinical  benefit  of  the  triple 
combination over ZDV/ddI measured as disease progression or death in patients with CD4 cell counts 
below 50 mm3. 
Supportive data 
The potential clinical benefit of nevirapine in combination with protease inhibitors was not established 
nor the potential use of nevirapine in patients who failed therapy with protease inhibitors at the time of 
the  granting  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation.  Provision  of  data  on  these  issues  was  part  of  the 
obligations  to  be  fulfilled  by  the  applicant.  Similarly  data  on  the  response  of  patients  who  failed 
treatment with Viramune in triple therapy who have been treated subsequently with protease inhibitor 
combination therapy were to be provided. 
Results  from  retrospective  study  submitted  as  part  of  the  annual  re-assessment  of  the  benefit/risk 
profile  showed  that  nevirapine  in  combination  with  nucleoside  analogues  therapy  did  not  render 
patients unresponsive to subsequent protease inhibitor therapy. Further data are, however, still awaited. 
14/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information related to study ISS047, which enrolled 68 antiretroviral naive adult patients administered 
either ZDV + ddI + nevirapine (n = 32) or ZDV + ddI + placebo was provided. Results showed a better 
response  of the triple therapy on CD4 cell counts and viral load than the double therapy. The safety 
results from this study were in accordance with previous studies. Preliminary results from the Atlantic 
study  were  provided  showing  that  there  is  no  significant  difference  between  the  three  regimens  on 
short-tem  evaluation  (24  weeks).  This  study  is  an  ongoing  open-label  study  comparing  two  protease 
inhibitors  sparing  antiretroviral  strategies  (stavudine/ddI/lamivudine  and  stavudine/ddI/nevirapine) 
versus  a  standard  protease  inhibitor  containing  regimen  (stavudine/ddI/indinavir)  in  HIV-1  infected 
antiretroviral  naive  patients  with  CD4  cell  counts  over  200  cells/mm3  and  plasma  HIV  RNA  >  500 
copies/ml. The planned duration of this study is 72 weeks. 
Children 
The potential clinical benefit of nevirapine was not established in children at the time of the granting of 
the  Marketing  Authorisation  but  submission  of  a  paediatric  dossier  was  part  of  the  obligations  to  be 
fulfilled by the applicant. 
The extension of the indication of nevirapine to children is mainly based on the extrapolation of data 
obtained  from  adult  patients.  In  addition,  specific  studies  have  been  performed  to  define  dosage 
recommendation of nevirapine on the basis of pharmacokinetics and biological efficacy on surrogate 
markers  and  to  confirm  the  safety  of  nevirapine  in  this  population.  All  the  clinical  trials  have  been 
performed  according  to  GCP  standards  and  agreed  international  ethical  principles.  The  majority  of 
patients  received  nevirapine  suspension.  Patients  were  however  allowed  to  take  nevirapine  tablets 
based on a patient’s dose and ability to swallow tablets.  
The  clinical  programme  consisted  of  4  clinical  trials,  BI  1100.882,  1100.892,  1100.859  (expanded 
access trial) and the double blind ACTG 245 (1100.1032). Most of the data provided refer to safety. 
An overview of the design of the studies are given in the table below: 
Study 
Number  
Design 
Study Regimen  Dose 
Completed studies 
1100.882 
(ACTG 180) 
Open label 
Multicenter 
•  NVP (11) 
•  NVP/ZDV 
(17 
patients) 
•  NVP/ZDV
/ddI 
(9 
patients) 
ACTG 245 
(1100.1032) 
Randomised  
Double blind 
Placebo-
controlled 
•  NVP/ZDV
/ddI 
•  ZDV/ddI 
•  NVP/ddI 
120 mg/m2 q.d. 
during  28  days 
by 
followed 
120  mg/m2  bid 
(patients  >  9 
years  old)  or 
mg/m2 
200 
(patients  <  9 
years old) 
• 
120mg/m2
qd/x14d 
then 
120mg/m2 
bid 
Intended 
Study 
Duration  
Number  of  patients  (as 
of  cut-off  date)/prior 
nucleoside status 
Male/Female 
age 
Mean 
(range) 
years 
6 months 
37  children/naive  and 
experienced 
20 M/17 F 
3.3 (0.17 – 15.1) 
48  weeks  plus 
extension 
nevirapine 
431 children² 
(305 
treated) 
experienced 
children 
with  advanced  HIV 
infection 
254 M/177 F 
7.5 (0.8 – 19.3) 
Ongoing studies 
1100.859 
Open-label 
expanded access 
NVP 
NVP with other 
antiretrovirals 
NVP 
120mg/m2x14d 
120 
then 
mg/m2 bid 
Until  IND  is 
withdrawn  or 
nevirapine 
becomes 
registered  
19  children  naive  and 
experienced 
5  M/13  F  (gender  not 
available for one) 
2 (3 days-11 years) 
15/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Number  
1100.892 
Design 
Study Regimen  Dose 
long 
nevirapine 
Open-label 
term 
access 
•  NVP 
•  NVP/ZDV 
•  NVP/ZDV
/ddI 
240  mg/m2  or 
400 mg/m2 
Clinical pharmacology studies 
1100.853 
(ACTG 165) 
Single 
pharmacokinetic 
dose 
Nevirapine 
Intended 
Study 
Duration  
Until  IND  is 
withdrawn  or 
nevirapine 
becomes 
registered  
Single  dose  + 
4  days follow-
up  
Number  of  patients  (as 
of  cut-off  date)/prior 
nucleoside status 
Male/Female 
Mean 
age 
(range) 
29³ 
experienced 
16 M/13 F 
4.4 (0.8 –15.6) 
children 
years 
9 HIV infected children 
¹  
²  
³  
Initiation = date of first patient enrolled; completion date not yet defined for ongoing studies 
432  patients  were  enrolled;  however  one  patient  discontinued  the  trial  before  medication  was 
administered and only demography data are available for this patient. 
These patients previously participated in trial 1100.882 
Study 1100.882 
Efficacy was measured in terms of virologic, immunologic and growth activity markers using median 
changes from baseline. Virologic response to therapy was measured by HIV RNA using a test with a 
limit  of  quantification  of  400  copies/ml.  Differences  among  groups  were  not  tested  because  dose 
cohorts  were not randomised. The protocol of this study  has been amended  to reflect the changes  to 
standard of care. 
Patients treated with nevirapine/zidovudine/didanosine (n = 8) maintained a median decrease of greater  
than 2 logs below baseline in HIV RNA levels for 8 weeks (7 of 8 achieved a nadir of at least 1.6 logs) 
with  results  maintaining  statistically  significantly  below  baseline  through  24-28  weeks  (p  =  0.03). 
Only one of eight patients treated with triple therapy had HIV RNA levels that returned to baseline by 
the end of the study. Triple therapy increased the percent of CD4 cells and significantly increased the 
weight-age  index  for  triple  therapy  patients.  The  HIV  RNA  levels  for  two  patients  receiving  triple 
therapy  in  this  trial  became  undetectable  (<  20  copies/ml).  These  two  patients  lost  HIV  antibody, 
suggesting  that  suppression  of  viral  replication  was  nearly  complete.  Patients  in  all  three  treatment 
regimens maintained a median increase above baseline in percent CD4 cells for 24 to 32 weeks.  
Results  on  HIV  RNA  levels,  p24  antigen  levels,  CD4  cells  and  weight  growth-index  suggested  that 
treatment with triple therapy gives more consistent improvement  
Results  obtained  with  double  therapy  and  monotherapy  do  not  support  the  use  of  any  of  these 
regimens.  Although  limited  to  a  small  group  of  patients  the  data  provided  indicate  that  combination 
antiretroviral therapy including could have a potent and prolonged activity.  
Study ACTG 245 
Results of the study ACTG 245, which involved children and adolescents with advanced disease and 
previous  antiviral  therapy  were  not  available  at  the  time  of  recommendation  for  the  granting  of  a 
marketing authorisation. Data from ACTG 245 were submitted later as part of the specific obligations 
to be fulfilled post –authorisation. The antiretroviral activity was measured by the reduction in plasma 
HIV  RNA  and  plasma  p24  antigen  levels  at  48  weeks.  Safety  and  pharmacokinetics  were  also 
evaluated.  Triple  therapy  appeared  to  have  the  most  favourable  drop  in  HIV  RNA  from  baseline  at 
almost all time points (4, 12, 24, 36 and 48 weeks), followed by the didanosine/zidovudine arm. The 
reduction  observed  in  the  triple  therapy  arm  exceeded  that  observed  with  didanosine/zidovudine 
(p=0.035)  and  with  didanosine/nevirapine  (p<0.00001).  There  were  no  major  differences  in  adverse 
reactions between the different arms. Pharmacokinetic parameters were found to be in accordance with 
previous  studies.  The  most  important  limitation  of  the  of  the  ACTG  245  study  was  the  nevirapine 
dosage.  A  significant  number  of  patients  were  treated  with  a  lower  dosage  (120  mg/m2)  than  the 
regimen proposed in the SPC. This fact has implications on safety and probably efficacy results.It was 
accepted from the beginning for Viramune Oral formulation that, in the absence of extensive data from 
paediatric clinical trials, the goal in children should be to achieve nevirapine steady state plasma levels 
16/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
similar  to  the  ones  detected  in  adult  clinical  trials,  i.e.  4  to  6  µg/ml  (median  plasma  steady  state  of 
5.3µg/ml), using 200mg b.i.d.  This solution was accepted even knowing that markers of immunologic 
function, virus load, and rates of disease progression are associated with age. 
Evaluation  of  data,  mainly  from  study  ACTG  245,  suggests  that  a  dose  based  on  body  surface  area 
rather than body weight is probably a better therapeutic regimen to achieve a nevirapine steady state 
plasma  levels  similar  to  the  adults.  In  fact  the  combined  study  results  showed  that  the  mg/kg  dose 
requirements  decline  with  the  age  and  the  dosing  requirements  based  on  body  surface  area  remain 
reasonably  constant  with  age  when  body  surface  area  exceeds  0.3  m2.  The  surface  area  basis  that 
mirrors the physiological development of the paediatric patient seems to be more appropriate to guide 
the nevirapine dose regimen. 
The  data  from  ACTG  245  study  also  suggests  that  150mg/m2  BID  may  be  a  more  suitable  dose 
regimen  to  achieve  the  proposed  goal  (median  plasma  steady  state  of  5.3µg/ml)  as  the  dose  of 
120mg/m2  BID  used  in  the  ACTG  245  and  other  studies  would  result  in  an  average  exposure  of 
4.3µg/ml.  
Prevention of perinatal transmission 
During the post-authorisation phase, results from a HIVNET 012, a randomised double blind Phase III 
clinical study carried out in Uganda showed that the nevirapine therapy (200 mg dose orally in labour 
and  2  mg/kg  to  her  infant  within  72  h  after  birth)  significantly  reduced  the  risk  of  perinatal 
transmission in HIV infected pregnant women during the first 14 weeks compared with ZDV regimen 
(600 mg at the onset of labour and 300 mg every 3 hours until delivery, and 4 mg/kg twice daily to 
babies for 7 days). The cumulative HIV-1 infant infection rate at 14-16 weeks was 13.1 % (n = 310) in 
the nevirapine group, versus 25.1 % (n = 308) in the ultra-short zidovudine group (p = 0.00063).   
PACTG 316 (1100.1207) was an international study performed in North and South America, Europe 
and the West Indies.  The study was a placebo controlled, randomised study planned to investigate the 
use  of  the  HIVNET  012  nevirapine  regimen  in  HIV-1  positive  pregnant  women  of  ≥  28  weeks 
gestation. The study medication was given in addition to whatever additional antiretroviral treatment 
has been prescribed for the mother and child.  The infants were followed up for the first six months of 
life. The main objective was to evaluate the effect of the regimen on the incidence of HIV infection, 
the safety of the regimen for the mothers and infants, the relationship between maternal viral load at 
delivery  and  HIV  transmission  and  the  effect  of  nevirapine  treatment  on  HIV  RNA  levels  in  infants 
who  are  determined  to  be  HIV  infected.  The  target  recruitment  was  2009  mother  infant  pairs.  The 
recruitment was halted in June 2000, after 1506 women being recruited (1174 received study treatment 
and had infants with known HIV status at the time of the analysis), because the initial objective (50% 
decrease in vertical transmission) could not be met due to the very low vertical transmission observed 
in the trial (1.5%; 95% confidence interval 1.0-27%). 
The  SAINT  study  (1100.1287)  compared  the  efficacy  of  two  regimens  in  the  prevention  of  vertical 
transmission of HIV in South Africa. It is a randomised, open label study which compared a nevirapine 
regimen (200 mg nevirapine to the mother during active labour and 6 mg to the infant between 24 and 
48 hours post delivery) with a short course zidovudine + lamivudine regimen (the mother receives 600 
mg zidovudine initially and then 300 mg every 3 hours during labour and 300mg BID for 7 days post 
delivery plus lamivudine 150 mg BID during labour and for 7 days post delivery; the infant receives 
zidovudine 12 mg BID (4 mg/kg BID if weight < 2 kg) for 7 days plus lamivudine 6 mg BID (2 mg/kg 
BID if weight <2 kg) for 7 days.  Mothers and infants were followed for the first 6-12 weeks of life.  
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  nevirapine  versus  zidovudine  +  lamivudine  in 
reducing  peripartum  mother  to  child  HIV  transmission  of  HIV.  The  secondary  objective  was  to 
evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerance  of  the  two  regimens  in  both  the  mothers  and  infants.    The  target 
enrolment was 1350 mothers. Recruitment commenced in April 1999.  Results of a primary analysis of 
the incidence of peripartum infections (intrapartum and post-partum up to ten weeks) were presented. 
The analysis performed (Kaplan-Meier) estimates of HIV transmission rates were 12.7% for NVP and 
9.5% for AZT+lamivudine arms. Although there was a trend favourable to AZT+lamivudine there are 
no significant differences between the arms. 
17/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy results showed no significant difference in HIV-1 transmission rates through 6 to 8 weeks 
between the nevirapine group (5.7 %, n = 652) and the zidovudine plus lamivudine group (3.6 %, n = 
649).  The  rate  of  adverse  events  was  similar  in  both  groups.  There  was  greater  risk  of  HIV-1 
transmission  to  babies  whose  mothers  received  their  nevirapine  or  their  zidovudine  plus  lamivudine 
doses  less  than  2  hours  before  delivery.  The  secondary  analysis  on  resistance  showed  that  68%  of 
nevirapine-exposed mothers of this study had resistant strains at approximately 4 weeks after delivery. 
The clinical relevance of these data in European populations has not been established. Furthermore, in 
the case nevirapine is used, as single dose to prevent vertical transmission of HIV-1 infection, the risk 
of hepatotoxicity in mother and child cannot be excluded. 
Virological data derived from clinical isolates 
Limited evaluation of resistance development was carried out. Rapid emergence of nevirapine resistant 
virus, in particularly during nevirapine monotherapy, was observed with loss of antiviral activity (100 
to  250-fold).  Phenotypic  and  genetypic  changes  occurred  in  HIV  isolates  from  patients  treated  with 
nevirapine  monotherapy  or  in  combination  with  ZDV  over  1  to  12  weeks.  By  week  8  of  nevirapine 
monotherapy 100 % of the patients had HIV isolates with more than 100-fold decrease in susceptibility 
to nevirapine regardless of dose. 
Studies  to  evaluate  the  genetic  analysis  of  resistant  mutants  were  carried  out  in  6  ZDV-experienced 
adult patients and 4 antiretroviral-naive paediatric  patients, who received combination regimens with 
ZDV, nevirapine or ddI. Genotypes of cloned RT genes were determined in sequential clinical isolates 
before  and  after  receiving  nevirapine  therapy.  Data  indicated  that  resistance  to  nevirapine  could  be 
attributed  to  single-based  pair  mutations  of  the  RT  gene  located  at  the  nevirapine  binding  sites  i.e. 
changes in amino acid residues 103, 106, 108, 181, 188 and 190, in all treatment regimens examined. 
The pattern of mutations arising appeared to be influenced by prior and current drug therapy. Mutation 
at position 181, which is the most frequent mutation, was found to suppress ZDV resistance conferred 
by mutations 41 and 215. 
Multiple mutations from the nevirapine binding pocket result in high level resistance to nevirapine. All 
the mutations that considerably changed susceptibilities to nevirapine, i.e. at position 181 (substitution 
from of cysteine for tyrosine), 190 and 238 had little or no effect on the susceptibilities to ZDV or ddI. 
Phenotypic  resistance  to  nevirapine  was  less  observed  in  triple  therapy  group,  where  a  majority  of 
patients  maintained  viral  load  beneath  the  limit  of  quantification,  (21  %,  5  of  the  24  samples 
submitted) than in double therapy, nevirapine/ZDV group (69 % of the 16 samples submitted) in study 
BI 1046. 
Overall  HIV-1  resistance  to  nevirapine  is  rapidly  developed  when  nevirapine  is  used  either  in 
monotherapy  or  double  therapy  with  ZDV  as  compared  to  triple  therapy.  The  clinical  relevance  of 
phenotypic and genotypic changes associated with nevirapine has not been established.   
Data obtained from study PACTG 316 showed that nevirapine resistance mutations could emerge after 
a  single  dose,  also  in  women  on  other  ARV  therapy.  Mutations  associated  to  nevirapine  resistance 
were found in 2.3% of the women at delivery. Of the 95 women who received intrapartum nevirapine, 
15%  developed  nevirapine  resistance  mutations  at  6  weeks  post  partum.  No  correlation  was  found 
between  the  nevirapine  resistance  and  CD4  cell  counts,  HIV  RNA  copy  number  or  background 
antiretroviral therapy 
The  objective  of  a  retrospective  cohort  study  (“Non-nuceloside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor 
[NNRTI]  resistance  among  patients  failing  a  nevirapine  plus  protease  inhibitor-containing  regimen”) 
was to determine the rate of nevirapine resistance in patients failing a nevirapine (NVP) plus protease 
inhibitor (PI) based regimen, and whether these isolates remain susceptible to other NNRTI. Eighty-
eight  HIV-infected,  NNRTI-naïve  patients  receiving  NVP  plus  PI  as  a  rescue  regimen  after  PI 
treatment failure were involved in the study. A baseline resistance of 70% to NVP, 91% to efavirenz 
and  71%  to  delavirdine  was  found.  At  24  weeks  the  resistance  to  NVP  was  found  in  92%  of  the 
patients. The development of NVP resistance was associated to the baseline PI resistance included on 
the regimen. 
18/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cross-resistance 
A  study  conducted  in  France  was  “449  Resistance  profile  and  cross-resistance  to  HIV-1  among 
104 patients  failing  a  NNRTI  containing  regimen”.  The  objective  of  this  study  was  to  determine  the 
resistance  profile  and  the  rate  of  cross-resistance  in  patients  failing  efavirenz  or  a  NVP  and  that 
efavirenz-containing regimen and to investigate whether ZDV or other thymidine analog nucleosides 
lead to a particular genotypic pattern in NVP-failing patients. One hundred percent of the isolates from 
patients failing efavirenz showed cross-resistance to NVP and almost 100% of the patients treated with 
nevirapine  showed  NNRTI  resistance  pattern.  Eighty  percent  of  the  isolates  from  patients  who  fail 
NVP  treatment  and  presenting  NNRTIs  resistance  profiles  harboured  mutations  conferring  cross-
resistance  to  efavirenz  and  9%  mutations  conferring  resistance  to  NVP  alone.  Patients  who  failed 
consecutively NVP and efavirenz therapy showed resistance to all NNRTIs. When ZDV or stavudine 
were used in the regimen the isolates were more frequently resistant to efavirenz.    
As requested by the Committee, further investigation on the development of resistance to nevirapine 
and where appropriate to other antiretroviral agents in Viramune failed patients will be carried out in 
ongoing and future studies. Further phenotypic and genotypic resistance data derived from the INCAS 
study  were  submitted.  Genotypic  and  phenotypic  resistance  was  examined  for  patients  receiving 
nevirapine  in  triple  and  double  therapy  drug  combination  therapy,  and  in  the  non-nevirapine 
comparative group from the INCAS study. Of the three study groups (nevirapine/ZDV, ZDV/ddI and 
nevirapine/ZDV/ddI),  16,  19  and  28  patients  respectively  had  evaluable  baseline  isolates  and 
subsequently  remained  in  the  study  for  at  least  24  weeks.    At  baseline,  there  were  five  cases  of 
phenotypic  resistance  to  nevirapine;  the  IC50  values  were  5  to  6.5-fold  increased  in  three  and  > 
100 fold in two. At 24 weeks, all available isolates recoverable from patients receiving nevirapine were 
resistant to this agent, while 18/21 (86 %) patients carried such isolates at 30-60 weeks. In 16 subjects 
viral  suppression  was  below  the  limits  of  detection  (<  20  copies/ml  =  14;  <  400  copies/ml  =  2). 
Assuming that suppression below < 20 copies/ml implies nevirapine susceptibility of the virus, 45 % 
(17/38)  of  patients  had  virus  measured  or  imputed  to  be  susceptible  to  nevirapine.  All  11  subjects 
receiving  nevirapine  +  zidovudine  who  were  tested  for  phenotypic  resistance  were  resistant  to 
nevirapine by six months. Over the entire period of observation, one case of didanosine resistance was 
seen.  Zidovudine  resistance  emerged  as  more  frequent  after  30-60  weeks,  especially  in  patients 
receiving double combination therapy. Based on the increase in IC50, zidovudine resistance appeared 
lower in the nevirapine + zidovudine + didanosine group than the other treatment groups. With respect 
to nevirapine resistance, all isolates that were sequenced carried at least one mutation associated with 
resistance,  the  most  common  single  changes  being  K103N  and  Y181C.  Combinations  of  mutations 
were  found  in  nine  of  the  12  patients  observed.  These  data  from  INCAS  illustrated  that  the  use  of 
highly  active  drug  therapies  is  associated  with  a  delay  in  the  development  of  antiretroviral  drug 
resistance. 
19/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The  main  safety  data  was  obtained  from  the  four  controlled  combination  therapy  trials  (BI1037, 
BI1011,  BI1046  and  BI1031),  which  enrolled  906  patients  with  a  median  duration  of  nevirapine 
exposure  of  11.1  months.  Almost  half  of  these  patients  received  nevirapine  for  a  period  longer  than 
12 months.  The  overall  characteristics  of  the  population were  male (86 %),  white (80  %) nucleoside 
analogues experienced patients (60 %). 
The analysis revealed that the adverse effects related to nevirapine are mostly rash, nausea, headache, 
abnormal  liver  function  tests  (LFTs),  fatigue,  fever,  vomiting  and  myalgia.  Discontinuation  of 
nevirapine therapy was mainly due to rash (6.8 %), fever (2.9 %), abnormal LFTs (2.5 %), fatigue (2.0 
%) and nausea (1.9 %). 
The  overall  incidence  of  drug-related  events  increased  when  nevirapine  was  added  to  a  previous 
antiretroviral  therapy.  Similarly  drug  related  adverse  events  were  more  frequently  reported  when 
nevirapine is used in combination therapy as compared to monotherapy (38 % and 33 % respectively). 
With respect to rash, data showed that 16 % of the rashes reported could be attributed to nevirapine. 
Five  patients  presented  a  life-threatening  rash.  No  correlation  was  however  found  between  rash 
incidence and nevirapine plasma levels. It was found that the greatest risk to develop rash occurred in 
the first 28 days of nevirapine therapy. In the majority of cases reported rash was autolimited but when 
associated to fever or other general symptoms rash was seen as potentially dangerous event. Evolution 
of  rash  to  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome  (SJS)  and  particularly  to  Toxic  Epidermal  Necrolisis  (TEN) 
described by Lyell (Lyell syndrome) was an ominous sign. From analysis of all available clinical data 
(2861 patients) nine patients had confirmed SJS (0.3 %) and two of them were felt to have a transition 
syndrome to TEN. 
Post-marketing surveillance showed that the nature of spontaneous reports were similar to the adverse 
events observed in clinical trials. Overall reported incidence of these adverse events (SJS/TEN) were 
however lower than observed in clinical trials. 
Cases  of  diarrhoea,  vomiting,  abdominal  pain,  bilirubinaemia  and  jaundice  were  reported  in  the  first 
periodic  safety  update  report:  In  addition,  the  most  frequently  reported  reactions  with  respect  to  the 
liver  and  biliary  system  disorders  were  elevations  of  liver  function  tests,  of  which  43  %  were 
considered  serious.  It  was  therefore  considered  acceptable  to  include  into  the  SPC  the  relevant 
information on these undesirable effects. 
Three  fatal  cases  of  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome  (SJS)  were  reported  in  the  second  Periodic  Safety 
Update  report  (PSUR).  It  is  likely  that  the  relationship  between  nevirapine  therapy  and  the  onset  of 
SJS  had  caused  these  fatalities.  The  inclusion  of  allergic  reactions  and  rash  associated  with 
constitutional  symptoms  and  visceral  involvement  was  considered  acceptable  considering  reactions 
related to the skin and appendages reported. The wording in the SPC had therefore been strengthening. 
Liver  function  abnormalities  (LFTs)  abnormalities  were  expected  with  nevirapine  mainly  due  to 
enzymatic induction. Toxic hepatitis was a non-rare complication observed in the four referred studies. 
Many  patients  experienced  LFTs  abnormalities  other  than  GGT  elevation  (ALT  and  AST  increases) 
which led to temporary or definitive interruption of nevirapine therapy. The rate of withdrawal due to 
hepatitis  reported  from  clinical  trials  was  0.8  %.  In  order  to  prevent  the  development  of  hepatitis,  a 
close monitoring of the liver function test abnormalities during the first weeks of nevirapine therapy is 
therefore  recommended.  The  incidence  of  drug-related  hepatitis  was  not  higher  with  nevirapine  than 
with  other  antiretrovirals.  Post  marketing  surveillance  data  confirmed  the  hepatic  toxicity  of 
nevirapine. A total of eight cases of fulminant hepatitis were described in both PSURs (four cases in 
each  one).  Although  the  causal  relationship  has  not  been  established,  nevirapine  seemed  to  have  an 
important  role  in  these  cases.  The  risk  of  potentially  fatal  hepatotoxicity  reactions  has  been 
strengthening in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Several possible cases of hypersensitivity syndrome characterised by fever and rash plus alterations of 
liver function (including hepatitis or liver failure) or renal involvement or pancreatitis or myocaditis or 
haematoligical 
lymphocytosis, 
eosinophilia)  have  been  found  over  the  three  PSURs.  Therefore  it  was  considered  appropriate  to 
include in the relevant sections of the SPC a warning on this effect.  
(lymphoadenopathy,  granulocytopaenia,  atypical 
involvement 
20/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although the warnings had already been strengthened in the SPC and PL, additional cases of severe, 
life-threatening  and  sometimes  fatal  cutaneous  (including  SJS  and  TEN)  and  hepatic  reactions 
associated  with  clinical  and  biological  signs  of  hypersensitivity  have  been  reported.  A  cumulative 
review  of  the  four  first  PSURs  and  the  assessment  of  these  cases  and  further  analysis  from  large 
clinical  studies  and  spontaneous  reports  database  showed  that  severe  and  life-threatening  skin 
reactions, including fatal cases, occur mainly during the first 6 weeks of nevirapine therapy. Some risk 
factors  of  severity  have  been  identified:  these  are  the  non-respect  of  the  lead-in  dose  escalation 
regimen and a delay in seeking medical attention when the first symptoms appear. Some of them were 
associated with signs of hypersensitivity (characterised by rash, and constitutional symptoms such as 
fever,  arthralgia,  myalgia,  lymphadenopathy  and  visceral  involvement  such  as  hepatitis,  eosinophilia 
and  renal  dysfunction).  A  prospective,  randomised,  open-label  trial  showed  that  prophylactic  use  of 
prednisone to prevent rash may result in an increase of rash associated to nevirapine. With respect to 
the hepatic reactions, the above mentioned analysis showed that most of the cases of serious hepatitis 
and  hepatic  failure  events  have  been  reported  to  occur  mainly  within  the  first  8  weeks  of  treatment 
with nevirapine, during which a close monitoring is required. One third of cases have however been 
reported to occur after this critical period. Increased ASAT or ALAT levels prior to the start of therapy 
with nevirapine containing regimens are associated with greater risk of hepatic adverse reactions.  
Many  hepatic  adverse  reactions  did  not  occur  in  a  context  of  hypersensitivity  syndrome,  the 
hypersensitivity syndrome can, however, course with hepatic compromise.  
Therefore  having  re-assessed  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  nevirapine,  the  warnings  concerning  the 
occurrence of these events have  been  reinforced.  In addition new recommendations  for the liver  and 
cutaneous  monitoring  of  patients  treated  with  nevirapine,  especially  during  the  first  8  weeks  of 
treatment  (the period  of occurrence of the greatest  risk  of hepatic events and skin reactions has then 
been reassessed to be within the first 6 weeks of therapy, see Expanded analysis of Hepatic reactions in 
Viramune  clinical  trials)  or  when  the  patients  experience  clinical  or  biological  signs  of  hepatitis  or 
hypersensitivity, have been introduced through an urgent procedure. 
Eighteen  cases  of  methadone  withdrawal  following  the  concomitant  administration  of  nevirapine, 
which is a known inducer of cytochrome P 450 system, have been reported. The symptoms of narcotic 
withdrawal appeared soon after the administration of nevirapine and required an increase in methadone 
dosage.  A  statement  on  the  potential  interaction  between  both  products  has  been  introduced  in  the 
SPC. 
Treatment  with  a  combination  of  at  least  three  antiretroviral  drugs  can  induce  a  characteristic 
syndrome  termed  lipodystrophy  or  fat  redistribution  syndrome  containing  peripheral  fat  wasting 
(including  accentuation  of  facial  folds)  and  central  adiposity.  Metabolic  disturbances  such  as 
hyperlipidaemia and insulin resistance also often appear. PIs were originally believed to be the causal 
agents.  NRTIs  have  also  been  implicated.  In  addition,  lipodystrophy  has  also  been  observed  with 
protease-inhibitor-sparing  regimens.  The  emerging  picture  is  that  of  a  connection  between  visceral 
lipomatosis  and  protease  inhibitors  and  lipoatrophy  and  NRTIs  correlating  with  different  possible 
mechanisms e.g. effects on lipoprotein production and adipocyte differentiation. Non-drug factors are 
also of importance e.g. increasing age, duration and severity of HIV infection. 
Following  evaluation  of  data  submitted  by  all  MAHs  of  antiretroviral  medicinal  products,  a  class 
labelling,  which  harmonises  the  information  on  lipodystrophy  for  all  three  classes  of  antiretroviral 
products, has been agreed and implemented in the product information for all antiretroviral medicinal 
products. The wording presents as much as possible  of the presently available knowledge; it  gives a 
description  of  the  condition  (although  there  is  at  present  no  clear  definition  of  lipodystrophy), 
information  about  causality  and  surveillance  measures.  The  higher  risk  of  developing  lipodystrophy 
with  long-term  therapy  as  well  as  importance  of  factors  such  as  age  and  disease  related  factors  is 
mentioned. 
Expanded analysis of Hepatic reactions in Viramune clinical trials  
The  MAH  has  presented  to  the  CPMP,  a  Technical  Clinical  Report  named  “Expanded  Analysis  of 
Hepatic  Reactions  in  Viramune  Clinical  trials”,  which  overcomes  some  demographic  limitations  on 
gender, race and CD4+ cell counts of previous analysis [integration of Atlantic and FCT-302 into the 
21/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrated Summary of Safety (ISS) database and data generated from other trials]. The investigation 
incorporated databases from 17 clinical trials, that were performed in several countries from Europe, 
North  and  South  America,  Australia  and  Africa.  A  total  of  2545  nevirapine  treated  patients  were 
included  from  which  663  were  women,  683  were  blacks  and  1137  had  baseline  CD4+  cell  counts 
above  250.  The  main  demographic  characteristics  of  the  studied  population  is  summarised  in  the 
following tables: 
Patients included in the Analysis from controlled trials  
Total 
Nevirapine 
1731 
Control 
1911 
Mean exposure (weeks) 
50 
Non-comparative trials from which only nevirapine data were available 
Total 
Nevirapine (patients) 
643 
Mean exposure (weeks) 
45 
The aim of this analysis was to determine the risk of hepatic events, to describe the timing and clinical 
presentation  of  these  events,  and  to  clarify  the  inter-relation  of  risk  factors  of  hepatic  reactions 
observed  in  Viramune  clinical  trials.  In  order  to  better  understand  the  underlying  causes  and  risk 
factors of hepatic events, this analysis tried to improve the precision of classifying hepatotoxicity by:  
- Implementing a standardized process for selection and review of patients with potential symptomatic 
hepatic events, 
- differentiating between symptomatic and asymptomatic elevations in ALT or AST,  
-  separating  symptomatic  hepatic  events  that  were  associated  with  rash  and  other  potential  immune 
symptoms from hepatic events that did not have possible immune component.  
The methodology for patient capture from databases that could possibly have had a hepatic event was 
considered  as  acceptable.  In  an  overall  population  of  4456  patients  (nevirapine  and  non-nevirapine 
treated  patients)  the  computer  algorithms  identified  536  patients  as  potential  cases  of  symptomatic 
hepatic events, whose records were reviewed by internal and external clinical experts.  Seven patients 
met criteria for review as both non-nevirapine controls and as open label, non-comparative nevirapine 
patients and hence, were reviewed in both categories.  
Due to several factors as multiple disease processes involved in HIV-1 infection, poly-medication, and 
the degree of detail reported in clinical trial database, it was not possible to systematically distinguish 
between fluctuations in chronic liver disease and possible drug induced exacerbations of chronic liver 
disease. 
At the end of the process the reviewed categories were differentiated into three situations:  
a) rash-associated symptomatic hepatic events.  
b) other symptomatic hepatic events. 
c) asymptomatic elevations of ALT and AST > 5 x ULN. 
The  cut-off  of  5  x  ULN  for  ALT  and  AST  was  used  since  it  has  been  used  conventionally  as  an 
indicator of potential hepatic toxicity. 
The main conclusions provided by the MAH and endorsed by the CPMP were as follows: 
Based on the current and previous analysis (including evaluations of cohort studies and spontaneously 
reported cases), occurrence of “symptomatic hepatic events” attributable to Viramune varies according 
to  the  population  under  treatment  and  the  clinical  presentations.  Moreover,  hepatic  events  may  be 
categorised into “Rash-associated events” and “other hepatic events”. In addition, fulminant hepatitis 
or death due to Viramune events is rare. Risk factors (and perhaps pathogenic mechanisms) differ for 
the different types of clinical presentations of hepatic events. 
22/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Rash and associated hepatic events: 
Are associated with Viramune treatment, 
Occur in the first 6 weeks of therapy, 
Higher baseline CD4+ cell counts increased risk, 
Females were at higher risk than males, 
The risk of hepatic events was similar for blacks and whites. 
- Other hepatic events and asymptomatic transaminase elevations: 
May be related to Viramune treatment, 
 Risk of these events is greatest in the first 6 weeks, but events continued to occur thereafter; 
After 18 weeks, this was similar to control patients. 
For both Viramune and non-Viramune patients, 
Elevated baseline hepatic enzymes increased risk, 
Co-infection with hepatitis B increased risk, 
Co-infection with hepatitis C was a significant risk factor asymptomatic transaminase elevations, but 
not for other hepatic events. 
- Transaminase elevations in the absence of clinical hepatitis: 
Viramune therapy should be interrupted for asymptomatic transaminase elevations greater than 
5xULN  (patients should be evaluated for viral hepatitis and other causes of liver injury), 
It  is  not  medically  prudent  to  re-introduce  Viramune  therapy  in  patients  who  have  had  such 
transaminase elevations in conjunction with rash or other symptomatic hepatic events. 
However, data were too limited to make a general recommendation regarding risk/benefit of re-
introduction  of  Viramune  following  return  to  transaminase  levels  to  baseline,  and  physicians 
should decide how to manage the patient, on a case-by-case basis. 
The other recommendations in the Viramune hepatic event management remain appropriate.  
Further  to  the  proposal  of  the  MAH  to  inform  prescribers  of  the  conclusion  of  the  post-marketing 
surveillance analysis and of the Viramune expanding clinical trial database, a Dear Doctor Letter has 
been adopted by the CPMP on 21 January 2003. This letter specifically drew on the above-summarised 
conclusions and on the related SPC changes the attention of prescribers. 
Liver impairment in HIV positive patients  
Further  to  the  discussions  held  by  the  Ad-hoc  Group  of  Experts  on  Anti-HIV  medicinal  products  in 
November  2001,  the  CPMP  agreed  that  liver  impairment  was  of  increasing  concern  in  HIV  positive 
patients  both  in  the  form  of  adverse  hepatic  effects  in  patients  with  normal  liver  function  prior  to 
antiretroviral treatment (ART) and as regards patients with chronic liver disease treated with ART.  
In January 2002 the CPMP requested the MAH for all authorised anti-retroviral medicinal products to 
conduct  a  retrospective  review  of  clinical  trials  and  post  marketing  data  relating  to  the  use  of  their 
product(s) in patients with hepatic impairment and/or HBV/HCV co-infection. Following review of the 
submitted  responses  and  discussions  held  during  the  CPMP  meeting  and  the  Pharmacovigilance 
Working  Party  meeting  in  October  2002,  the  CPMP  adopted  a  list  of  questions  (including  general, 
product specific and SPC wording recommendations). 
The  review  of  the  MAHs  responses  has  essentially  confirmed  that  co-infected  patients  and  patients 
with  underlying  liver  disorders  are  at  increased  risk  for  adverse  events,  essentially  confined  to  liver 
events.  Overall,  there  is  a  disturbing  lack  of  general  and  product  specific  knowledge  (e.g  relevant 
pharmacokinetic data in patients with liver impairment), but there are ongoing activities.   
For  some  of  the  products  still  undergoing  drug  development,  the  MAHs  have  confirmed  that  co-
infected  patients  will  not  be  excluded  from  participation  in  the  studies.  The  CPMP  stressed  that 
whenever  feasible  a  minimum  number  of  co-infected  patients  should  be  included  in  forthcoming 
studies in order to provide a reasonable basis for a relevant safety (and efficacy) analysis. 
Following the review of responses submitted by all MAHs of antiretroviral medicinal products, a class 
labelling  on  “liver  disease”  has  been  agreed  and  implemented  in  the  product  information  for  all 
antiretroviral medicinal products. 
23/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with the CPMP recommendations for all antiretroviral medicinal products to include in 
section 5.2, data on AUC,Cmax and Cmin (including CV), if available, derived from patients, the SPC 
of Viramune has been amended to include pharmacokinetic data reported in the literature . These data 
indicate  that  steady  state  through  levels  are  lower  than  those  measured  earlier,  and  that  nevirapine 
plasma concentrations above  3.5 µg/ml  seem to be related to an acceptable efficacy level in patients 
treated with multiple antiretroviral agents.  
The  CPMP  discussed  the  inclusion,  in  section  4.2  of  the  SPC  (Posology  and  Method  of 
Administration), of a recommendation for physicians to monitor the plasma levels in order to maintain 
appropriate  target  steady-state  nevirapine  trough  concentrations  with  a  cross  reference  to  section  5.2 
(Pharmacokinetic  properties).  This  proposal  has  not  been  endorsed  since  there  is  at  present,  no 
convincing evidence that any minimum trough level correlates with long-term success with Viramune.  
Future studies with regard to liver disease 
The  MAH  is  planning  to  perform  a  prospective  Pharmacokinetic  study  in  60  hepatically  impaired 
patients  (trial  1100.1448).  This  initiative  follows  the  CPMP  recommendations,  requesting  MAHs  to 
study  the  safety  of  their  antiretroviral  medicinal  products  in  patients  with  liver  impairment  and 
hepatitis co-infection. The MAH has committed to provide the CPMP with the results of this trial as 
soon as available. The trial is projected to complete during the year 2004. 
In addition, with respect to the request for follow-up as regards liver disorders and ART through cohort 
studies, the CPMP noted that the HAART oversight committee is active and will provide proposals for 
agreement. 
Children 
Patients exposure 
The  data  of  a  total  of  487  paediatric  patients  in  multiple-dose  trials  represent  the  basis  for  detailed 
presentation of demographic and safety data. Of these, 361 were treated with nevirapine, (305 patients 
in ACTG 245, 37 in 1100.882 and 19 patients in 1100.859). Detailed exposure data are presented only 
for  the  37  patients  who  participated  in  trial  1100.882  and  29  of  these  37  patients  who  continued 
nevirapine  therapy  in  trial  1100.892.  Limited  exposure  data  are  available  for  17  of  the  19  patients 
enrolled in the expanded access trial, 1100.859. Detailed exposure data were not presented for the 305 
nevirapine-treated patients in ACTG 245. 
The  majority  of  these  patients  were  male  (279/487,  57  %)  aged  ranging  from  3  days  to  19.3  years. 
Patients age varied among the trials: 2.0, 0.9 and 2.1 years (median age for trials 1100.859, 1100. 882 
and 1100.892 respectively) and 7.5 years (mean age in ACTG 245). Forty-two percent (204/487) were 
black,  38  %  hispanic  (184/487),  19  %  white  (93/487),  1  %  were  of  other  races  and  data  were  not 
available  for  3  patients  (0.6  %).  Because  study  1100.859  was  an  expanded  access  trial,  only 
nevirapine-related  events  and  deaths  of  any  causality  were  to  be  collected  on  case  report  forms. 
Patients mostly received nevirapine therapy at the dose of 120 mg/m2/day for 2 weeks followed by 120 
mg/m2/bid. Few data on patients treated with 200-mg/m2 bids are available from studies 1100.882 and 
892 (n = 22). 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
Based  on experience of 361 paediatric  patients treated in clinical trials, the most frequently reported 
adverse  events  related  to  nevirapine  were  similar  to  those  observed  in  adults,  with  the  exception  of 
granulocytopaenia, which was more commonly observed in children 
In studies 1100.882 and 892 for which all the adverse events are reported, rashes occurred in 43 % of 
patients. However they were considered related to nevirapine only in 16 % and all were mild. Therapy 
was discontinued only in one patient.  
In the large trial ACTG 245, only severe adverse events are described and 11 (4 %) of the 305 patients 
with nevirapine experienced a rash compared to 1/126 not receiving nevirapine.  
24/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most of these rashes occurred within the first 6 weeks of therapy as observed in adults with nevirapine 
related  rashes.  Two  children  (0.7  %)  developed  a  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome  and  1  had  an 
anaphylactic reaction including a rash. In adults the frequency of Steven-Johnson syndrome is 0.7 %.  
No other serious adverse events appeared to occur more frequently in patients whose regimen included 
nevirapine in trial ACTG 245. Hepatic adverse events (frequently associated with the use of nevirapine 
in adults)  were infrequent.  Additionally  to the  documentation  included in the initial application, the 
company  provided  the  preliminary  results  from  Study  1100.1222  (ACTG  356).  In  this  small  but 
relevant  study  a  nevirapine  dose  similar  to  the  one  proposed  in  SPC  was  given  to  the  patients.  This 
trial partially overcomes the major concerns, i.e few safety data on children with the proposed therapy 
regimens. Although the study relies only on data from children under two years it seems acceptable to 
extrapolate these preliminary safety results to children until 16 years as the safety data are available for 
adults and the safety profile was not significantly different on both groups.  
Overall nevirapine appears to be safe for use in HIV-1 infected children when given at the dose of 120-
mg/m2 bids after a lead-in period of 2 weeks at 120 mg/m2/day. However the data available on higher 
dosages is limited. The higher dosage proposed in younger children can be considered as safe as the 
dosage  used  in  older  children  and  adults  based  on  the  fact  that  pharmacokinetic  evaluation  indicates 
that the plasma concentrations in children up to 8 years with this dosage will be similar to those with 
120 mg/m2 bid in older children and 200 mg bid in adults.  
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment  
Although additional information will have to be submitted with regard to chemical and pharmaceutical 
aspects, the data are acceptable to ensure the quality and the consistency of the tablets.  
The quality of the oral suspension is considered to be satisfactory when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.   
The preclinical data are extensive and demonstrated the antiviral activity of nevirapine and relevant for 
the indication claimed. No additional preclinical testing was considered necessary with respect to the 
oral suspension. 
The efficacy of nevirapine in adults was established on grounds of favourable changes in plasma  
HIV-1  RNA  levels,  CD4  cell  counts  and  clinical  data.  Triple  combination  of  nevirapine/ZDV/ddI 
demonstrated a clinically relevant and statistically significant advantage over ZDV/ddI and in a greater 
extent  over  nevirapine/ZDV  group.  Results  however  did  not  favour  the  use  of  nevirapine  in  double 
therapy  with  one  nucleoside  in  naive  patients.  The  clinical  benefit  of  nevirapine,  based  on  the 
presented  data,  was  considered  favourable  in  triple  therapy.  Not  all  combinations  with  other 
antiretroviral  medicinal  products,  especially  with  protease  inhibitors,  have  been  studied.  However 
taking into account that the current medical practice in the management of HIV-infected patients fully 
advocates  the  combination  of  antiretroviral  drugs,  the  CPMP  supported  the  use  of  nevirapine  in 
combination  but  requested  the  company  to  submit  additional  data  on  the  use  of  nevirapine  with 
different combination therapy. 
Based  on  the  data  available,  nevirapine  was  shown  to  have  an  acceptable  safety  profile  despite  the 
potential cutaneous and hepatic severe adverse events occasionally reported. 
The overall risk benefit assessment ratio of nevirapine established in adults is favourable.  
In accordance with the CPMP recommendations (CPMP Points to Consider in the assessment of New 
Antiretroviral Products (CPMP/602/95 rev.1), it is in principle appropriate to quantitatively extrapolate 
from  efficacy  in  adults,  provided  that  reliable  pharmacokinetic  data  allow  for  proper  dosage 
recommendations in different age group. Data on pharmacokinetics of nevirapine have been submitted 
allowing a paediatric dosage resulting in plasma concentrations associated with efficacy and long term 
tolerability in adults. Based on the pharmacokinetics model, the administration of nevirapine based on 
body-weight dosing was preferred. Although there are no dramatic physiologic changes at the age of 8 
years old, a dosage shift at this age is proposed, with a higher recommended dose in patients under 8 
years of age. Based on the adult experience, a comparable lead-in period of 2 weeks is also proposed in 
paediatric patients. Data on the safety and tolerability data in children have been obtained mostly from 
25/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
children treated with 120 mg/m2, but additional data with the proposed dosage will be submitted. The 
safety  profile  of  nevirapine  in  children  is  almost  the  same  compared  to  adults  although 
granulocytopaenia  was  more  commonly  reported  in  children.  Results  from  completed  and  ongoing 
studies  will  be  submitted  once  available  to  confirm  the  clinical  benefit  of  nevirapine  in  children, 
including in combination therapy 
Overall  the  bioequivalence  between  the  oral  suspension  administered  with  the  syringe  and  the 
marketed  200  mg  tablets  has  been  demonstrated  and  therefore  an  approval  of  the  suspension  for  the 
adult could be recommended.  The use of oral suspension in adults is of particular interest for adults 
who have difficulties to swallow tablets. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The CPMP considered that, on the basis of the current efficacy and safety data, the overall risk/benefit 
profile  for  Viramune  appears  favourable  when  used  in  combination  therapy.  The  CPMP  therefore 
recommended  on  22  October  1997  the  granting  for  a  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional 
circumstances for Viramune 200 mg tablets. This opinion was based on the beneficial effect of 400 mg 
of  Viramune  administered  daily  in  combination  therapy  in  adult  patients  with  HIV  disease,  as 
measured by changes in biological markers and by clinical endpoints. The applicant agreed to provide, 
as  requested  by  the  CPMP,  a  clinical  programme  for  an  expanded  investigation  of  Viramune  in 
combination therapy.   
Based on the clinical data obtained in children, the Committee recommended on 25  March  1999 the 
granting  for  a  marketing  authorisation  for  Viramune  50  mg/5  ml  oral  suspension  for  use  in  antiviral 
combination treatment in HIV-infected adults and children over 2 months of age patients.  
Based  on  the  additional  data  provided  as  part  of  the  specific  obligations  to  be  fulfilled,  the  CPMP 
considered that the benefit/risk profile of Viramune remained favourable. During its deliberation on 25 
April 2002, the CPMP advised a conversion of the authorisations under exceptional circumstances into 
full Marketing Authorisations, for both tablets and oral suspension. 
The approved indication for Viramune 200 mg tablets and 50 mg/5 ml oral suspension is:  
“Nevirapine is indicated as part of combination therapy for the antiviral treatment of HIV-1 infected 
patients with advanced or progressive immunodeficiency”. 
26/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
