22 July 2010 
EMA/562111/2010  
Human Medicines Development and Evaluation  
CHMP variation assessment report 
Type II variation EMEA/H/C/000419/II/0097 
Invented name/name: 
Viread 
International non-proprietary name/common 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
name: 
Indication summary (as last approved): 
treatment of HIV-1 infection and hepatitis B 
Marketing authorisation holder: 
Gilead Sciences International Ltd. 
infection 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information  
of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<XXX XXXX> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction 
Viread was first approved in EU for the treatment of HIV-infected adults in February 2002. Viread was 
then approved in EU for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) in adults in April 2008. Tenofovir is 
also  a  component  of  the  fixed-dose  combination  tablets  Truvada  (emtricitabine  200  mg/tenofovir  DF 
300  mg  tablet)  and  Atripla  (efavirenz  600  mg/emtricitabine  200  mg/tenofovir  DF  300  mg  tablet), 
which  are  indicated  for  treatment  of  HIV-1  infection.  The  cumulative  worldwide  patient  exposure  to 
tenofovir  DF  since  first  marketing  approval  of  Viread  (for  HIV-1  infection)  in  the  US  on  26  October 
2001 to 31 March 2009 is estimated to be 2.4 million patient-years of treatment. 
Approval of Viread for CHB was based primarily on data from 266 adult subjects with hepatitis B early 
antigen positive (HBeAg+) compensated CHB and 375 subjects with hepatitis B early antigen negative 
(HBeAg−)  compensated  CHB  who  enrolled  in  the  similarly  designed  pivotal  studies  GS-US-174-0102 
(HBeAg− subjects) and GS-US-174-0103 (HBeAg+ subjects). 
The  application  for  the  CHB  indication  also  included  supportive  safety  data,  blinded  with  regard  to 
treatment  assignment,  from  Study  GS-US-174-0108,  which  is  a  double-blind,  active-controlled  study 
of tenofovir DF in subjects with CHB and decompensated liver disease. No efficacy data from this study 
have been presented previously. 
A total of 112 subjects have been treated in this study, and the planned primary analyses of safety and 
efficacy,  based  on  the  first  48  weeks  of  treatment  with  tenofovir  DF,  the  fixed-dose  combination  of 
emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF,  or  entecavir,  have  been  conducted  and  are  presented  in  this  submission. 
This study is ongoing with maximum planned treatment duration of 168 weeks. 
On  the  basis  of  these  study  results,  the  MAH  is  seeking  an  extension  of  the  current  indication  for 
Viread to include the treatment of patients with decompensated chronic hepatitis B. 
The proposed wording for section 4.1 is as follows: 
Hepatitis B infection: 
“Viread is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with: 
• 
compensated  liver  disease,  with  evidence  of  active  viral  replication,  persistently  elevated  serum 
alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  levels  and  histological  evidence  of  active  inflammation  and/or 
fibrosis. 
•  decompensated liver disease. 
This  indication  is  based  on  histological,  virological,  biochemical  and  serological  responses  mainly  in 
adult  nucleoside  naïve  patients  with  HBeAg  positive  and  HBeAg  negative  chronic  hepatitis  B  with 
compensated  liver  function  and  in  adults  with  chronic  hepatitis  B  with  decompensated  liver 
function”. 
The  principal  clinical  data  provided  to  support  the  efficacy  and safety  of  TDF  in  treatment  of  patients 
with decompensated liver disease were provided from the results of the MAH sponsored study GS-US-
174-0108. 
To  allow  assessment  of  the  latest  Viread  safety  information  a  CIOMS  listing  of  all  post  marketing 
events  from  01  October  2008  to  17  November  2009,  and  clinical  trial  data  from  ongoing  hepatitis  B 
studies was included in the application. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 2/34
 
 
 
 
In accordance with Article 8 (ca) and (g) of Directive 2001/83EC, as amended, an update to the Viread 
Environmental Risk Assessment was provided. In addition, in accordance with Article 8 (ia) of Directive 
2001/83  EC,  as  amended,  and  the  CHMP’s  “Guideline  On  Risk  Management  Systems  for  Medicinal 
Products  For  Human  Use  (EMEA/CHMP/96268/2005)”,  in  relation  to  significant  changes  to  an 
indication,  an  update  to  the  Gilead  Pharmacovigilance  System  and  an  update  to  the  Viread  Risk 
Management Plan were submitted. 
1.2.  Environmental Risk Analysis 
In the context of this variation, the MAH has provided an update of the environmental risk assessment 
(ERA). This ERA includes data already submitted in the context of the variation (EMEA/H/C/419/II/75) 
to  extend  the  therapeutic  indication  of  Viread  to  the  treatment  of  chronic  hepatitis  B  patients  with 
compensated  liver  disease.  These  data  included  a  Phase  I  estimation  of  exposure  and  results  and 
reports from Phase II environmental fate and effect analysis studies. 
Trier A: Fate and effect analysis 
For the purposes of this application to extend the current chronic hepatitis B therapeutic indication for 
tenofovir DF to include treatment of chronic hepatitis B in patients with decompensated liver disease, 
amended calculations for Phase II Tier PEC Refinement and Outcome of Tier A fate and effect analysis 
have been provided.  
The  outcome  of  Tier  A  Fate  and  effects  analysis  calculations  (Predicted  Environmental 
Concentration/Predicted  No  Effect  Concentration  ratios)  have  been  reviewed,  and  the  values  for 
tenofovir  DF  remain  substantially  less  than  1  based  on  use  for  all  indications.  The  current  data 
indicates that tenofovir DF is of low risk to the environment. 
Based  on  available  data  the  statements  already  presented  in  Product  information  are  considered 
appropriate: 
SmPC:  ‘Any  unused  product  or  waste  material  should  be  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  local 
requirements.’ 
Package  Leaflet:  ‘Medicines  should  not  be  disposed  of  via  wastewater  or  household  waste.  Ask  your 
pharmacist  how  to  dispose  of  medicines  no  longer  required.  These  measures  will  help  to  protect  the 
environment.’ 
1.3.  Design, Methods & Demographics of Study GS-US-174-0108 
Study  GS-US-174-0108  was  a  Phase  2,  Double-Blind,  Multi-centre,  Randomised  Study  comparing 
Tenofovir  Disoproxil  Fumarate,  Emtricitabine  Plus  Tenofovir  Disoproxil  Fumarate  and  Entecavir  in  the 
Treatment of Chronic Hepatitis B Subjects with Decompensated Liver Disease and in the Prevention of 
Hepatitis B Recurrence Post-Transplantation, conducted in 39 sites (including 17 sites in Europe, 13 in 
North  America  and  9  in  Asia)  from  4  April  2006  (1st  subject  screened)  to  5  December  2008  (Last 
subject observation for 48 weeks report).  
Methods 
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  and  compare  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  tenofovir  disoproxil 
fumarate  (tenofovir  DF),  emtricitabine  plus  tenofovir  DF,  and  entecavir  in  the  treatment  of  chronic 
hepatitis B (CHB) subjects with decompensated liver disease.  
The secondary objectives were: 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 3/34
 
 
 
• 
To  provide  a  preliminary  assessment  of  the  relative  efficacy  of  tenofovir  DF,  emtricitabine  plus 
tenofovir DF, and entecavir in the treatment of CHB subjects with decompensated liver disease 
• 
To  determine  the  probability  of  remaining  free  from  hepatitis  B  virus  (HBV)  recurrence  post-
transplantation in each treatment group 
• 
To determine the incidence and patterns of drug resistance mutations in HBV deoxyribonucleic acid 
(DNA) polymerase in each treatment group 
Treatments 
Subjects were randomised in a 2:2:1 ratio to one of the following treatment groups: 
• 
• 
TDF 300 mg + FTC/TDF placebo + ETV placebo once daily (QD) (n=40) 
FTC 200 mg/TDF 300 mg + TDF placebo + ETV placebo QD (n=40) 
•  ETV 0.5 mg or 1 mg + TDF placebo + FTC/TDF placebo QD (n=20) 
The ETV dose was 0.5 mg for subjects with < 6 months of prior lamivudine exposure and no history of 
lamivudine resistance mutations, and 1 mg for subjects with ≥ 6 months of prior lamivudine exposure 
and/or a history of lamivudine resistance mutations. 
Study medication was administered on an empty stomach (at least 2 hours after a meal and 2 hours 
before the next meal) at approximately the same time each day. 
Randomization was stratified by Child-Pugh-Turcotte (CPT) score (≤ 9 or 10–12) and prior lamivudine 
exposure  coupled  with  history  of  lamivudine  resistance  mutations  (<  6  months  of  prior  lamivudine 
exposure  and  no  history  of  lamivudine  resistance  mutations  or  ≥  6  months  of  prior  lamivudine 
exposure and/or a history of lamivudine resistance mutations). 
Subjects  were  switched  from  their  existing  anti-HBV  regimen  to  their  randomly  assigned  regimen  at 
baseline (i.e., the last dose of the pre-study regimen was taken on the day before the baseline visit). A 
maximum randomised treatment duration of 168 weeks is planned. Since Study GS-174-0108 enrolled 
subjects with decompensated liver disease, it was necessary to provide early intervention strategies in 
the case that profound viral suppression was not expeditiously achieved. For this reason subjects with 
a decrease in plasma HBV DNA from baseline of less than 2 log10 copies/ml and plasma HBV DNA > 
10,000 copies/ml (or plasma HBV DNA > 1,000 copies/ml for subjects who entered the study with HBV 
DNA < 10,000 copies/ml) at Week 8 had the option to start open-label emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir 
DF 300 mg fixed-dose combination and continue in the study. Subjects with a virologic breakthrough 
(≥  1  log10  copies/ml  increase  from  nadir  in  plasma  HBV  DNA  on  2  consecutive  determinations)  or 
plasma  HBV  DNA  that  remains  above  400  copies/ml  (confirmed)  at  or  after  24  weeks  of  treatment 
could  be  unblinded  at  the  investigator’s  discretion  for  selection  of  alternative  anti-HBV  therapy  that 
may  include  open-label  FTC/TDF  fixed-dose  combination.  Study  drug  discontinuation  with  treatment-
free follow-up was contraindicated due to the potential risk of exacerbation of hepatitis in the setting of 
low hepatic reserve which could lead to further decompensation. 
Study Participants  
Adult subjects (18–69 years of age) with CHB (defined as positive serum HBsAg for at least 6 months, 
anti-HBV  therapy  for  at  least  6  months,  or  medical  records  indicating  chronic  HBV  or  negative  HBc 
IgM) and : 
• 
decompensated liver disease (CPT score of 7–12 or a past history of CPT score ≥ 7 and any CPT at 
screening ≤ 12),  
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 4/34
 
 
 
• 
plasma HBV DNA ≥ 1000 copies/ml (determined by PCR Roche Cobas Taqman 48 assay, LLQ:169 
copies/ml),  
•  ALT < 10 × ULN 
Subjects  must  have  had  Clcr  ≥  50  ml/min,  no  HIV/HCV/HDV  coinfection,  no  serologies  evidence  of 
hepatocellular  carcinoma  (based  on  α-fetoprotein  and  imaging  results);  no  history  of  solid  organ  or 
bone marrow transplant; no prior use of TDF or ETV; < 24 months of prior adefovir dipivoxil exposure; 
no history of variceal bleeding, hepatorenal syndrome, Grade 3 or Grade 4 hepatic encephalopathy, or 
spontaneous  bacterial  peritonitis  within  60  days  of  the  screening  visit;  and  <  Grade  2  hepatic 
encephalopathy at screening. 
Of note, among the reasons for removal of subjects from therapy were: 
• 
Permanent  study  drug  discontinuation  was  required  for  confirmed  (within  72  hours)  increases  in 
serum  creatinine  of  ≥  0.5  mg/dL  over  baseline  if  no  other  reason  for  the  increased  creatinine 
existed or if the value did not return to within 0.3 mg/dL of baseline. 
• 
Permanent discontinuation was required for any calculated creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min (dose 
adjustment was required for creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min). 
• 
If  ALT/AST  values  were  >  2  ×  baseline  and  >  10  ×  ULN  and  bilirubin  was  confirmed  at  >  2.5  × 
ULN, prothrombin time at > 1.5 × ULN, or lactate was increased (symptomatic and > 2 × ULN or 
asymptomatic  and  >  4  ×  ULN),  the  investigator  was  to  consider  discontinuing  study  medication 
and initiating alternative approved therapy. 
Planned: N=100 (40 each in the TDF and FTC/TDF groups, 20 in the ETV group) 
Analysed: N=112 (45 each in the TDF and FTC/TDF groups, 22 in the ETV group) 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoint: 
Coprimary study endpoints evaluated included the following: 
• 
Tolerability  failure,  defined  as  permanent  discontinuation  of  study  drug  due  to  a  treatment-
emergent  AE;  any  subject  who  temporarily  discontinued  study  due  to  an  AE  but  did  not  restart 
study drug was considered a tolerability failure 
•  Confirmed  increase  in  serum  creatinine  of  ≥  0.5  mg/dL  from  baseline  or  confirmed  serum 
phosphorus of < 2.0 mg/dL 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints  
The secondary efficacy endpoints included the following: 
•  Subjects with plasma HBV DNA < 400 and < 169 copies/ml by visit 
•  Change from baseline in HBV DNA by visit 
•  Absolute and change from baseline in MELD score by visit 
• 
In  the  subset  of  subjects  undergoing  liver  transplantation,  time  to  recurrence  of  hepatitis  B, 
defined  as  2  consecutive  plasma  HBV  DNA  levels  ≥  400  copies/ml  or  2  consecutive  HBsAg+) 
results (listed only because of the small number of transplants) 
•  Subjects with normal ALT and normalised ALT (of subjects with elevated ALT at baseline) by visit 
•  ALT by visit 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 5/34
 
 
 
•  Change from baseline in ALT by visit 
•  Subjects with increase or decrease in CPT score of ≥ 2 points by visit 
•  Absolute and change from baseline in CPT score by visit 
•  HBeAg loss and HBeAg seroconversion by visit (for subjects who were HBeAg+ at baseline) 
•  HBsAg loss and HBsAg seroconversion by visit 
•  Deaths and time to death through Week 48 (listed only because of the small number of deaths) 
• 
Incidence  and  patterns  of  HBV  DNA  polymerase  mutations  potentially  associated  with  drug 
resistance 
Resistance surveillance 
Resistance  surveillance  was  conducted  to  identify  changes  within  the  HBV  polymerase  gene  from 
subject  viral  isolates  with  detectable  persistent  viral  replication  in  the  presence  of  study  drug 
treatment.  Data  available  for  this  report  included  baseline  viral  genotypes  (A–H),  and  presence  of 
mutations  associated  with  known  drug  resistance  at  baseline.  Also  included  were  changes  within  the 
HBV polymerase from baseline for viremic subjects at Week 48 (or early discontinuation at Week 24 or 
later),  for  subjects  experiencing  virologic  breakthrough,  and  for  subjects  switching  from  blinded 
treatment with tenofovir DF to open-label treatment with emtricitabine/tenofovir DF.  
In vitro phenotypic analysis of tenofovir and emtricitabine susceptibility was attempted on serum HBV 
samples obtained from subjects who developed an emerging amino acid substitution at conserved-sites 
of  the  HBV  polymerase  and  for  subjects  with  virologic  breakthrough  on  tenofovir  DF.  Phenotypic 
analysis  was  also  to  be  attempted  for  amino  acid substitutions  that  developed  at  polymorphic  sites if 
the change was observed in more than one subject. 
Sample size 
The planned enrolment was 100 subjects: 40 subjects treated with tenofovir DF 300 mg, 40 subjects 
treated with emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir DF 300 mg, and 20 subjects treated with entecavir 0.5 mg 
or  1  mg  QD.  The  actual  enrolment  was  112  subjects.  Calculations  of  95%  confidence  intervals  were 
repeated  given  the  actual  enrolment  of  45,  45,  and  22  subjects 
in  the  tenofovir  DF, 
emtricitabine/tenofovir DF, and entecavir groups, respectively. 
Statistical methods 
Efficacy 
All efficacy data were summarised descriptively with no statistical hypothesis testing. 
Two  analyses  based  on  the  RAT  (randomised-and-treated)  analysis  set  were  provided.  The  first 
considered  any  subject  who  discontinued  randomised  study  drug  (including  switch  to  open-label 
emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF)  as  a  failure  (NC/S=F).  The  second  analysis  considered  any  subject  who 
discontinued from the study (noncompleter) as a failure (NC=F). 
Data  collected  on  a  subject  who  received  a  liver  transplant  were  not  included  in  the  evaluation  of 
secondary  efficacy  endpoints  after  transplant  date,  and  the  subject  was  considered  censored  (i.e., 
removed from the numerator and the denominator) for each visit at and after the time of transplant. 
Data from these subjects were included in the safety analyses. 
In  general,  values  for  missing  data  were  not  imputed.  For  the  analyses  of  categorical  efficacy 
endpoints,  the  subject  was  considered  a  failure  for  these  endpoints  if  the  subject  discontinued  study 
drug for any reason and had missed the visit at the time point of interest. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 6/34
 
 
 
Safety 
Two  analyses  of  the  RAT  analysis  set  were  performed  for  the  coprimary  endpoints  using  3  treatment 
groups (TDF, FTC/TDF, and ENT) and 2 treatment groups (TDF and FTC/TDF combined; and ENT). The 
first  analysis  was  strictly  by  treatment  group  using  all  data  collected  through  Week  48.  The  second 
analysis  was  also  by  treatment  group,  using  all  data  collected  during  the  double-blind  portion  of  the 
trial and censoring all data collected after a subject switched to open-label emtricitabine/tenofovir DF. 
Because  of  the  small  number  of  subjects  meeting  the  coprimary  endpoints,  the  originally  proposed 
methods  (Kaplan-Meier  methods  and  stratified  log-rank  tests)  were  replaced  by  standard  calculations 
of proportions, and the difference in proportions between the tenofovir DF-containing arms (combined) 
and the entecavir arm was evaluated using a Fisher exact test. 
Subjects  who  received  liver  transplants  were  censored  from  the  analyses  of  efficacy  endpoints,  but 
were included in all safety analyses. 
Generating  inferential  statistics  for  comparisons  among  treatment  groups  was  limited  to  the  two 
coprimary safety endpoints. No adjustments for multiple comparisons were made. 
Interim Analysis and Data Monitoring 
An interim analysis of blinded safety data to support regulatory submissions was conducted, including 
data  from  the  first  50  subjects  through  03  July  2007  (1  to  337  days  of  treatment).  This  interim, 
blinded tabulation had no impact on the future conduct or continuation of the study. 
This  Week  48  analysis  is  the  first  analysis  conducted  with  unblinded  data.  Results  are  presented  by 
treatment group, but the subjects, investigators, and Gilead staff not directly involved with statistical 
analysis  and  report  preparation  (including  all  individuals  with  direct  contact  with  the  study  sites)  will 
remain blinded to individual treatment assignments through the end of the study. Of note, in the text 
of this report, individual subject numbers and their treatment assignments were not provided side-by-
side (thus avoiding any unintentional unblinding) but were available in the data listings. 
Interim  analyses  are  planned  every  48  weeks  through  the  end  of  the  study  (Week  168).  Since 
inferential  statistics  for  comparisons  among  treatment  groups  are  not  planned,  discussion  of 
adjustment for multiple comparisons is not necessary. 
An  external  independent  multidisciplinary  Data  Monitoring  Committee  (DMC)  reviewed  the  progress 
and safety for this study. The DMC examined the safety profile of the study in order to protect subject 
welfare and preserve study integrity, and provided recommendations as needed regarding study design 
and  conduct.  Given  that  the  control  treatment  (i.e.,  entecavir)  has  regulatory  approval  for  the 
treatment of compensated CHB, there is no intention of discontinuing the study prematurely if results 
favour another treatment arm. While the DMC is asked to advise Gilead regarding future conduct of the 
study, including possible early study termination, Gilead retains final decision-making authority on all 
aspects of the study. The DMC met five times in 2007–2008, and confirmed agreement with continuing 
the study. 
Results 
Patient disposition 
The planned sample size was 100 subjects; 196 subjects were screened to enroll the planned sample 
size. A total of 112 subjects were successfully screened and randomised, and all were treated with at 
least one dose of study drug (45 subjects received TDF, 45 subjects received FTC/TDF, and 22 subjects 
received entecavir). 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 7/34
 
 
 
Table 1.  Subject Disposition 
Demographic and Baseline characteristics (RAT population) 
Overall,  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  were  similar  between  the  treatment  groups.  The 
majority  of  subjects  (83.9%)  were  male  and  either  Asian  (53.6%)  or  white  (42.0%),  and  the  mean 
(SD) age was 51 (10.0) years. 
Table 2.  Demographic and Baseline characteristics (RAT population) 
The mean (SD) baseline HBV DNA level was 5.91 (1.686) log10 copies/ml. Subjects had been positive 
for HBV for a mean of 12.7 (14.07) years, 63.4% had an ALT value above the ULN at baseline, and the 
majority were HBeAg– (65.2%). 
The  median  CPT  score  at  baseline  was  7  in  all  groups,  and  ranged  from  5  to  12.  Overall,  64.3%  of 
subjects  had  CPT  scores  ≥  7  at  baseline,  while  the  remaining  35.7%  of  subjects  had  a  baseline  CPT 
score  <  7.  The  percentage  of  subjects  with  CPT  scores  ≥  7  at  baseline  was  highest  in  the 
emtricitabine/tenofovir DF group (71.1%) and was 62.2% and 54.5% in the tenofovir DF and entecavir 
groups, respectively. A total of 96 subjects (38, 40, and 18 in the tenofovir DF, emtricitabine/tenofovir 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 8/34
 
 
 
 
 
DF, and entecavir groups, respectively) had CPT scores ≤ 9 at screening, and 16 subjects (7, 5, and 4 
subjects, respectively) had CPT scores > 9. 
Table 3.  Baseline Disease Characteristics  
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 9/34
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on Design, Methods & Demographics 
So far only two drugs have been granted an indication for the treatment of decompensated patients: 
lamivudine and adefovir. These are not parts of the comparator arms.  
Due  to  their  potent  virologic  activity  and  high  genetic  barrier,  tenofovir  and  entecavir  nowadays 
supersede  existing  therapeutic  options.  Despite  not  being  granted  any  MA  for  the  treatment  of 
decompensated  patients,  they  are  already  recommended  in  the  therapeutic  guidelines  whereas 
lamivudine  and  adefovir  are  nowadays  regarded  as  inadequate  options  due  to  their  lower  genetic 
barrier and the pejorative impact of resistance in this particularly vulnerable population.  
By  using  the  most  potent  drugs,  the  risk  of  suboptimal  virological  efficacy  in  this  population  was 
limited,  specially  taking  into  account  that  lamivudine  and  adefovir  had  already  shown  efficacy  in  this 
vulnerable population.  
Therefore  this  study  is  mainly  aimed  at  responding  to  the  need  for  safety  data  as  underlined  in  the 
therapeutic guidelines for safely using tenofovir in decompensated patients. The primary endpoint then 
relies on safety. This study is to be regarded as “confirmatory” for the efficacy.  
The  FTC/TDF  arm  is  important  to  provide  data  on  the  use  of  FTC/TDF  in  the  treatment  of  HBV 
infection,  considering  the  wide  off  label  use  (supported  by  the  therapeutic  guidelines)  of  FTC/TDF  in 
HIV-HBV  co-infected  patients  whereas  the  current  indication  of  FTC/TDF  is  so  far  confined  to  the 
treatment of the HIV infection.  
Although a 2-arms study (comparing TDF and ETV) would have allowed larger sample size and drawing 
more robust conclusion, it is acknowledged that the use of bi-therapy in patients with decompensated 
CHB  is  of  interest,  since  viral  breakthrough  and  emergence  of  resistance  can  be  potentially  life 
threatening in this vulnerable population of patients with decompensated liver disease. 
The  primary  endpoint  of  this  study  relies  on  safety.  Efficacy  is  part  of  secondary  endpoints.  This 
approach  can  be  regarded  as  reasonable.  There  is  no  predefined  hypothesis  on  this  safety  endpoint. 
This  is  a  descriptive  analysis,  the  MAH  only  indicate  what  would  be  the  precision  of  the  estimation 
depending of the value of the point estimate. However, it is acknowledged that a much larger sample 
size  would  have  been  required  whatever  the  tested  hypothesis  which  would  have  seriously  challenge 
the feasibility of the study given the targeted population. 
The  MAH  could  have  predetermined  the  sample  size  to  be  targeted  to  achieve  adequate  precision  of 
the estimation. The MAH has indeed taken the risk of being unable to interpret the efficacy results (by 
not  taking  into  account  variability  in  the  treatment  response  and  by  not  predefining  adequate 
estimation for the response rate) whereas this study was to be regarded as confirmatory for efficacy. 
A relatively high rate of screening failure was reported in this study. 71-73% of patients completed 48 
weeks on randomised treatment in TDF and ETV arms whereas they were 89% in the FTC/TDF arm. A 
similar proportion of patients had switched to open-label FTC/TDF in the TDF and ETV arms (11-14%). 
The proportion of patients who prematurely discontinued study was also nearly comparable in the TDF 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 10/34
 
 
 
 
and  ETV  arms  (18%  and  14%  respectively).  It  is  worth  noting  that  fewer  patients  prematurely 
withdrew from the study (7%) or switched to open-label FTC/TDF (4%) in the FTC/TDF arm. 
A  total  of  6  subjects  (TDF:  3,  FTC/TDF:  2,  ETV:  1)  discontinued  study  prematurely  due  to  safety 
reason, 4 of these subjects died. Two additional subjects had AEs leading to discontinuation and died 
but  other  primary  reason  for  discontinuation  was  reported  by  the  investigators.  A  total  of  6  patients 
died in this study (2 in each arm). All deaths were considered to be the result of disease progression 
and/or sepsis and were considered as unrelated to study drugs. Overall, the mortality rate reported at 
week  48  in  this  small  study  (4-9%)  appears  lower  than  the  rate  reported  in  previous  study  in 
decompensated  population,  and  might  reflect  to  some  extent  the  exclusion  of  patients  with  very 
advanced disease (variceal bleeding, grade 3-4 hepatic encephalopathy…). 
The  study  population  was  a  mix  population  of  HBeAg+  and  HBeAg-  patients;  65%  of  those  were 
HBeAg-.  When  compared  to  the  baseline  characteristics  of  patients  with  compensated  CHB  in  pivotal 
Viread  studies,  patients  were  older  (as  expected  for  a  population  of  patients  with  advanced  disease). 
More patients were Asian and baseline HBV DNA was 1-3 log lower in this study (patients being under 
treatment at the time of inclusion).  
About  half  of  the  population  had  previous  lamivudine  experience  and  20%  had  previous  adefovir 
experience in this study. Imbalance in the proportion of patients with CPT score ≥ 7 is observed, with 
more  patients  in  the  FTC/TDF  arm  having  more  advanced  disease.    The  population  enrolled  in  this 
study might be somewhat more representative of an EU population (where fewer patients are expected 
to be diagnosed at a very late stage of the disease). 
1.4.  Clinical Efficacy 
Except  for  analyses  of  ALT  normalization,  CPT  decrease  ≥  2  points,  and  HBeAg  loss  and  sero-
conversion,  all  analyses  were  based  on  the  RAT  analysis  set,  consisting  of  all  subjects  who  were 
randomised and received at least one dose of study medication. 
Table 4.  Population Analysis Sets 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Secondary  efficacy  analyses  described  in  this  report  include  subject  data  from  the  first  48  weeks  of 
treatment.  
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 11/34
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5.  Key Efficacy Results at Week 48 (GS-US-174-0108) 
No  subjects  had  HBsAg  loss  or  seroconversion  to  anti-HBs  (excluding  subjects  who  underwent  liver 
transplantation) through Week 48 of the study. 
CPT Scores 
There were no large differences overall among the treatment groups in the proportion of subjects with 
a  2-point  decrease  in  CPT  score  during  the  first  48  weeks  of  the  study,  particularly  considering  the 
variability  of  the  results  (wide  95%  CIs).  At  Week  48,  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  a  2-point 
decrease 
from  baseline 
in  CPT  was  25.9%,  48.0%,  and  41.7% 
in 
the 
tenofovir  DF, 
emtricitabine/tenofovir DF, and entecavir groups, respectively. 
Time to Death or HBV Recurrence Following Transplantation 
Because of the small number of events, time-to-event analyses were not conducted.  
Six  subjects  died  through  Week  48,  including  2  subjects  in  each  treatment  group.  All  6  deaths  were 
considered unrelated to study medication. The immediate causes of death and time to death were the 
following: 
•  Tenofovir  DF  group:  hepatic  encephalopathy  and  hepatorenal  syndrome  (Day  12);  end  stage  liver 
disease (Day 64) 
•  Emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF  group:  liver  failure  secondary  to  cirrhosis  and  sepsis  from  bacterial 
peritonitis/bowel perforation (Day 12); hepatic liver failure (Day 119) 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 12/34
 
 
 
 
• Entecavir group: disease deterioration/exacerbation of hepatitis B (Day 29); septic shock (Day 122) 
With  the  possible  exception  of  an  early  flare  precipitating  decompensation  in  one  subject  in  the 
entecavir group, no relationship to treatment or time to death is evident from these data. 
Six subjects, all on tenofovir-containing regimens, received liver transplants during the first 48 weeks 
of  the  study.  The  transplant  was  pre-planned  in  5  of  the  6  subjects,  and  the  study  medication  was 
interrupted. One subject (Subject 4002) received a liver transplant following hospitalization for ascites. 
Resistance analysis 
Patients with Resistance at baseline 
Among  the  subjects  randomised  to  the  tenofovir  DF  group,  6  subjects  (all  with  previous  lamivudine 
experience  only)  had  lamivudine-associated  resistance  mutations  (rtM204V/I  ±  rtL180M),  1  subject 
(with  previous  lamivudine  and  adefovir  dipivoxil  experience)  had  a  mutation  associated  with  adefovir 
resistance (rtA181V), and 2 subjects (with previous lamivudine and adefovir dipivoxil experience) had 
mutations associated with resistance to both drugs. No resistance mutations were detected at baseline 
among the 4 subjects with only adefovir dipivoxil experience. 
Table 6.  Percentage  of  Treatment-Experienced  Subjects  with  Resistance  Mutations  at  Baseline  (GS-
US-174-0108) 
The  majority  of  the  subjects  who  entered  the  study with  mutations  associated  with  either lamivudine 
or  adefovir  were  shown  to  have  HBV  DNA  levels  <  400  copies/ml  at  their  last  on-tenofovir  DF 
monotherapy time point. 
Year 1 Resistance surveillance 
Serum  samples  for  13  viremic  subjects  out  of  the  112  subjects  in  the  study  (12%  of  the  total  RAT 
population) were evaluated as a component of the Year 1 resistance surveillance for this study. 
Overall, 8 patients randomised to the TDF arm were included in Year 1 Resistance analysis. Genotypic 
data from paired baseline and on treatment HBV isolates were available for 6/8 patients with HBV DNA 
> 400 copies/ml.  Among them, 2 had conserved-site change (4.4%).  
No amino acid substitutions associated with resistance to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate were identified 
in these isolates. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 13/34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on Efficacy  
An undetectable viral load (LOQ 400 copies/ml) was achieved for around 70% of patients receiving the 
monotherapy with either tenofovir or entecavir. A marked trend (>15%) for higher response rate was 
observed in the FTC/TDF arm (which might even be underestimated, given the trend for more severe 
patients at baseline in the combination arm). This virological difference is parallel with the proportion 
of patients with ALT normalization (around 20%).  
However,  this  study  was  not  designed  (powered)  to  compare  Viread  and  Truvada  efficacy  which 
precludes any conclusion in this field. Even though the data are suggestive of a superiority of Truvada 
over  Viread  the  data  derived  from  this  study  are  too  limited  to  enable  reliable  comparison  between 
Viread  and  Truvada.    The  MAH  was  further  requested  to  address  this  issue  and  commited  to  discuss 
the  possibility  of  demonstrating  the  superiority  of  Truvada  versus  Viread  in  the  therapeutic 
management of patients with decompensated liver disease. (see letter of undertaking). 
Following CHMP request the MAH provided results according to the HBe Ag positive/negative status and 
viral  genotype  (A-D).  These  reanalysis  further  substantiate  the  efficacy  of  Viread  and  Truvada 
whatever the HBeAg status or viral genotype.  
Of  note,  6  subjects  received  liver  transplants  (1  in  TDF  arm,  4  in  FTC/TDF  arm  and  1  in  open-label 
FTC/TDF).  None  experienced  recurrence  (defined as  HBV  DNA >  400  copies/ml  or  confirmed  HBsAg+ 
result), however, follow-up is limited at this stage.  
Of  note,  no  HBeAg  seroconversion  is  observed  in  the  entecavir  arm.  However,  the  sample  size  was 
very limited and only 7 patients were HBeAg positive. 
In  addition  to  the  virological  and  biochemical  endpoints,  a  difference  in  favour  of  FTC/TDF  is  also 
observed on the change in CPT score from baseline. 
The  change  in  CPT  score  from  baseline  was  around  1  point  at  week  48  in  each  treatment  arms  and 
subjects with a 2-point decrease from baseline in CPT was 25.9%, 48.0%, and 41.7% in the tenofovir 
DF,  emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF,  and  entecavir  groups,  respectively.  The  difference  across  the  groups 
was not statistically significant. It is not know why tenofovir performed less well than entecavir at this 
endpoint. 
Regarding the Time to Death or HBV Recurrence Following Transplantation analysis, the trend in favour 
of  the  FTC/TDF  arm,  as  previously  discussed,  is  even  more  noticeable  in  patients  with  viral  strains 
harbouring mutation of resistance to lamivudine. 
Overall,  8  patients  randomised  to  the  TDF  arm  were  included  in  Year  1  Resistance  analysis.  Among 
them,  2  had  conserved-site  change  (4.4%).  In  comparison,  2%  of  patients  treated  with  TDF  had 
conserved site change at week 48 or 96 in Viread clinical studies (including 690 patients mostly naïve 
but  also  some  LAM  or  ADV-experienced  patients).  Phenotypic  evaluation  of  conserved  site  change 
showed  that  mutation  that  emerged  under  TDF  (S85P,  V27A)  were  not  associated  with  phenotypic 
resistance  in  vitro:  replication  incompetent  for  S85P,  EC50  almost  unchanged  (1.3  fold  increase)  for 
V27A.  Furthermore,  phenotypic  assessment  of  the  3  subjects  with  breakthrough  in  the  absence  of 
conserved-site change (2 in TDF arm, 1 in FTC/TDF arm) showed that viral isolates remained sensitive 
to TDF or FTC in vitro. 
Overall,  similarly  to  patients  with  compensated  CHB,  no  mutation  associated  with  resistance  to  TDF 
was identified at week 48 in patients with decompensated disease in this study. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 14/34
 
 
 
1.5.  Clinical Safety 
Patient exposure 
The duration of exposure to randomised treatment through week 48 is presented in the table below: 
Table 7.  Duration of Exposure to Randomised Treatment through Week 48 (RAT Analysis Set, GS-US-
174-0108) 
Five  patients  in  the  TDF  group,  2  patients  in  the  FTC/TDF  group  and  3  patients  in  the  ETV  group 
switched  to  open-label  FTC/TDF  exposure  prior  to  week  48.  The  mean  open-label  exposure  by 
randomised  treatment  arm  was  195.2,  99.5  and  206  days  in  the  TDF,  FTC/TDF  and  ETV  arms 
respectively. 
Co-primary safety endpoint: 
The co-primary endpoints are the percentage of subjects with tolerability failure, defined as permanent 
discontinuation  of  the  study  drug  due  to  a  treatment-emergent  AE  (including  temporary 
discontinuations if the study drug is not restarted), and the percentage of subjects with confirmed (two 
consecutive) ≥ 0.5 mg/dL increases from baseline in serum creatinine or confirmed serum phosphorus 
values < 2.0 mg/dL. 
Table 8.  The results for the co-primary safety endpoint are summarised in the table below: 
% patient with 
TDF 
FTC/TDF 
TDF or 
ETV 
(N=45) 
(N=45) 
FTC/TDF 
(N=22) 
(N=90) 
P-value c 
TDF and 
FTC/TDF 
combined 
versus ETV 
3 (6.7%)  2 (4.4%) 
5 (5.6%) 
2 (9.1%)  0.622 
4 (8.9%)  3 (6.7%) 
7 (7.8%) 
1 (4.5%)  1.000 
Tolerability failurea 
Confirmedb increase in 
creatinine of ≥ 0.5 mg/dL 
from baseline OR  confirmed 
serum phosphorus values < 
2.0 mg/dL. 
a A tolerability failure is defined as permanent discontinuation of study drug due to a treatment-emergent AE. Any 
subject who temporarily discontinued study due to an AE but did not restart study drug was considered a tolerability 
failure. 
b A confirmed value is defined as a value recorded on two consecutive visits, or the last value on drug, post-
baseline 
c P-values are from a two-sided Fisher exact test 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 15/34
 
 
 
 
 
Tolerability failure 
The  narratives  for  the  seven  patients  who  met  the  criteria  for  tolerability  failure  (including  five  cases 
with fatal outcome) are summarised thereafter.  
TDF group 
Subject 2007 (DEATH) concerned a 54-year-old Asian female with a CPT score of 11 at baseline. She 
had  been  treated  with  lamivudine  for  3  years,  which  was  discontinued  due  to  virologic  failure,  liver 
cirrhosis,  and  gastrointestinal  bleeding  secondary  to  bleeding  fundal  varices.  The  patient’s  hepatic 
function  had  worsened  before  starting  study  medication.  During  the  two  first  months  after 
randomization  in  the  TDF  arm,  liver  function  tests  showed  aggravation  of  hepatic  decompensation 
(increased  disorientation,  elevated  liver  function  tests,  pulmonary  congestion,  signs  of  acute  renal 
failure attributed to sepsis, along with decreases in hematologic parameters, electrolyte abnormalities, 
and  metabolic  acidosis.  Study  drug  was  discontinued,  and  the  subject  was  taken  off  life  support  and 
died from end-stage liver disease on Day 64. AEs listed as resulting in study drug discontinuation were 
renal  failure,  ascites,  coagulopathy,  sepsis,  urinary  tract  infection,  contusion,  metabolic  acidosis, 
respiratory failure, and hypotension.  
Subject  3003:  a  48-year-old  male  patient  developed  acute  renal  failure  as  a  complication  5  days 
following liver transplantation. According to the narrative, “the patient was discontinued from the study 
so  that  his  HBV  medications  could  be  titrated  relative  to  renal  function”.  The  events  resolved  one 
month later 
Subject 3005 (DEATH) was a 63-year-old white female with a CPT score of 11 at baseline. Study drug 
(TDF)  was  interrupted  because  of  AEs  of  hepatic  encephalopathy  and  hepatorenal  syndrome.  Study 
drug was never resumed. The subject  died 2  days  after the last dose of study drug. The investigator 
noted  that  since  screening  for  the  study,  the  subject’s  encephalopathy  had  worsened  and  increased 
rapidly. 
FTC/TDF group 
Subject 1052 (DEATH) concerned a 48-year-old man with a medical history of alcoholic cirrhosis and a 
CPT score of 10 at baseline. On Day 5 of FTC/TDF study therapy, he developed ascites and fever. The 
subject’s sister reported that the subject was started on another type of anti-hepatitis B medication. In 
the following days, the patient’s medical conditions were aggravated and the subject died on Day 11 of 
liver  failure  secondary  to  alcoholic  liver  cirrhosis  and  sepsis  from  spontaneous  bacterial  peritonitis  or 
bowel perforation. 
Subject 2034: This subject in the FTC/TDF group discontinued on Day 2 because of a Grade 2 allergic 
reaction with severe skin itching, headache, runny rose and insomnia that occurred on the first day of 
dosing. These symptoms were responsive to corticoid and study drug discontinuation 
ETV group 
Subject 3002 (DEATH) was 55-year-old Asian male with a CPT score of 11 at baseline, and a history of 
cirrhosis,  decompensated  liver  disease  within  the  past  6  months  and  ascites.  During  the  first  two 
weeks  after  starting  study  medication,  the  patient  was  hospitalised  twice  since  his  medical  condition 
aggravated. He had jaundice and deshydrated. Then, he developed hepatorenal syndrome and hepatic 
encephalopathy. Study medications were discontinued and the subject was put on open label entacavir 
due to his renal impairment. His condition continues to deteriorate and the patient died due to hepatic 
liver cirrhosis contributed by acute renal failure. 
Subject 4005 (DEATH) described a 53-year-old female patient with a CPT score of 9 at  baseline. The 
patient  died  due  to  septic  shock  secondary  to  a  necrotizing  fasciitis  with  infection  by  Vibrio  vulnificus 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 16/34
 
 
 
after  being  bitten  by  a fish. AEs leading  to  discontinuation  were  wound infection,  melena,  necrotizing 
fasciitis and septic shock. All were considered unrelated to study drug. 
No  subjects  who  switched  to  open-label  emtricitabine/tenofovir  DF  had  tolerability  failure  through 
Week 48. 
Confirmed changes in Serum Creatinine or Phosphorus: 
The  table  below  summarizes  the  percentage  of  patients  with  confirmed  changes  in  renal  parameters 
across treatment groups: 
Table 9.  Percentage of Subjects with Confirmed Changes in Renal Parameters (RAT Analysis Set, GS-
US-174-0108) 
Six  subjects  (4  in  TDF  arm,  1 in  FTC/TDF  arm  and  1  in ETV  arm  )  had  confirmed  increases  in  serum 
creatinine. All six also had confirmed creatinine clearance of < 50 ml/min.  
Among  those,  one  TDF-treated  patient  had  confirmed  changes  in  both  creatinine  and  phosphorus,  as 
well  as  confirmed  calculated  creatinine  clearance  <  50  ml/min,  and  was  discontinued  at  the 
investigator’s  discretion  due  to  overall  poor  health  and  noncompliance  with  ongoing  SAEs  of  hepatic 
encephalopathy and bacterial peritonitis. 
Two additional FTC/TDF-treated subjects had confirmed serum phosphorus values < 2mg/dl. 
One  subject  who  switched  from  double-blind  TDF  to  open-label  FTC/TDF  at  Week  8  had  confirmed 
increases  in  serum  creatinine  (Week  24)  and  confirmed  creatinine  clearance  <  50  ml/min  at  Weeks 
16–24. None of the other subjects with confirmed changes in renal parameters had switched to open-
label FTC/TDF. 
The percentage of subjects with confirmed changes in renal parameters was also analysed by baseline 
CPT  stratum  (≤  9  or  >  9).  Most  of  the  confirmed  increases  in  serum  creatinine  and  the  confirmed 
creatinine clearance values < 50 ml/min occurred in subjects with high baseline CPT scores (all but one 
subject in the tenofovir DF group and one subject in the entecavir group were in the CPT > 9 stratum). 
All  events  of  confirmed  serum  phosphorus  <  2.0  mg/dl  occurred  in  subjects  with  low  baseline  CPT 
scores (≤ 9). 
Adverse events 
The  table  below  summarizes  adverse  events  through  week  48  in  each  treatment  arms  and  in  the 
FTC/TDF open label phase. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 17/34
 
 
 
 
Table 10.  Overall Summary of Adverse Events through Week 48 (RAT Analysis Set, GS-US-174-0108) 
DB = double blind; OL = open label 
a Subjects are counted once only for each category at the maximum severity (based on the GSI-modified NIAID 
common severity grading scale). 
The table below displays adverse events through week 48 according to CPT stratum 
Table 11.  Overall  Summary  of  Adverse  Events  through  Week  48  by  CPT  Stratum  (RAT  Analysis  Set, 
GS-US-174-0108) 
Most frequent AEs 
The most frequently reported AEs were: 
In TDF group: nausea (20%), insomnia (17.8%), ascites (15,6%), oedema peripheral (15.6%), prurit 
(15.6%), abdominal pain, abdominal pain upper, dizziness, vomiting (all at 13.3%), pyrexia (11.1%) 
In the FTC/TDF group: anaemia (13.3%), pruritus (13.3%), abdominal pain upper (13.3%) and 
pyrexia (11.1%) 
In the ETV group: diarrhoea (22.7%), ascites (22.7%) oedema peripheral (18.2%), cough (18.4%), 
headache (18.4%) 
In the open label FTC/TDF: no AE preferred term was reported in more than 1 subject. 
Drug-related AEs: 
In  TDF  group:    8  patients  (17.8%)  experienced  15  drug-related  AES:  nausea  (n=4)  and  rash  (n=2). 
Other drug-related AEs were reported in only subject each and included pruritus, abdominal distension, 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 18/34
 
 
 
 
 
abdominal  pain,  blood  CPK  increased,  blood  amylase  increased,  lipase  increased,  asthenia,  myalgia 
and dizziness. 
In  the  FTC/TDF  group:  7  patients  (15.6%)  experienced  11  drug-related  AEs:  rash  (n=2),  blood  CPK 
increased  (n=2).  Other  drug-related  AEs  were  reported  in  only  subject  each  and  included  pruritus, 
nausea, vomiting, glucose urine present, hypersensitivity, hyperamylasemia and gynecomastia 
In the ETV group: 2 patients (9.1%) experienced one drug-related AEs each: rash and asthenia  
In the OL FTC/TDF: there were two patients (20.0%) who experienced 4 AEs : rash, rash pruritic and 
diarrhoea.  Moreover,  one  patient  in  the  ETV  group  had  an  AE  of  Grade  3  psoriasis  during  open-label 
treatment  with  FTC/TDF  that  was  considered  related  to  study  drug  with  onset  two  months  following 
switch and was unresolved at the time of the Week 48 visit. 
Deaths 
There  were  6  deaths  occurring  through  Week  48  of  the  study  and  within  30  days  of  the  last  dose  of 
study drug, including 2 subjects in each treatment group. All had CPT>10 at baseline.  
Five  of  them  met  the  criteria  of  tolerability  failure  and  are  previously  described  in  the  corresponding 
section  (see  above  for  futher  details).  In  the  TDF  arm,  two  patients  (2007  and  3005)  died  from 
progression  of  liver  disease.  In  the  FTC/TDF  arm,  one  patient  (1052)  died  due  to  complications  of 
underlying liver disease with sepsis and bacterial peritonitis. In the ETV arm, one patient (3002) died 
due to hepatic liver cirrhosis contributed by acute renal failure. The remaining ETV-treated subject died 
from complications of necrotizing fasciitis (4005). 
The sixth fatal case (subject 3010) concerned a 36-year-old male patient who died from liver failure, 
hepatic  encephalopathy  and  hepatorenal  syndrome  while  receiving  FTC/TDF  therapy.  This  patient  did 
not  meet  the  criteria  for  tolerability  failure,  because  study  drug  was  not  permanently  discontinued 
(interruption for 4 days), and the subject was receiving study drug (FTC/TDF) at the time of death. The 
investigator assessed that AEs resulting in death were related to study disease. 
One  additional  subject  (Subject  1042)  died  11  weeks  after  discontinuation  of  study  drug  treatment 
(TDF)  at  week  32.  None  of  the  AEs  for  this  subject  (worsening  of  ascites,  hernia  inguinalis 
incarcerated,  decreased  creatinine  clearance)  were  considered  by  the  investigator  as  resulting  in 
permanent  discontinuation.  The  primary  reason  for  discontinuation  on  the  study  termination  page  is 
investigator’s  discretion  due  to  patient’s  overall  poor  health  and  noncompliance  (53.82%  adherence 
overall). 
Furthermore,  seven  additional  deaths  (3  in  the  TDF  arms,  3  in  the  FTC/TDF  arm  and  one  in  the  ETV 
arm) have occurred in this study after the Week 48 visit.  
TDF arm: 
Subject 1010: the death certificate of this 49-year-old male patient receiving TDF therapy for 2.5 years 
listed the immediate cause of death as status epilepticus with liver failure as the underlying cause and 
hyperammonaemia as leading up to the cause of death. Gastrointestinal bleeding was also a significant 
condition contributing to the subject’s death. 
Subject  1029  this  49-year-old  male  patient  developed  hepatocellular  carcinoma  approximately  11 
months  after  commencing  TDF.    Eight  months  later,  he  died  due  to  spontaneous  bacterial  peritonitis 
with septic shock and hepatoma as a consequence of HCC. 
Subject 2010 (67-year-old male patient) had a Child-Pugh score increase > 2, gastrointestinal bleeding 
and HCC approximately two years after commencing study drug. 
FTC/TDF arm: 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 19/34
 
 
 
Subject  1016  died  from  completed  suicide  (it  was  noted  that  the  patient  had  lost  his  job  and  was 
worried about his health) 
Subject  1034:  this  39-year-old  male  patient  with  high  medical  history  died  du  to  septic  shock  with 
suspected esophageal variceal bleeding and suspected necrotizing fasciitis. 
Subject  1036:  this  54-year-old  male  patient  died  13  months  after  commencing  study  drug  due  to 
cardiovascular collapse. No autopsy was performed. No additional information was provided. 
ETV arm: 
Subject 2020: this 68-year-old male patient experienced 15 months after commencing study drug right 
middle cerebral artery infarction and basal ganglion haemorrhage. He died in the following days.  
Serious adverse events 
SAEs  were  reported  in  24.4%  (n=11),  42.2%  (n=19),  and  22.7%  (n=5)  of  subjects  in  the  TDF, 
FTC/TDF,  and  ETV  groups,  respectively.  Gastrointestinal  disorders,  infections  and  infestations,  and 
hepatobiliary  disorders  were  the  most  frequently  reported  SAEs,  and  included  ascites  in  6  subjects; 
abdominal pain in 5 subjects; sepsis and chronic hepatic failure in 4 subjects each; bacterial peritonitis 
and hepatorenal syndrome in 3 subjects each. 
SAEs  occurred  more  frequently  among  subjects  with  high  baseline  CPT  scores,  consistent  with  the 
greater severity of disease in these subjects.  
Two  SAEs  (abdominal  pain  and  allergic  reaction  in  1  subject  each)  were  considered  related  to  study 
drug (TDF and FTC/TDF). 
Discontinuations and Dose Interruptions or Modifications Due To Adverse Events 
Two  subjects  in  each  treatment  groups  were  discontinued  from  the  study  because  of  AEs.  All  except 
the  allergic  reaction  were  considered  unrelated  to  study  drug.  All  were  tolerability  failures  and  are 
discussed in the corresponding section. 
Adverse events resulting in dose modification or temporary interruption of study drug were reported in 
11.1%, 20.0%, and 9.1% of subjects in the TDF, FTC/TDF, and ETV groups, respectively. AEs resulting 
in  interruption  or  dose  modification  in  more  than  1  subject  included  hepatorenal  syndrome  and 
creatinine  renal  clearance  decreased  in  3  subjects  each  (2  in  FTC/TDF  group  and  one  in  TDF  group), 
and abdominal pain, ascites, and esophageal varices hemorrhage in 2 subjects each. 
Adverse events of interest 
Renal events and renal laboratory parameters 
Renal and urinary disorders were reported in 6 subjects randomised in the TDF arm (13.3%), 1 subject 
in  the  TDF/FTC  arm  (2.2%)  and  4  subjects  in  the  ETV  arm  (18.2%).  Moreover,  two  subjects 
experienced  renal  and  urinary  disorders  during  the  FTC/TDF  open-label  phase  (20%).  None  of  these 
AES were considered related to study drug by the investigator.  
Other AEs related to renal function (displayed in other SOCs than renal and urinary disorders) included 
creatinine renal clearance decreased in 3 subjects (2 subjects in the TDF group and 1 in the FTC/TDF 
group), and blood creatinine increased in 2 subjects in the FTC/TDF group. None of these events were 
considered related to study drug by the investigator. 
Among  TDF-treated  patients,  one  subject  had  three  separate  AEs  of  reduced  creatinine  clearance 
(including one which was also an SAE). All three resulted in temporary dose reduction to a once a day 
schedule  (at  Week  8  [42  ml/min],  Week  16  [31  ml/min;  Grade  3],  and  Week  28  (40  ml/min).  This 
subject was discontinued at the investigator’s discretion at Week 32, due to noncompliance. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 20/34
 
 
 
The mean changes from baseline in serum creatinine and phosphorus at Week 48 were near zero in all 
three groups. Calculated creatinine clearance decreased slightly in all three groups (mean [SD] change 
from baseline at Week 48 of −0.7 [9.83], –3.1 [12.08], and −4.3 [14.38] ml/min in the TDF, FTC/TDF, 
and ETV groups, respectively). 
Hepatic events 
Hepatobiliary  disorders  were  reported  in  8  subjects  (17.8%)  in  the  TDF  group,  8  (17.8%)  in  the 
FTC/TDF group, and 3 subjects (13.6%) in the ETV Group: 
The  most  commonly  reported  hepatobiliary  adverse  reactions  were  chronic  hepatic  failure  in  4 
subjects, cholelithiasis, hepatorenal syndrome, and hyperbilirubinemia in 3 subjects each and  hepatic 
function abnormal in 2 subjects. 
Other  AEs  related  to  hepatic  function (displayed  in  other  SOCs than  Hepatobiliary  disorders)  included 
hepatitis  B  in  1  subject  in  the  ETV  group,  who  died  from  disease  deterioration/exacerbation  of 
hepatitis,  hepatic  encephalopathy  (4  subjects  in  the  TDF  group,  2  subjects  in  the  FTC/TDF  DF  group, 
and  1  in  the  ETV  group),  hypoalbuminemia  (2  subjects  in  the  TDF  group),  and  hepatocellular 
carcinoma (3 subjects in the TDF group and 1 subject each in the FTC/TDF and ETV groups, i.e 4.4% in 
TDF-containing regimens and 4.5% in the ETV arm). 
None of these AEs were considered related to study drug by the investigator. 
Liver transplants 
Six  subjects  (4  in  the  FTC/TDF  group  and  2  in  the  TDF  group)  received  liver  transplants  during  the 
study.    For  5  of  the  6  subjects,  the  transplant  was  preplanned,  and  study  drug  was  interrupted.  For 
one subject in the TDF arm (Subject 4002), the transplant was not preplanned and the study drug was 
not interrupted. Except for one subject, the other subjects remained on study through Week 48. 
On-treatment hepatic exacerbations: 
Table 12.  Incidence of On-Treatment Hepatic Exacerbations through Week 48 (GS-US-174-0108) 
DB = double blind; OL = open label 
a The All TDF (DB + OL) column refers to subjects receiving a treatment containing TDF (all double-blind TDF, 
FTC/TDF, or open-label FTC/TDF). 
b On-treatment hepatic exacerbation/flare defined as (1) elevation of ALT > 2 × baseline and > 10 × ULN or (2) 
confirmed abnormal laboratory parameters suggestive of worsening hepatic function (abnormal bilirubin ≥ 2 mg/dL 
above baseline, abnormal PT ≥ 2 sec above baseline, INR ≥ 0.5 over baseline, abnormal albumin ≥ 1 g/dL decrease 
from baseline, or elevated serum lactate levels > 2 × ULN) along with any confirmed ALT elevation (i.e., 1-grade 
shift or 2 × previous value). 
Bone events 
Bone events (fracture, osteoporosis, osteopenia and osteoarthritis) were reported in 2 patients in the 
TDF arm (4.4%), 2 patients in the FTC/TDF arm (4.4%) and 1 patient in the ETV arm (4.5%). No bone 
events occurred during the FTC/TDF open-label phase. 
Two patients experienced bone fractures during the course of the study: 
One patient (subject 2027 in the TDF arm) experienced facial bones fracture, radius fracture, and wrist 
fractures (all SAEs) that were due to trauma (resulting from a fall).  
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 21/34
 
 
 
 
Subject  1022  (in  the  TDF/FTC  arm),  who  had  a  mild  foot  fracture  at  Week  21  had  Grade  1  elevated 
alkaline phosphatase at screening. 
According  to  the  MAH,  no  other  abnormalities  in  calcium,  phosphorus,  alkaline  phosphatase,  or  renal 
laboratory parameters was reported in these patients. 
Other AEs related to bone included osteoarthritis in 2 subjects, bone pain in 1 subject, osteopenia in 1 
subject, and hyperphosphatemia in 1 subject. None of these AEs were considered related to study drug 
or resulted in dose modification, interruption, or discontinuation of treatment. 
Laboratory findings 
Table 13.  Grade  3  and  4  Treatment-Emergent  Laboratory  Abnormalities  Occurring  through  Week  48 
(RAT Analysis Set, GS-US-174-0108) 
DB = double blind; OL = open label 
a GSI-modified NIAID common severity grading scale 
b Subjects are counted only once for each laboratory test at the maximum severity. 
c The All TDF (DB + OL) column refers to subjects receiving a treatment containing TDF (all double-blind TDF, 
FTC/TDF or open-label FTC/TDF). 
Discussion on Safety  
Final  48  week  efficacy  and  safety  from  study  GS-US-174-0108  were  submitted  to  support  the 
extension  of  indication  of  Viread  (TDF)  in  the  treatment  of  CHB  patients  with  decompensated  liver 
disease. A total of 112 subjects were included in this study including 45 each in the TDF and FTC/TDF 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 22/34
 
 
 
 
 
groups  and  22  in  the  ETV  group.  The  overall  study  duration  is  168  weeks  but  only  the  results  of  the 
first 48 weeks of treatment were presented and discussed in this report.  
Safety data represented the key elements of the evaluation of this study. Co-primary study endpoints 
included  tolerability  failure,  defined  as  permanent  discontinuation  of  study  drug  due  to  a  treatment-
emergent AE and renal laboratory abnormalities defined as confirmed increase in serum creatinine of > 
0.5mg/dl from baseline or confirmed serum phosphorus of < 2.0mg/dl. 
The  48  week  results  showed  that  the  proportion  of  subjects  experiencing  the  co-primary  safety 
endpoints as defined above were similar across treatment groups. No meaningful difference was shown 
at  this  time  regarding  these  specific  criteria.  The  majority  of  reports  of  tolerability  failure  and 
confirmed  renal  laboratory  abnormalities  occurred  in  subjects  who  had  a  high  CPT  score  at  baseline, 
which is consistent with the greater severity of the disease in these subjects. 
A  total  of  seven  cases  with  fatal  outcome  were  reported  in  the  48  week  CSR,  including  3  subjects  in 
the TDF group and 2 subjects of each of the FTC/TDF and ETV treatment groups. In all but one cases, 
patients had CPT>10 at baseline. All of them were related to the worsening of hepatic decompensation 
rather  than  to  the  study  drug.  Moreover,  seven  additional  cases  were  reported  after  week  48  (3  in 
each of TDF and FTC/TDF arms and one in ETV arm), leading to a total of 14 deaths during the study. 
Overall, it seems that more deaths could be attributed to liver failure in the TDF group compared with 
the  two  other  groups.  This  observation,  probably  related  to  chance  is  hardly  interpretable  due  to  the 
difference of samples in TDF-containing regimens and ETV regimen and the overall small sample sizes 
in this study. Specific attention should be paid to this issue in future reports. In the next submission, 
the MAH should continue to provide narratives of fatal cases and specify in each narrative the patients’ 
baseline CPT score. 
Patients  with  decompensated  liver  disease  are  expected  to  be  at  higher  risk  of  experiencing  renal 
disorders, which is the key safety profile of TDF. Therefore, special caution has been brought to renal 
toxicity and renal laboratory parameters reported in this dossier. Compared with safety data from the 
pivotal  studies  0102  and  0103  in  CHB  patients  with  compensated  liver  disease,  a  slightly  higher 
proportion  of  subjects  with  confirmed  renal  laboratory  abnormalities  were  reported  in  patients  with 
hepatic  decompensation,  which  was  not  unexpected  in  this  difficult-to-treat  population  of  patients. 
Furthermore,  no  signal  towards  a  higher  risk  of  serious  renal  events  including  renal  tubulopathy  or 
related events was observed based on the final 48 week results. Globally, in all reported cases, renal 
impairment was related to the progression of the underlying liver disease rather than a direct toxicity 
of  the  drug.  No  marked  difference  was  seen  regarding  this  issue  between  the  three  treatment  arms. 
However  data  is  limited  in  HBV  infected  patients  with  decompensated  liver  disease  and  who  have  a 
Child Pugh Turcotte (CPT) score >9. 
Similar conclusions can be drawn for the proportion of subjects experiencing hepatobiliary disorders or 
other hepatic events. In most of cases, hepatic events were reported as a consequence of worsening of 
liver failure. A total of six subjects had liver transplant (4 in the FTC/TDF arm and 2 in the TDF group). 
As a result of the above concerns a paragraph was included alerting prescribers that there are limited 
data  on  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  tenofovir  disoproxil  fumarate  in  HBV  infected  patients  with 
decompensated  liver  disease  and  who  have  a  Child  Pugh  Turcotte  (CPT)  score  >  9.    These  patients 
may  be  at  higher  risk  of  experiencing  serious  hepatic  or  renal  adverse  reactions.  Therefore, 
hepatobiliary and renal parameters should be closely monitored in this patient population. 
Regarding bone events, which is also an issue under close scrutiny for Viread, no worrying data appear 
to be derived from the 48 week safety results of study 0108. However, the analysis of bone events was 
overall inconclusive due to the low number of subjects in each treatment arms and the short treatment 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 23/34
 
 
 
duration  for  the  time  being.  Further  data  regarding  this  issue  are  expected  in  future  clinical  study 
reports.  
Based  on  the  final  48  week  results  from  study  0108,  the  safety  profile  of  TDF  appears  globally 
acceptable in subjects with liver decompensation and consistent with what expected in this population 
of  patients  characterised  by  a  greater  severity  of  the  liver  disease.  No  new  safety  concern  has 
emerged. However, the degree of reassurance on the tenofovir safety that could be derived from this 
study is significantly hampered by the limited number of patients with CPT score >9, all the more that 
patients with tolerability failure and renal events are over-represented in this strata.  
Further safety data on the final study report are expected to substantiate the safety profile of the drug 
in patients with decompensated liver disease with longer treatment duration.  
1.6.  Risk Management 
The  MAH  provided  an  updated  RMP:  version  8.1,  dated  July  2010,  which  is  summarised  in  table  14 
(below). 
Table 14. 
Summary Table of the EU Risk Management Plan 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine 
and additional) 
Important Identified Risks 
Renal Toxicity 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical studies 
(GS-99-903, ACTG 
5202) 
Observational studies 
(EuroSIDA Cohort 
Study, 
GS-US-104-0353) 
Planned nonclinical 
studies on intestinal 
phosphate absorption 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities (routine and additional) 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Statements in Section 4.2 of Viread SmPC: 
Tenofovir is eliminated by renal excretion and the exposure to tenofovir 
increases in patients with renal dysfunction. There are limited data on 
the safety and efficacy of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in patients with 
moderate and severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
< 50 ml/min) and long term safety data has not been evaluated for mild 
renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50-80 ml/min). Therefore, in 
patients with renal impairment tenofovir disoproxil fumarate should only 
be used if the potential benefits of treatment are considered to outweigh 
the potential risks. Dose interval adjustments are recommended for 
patients with creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min. 
Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50–80 ml/min): Limited 
data from clinical studies support once daily dosing of tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate in patients with mild renal impairment. 
Moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30–49 ml/min): 
Administration of 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate) every 
48 hours is recommended based on modelling of single-dose 
pharmacokinetic data in non-HIV and non-HBV infected subjects with 
varying degrees of renal impairment, including end-stage renal disease 
requiring haemodialysis, but has not been confirmed in clinical studies. 
Therefore, clinical response to treatment and renal function should be 
closely monitored in these patients. 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) and 
haemodialysis patients: Adequate dose adjustments cannot be applied 
due to lack of alternative tablet strengths, therefore use in this group of 
patients is not recommended. If no alternative treatment is available, 
prolonged dose intervals may be used as follows: 
Severe renal impairment: 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate) may 
be administered every 72–96 hours (dosing twice a week). 
Haemodialysis patients: 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate) may 
be administered every 7 days following completion of a haemodialysis 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 24/34
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine 
and additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities (routine and additional) 
session*. 
These dose adjustments have not been confirmed in clinical studies. 
Simulations suggest that the prolonged dose interval is not optimal and 
could result in increased toxicity and possibly inadequate response. 
Therefore clinical response to treatment and renal function should be 
closely monitored. 
* Generally, once weekly dosing assuming three haemodialysis sessions 
per week, each of approximately 4 hours duration or after 12 hours 
cumulative haemodialysis. 
No dosing recommendations can be given for non-haemodialysis 
patients with creatinine clearance < 10 ml/min. 
Warnings in Section 4.4 of Viread SmPC: 
Co-administration of other medicinal products: Viread should not be 
administered with any other medicinal products containing tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate (Truvada or Atripla). 
Renal function: Renal safety with tenofovir has only been studied to a 
very limited degree in patients with impaired renal function (CrCl < 80 
ml/min). 
It is recommended that creatinine clearance is calculated in all patients 
prior to initiating therapy with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and renal 
function (creatinine clearance and serum phosphate) is also monitored 
every four weeks during the first year, and then every three months. In 
patients at risk for renal impairment, including patients who have 
previously experienced renal events while receiving adefovir dipivoxil, 
consideration should be given to more frequent monitoring of renal 
function. 
Patients with creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min, including haemodialysis 
patients: There are limited data on the safety and efficacy of tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate in patients with impaired renal function. Therefore, 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate should only be used if the potential 
benefits of treatment are considered to outweigh the potential risks. In 
patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 
ml/min) use of tenofovir is not recommended. If no alternative treatment 
is available, the dosing interval must be adjusted and renal function 
should be closely monitored. 
If serum phosphate is < 1.5 mg/dl (0.48 mmol/l) or creatinine clearance 
is decreased to < 50 ml/min in any patient receiving tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate, renal function should be re-evaluated within one week, 
including measurements of blood glucose, blood potassium and urine 
glucose concentrations. Consideration should also be given to 
interrupting treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in patients 
with creatinine clearance decreased to < 50 ml/min or decreases in 
serum phosphate to < 1.0 mg/dl (0.32 mmol/l). 
Use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate should be avoided with concurrent 
or recent use of a nephrotoxic medicinal product (e.g. aminoglycosides, 
amphotericin B, foscarnet, ganciclovir, pentamidine, vancomycin, 
cidofovir or interleukin-2). If concomitant use of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate and nephrotoxic agents is unavoidable, renal function should 
be monitored weekly. 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate has not been clinically evaluated in 
patients receiving medicinal products which are secreted by the same 
renal pathway, including the transport proteins human organic anion 
transporter (hOAT) 1 and 3 or MRP 4 (e.g. cidofovir, a known 
nephrotoxic medicinal product). These renal transporter proteins may 
be responsible for tubular secretion and in part, renal elimination of 
tenofovir and cidofovir. Consequently, the pharmacokinetics of these 
medicinal products which are secreted by the same renal pathway 
including transport proteins hOAT 1 and 3 or MRP 4 might be modified 
if they are co-administered. Unless clearly necessary, concomitant use of 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 25/34
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine 
and additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities (routine and additional) 
these medicinal products which are secreted by the same renal pathway 
is not recommended, but if such use is unavoidable, renal function 
should be monitored weekly. 
Bone effects: In HIV infected patients, in a 144-week controlled clinical 
study that compared tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with stavudine in 
combination with lamivudine and efavirenz in antiretroviral-naïve 
patients, small decreases in bone mineral density of the hip and spine 
were observed in both treatment groups. Decreases in bone mineral 
density of spine and changes in bone biomarkers from baseline were 
significantly greater in the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment 
group at 144 weeks. Decreases in bone mineral density of hip were 
significantly greater in this group until 96 weeks. However, there was no 
increased risk of fractures or evidence for clinically relevant bone 
abnormalities over 144 weeks.  
Bone abnormalities (infrequently contributing to fractures) may be 
associated with proximal renal tubulopathy. If bone abnormalities are 
suspected then appropriate consultation should be obtained. 
Osteomalacia and myopathy listed in Section 4.8 of Viread SmPC: 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: 
Not known: rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and 
infrequently contributing to fractures), muscular weakness, myopathy 
The following adverse reactions, listed under the body system headings 
above, may occur as a consequence of proximal renal tubulopathy: 
rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and infrequently 
contributing to fractures), hypokalaemia, muscular weakness, myopathy 
and hypophosphataemia. These events are not considered to be causally 
associated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate therapy in the absence of 
proximal renal tubulopathy. 
Update of labeling as appropriate 
Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Educational initiatives; Communications via published literature and 
conference presentations. Update of educational program as appropriate 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 26/34
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine 
and additional) 
Important Identified Risks Continued 
Post-treatment hepatic 
flares in HBV 
monoinfected and 
HIV/HBV coinfected 
patients 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Interaction with 
didanosine 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Pancreatitis 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities (routine and additional) 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Statement in Section 4.2 of Viread SmPC: 
If Viread is discontinued in patients with chronic hepatitis B with or 
without HIV co-infection, these patients should be closely monitored for 
evidence of exacerbation of hepatitis (see Section 4.4). 
Warning in Section 4.4 of Viread SmPC: 
Flares after treatment discontinuation: Acute exacerbation of hepatitis 
has also been reported in patients who have discontinued hepatitis B 
therapy. Post-treatment exacerbations are usually associated with rising 
HBV DNA, and the majority appears to be self-limited. However, severe 
exacerbations, including fatalities, have been reported. Hepatic function 
should be monitored at repeated intervals with both clinical and 
laboratory follow-up for at least 6 months after discontinuation of 
hepatitis B therapy. If appropriate, resumption of hepatitis B therapy 
may be warranted. In patients with advanced liver disease or cirrhosis, 
treatment discontinuation is not recommended since post-treatment 
exacerbation of hepatitis may lead to hepatic decompensation. 
Liver flares are especially serious, and sometimes fatal in patients with 
decompensated liver disease. 
Statement in Section 4.8 of Viread SmPC: 
In HBV infected patients, clinical and laboratory evidence of 
exacerbations of hepatitis have occurred after discontinuation of HBV 
therapy (see section 4.4). 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Warning in Section 4.4 of Viread SmPC (interaction also described in 
Section 4.5): 
Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine is not 
recommended. Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and 
didanosine results in a 40–60% increase in systemic exposure to 
didanosine that may increase the risk of didanosine-related adverse 
events. Rare cases of pancreatitis and lactic acidosis, sometimes fatal, 
have been reported. Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
and didanosine at a dose of 400 mg daily has been associated with a 
significant decrease in CD4 cell count, possibly due to an intracellular 
interaction increasing phosphorylated (i.e. active) didanosine. A 
decreased dosage of 250 mg didanosine co-administered with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate therapy has been associated with reports of high 
rates of virological failure within several tested combinations for the 
treatment of HIV-1 infection. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Pancreatitis is listed in Section 4.8 of Viread SmPC: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Rare: pancreatitis 
There is also a warning in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC regarding the 
risk of pancreatitis associated with the interaction with didanosine (see 
above). 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 27/34
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine 
and additional) 
Lactic acidosis and 
severe hepatomegaly 
with steatosis 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Lipodystrophy 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities (routine and additional) 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Warning in Section 4.4 of Viread SmPC: 
Lactic acidosis: Lactic acidosis, usually associated with hepatic 
steatosis, has been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues. The 
preclinical and clinical data suggest that the risk of occurrence of lactic 
acidosis, a class effect of nucleoside analogues, is low for tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate. However, as tenofovir is structurally related to 
nucleoside analogues, this risk cannot be excluded. Early symptoms 
(symptomatic hyperlactatemia) include benign digestive symptoms 
(nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain), non specific malaise, loss of 
appetite, weight loss, respiratory symptoms (rapid and/or deep 
breathing) or neurological symptoms (including motor weakness). Lactic 
acidosis has a high mortality and may be associated with pancreatitis, 
liver failure or renal failure. Lactic acidosis generally occurred after a 
few or several months of treatment. 
Treatment with nucleoside analogues should be discontinued in the 
setting of symptomatic hyperlactatemia and metabolic/lactic acidosis, 
progressive hepatomegaly, or rapidly elevating aminotransferase levels. 
Caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogues 
to any patient (particularly obese women) with hepatomegaly, hepatitis 
or other known risk factors for liver disease and hepatic steatosis 
(including certain medicinal products and alcohol). Patients co-infected 
with hepatitis C and treated with alpha interferon and ribavirin may 
constitute a special risk. 
Patients at increased risk should be followed closely. 
There is also a warning in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC regarding the 
risk of lactic acidosis associated with the interaction with didanosine 
(see above). 
Lactic acidosis is listed in Section 4.8 of Viread SmPC: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders: 
Rare: lactic acidosis 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Precautionary statements in Section 4.4 of Viread SmPC: 
Lipodystrophy (lipoatrophy/lipomatosis): In HIV infected patients, 
combination antiretroviral therapy has been associated with the 
redistribution of body fat (lipodystrophy). The long-term consequences 
of these events are currently unknown. Knowledge about the mechanism 
is incomplete. A connection between visceral lipomatosis and protease 
inhibitors and lipoatrophy and nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors has been hypothesised. A higher risk of lipodystrophy has 
been associated with individual factors such as older age, and with drug 
related factors such as longer duration of antiretroviral treatment and 
associated metabolic disturbances. Clinical examination should include 
evaluation for physical signs of fat redistribution. Consideration should 
be given to the measurement of fasting serum lipids and blood glucose.  
Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate. 
Tenofovir is structurally related to nucleoside analogues hence the risk 
of lipodystrophy cannot be excluded. However, 144-week clinical data 
from antiretroviral-naïve HIV infected patients indicate that the risk of 
lipodystrophy was lower with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate than with 
stavudine when administered with lamivudine and efavirenz. 
Statements in Section 4.8 of Viread SmPC: 
Combination antiretroviral therapy has been associated with 
redistribution of body fat (lipodystrophy) in HIV patients including the 
loss of peripheral and facial subcutaneous fat, increased 
intra-abdominal and visceral fat, breast hypertrophy and dorsocervical 
fat accumulation (buffalo hump). 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 28/34
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine 
and additional) 
Important Potential Risks 
Development of 
resistance during 
long-term exposure in 
HBV infected patients 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical studies 
(GS-US-174-0102, 
GS-US-174-0103, 
GS-US-174-0106, 
GS-US-174-0108, 
GS-US-174-0121) 
Tenofovir DF 
monotherapy in 
HIV/HBV coinfected 
patients 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities (routine and additional) 
In a 144-week controlled clinical study in antiretroviral-naïve patients 
that compared tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with stavudine in 
combination with lamivudine and efavirenz, patients who received 
tenofovir disoproxil had a significantly lower incidence of lipodystrophy 
compared with patients who received stavudine.  The tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate arm also had significantly smaller mean increases 
in fasting triglycerides and total cholesterol than the comparator arm. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Section 5.1 of the Viread SmPC states the following: 
Resistance: No HBV mutations associated with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate resistance have been identified.  In cell based assays, HBV 
strains expressing the rtV173L, rtL180M, and rtM204I/V mutations 
associated with resistance to lamivudine and telbivudine showed a 
susceptibility to tenofovir ranging from 0.7-  to 3.4-fold that of wild-type 
virus.  HBV strains expressing the rtL180M, rtT184G, rtS202G/I, 
rtM204V and rtM250V mutations associated with resistance to entecavir 
showed a susceptibility to tenofovir ranging from 0.6- to 6.9-fold that of 
wild-type virus.  HBV strains expressing the adefovir-associated 
resistance mutations rtA181V and rtN236T showed a susceptibility to 
tenofovir ranging from 2.9- to 10-fold that of wild-type virus.  Viruses 
containing the rtA181T mutation remained susceptible to tenofovir with 
EC50 values 1.5-fold that of wild-type virus. 
Clinical resistance: Four hundred and twenty-six HBeAg negative 
(GS-US-174-0102, n = 250) and HBeAg positive (GS-US-174-0103, 
n = 176) patients were evaluated for genotypic changes in HBV 
polymerase from baseline.  Genotypic evaluations performed on all 
patients initially randomised to the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate arm (ie 
excluding patients who received double blind adefovir dipivoxil and then 
switched to open label tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) with HBV DNA 
> 400 copies/ml at week 48 (n = 39), week 96 (n = 24) and week 144 
(n = 6) on tenofovir disoproxil fumarate monotherapy, showed that no 
mutations associated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate resistance have 
developed. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Statement and warning in Section 4.4 of Viread SmPC: 
HIV antibody testing should be offered to all HBV infected patients 
before initiating tenofovir disoproxil fumarate therapy. 
Co-infection with HIV-1 and hepatitis B: Due to the risk of development 
of HIV resistance, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate should only be used as 
part of an appropriate antiretroviral combination regimen in HIV/HBV 
co-infected patients. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Important Missing Information 
Safety in children 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical studies in 
HIV infected children 
(GS-US-104-0321, 
GS-US-104-0352) 
Clinical study in 
HBV infected 
adolescents 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Statement in Section 4.2 of Viread SmPC: 
Paediatric patients: Viread is not recommended for use in children 
below the age of 18 years due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy 
Statement in Section 4.4 of Viread SmPC: 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate has not been studied in patients under the 
age of 18. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 29/34
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Safety in pregnancy 
Safety of long-term 
exposure in HBV 
infected adults with 
compensated or 
decompensated liver 
disease 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine 
and additional) 
(GS-US-174-0115) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Epidemiological 
studies 
(Antiretroviral 
Pregnancy Registry; 
Cross-sectional study 
to assess the risk of 
mitochondrial disease 
in children exposed 
to NRTIs in utero 
[MITOC group]) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical studies 
(GS-US-174-0102, 
GS-US-174-0103, 
GS-US-174-0108) 
Safety in HBV infected 
patients with 
decompensated liver 
disease and CPT score 
> 9 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical study 
GS-US-174-0108 
Safety in patients with 
renal impairment 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical studies in 
HBV infected 
patients including 
patients with mild to 
moderate renal 
impairment 
(GS-US-174-0108, 
GS-US-174-0121, 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities (routine and additional) 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities  
Statements in Section 4.6 of Viread SmPC: 
Pregnancy 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate should be used during pregnancy only if 
the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
Given that the potential risks to developing human foetuses are 
unknown, the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in women of 
childbearing potential must be accompanied by the use of effective 
contraception. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities  
Statements in Section 4.8 of updated Viread SmPC: 
Treatment beyond 48 weeks: Continued treatment with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate for 144 weeks, in studies GS-US-174-0102 and 
GS-US-174-0103, did not reveal any new adverse reactions and no 
change in the tolerability profile (nature or severity of adverse events). 
Patients with decompensated liver disease: The safety profile of 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in patients with decompensated liver 
disease was assessed in a double-blind active controlled study 
(GS-US-174-0108) in which patients received treatment with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate (n = 45) or emtricitabine plus tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate (n = 45) or entecavir (n = 22) for 48 weeks. 
In the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment arm, 7% of patients 
discontinued treatment due to an adverse event; 9% of patients 
experienced a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of ≥ 0.5 mg/dl or 
confirmed decrease in serum phosphorus of < 2 mg/dl through week 48; 
there were no statistically significant differences between the combined 
tenofovir-containing arms and the entecavir arm. Subjects with a high 
baseline CPT score were at higher risk of developing serious adverse 
events. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma was diagnosed in 3 patients in the tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate group and two patients in the tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate group died while on study. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Statement in Section 4.4 of updated Viread SmPC: 
Liver disease:  
There are limited data on the safety and efficacy of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate in HBV infected patients with decompensated liver disease and 
who have a Child-Pugh-Turcotte (CPT) score > 9.  These patients may 
be at higher risk of experiencing serious hepatic or renal adverse 
reactions.  Therefore, hepatobiliary and renal parameters should be 
closely monitored in this patient population. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
See Renal Safety Concern regarding warnings in the Viread SmPC. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 30/34
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Safety in liver transplant 
recipients infected with 
HBV 
Safety in elderly 
patients 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine 
and additional) 
GS-US-203-0107) 
Planned clinical 
study in HBV 
infected patients with 
moderate to severe 
renal impairment 
(GS-US-174-0127) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical study 
GS-US-203-0107 in 
HBV infected 
patients post liver 
transplantation 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Safety in lactation 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities (routine and additional) 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Statement in Section 4.4 of updated Viread SmPC: 
Liver disease: Safety and efficacy data are very limited in liver 
transplant patients. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities  
Warning in Section 4.4 of Viread SmPC: 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate has not been studied in patients under the 
age of 18 or in patients over the age of 65. Elderly patients are more 
likely to have decreased renal function; therefore caution should be 
exercised when treating elderly patients with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities  
Statements in Section 4.6 of Viread SmPC: 
Lactation 
In animal studies it has been shown that tenofovir is excreted into milk. 
It is not known whether tenofovir is excreted in human milk. Therefore, it 
is recommended that mothers being treated with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate do not breast-feed their infants. 
As a general rule, it is recommended that HIV and HBV infected women 
do not breast-feed their infants in order to avoid transmission of HIV 
and HBV to the infant. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Safety in black HBV 
infected patients 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities  
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 31/34
 
 
 
Discussion on the EU RMP 
Combined  to  available  resistance  data  for  compensated  hepatic  patients  at  week  144,  the  resistance 
data for decompensated hepatic patients at 48 weeks are reassuring. 
Development of resistance in HBV infected patients remains a potential risk during long term exposure. 
The CHMP agrees with the proposed modification. 
Following  CHMP  request  the  RMP  was  modified  concerning  missing  information  as  follows:  -safety  in 
patients with decompensated liver disease should be kept in the RMP as missing information until long 
term  data  is  generated  and  -to  include  limited  safety  data  in  HBV  infected  patients  with 
decompensated liver disease and CPT score >9 and routine risk minimisation activities. 
Considering  available  clinical  data  (Study  GS-US-174-0108),  the  safety  profile  of  Viread  in  HBV 
patients with decompensated liver disease does not appear markedly different from the safety profile 
in HBV patients with compensated liver disease. 
Consequently  the  CHMP  agrees  that  the  proposed  RMP  is  suitable  for  the  new  indication.  Moreover 
current proposed pharmacovigilance plan and minimization activities are deemed sufficient.  
At  the  time  final  data  are  available  from  this  study  the  RMP  will  need  to  be  further  updated  and  the 
safety data on decompensated liver disease population needs to be further addressed.  
1.7.  Changes to the product information 
Further to the assessment of the MAH proposals to amend the Product Information and in the light of 
the assessment of the submitted data, the Product Information was revised as follows: 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Section 4.1 “Therapeutic indication”  
The indication was revised to include the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with decompensated 
liver disease. A reference in brackets was included to sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1.  
The  statement  where  the  indication  was  based  was  deleted  since  it  was  considered  misleading  given 
that  histological  responses  were  not  documented  in  study  GS-US-174-0108  and  most  patients  were 
treatment-experienced.  In  addition,  the  evidence  submitted  in  support  of  the  decompensated 
indication is quite limited when compared to data which supports compensated liver disease. 
Section 4.4 “Special warnings and precautions for use”  
A  sentence  was  added  to  inform  prescribers  that  safety  and  efficacy  data  are  very  limited  in  liver 
transplant patients. 
This section was further updated following CHMP request to include a warning underlining the limited 
safety and efficacy data available in patients with decompensated liver disease and with CPT score > 9. 
These patients may be at higher risk of experimenting serious hepatic or renal adverse reactions and 
therefore hepatobiliary and renal parameters should be closely monitored in this patient population. 
Section 4.8 “Undesirable effects” 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 32/34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  section  was  updated  following  CHMP  request  to  include  the  result  of  co-primary  safety  endpoint 
(i.e  the  rate  of  study  drug  discontinuation  in  the  TDF  arm  and  the  proportion  of  subjects  with 
confirmed  changes  in  renal  parameters  at  week  48).  Data  concerning  death  and  hepatocellular 
carcinoma in TDF-treated subjects at 48 weeks were also added to this section. 
Section 5.1 “Pharmacodynamic properties”  
This section was updated with clinical data in patients with decompensated liver disease at 48 weeks. 
The description of the outcomes of the decompensated study was tabulated following CHMP request. 
Following CHMP request a sentence was included to highlight that the data derived from this study are 
too limited to draw definitive conclusion on the comparison of tenofovir/emtricitabine versus tenofovir. 
This section was further updated with resistant data from this study. 
Annex II 
The annex II was revised to include the updated version 8.1 of the RMP 
2.  Overall Conclusion and preliminary benefit risk 
assessment 
The  MA  of  Viread  was  first  granted  for  the  treatment  of  HIV  infection  and  more  recently  for  the 
treatment  of  chronic  HBV  infection  in  patients  with  compensated  liver  disease.  The  MAH  now  applies 
for  an  extension  of  indication  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  chronic  HBV  infection  and 
decompensated liver disease.  
In  support  to  this  claim  the  MAH  has  submitted  a  Phase  2,  Double-Blind,  Multi-centre,  randomised 
Study.  This  is  a  three  arms  study  with  two  monotherapy  arms:  Tenofovir  Disoproxil  Fumarate,  and 
Entecavir  and  a  third  arm  with  the  fixed  dose  combination  of  Emtricitabine  Plus  Tenofovir  Disoproxil 
Fumarate.  
This study is ongoing with a 168 weeks follow-up. The 48 weeks data have been submitted.  
Tenofovir  and  entecavir,  due  to  their  potent  virologic  activity  and  high  genetic  barrier,  nowadays 
supersede  existing  therapeutic  options.  Despite  not  being  granted  any  MA  for  the  treatment  of 
decompensated patients, they are already recommended in the therapeutic guidelines.   
This  study  is  mainly  aimed  at  responding  to  the  need  for  safety  data  for  tenofovir  in  decompensated 
patients.  The  primary  endpoint  then  relies  on  safety.  Morever,  this  study  is  to  be  regarded  as 
“confirmatory” for the efficacy as well. 
The study comprises two coprimary safety endpoints (subject discontinuations due to tolerability failure 
and  confirmed  ≥  0.5  mg/dL  increase  in  serum  creatinine  or  decrease  in  serum  phosphorus  to  <  2.0 
mg/dL). 
As regards the efficacy results an undetectable viral load (LOQ 400 copies/ml) is achieved for around 
70% of patients receiving the monotherapy with either tenofovir or entecavir. 
A marked trend (>15%) for higher response rate was observed in the FTC/TDF arm (which might even 
be underestimated, given the trend for more severe patients at baseline in the combination arm). This 
virological  difference  is  parallel  with  the  proportion  of  patients  with  ALT  normalization  (around  20%). 
However, this study was not designed to compare Viread and Truvada efficacy. Even though the data 
are suggestive of a superiority of Truvada over Viread the data derived from this study are too limited 
to  enable  reliable  comparison  between  these  drugs.  The  MAH  was  further  requested  to  address  this 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 33/34
 
 
 
 
 
 
issue  and  committed  to  discuss  the  possibility  of  demonstrating  the  superiority  of  Truvada  versus 
Viread  in  the  therapeutic  management  of  patients  with  decompensated  liver  disease  (see  letter  of 
undertaking). 
As regards safety results patients with decompensated liver disease are expected to be at higher risk 
of  experiencing  renal  disorders,  which  is  the  key  safety  aspect  profile  of  TDF.  A  slightly  higher 
proportion  of  subjects  with  confirmed  renal  laboratory  abnormalities  were  reported  in  patients  with 
hepatic decompensation. In all reported cases, renal impairment was related to the progression of the 
underlying  liver  disease  rather  than  a  direct  toxicity  of  the  drug.  No  marked  difference  was  seen 
regarding this issue between the three treatment arms. 
Based  on  the  final  48  week  results  from  study  0108,  the  safety  profile  of  TDF  appears  globally 
acceptable in subjects with liver decompensation and consistent with what expected in this population 
of patients characterised by a greater severity of the liver disease. The safety profile of Viread in HBV 
patients with decompensated liver disease does not appear markedly different from the safety profile 
in HBV patients with compensated liver disease. No new safety concern has emerged.  
However,  the  degree  of  reassurance  on  the  tenofovir  safety  that  could  be  derived  from  this  study  is 
hampered  by  the  limited  number  of  patients  with  CPT  score  >9.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  considered 
appropriate the update of the SmPC with a warning alerting prescribers that there are limited data on 
the  safety  and  efficacy  of  tenofovir  disoproxil  fumarate  in  HBV  infected  patients  with  decompensated 
liver  disease  and  who  have  a  Child  Pugh  Turcotte  (CPT)  score  >  9.  These  patients  may  be  at  higher 
risk  of  experiencing  serious  hepatic  or  renal  adverse  reactions.  Therefore,  hepatobiliary  and  renal 
parameters should be closely monitored in this patient population. 
Combined  to  available  resistance  data  for  compensated  hepatic  patients  at  week  144,  the  resistance 
data for decompensated hepatic patients at 48 weeks are reassuring. 
The MAH has submitted a RMP. The CHMP considered that development of resistance in HBV infected 
patients  remains  a  potential  risk  during  long  term  exposure.  The  CHMP  considered  that  safety  in 
patients with decompensated liver disease should be kept in the RMP as missing information until long 
term data is generated. Furthermore, following CHMP request the RMP was modified and limited safety 
data for in HBV infected patients with decompensated liver disease and CPT score >9 and routine risk 
minimisation activities was included as missing information in the RMP. The  proposed RMP is suitable 
for the new indication. 
Further  safety  data  are  expected  from  this  study  to  substantiate  the  safety  profile  of  the  drug  in 
patients with decompensated liver disease with longer treatment duration. 
In  conclusion  based  on  the  above  data  on  safety  and  efficacy  the  CHMP  endorsed  the  extension  of 
indication to include the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with decompensated liver disease.  
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/562111/2010  
Page 34/34
 
 
 
