20 September 2012 
EMA/797671/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
VIREAD 
International non-proprietary name: TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000419/X/0105/G 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Viread 
Applicant: 
Active substance: 
International Nonproprietary 
Name/Common Name: 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Gilead Sciences International Ltd. 
Granta Park, Abington 
Cambridge CB21 6GT 
United Kingdom 
tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate) 
tenofovir disoproxil  
Nucleoside and nucleotide reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors  
(J05AF07) 
Viread is indicated in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment 
of HIV 1 infected adults over 18 years of age. 
The demonstration of benefit of Viread in HIV 1 
infection is based on results of one study in 
treatment naïve patients, including patients with a 
high viral load (> 100,000 copies/ml) and studies in 
which Viread was added to stable background 
therapy (mainly tritherapy) in antiretroviral pre-
treated patients experiencing early virological 
failure (< 10,000 copies/ml, with the majority of 
patients having < 5,000 copies/ml). 
The choice of Viread to treat antiretroviral 
experienced patients with HIV 1 infection should be 
based on individual viral resistance testing and/or 
treatment history of patients. 
Hepatitis B infection 
Viread is indicated for the treatment of chronic 
hepatitis B (see section 5.1) in adults with: 
- compensated liver disease, with evidence of active 
viral replication, persistently elevated serum 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and 
histological evidence of active inflammation and/or 
fibrosis 
- decompensated liver disease (see sections 4.4, 
4.8 and 5.1). 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Film-coated tablet and granules 
Strengths: 
123 mg, 163 mg, 204 mg, 245 mg, 33 mg/g  
Route of administration: 
Packaging: 
Package size(s): 
Oral use 
bottle (HDPE) 
3 x 30 tablets, 30 tablets and 1 x 60 g bottle 
(granules) 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 2/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
1.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 7 
1.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 7 
1.2.2. Active Substance............................................................................................. 8 
1.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 8 
1.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects............................. 11 
1.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 11 
1.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development .............................................. 12 
1.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 12 
1.3.1. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 12 
1.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 13 
1.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 13 
1.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 15 
1.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 17 
1.5.1. Dose selection .............................................................................................. 17 
1.5.2. Main study ................................................................................................... 19 
1.5.3. Conclusions on clinical efficacy ........................................................................ 29 
1.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 30 
1.7. Pharmacovigilance system................................................................................. 41 
2. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 55 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................. 56 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 3/59
 
 
 
 
 
 List of abbreviations  
AE 
ALT 
ARV 
AUC 
BMD  
CD4 
CDC 
CHMP 
Cmax  
d4T 
DXA 
EC  
EMA 
EU 
GCP  
HAART   
HBV  
HIV-1    
HLA  
ICH  
LoQ 
MAH 
MAH 
NNRTI   
NRTI  
NtRTI 
PBT  
PDCO    
PI  
PIP 
PK  
PSUR 
RMP 
RNA  
SAG 
SmPC   
TAM 
TDF  
US 
ZDV 
Adverse events  
alanine aminotransferase  
antiretroviral 
Area under the curve 
bone mineral density 
cluster determinant 4 
Centre for Disease Control and Prevention 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
maximum observed concentration of drug in plasma 
stavudine 
Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry 
European Commission  
European Medicines Agency 
European Union 
Good Clinical Practice 
Highly active antiretroviral therapy  
hepatitis B virus 
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 
Human Leukocyte Antigen 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration 
of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
List of Questions 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Marketing Authorisation Holder ( 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor  
nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor 
persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic 
Paediatric Committee 
protease inhibitor 
paediatric investigation plan  
Pharmacokinetics 
Periodic Safety Update Report 
risk management plan 
ribonucleic acid 
Scientific advisory group 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
hymidine analog-associated mutation 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF, Viread)  
United States 
zidovudine 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 4/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Tenofovir is a widely used backbone regimen in adult patients due to its virological efficacy and high 
genetic barrier. Moreover, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a once daily regimen, which is of interest 
especially in children. Given that the current backbone regimens are not only limited but also have 
limiting factors (hypersensitivity requesting HLA testing, anaemia, lipodystrophy), tenofovir represents 
an additional therapeutic option in children.  
About the product 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF, TDF) is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor 
(NtRTI).  
Viread tablets (containing 245 mg of tenofovir disoproxil as fumarate, equivalent to 300 mg tenofovir 
DF or 136 mg of tenofovir) was first approved in US (26 October 2001), EU (5 February 2002), and 
other countries worldwide for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in 
combination with other antiretroviral (ARV) medicinal products in infected adults aged 18 years and 
older.  
Viread was subsequently approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in EU (23 April 2008) and 
US. 
Following approval for use in adults, clinical development programs are being undertaken in HIV-1 and 
HBV infected paediatric subjects. In the EU, a paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Viread was agreed 
on 08 February 2010 (EMEA-000533-PIP01-08, Decision Ref. EMA/63121/2010 P/18/2010).  
In the United States (US), Viread tablets were approved for the treatment of HIV-1 infected subjects 
12 to < 18 years of age and with body weight ≥ 35 kg on 25 March 2010. In Europe, following the 
major objections raised by the CHMP, mainly driven by the lack of reassurance on the renal and bone 
toxicity of the drug in this population together with inadequate efficacy demonstration, the MAH has 
not at that time requested to extend the therapeutic indication to include treatment-experienced 
adolescents 12 to < 18 years of age and with body weight ≥ 35 kg. 
The development programme/Compliance with CHMP Guidance /Scientific 
Advice 
N/A 
Type of application and other comments on the submitted dossier 
The application relates to a new indication, addition of new strengths and a new pharmaceutical form 
and consequential changes to the Product Information. 
  HIV-1 infection and treatment in paediatric patients 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 5/59
 
 
 
 
As underlined by the applicant, the pathogenesis of HIV-1 infection and the general virologic and 
immunologic principles underlying the use of ARV therapy are similar between HIV-1 infected adults 
and HIV-1 infected paediatric patients. However, there are some important and unique issues for 
infants, children, and adolescents, including the following: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Acquisition of infection through perinatal exposure for many infected children 
In utero, intrapartum, and/or postpartum neonatal exposure to zidovudine (ZDV) and other 
ARV medications in most perinatally infected children 
Age-specific differences in cluster determinant 4 (CD4) cell counts 
Changes in pharmacokinetic parameters with age caused by the continuing development and 
maturation of organ systems involved in drug metabolism and clearance 
Differences in the clinical and virologic manifestations of perinatal HIV infection secondary to 
the occurrence of primary infection in growing, immunologically immature persons 
Special considerations associated with adherence to ARV treatment for infants, children, and 
adolescents 
Processes involved in growth and development during childhood and adolescence can affect the 
pharmacokinetics of drugs, and developmental changes associated with aging and growth are often not 
linear. Recommendations for when to initiate therapy are more aggressive in paediatric patients than 
in adults because HIV-1 disease progression is more rapid than in adults. 
The standard of care for treatment of HIV-1 infection involves the use of a combination of ARV agents, 
typically a combination of at least 3 drugs, including a non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor 
(NNRTI) or a protease inhibitor (PI) and 2 agents from the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor 
(NRTI)/NtRTI class. In recent years, new ARVs have been approved with improved safety profiles and 
convenient dosing regimens. However, based on results of controlled clinical trials, it is apparent that 
not all regimens are equivalent in terms of potency or toxicity. 
International treatment guidelines list TDF as a preferred NRTI/NtRTI in an ARV regimen for initial 
therapy in HIV-1 infected adults. Tenofovir DF is listed as a preferred NRTI/NtRTI in an ARV regimen 
for initial therapy in HIV-1 infected postpubertal or Tanner stage 4 adolescents in the US. However, 
TDF is not recommended in children in Tanner stages 1 to 3 due to lack of paediatric dosing data, an 
age-appropriate formulation, and concerns related to bone toxicity. In Europe, treatment guidelines 
indicate that TDF is not licensed for use in patients < 18 years of age, and that data on safe long-term 
use from a young age are lacking; however, the guidelines suggest that TDF can be used as first-line 
therapy in adolescents (particularly as part of a fixed-dose combination, ie, Truvada or Atripla). 
  Content of the submission 
Data are provided in this submission to support the use of new formulations of TDF: reduced-strength 
TDF tablets (150-, 200-, and 250-mg strengths) and a TDF granules formulation. Overall, the 5 
formulations/strengths (150-, 200-, 250-, and 300-mg tablets, and the granules) of TDF allow once-
daily dosing for patients aged from 2 years and weighing at least 10 kg. 
Early clinical studies of TDF in HIV-1 infected paediatric subjects were conducted in the US (GS-01-
926, n = 18 and GS-02-983, n = 12) and France (GS-01-927, n = 7). Tenofovir DF formulated as an 
aqueous suspension was found to be unpalatable in a single-dose study (Study GS-02-983). Tenofovir 
DF 75-mg strength tablets were used in Studies GS-01-926 and GS-01-927; a dose of four 75-mg 
strength tablets was shown to be bioequivalent to a single dose of the 300-mg commercial tablet 
formulation in a clinical study in healthy adults (GS-00-914). The granules formulation has been 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 6/59
 
 
 
 
developed to allow for dosing flexibility and ease of administration in small children. It can also be used 
for older subjects who are unable to swallow tablets. Tenofovir DF granules is formulated to be mixed 
with soft food (ie, food that does not require chewing) and swallowed, because TDF is known to have 
strong, long-lingering, bitter, and sour aftertastes.  
A bioequivalence study between the granules and the commercial tablet formulation in healthy adults 
(GS-US-104-0312) is provided in the current application.  
Pre-study feasibility surveys were used to identify reputable HIV paediatric clinician researchers to 
conduct Phase 3 studies (GS-US-104-0321 in subjects 12 to < 18 years of age, and Study GS-US-104-
0352 in subjects 2 to < 12 years of age). Documentation of experience in conducting HIV paediatric 
clinical studies and access to qualified facilities for bone assessments (dual-energy x-ray 
absorptiometry [DEXA] scanners) were required to be considered eligible. 
The principal pharmacokinetic, efficacy, and safety data for TDF in HIV-1 infected subjects 2 to < 12 
years of age are from an ongoing, long-term, Phase 3 clinical study sponsored by Gilead Sciences. 
Study GS-US-104-0352 is an open-label, comparator-controlled study in virologically suppressed 
subjects who were receiving a HAART regimen containing stavudine (d4T) or ZDV at study entry. 
Study GS-US-104-0352 had a randomized design to provide a controlled assessment of the efficacy 
and safety of TDF compared to d4T or ZDV, each given in combination with a background ARV 
regimen. In the TDF group, TDF granules 8 mg/kg (up to 300 mg/day) was given for those subjects 
weighing ≤ 37 kg or for those unable to swallow TDF 300-mg tablets, and TDF 300-mg tablets were 
given for those subjects weighing > 37 kg who were able to swallow the tablets. Following completion 
of the randomized treatment period, eligible subjects were given the option to participate in 2 
consecutive 96-week study extensions (collectively referred to as the extension phase) to receive 
open-label TDF for a total duration of up to 240 weeks.  
Information on paediatric requirements 
The paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Viread was agreed on 08 February 2010 (EMEA-000533-
PIP01-08 with PDCO compliance opinion number: EMA/652760/2011). It has to be noted that the PIP 
for Viread was submitted at a late stage regarding the HIV indication since the proposed studies for the 
paediatric development had been almost completed. The pivotal studies presented in the setting of the 
PIP were the currently analyzed study GS-US-104-0321 (in adolescents aged 12-<18 years) and study 
GS-US-104-0352 (in children aged 2-<12 years). Although the PDCO could agree upon the MAH’s 
approach, concerns were raised as regards bone toxicity and maturation. 
1.2.  Quality aspects 
1.2.1.  Introduction 
This grouped application includes two types of pharmaceutical forms.  
The first finished product in this application is presented as granules, an immediate release dosage 
form containing 4% of drug substance tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (40 mg/g), equivalent to 3.27% 
tenofovir disoproxil (33 mg/g). It is packaged in 250 ml high density polyethylene bottles.  
The second finished product are immediate release tablets containing tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in 
three dosage strengths of 150 mg / 200 mg / 250 mg, equivalent to 123 mg / 163 mg / 204 mg 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 7/59
 
 
 
 
tenofovir disoproxil, respectively. The tablets are packed in high density polyethylene bottles with a 
polypropylene child-resistant cap and silica gel as desiccant. 
The composition is described in section 6.1. of the SmPC for each of the dosage forms. 
1.2.2.  Active Substance 
Reference is made to the authorised dosage form, Viread 245 mg film-coated tablets. No new 
information on the active substance has been submitted with this line extension.  
1.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
GRANULES 
The granules are composed of mannitol (filler), hydroxypropyl cellulose (binder), ethylcellulose 
(microencapsulation agent) and silicon dioxide. (antistatic agent). Purified water, cyclohexane and 
polyethylene are used as processing aids, not present in the finished product. The excipients comply 
with compendial requirements. Acceptable in-house specifications are provided for cyclohexane and 
polyethylene.  
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the development was to obtain a taste masked oral formulation of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate suitable for paediatric administration that would allow flexibility in dosing to cover a posology 
of minimum 40 mg – maximum 300 mg of drug substance (as fumarate). The formulation also had to 
be stable and bioequivalent to the currently marketed Viread tablet.  
The chosen formulation are taste masked granules to be sprinkled onto food/drink. The taste masking 
properties are achieved thanks to using ethylcellulose microencapsulation obtained by coacervation. 
The suitability of the excipients selected for a paediatric formulation has been discussed. The choice for 
coacervation using cyclohexane and polyethylene as processing aids has been well justified. The taste 
masking can be considered as adequately demonstrated even when the finished product is mixed with 
soft food. The development of the dissolution method has been provided. Dissolution profiles of 
representative batches have been provided. The proposed measuring device (a dosing scoop) is 
adequate for intended use. 
The formulation used during phase 3 clinical studies is the same that the one used for marketing.  
Adventitious agents 
None of the excipients used in the manufacture of the finished product are of human or animal origin. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process was sufficiently described. It consists of wet granulation of the drug 
substance, sizing of the granules, microencapsulation of the granules via coacervation, addition of 
external phase and packaging. All critical steps are sufficiently controlled by adequate in-process tests. 
The process is considered to be a non-standard manufacturing process. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 8/59
 
 
 
 
Holding times of 6 months are proposed and justified for bulk in-process materials (bulk granules and 
bulk final blend). The materials are stored in a temperature controlled facility, in defined containers. To 
confirm the granted holding times, one batch of Viread granules, prepared from intermediates/bulk 
stored 6 months each, will be placed on stability and followed until the end of shelf-life (reference is 
made to chapter 2.2.6 of this report, Recommendations).  
Full validation data from three consecutive validation batches have been provided and include 
validation of re-blending and primary packaging. The data shows that the product can be 
manufactured reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for 
control of this oral preparation. 
Product specification 
The drug product specifications cover appropriate parameters for this dosage form. The tests include 
identification (HPLC, UV), assay (HPLC), degradation products (HPLC), uniformity of dose units 
(Ph.Eur.), uniformity of mass of delivered doses from multidose containers (Ph.Eur.), minimum fill, 
dissolution and microbiological purity (Ph.Eur.).    
Description and validation of the analytical methods have been adequately presented.  
Batch analysis has been performed on seven batches. The batch analysis results show that the finished 
product meets the specifications proposed and confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture.   
Stability of the product 
Thirty-six months of data on three primary stability batches are available at the long-term (25°C/60% 
RH) and intermediate (30°C/65% RH) storage conditions and six months of data at the accelerated 
storage conditions (40°C/75% RH). Photostability of the granules has been assessed as per ICH 
guideline on photostability testing of new drug substances and products. Additional forced degradation 
studies in acidic, basic and oxidative conditions will be performed; these studies are not considered 
critical with respect to product stability behaviour and known degradation patterns of the active 
substance (reference is made to chapter 2.2.6 of this report, Recommendations).  
An in-use shelf-life of 30 days has been established, based on results of an in-use stability study. 
Stability studies conducted on the drug product comply with the recommendations of the CHMP/ICH 
guidelines. 
The parameters of the product batches are identical to the batches proposed for marketing; in 
addition, the batches were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Appearance, assay, degradation product content, dissolution, and water content were determined at 
each scheduled time point.  The finished product remained within the specification in all cases. The 
analytical procedures used were stability indicating. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable, with the special condition of “Do not store above 25°C”. 
LOW STRENGTH TABLETS FOR PAEDIATRIC USE 
The lower strength Viread tablets are composed of lactose monohydrate and microcrystalline cellulose, 
pregelatinised starch (binder), croscarmellose sodium (disintegrant), magnesium stearate (lubricant) 
and a commercially available white film-coating mixture. All excipients, including components of the 
coating mixture, are compendial.  
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 9/59
 
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical development 
The lower strength immediate release Viread tablets were developed for paediatric use, to be used by 
children aged from 6 to 12 years. The tablets are white, with shape and debossing depending on the 
tablet strength. Tablet size acceptability by the target paediatric population will be assessed in an 
ongoing clinical study. The tablets are packed in high density polyethylene bottle with a polypropylene 
child-resistant cap and silica gel as a desiccant.  
No specific development has been done for the Viread 123 mg / 163 mg / 204 mg tablets as the 
proposed tablets have the same qualitative and quantitative composition as the authorised Viread 245 
mg tablet strength and are dose/weight proportional. Optimisation was performed, to adapt the 
manufacturing process of the 245 mg tablet to the other dosage strengths. Similarity of the dissolution 
profiles of Viread 123 mg / 163 mg / 204 mg / 245 mg tablet strengths is considered demonstrated at 
different pH and supports the biowaiver.   
The formulation used during phase III clinical studies is the same that the used for marketing. 
Bioequivalence study was performed showing bioequivalence between the early clinical formulation and 
the proposed commercial formulation.  
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as 
those used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the 
use of ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the 
Risk of Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal 
products. 
Magnesium stearate is of vegetable origin.  
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process consists of wet granulation of the drug substance with excipients, drying 
and calibration of the granules, addition of external phase, compression (tableting), film coating and 
packaging. All critical steps are sufficiently controlled by adequate in-process tests.  
Holding times of 6 months are proposed and justified for bulk in-process materials (final blend, 
uncoated tablets and coated tablets). The materials are stored in a temperature controlled facility, in 
defined containers. To confirm the granted holding times post approval, one batch of the 123 mg 
Viread tablet, prepared from intermediates/bulk stored 6 months each, will be placed on stability and 
followed until the end of shelf-life (reference is made to chapter 2.2.6 of this report, 
Recommendations). 
The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
The blend manufacturing is considered validated as this blend is identical to the already marketed 
tablet strength of 245 mg. The compression step and coating step will be validated prior to 
commercialisation. 
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this dosage form. The 
parameters tested are appearance, identification (HPLC, UV), water content (Ph.Eur.), assay (HPLC), 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 10/59
 
 
 
 
impurities and degradation products (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (Ph.Eur., weight variation), 
dissolution, titanium dioxide identification (if tested, Ph.Eur.) and microbiological purity (Ph.Eur.).      
The analytical methods are sufficiently described and properly validated.  
Batch analysis data are presented for three batches of each strength of Viread tablets, 123 mg, 163 
mg and 204 mg. The batch analysis results show that the finished product meets the specifications 
proposed and confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture.   
Stability of the product 
Twelve months of data on three primary stability batches of each tablet strength are available at the 
long-term (25°C/60% RH) and intermediate (30 °C/75% RH) storage conditions and six months of data 
at the accelerated storage conditions (40 °C/75% RH). Samples stored at 25 °C/60% RH are not 
scheduled to be tested unless the drug product exceeds or is likely to exceed the specification 
acceptance limits at 30 °C/75% RH. The long-term stability studies are conducted according to 
matrixing design, which is acceptable.  
The parameters of the product batches are identical to the batches proposed for marketing; in 
addition, the batches were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
No changes in physicochemical properties have been observed in Viread tablets, 123 mg, 163 mg and 
204 mg, following 12 months of storage at 30 °C/75% RH and 6 months at 40 °C/75% RH. The 
finished product remained within the specification acceptance limits for appearance, assay, degradation 
product content, dissolution, and water content. The analytical procedures used were stability 
indicating. 
Comparative stability data for the authorised strength (245 mg) show similar stability behaviour 
among the four tablet strengths and support the assigned shelf-life.  
An in-use shelf-life of 30 days has been established, based on results of an in-use stability study. 
Stability studies conducted on the drug product comply with the recommendations of the CHMP/ICH 
guidelines. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable.  
1.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Quality Development 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
1.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.   
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 11/59
 
 
 
 
1.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
1)  One batch of the Viread granules drug product, prepared from intermediate/bulk stored 6 months 
each, should be placed on stability and followed until end of shelf-life. 
2)  One  batch  of  the  123  mg  Viread  tablet,  prepared  from  intermediates/bulk  stored  6  months  each, 
should be placed on stability and followed until end of shelf-life. 
3)  Perform  additional  forced-degradation  studies  of  Viread  33  mg/g  granules  in  acidic,  basic,  and 
oxidative  conditions  using  HPLC  method  TM-112.  The  study  results  should  be  provided  by  31 
January 2013. 
1.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
A nonclinical overview summarizing the key available data with a view to the proposed indication in the 
paediatric patients aged 2-12 years was submitted.  
As already mentioned in the currently approved SmPC, bone effects (decreased BMD) were reported in 
adult humans. In children, cases of hypophosphatemia, decreased BMD and osteomalacia were 
reported. In addition, data on long-term effects on bone and growth and on the reversibility of these 
effects is currently insufficient, notably in the paediatric population. 
Bone was identified as a target organ in repeat-dose toxicity studies performed in rats, dogs and 
monkeys with decreased serum phosphate concentrations. Bone toxicity was diagnosed as 
osteomalacia in monkeys, and reduced bone mineral density (BMD) in rats and dogs. The safety 
margins for bone effects determined in rats and dogs were weak. As explicitly mentioned in the 
“guideline on the need for non-clinical testing in juvenile animals of pharmaceuticals for paediatric 
indications” (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/169215/2005), the skeletal system develops up to adulthood. The 
applicant mentions that rats were 6 weeks and dogs 5-7 months at study initiation; however, this does 
not represent the whole paediatric population for which the extension of indication is sought, 
particularly the youngest patients. Additionally, there are some issues regarding the relevance of the 
studies published by Van Rompay et al (2004, 2008) for risk assessment of tenofovir in these patients. 
Indeed, they were not designed as toxicity studies, and there were confounding factors which could 
have attenuated/ masked bone toxicity (e.g. phosphate supplementation). Therefore, the Applicant 
was requested to re-discuss these juvenile monkey studies based on the most clinically relevant 
individual data in terms of treatment protocol and examinations (please identify animals according to 
their identification number) to conclude on the long-term bone toxicity of Viread and its consequences 
on growth, and on the reversibility of these findings with a discussion on the potential role of 
phosphate supplementation. The applicant provided a detailed review of the most relevant data, 
showing induction of bone lesions in some monkeys treated chronically at high dose levels of tenofovir. 
These lesions improved notably upon dose reduction. On the basis of these data and considering that 
the issue of reversibility will be addressed in the Risk Management Plan (see discussion in the clinical 
part), it was considered that there is no need for an additional juvenile toxicity study. 
No other non clinical information was submitted and this is acceptable by the CHMP. 
1.3.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An ERA has been submitted in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83 requirements. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 12/59
 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
CAS-number (if available): 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log K ow 
OECD107 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC  surfacewater , default or refined (e.g. 
prevalence, literature) 
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate 
Study type 
Value 
1.5 
Adsorption-Desorption 
Ready Biodegradability Test 
Aerobic and Anaerobic Transformation 
in Aquatic Sediment systems 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
Study type  
Algae, Growth Inhibition 
Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata 
Daphnia, acute immobilisation test / 
Daphna magnia  
Fish Acute Toxicity Test 
Rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss 
Daphnia sp. Reproduction Test  
Water fleas 
Fish, Early Life Stage Toxicity Test/ 
Fathead Minnow, Pimephales promelas 
Activated Sludge, Respiration Inhibition 
Test  
Phase IIb Studies 
Sediment dwelling organism 
Chironomus riparius 
Test 
protocol 
OECD 121 
OECD 301 
OECD 308 
Test 
protocol 
OECD 201 
OECD 202 
OECD 203 
OECD 211 
OECD 210 
OECD 209 
OECD 218 
Result 
0.992 at pH 4 
1.18 at pH 7 
could  not  be  determined  at 
pH  10  due  to  the  instability 
of TDF in the buffer phase 
Conclusion 
Potential 
PBT: no 
Unit 
g/L 
Results 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 threshold 
K oc = 18 L/kg 
Not readily biodegradable 
TDF rapidly underwent primary 
degradation converting to several 
degradation products 
Endpoint  value  Unit 
NOEC 
EC 50 
NOEC 
EC 50 
NOEC 
LC 50 
NOEC 
EC 50 
NOEC 
LOEC  
NOEC 
EC 50 
14 
47 
98 
 98 
92  
>92  
13 
21 
1.9 
>1.9 
600  
940  
mg/L 
mg/L 
mg/L 
mg/L 
mg/L 
mg/L 
mg/L 
mg/L 
mg/L 
mg/L 
mg/L* 
mg/L* 
NOEC 
100 
mg/kg 
* active ingredient 
It is considered that Viread is unlikely to represent a risk to the aquatic environment, to micro-
organisms, or to sediment dwelling organisms. 
1.4.  Clinical aspects 
1.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 13/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Table 2.  Overview of Gilead-Sponsored Studies in this Submission 
A total of 4 new formulations, 1 granules formulation and 3 reduced-strength tablets (150, 200 and 
250mg) are proposed to allow once-daily dosing of paediatric patients. The CHMP considered that an 
oral solution would have been more suitable formulation than granules based on experience with other 
drugs in the field. However, it is acknowledged that the bitter taste of the drug substance has been a 
particular challenge in this development.  
The granules formulation is proposed for patients aged from 2 years and weighing at least 10kg. The 
granules formulation will also permit daily dose adjustment in patients with renal impairment. To mask 
the bitter taste of TDF, the granules is formulated to be mixed with soft food (eg: applesauce, 
yoghourt). 
Reduced-strength tablets (150-, 200-, and 250-mg strengths) are proposed for paediatric patients 6 to 
< 12 years of age who weigh 17 to < 35 kg. Of note, contrarily to the granules that was investigated 
in the phase III pivotal study GS-US-104-0352, the to-be-marketed additional strengths (150-, 200-, 
and 250-mg) tablets have not been tested in children (children dosed with tablet in the pivotal 352 
study were taken the 300 mg adult tablet). Therefore the acceptability of these new tablets 
characterized by different sizes cannot be appreciated at this stage. However, Study GS-US-104-0352 
has been amended (in January 2012) in order subjects whose weight increases to ≥ 17 kg and who are 
able to swallow tablets may be switched from the granules to the appropriate strength of tenofovir DF 
tablet. Evaluation of acceptability will be made within 4 to 6 weeks after the switch and data will be 
presented in Viread RMP. Moreover, given that the applicant is requested to further substantiate the 
dose in paediatric patients, reassurance on the acceptability will have to be derived as well from this 
requested study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 14/59
 
 
 
 
 
1.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
In support of the granules, the MAH has submitted a bioequivalence study (study GS-US-104-0312) 
between the granules formulation and the commercial 300mg-strengh tablet in adult healthy 
volunteers. As a limitation of the study design, the study was conducted in fasted state while TDF (at 
least in EU) is to be given with food.  
The results are the following: 
Table 3.  GS-US-104-0312: Statistical Comparisons of Tenofovir Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Test 
versus Reference Treatments (Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set) 
The bioequivalence criteria were met for the AUC of this intracellularly metabolised drug, but were not 
met for the Cmax (appr 30% lower). Moreover, the food effect on the granules has not been studied. 
The applicant is will perform a dedicated study (additional pharmacovigilance activity) – details are 
included in the RMP. 
No PK data have been collected using the reduced-strengths tablets. The proposed new strengths 
(150, 200 and 250mg) are immediate release tablets and have a proportionally similar quantitative 
composition to the approved 300mg strength tablet. TDF is characterised by a linear pharmacokinetics 
within the range 75 to 600 mg. In accordance with the guideline on Investigation of Bioequivalence, 
the Applicant requested a waiver for in vivo bioequivalence studies (cf. quality assessment). 
Finally, it is important to underline that the granules was developed not only for paediatric use but also 
for better adjustment in case of renal impairment. Indeed, in adult patients with renal impairment 
spacing the dose was recommended even though not considered optimal as compared to reducing the 
dose but was the only feasible option with the only available 300mg tablet. The availability of the 
granules will make possible a daily dose adjustment in renal impairment. 
As described in the table below, simulations were performed to derive daily dosing recommendation for 
patients with moderate and severe renal impairment or patients on hemodialysis.  
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 15/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4.  Simulated Tenofovir Steady-state Pharmacokinetics in Renally Impaired Non-HIV-1 Infected 
Adult Patients 
Table 5.  Tenofovir DF Dose Adjustments for Adult Patients with Renal Impairment 
The proposed dosing recommendation in patients with severe renal impairment based on PK simulation 
led to a significant over-exposure as compared to individuals with normal renal function. Over-
exposure of a nephrotoxic drug in such a vulnerable population was considered as a cause for concern. 
The Applicant did not provide sufficient evidence to support its proposed daily dose adjustment. In 
particular, the applicant should have predicted exposure with a different dose than 60 mg QD for these 
sub-strata of patients with severe renal impairment. This issue was raised at D120 assessment and the 
Applicant was asked to further discuss whether the proposed 60mg/d dose is the most appropriate for 
the patients with severe renal impairment and to provide a more in depth presentation of the rationale 
for the choice of the 20mg dose after each 4h hemodyalysis session for haemodialysis patients. The 
applicant clarified that same data and approach were taken for simulation between the original 
recommendation of daily dose adjustment and the currently proposed dose interval adjustment. 
However, the data available are very heterogeneous and could hardly support a 60 mg daily dose for 
patients in severe renal impairment (cl cr < 30 ml/mn). Therefore, further data are needed to allow 
the possibility for patients with renal impairment to switch from an interval dose adjustment to a daily 
dose adjustment. The MAH will perform the above mentioned simulations. Moreover, data in patients 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 16/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with renal impairment will have to be collected (as detailed in the RMP) to provide reassurance on the 
adequacy of the dosing recommendations in case of renal impairment. 
Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The MAH has submitted a bioequivalence study (study GS-US-104-0312) between the granules 
formulation and the commercial 300 mg-strength tablet in adult healthy volunteers. The 
bioequivalence criteria were met for the AUC. The study was conducted under fasting conditions. Fast 
conditions are more sensitive to detect formulation differences. In order to substantiate the 
administration of the granules with food, the applicant will perform a dedicated study to assess the 
food effect on the granules (additional pharmacovigilance activity) as detailed in the RMP. 
Moreover, as regards the use the granule formulation as an alternative to dose-interval adjustment in 
adults with moderate and severe renal impairment, further data are needed. The applicant withdrew 
this claim from the application. 
1.5.  Clinical efficacy 
1.5.1.  Dose selection 
In the pivotal paediatric study GS-US-104-0352, children received TDF at the dose of 8mg/kg (up to a 
maximum 300mg/day). This dose was chosen based on the results of 3 previous PK studies conducted 
in children 2-16 years of age. A PK sub-study on 23 children (mean age 6 years, range 2-11 years) 
who received TDF granules formulation at the dose of 8mg/kg/d (up to a maximum of 300mg/d) was 
conducted to assess the appropriateness of the selected dose. When comparing the data to exposure 
reported in adults receiving the 300mg tablet in historical studies -901 and -907, a trend for slightly 
lower exposure in children receiving the granules formulation is noted, which is even more noticeable 
for children aged 6-<12 years. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 17/59
 
 
 
 
Table 6.  GS-US-104-0352: Plasma Tenofovir Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Multiple Doses of 
Tenofovir DF (PK Analysis Set) and Comparative Historical Data in Adults 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 18/59
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7.   
Of note, similar PK were observed with the tablet formulation in adults and adolescents in study GS-
US-104-0321. It is unclear to what extent this trend might be driven by the difference in bioavailability 
between the tablet and the granules. The lower exposure in children aged 6-<12 years as compared to 
children aged 2-<6 years is unclear and might to some extent translate differential adherence between 
age groups. 
Overall the population from the study 0352 comprised a vast majority of patients with co-
administration with lopinavir/ritonavir. Of the 23 subjects who participated in the PK substudy, 21 
received lopinavir/ritonavir with TDF. This information is relevant since the combined use with boosted 
PIs increases the level of exposure to tenofovir. 
In the SmPC, the MAH proposes a dose range of 7.1 to 9.1 to bracket the target dose of 8 mg/kg 
evaluated in Study GS-US-104-0352.  
1.5.2.  Main study 
The main efficacy and safety data in support of the request are from study GS-US-104-0352, a Phase 
III, randomized, open-label study comparing the safety and efficacy of switching stavudine or 
zidovudine to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate versus continuing stavudine or zidovudine in virologically 
suppressed HIV-infected children taking HAART. This study compared the ability of TDF versus 
d4T/ZDV to maintain the virologic suppression. The design of this study is different from the study 
submitted in adolescents where TDF was added to an optimized background regimen (OBR) vs placebo 
+ OBR to assess the ability of TDF to achieve virologic suppression in patients failing therapy. 
Therefore, the study design in young children was considered as less discriminating in the aim of 
deriving reassurance on the dose adequacy.  
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 19/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The key design aspects for study GS-US-104-0352 are summarized below: 
Title of the study 
A Phase 3, Randomized, Open-Label Study Comparing the Safety and Efficacy 
of Switching Stavudine or Zidovudine to Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate versus 
Continuing  Stavudine  or  Zidovudine  in  Virologically  Suppressed  HIV-Infected 
Children Taking Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy 
Study Centers 
9  study  centers:  6  in  US,  1  in  Panama  and  2  in  UK  (of  note,  74%  of 
randomized patients were included in the site in Panama). Active sites 
during the second study extension include 3 sites in the US and the 1 site in 
Panama. 
Study Period: 
28 December 2006 (first subject screened) 
14 March 2008 (last subject randomized) 
21 February 2011 (last subject observation for this report) 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was as follows: 
• To assess the efficacy of switching to TDF compared to continuing stavudine 
or  zidovudine  in  maintaining  virologic suppression  (plasma  HIV-1  RNA  <  400 
copies/mL) in HIV-1 infected children at Week 48 
The secondary objectives of this study (Weeks 0–48) were as follows: 
• To evaluate the safety and tolerability of TDF in HIV-1 infected children 
•  To  evaluate  the  effects  of  switching  from  stavudine  or  zidovudine  to  TDF 
versus  continuing  stavudine  or  zidovudine  on  bone  mineral  density  (BMD), 
fasting lipid parameters, and fat distribution 
• To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of tenofovir in a subset of HIV-1 infected 
children receiving TDF granules formulation 
A  secondary  objective  evaluated  beyond  Week  48  (Weeks  0–240)  is  as 
follows: 
• To evaluate the long-term efficacy, safety, and tolerability of treatment with 
TDF through up to 240 weeks of drug exposure 
HIV-1  infected  male  and  female  subjects,  2  to  <  12  years  of  age,  with 
plasma HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/mL. 
Subjects  enrolled  in  Study  GS-US-162-0111,  a  Gilead-sponsored  study 
designed  to  provide  continued  access  to  emtricitabine,  were  eligible  for 
inclusion in this study, since they were receiving stavudine or zidovudine, and 
were  virologically  suppressed  (HIV-1  RNA  <  400  copies/mL),  with  no 
significant safety concerns. For these subjects, the age requirement for study 
entry was 2 to < 16 years of age. 
Subjects  were  naive  to  TDF,  and  were  on  a  stable  stavudine-  or 
zidovudine-containing  HAART  regimen  for  at  least  12  weeks  prior  to 
study  entry.  Subjects  had  adequate  hematologic,  renal,  and  hepatic 
functions. Patients with prior history of significant renal or bone disease were 
excluded. 
Population and 
main inclusion 
criteria 
Number of 
subjects 
Planned: 100 evaluable (50 in each treatment group) 
Randomized  and  treated  (RAT):  97 (tenofovir DF: 48, d4Tor ZDV: 49; All 
TDF: 89 (48 originally randomized in the TDF group + 41 initially randomized 
to d4T or ZDV who switched to TDF)  
Study duration 
240 weeks 
Criteria for 
evaluation 
Efficacy:  The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  number  and  percentage  of 
subjects with HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/ml at Week 48. 
Extension phase efficacy endpoints evaluated beyond Week 48 for the All TDF 
group were as follows: 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 20/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• The proportion of subjects with HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/mL 
• The proportion of subjects with HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mL 
• Change from baseline in CD4 cell count and CD4 percentage 
Subjects  originally  randomized  to  stavudine  or  zidovudine  who  switched  to 
tenofovir  DF  in  the  extension  phase  had  their  baseline  reset  to  their  first 
tenofovir  DF  dosing  date.  No  treatment  comparisons  were  performed  for  the 
All TDF group. 
Safety:  Safety  data  were  collected  for  the  following  parameters:  adverse 
events  (AEs);  clinical  laboratory  tests;  spine  and  total  body  BMD  and  limb 
(assessed  using  DEXA);  bone  biochemical  markers;  height;  weight;  vital 
signs;  and  physical  examinations  (complete  or  symptom-directed);  and 
changes from baseline in fasting lipid parameters. 
•Subjects  who  weighed  ≤  37  kg  or  were  unable  to  swallow  tenofovir  DF 
tablets  received  tenofovir  DF  granules  (4%  weight/weight  tenofovir  DF)  at  a 
dose of 8 mg/kg (up to 300 mg), once daily, with 2 to 4 ounces of applesauce 
or an equivalent food (ie, a food that did not require chewing) 
• Subjects who weighed > 37 kg received a 300-mg tenofovir DF tablet, once 
daily, with or without food.  
Rapporteur’s comment: Of note, in US tenofovir can be taken with or without 
food  contrarily  to  the  recommendation  in  EU  taking  into  account  the  food 
influence (nevertheless, only 5 children received the tablet).  
Subjects whose weight increased to > 37 kg during the extension phase were 
switched from the granules to the tenofovir DF tablet. 
No substitution of stavudine, zidovudine, or TDF was allowed during the initial 
48  weeks  of  the  study.  Changes  in  the  other  components  of  the  HAART 
regimen were permitted only for toxicity management. 
Study  GS-US-104-0352  is  a  Phase  3,  randomized,  open-label  study 
conducted in HIV-1 infected children (2 to < 12 years, and 2 to < 16 years for 
subjects enrolled in Study GS-US-162-0111 at time of enrollment into GS-US-
104-0352), who are virologically suppressed (HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/mL) on 
their current stavudine- or zidovudine-containing HAART regimen. 
The  first  48  weeks  of  this  study  consisted  of  a  randomized,  open-label, 
parallel-group  treatment  period.  Eligible  subjects  were  randomized  in  a  1:1 
ratio  to  either  replace  stavudine  or  zidovudine  with  tenofovir  DF  (Treatment 
Group A) or to continue stavudine or zidovudine (Treatment Group B) in their 
existing HAART regimen for 48 weeks. 
Randomization  was  stratified  by  whether  a  subject  was  currently  on 
stavudine or zidovudine. 
Dosing regimen 
Study design 
Subjects  completing  48 weeks  of  randomized  treatment  who  continued  to  be 
< 18 years of age were given the option to either continue or initiate tenofovir 
DF in the first of two 96-week study extensions (collectively referred to as the 
extension  phase).  Subjects  initially  randomized  to  stavudine  or  zidovudine 
could only switch to tenofovir DF if the investigator determined that tenofovir 
DF would be safe and beneficial for the subject.  
After completing the first 96-week study extension, currently enrolled subjects 
who  were  benefiting  from  tenofovir  DF  and  who  continued  to  be  <  18  years 
old were given the option to continue receiving tenofovir DF for an additional 
96 weeks, or until tenofovir DF becomes commercially available in the country 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 21/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
where the subjects are enrolled, whichever occurs first. 
The  criterion  that  subjects  be  <  18  years  of  age  upon  entry  into  the  study 
extensions  was  only  applicable  in  those  regions  where  tenofovir  DF  is 
commercially available for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults. 
Study GS-US-104-0352 was initiated in December 2006 and included 97 (48 in the TDF arm and 49 in 
the d4T/ZDV arm) virologically suppressed children, a large majority being from Panama. The 
comparison between the continuing regimen or the switch was performed at 48 weeks, then after all 
patients were to be treated with tenofovir for two periods of extension of 96 weeks each. At this stage 
of assessment, only the full data for the 1st extension phase of 96 weeks on top of the 48 weeks 
comparative assessment were available together with some data for the 2nd extension phase of 96 
weeks. The study is ongoing with an extension phase through 240 weeks. 
As shown in the figure below a total of 89 children of the 97 originally randomized entered the 1st 
extension phase of the study (38 initially randomized to TDF and 41 who switched from d4T or ZDV to 
TDF).  
Figure 1.   
At the time of the 144 weeks analysis, 66 children were still participating in the study. 
In study GS-US-104-0352, children ≤ 37 kg received TDF granules (n=40 during the randomized 
phase) and subjects > 37 kg received the TDF tablet (n=5 + 3 that received both TDF granules and 
tablets).  
The primary endpoint was the percentage of patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/ml at 48 weeks.  
Of note, since patients had undetectable HIV RNA and the goal was to maintain the HIV RNA 
undetectability, 96 weeks time point for the primary analysis would have been more relevant. 
Nevertheless, to some extent the longer the time for primary analysis the higher the likelihood of the 
loss of virologic suppression to stavudine or zidovudine for these patients pre-treated by these 
regimens. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 22/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The tested statistical hypothesis was the non inferiority between the switch regimen with TDF and the 
continuing regimen with d4T/ZDV.  
The Applicant did not provide justification for the choice of the wide 15% non-inferiority margin for a 
switch study in patients already virologically controlled. It was assumed that this choice was rather 
guided by sample size consideration.  
It was nevertheless acknowledged that the clinical efficacy demonstration obtained in adults is 
generally not to be duplicated for paediatric patients. The purpose of the clinical study was rather to 
further substantiate the dose that has been selected on the principle that similar PK exposure as in 
adults would predict similar efficacy/safety.  
The critical “a priori” concerns on the use of tenofovir with renal/bone toxicities in this vulnerable 
population, should have driven better choice for the design of the study by the applicant, i.e. larger 
sample size and long term comparative data would have been more appropriate to appreciate the 
safety of the drug in this young population in evolving process of bone modelling. 
Study Results 
Baseline characteristics of the study population  
The targeted patient population is children aged 2 to <12 years. Due to the sharp decrease of vertical 
transmission in US/EU (less than 1%), the newly infected children fortunately account for a very 
limited number of HIV infected children in EU/US (and are mainly represented by children from migrant 
populations). As it might be expected in this age range, the children enrolled mainly came from sites 
outside US/EU, i.e. in Panama. The extrapolation of the data has not been specifically discussed by the 
MAH.  
51.5% of the population was male, with a mean age of 7 years (range, 2 to 15 years), and most were 
Mestizo (67.0%) or black (19.6%). The mean value for BMI at screening was 17.08 kg/m2. 
79.4% of subjects (77/97) had plasma HIV-1 RNA levels < 50 copies/mL. The mean (SD) baseline CD4 
cell count was 1167 (468.6) cells/mm3 and the mean (SD) baseline CD4% was 33.5%. 
Table 8.   
CD4 cell counts and CD4% were similar in the 2 treatment groups in the 2 to < 6 years and 6 to < 12 
years age strata. The duration of prior exposure to stavudine or zidovudine was slightly longer in 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 23/59
 
 
 
 
 
subjects randomized to the tenofovir DF group than for subjects randomized to continue on their 
existing regimen. The categorisation by CDC HIV clinical classification was not collected in the study. 
Finally children having undetectable HIV RNA, it was not possible to appreciate the degree of drug 
resistance at baseline. 
It has to be noted that at baseline a markedly higher proportion in the TDF arm as compared to the 
d4T/ZDV arm had plasma HIV-1 RNA levels 50 to < 400 copies/mL: 22.9% vs 12.2%, which might to 
some extent reflect an ongoing process of loss of virologic suppression. 
As expected, the vast majority of children was taking lopinavir/ritonavir. When considering that 
lopinavir/ritonavir is shown to increase TDF exposure, this to some extent adds to the consideration 
that TDF was put under optimal condition (virologically suppressed patients and combination with drug 
likely to maximize its activity) for deriving reassurance on the dose adequacy.   
Efficacy data  
During the randomized 48 weeks phase 47.9% of subjects maintained an adherence rate to tenofovir 
DF of ≥ 95%. At week 144 data cut off this figure was 57.3% 
It has to be underlined from the protocol deviations that a significant number of deviations was due to 
incorrect dispensing or dosing. Measures have been put in place by the applicant to minimize the risk 
for medication errors that are presented in the RMP (including a formative qualitative comprehension 
and usability study of the (US) patient instructions for use of Viread granules to aid parents or 
caregivers understanding for use of the tenofovir DF granules).  
Finally, seven patients discontinued from the study due to poor adherence to TDF (4 were dosed with 
the granules and 3 were dosed with the tablet at the time of treatment discontinuation).  
When considering the virological results, the pre-defined criteria for non-inferiority at week 48 for the 
MAH chosen primary ITT Missing=Failure analysis was not met as shown in the table below:  
Table 9.  GS-US-104-0352: Number and Percentage of Subjects with Plasma HIV-1 RNA < 400 
copies/mL at Week 48 (ITT Analysis Set) 
This was neither met for Per protocol (Missing= Failure) analysis: 83% (39/47) in the TDF arm versus 
91.5% (43/47) in the comparator arm: - 8.5% [-21.9% to 4.9].  
Differential loss of virologic suppression was not expected and when scrutinizing the reasons for 
failure, it appears that the difference between both groups is not driven by virologic potency but rather 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 24/59
 
 
 
 
 
by a higher rate of discontinuation in the TDF arm (withdrew consent and poor adherence) which is 
nevertheless of concern in a pragmatic approach. Moreover, it appears that patients who were found to 
have HIV RNA >400 copies/ml at week 48 rather experienced blip than true virologic failure. Finally, 
more patients in the TDF arm had at baseline their HIV RNA between 50 -400 c/ml; therefore 
potentially more prone to loose the virologic suppression.  
The results from a post-hoc (FDA-requested) snapshot analysis described below show that TDF met the 
non-inferiority using this analysis.  
Table 10.   
Clarifications were requested as regards the difference between the two analyses that were provided 
by the Applicant in the MAH’s response to the D120 LoQ: 
Using the missing = failure method, 8 subjects in the tenofovir DF group and 4 subjects in the stavudine 
or zidovudine group were classed as failures at Week 48. Using the snapshot method, 5 subjects in 
each group were classed as failures and 1 subject in each group had no virologic data in the Week 48 
visit window (discontinued due to withdrawal of consent). 
Subjects with different outcomes as assessed by missing = failure or snapshot methods for HIV-1 RNA 
< 400 copies/mL at Week 48 in Study GS-US-104-0352 are presented in the table below: 
Table 11.   GS-US-104-0352: Subjects with Different Failure/Success Outcomes as Assessed by 
Missing = Failure or Snapshot Methods for HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/mL at Week 48 
Subject No. 
HIV-1 RNA Values in the Week 48 
Visit Window
a
Outcome,  
Outcome, Snapshot 
Missing = Failure 
T  enofovir DF 
1578-9019  25,800 copies/mL (Day 338) 
< 400 copies/mL (Day 365) 
Failure 
Success 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 25/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1578-9033  4170 copies/mL (Day 337) 
< 400 copies/mL (day 367) 
S  tavudine or Zidovudine 
1578-9017  < 400 copies/mL (Day 338) 
18,300 copies/mL (Day 365) 
Failure 
Success 
Success 
Failure 
1800-9062  < 400 copies/mL (Day 337) 
Success 
Failure 
(lopinavir/ritonavir 
added  to  regimen  on 
Day 111) 
a 
GS-US-104-0352 Week 48 CSR, Appendix 14, Listing 10.1 
Long term Efficacy results 
After the 48 weeks comparative period, the study was no longer comparative all patients were 
receiving TDF. 
Table 12.  GS-US-104-0352: Proportion of Subjects with Plasma HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/mL at 
Weeks 48, 96, and 144 (ITT Analysis Set) 
Resistance data 
A virology genotyping substudy was conducted on HIV-1 from all subjects who discontinued the study 
due to virologic failure, or who had HIV-1 RNA ≥ 400 copies/mL at Week 48, Week 96, Week 144, 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 26/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Week 192, Week 240 or upon early discontinuation prior to the data cut-off dates for the Week 96 and 
Week 144 data analyses. Baseline genotyping was not conducted due to the low HIV-1 viral load at 
study entry.  
K65R was detected in 1 patient; the early detection of the mutation in this patient (week 4) might 
indicate that mutation was pre-existing at study baseline. M184V and thymidine analog-associated 
mutations (TAMs) were also detected. However, distinction between pre-existing and emerging 
mutations could not have been made. 
Summary of main study 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 13.  Summary of Efficacy for trial GS-US-104-0352 
Title:    A  Phase  3,  Randomized,  Open-Label  Study  Comparing  the  Safety  and  Efficacy  of  Switching 
Stavudine  or  Zidovudine  to  Tenofovir  Disoproxil  Fumarate  versus  Continuing  Stavudine  or  Zidovudine  in 
Virologically Suppressed HIV-Infected Children Taking Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy 
Study identifier 
Gilead protocol number: GS-US-104-0352 
EudraCT number: 2007-003418-32  
Design 
Study GS-US-104-0352 is a Phase 3, randomized, open-label study conducted in HIV-1 
infected children (2 to < 12 years, and 2 to < 16 years for subjects enrolled in 
Study GS-US-162-0111 at time of enrollment into GS-US-104-0352), who are 
virologically suppressed (HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/mL) on their current stavudine- or 
zidovudine-containing HAART regimen. 
The first 48 weeks of this study consisted of a randomized, open-label, parallel-group 
treatment period. Eligible subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either replace 
stavudine or zidovudine with tenofovir DF (Treatment Group A) or to continue stavudine 
or zidovudine (Treatment Group B) in their existing HAART regimen for 48 weeks. 
Randomization was stratified by whether a subject was currently on stavudine or 
zidovudine. 
Subjects completing 48 weeks of randomized treatment who continued to be < 18 years 
old were given the option to either continue or initiate tenofovir DF in the first of three 
96-week study extensions (collectively referred to as the extension phase). Subjects 
initially randomized to stavudine or zidovudine could only switch to tenofovir DF if the 
investigator determined that tenofovir DF would be safe and beneficial for the subject. 
After completing the first (or second) 96-week study extension, currently enrolled 
subjects who were benefiting from tenofovir DF and who continued to be < 18 years old 
were given the option to continue receiving tenofovir DF for an additional 96 weeks, or 
until tenofovir DF becomes commercially available in the country where the subjects are 
enrolled, whichever occurs first. 
Duration of main phase: 
48 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase: 
Up to 288 weeks 
(total duration up to 336 weeks including 
main phase of 48 weeks) 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 27/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority 
Treatments 
groups 
TDF 
d4T or ZDV 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary endpoint 
Secondary endpoints 
(main ones) 
Tenofovir DF (granules or tablet) + 
continuing HAART regimen 
(excluding stavudine or zidovudine) 
(Weeks 0–48) (n=48). 
Subjects who weighed > 37 kg and were 
able to swallow tablets were given one 
300-mg tenofovir DF tablet per day. 
Subjects who weighed  37 kg or were 
unable to swallow the tenofovir DF tablet 
were given tenofovir DF granules 
(4% weight/weight tenofovir DF) at a 
dose of 8 mg/kg, once daily, up to a 
maximum dose of 300 mg. 
Continue prescribed stavudine- or 
zidovudine-containing HAART regimen 
(Weeks 0–48) (n=49). 
HIV-1 RNA 
< 400 copies/mL 
(M=F) 
HIV-1 RNA 
< 400 copies/mL 
(Snapshot) 
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mL 
(M=F) 
Proportion of subjects with HIV-1 RNA 
concentrations < 400 copies/mL at Week 
48 (Missing = Failure analysis) 
Proportion of subjects with HIV-1 RNA 
concentrations < 400 copies/mL at Week 
48 (Snapshot analysis) 
Proportion of subjects with plasma HIV-1 
RNA < 50 copies/mL at Week 48 
(Missing = Failure analysis) 
Change from 
baseline CD4% 
Change from baseline in CD4 percentage 
(%) at Week 48 
Change from 
baseline CD4Count 
Change from baseline in CD4 cell count 
(cells/mm3) at Week 48 
Database lock 
21 April 2009 for the primary efficacy analysis 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Primary Analysis 
Intent to treat – 48 weeks. 
Treatment group 
Number of subject 
HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/mL 
(M=F) 
n (%) 
HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/mL 
(Snapshot) 
n (%) 
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mL 
(M=F) 
n (%) 
TDF 
48 
d4T or ZDV 
49 
40/48 (83.3%) 
45/49 (91.8%) 
42/48 (87.5%) 
43/49 (87.8%) 
34/48 (70.8%) 
42/49 (85.7%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 28/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from baseline CD4% 
Mean (standard deviation) 
Change from baseline 
CD4Count  
Mean (standard deviation) 
Primary endpoint: HIV-1 
RNA < 400 copies/mL (M=F) 
Effect estimate 
per comparison 
HIV-1 RNA < 400 copies/mL 
(Snapshot) 
0.3 (4.49) 
1.1 (4.73) 
-97 (416.4) 
-11 (280.2) 
Comparison groups 
TDF versus d4T or ZDV 
Difference between 
groups 
95% Confidence Interval  –21.5% to 4.5% 
–8.5% 
P-value (Fisher's Exact 
test) 
Comparison groups 
0.23 
TDF versus d4T or ZDV 
Difference between 
groups 
95% Confidence Interval  –13.4% to 12.9% 
P-value 
Not calculated 
-0.3% 
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mL 
(M=F) 
Comparison groups 
TDF versus d4T or ZDV 
Change from baseline CD4% 
Change from baseline 
CD4Count 
–14.9% 
Difference between 
groups 
95% Confidence Interval  –31.0% to 1.3% 
P-value (Fisher's Exact 
test) 
Comparison groups 
0.089 
TDF versus d4T or ZDV 
Difference between 
groups 
95% Confidence Interval  –2.7 , 1.1 
–0.8 
P-value (Wilcoxon Rank 
Sum Test) 
Comparison groups 
0.45 
TDF versus d4T or ZDV 
Difference between 
groups 
95% Confidence Interval 
P-value (Wilcoxon Rank 
Sum Test) 
-86 
-231, 59 
0.46 
1.5.3.  Conclusions on clinical efficacy 
The clinical study GS-US-104-0352 compared the ability of TDF (switch arm) versus d4T/ZDV 
(continuing arm) to maintain the virologic suppression in patients already virologically suppressed 
(with HIV RNA levels <400 copies/ml) under treatment with d4T/ZDV. The design of this study was 
different from the study in adolescents where TDF was added to an optimized background regimen 
(OBR) vs placebo + OBR to assess the ability of TDF to achieve virologic suppression in patients failing 
therapy. Therefore, the study design in young children was considered as less discriminating in the aim 
of deriving reassurance on the dose adequacy, but well acceptable. Results show that the vast majority 
of patients had sustained virological suppression at the 8 mg/kg dose in study 352. At week 48, 83% 
of patients in the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment group and 92% of patients in the stavudine 
or zidovudine treatment group had HIV 1 RNA concentrations < 400 copies/ml. The difference in the 
proportion of patients who maintained < 400 copies/ml at week 48 was mainly influenced by the 
higher number of discontinuations in the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment group.  When missing 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 29/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
data were excluded, 91% of patients in the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment group and 94% of 
patients in the stavudine or zidovudine treatment group had HIV 1 RNA concentrations < 400 
copies/ml at week 48. 
Beyond the clinical demonstration is the level of PK data to substantiate the comparable PK exposure 
between children and adults to predict similar efficacy and safety, as it is a general rule for the clinical 
development in paediatric patients. To this purpose, the applicant has performed several analyses to 
achieve a better picture of the PK in children. It remains that determining an optimal dose in children is 
always a difficult exercise when having to conciliate limited sample size and several sources of 
variability. In this situation, not only age and weight accounts for as a source of variability but also the 
treatment with combined agents (boosted PI vs no boosted PI) as well as the food effect (the lack of a 
dedicated study to assess the food effect on the  granules cannot allow to exclude a potential 
differential food effect between the oral tablet and granules). This overall translates that the dose has 
to be further substantiated mainly for the granules formulation (in children from 2 to <6 years old) 
even though it is acknowledged that the vast majority of patients had sustained virological suppression 
in this study. 
Therefore, considering the medical need for additional backbone in paediatric patients as well as the 
virological data available, the CHMP considered approvable Viread in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of HIV-1 infected paediatric patients, with NRTI 
resistance or toxicities precluding the use of first line agents. 
However, to further substantiate the above, the applicant needs to perform the following studies: 
- 
- 
a PK bioavailability study to compare the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) granules and the 
300-mg tablet in the fed state to further substantiate the conclusion that a similar dose can be 
given regardless of the formulation. Results expected by 31 August 2013. 
collect PK data in Study GS-US-174-0144 (HBV infected subjects 2 to < 12 years of age) to 
further substantiate the adequacy of the dose in HIV-infected children from 2 years of age 
through. Results expected by 30 June 2014. 
The SmPC of the granules formulation was updated to reflect the conclusions from the data submitted 
as part of this application and  to promote monitoring “Limited clinical data are available at the 6.5 
mg/kg dose of the granules.  Therefore, close monitoring of efficacy and safety is needed”.  
1.6.  Clinical safety 
Similarly to adults or adolescents, the salient aspect of the drug pertains to its bone and renal toxicity. 
Those are viewed as particularly critical for the most vulnerable population of growing children.  
Patient exposure 
The median duration of exposure to tenofovir DF through the week 144 data cutoff was 151.9 weeks 
for the All TDF group with 178.6 weeks for the tenofovir DF subgroup and 151.1 weeks for the (d4T or 
ZDV)/TDF subgroup.  
Adverse events 
During the randomized period, a similar proportion of patients in the TDF and d4T or ZDV groups 
reported at least 1 AE (adverse events) (85.4% [41 subjects] and 83.7% [41 subjects]). More patients 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 30/59
 
 
 
 
randomized in the TDF group exhibit vomiting (12.5%, 6 subjects versus zero subjects) and 
musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (10.2%, 5 subjects versus zero subjects) than 
subjects who continue on their d4T/ZDV regimen. 
Unfortunately for the appreciation of the long-term safety of the drug, data were no longer 
comparative after Week 48. 
At the Week 144 data cut-off, 83 subjects (93.3%) in the All TDF group reported at least 1 AE. 
Adverse events considered related to study drug were reported for 23 subjects. Grade 2, 3, or 4 AEs 
were considered related to study drug for 11 subjects. Grade 3 or 4 AEs were considered related to 
study drug for 3 subjects. 
Table 14.   GS-US-104-0352: Overall Summary of Adverse Events Through the Week 144 Data Cutoff 
(RAT Analysis Set) 
Of note, the incidence of study drug-related arthralgia increased from 2 subjects (2.2%) in the Week 
96 analysis to 11 subjects (12.4%) in the Week 144 analysis. Four cases of arthralgia were still 
ongoing (including 1 grade 3 arthalgia). The MAH was requested to discuss the potential relationship of 
arthralgia with bone safety concern and to specify the evolution of BMD score as well as creatinine 
clearance during the study for those patients. No apparent association between artharalgia and BMD Z-
score can be found on the basis of the limited data available from this study. 
A high percentage of gastrointestinal disorders (25%) including vomiting, nausea and diarrhoea in the 
all TDF group raised concern on the adherence of the granules (bitter taste, challenging to be masked). 
Reassurance on the acceptability are expected to be derived from the planned study GS-US-174-0144 
(enrolling soon) in HBV infected subjects 2 to < 12 years of age and from the requested drug 
utilization study (see further). 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
No subjects died during this study. 
Serious adverse events were reported for 8 subjects in the All TDF group; no SAEs were considered 
related to study drug by the investigator.  
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 31/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to AES 
Five subjects in the All TDF group discontinued study drug due to an AE: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 for hypophasphatemia on day 596 and 1072 
1 for hypophasphatemia and arthralgia on day 1026 
1 for glycosuria on day 700 
1 for brain neoplasm on day 735 
Each of the AEs, except for the brain neoplasm, was considered related to study drug by investigators. 
Laboratory findings 
The majority of subjects in the study had at least 1 treatment-emergent laboratory abnormality 
reported. The majority of the abnormalities reported were Grade 1 or Grade 2 in severity. Grade 3 or 4 
abnormalities were reported for 14 subjects in the All TDF group, including 11 subjects in the tenofovir 
DF subgroup and 3 subjects in the (d4T or ZDV)/TDF subgroup. Grade 3 or 4 abnormalities were most 
frequently reported for ALT (6 subjects), amylase (5 subjects), and hypophosphatemia (3 subjects). 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 32/59
 
 
 
 
Table 15.  GS-US-104-0352: Grade 3 or 4 Treatment-Emergent Laboratory Abnormalities Through the 
Week 144 Data Cutoff (RAT Analysis Set) 
` 
Laboratory findings of interest (i.e. renal and bone parameters): 
Renal Laboratory Parameters 
Serum Creatinine 
Median serum creatinine concentrations were low at baseline (baseline median 0.40 mg/dL). There 
were small increases from baseline in serum creatinine in the All TDF group (median change from 
baseline at Week 144 was 0.10 mg/dL).  
No graded serum creatinine abnormalities were reported. 
Serum Phosphate 
In the All TDF group, treatment-emergent graded hypophosphatemia was reported for 9 subjects 
(Grade 1 for 5 subjects, Grade 2 for 1 subject, and Grade 3 for 3 subjects [study drug discontinued for 
these last three subjects]). 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 33/59
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated Creatinine Clearance 
There were modest decreases from baseline in estimated creatinine clearance in the All TDF group 
(median values were 163.63 mL/min/1.73 m² at baseline and 149.12 mL/min/1.73 m² at Week 144). 
At Week 144, the median change from baseline was −11.83 mL/min/1.73 m2 in the All TDF group (n = 
62, p = 0.003). Decrease was more pronounced in children 2 to <6 years of age (-17.5; n=18) as 
compared to children 6 to <12 years of age (-9.9; n=40).   
For the sake of comparison, in the adolescent study GS-US-104-0321 (Week 144 report submitted in 
fulfilment of Paediatric article 46), the median change from baseline was -38.5 mL/min/1.73 m2 at 
Week 144 (median values were 167.6 mL/min/1.73 m2 at baseline [n = 81] and 135.8 mL/min/1.73 
m2 at Week 144 [n = 16]). 
GS-US-104-0352: Median and IQR of Estimated Creatinine Clearance by Visit Through the Week 144 
Data Cutoff (RAT Analysis Set) 
In this study, patients had normal renal function at baseline. Ten patients (11.2%) had confirmed 
decrease from baseline ≥ 35%. No subjects had estimated creatinine clearance values < 70 
mL/min/1.73 m² during the study. However, 5 subjects had creatinine clearance values between 70 
and 90 mL/min/1.73 (including 3 of the patients who discontinued from the study due to proximal 
renal tubulopathy and 2 who continue on study drug).   
Proteinuria 
In the All TDF group, treatment-emergent Grade 1 proteinuria was reported for 12 subjects. Grade 2 
proteinuria was reported for 10 subjects. No Grade 3 or 4 proteinuria was reported.  
Glycosuria 
In the All TDF group, treatment-emergent Grade 1 glycosuria was reported for 3 subjects and Grade 4 
glycosuria was reported for 1 subject (the latter was reported as an AE and led to study drug 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 34/59
 
 
 
 
 
discontinuation). 
Proximal Renal Tubulopathy Using a Case Definition 
The renal safety data for the 4 subjects who discontinued tenofovir DF due to renal AEs in the 
extension phase of this study were clinically consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy, a renal 
disorder identified in postmarketing surveillance of tenofovir DF in adults. Subsequently, renal safety 
data were systematically reviewed using a case definition to assess whether there were any other 
subjects who had data consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy. While there is no standard definition 
for proximal renal tubulopathy, the following criteria were used to define cases of proximal renal 
tubulopathy in paediatric patients (modified from the definition being used in a study in adults, GS-US-
104-0353): at least 2 of 5 graded laboratory abnormalities consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy 
(at least Grade 1 proteinuria, glycosuria, hypokalemia, hypocarbia, or hypophosphatemia on at least 2 
occasions) and a > 35% reduction from baseline in creatinine clearance. 
A total of 5 subjects (5.6%) met the case definition of proximal renal tubulopathy, which led to 
permanent discontinuation in 4 cases. The remaining subject developed a > 35% reduction from 
baseline in creatinine clearance along with grade 1 proteinuria and glycosuria. 
Outcome was unclear since a follow-up of only 30 days after drug discontinuation was planned per 
protocol. Of note, the cases were reported in children aged 9 to 15 years (all were receiving 
concomitant lopinavir/ritonavir).  
This finding was considered of particular concern for the children population when considering that no 
case of proximal renal tubulopathy was reported in the adolescent study GS-US-352-0321 through 
week 144 or in longer-term studies in adults. 
Table 16.  GS-US-104-0352: Proximal Renal Tubulopathy Cases Through the Week 144 Data Cutoff 
(RAT Analysis Set) 
It should be outlined that 3 patients who discontinued study drug due to a renal AE also had worsened 
clinical status for spine BMD and/or total body BMD Z-scores. 
There was no mandatory off-treatment follow-up period beyond the end-of-study visit that was to 
occur within 30 days of discontinuation of study drug. Therefore, subjects who discontinued TDF due to 
renal AEs (hypophosphatemia for 3 subjects; glycosuria for 1 subject) were not subsequently followed 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 35/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
to confirm resolution of laboratory abnormalities. The updated RMP will cover specific actions to 
ascertain the reversibility of TDF renal toxicity. 
Bone Parameters 
Spine Bone Mineral Density 
In the randomized treatment period, there were no statistically significant differences between groups 
in the percentage change from baseline in spine BMD. However, 1 subject randomized to the TDF 
group and no subjects randomized to the d4T or ZDV group had a > 4% decrease in spine BMD at 
Week 48. 
Spine BMD Z-Score  
Baseline spine BMD Z-scores were lower in the TDF group (median −1.042) than in the d4T or ZDV 
group (median −0.595), and more subjects in the TDF group had abnormal spine BMD at baseline than 
in the d4T or ZDV group (Z-scores were ≤ −1 for 50% of subjects [23/46] in the TDF group and 30% 
of subjects [14/46] in the d4T or ZDV group).  
At the time of the Week 48 data cutoff, there were no marked changes in median spine BMD Z-scores 
in either group at week 48. 
Figure 2.  GS-US-104-0352: Median and IQR of Spine BMD Z-Score by Visit Through the Week 144 
Data Cutoff (RAT Analysis Set) 
In the All TDF group at baseline, median spine BMD Z-score was −0.862, and 44% of subjects (38/87) 
had abnormal spine BMD (Z-scores ≤ −1). No statistically significant change in spine BMD Z-score was 
seen in the All TDF group; the median change from baseline to Week 144 was 0.085 (n = 60, p = 
0.61).  
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 36/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of note, whereas no marked change in spine BMD Z-score were apparent through week 144, data 
available for the patients who reached 192 weeks tend to indicate a decrease in spine BMD Z-score 
after week 144. This observation may result from the lower numbers of subjects with available data at 
later timepoints. 
Moreover, from baseline to Week 144, the clinical status category for spine BMD Z-score improved for 
10 subjects and worsened for 10 subjects. Details on patients who had worsened BMD Z-score and/or 
abnormal Z score (Z-score ≤ −1) at week 144 have been provided in the Applicant’s response to the 
D120 list of questions. However, no conclusion can be drawn from these data, especially since there is 
no well established correlation between BMD decrease and clinical bone events. 
Spine BMD Z-Score by Age Subgroup 
In the All TDF group, analyses of spine BMD Z-scores by age group showed no marked change from 
baseline in median values in the 2 to < 6 years group, and modest decreases from baseline in median 
values in the 6 to < 12 years group. The median changes from baseline at Week 144 were 0.308 (n = 
18) and −0.140 (n = 38), respectively. 
Total Body Bone Mineral Density 
In the randomized treatment period in Study GS-US-104-0352, there was a statistically significant 
difference in the percentage change from baseline in total body BMD. Median percentage changes were 
smaller in the TDF group than in the d4T or ZDV group (median changes at Week 48: 1.220% versus 
2.679%, p = 0.043). One subject randomized to TDF and 1 subject randomized to d4T or ZDV had a > 
4% decrease in total body BMD at or before Week 48. 
Total Body BMD Z-Score 
At baseline, total body BMD Z-scores were negative in both groups (median −0.375 in the TDF group 
and −0.394 in the d4T or ZDV group). Total body BMD was abnormal at baseline (Z-scores ≤ −1) for 
34% of subjects (16/47) in the TDF group and 21% of subjects (10/48) in the d4T or ZDV group.  
At the time of the Week 48 analysis, there was a modest reduction in total body BMD Z-score in the 
TDF group (median change at Week 48: −0.215) compared to no change in the d4T or ZDV group. 
Moreover, it appears that reductions in median values for total body BMD Z-score progress over time 
in the All TDF group. At the time of the Week 144 data cutoff, the median change from baseline to 
Week 48, Week 96, and Week 144 in the All TDF group were as follows (Wilcoxon signed rank test): 
−0.135 (n = 82, p < 0.001), −0.237 (n = 77, p < 0.001), and −0.299 (n = 60, p = 0.002), 
respectively.  
Analyses of total body BMD Z-scores in the 20 subjects in the tenofovir DF subgroup with Week 192 
BMD data showed a modest decrease from baseline in median values. The median change from 
baseline at Week 192 was −0.318 (p = 0.070, Wilcoxon signed rank test). 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 37/59
 
 
 
 
Table 17.  GS-US-104-0352: Median and IQR of Total Body BMD Z-Score by Visit Through the Week 
144 Data Cutoff (RAT Analysis Set) 
These findings differ from those seen in adults (Study GS-99-903), in which the majority of the 
reduction in spine and hip BMD occurred in the first 24 to 48 weeks, with little or no progression in loss 
of BMD for the remainders of the study. 
Moreover, there was some evidence for worsening in the clinical status of total body BMD Z-scores in 
the All TDF group. From baseline to Week 144, the clinical status category for total body BMD Z- score 
improved for 3 subjects and worsened for 12 subjects.  
Total Body BMD Z-Score by Age Subgroup 
In the All TDF group, analyses of total body BMD Z-scores by age group showed decreases from 
baseline in median values for both the 2 to < 6 years and 6 to < 12 years groups. Decreases in total 
body BMD Z-score were more marked in the younger age group. The median changes from baseline at 
Week 144 were −0.776 (n = 18) and −0.120 (n = 38), respectively. This result is worrying, even 
though, clinical consequences of this demineralization are difficult to evaluate. 
Analyses of spine BMD Z-score and total body BMD Z-score by age showed opposite results. According 
to the MAH, these data suggest bone mineralisation change in trabecular bone among subjects aged 6-
12 years, whereas subjects aged 2-6 years are more likely to experienced change in cortical bone 
An analysis of the clinical consequences of bone findings in the paediatric population, including 
potential differences according to age groups has been provided by the Applicant in the response to 
the D120 list of questions. Moreover, a SAG meeting was held the 3 May 2012 to help the CHMP 
adequately weight the burden of the safety profile of the TDF in paediatric patients. Both highlight the 
lack of correlation between DXA measurements and bone events. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 38/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other parameters:  
Calcium 
Treatment-emergent Grade 1 hypercalcemia was reported for 30 subjects (33%) in the All TDF group 
in the Week 144 analysis. The MAH should discuss the high frequency of hypercalcemia and the 
potential relationship with renal toxicity. 
Serum Bone Biochemical Markers 
Increase in markers of bone turnover (markers of bone formation: bone-Specific Alkaline Phosphatase 
and markers of bone resorption: N- and C-Telopeptide) were observed at week 48. Increase in the TDF 
group were greater and statistically significant compared to the d4T/ZDV group. There were no marked 
change from baseline to Week 144 for those markers. However, modest reductions from baseline 
(baseline median 27.2 ng/mL) in serum osteocalcin (marker of bone formation) were seen in the All 
TDF group (median change at Week 144 of −6.3 ng/mL, n = 62, p < 0.001, Wilcoxon signed rank 
test). 
Those data reflect increase in bone remodeling in children 2 to <12 years of age receiving TDF. The 
Applicant considers there is no evidence of imbalance between bone formation and bone resorption. 
However, analyses of serum bone biochemical markers were very descriptive and there is no validated 
standard for the general population to allow for comparison. 
Conclusions on clinical safety 
Due to its safety profile characterized by renal and bone toxicity, tenofovir was not regarded as an “a 
priori” optimal candidate for use in paediatric patients in evolving process of bone remodelling. The 
particular findings of BMD alteration observed in the pivotal GS-US-104-0352 could not allow dispelling 
these concerns. 
In terms of safety, the clinical data derived from the pivotal GS-US-104-0352 study did not give 
reassurance on the “a priori” concerns on the use of TDF, characterised with renal and bone toxicities, 
in children in bone modelling evolving process. 
- 
- 
5 children (5.6%) experienced renal adverse event clinically consistent with proximal renal 
tubulopathy, while renal tubulopathy was not reported in adult and adolescents clinical 
studies.  
There was reduction in total Body BMD Z-score in the TDF group (median change from 
baseline at Week 48: −0.215 compared to no change in the d4T or ZDV group) and this 
reduction was progressively decreasing over time based on 144 week data. The effect was 
more marked in children aged 2 to <6 years as compared to children aged 6 to <12 years 
(median change from baseline at Week 48: -0.776 versus -0.120).  
Moreover, since this study is no longer comparative after 48 weeks it does not allow to substantiate 
the long term impact on bone remodelling in children.  
The CHMP requested a SAG (Scientific Advisory Group) meeting to adequately address the bone and 
renal safety of tenofovir in the paediatric population with medical need. Due to other on going 
procedures the CHMP endorsed the extension of the SAG scope. The SAG members were invited to 
give their position on the risk of bone and renal toxicity of Viread in the context of its use in both HIV 
and HBV infected paediatric and adult patients. PDCO members as experts provided input to the 
scientific discussion at the SAG. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 39/59
 
 
 
 
The SAG meeting was held the 3 May 2012. The discussion focused on the safety burden of tenofovir 
in the paediatric population and gave important information on the safety monitoring of the use of 
tenofovir in paediatric patients. Overall, SAG members highlighted the lack of correlation between DXA 
measurements and bone events and the difficulties to provide specific recommendation as regards 
supplementation. 
As regards renal toxicity in paediatric patients: the SAG members did not foresee any specific reason 
for the renal toxicity in adults being different in children and adolescents. Only the phosphate loss 
resulting from tubulopathy could be of differential impact given that paediatric patients are in active 
process of bone modelling. The current recommendation of renal toxicity monitoring in adults are 
judged conservative enough and could overall be aligned for paediatric patients, especially having in 
mind that this paediatric population is expected to be closely managed in clinical practice. As regards 
the need for treatment interruption in paediatric patients, it was considered that instead of stating a 
specific threshold for withdrawal, as in adults, it would be more appropriate to give a general message 
that significant laboratory abnormality suggestive of renal toxicity during treatment should trigger 
specialised consultation. 
As regards bone toxicity, the SAG members have considered that it is currently questioned whether the 
observed toxicity of the drug could be of any long term consequence. Therefore the discussion on the 
benefit/risk could be balancing theoretical risks versus established benefit (virological suppression). 
When considering the need for specific monitoring, the SAG members refute the value of any BMD 
monitoring given the lack of established correlation with clinical events. Furthermore it represents a 
burden for paediatric patients and raises practical and technical issues. As regards the need for 
phosphate and Vit D supplementation, the SAG members have considered that there was no apparent 
reason to deviate from the general attitude which prevails in clinical practice for a population in active 
modelling process (i.e. supplementation is considered in case of significant depletion).  
The CHMP has agreed with the SAG views. The SmPC was revised to reflect the uncertainties 
associated with the long term effects of bone and renal toxicity.  Since, the reversibility of renal 
toxicity cannot be fully ascertained a multidisciplinary approach is recommended to adequately weigh 
on a case by case basis the benefit/risk balance of treatment and to decide on the appropriate 
monitoring during treatment (including decision for treatment withdrawal) and to consider the need for 
supplementation.  
To address bone safety concerns the applicant proposed a BMD monitoring at baseline and during 
therapy in at risk patients.  The CHMP did not agree to impose a BMD given the lack of established 
correlation with clinical event and given the burden it represents for paediatric patients as well 
acknowledging practical and technical issues.  
Furthermore the applicant was requested to perform additional studies. A separate post-authorisation 
study with a representative sample of HIV- and HBV infected children to help establish evidence-based 
strategies for management of TDF-associated renal and bone toxicity (protocol synopsis to be 
submitted by 31 December 2012) and a Drug Utilisation Study in HIV-1 and HBV-infected paediatric 
patients to follow-up the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures (draft synopsis to be 
submitted by 25 October 2012). 
In addition, the CHMP considered that the applicant should submit the following safety data: a 
cumulative review of renal tubulopathy reports in HIV-1 and HBV infected adult patients by 31 
December 2012. 
Details of these studies are detailed in the RMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 40/59
 
 
 
 
 
1.7.  Pharmacovigilance system 
Risk management plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation. The RMP 
addressed the safety concerns identified with tenofovir. 
Risk minimisation plan 
The applicant proposed a HIV paediatric educational brochure for children and adolescents aged 2 to 
<18 years to address renal and bone toxicity and to include dosing recommendations on this 
population, in addition to the educational brochure for adults. The CHMP recognises the need of this 
educational material and formalised the ongoing activities in Annex II. The key messages are reflected 
in annex II of the product information. The CHMP requested the review of the HIV educational 
brochure for children and adolescents aged 2 to <18 years. 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety 
Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (routine 
and additional) 
Important Identified Risks 
Renal Toxicity  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities including 
a renal 
tubulopathy 
targeted follow-up 
questionnaire for 
postmarketing 
reports 
Observational 
study 
(GS-US-104-0353) 
Cumulative review 
of reversibility of 
renal tubulopathy 
in HIV-1 and HBV 
infected adult 
patients 
Monitoring of renal 
parameters in HIV-
1 and HBV infected 
adult and pediatric 
subjects in clinical 
studies who 
discontinue 
tenofovir DF due to 
renal tubulopathy 
Post-authorization 
safety study of 
HIV-1 and HBV 
infected pediatric 
Proposed Risk Minimization Activities  
(routine and additional) 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
Current approved Viread SmPC text is as follows: 
Statements in Section 4.2 of the Viread SmPC: 
Tenofovir is eliminated by renal excretion and the exposure to 
tenofovir increases in patients with renal dysfunction. There are limited 
data on the safety and efficacy of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in 
patients with moderate and severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance  50 ml/min) and long term safety data has not been 
evaluated for mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50-80 
ml/min). Therefore, in patients with renal impairment tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate should only be used if the potential benefits of 
treatment are considered to outweigh the potential risks. Dose interval 
adjustments are recommended for patients with creatinine clearance 
 50 ml/min. 
Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50–80 ml/min): Limited 
data from clinical studies support once daily dosing of tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate in patients with mild renal impairment. 
Moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30–49 ml/min): 
Administration of 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate) every 
48 hours is recommended based on modeling of single-dose 
pharmacokinetic data in HIV negative and non-HBV infected subjects 
with varying degrees of renal impairment, including end-stage renal 
disease requiring haemodialysis, but has not been confirmed in clinical 
studies. Therefore, clinical response to treatment and renal function 
should be closely monitored in these patients. 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance  30 ml/min) and 
haemodialysis patients: Adequate dose adjustments cannot be applied 
due to lack of alternative tablet strengths, therefore use in this group 
of patients is not recommended. If no alternative treatment is 
available, prolonged dose intervals may be used as follows: 
Severe renal impairment: 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate) 
may be administered every 72–96 hours (dosing twice a week). 
Haemodialysis patients: 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate) may 
be administered every 7 days following completion of a haemodialysis 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 41/59
 
 
 
 
patients  
Drug Utilization 
Study in HIV-1 and 
HBV infected 
pediatric patients 
session*. 
These dose adjustments have not been confirmed in clinical studies. 
Simulations suggest that the prolonged dose interval is not optimal and 
could result in increased toxicity and possibly inadequate response. 
Therefore clinical response to treatment and renal function should be 
closely monitored. 
* Generally, once weekly dosing assuming three haemodialysis 
sessions per week, each of approximately 4 hours duration or after 
12 hours cumulative haemodialysis. 
No dosing recommendations can be given for non-haemodialysis 
patients with creatinine clearance < 10 ml/min. 
Warnings in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC: 
Co-administration of other medicinal products: Viread should not be 
administered concomitantly with other medicinal products containing 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. 
Renal function: Renal safety with tenofovir has only been studied to a 
very limited degree in patients with impaired renal function (creatinine 
clearance  80 ml/min). 
It is recommended that creatinine clearance is calculated in all patients 
prior to initiating therapy with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and renal 
function (creatinine clearance and serum phosphate) is also monitored 
every four weeks during the first year, and then every three months. 
In patients at risk for renal impairment, including patients who have 
previously experienced renal events while receiving adefovir dipivoxil, 
consideration should be given to more frequent monitoring of renal 
function. 
Patients with creatinine clearance  50 ml/min, including haemodialysis 
patients: There are limited data on the safety and efficacy of tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate in patients with impaired renal function. Therefore, 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate should only be used if the potential 
benefits of treatment are considered to outweigh the potential risks. In 
patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance  30 
ml/min) and in patients who require haemodialysis use of tenofovir is 
not recommended. If no alternative treatment is available, the dosing 
interval must be adjusted and renal function should be closely 
monitored. 
If serum phosphate is  1.5 mg/dl (0.48 mmol/l) or creatinine 
clearance is decreased to  50 ml/min in any patient receiving 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, renal function should be re-evaluated 
within one week, including measurements of blood glucose, blood 
potassium and urine glucose concentrations. Consideration should also 
be given to interrupting treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in 
patients with creatinine clearance decreased to  50 ml/min or 
decreases in serum phosphate to  1.0 mg/dl (0.32 mmol/l). 
Use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate should be avoided with concurrent 
or recent use of a nephrotoxic medicinal product (e.g. 
aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, foscarnet, ganciclovir, pentamidine, 
vancomycin, cidofovir or interleukin-2). If concomitant use of tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate and nephrotoxic agents is unavoidable, renal 
function should be monitored weekly. 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate has not been clinically evaluated in 
patients receiving medicinal products which are secreted by the same 
renal pathway, including the transport proteins human organic anion 
transporter (hOAT) 1 and 3 or MRP 4 (e.g. cidofovir, a known 
nephrotoxic medicinal product). These renal transporter proteins may 
be responsible for tubular secretion and in part, renal elimination of 
tenofovir and cidofovir. Consequently, the pharmacokinetics of these 
medicinal products which are secreted by the same renal pathway 
including transport proteins hOAT 1 and 3 or MRP 4 might be modified 
if they are co-administered. Unless clearly necessary, concomitant use 
of these medicinal products which are secreted by the same renal 
pathway is not recommended, but if such use is unavoidable, renal 
function should be monitored weekly. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 42/59
 
 
 
 
 
Bone abnormalities (infrequently contributing to fractures) may be 
associated with proximal renal tubulopathy. If bone abnormalities are 
suspected then appropriate consultation should be obtained. 
Statements in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC: 
a. Summary of the safety profile 
HIV-1 and hepatitis B: In patients receiving tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate, rare events of renal impairment, renal failure and proximal 
renal tubulopathy (including Fanconi syndrome) sometimes leading to 
bone abnormalities (infrequently contributing to fractures) have been 
reported. Monitoring of renal function is recommended for patients 
receiving Viread (see section 4.4). 
c. Description of selected adverse reactions 
HIV-1 and hepatitis B:  
Renal impairment: As Viread may cause renal damage monitoring of 
renal function is recommended (see sections 4.4 and 4.8a). 
e. Other special population(s) 
Patients with renal impairment: Since tenofovir disoproxil fumarate can 
cause renal toxicity, close monitoring of renal function is recommended 
in any patient with renal impairment treated with Viread 
(see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2). 
Adverse reactions in Section 4.8b of the Viread SmPC: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Uncommon: increased creatinine 
Rare: acute renal failure, renal failure, acute tubular necrosis, proximal 
renal tubulopathy (including Fanconi syndrome), nephritis (including 
acute interstitial nephritis), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus  
Metabolism and nutrition disorders: 
Very common: hypophosphataemia* 
Uncommon: hypokalaemia* 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: 
Uncommon: rhabdomyolysis*, muscular weakness* 
Rare: osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and infrequently 
contributing to fractures)*, myopathy* 
* This adverse reaction may occur as a consequence of proximal renal 
tubulopathy. It is not considered to be causally associated with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in the absence of this condition. 
Update of labeling as appropriate 
Proposed additional Viread SmPC text specific to the treatment of 
pediatric patients is as follows (based on proposed updates to the 
Viread 245 mg SmPC): 
Statement in Section 4.2 of the Viread SmPC: 
The use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not recommended in 
paediatric patients with renal impairment (see section 4.4). 
Statements in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC: 
Renal and bone effects in paediatric population 
There are uncertainties associated with the long term effects of bone 
and renal toxicity. Moreover, the reversibility of renal toxicity cannot 
be fully ascertained.  Therefore, a multidisciplinary approach is 
recommended to adequately weigh on a case by case basis the 
benefit/risk balance of treatment, decide the appropriate monitoring 
during treatment (including decision for treatment withdrawal) and 
consider the need for supplementation. 
Renal effects 
Renal adverse reactions consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy 
have been reported in HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 
years in clinical study GS-US-104-0352 (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Renal monitoring 
Renal function (creatinine clearance and serum phosphate) should be 
evaluated prior to treatment and monitored during treatment as in 
adults (see above). 
Renal management 
If serum phosphate is confirmed to be < 3.0 mg/dl (0.96 mmol/l) in 
any paediatric patient receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, renal 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 43/59
 
 
 
 
function should be re-evaluated within one week, including 
measurements of blood glucose, blood potassium and urine glucose 
concentrations (see section 4.8, proximal tubulopathy).  If renal 
abnormalities are suspected or detected then consultation with a 
nephrologist should be obtained to consider interruption of tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate treatment. 
Co-administration and risk of renal toxicity 
The same recommendations apply as in adults (see above). 
Renal impairment 
The use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not recommended in 
paediatric patients with renal impairment (see section 4.2).  Tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate should not be initiated in paediatric patients with 
renal impairment and should be discontinued in paediatric patients who 
develop renal impairment during tenofovir disoproxil fumarate therapy. 
Statement in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC: 
Paediatric population 
HIV-1 
Of 89 patients (2 to < 12 years) who received tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate in study GS-US-104-0352 (median exposure 104 weeks), 4 
patients discontinued from the study due to adverse reactions 
consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy. 
Statements in Section 5.1 of the Viread SmPC 
Paediatric population:  
HIV-1: 
In study GS-US-104-0352, 4 out of 89 paediatric patients exposed to 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate discontinued due to adverse reactions 
consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy (median tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate exposure was 104 weeks). 
Additional Risk Minimization Activities 
Educational initiatives (‘HIV and the Kidney’ educational program, renal 
educational program for HBV, educational brochures distributed to 
prescribers). 
Update of educational program as appropriate 
Following the approval of the pediatric applications, renal risk 
minimization activities will be updated to include information on HIV-1 
infected children and adolescents and HBV infected adolescents.  
Educational brochures specific to the use of Viread in these pediatric 
populations will be distributed to pediatric prescribers. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
Current approved Viread SmPC text is as follows: 
Statements in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC: 
Bone effects: In HIV infected patients, in a 144-week controlled clinical 
study that compared tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with stavudine in 
combination with lamivudine and efavirenz in antiretroviral-naïve 
patients, small decreases in bone mineral density of the hip and spine 
were observed in both treatment groups. Decreases in bone mineral 
density of spine and changes in bone biomarkers from baseline were 
significantly greater in the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment 
group at 144 weeks. Decreases in bone mineral density of hip were 
significantly greater in this group until 96 weeks. However, there was 
no increased risk of fractures or evidence for clinically relevant bone 
abnormalities over 144 weeks.  
Bone abnormalities (infrequently contributing to fractures) may be 
associated with proximal renal tubulopathy. If bone abnormalities are 
suspected then appropriate consultation should be obtained. 
Paediatric population: Viread may cause a reduction in BMD. The 
effects of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-associated changes in BMD on 
long-term bone health and future fracture risk are currently unknown 
(see section 5.1). 
Statements in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC 
a. Summary of the safety profile 
HIV-1 and hepatitis B: In patients receiving tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate, rare events of renal impairment, renal failure and proximal 
Bone events 
due to 
proximal 
renal 
tubulopathy/l
oss of bone 
mineral 
density 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities including 
monitoring and 
review in PSURs. 
Clinical studies 
(GS-99-903, 
GS-US-236-0103 
GS-US-174-0102, 
GS-US-174-0103, 
GS-US-174-0115, 
GS-US-174-0121, 
GS-US-104-0321, 
GS-US-104-0352) 
Retrospective 
analyses of 
pediatric BMD Z-
scores adjusted by 
height 
(GS-US-174-0115, 
GS-US-104-0321, 
GS-US-104-0352) 
Planned clinical 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 44/59
 
 
 
 
study in HBV 
infected pediatric 
patients 
(GS-US-174-0144) 
Post-authorization 
safety study of 
HIV-1 and HBV 
infected pediatric 
patients  
Drug Utilization 
Study in HIV-1 and 
HBV infected 
pediatric patients 
Planned cross-
sectional study to 
assess BMD in 
HIV-1 infected 
patients of interest 
who include those 
over 50 years of 
age, particularly 
women, and who 
have been exposed 
to tenofovir DF for 
at least 3 years 
(GS-US-104-
0423). 
renal tubulopathy (including Fanconi syndrome) sometimes leading to 
bone abnormalities (infrequently contributing to fractures) have been 
reported. Monitoring of renal function is recommended for patients 
receiving Viread (see section 4.4). 
Adverse reactions in Section 4.8b of the Viread SmPC 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: 
Rare: osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and infrequently 
contributing to fractures)1,2 
1 This adverse reaction may occur as a consequence of proximal renal 
tubulopathy. It is not considered to be causally associated with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in the absence of this condition. 
2 This adverse reaction was identified through post-marketing 
surveillance but not observed in randomized controlled clinical trials or 
the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate expanded access program. The 
frequency category was estimated from a statistical calculation based 
on the total number of patients exposed to tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate in randomized clinical trials and the expanded access 
program (n = 7,319). 
Statements in Section 5.1 of the Viread SmPC 
Paediatric population:  
HIV-1: In study GS-US-104-0321, 87 HIV-1 infected treatment 
experienced patients 12 to < 18 years of age were treated with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (n = 45) or placebo (n = 42) in 
combination with an optimised background regimen (OBR) for 48 
weeks.  
In patients who received treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
or placebo, mean lumbar spine BMD Z-score was -1.004 and -0.809, 
and mean total body BMD Z-score was -0.866 and -0.584, 
respectively, at baseline. Mean changes at week 48 (end of 
double-blind phase) were -0.215 and -0.165 in lumbar spine 
BMD Z-score, and -0.254 and -0.179 in total body BMD Z-score for the 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and placebo groups, respectively. The 
mean rate of BMD gain was less in the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
group compared to the placebo group. At week 48, six adolescents in 
the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate group and one adolescent in the 
placebo group had significant lumbar spine BMD loss (defined as > 4% 
loss). Among 28 patients receiving 96 weeks of treatment with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, BMD Z-scores declined by -0.341 for 
lumbar spine and -0.458 for total body. 
Update of labeling as appropriate 
Proposed additional Viread SmPC text specific to the treatment of 
pediatric patients is as follows: 
Statements in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC: 
Renal and bone effects in paediatric population 
There are uncertainties associated with the long term effects of bone 
and renal toxicity. Moreover, the reversibility of renal toxicity cannot 
be fully ascertained.  Therefore, a multidisciplinary approach is 
recommended to adequately weigh on a case by case basis the 
benefit/risk balance of treatment, decide the appropriate monitoring 
during treatment (including decision for treatment withdrawal) and 
consider the need for supplementation. 
Bone effects: 
If bone abnormalities are detected or suspected in paediatric patients, 
consultation with an endocrinologist and/or nephrologist should be 
obtained. 
Statement in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC: 
Paediatric population 
HIV-1 
Reductions in BMD have been reported in paediatric patients.  In HIV-1 
infected adolescents, the BMD Z-scores observed in subjects who 
received tenofovir disoproxil fumarate were lower than those observed 
in subjects who received placebo.  In HIV-1 infected children, the BMD 
Z-scores observed in subjects who switched to tenofovir disoproxil 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 45/59
 
 
 
 
 
fumarate were lower than those observed in subjects who remained on 
their stavudine- or zidovudine-containing regimen (see sections 4.4 
and 5.1). 
Chronic hepatitis B 
Reductions in BMD have been observed in HBV-infected adolescents.  
The BMD Z-scores observed in subjects who received tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate were lower than those observed in subjects who 
received placebo (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Statements in Section 5.1 of the Viread SmPC 
In study GS-US-104-0352, 97 treatment experienced patients 2 to < 
12 years of age with stable, virologic suppression on stavudine- or 
zidovudine-containing regimens were randomised to either replace 
stavudine or zidovudine with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (n = 48) or 
continue on their original regimen (n = 49) for 48 weeks.   
Reductions in BMD have been reported in paediatric patients. In 
patients who received treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, or 
stavudine or zidovudine, mean lumbar spine BMD Z-score was -1.034 
and -0.498, and mean total body BMD Z-score was -0.471 and -0.386, 
respectively, at baseline.  Mean changes at week 48 (end of 
randomised phase) were 0.032 and 0.087 in lumbar spine BMD 
Z-score, and -0.184 and -0.027 in total body BMD Z-score for the 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and stavudine or zidovudine groups, 
respectively.  The mean rate of lumbar spine bone gain at week 48 was 
similar between the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment group and 
the stavudine or zidovudine treatment group.  Total body bone gain 
was less in the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment group 
compared to the stavudine or zidovudine treatment group.  One 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treated subject and no stavudine or 
zidovudine treated subjects experienced significant (> 4%) lumbar 
spine BMD loss at week 48.  BMD Z-scores declined by -0.012 for 
lumbar spine and by -0.338 for total body in the 64 subjects who were 
treated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for 96 weeks. BMD Z-scores 
were not adjusted for height and weight. 
Chronic hepatitis B: In study GS-US-174-0115, 106 HBeAg negative 
and HBeAg positive patients aged 12 to < 18 years with chronic HBV 
infection [HBV DNA ≥ 105 copies/ml, elevated serum ALT (≥ 2 x ULN) 
or a history of elevated serum ALT levels in the past 24 months] were 
treated with tenofovir disoproxil 245 mg (as fumarate) (n = 52) or 
placebo (n = 54) for 72 weeks.  
No subjects met the primary safety endpoint of a 6% decrease in 
lumbar spine BMD.  In subjects receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
or placebo, mean (SD) lumbar spine BMD Z-score was -0.43 (0.764) 
and -0.28 (0.813), and mean total body BMD Z-score was -0.20 
(1.126) and -0.26 (0.878), respectively, at baseline.  The mean (SD) 
change in lumbar spine BMD Z-score from baseline to week 72 in 
subjects receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was -0.05 (0.310) and 
0.07 (0.377) in those receiving placebo.  BMD Z-scores were not 
adjusted for height and weight. The mean change in whole body BMD 
Z-score in subjects receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was -0.15 
(0.379) and 0.06 (0.361) in those receiving placebo.  The mean 
percentage increase in whole body and lumbar spine BMD from 
baseline to week 72 was 2.84% and 4.95%, respectively, in subjects 
receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.  These mean percentage 
increases in whole body and lumbar spine BMD were 2.53% and 
3.19% less, respectively, when compared to subjects receiving 
placebo.  Three subjects in the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate group and 
2 subjects in the placebo group had a decrease of > 4% in spine BMD. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
Statement in Section 4.2 of the Viread SmPC: 
If Viread is discontinued in patients with chronic hepatitis B with or 
without HIV co-infection, these patients should be closely monitored 
for evidence of exacerbation of hepatitis (see Section 4.4). 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC: 
Page 46/59
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Post-
treatment 
hepatic flares 
in HBV 
monoinfected 
and HIV/HBV 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
 
 
 
 
coinfected 
patients 
Interaction 
with 
didanosine 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Pancreatitis 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Lactic acidosis  Routine 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Flares after treatment discontinuation: Acute exacerbation of hepatitis 
has also been reported in patients who have discontinued hepatitis B 
therapy. Post-treatment exacerbations are usually associated with 
rising HBV DNA, and the majority appears to be self-limited. However, 
severe exacerbations, including fatalities, have been reported. Hepatic 
function should be monitored at repeated intervals with both clinical 
and laboratory follow-up for at least 6 months after discontinuation of 
hepatitis B therapy. If appropriate, resumption of hepatitis B therapy 
may be warranted. In patients with advanced liver disease or cirrhosis, 
treatment discontinuation is not recommended since post-treatment 
exacerbation of hepatitis may lead to hepatic decompensation. 
Liver flares are especially serious, and sometimes fatal in patients with 
decompensated liver disease. 
Statements in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC: 
a. Summary of the safety profile  
Acute exacerbation of hepatitis has been reported in patients on 
treatment as well as in patients who have discontinued hepatitis B 
therapy (see section 4.4). 
c. Description of selected adverse reactions 
Exacerbations of hepatitis after discontinuation of treatment: In HBV 
infected patients, clinical and laboratory evidence of exacerbations of 
hepatitis have occurred after discontinuation of HBV therapy (see 
section 4.4). 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC (interaction also described 
in Section 4.5): 
Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine is 
not recommended. Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
and didanosine results in a 40–60% increase in systemic exposure to 
didanosine that may increase the risk of didanosine-related adverse 
reactions. Rarely, pancreatitis and lactic acidosis, sometimes fatal, 
have been reported. Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
and didanosine at a dose of 400 mg daily has been associated with a 
significant decrease in CD4 cell count, possibly due to an intracellular 
interaction increasing phosphorylated (i.e. active) didanosine. A 
decreased dosage of 250 mg didanosine co-administered with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate therapy has been associated with reports of high 
rates of virological failure within several tested combinations for the 
treatment of HIV-1 infection. 
Statements in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC: 
a. Summary of the safety profile  
Co- administration of Viread and didanosine is not recommended as 
this may result in an increased risk of adverse reactions (see section 
4.5). Rarely, pancreatitis and lactic acidosis, sometimes fatal, have 
been reported (see section 4.4). 
c. Description of selected adverse reactions 
Interaction with didanosine: Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate and didanosine is not recommended as it results in a 40-60% 
increase in systemic exposure to didanosine that may increase the risk 
of didanosine-related adverse reactions (see section 4.5). Rarely, 
pancreatitis and lactic acidosis, sometimes fatal, have been reported. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
Pancreatitis is listed in Section 4.8b of the Viread SmPC: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Uncommon: pancreatitis 
There are also warning statements in Sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8 of the 
Viread SmPC regarding the risk of pancreatitis associated with the 
interaction with didanosine (see above). 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC: 
Page 47/59
 
 
 
 
and severe 
hepatomegaly 
with steatosis 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Lipodystrophy  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Lactic acidosis: Lactic acidosis, usually associated with hepatic 
steatosis, has been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues. The 
preclinical and clinical data suggest that the risk of occurrence of lactic 
acidosis, a class effect of nucleoside analogues, is low for tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate. However, as tenofovir is structurally related to 
nucleoside analogues, this risk cannot be excluded. Early symptoms 
(symptomatic hyperlactataemia) include benign digestive symptoms 
(nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain), non specific malaise, loss of 
appetite, weight loss, respiratory symptoms (rapid and/or deep 
breathing) or neurological symptoms (including motor weakness). 
Lactic acidosis has a high mortality and may be associated with 
pancreatitis, liver failure or renal failure. Lactic acidosis generally 
occurred after a few or several months of treatment. 
Treatment with nucleoside analogues should be discontinued in the 
setting of symptomatic hyperlactataemia and metabolic/lactic acidosis, 
progressive hepatomegaly, or rapidly elevating aminotransferase 
levels. 
Caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogues 
to any patient (particularly obese women) with hepatomegaly, 
hepatitis or other known risk factors for liver disease and hepatic 
steatosis (including certain medicinal products and alcohol). Patients 
co-infected with hepatitis C and treated with alpha interferon and 
ribavirin may constitute a special risk. 
Patients at increased risk should be followed closely. 
Statements in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC: 
a. Summary of the safety profile  
Lactic acidosis, severe hepatomegaly with steatosis and lipodystrophy 
are associated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (see sections 4.4 and 
4.8c). 
c. Description of selected adverse reactions 
Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis: Lactic acidosis, 
usually associated with hepatic steatosis, has been reported with the 
use of nucleoside analogues. Treatment with nucleoside analogues 
should be discontinued in the setting of symptomatic hyperlactataemia 
and metabolic/lactic acidosis, progressive hepatomegaly, or rapidly 
elevating aminotransferase levels (see section 4.4). 
Lactic acidosis is listed in Section 4.8b of the Viread SmPC: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders: 
Rare: lactic acidosis 
There are also warning statements in Section 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8 of the 
Viread SmPC regarding the risk of lactic acidosis associated with the 
interaction with didanosine (see above). 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
Precautionary statements in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC: 
Lipodystrophy: Combination antiretroviral therapy has been associated 
with the redistribution of body fat (lipodystrophy) in HIV patients. The 
long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. 
Knowledge about the mechanism is incomplete. A connection between 
visceral lipomatosis and protease inhibitors and lipoatrophy and 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors has been hypothesised. A 
higher risk of lipodystrophy has been associated with individual factors 
such as older age, and with drug related factors such as longer 
duration of antiretroviral treatment and associated metabolic 
disturbances. Clinical examination should include evaluation for 
physical signs of fat redistribution. Consideration should be given to 
the measurement of fasting serum lipids and blood glucose. Lipid 
disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate. 
Tenofovir is structurally related to nucleoside analogues hence the risk 
of lipodystrophy cannot be excluded. However, 144-week clinical data 
from antiretroviral-naïve HIV infected patients indicate that the risk of 
lipodystrophy was lower with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate than with 
stavudine when administered with lamivudine and efavirenz. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 48/59
 
 
 
 
Important Potential Risks 
Development 
of resistance 
during 
long-term 
exposure in 
HBV infected 
patients 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical studies 
(GS-US-174-0102, 
GS-US-174-0103, 
GS-US-174-0121) 
Statements in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC: 
a. Summary of the safety profile  
Lactic acidosis, severe hepatomegaly with steatosis and lipodystrophy 
are associated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (see sections 4.4 and 
4.8c). 
c. Description of selected adverse reactions 
Combination antiretroviral therapy has been associated with 
redistribution of body fat (lipodystrophy) in HIV patients including the 
loss of peripheral and facial subcutaneous fat, increased 
intra-abdominal and visceral fat, breast hypertrophy and dorsocervical 
fat accumulation (buffalo hump). 
In a 144-week controlled clinical study in antiretroviral-naïve patients 
that compared tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with stavudine in 
combination with lamivudine and efavirenz, patients who received 
tenofovir disoproxil had a significantly lower incidence of lipodystrophy 
compared with patients who received stavudine. The tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate arm also had significantly smaller mean increases 
in fasting triglycerides and total cholesterol than the comparator arm. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
Section 5.1 of the Viread SmPC states the following: 
Resistance: No HBV mutations associated with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate resistance have been identified. In cell based assays, HBV 
strains expressing the rtV173L, rtL180M, and rtM204I/V mutations 
associated with resistance to lamivudine and telbivudine showed a 
susceptibility to tenofovir ranging from 0.7- to 3.4-fold that of wild-type 
virus. HBV strains expressing the rtL180M, rtT184G, rtS202G/I, 
rtM204V and rtM250V mutations associated with resistance to entecavir 
showed a susceptibility to tenofovir ranging from 0.6- to 6.9-fold that of 
wild-type virus. HBV strains expressing the adefovir-associated 
resistance mutations rtA181V and rtN236T showed a susceptibility to 
tenofovir ranging from 2.9- to 10-fold that of wild-type virus. Viruses 
containing the rtA181T mutation remained susceptible to tenofovir with 
EC 50 values 1.5-fold that of wild-type virus. 
Clinical resistance: Four hundred and twenty-six HBeAg negative 
(GS-US-174-0102, n = 250) and HBeAg positive (GS-US-174-0103, 
n = 176) patients were evaluated for genotypic changes in HBV 
polymerase from baseline. Genotypic evaluations performed on all 
patients initially randomised to the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate arm 
(i.e excluding patients who received double-blind adefovir dipivoxil and 
then switched to open-label tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) with HBV 
DNA > 400 copies/ml at week 48 (n = 39), week 96 (n = 24) and week 
144 (n = 6) and week 192 (n = 5) on tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
monotherapy, showed that no mutations associated with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate resistance have developed. 
In study GS-US-174-0108, 45 patients (including 9 patients with 
lamivudine and/or adefovir dipivoxil resistance mutations at baseline) 
received tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for up to 48 weeks. Genotypic 
data from paired baseline and on treatment HBV isolates were available 
for 6/8 patients with HBV DNA > 400 copies/ml. No amino acid 
substitutions associated with resistance to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
were identified in these isolates. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Important Missing Information 
Safety in 
children 
(including 
long-term 
safety) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical studies in 
HIV-1 infected 
children 
(GS-US-104-0321, 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
Current approved Viread SmPC text is as follows: 
Statement in Section 4.2 of the Viread SmPC: 
Paediatric population: Viread is not recommended for use in children 
The clinical data available in HIV-1 infected adolescents are inadequate 
to support the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in this population 
and no data are currently available in younger children. 
No data are currently available in paediatric patients infected with 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 49/59
 
 
 
 
GS-US-104-0352) 
Clinical study in HBV 
infected adolescents 
(GS-US-174-0115) 
Planned clinical 
study, including a 
PK substudy, in HBV 
infected children 
aged 2 to < 12 
years (GS-US-174-
0144) 
Planned PK 
bioavailability study 
of TDF granules in 
the fed state 
Post-authorization 
safety study of 
HIV-1 and HBV 
infected pediatric 
patients  
Drug Utilization 
Study in HIV-1 and 
HBV infected 
pediatric patients 
chronic hepatitis B. 
Statement in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC: 
Viread may cause a reduction in BMD. The effects of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate-associated changes in BMD on long-term bone health and 
future fracture risk are currently unknown. 
Statement in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC: 
d. Paediatric population 
Assessment of adverse reactions is based on one randomised trial 
(study GS-US-104-0321) in 87 HIV-1 infected adolescent patients (aged 
12 to < 18 years) who received treatment with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate (n = 45) or placebo (n = 42) in combination with other 
antiretroviral agents for 48 weeks. 
Statements in Section 5.1 of the Viread SmPC: 
Paediatric population:  
HIV-1: In study GS-US-104-0321, 87 HIV-1 infected 
treatment-experienced patients 12 to < 18 years of age were treated 
with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (n = 45) or placebo (n = 42) in 
combination with an optimised background regimen (OBR) for 
48 weeks.  
In patients who received treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or 
placebo, mean lumbar spine BMD Z-score was -1.004 and -0.809, and 
mean total body BMD Z-score was -0.866 and -0.584, respectively, at 
baseline. Mean changes at week 48 (end of double-blind phase) 
were -0.215 and -0.165 in lumbar spine BMD Z-score, and -0.254 
and -0.179 in total body BMD Z-score for the tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate and placebo groups, respectively. The mean rate of BMD gain 
was less in the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate group compared to the 
placebo group. At week 48, six adolescents in the tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate group and one adolescent in the placebo group had significant 
lumbar spine BMD loss (defined as > 4% loss). Among 28 patients 
receiving 96 weeks of treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, 
BMD Z-scores declined by -0.341 for lumbar spine and -0.458 for total 
body. 
The efficacy and safety data derived from this study do not support the 
use of Viread in adolescents. 
Proposed additional Viread SmPC text specific to the treatment of 
pediatric patients is as follows (based on proposed updates to the 
Viread 245 mg SmPC): 
Statements in Section 4.2 of the Viread SmPC: 
Paediatric population 
HIV-1: The safety and efficacy of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in HIV-1 
infected children under 2 years of age have not been established.  No 
data are available. 
Chronic hepatitis B: The safety and efficacy of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate in children with chronic hepatitis B aged 2 to < 12 years or 
weighing < 35 kg have not been established.  No data are available. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment: The use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not 
recommended in paediatric patients with renal impairment (see section 
4.4). 
Statements in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC: 
Renal and bone effects in paediatric population 
There are uncertainties associated with the long term effects of bone 
and renal toxicity. Moreover, the reversibility of renal toxicity cannot be 
fully ascertained.  Therefore, a multidisciplinary approach is 
recommended to adequately weigh on a case by case basis the 
benefit/risk balance of treatment, decide the appropriate monitoring 
during treatment (including decision for treatment withdrawal) and 
consider the need for supplementation. 
Renal effects 
Renal adverse reactions consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy 
have been reported in HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged 2 to <12 
years in clinical study GS-US-104-0352 (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 50/59
 
 
 
 
Renal monitoring 
Renal function (creatinine clearance and serum phosphate) should be 
evaluated prior to treatment and monitored during treatment as in 
adults (see above). 
Renal management 
If serum phosphate is confirmed to be < 3.0 mg/dl (0.96 mmol/l) in any 
paediatric patient receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, renal function 
should be re-evaluated within one week, including measurements of 
blood glucose, blood potassium and urine glucose concentrations (see 
section 4.8, proximal tubulopathy).  If renal abnormalities are 
suspected or detected then consultation with a nephrologist should be 
obtained to consider interruption of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
treatment. 
Co-administration and risk of renal toxicity 
The same recommendations apply as in adults (see above). 
Renal impairment 
The use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not recommended in 
paediatric patients with renal impairment (see section 4.2).  Tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate should not be initiated in paediatric patients with 
renal impairment and should be discontinued in paediatric patients who 
develop renal impairment during tenofovir disoproxil fumarate therapy. 
Bone effects:  
If bone abnormalities are detected or suspected in paediatric patients,, 
consultation with an endocrinologist and/or nephrologist should be 
obtained. 
Statements in Section 4.8 of the Viread SmPC: 
Paediatric population 
HIV-1: 
Assessment of adverse reactions is based on two randomised trials 
(studies GS-US-104-0321 and GS-US-104-0352) in 184 HIV-1 infected 
paediatric patients (aged 2 to < 18 years) who received treatment with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (n = 93) or placebo/active comparator 
(n = 91) in combination with other antiretroviral agents for 48 weeks 
(see section 5.1).  The adverse reactions observed in paediatric patients 
who received treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate were 
consistent with those observed in clinical studies of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate in adults (see section 4.8 Tabulated summary of adverse 
reactions and 5.1). 
Reductions in BMD have been reported in paediatric patients.  In HIV-1 
infected adolescents, the BMD Z-scores observed in subjects who 
received tenofovir disoproxil fumarate were lower than those observed 
in subjects who received placebo.  In HIV-1 infected children, the BMD 
Z-scores observed in subjects who switched to tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate were lower than those observed in subjects who remained on 
their stavudine- or zidovudine-containing regimen (see sections 4.4 and 
5.1). 
Of 89 patients (2 to < 12 years) who received tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate in study GS-US-104-0352 (median exposure 104 weeks), 4 
patients discontinued from the study due to adverse reactions 
consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy. 
Chronic hepatitis B: 
Assessment of adverse reactions is based on one randomised study 
(study GS-US-174-0115) in 106 adolescent patients (12 to < 18 years 
of age) with chronic hepatitis B receiving treatment with tenofovir 
disoproxil 245 mg (as fumarate) (n = 52) or placebo (n = 54) for 72 
weeks.  The adverse reactions observed in adolescent patients who 
received treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate were consistent 
with those observed in clinical studies of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in 
adults (see section 4.8 Tabulated summary of adverse reactions and 
5.1).  
Reductions in BMD have been observed in HBV-infected adolescents.  
The BMD Z-scores observed in subjects who received tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate were lower than those observed in subjects who 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 51/59
 
 
 
 
received placebo (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Statements in Section 5.1 of the Viread SmPC 
In study GS-US-104-0352, 97 treatment experienced patients 2 to < 12 
years of age with stable, virologic suppression on stavudine- or 
zidovudine-containing regimens were randomised to either replace 
stavudine or zidovudine with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (n = 48) or 
continue on their original regimen (n = 49) for 48 weeks.   
Reductions in BMD have been reported in paediatric patients. In 
patients who received treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, or 
stavudine or zidovudine, mean lumbar spine BMD Z-score was -1.034 
and -0.498, and mean total body BMD Z-score was -0.471 and -0.386, 
respectively, at baseline.  Mean changes at week 48 (end of randomised 
phase) were 0.032 and 0.087 in lumbar spine BMD Z-score, and -0.184 
and -0.027 in total body BMD Z-score for the tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate and stavudine or zidovudine groups, respectively.  The mean 
rate of lumbar spine bone gain at week 48 was similar between the 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment group and the stavudine or 
zidovudine treatment group.  Total body bone gain was less in the 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment group compared to the 
stavudine or zidovudine treatment group.  One tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate treated subject and no stavudine or zidovudine treated 
subjects experienced significant (> 4%) lumbar spine BMD loss at week 
48.  BMD Z-scores declined by -0.012 for lumbar spine and by -0.338 
for total body in the 64 subjects who were treated with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate for 96 weeks. BMD Z-scores were not adjusted for 
height and weight. 
In study GS-US-104-0352, 4 out of 89 paediatric patients exposed to 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate discontinued due to adverse reactions 
consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy (median tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate exposure was 104 weeks). 
Chronic hepatitis B: In study GS-US-174-0115, 106 HBeAg negative 
and HBeAg positive patients aged 12 to < 18 years with chronic HBV 
infection [HBV DNA ≥ 105 copies/ml, elevated serum ALT (≥ 2 x ULN) 
or a history of elevated serum ALT levels in the past 24 months] were 
treated with tenofovir disoproxil 245 mg (as fumarate) (n = 52) or 
placebo (n = 54) for 72 weeks.  
No subjects met the primary safety endpoint of a 6% decrease in 
lumbar spine BMD.  In subjects receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
or placebo, mean (SD) lumbar spine BMD Z-score was -0.43 (0.764) 
and -0.28 (0.813), and mean total body BMD Z-score was -0.20 (1.126) 
and -0.26 (0.878), respectively, at baseline.  The mean (SD) change in 
lumbar spine BMD Z-score from baseline to week 72 in subjects 
receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was -0.05 (0.310) and 0.07 
(0.377) in those receiving placebo.  The mean change in whole body 
BMD Z-score in subjects receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
was -0.15 (0.379) and 0.06 (0.361) in those receiving placebo. BMD 
Z-scores were not adjusted for height and weight. The mean percentage 
increase in whole body and lumbar spine BMD from baseline to week 72 
was 2.84% and 4.95%, respectively, in subjects receiving tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate.  These mean percentage increases in whole body 
and lumbar spine BMD were 2.53% and 3.19% less, respectively, when 
compared to subjects receiving placebo.  Three subjects in the tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate group and 2 subjects in the placebo group had a 
decrease of > 4% in spine BMD. 
The proposed Viread oral granules SmPC also contains statements 
indicating that limited clinical data are available at the 6.5 mg/kg dose 
of the oral granules and therefore close monitoring of efficacy and 
safety is needed, and that investigations are planned to further 
substantiate the dose in children from 2 years of age. 
Following the approval of the pediatric applications, renal risk 
minimization activities will be updated to include information on HIV-1 
infected children and adolescents and HBV infected adolescents.  
Educational brochures specific to the use of Viread in these pediatric 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 52/59
 
 
 
 
populations will be distributed to pediatric prescribers (see Renal Safety 
Concern). 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities  
Statements in Section 4.6 of the Viread SmPC: 
Pregnancy 
A moderate amount of data on pregnant women (between 
300-1,000 pregnancy outcomes) indicate no malformations or 
foetal/neonatal toxicity associated with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate. Animal studies do not indicate reproductive toxicity 
(see section 5.3). The use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
may be considered during pregnancy, if necessary. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities 
See Renal Safety Concern. 
A Type II variation application for tenofovir DF 40 mg/g 
granules is planned to be submitted by Q4 2012 to enable 
adjustment of daily dose as well as dose interval of tenofovir 
DF in HIV-1 infected and HBV infected adult patients with 
moderate or severe renal impairment. 
Safety in 
pregnancy 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Safety in 
patients 
with renal 
impairment 
Epidemiological studies 
(Antiretroviral Pregnancy 
Registry; Cross-sectional 
study to assess the risk of 
mitochondrial disease in 
children exposed to NRTIs in 
utero [MITOC group]) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Clinical study in HBV infected 
patients including patients 
with mild to moderate renal 
impairment (GS-US-174-
0121) 
Planned clinical study in HBV 
infected patients with 
moderate to severe renal 
impairment (GS-US-174-
0127) 
Safety in 
elderly 
patients 
Routine 
pharmaco
vigilance 
activities  
Safety in 
lactation 
Routine 
pharmaco
vigilance 
activities  
Safety in 
black HBV 
infected 
patients 
Routine 
pharmaco
vigilance 
activities 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the Viread SmPC (also in section 4.8e): 
Elderly; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate has not been studied in patients over the 
age of 65. Elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function; 
therefore caution should be exercised when treating elderly patients with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities  
Statements in Section 4.6 of the Viread SmPC: 
Breast-feeding 
Tenofovir has been shown to be excreted in human milk. There is insufficient 
information on the effects of tenofovir in newborns/infants. Therefore Viread 
should not be used during breast-feeding. 
As a general rule, it is recommended that HIV and HBV infected women do not 
breast-feed their infants in order to avoid transmission of HIV and HBV to the 
infant. 
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Routine Risk Minimization Activities  
Update of labeling as appropriate. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 53/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activity(ies) in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some 
of the safety concerns:  
Description 
Due date 
A PK bioavailability study to compare granules and oral 
31 August 2013 
tablet at fed state (with both a light and high fat meal) to 
further substantiate the conclusion that a similar dose 
can be given regardless of the formulation in this setting. 
Collection of PK data in study GS-US-174-0144 (HBV 
30 June 2014 
infected subjects 2 to < 12 years of age) to further 
substantiate the adequacy of the selected dose. 
Conduct a separate post-authorisation safety study with a 
Submit the protocol synopsis by 31 
representative sample of HIV- and HBV infected children 
December 2012. 
to help establish evidence-based strategies for 
management of TDF-associated renal and bone toxicity.  
Interim study results: 31 December 2014 
Final study results: 31 December 2016 
To conduct a Drug Utilisation Study in HIV-1 and HBV-
Submit draft synopsis by 25 October 2012 
infected paediatric patients to follow-up the effectiveness 
of the risk minimisation measures. 
Feasibility assessment alongside a full 
draft protocol expected: by 28 February 
2013. 
Interim study results: 31 December 2014 
Final study results: 31 December 2017 
In addition, to further evaluate the safety profile of the product, the CHMP requested the MAH to 
submit a cumulative review of renal tubulopathy reports in HIV-1 and HBV infected adult patients by 
31 December 2012. (LEG) 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below additional risk 
minimisation activities are required for the management of the safety profile of the product: 
Physician educational pack containing the Summary of Product Characteristics and an appropriate 
educational brochure, as detailed below: 
 
 
 
 
HIV renal educational brochure, including the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
HBV renal educational brochure, including the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
HIV paediatric educational brochure 
HBV paediatric educational brochure 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 54/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Benefit-risk balance 
Benefits  
Beneficial effects 
Given that the current backbone regimens are not only limited but also have limiting factors 
(hypersensitivity requesting HLA testing, anaemia, lipodystrophy), tenofovir represents an additional 
therapeutic option in children. Tenofovir is a widely used backbone regimen in adult patients due to its 
virological efficacy and high genetic barrier. Moreover, TDF is a once daily regimen, which is of interest 
especially in children. 
Extrapolation from the adult experience together with comparative PK data support the extension of 
indication in children. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Clinical demonstration in children is not aimed at duplicating the level of demonstration already derived 
from adults but rather at obtaining reassurance on the adequacy of the dose selected on the principle 
that similar PK exposure as in adults would predict similar efficacy in children.  
Determining an optimal dose in children is always a difficult exercise when having to conciliate limited 
sample size and several sources of variability. Even though the vast majority of children in this study 
had sustained adequate suppression at the 8mg/kg dose, further data is expected to give further 
reassurance on the dose. 
Furthermore the applicant is performing a comparability of the PK bioavailability between the granules 
and the oral tablet at fed state to provide further reassurance on the use under fed conditions. 
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
The renal and bone toxicity are a source of particular concern for the long-term use of TDF. This is true 
both for adults and for paediatric patients especially considering that they are in evolving modelling 
process. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The long-term effect of TDF on bone mineral acquisition during childhood and the potential reversibility 
of bone toxicity cannot be determined from the non clinical and clinical data available. However, it is 
acknowledged that given the lack of correlation between BMD and clinical events, it remains theoretical 
risk.  
Moreover, the reversibility of the renal toxicity cannot be fully ascertained. The CHMP requested a 
cumulative review of renal tubulopathy reports in HIV-1 and HBV infected adult patients to be 
submitted by 31 December 2012. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 55/59
 
 
 
 
Given the uncertainties related to the use of tenofovir in a population of active modelling process, the 
CHMP supports the use of tenofovir in the restricted population of treatment NRTI resistance or toxicity 
problems precluding the use of other first line agent’s population from 2 years of age.  
Moreover, warnings were added to the SmPC to alert physicians on the uncertainties on the long term 
effect of bone and renal toxicity and the fact that reversibility of renal toxicity cannot be fully 
ascertained. A statement was introduced to promote a multidisciplinary management of paediatric 
patients to adequately weigh the need for treatment, to adequately settle the monitoring and to 
foresee the need for supplementation. Promoting multidisciplinary approach appears pragmatic based 
on the SAG input that management is to be tailored to the child and mostly refer to good clinical 
practice in paediatric. Furthermore a separate post-authorisation study with a representative sample of 
HIV- and HBV infected children will help to establish evidence-based strategies for management of 
TDF-associated renal and bone toxicity. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk assessment 
Overall, further to the SAG input, the CHMP considers that Viread can be approved for the use in 
children from 2 years of age provided the indication is targeted to patients with NRTI resistance or 
toxicity problems precluding the use of first line agents. 
Overall, the CHMP consider that given the lack of correlation between BMD decrease and clinical event, 
long term effect of bone and renal toxicity remains theoretical whereas there are established benefits 
in a population of paediatric patients in need of treatment. However, there are uncertainties that per 
se mandate special consideration on the use of tenofovir in a population of active modelling process. 
Therefore the CHMP could support the use of tenofovir in the restricted population of paediatric 
patients with NRTI resistance or toxicity problems precluding the use of first line agents from 2 years 
of age. 
The SmPC was revised to include warnings to alert physicians on the uncertainties on the long term 
effect of bone and renal toxicity and the fact that reversibility of renal toxicity cannot be fully 
ascertained. A statement was introduced to promote a multidisciplinary management of paediatric 
patients to adequately weigh the need for treatment, to adequately settle the monitoring and to 
foresee the need for supplementation. Promoting multidisciplinary approach appears pragmatic based 
on the SAG input that management is to be tailored to the child and mostly refer to good clinical 
practice in paediatric. 
Further studies are included in the RMP that will help to further understand the safety in this 
population. 
Additionally, the CHMP agreed with the type IB variation for Viread 245 mg tablets to update the SmPC 
to make reference to the availability of the granules formulation. 
3.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of Viread in the treatment of paediatric patients with NRTI 
resistance or toxicity problems precluding the use of first line agents from 2 years of age, that the risk-
benefit balance of this new pharmaceutical form and strengths and that the reference to the 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 56/59
 
 
 
 
availability of the granule formulation is favourable and therefore recommends  the authorisation of 
this grouped application subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System and PSUR cycle 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan of the 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any 
subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow a yearly cycle until otherwise agreed by the CHMP. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to 
prescribe/use Viread in adults and/or paediatric patients are provided with a physician educational 
pack containing the Summary of Product Characteristics and an appropriate educational brochure, as 
detailed below: 
HIV renal educational brochure, including the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
HBV renal educational brochure, including the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
HIV paediatric educational brochure 
HBV paediatric educational brochure 
 
 
 
 
 
The HIV and HBV renal educational brochures should contain the following key messages: 
 
 
That there is an increased risk of renal disease in HIV and HBV infected patients associated with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-containing products such as Viread 
That Viread should only be used in patients with impaired renal function if the potential benefits 
of treatment are considered to outweigh the potential risks 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 57/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The importance of dose interval adjustment of Viread in adult patients with creatinine clearance 
of 30-49 ml/min 
That Viread is not recommended for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
< 30 ml/min).  If no alternative treatment is available, prolonged dose intervals may be used. 
That use of Viread should be avoided with concomitant or recent use of nephrotoxic medicinal 
products.  If Viread is used with nephrotoxic medicinal products, renal function should be closely 
monitored according to the recommended schedule. 
That patients should have their baseline renal function assessed prior to initiating Viread therapy 
The importance of regular monitoring of renal function during Viread therapy 
Recommended schedule for monitoring renal function considering the presence or absence of 
additional risk factors for renal impairment 
That if serum phosphate is < 1.5 mg/dl or creatinine clearance decreases during therapy to 
< 50 ml/min then renal function should be re-evaluated within one week.  If creatinine clearance 
is confirmed as < 50 ml/min or serum phosphate decreases to < 1.0 mg/dl then consideration 
should be given to interrupting Viread therapy. 
 
Instructions on the use of the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
The HIV and HBV paediatric educational brochure should contain the following key messages: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That a multidisciplinary approach is recommended for the management of paediatric patients 
That there is an increased risk of renal disease in HIV and HBV infected patients associated with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-containing products such as Viread 
That Viread is not recommended for use in paediatric patients with renal impairment 
That use of Viread should be avoided with concomitant or recent use of nephrotoxic medicinal 
products.  If Viread is used with nephrotoxic medicinal products, renal function should be closely 
monitored according to the recommended schedule. 
That patients should have their baseline renal function assessed prior to initiating Viread therapy 
The importance of regular monitoring of renal function during Viread therapy 
Recommended schedule for monitoring renal function considering the presence or absence of 
additional risk factors for renal impairment 
That if serum phosphate is confirmed to be < 3.0 mg/dl (0.96 mmol/l) in any paediatric patient 
receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, renal function should be re-evaluated within one week. If 
renal abnormalities are detected or suspected then consultation with a nephrologist should be 
obtained to consider interruption of Viread treatment 
That Viread may cause a reduction in BMD and the effects of Viread associated changes in BMD 
on long term bone health and future fracture risk are currently unknown in paediatric patients 
That if bone abnormalities are detected or suspected then consultation with an endocrinologist 
and/or nephrologist should be obtained 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 58/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan P/180/2011 and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary 
of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/797671/2012  
Page 59/59
 
 
 
 
 
 
