5 November 2021 
EMA/597325/2021 Rev. 21 
Shortage of Visudyne (verteporfin) 
15 mg powder for solution for infusion 
Indication 
Visudyne is used to treat adults with: 
Reason for shortage 
Member States affected2 
Monitoring of shortage 
•
•
the ‘wet’ form of age-related macular
degeneration (AMD), a disease that affects the
central part of the retina (called the macula) at
the back of the eye;
choroidal neovascularisation caused by
pathologic myopia.
In May 2020, the supply of Visudyne was 
interrupted due to a reduction in manufacturing 
capacity. The manufacturing process has been 
amended and production was restored in the first 
quarter of 2022, but with limited capacity. 
Quantities of Visudyne are therefore expected to be 
limited until the end of 2024. 
The shortage affects all Member States where the 
product is marketed. 
EMA’s SPOC working party3 is closely monitoring the 
supply situation and engaging with the marketing 
authorisation holder and other stakeholders to 
identify measures to mitigate the impact of the 
supply shortage (including the measures below). 
Summaries of the SPOC working party meetings can 
be found on EMA’s website. 
1 This document was modified on 12 August 2022 to update information regarding supplies of Visudyne and on 27 
June 2023 to reflect ongoing monitoring by EMA’s Medicines Shortages Single Point of Contact (SPOC) working 
party and additional measures to maintain supply. 
2 This information may change. For accurate information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular 
Member State the national competent authority should be contacted. 
3 The SPOC working party is responsible for monitoring and reporting events that could affect the supply of 
medicines in the EU. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Shortage of Visudyne (verteporfin) 
15 mg powder for solution for infusion 
Information to healthcare 
•  There is a shortage of Visudyne due to a 
professionals  
reduction in the company’s manufacturing 
capacities. 
•  The manufacturing process has been amended 
and production was restored in the first quarter 
of 2022, but with limited capacity. As a result, 
quantities of Visudyne are expected to be limited 
until the end of 2024. 
•  For age-related macular degeneration and 
subfoveal choroidal neovascularisation, 
healthcare professionals should use alternative 
treatments where possible. 
•  Visudyne is used off-label in a number of 
conditions. National competent authorities may 
have set up programmes to make Visudyne 
available under controlled conditions for these 
patients.  
•  A direct healthcare professional communication 
(DHPC) has been sent to healthcare 
professionals in affected member states. The 
DHPC is also available on the EMA website. 
•  Additional advice may be available from your 
national shortage register. 
Information to patients  
•  There is a shortage of Visudyne due to a problem 
in manufacturing capacity. Although the 
manufacturing process has been amended and 
production was restored, capacity is limited and 
quantities of Visudyne are expected to be limited 
until the end of 2024. 
If you are being treated for age-related macular 
degeneration or subfoveal choroidal 
neovascularisation, your doctor may prescribe 
another medicine. 
If you are being treated with Visudyne for 
another condition, please check with your doctor 
regarding treatment options. There may be a 
programme in your country to make the 
medicine available under controlled conditions. 
• 
• 
•  Additional advice may be available from your 
national shortage register. 
Status 
Ongoing 
Shortage of Visudyne (verteporfin) 
EMA/587325/2021  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
