EMA/31239/2016 
EMEA/H/C/000305 
EPAR summary for the public 
Visudyne 
verteporfin 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Visudyne. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Visudyne. 
What is Visudyne? 
Visudyne is a medicine that contains the active substance verteporfin. It is available as a powder that 
is made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. 
What is Visudyne used for? 
Visudyne is used to treat adults with: 
• 
the ‘wet’ form of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a disease which affects the central part 
of the retina (called the macula) at the back of the eye. The wet form of AMD is caused by 
choroidal neovascularisation (abnormal growth of blood vessels under the macula), which may leak 
fluid and blood and cause swelling. Visudyne is used when the neovascularisation is ‘predominantly 
classic’ (when the blood vessels affected are well defined on an eye scan) and subfoveal (occurs in 
the area under the fovea - the central area of the macula); 
• 
choroidal neovascularisation caused by pathologic myopia (a severe type of short-sightedness 
where the eyeball continues to grow, becoming longer than it should be). Visudyne is used when 
the neovascularisation is subfoveal  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How is Visudyne used? 
Visudyne should only be given by ophthalmologists (eye specialists) who have experience in the 
management of patients with AMD or pathological myopia. 
Treatment with Visudyne is a two-step process. First, the patient receives Visudyne as an infusion into 
a vein lasting 10 minutes. The dose depends on the body surface area (calculated using the patient’s 
height and weight). The second step, 15 minutes after the start of the infusion, is the activation of 
Visudyne in the eye using light generated by a laser beam. If necessary, the other eye can be treated 
with the laser immediately afterwards. Treatment can be repeated every three months if necessary. 
How does Visudyne work? 
The active substance in Visudyne, verteporfin, is a photosensitising agent (a substance that changes 
when exposed to light). It is used in ‘photodynamic therapy’, a method of treatment that uses light 
(generally from a laser) to activate a photosensitising agent. When Visudyne is injected into a patient, 
verteporfin is distributed within the body through the blood vessels, including the blood vessels at the 
back of the eye. When the laser light is shone into the eye, verteporfin is activated and generates toxic 
oxygen molecules which block blood vessels, damage and even kill cells. This helps to close up the 
abnormal blood vessels that cause AMD. 
How has Visudyne been studied? 
Visudyne has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two studies involving a total of 609 
AMD patients with classic subfoveal neovascularisation, and in one study involving 120 patients with 
neovascularisation caused by pathologic myopia. In all three studies, the main measure of 
effectiveness was the number of patients who had responded to treatment after a year, measured 
using a standard eye test chart. A patient was classified as a responder if the number of letters that 
they could see increased, stayed the same, or fell by less than 15. Some of these patients went on to 
receive Visudyne for up to five years. 
Visudyne has also been compared with placebo in ‘occult’ subfoveal choroidal neovascularisation (when 
the blood vessels affected are not well defined on the scan), in a two-year study involving 339 
patients. This was followed by a confirmatory study in a further 364 patients that was carried out at 
the request of the CHMP. 
What benefit has Visudyne shown during the studies? 
Visudyne was more effective than placebo in the studies of AMD and pathologic myopia. In the two 
studies of wet AMD, 61% of the patients receiving Visudyne had responded to treatment after a year 
(246 out of 402), compared with 46% of those receiving placebo (96 out of 207). In the study of 
pathologic myopia, 86% of the patients receiving Visudyne had responded after a year (70 out of 81), 
compared with 67% of those receiving placebo (26 out of 39). The benefit of Visudyne was maintained 
for up to five years for both diseases. 
Although the first study in occult disease showed some effectiveness, this was not confirmed in the 
second study. The benefit of Visudyne in occult subfoveal choroidal neovascularisation has not been 
established. 
Visudyne  
EMA/31239/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
What is the risk associated with Visudyne? 
The most common side effects with Visudyne (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
hypercholesteraemia (high blood cholesterol levels), hypersensitivity (allergic reactions), severely 
reduced visual acuity (very unclear vision), visual impairment (such as unclear vision, blurred fuzzy 
vision or flashes of light), defects in the visual field (such as small areas of reduced vision, grey or dark 
haloes, and black spots), dyspnoea (shortness of breath), nausea (feeling sick), photosensitivity 
reactions (sunburn-like reactions following exposure to light), reactions at the injection site (pain, 
swelling, inflammation and leakage of fluid from the veins), asthenia (weakness), infusion-related pain 
(mainly chest and back pain), syncope (fainting), headache and dizziness.  
Visudyne must not be used in patients with porphyria (an inability to break down chemicals called 
porphyrins) or in patients with severe liver disease. For the full list of restrictions and side effects 
reported with Visudyne, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Visudyne been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Visudyne’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Visudyne: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Visudyne on 27 July 2000.  
The full EPAR for Visudyne can be found can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Visudyne, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2016.  
Visudyne  
EMA/31239/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
