EMA/404996/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Vizamyl 
(flutemetamol 18F) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Vizamyl, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Vizamyl is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Vizamyl, which can be found on Vizamyl’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Vizamyl is a medicine used to help diagnose dementia. Alzheimer’s disease is the most common type 
of dementia, which is characterised by symptoms such as memory loss, mood changes, and problems 
with communication and reasoning. These symptoms worsen over time and affected individuals 
eventually require full support to complete simple daily tasks. The risk of developing Alzheimer’s 
disease and other dementias increases steadily with age, and women are at greater risk of developing 
the disease than men. In Europe it is estimated that in 2006 over 6 million people had dementia, but 
as people live longer, this number will increase.  
Summary of treatment benefits 
Vizamyl is a ‘diagnostic imaging agent’ that contains the active substance flutemetamol 18F. It works 
by attaching to deposits (plaques) of beta-amyloid if they are present in the brain and emitting low 
amounts of radiation. This allows plaques to be detected using a type of brain scan known as PET 
(positron emission tomography). These beta-amyloid plaques are typically seen in the brain of people 
with Alzheimer’s disease; absence of plaques can help doctors rule out the condition, while their 
presence may help support a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease. 
Vizamyl was investigated in one main study in 176 patients nearing the end of their lives who had 
consented to autopsies when they died, in order to prove conclusively whether or not they had 
significant amounts of β-amyloid plaques in their brain. At the end of the study the brain autopsies of 
68 patients were evaluated. When the results of the autopsies were compared with the PET scans 
interpreted by skilled readers, the scans were shown to have a sensitivity of between 81 and 93%. 
This means that the PET scans correctly identified as positive between 81 and 93% of the patients who 
had significant amounts of plaques in their brain. 
A later re-analysis looked again at data from the original 68 patients together with results from others 
who had died after the end of the original study, making a total of 106 patients. In this re-analysis 
most readers could interpret the scans with a sensitivity of around 91% (91% of patients who had 
plaques were identified) and a specificity of 90% (almost all patients without plaques were correctly 
rated as negative). 
Page 1/5 
 
 
 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
It is not known whether differences in patients’ race, age or gender would affect the interpretation of 
Vizamyl PET brain scans, but based on the studies carried out to assess Vizamyl’s effectiveness there is 
no evidence to suggest this. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Vizamyl must not be used in patients 
who are allergic to flutemetamol 18F 
or any other ingredients in Vizamyl. 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions are uncommon and may 
affect up to 1 in 100 people. Symptoms of 
allergic reactions can include swelling of 
the face or eyes; pale, itchy or tight skin; 
rash; feeling short of breath; irritation of 
the throat or feeling sick. These symptoms 
may occur even when Vizamyl is used for 
the first time. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Inaccurate 
Although the rate of inaccurate interpretation of Vizamyl PET scans in the 
interpretation of 
clinical studies was found to be low, there is a potential risk that the doctor 
Vizamyl PET scans 
could misinterpret the images. Interpretation errors may lead to subsequent 
inappropriate treatment strategies for patients. An educational training 
programme for doctors reading Vizamyl scans has been implemented to 
minimise this risk. 
Cancer or birth 
Vizamyl delivers a very low amount of radiation which poses a minimal risk of 
defects   
cancer or any hereditary abnormalities. No cases of cancer or birth defects 
(carcinogenicity or 
were observed in clinical studies. Pregnant women were excluded from the 
hereditary defects) 
clinical studies with Vizamyl. 
Lack of information 
Vizamyl is indicated for diagnostic use in adult patients with symptoms of 
on off-label use 
impaired brain function who are being investigated for Alzheimer’s disease and 
other dementias. The safety and effectiveness of Vizamyl in other populations 
(off-label) has not been studied, including in patients at increased risk of 
Alzheimer’s disease but who do not have symptoms. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Lack of information 
A significant proportion of Vizamyl is removed from the body through the liver. 
on safety in patients 
Therefore in patients with reduced liver function an increased exposure to 
with reduced liver 
radiation is possible. From the limited clinical data available, the safety profile 
function (hepatic 
of Vizamyl use in patients with reduced liver function has not been 
impairment) 
characterised. 
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
Lack of information 
Another significant proportion of Vizamyl is removed from the body through 
on safety in patients 
the kidneys. Therefore in patients with reduced kidney function an increased 
with reduced kidney 
exposure to radiation is possible. From the limited clinical data available, the 
function (renal 
safety profile of Vizamyl use in patients with reduced kidney function has not 
impairment) 
been characterised. 
Lack of information 
Vizamyl is unlikely to be given more than once or twice; if this occurs, the 
about patients 
interval between scans is likely to be months or years, far longer than the 
receiving more than 
time it takes to eliminate flutemetamol from the body; therefore, effects of 
one dose 
repeat dosing are unlikely. However, information on patients receiving more 
than one dose and how this may affect patients’ safety is limited.  
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Vizamyl can be found on Vizamyl’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Vizamyl’s EPAR 
page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement between the 
marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
Innacurate interpretation of Vizamyl PET scans 
Risk minimisation measure: Healthcare professional educational programme 
Objective and rationale: Doctors reading the scans must be specifically trained in interpreting the 
images from PET scans with Vizamyl, in order to avoid incorrect interpretation of images, which may 
lead to subsequent inappropriate treatment of patients. 
Description:  
Educational material and training to be provided to doctors who will be tested on reading Vizamyl PET 
scans. Some doctors will also be re-tested after 3 to 6 months as part of the post-authorisation PET 
image interpretation study GE067-027 (see table below). 
Page 3/5 
 
 
 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
PET image 
Primary Objective: 
Effectiveness of 
In planning 
Approx. April 2018 
interpretation 
study 
To assess the 
frequency of Vizamyl 
(GE067-027) 
image reading errors 
in routine clinical 
practice 
the Vizamyl 
reader-training 
programme in 
clinical practice by 
image readers 
(nuclear medicine 
Secondary Objectives: 
physicians or 
radiologists with 
nuclear medicine 
training). 
To assess the 
compliance of Vizamyl 
image readers with 
completion of the 
Vizamyl reader 
training programme 
To assess the 
understanding and 
compliance of doctors 
reading Vizamyl  
scans with the 
approved indication in 
the EU summary of 
product characteristics 
(SmPC) for Vizamyl  
To assess Vizamyl 
image reader 
performance on test 
images 
Post-authorisation 
Primary Objective: 
Off-label use 
In planning 
Final Report: 
utilisation study 
To determine the use of 
(GE067-028) 
Vizamyl post-
Approx. 4 years 
post-authorisation 
authorisation in the EU 
Secondary Objectives: 
To determine 
compliance with the 
Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) 
for Vizamyl  
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
To assess dosage and 
administration of 
Vizamyl 
To identify and 
characterise any use of 
Vizamyl in children 
To compare adverse 
event profiles of use of 
Vizamyl that is 
consistent with the 
SmPC and the use of 
Vizamyl that is 
inconsistent with the 
SmPC. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
None. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2014. 
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
