15 March 2012 
EMA/351597/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Vizarsin 
International non-proprietary name: sildenafil 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001076/X/06 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure ..........................
1.1. Submission of the dossier..............................................................
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product .................................
.................... 4 
...................... 4 
...................... 4 
.................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ............................................................
...................... 5 
2.1. Introduction ................................................................................
...................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects ............................................................................
...................... 8 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ......................................................................
...................... 9 
2.4. Clinical aspects ............................................................................
.................... 15 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance........................................................................
2.6. User consultation ............................................................................................. 15 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 15 
4.  Recommendations ............................................................................... 16 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 2/17
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AEs 
adverse events 
ANOVA  
analysis of variation 
ASMF 
AUC 0-t 
AUC 0-
   
BSE 
CHMP 
C max 
EC 
active substance master file 
area under the curve from time 0 to ti
me t 
area under the curve from time 0 t
o infinity 
bovine spongiform encephal
opathy 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
maximum concentration 
European Commi
ssion 
EP or Ph. Eur.   
European Pharmac
opoeia 
HPLC 
GC 
GCP 
GMP 
ICH 
IR 
high pressure liquid chromatography 
gas chromat
ography 
Good Clinical Practice 
Good Manufacturing Pr
actice 
International Conf
erence on Harmonisation 
infra-red 
LC/MS/MS 
liquid chromatography fol
lowed by two rounds of mass spectrometry 
LLOQ 
OD  
T  
lower level of q
uantification 
orodispersible table
ts 
OPA/alu/PVC/PET/alu   orientated polyamid
e/aluninum/ polyvinyl chloride/polyester/aluninum   
PE 
PK 
RH 
PSUR 
SAEs 
t½ 
tmax 
TSE 
USP 
polyethylene 
pharmacokinetics  
relative humidi
ty 
periodic safety update reports 
serious adverse events 
half life 
time to maximum (plasma) concentration 
transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
US Pharmacopeia 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 3/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on t
he procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Krka, d.d., Novo mesto submitted on 2 June 2011 an extension appli
cation for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for 
Vizarsin 25, 50 and 100 mg orodispersible 
tablets through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 19 (1) and Ann
ex I point 1 intend a, 
and point 2, intend d of the Commission Regul
ation (EC) No 1234/2008. 
Krka, d.d., Novo mesto is already the Marketing Authorisation Holder for Vizarsin
 25 mg, 50 mg and 
100 mg film coated tablets (EU/1/09/551/001-012).  
The applicant applied for the following indication: Treatment of men with erectil
e dysfunction, which is 
the inability to achieve or maintain a penile erection sufficient for satisfactory s
exual performance. 
In order for Vizarsin to be effective, sexual stimulation is required. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and at 
least a bio
equivalent study with the reference medicinal product Viagra instead of non-clinical and 
clinical unless jus
tified otherwise  
Information on Paediatric require
ments 
Not applicable 
Scient
ific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
Vizarsin  orodispersible
  tablets  were  not  licensed  in  any  country  at  the  time  of  submission  of  the 
application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the
 product 
The Ra
pporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: Pierre Demolis 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 2 June 2011. 
The procedure started on 22 June 2011.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 September 
2011. 
  During the meeting on 17 – 20 October 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 October 2011. 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 4/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The
 applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 16 December 
2011. 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 31 January 2012. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 13-16 February 2012, the CHMP agreed on a 
list of outstanding 
iss
ues to be addressed in writing and by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues 
on 22 February 
2012. 
  During the meeting on 12-15 March 2012 the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Vizarsin or
odispersible tablets on 15 March 2012.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application for an extension of marketing authorisation is to introduce orodisp
ersible tablets (ODT) 
as new pharm
aceutical form for Vizarsin, which is currently licensed as film coated tablets. 
Vizarsin is a generic medicinal product. The reference medicinal product is Viagra fil
m-coated tablets. 
Vizarsin film-coated tablets contain sildenafil as sildenafil citrate as active substance. For the 
orodispersible tables sildenafil free base is used as active substance instead of the salt sildenafil 
citrate, because it is l
ess bitter than the latter. The indication for Vizarsin is the same as the reference 
medicinal product. 
The new ODT formulation can be taken with or without liquid. It may be used as an alternative to film 
coated tablets. 
2.2. 
 Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Vizarsin  ordispersible  tabl
25 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg or
ets  contain  sildenafil  as  the  active  ingredient.  It  is  presented  in  the  form  of 
odispersible tablets.  
Other ingredients include hydroxypropylcellulose, mannitol, aspartame, neohes
peridin-dihydrochalcone, 
spearmint oil, peppermint oil, sorbitol, poly(vinyl pyrrolidone), calcium silicate, and magnesium 
stearate. 
Vizarsin ordispersible tablets are packaged in OPA/Al/PVC/Al perforated unit dose blisters. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Sildenafil occurs as white to almost white powder. Sildenafil base does not contain any chiral centre 
and therefore it does not exhibit isomerism. The active substance does not exhibit polymorphism. 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 5/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sildenafil base is not hygroscopic; however it shows pH dependent solubility. Sol
ubility decreases with 
increasing pH. Sildenafil free base is less bitter than the salt si
ldenafil citrate used in the film coated 
tablets. Ther
efore free base was used in the orodispersible tablet formulation. 
Manufacture 
The route of synthesis of Sildenafil base is similar to the route approved for 
sildenafil citrate in the 
film-coated application, except that the citrate formation step is not performed. 
Adequate In-Process Controls are applied during the manufacture of the active substance. The 
specifications
 and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents, have 
been presented and are satisfactory. 
Specification 
The specifications of sildenafil free base include appearance, solubility, identification of sildenafil (IR), 
water, s
ulphated ash, heavy metals, related substances, assay of sildenafil, and residual solvent. 
Batch analysis data of the active substance are provided. The results are within th
e specifications and 
consistent from batch to batch.  
Stability 
Three production scale batches of the active substance packed in the package intended for marketing 
were put on long-term (25°C/60%RH
) for up 12 months, and accelerated (40°C/75%RH) for up 6 
months stability testing ICH conditions. Photostability test following ICH guidelines Q1B was performed 
on one batch. The following par
ameters were tested: appearance, water, related substances, and 
sildenafil content. The stability results justify the proposed retest period. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The primary goal of the development was to formulate an essentially similar pr
oduct to the reference 
medicinal product Viagra tablets. 
Sildenafil citrate has extensive bitter taste, the first trials thus aimed at succes
sfully mask the taste. 
Despite different approaches implemented, bitter taste of sildenafil citrate could not be mas
ked to a 
desired level. Since sildenafil free base is less bitter than sildenafil citrate, the development was 
continued with sildenafil base. Dissolution studies showed that similar in-vivo performance 
can be 
expected with a formulation containing sildenafil free base compared to a formulation with sildenafil 
citrate. In addition stress stability studies were performed showing that stability of tablets prepared 
with sildenafil base was adequate and comparable to stability of the reference medicinal product. 
The selection of excipients was the most critical step to achieve suitable characteristics of the finished 
product in the form of orodispersible tablets, especially fast and spontaneous disintegration in the 
mouth, pleasant taste and mouth feel. The chosen excipients are well known for the manufacture of 
solid dosage forms. 
The excipients used in the formulation are hydroxypropylcellulose (binder), mannitol (diluent), 
aspartame (sweetening agent), neohesperidin-dihydrochalcone (sweetening agent), spearmint oil 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 6/17
 
 
 
 
 
(flavouring agent), peppermint oil (flavouring agent), 
sorbitol, poly(vinyl pyrrolidone) (disintegrant), 
calcium silicate (disintegrant), and magnesium stearate (lubricant). 
Compatibility of active substance and excipients was confirmed with stability studies. No 
incompatibilities were observed during development work. 
All excipients used are in compliance with the Ph Eur. with the exception of the fla
vouring agents which 
both meet in-house requirements.  
In vitro drug release studies were conducted with Sildenafil 25 mg, 50 mg and 100
 mg orodispersible 
tablets as well as with reference product Viagra. Comparative dissolution profile
s were performed in 
four different dissolution med
ia. The selected dissolution method was proved to be selective and able 
to identify differences in dissolution properties of different products in regard to d
ifferent composition 
of tablets. There was no effect of active ingredient’s particle size on the dissolution
 rate of finished 
product within the evaluating range. 
Different manufacturing processes for preparation of granulate were considered b
ased on the dosage 
form sele
ction and final dosage form properties. High shear granulation was selected for the granulate 
preparation as no sti
cking of the compression mixture was observed. Standard rotary tablet press was 
used to compress the orodi
spersible tablets. 
OPA/Alu/PVC/Alu was selected as primary packaging. Stability results showed that packi
ng material 
was suitable. 
Adventitious agents 
No materials of animal origin are used in the production of Sildenafil orodispersi
ble tablets. 
Manufacture of t
he product 
The manufacturing process is standard wet granulation process. All strengths are
 proportional by 
weight in composition. Both the manufacturing process and the in process controls
 have been 
adequately described. The process validation has been perform
ed at seven batches at pilot scale 
covering all strengths and supports the proposed batch sizes. 
Product specificat
ion 
The release and shelf-life specifications for the sildenafil 25/50/100 mg orodi
spersible tablet include 
tests and limits for: appearance (visually), average mass of tablets (gravimetry), 
identification (HPLC, 
UV), related substances (HPLC), Dissolution (Ph.Eur.), assay (HP
LC), uniformity of dosage units – 
content uniformity (Ph.Eur.) and microbiological purity (Ph.Eur.-not routinely). 
Batch analysis results for three batches per strength comply with the proposed sp
ecifications. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been performed on three batches per strength packaged in the proposed 
packaging material under normal (25°C/60%RH), intermediate (30°C/65%RH) and accelerated 
conditions (40°C/75%RH). Results have been reported for up to 12 months in normal and for six 
months accelerated conditions and remained within the proposed specifications. 
In addition stability results on one batch of bulk 25 mg tablets packed in PE bag / alutriplex bag stored 
at temperature 20-25°C and relative humidity 25-65%RH for six months were presented. The lowest 
tablet strength was chosen for this study because it was considered as the most critical since the 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 7/17
 
 
 
 
surface area of the tablets 
per mass is the highest. After six months storage, the results remained 
within the proposed specification.  
Based on the above the proposed shelf-life and storage recommendations for the bulk tablets as well 
as the finished product are acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of Vizarsin active s
ubstance and orodispersible 
tablets  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate 
consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in
 the clinic. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when u
sed in accordance with the conditions 
defi
ned  in  the  SmPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performanc
e of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has 
been provided, 
which is based on up
-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxico
logy data.  
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference prod
uct. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology, Pharmacokinetics and Toxicology 
The active ingredient in Virzasin ODT is sildenafil base whereas the reference medicinal product Viagra 
contains sildenafil citrate.  
On  the  basis  of  the  EMA  Procedural  advice  for  users  of  the  centralised  procedure  for  generic/hybrid 
application  (EMEA/CHMP/225411/2006),  when  different  salts  of  the  active  substance  of  the  reference 
medicinal  product  are  used,  additional  information  providing  proof  that  their  safety  and/or  efficacy 
profile is not different from the one of the reference medicinal product should be submitted. 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 8/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To  be  absorbed  after  oral  administration  the  drug  substance  first  has  to  dissolve.
  Only  the  dissolved 
portion can be transported through enterocites into the blood and distri
buted. When drugs with similar 
solubility and dissolution rates are compared, the same safety profiles may be expec
ted. 
The test and the referrence formulation dissolve in the acidic environment of the g
astrointestinal tract 
to  the  same  component,  sidenafil  base.  Comparison  of  the  results  of  preclinical  s
tudies  cited  in  the 
dossier performed with sildenafil base and sildenafil citrate did not reveal
 any significant differences in 
findings.  Furthermore,  neither  the  impurity  profiles  nor  t
he  available  clinical  data  comparing 
formulations using the two different forms (base and ci
trate) did raise any concerns. 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.3.  Ecotoxicity/environmental
 risk assessment 
No  ERA  was  submitted.  The  CHMP  agrees  with  the  applicant  that  introduction  of  Vizarsin  ODT  is 
unlikely to result in a
ny significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all sildenafil containing 
products. Thus, no modification of the ERA is necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for an orodispersible tablet containing sildenafil. To s
upport the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted one single-dose, two-way cro
ssover bioequivalence 
study in fasting state comparing 
the test product sildenafil 100 mg ODT and the reference product 
Via
gra 100 mg film-coated tablets. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
For the other two strengths, a biowaiver to conduct a bioequivalence 
study was requested. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the
 clinical 
assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/
1401/98) in its 
current vers
ion is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by t
he applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  clinical  trial 
conducted  outside  the 
community was carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/
20/ECETHICS  
Exe
mption  
According to the Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 
Rev.1, it may be sufficient to establish bioequivalence at only one or two strengths depending on 
product characteristics as well as the pharmacokinetics of the active substance (linearity). 
The applicant applied for a biowaiver for the 25 mg and the 50 mg ODT formulations. A single 
bioequivalence study was done with sildenafil 100 mg orodispersible tablets. The use of the highest 
strength is generally recommended in case of linear kinetics also considering analytical and 
safety/tolerability aspects. For sildenafil the drug input is deemed to be linear over the therapeutic 
range. 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 9/17
 
 
 
 
 
For the 50 mg and 25 mg strengths it was demonstrated that:
 
 
 
 
the pharmaceutical products are manufactured 
by the same process; 
the quantitative composition in the table core is prop
ortional; 
the qualitative compositions of the different strengths is the same; 
the dissolution profiles were found to be very similar in various media tested.The compari
son 
of dissolution profiles was performed in three dissolution media 0.1M HCl, pH 4.5 acetate 
buffer and pH 6.8 phosphate buffer. Additionally, the comparison was performed i
n quality 
control dissolution medium 0.01M HCl.  
Therefore the CHMP consi
dered a biowaiver for the formulations of lower strengths (50 and 25 mg) to 
be acceptable. 
Cl
inical studi s 
e
To support the application, the applica
nt ha
s submitted o
ne bio
equivalence study.  
Study 
Id
enti
fier 
Typ
e 
of 
Stud
y 
BE 
11-312 
Locati
on 
of 
Study 
Re
port 
Section
5.3.
1.2. 
Objectiv  
e
of the 
Stud
y 
Study 
Design;
Type of 
Contro
l 
Test Pro
Do
sage R
duct(s); 
egimen; 
Rout of Administration 
No
. of 
Su
bjec
ts 
Duratio
n 
of 
Study 
Status; 
Type of 
Treatme
report 
nt 
ealthy 
t
H
Subjec
s/ 
Diagnos
is 
Of 
Patients 
41 
Healthy 
Single 
subjects 
Dose 
Complet
e; 
Full 
Test 
Sildenafil 100 mg 
orodispersible tablets 
(B.No.: 1243 07 P019 
1010) 
Reference 
Viagra  100 mg film 
coated 
tablets: 
(B.No.: 7050504D) 
nt  C
ross
ov
sting 
er; 
Fa
state 
with a 
1-week 
washout 
period 
e 
Assessme
of 
single-dos
relative 
bioavailabil
ity of 
two oral 
formulation
s 
after 
administrati
on 
under 
fasting 
conditions 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Study 11-312: Single Centre, Randomized, Single-Dose, Laboratory-blinded, Two-way Crossover 
Comparative Bioavailability Study of Sildenafil 100 mg Orodispersible Tablets and Viagra 100 mg Film-
Coated Tablets in Healthy Male Volunteers under Fasting State 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a single-dose, randomized, open-label, two-way crossover, comparative bioavailability study 
comparing sildenafil 100 mg orodispersible tablets (test product) and Viagra 100 mg film-coated 
tablets (reference product) in normal, healthy male subjects under fasting conditions. The washout 
period was 7 days between each dosing. 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 10/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both, clinical part as well as analiytical part of the study were conducted  outside th
e Community.The 
protocol
 and the informed consent forms were approved by an institutional review board Drug intake 
procedure: 
The order of investigational product administration was sequentially assigned from
 a computer-
generated randomization scheme.  
The orodispersible tablet (test product) was administered without water. Prior to admi
nistration of test 
product, subjects were asked to rinse their mouth with approximately 20 mL of
 water and then swallow 
the water. No water was provided with the administration of th
e drug until about 2 hours post-dose. 
The reference product was adm
inistered with about 180 mL of water at ambient temperature. The 
tablet was
 to be swallowed whole and was not to be chewed or broken. 
Test and reference products  
Test Product:  
Sildenafil 100 mg orodispersible tablets, manufactured by Krka, d.d., Novo mesto, SloveniaBatch size: 
100,000 tablets.  
Reference Product:  
Viagra 100 mg film-coated tablets, manufactured by Pfizer (marketed in France). Da
te of authorisation 
in EU 14.09.1998.  
Population studied   
A total 48 male subjects were planned for inclusion, 43 subjects (subjects #001-042 and 044) were 
included and received at least one of the investigational under study. They were 2 drop-outs. Forty-two 
(42) were analyzed, 41 were considered in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis and 43 in the 
safety analysis. 
The basic demographic data such as gender, age, weight, height, race and body mass index of all 
subjects enrolled into the study are presented in below table. 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 11/17
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Deviations 
There were no serious deviations in the development of the experimental phase. Ce
rtain delays 
occurred during the p
rocess of collecting subject’s blood samples. Protocol deviations were 
documented. None of these are assumed to have introduced any bias i
n the results. 
Analytical methods   
Sample pre-treatment involv
ed the solid-phase extraction of Sildenafil and N-Desmethyl Sildenafil from 
human plasma. The compounds were identified and quantified using a reverse-pha
HPLC with MS/MS detection 
se chromatography 
Data on stability, in-study validation, as well as sample analysis details were provided. 
Overall the bioanalytical method was considered adequately validated. 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
The main standard pharmacokinetic variables (AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, Cmax) were determined through non-
compartmental analysis by the linear log trapezoidal rule. As a second pharmacokinetic variable, tmax, 
Kel, t1/2 and % extrapolated area were assessed.  
Statistical methods   
The pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis was performed usingKinetic, version 9.01, and SAS 
version 9.1 (GLM procedure). Descriptive statistics were performed for all parameters, tabulating 
descriptive arithmetic means for direct data and for logarithmic data, as well as the corresponding 
standard deviations. 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 12/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The comparative study of the bioequivalence parameters Ln (AUC0-t), Ln (AUC0
-∞) and Ln Cmax was 
performed by means of ANOVA, controlling for the sequence, subjects nested in the sequen
ce, the 
period and the formulation; in order to obtain an estimation of the residual variance and determine the 
role of these factors. 
Bioequi
valence was concluded if the 90% confidence interval of the relative mean AUC0-t and Cmax 
are included wi
thin 80.00-125.00% limits. Tmax was analysed with the non-parametric method. 
Results 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetic parameters of sildenafil for both formulations
Table 2. Statistical analysis for sildenafil (ln-transformed values) 
All pre-dose samples were found to be below the LLOQ. There was no subject with extrapolated area > 
20%. 
Safety data 
In this study a total 34 adverse events were reported by 21 subjects out of 43. No serious adverse 
events or deaths were reported during this study. (not related) In both groups the most common 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 13/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse events related to treatment w
ere headache and somnolence, wich are expected adverse event 
from the kno
wn safety profile of the sildenafil.  
Conclusions 
Based on the data of the bioequivalence study, the test product Vizarsin 100 mg
 orodispersible tablet 
is considered bioequivalent with the reference product Viagra 100 mg film-coated
 tablet.  
The results of the study with the 100 mg formulation can be extrapolated to other strengths 50 mg 
and 25 mg in accordance wi
th the conditions in the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1, section 4.1.6. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marke
ted in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The pivotal basis for the clinical assessment is study, a single-dose, randomized
, open-label, two-way 
crossover, comparative bioavailability study comparing sildenafil 100 mg orodispe
rsible tablets (test 
product) and Viagra 100 mg film-coated tablets (reference product) in 
normal, healthy male subjects 
under fasting conditions. The design of this study is overall acceptable for the CHM
P. 
The CHMP noted that sildenafil could be taken independently of food intak
e, therefore a 2x2 cross-over 
single dose study in fasting state i
s considered the most adequate study design to investigate the 
pharmacokinetic bioequivalence of Sildenafil. The CHMP considered the wash-out 
period of 7 days 
adequate since the drug has a terminal half-li
fe of 3-5 hours and pre-dose levels were not detected. 
Moreover, 5% levels of the lowest Cmax for sildenafil  could be detected with this
 LLOQ. 
The CHMP notes that sildenafil exhibits linear and dose proportional pharma
cokinetics over the dose 
range of 25 to 100 mg. The choice of the 100 mg strength and dose for the conduc
t of the 
bioequivalence study is appropriate.  
Analyte for the phrmacokinetic evaluation is the parent compound sildena
fil, which is in line with the 
applicable Guideline on Investigation of Bioequivalence. 
According to the CHMP the pre-study validation of the analytical method 
as satisfactory. No (outlier) 
value was excluded from calculations. The LLOQ is lower than 5% of the minimum 
Cmax. Therefore, in 
case of a carry-over effect was present it would have been detected. Furthermore, the CHMP 
considered that the in-study validation shows acceptable calibration standards (zero) and QC values. It 
was noted that incurred sample analysis demonstrated that the analysis was robust. 
The pharmacokinetic analyses based on the linear trapezoidal rule are appropriate. The statistical 
analysis performed is parametric, except for Tmax, in accordance with the Guideline on the 
investigation on bioequivalence. The employed software was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
The CHMP considered that based on the statistical analysis, test and reference product are 
bioequivalent. The 90% confidence intervals calculated for AUC0-t and Cmax of sildenafil were inside 
the acceptance range of 80.00 – 125.00.  
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 14/17
 
 
 
 
 
With regard to the lower strengths of the ODT formulation (25 mg and 50 mg), t
he CHMP 
acknowledged that the different tablet strengths are manufactured with the same process, 
have the 
same qualitative composition and a proportional quantitat
ive composition in the table core. In vitro 
dissolution profiles are similar between the different strengths investigated. Therefore, the 
bioequivalence conclusion can be extrapo
lated to these lower strengths. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The application contains an adequate review of published
 literature concerning aspects of 
pharmacology, pharmacodynamic, efficacy and safety of sildenafil. The justi
fication that the different 
salt of the active substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards t
o safety and efficacy 
of the reference prod
uct was provided and was accepted by the CHMP. 
The bioequivalence of the 100 mg orodispersible tablet to the reference produ
ct is considered 
demonstrated. This conclusion can be extrapolated to the lower strengths 50
 and 25 mg as all criteria 
for a biowaiver are fulfilled. 
T e
h  CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisat
ion activities are 
required beyond th
ose included in the product information.  
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the ap
plicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
R s
i k Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan becau
se of the well 
established safety profile of the reference product and the proven bioequivalence
 between Vizarsin 
orodispersible tablets and the reference product. 
2.6.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making 
reference to: a) Vizarsin 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets, a 
medicinal product with the same active substance of the same therapeutic group and same route of 
administration with same key safety messages but different formulation to the o
rodispersible tablets 
and b) to Rivastigmine Krka orodispersible tablets 1,5 mg, 3 mg, 4,5 mg, 6 mg, a product wi
th the 
same formulation, same route of administration and identical pictograms. The bridging report 
submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This application concerns a line extension application for Vizarsin 25, 50 and 100 mg orodispersible 
tablets. The therapeutic indication remain unchanged to the one licensed for the reference product, i.e. 
treatment of erectile dysfunction in men. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient.  
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 15/17
 
 
 
 
 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on efficacy 
and safety of the 
active substance; the applicant’s clin
ical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from 
published literature was considered sufficient. 
The orodispersible tablet contains the sildenafil base rather than sildenafil citrate like the reference 
product. Based on the available nonclinical and clinical data it is concluded tha
t the different salt of the 
active substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety an
d efficacy. This is in 
accordance with the relevant guideline and additional clinical studies were considere
d necessary. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a single-dose, randomized,
 open-label, two-way 
crossover, comparative design in healthy male subjects under fasting conditions. T
he study design was 
considered adequate to e
valuate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the 
respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sam
pling time as well as 
wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmac
okinetic and statistical 
methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of sildenafil 100 mg orodispersible tablets met the protocol-de
fined criteria for 
bioequivalence when compared wi
th the reference product Viagra 100 mg film-coated tablets. The 
90% confidence intervals calculated for AUC0-t and Cmax of sildenafil w
ere inside the acceptance 
range of acceptability (80.00 – 125.00) hence bioequivalence of the two form
ulations was 
demonstrated. This conclusion can be extrapolated to the lower strengths 50
 and 25 mg as all criteria 
for biowaiver are fulfilled. 
The benefit/risk ratio of the orodispersible tablet formulation can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the d
ata submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference
 medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CH
MP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Vizarsin 25mg, 50 mg an
d 100 mg orodispersible tablets in the 
indication: 
“Treatment of men with erectile dysfunction, which is the inability to achieve or maintain a penile 
erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance. In order for Vizarsin to be effective, sexual 
stimulation is required.” 
is favourable and therefore recommends  the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.  
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 16/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisatio
n, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Vizarsin 
Assessment report  
Page 17/17
 
 
 
 
