EMA/89209/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004779 
Vizimpro (dacomitinib) 
An overview of Vizimpro and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vizimpro and what is it used for? 
Vizimpro is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) when the 
disease is advanced or has spread. 
Vizimpro is used on its own and only in patients with certain mutations (changes) in the gene for a 
protein called epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).  
Vizimpro contains the active substance dacomitinib. 
How is Vizimpro used? 
Vizimpro is available as tablets (15, 30 and 45 mg). The patient should normally take a 45-mg tablet 
once a day, at around the same time every day, for as long as they benefit from it and the side effects 
are tolerable. If certain side effects develop the doctor may decide to reduce the dose or stop 
treatment. 
Vizimpro can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and supervised by a 
doctor with experience in using cancer medicines. Before starting treatment, the presence of mutations 
in the EGFR gene should be confirmed by appropriate tests. 
For more information about using Vizimpro, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Vizimpro work? 
The active substance in Vizimpro, dacomitinib, belongs to a group of cancer medicine called tyrosine 
kinase inhibitor. It blocks the activity of EGFR, which normally controls growth and division of cells. In 
lung cancer cells, EGFR is often overactive, causing uncontrolled growth of cancer cells. By blocking 
EGFR, dacomitinib helps to reduce the growth and spread of the cancer. 
What benefits of Vizimpro have been shown in studies? 
Vizimpro has been shown to be more effective than gefitinib (another medicine for non-small cell lung 
cancer) at prolonging the time patients lived without their disease getting worse. In one main study 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
involving 452 patients with EGFR mutations, patients given Vizimpro lived on average for around 15 
months without their disease getting worse, compared with 9 months for those given gefitinib. 
What are the risks associated with Vizimpro? 
The most common side effects with Vizimpro (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are 
diarrhoea, rash, stomatitis (inflammation of the lining of the mouth), nail disorder, dry skin, loss of 
appetite, conjunctivitis (redness and discomfort in the eye), weight and hair loss, itching, elevated 
levels of transaminases (a sign of liver problems) and nausea (feeling sick). The most frequent serious 
side effects are diarrhoea, interstitial lung disease (disorders causing scarring in the lungs), rash and 
loss of appetite. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Vizimpro, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vizimpro authorised in the EU? 
Vizimpro was shown to significantly improve the length of time patients lived without their disease 
getting worse. Patients taking Vizimpro lived for an extra 6 months without their disease getting worse 
compared with those taking gefitinib. Although Vizimpro caused more side effects than gefitinib, these 
were considered manageable. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Vizimpro’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vizimpro? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vizimpro have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vizimpro are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Vizimpro are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vizimpro 
Vizimpro received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 2 April 2019. 
Further information on Vizimpro can be found on the Agency’s website: 
www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vizimpro. 
This overview was last updated in 05-2019.  
Vizimpro (dacomitinib)  
EMA/89209/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
