9 February 2017 
EMA/PRAC/637349/2016 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
PRAC assessment report  
Procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
SGLT2 inhibitors and lower limb amputation (canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, 
empagliflozin-containing medicines)  
Procedure number(s):  
INVOKANA (canagliflozin) EMEA/H/A-20/1442/C/2649/0018 
VOKANAMET (canagliflozin / metformin) EMEA/H/A-20/1442/C/2656-0014 
FORXIGA (dapagliflozin) EMEA/H/A-20/1442/C/2322/0029 
EDISTRIDE (dapagliflozin) EMEA/H/A-20/1442/C/4161/0010 
XIGDUO (dapagliflozin/metformin) EMEA/H/A-20/1442/C/2672/0024 
EBYMECT (dapagliflozin/metformin) EMEA/H/A-20/1442/C/4162/0013 
JARDIANCE (empagliflozin) EMEA/H/A-20/1442/C/2677/0023 
SYNJARDY (empagliflozin/metformin) EMEA/H/A-20/1442/C/3770/0022 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
Table of contents ......................................................................................... 2 
1. Information on the procedure ................................................................. 3 
1.1. Referral of the matter to the PRAC ......................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken during the referral procedure ................... Error! Bookmark not defined. 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. Data on efficacy ................................................................................................... 5 
2.3. Data on safety ..................................................................................................... 5 
Amputation imbalances ............................................................................................... 6 
Treatment emergent adverse events and baseline conditions ........................................... 6 
Risk factors ................................................................................................................ 8 
Possible Mechanism of action - Volume depletion .......................................................... 11 
SGLT2/SGLT1 affinity - off-target activity .................................................................... 12 
Class effect .............................................................................................................. 13 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 14 
Benefits ................................................................................................................... 14 
Uncertainty about benefits ......................................................................................... 14 
Risks ....................................................................................................................... 14 
4. Risk management .................................................................................. 16 
4.1. Safety specification ............................................................................................. 16 
4.2. Pharmacovigilance plan ....................................................................................... 16 
4.2.1. Routine pharmacovigilance: Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires ....... 16 
4.2.2. Additional pharmacovigilance activities: Meta-analyses ........................................ 17 
4.2.3. Amendments to the product information ............................................................. 18 
5. Grounds for Recommendation ............................................................... 18 
6. EPAR changes ................................................... Error! Bookmark not defined. 
6.1. Scope ..................................................................... Error! Bookmark not defined. 
6.2. Summary ................................................................ Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Attachment 1 - Amendments to the product information as recommended 
by the PRAC ............................................................................................... 20 
Attachment 2 - List of PTs for preceding events ........................................ 22 
Enclosures ............................................................ Error! Bookmark not defined. 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 2/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Information on the procedure 
1.1.  Referral of the matter to the PRAC 
Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors are used together with diet and exercise in 
patients with type 2 diabetes, either alone or in combination with other diabetes medicines.  
In March 2016 the EMA was informed by the marketing authorization holder (MAH) of canagliflozin 
about an approximately 2-fold increase of lower limb amputations in canagliflozin-treated subjects 
compared to placebo in the MAH sponsored ongoing cardiovascular (CV) event study CANVAS. In 
addition, an analysis of the ongoing renal study CANVAS-R with a similar population as CANVAS 
showed a numerical imbalance with regards to amputation events. 
Further to the information received by the EMA, the Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) 
for the CANVAS and CANVAS-R studies, which has access to all un-blinded CV outcome and safety 
data, recommended that the study should continue, that action to minimize this potential risk should 
be taken and that participants should be informed adequately about this risk. 
The European Commission (EC) triggered a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
on 15 April 2016; the PRAC was requested to assess the impact on the benefit-risk balance of 
canagliflozin containing medicinal products, to assess whether this is a class issue and to issue a 
recommendation by 31 March 2017 on whether the relevant marketing authorisations should be 
maintained, varied, suspended or revoked and whether provisional measures are necessary to ensure 
the safe and effective use of these medicinal products. 
A Direct Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC) was circulated on 2 May 2016 to inform 
healthcare professionals that a two-fold higher incidence of lower limb amputation (primarily of the 
toe) had been seen in a clinical trial with canagliflozin; in addition, the need to counsel patients about 
the importance of routine preventative foot care was highlighted. The communication also asked 
healthcare professionals to consider treatment discontinuation in patients who develop amputation 
preceding events. 
Furthermore, the PRAC considered that a class effect could not be excluded, as all SGLT2 inhibitors 
share the same mechanism of action, as the potential mechanism leading to an increased amputation 
risk was not known, and as an underlying cause specific to canagliflozin containing medicines only 
could not be identified. Consequently, the EC requested on 6 July 2016 to extend the current 
procedure to include all of the authorised products of the class of SGLT2 inhibitors.  
2.  Scientific discussion  
2.1.  Introduction 
Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors inhibit the SGLT2 transporter responsible for the 
majority of the reabsorption of filtered glucose from the tubular lumen. Inhibiting SGLT2 reduces 
reabsorption of filtered glucose, lowers the renal threshold for glucose (RTG) and increases urinary 
glucose elimination, thereby lowering elevated plasma glucose concentrations by an insulin-
independent mechanism in patients with type 2 diabetes. 
Canagliflozin and dapagliflozin are indicated together with diet and exercise in the treatment of type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM) to improve glycaemic control in adults, either alone or in combination with 
other diabetes medicines as follows:  
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 3/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Monotherapy, when diet and exercise alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control in patients 
for whom use of metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance. 
•  Add-on combination therapy, in combination with other glucose–lowering medicinal products 
including insulin, when these, together with diet and exercise, do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control. 
Empagliflozin is indicated for the treatment of adults with insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes 
mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise 
• 
• 
as monotherapy when metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance 
in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes 
CANVAS is an ongoing Phase 3, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 3-arm, parallel-group, 
multicentre study to evaluate the effects of canagliflozin on CV outcomes in adult subjects with T2DM 
receiving standard of care but with an inadequate glycaemic control and at an elevated risk of CV 
events. Interim analysis of the CANVAS study (cut-off October 2015) showed a potential risk of lower 
limb amputations by approximately 2-fold increase in canagliflozin-treated subjects compared to 
placebo. The majority were amputations of the toe. At this time, the incidence of lower limb 
amputation (mostly affecting the toes) in the CANVAS study was 7.3 in 1,000 patient-years with 
canagliflozin 100 mg daily and 5.4 in 1,000 patient-years with canagliflozin 300 mg daily, compared 
with 3 in 1,000 patient-years with placebo.  Although no dose-response relationship was seen, the 
difference between arms was seen early in the study. This increase was observed independent of 
predisposing risk factors, although the absolute risk was higher in patients with previous amputations, 
existing peripheral disease or neuropathy. 
In addition, CANVAS-R, an on-going renal assessment study with a similar population as CANVAS, 
showed a numerical imbalance with regards to amputation events (16 events in the canagliflozin group 
and 12 events in the placebo group). The estimated annualised incidence rate of amputations was 7 
and 5 events per 1000 patient-years exposure in the canagliflozin and placebo group, respectively, 
with no statistically significant difference.  
In order to evaluate whether these events were related to canagliflozin specifically or whether they 
might be a class effect, the PRAC requested the MAHs of all authorised SGLT2 containing medicinal 
products (as mono-component or combination products), to provide all related available data from 
finalised and ongoing clinical trials and reports from post-marketing studies.  
The PRAC reviewed all available data from clinical studies, published literature and post-marketing 
experience, including responses submitted by the marketing authorisation holders, as appropriate, on 
the efficacy and safety of SGLT2 inhibitors in their approved indication. It should be noted that this 
report summarises only the most relevant data.  
Table 1.  Overview of key safety data submitted with regard to amputation risk 
CANVAS 
CV outcomes 
In patients with 
Phase 3, double-blind, 
Canagliflozin, 
Ongoing 
type 2 diabetes 
randomized, placebo-controlled, 
placebo 
mellitus 
3-arm, parallel-group, 
multicenter study 
CANVAS-R  Renal 
In patients with 
Phase 3, double-blind, 
Canagliflozin, 
Ongoing 
outcomes 
type 2 diabetes 
randomized, placebo-controlled, 
placebo 
mellitus 
2-arm, parallel-group, 
multicenter study 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 4/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CREDENCE  Renal and 
In patients with 
Phase 3, double-blind, 
Canagliflozin, 
Ongoing 
CV outcomes 
type 2 diabetes 
randomized, parallel-group, 
placebo 
and diabetic 
placebo-controlled, multicentre 
nephropathy 
study 
DECLARE 
CV outcomes 
In patients with 
Phase 3, multicenter, 
Dapagliflozin, 
Ongoing 
2 diabetes 
randomized, double-blind, 
placebo 
mellitus 
placebo-controlled study 
EMPA-REG  CV outcomes 
In patients with 
Phase 3, multicenter, 
Empagliflozin, 
Completed, 
2 diabetes 
randomized, double-blind, 
placebo 
benefit on 
mellitus 
placebo-controlled study 
MACE* 
*major adverse cardiovascular events 
2.2.  Data on efficacy 
No new efficacy data have been provided for this referral procedure. However, data from the clinical 
development programme were used for evaluation of circumstances of amputation events.  
All substances have demonstrated in adequately conducted pivotal clinical trials that they have shown 
efficacy over placebo at reducing haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) levels when used alone and in combination 
with other antidiabetic medicines, as assessed during their approval procedures.  
As a required pharmacovigilance activity at the time of the initial marketing authorisation, all 3 MAHs 
have conducted additionally long-term cardiovascular outcome studies. The studies conducted with 
canagliflozin (CANVAS) and dapagliflozin (DECLARE) are ongoing and final major adverse 
cardiovascular events (MACE) MACE results are not yet available.  
For empagliflozin, the EMPA-REG trial (study 1245.25) showed a positive effect of empagliflozin 
treatment on death from cardiovascular causes (3.7%, vs. 5.9% in the placebo group; 38% relative 
risk reduction), hospitalization for heart failure (2.7% and 4.1%, respectively; 35% relative risk 
reduction), and death from any cause (5.7% and 8.3%, respectively; 32% relative risk reduction). The 
results of the EMPA-REG study are further analysed and discussed in the completed procedure 
EMEA/H/C/002677/II/0014.  
2.3.  Data on safety 
The MAH for canagliflozin provided mainly data from the ongoing CANVAS trial. Additionally, the clinical 
trial programme including 12 phase 3 and 4 studies of the global marketing dossier and studies 
conducted by the MAH since the marketing authorisation application was evaluated. 
CANVAS is an ongoing Phase 3, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 3-arm, parallel-group, 
multicenter study to evaluate the effects of canagliflozin on cardiovascular (CV) outcomes in adult 
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The study is fully enrolled with 4,330 randomized 
subjects and is scheduled to complete in the first quarter of 2017 (last patient visit). Final results for 
CANVAS are expected to be available second quarter of 2018.  CANVAS-R (DIA4003) is an ongoing 
Phase 3, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 2-arm, parallel-group, multicenter study to 
evaluate the effects of canagliflozin on renal outcomes in adult subjects with T2DM receiving standard 
of care but with an inadequate glycemic control and at an elevated risk of CV events. Final results for 
CANVAS-R are expected to be available second quarter of 2018. CREDENCE (DNE3001), a randomized, 
double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, multicentre study designed to evaluate the effects of 
canagliflozin compared with placebo on renal and CV outcomes in subjects with T2DM and diabetic 
nephropathy is ongoing. Final results for CREDENCE are expected to be available in 2020.  
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 5/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH for dapagliflozin analysed the pooled data of the development programme including 9 
placebo-controlled clinical studies that included 2026 subjects receiving dapagliflozin 10 mg and 1956 
subjects receiving placebo.  
DECLARE, a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the effect of 
dapagliflozin 10 mg once daily on the incidence of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction or 
ischemic stroke in patients with type 2 diabetes, is ongoing. Final results are expected to be available 
in 2020. 
The MAH for empagliflozin analysed the pooled data of the development programme as well as the 
recently completed CV outcome trial EMPA-REG (study 1245.25).  
Amputation imbalances 
Interim analysis of the CANVAS study (cut-off October 2015) showed an increase in the incidence of 
non-traumatic, lower-extremity amputations –primarily of the toe- in the canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 
mg treated patients group (3.3% and 2.4%, respectively) compared to placebo (1.3%). With a mean 
duration of follow-up in CANVAS of approximately 4.5 years, the annualized incidence of lower-
extremity amputation was 0.73, 0.54, and 0.30 events per 100 patient-year exposure in the 
canagliflozin 100 mg, canagliflozin 300 mg, and placebo groups, respectively. Additionally, the 
CANVAS-R study, which has a similar patient population (i.e., with CV history or high CV risk) to the 
CANVAS study but with an overall shorter exposure (0.75 years), showed an annualized incidence rate 
of amputation of 0.70 and 0.53 events per 100 patient-year exposure to the canagliflozin group or 
placebo. 
Subsequent  interim  analysis  of  the  CANVAS  trial  (cut-off  September  2016)  showed  an  incidence  of 
non-traumatic, lower-extremity amputations in the canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg group (3.3% and 
2.6%,  respectively)  compared  to  placebo  (1.3%)  and  incidence  rates  of  lower-extremity  amputation 
was  0.66,  0.52,  and  0.27  events  per  100  patient-year  exposure  in  the  canagliflozin  100  mg, 
canagliflozin  300  mg,  and  placebo  groups,  respectively.  For  the  ongoing  CANVAS-R  there  was  an 
incidence  rate  of  0.77  and  0.39  events  per  100  patient-year  exposure  to  the  canagliflozin  group  or 
placebo. 
No imbalances were seen in the pooled analysis of the completed phase 3 and 4 studies of 
canagliflozin, dapagliflozin or empagliflozin.  
No imbalances in amputation events were observed within the large CV outcome trial EMPA-REG 
between the empagliflozin arm and the placebo arm. However, it should be noted amputations were 
not recorded in a structured manner.  
For dapagliflozin, the DECLARE study, is on-going and so far no data on imbalances within this study 
have been provided. Final results are expected to be available in 2020. According to the study 
protocol, amputation events have so far not been captured systematically in this trial. 
Treatment emergent adverse events and baseline conditions 
Canagliflozin 
For a comparison of the incidence, severity and development of signs and symptoms of conditions 
preceding surgical amputations, the MAH searched for imbalances in reporting adverse events (AEs) 
using selected preferred terms (PTs) from four System Organ Classes (SOCs) (Vascular disorders, 
Infections and infestations, Nervous system disorders, and Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders). 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 6/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This search revealed in the CANVAS overall population a higher number of events in the canagliflozin 
groups for skin ulcer, gangrene, wound, peripheral arterial occlusive disease, peripheral vascular 
disorder and intermittent claudication. However, in subjects with post-baseline amputation a higher 
number of reports in the canagliflozin groups compared to placebo were found with skin ulcer, 
gangrene, cellulitis, peripheral arterial occlusive disease and peripheral vascular disorder. It might be 
concluded that canagliflozin treatment elicit imbalances with regards to skin ulcer, gangrene, 
peripheral arterial occlusive disease, peripheral vascular disorder and intermittent claudication but 
events relevant for later amputation are skin ulcer, gangrene, peripheral arterial occlusive disease and 
peripheral vascular disorder with the most pronounced imbalance seen in skin ulcer. Neuropathic 
events were overall rarely reported in the subjects with amputation and seem to play either no role or 
a secondary role. 
Overall higher incidences of adverse events in the Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders, Vascular 
disorders, and Infections and infestations SOC groupings in all treatment groups were seen in the 
CANVAS trial compared to the analysis of pooled data of all placebo controlled non-CANVAS trials. No 
significant imbalances were seen in the pooled non-CANVAS studies in adverse events in the Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue disorders, vascular disorders, and Infections and infestations groupings. 
The proportion of subjects with a history of a vascular disorder adverse event was similar across 
treatment groups but treatment emergent AEs (TEAEs) with regards to vascular disorders were more 
frequent in the canagliflozin treatment groups. Most of the subjects with vascular adverse events had 
no prior history of vascular adverse event. The same applies for skin/subcutaneous adverse event: a 
similar frequency of pre-existent skin/subcutaneous adverse events was seen in all treatment groups 
but a higher frequency of these adverse events in the canagliflozin groups occurring during treatment 
was apparent.  
Although the presence of an infection/infestation adverse condition in the medical history was 
numerically higher in canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg groups (2.1% and 2.2%) relative to placebo 
(1.4%) as was the incidence of treatment-emergent infection/infestation adverse events (8.8%, 9.0% 
relative to placebo 7.0%), most patients experiencing a treatment-emergent infection/infestation 
adverse event while on study drug did not have a corresponding pre-existing condition.  
Although the relative risk of patients with a pre-existing condition to develop a corresponding TEAE is 
higher in the canagliflozin group compared to the placebo group, it appears that TEAEs developed 
independently from the medical history. However, the MAH grouped pre-existing conditions, because 
single PTs were limited in number. Therefore, it is not known whether single PTs like peripheral artery 
occlusive disease seen to occur during treatment were already present at baseline. Overall, data 
support a treatment dependent development of vascular, skin and infection AEs rather than a 
development in consequence of a pre-existing condition. 
Dapagliflozin 
Frequency of adverse events occurring during treatment was similar in all treatment groups. 
Incidences ranged from 0.3% to 13.7%. The highest incidence of events was seen in a study of 252 
patients with impaired renal function (estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) 30 to 59 
mL/min/1.73 m2, Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) equation) lasting 104 weeks.  
In one of the larger studies of longer duration (MB102029) there were numerically more patients in the 
dapagliflozin group with osteomyelitis, peripheral artery occlusive disease, skin ulcer, diabetic foot and 
diabetic neuropathy. However, the overall numbers of events were low.  
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 7/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no differences in baseline conditions of patients experiencing amputations while receiving 
dapagliflozin or control. However, there is also no imbalance in amputation rate with dapagliflozin. 
Within the evaluation of baseline conditions the MAH compared history of peripheral venous or artery 
disease (PVD/PAD) with the occurrence of vascular events during treatment in the pooled dataset of 
short-term and long term placebo controlled studies. These data suggest that baseline PVD/PAD do not 
have a major impact on the development of vascular events during treatment. 
Empagliflozin 
The majority of amputation events (94%) were reported in trial 1245.25 (EMPA-REG), a cardiovascular 
outcomes study in patients with established cardiovascular disease or at high risk for cardiovascular 
disease. Therefore, this study was primarily evaluated. With regard to the data on adverse events 
occurring under treatment in the overall population there were more patients developing peripheral 
arterial occlusive disease, intermittent claudication, femoral artery occlusion or osteomyelitis with 
empagliflozin treatment compared with placebo. However, whether these imbalances with regard to 
adverse events occurring during the trial are a consequence of baseline imbalances could only be 
evaluated for peripheral artery occlusive disease (PAOD) and diabetic foot: Patients with PAOD at 
baseline developed under empagliflozin treatment more vascular disorders than under placebo 
treatment whereas patients without PAD at baseline do not. More patients with diabetic foot at baseline 
than patients without diabetic foot at baseline develop diabetic foot related AEs during treatment 
independent of treatment. 
Risk factors 
Canagliflozin 
The MAH evaluated the influence of baseline categorical factors on amputation risk. Baseline factors 
included in the evaluation were: gender, cardiovascular disease history, peripheral vascular disease 
history, amputation history, neuropathy history, retinopathy history, nephropathy history, any diuretic 
use, loop diuretic use, non-loop diuretic use, smoking, use of insulin, baseline systolic blood pressure, 
baseline eGFR (ml/min/1.73m2), diabetes duration (< 10 vs ≥10 yrs.), baseline HbA1c (> 8 vs ≤8%) 
and as baseline continuous factors age (yrs.), diabetes duration (yrs.), systolic blood pressure 
(mmHg), eGFR (mL/min/1.73m2), HbA1c (%) and haemoglobin (g/L). After excluding factors that 
proved non-significant in the univariate analyses, initial logistic regression model analysis was run. 
Further on, a final model for multiple regression analysis was created by removing factors that did not 
contribute significantly to the final model's performance.  
Using this final logistic regression model stratified by treatment the following factors to be associated 
with an increased risk for amputation in the canagliflozin group were identified: reversible infection, 
skin ulcer, loop diuretics and VD AEs. Additional analyses showed an increased risk for amputation also 
for irreversible infection.  
In the time to onset (TTO) analysis it became apparent that infection AEs were reported in close timely 
relationship with the amputation events, regardless of treatment, in about 46 of the 101 amputation 
events. Overall, there was no apparent time-relationship between the occurrence of skin AEs or 
vascular AEs and the time to onset of amputation. The event triggering most of the amputations, 
irrespective of treatment, was infection. With regard to treatment, results were inconsistent: vascular 
AEs were the second most reported AEs in close timely relationship with amputation events for 
canagliflozin 100 mg treatment but for canagliflozin 300mg treatment and placebo treatment, skin AEs 
were the second most reported AEs just before amputation events. Neuropathic AEs were overall rarely 
reported.    
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 8/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects who experienced an amputation had numerically higher median HbA1c at baseline, 
irrespective of treatment. The overall time-course of HbA1c changes was similar between subjects with 
an amputation compared to subjects without an amputation, regardless of the treatment group. 
Baseline systolic blood pressure (SBP) was similar in subjects with or without an amputation as was 
SBP measured after randomisation and before amputation. Neither changes in HbA1c nor SBP explain 
the imbalance in amputation rate. 
The MAH evaluated concomitant antithrombotic medications (platelet aggregation inhibitors, 
particularly aspirin, and other anti-thrombotic agents) as a parameter that could potentially affect 
peripheral vascular disease (PVD). Although fewer subjects treated with 100 mg canagliflozin had 
antithrombotic treatment at baseline within the subset of patients with post-baseline amputation, 
antithrombotic treatment was increased in the canagliflozin groups during the study period but not in 
the placebo group. In conclusion, the observed increase in concomitant medication in the canagliflozin 
groups is an indirect sign of an increase in the number of patients developing conditions to be treated 
with antithrombotic agents. However, it is not known whether these conditions are peripheral vascular 
diseases. 
To further explore possible risk factors, the MAH evaluated cardiovascular disease and renal disease. In 
T2DM patients, both are often co-existing conditions, making it difficult to distinguish between effects 
caused by one or the other. Peripheral vascular disease and CV disease are known risk factors for 
amputations in diabetic patients. However, it appears that the amputation risk seen with canagliflozin 
was not further modified by the co-existence of peripheral vascular disease, CV disease nor diabetic 
nephropathy, or other risk factors for amputation.  
At the time of the marketing authorization of canagliflozin, no imbalances in major adverse 
cardiovascular events (MACE) were seen between treatment groups and therefore canagliflozin may 
not cause amputations by worsening of these risk factors. However, no imbalance in amputation rate 
was seen with the available data at that time, either. As studies in patients with high risk for CV events 
are ongoing and final MACE results are not available, it is not possible to establish whether effects on 
MACE have any effect on amputations. The CANVAS trial population showed that patients with a 
history of vascular events are more likely to develop a vascular event during treatment with 
canagliflozin than during treatment with placebo. These results should, however, be interpreted with 
caution as the overall numbers were low. This imbalance was not seen in patients without a history of 
vascular events. This analysis also focused on peripheral vascular diseases. In this analysis of 
incidence rates of post-randomisation amputation by history of risk factors in the CANVAS population it 
was observed that patients without a history of vascular events suffered more often an amputation 
surgery during treatment with canagliflozin than during treatment with placebo (incidence difference 
0.51). This difference was larger in patients without a PVD history than in patients with PVD history 
(incidence difference 0.29). It might be therefore concluded that patients with PVD history are more 
likely to develop peripheral vascular events when treated with canagliflozin compared to placebo but 
this does not translate into higher amputation rates. These results should, however, be interpreted 
with caution as sample sizes of the subgroups evaluated differed much and results are associated with 
a high variability of the derived point estimates.    
Among the completed studies in the Canagliflozin Phase 3 and 4 development program, results 
provided for study 3004 (subjects with T2DM having moderate renal impairment) are remarkable, even 
though this study was neither the longest nor the largest clinical trial: although overall the probability 
of detecting imbalances increases with sample size and study duration, the majority of amputation 
events were seen in study 3004. The overall (canagliflozin + placebo) incidence rate of amputation in 
study 3004 was 1.7 events per 100 patient years (1 event on 100mg, 1 event on 300mg and 2 events 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 9/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on placebo). This study also accounts for the highest percentage of all assessed adverse events 
compared to the other trials. Study 3004 included patients who have moderate renal impairment. If 
this patient population is population at risk, a higher amputation rate should be seen in other studies 
with renally impaired patients. CREDENCE an ongoing trial that includes diabetic patients with stage 2 
or 3 chronic kidney disease and macro-albuminuria, will report results in 2020. In the linear regression 
model evaluating risk factors, reduced baseline eGFR did however not show a significant association. 
The MAH evaluated the study populations included in CANVAS, CANVAS-R and CREDENCE for baseline 
characteristics predictive for amputations. Amputation history, neuropathy and loop diuretic use were 
more common in patients in CREDENCE trial compared to patients in CANVAS and CANVAS-R. Further 
analysis confirmed that renal impairment is a risk factor for amputations. However, an increased risk 
for patients treated with canagliflozin could not be derived from the data provided so far as study 3004 
is too small and the CREDENCE trial is still blinded. 
The MAH stated that there were differences between treatments in the baseline and post-baseline use 
of antidiabetic agents in the CANVAS study, mainly with regards to biguanide and sulphonylurea use. 
However, it is unclear whether this finding plays a significant role in explaining the imbalance between 
treatments regarding amputations. 
Dapagliflozin 
Due to the overall small number of amputation events and the lack of an amputation imbalance in the 
clinical trials completed so far, it was difficult to evaluate risk factors in patients with amputation. 
With regard to baseline conditions there were no differences in patients experiencing amputations 
while receiving dapagliflozin or control. 
Marked abnormalities of haematocrit (>55%) and haemoglobin (>18 g/dL) were more common in 
patients treated with dapagliflozin compared to placebo. Increases of haematocrit or haemoglobin did 
not have an impact on the risk of amputations.   
Cardiovascular and renal diseases are well-known risk factors for amputation regardless of treatment. 
All subjects with amputations were renally impaired at baseline. However, the majority of patients in 
the dapagliflozin group had chronic kidney disease (CKD) stage 2 whereas in the placebo group most 
patients had CKD stage 1 and nine of the 15 patients with amputations came from two larger 
cardiovascular studies. 
Empagliflozin 
To identify whether specific subgroups of patients could be at increased risk of amputations, baseline 
conditions and concomitant medications were assessed. The baseline conditions considered were: 
gender; age (categorical analysis, <65 years vs. ≥65 years); race; geographical region; body mass 
index (categorical analysis, <30 kg/m2 vs. ≥30 kg/m2); time since type 2 diabetes mellitus diagnosis 
(categorical analysis, ≤5 years, >5 to 10 years, >10 years); baseline HbA1c (categorical analysis, 
<8.0% vs. ≥8.0%); baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate (categorical analysis according to 
KDIGO CKD stages; blood pressure control; concomitant use of diuretics and loop diuretics; 
concomitant use of antidiabetic drugs (metformin, sulfonylurea, and insulin); established 
cardiovascular diseases; diabetic retino-, neuro-, and nephropathy; and diabetic foot.  
The analyses revealed that female patients treated with empagliflozin had a higher frequency of LLA 
compared to placebo (all empagliflozin 22 patients [1.6%] vs. placebo 5 patients [0.8%]). However, 
this finding was not seen in any other evaluation. 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 10/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An increased incidence of amputation events with regard to baseline conditions but independent of 
treatment was seen in patients with: 
Cardiovascular disease 
- 
Peripheral artery occlusive disease (PAOD): Amputation frequency was 6.3% for placebo and 
5.5% for all empagliflozin in subjects with PAOD compared to 0.7% for placebo and 0.9% for 
all empagliflozin in subjects without PAOD.  
-  Diabetic foot: Amputation frequency was 15.9% for placebo and 14.4% for all empagliflozin in 
subjects with diabetic foot compared to 0.9% on placebo 1.1% for all empagliflozin in subjects 
without diabetic foot.  
-  History of Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG): amputation frequency was 2.5% for 
placebo and 2.3% for all empagliflozin in subjects with CABG compared to 1.6% for placebo 
and 1.7% for all empagliflozin in subjects without CABG. 
Renal disease 
- 
LLA was reported more frequently in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment than 
in patients with normal or mildly impaired renal function 
Use of diuretics 
-  A small increase in the frequency of LLA was seen in patients who used diuretics and loop 
diuretics. A similar increase was seen in the events potentially leading to LLA.  
Use of antidiabetic medication 
- 
Patients treated with insulin had a higher frequency of LLA. 
Patients with a history of stroke, coronary artery disease and hypertension did not have a higher 
frequency of LLA.  
Patients treated with metformin had even a lower frequency of LLA compared to patients not treated 
with metformin. A similar result was seen with the use of sulfonylurea. 
There was no difference in the mean and median change from baseline values of haematocrit neither 
at the end of the treatment, nor in the maximal change from baseline value on treatment in either the 
placebo or empagliflozin arms for patients with LLA compared to the patients without such an event. 
The mean and median change from baseline maximal and last values on treatment of haematocrit 
(HCT) did not differ between the patients with and without PAOD or diabetic foot related AEs, two 
conditions which lead to LLA, neither in the placebo nor in empagliflozin treatment arms. 
Possible Mechanism of action - Volume depletion  
Canagliflozin 
The MAH favoured as possible mechanism for the amputation findings the hypothesis that osmotic 
diuresis and concomitant reduction in extravascular volume lead to altered tissue perfusion. If volume 
depletion is the main trigger for amputation risk a dose response relationship would be expected, 
which is currently not observed. It was also considered that malnutrition of the lower limb is more 
likely due to a long-term volume reduction rather than a short-term volume depletion leading to 
clinically noticed volume depletion events. However, although volume depletion events occurred mainly 
in the first three months after treatment start, amputation events have been reported throughout the 
whole observational period.  
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 11/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reduced glucose supply to peripheral tissues accompanying glycosuria and volume reduction may also 
play a role in volume depletion. Osmotic diuresis should occur to a lesser extent in renally impaired 
patients. Although patients in the CANVAS and CANVAS-R study are expected to be a population with 
compromised vascular function, who is therefore at particularly high overall risk for amputations, the 
highest overall incidence of amputations in the completed studies in the Canagliflozin Phase 3 and 4 
development program were observed in study 3004 which included renally impaired patients. Renally 
impaired patients therefore appear to be at even higher risk for amputations. Currently a clinical trial 
(CREDENCE) is ongoing in renally impaired patients with final results expected in 2020  
Dapagliflozin 
As no difference in amputation risk has been found with dapagliflozin it is difficult to evaluate the 
mechanism for amputation imbalance. Volume depletion is reported slightly more often in subjects 
treated with dapagliflozin compared with subjects treated with placebo. The difference between 
treatment groups was also seen in subjects older than 65 years of age, on loop diuretics, and with 
renal impairment. However, all subgroup results are based on very few events.  
Empagliflozin 
In EMPA-REG, 5 patients with LLA also had AEs related to volume depletion. The frequency of volume 
depletion related AEs was not significantly increased in patients with LLA. It appears that although 
there was a slightly higher number of volume depletion AEs in the empagliflozin 25 mg group than in 
the placebo group, there was no relation between patients with LLA and patients reporting volume 
depletion AEs. It also appeared that empagliflozin has an effect on LLA if patients use (loop) diuretics 
but not if patients do not use (loop) diuretics. However, the low number of the subgroup of patients 
with LLA does not allow for a definite conclusion. 
SGLT2/SGLT1 affinity - off-target activity 
Canagliflozin 
Regarding mechanisms by which canagliflozin may increase the risk of amputations, the MAH 
considered that a direct or indirect influence of SGLT inhibition on factors predisposing or leading to 
amputation was unlikely. This is justified by the fact that SGLT2 is not known to be expressed in 
vascular, neural, non-renal tubule epithelial, mesenchymal or hematopoietic cells. However, further 
evaluation of SGLT1/2 affinity has shown that canagliflozin is selective for SGLT2, but with a small 
remaining affinity to SGLT1 that is higher for canagliflozin than for other members of the class. 
Canagliflozin has been shown to act similarly to dapagliflozin with regards to urinary glucose excretion 
(UGE) in the first four hours but showed a higher excretion beyond the fourth hour. Whether this is 
due to higher overall potency of the drug, prolonged elimination with partly reabsorption of 
canagliflozin in the proximal tubules or additional SGLT1 binding in the kidney is unknown. For 
Canagliflozin 300 mg, it has been shown that the substance can have a clinical effect on SGLT1 in the 
lumen of the intestine in the form of reducing glucose absorption. The MAH considers plasma 
concentration of the free (unbound to plasma proteins) and non-metabolised drug to be too low to 
produce a clinical effect with regard to amputation. However, if the drug acts from the luminal side of 
the proximal tubules of the kidney or the intestine, low plasma concentration and high protein binding 
might not be crucial factors. SGLT1 has also been found in the endothelium of cerebral, renal, and 
mesenteric arteries. It has been connected with cardiac reorganization after ischemic insult and wound 
healing from heat injury. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown (Turk, 1991). 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 12/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dapagliflozin 
Dapagliflozin shows a high selectivity for SGLT2. According to the dapagliflozin MAH, the increased 
glycosuria seen with canagliflozin compared to dapagliflozin is attributed to the fact that SGLT1 
inhibition further reduces kidney glucose reabsorption. The dapagliflozin MAH considers that SGLT1 
inhibition may be involved in the occurrence of amputation events and is a potential explanation for 
certain differences in the safety profiles between canagliflozin on one hand and 
dapagliflozin/empagliflozin on the other hand. However, all three SGLT2i are selective for SGLT2 with a 
remaining very small SGLT1 inhibition, which extent varies between the different substances. SGLT1 
has been found in tissues other than kidney or the intestine but there are no studies evaluating SGLT1 
in the endothelium of the lower limb. An action on SGLT1 in these tissues is possible but not yet 
confirmed. SGLT1 action in the kidneys is possible but also yet not established. 
Empagliflozin 
Empagliflozin demonstrated the highest selectivity towards SGLT2 in the class. In humans, 
empagliflozin has a high specificity for SGLT-2 vs SGLT-1 (selectivity ~5000x) compared to 
dapagliflozin (selectivity ~1200x) and canagliflozin (selectivity ~158x). It is unlikely that inhibition of 
SGLT-1 will be achieved at clinical therapeutic exposures of empagliflozin. The rat is considered as the 
non-clinical species, in which at high doses there is the highest inhibition of SGLT-1 due to the lower 
specificity towards SGLT-2. In rat, there is no evidence for an effect of empagliflozin on 
microvasculature in non-clinical toxicity studies. Although publications suggest that SGLT1 is present in 
tissues other than the kidney or the intestine and although publications suggest that SGLT1 may be 
involved in recovery from cellular injury or may have an impact on muscle glucose metabolism, 
literature concludes there is no direct link between SGLT-1 inhibition and an increased risk of 
amputations. However, as data is limited, a SGLT1 involvement cannot be excluded (Banerjee, 2009; 
Elfeber, 2004 (2); Gaudreault, 2006; Ikari, 2004; Kanwal, 2016; Kolka, 2005; Vemula, 2009). 
Class effect 
A meaningful inhibition of SGLT1 or other members of the transporter family may be doubted due to 
the high selectivity for SGLT2 and because the systemic exposure of the free drug (unbound to plasma 
proteins) may be too low to induce relevant inhibition. However, as all SGLT2 inhibitors follow the 
same general mode of action, differences in selectivity for different members of the SGLT family or 
different potencies in inhibiting the transporter would be one explanation for differences seen in 
amputation rate with SGLT2 inhibitors. In addition, if canagliflozin acts from the luminal side of the 
renal tubules or the intestine then low systemic exposure as well as high protein binding is no 
argument against transporter inhibition. The MAH of canagliflozin suggested that the most likely 
mechanism is increased urinary glucose excretion due to SGLT2 inhibition leading to volume reduction 
and impaired tissue perfusion in the lower limb so that patients with already impaired tissue perfusion 
will more likely develop conditions that lead to amputations. This mechanism, however, would be a 
class effect. After review of the available information, a class effect can neither be proven nor 
disproven. On one hand, even if differences in potency, selectivity and pharmacokinetics may lead to 
differences in the risk profile, as all members of the class follow the same mode of action, in principle 
they should share similar risks. On the other hand, it should be considered that an increased risk of 
amputations was observed for canagliflozin in an interim-analysis of two ongoing (blinded) trials, but 
no imbalances in amputation events were observed in analyses of other completed trials of 
canagliflozin, dapagliflozin and empagliflozin and data for dapagliflozin from the large CV study 
(DECLARE) are not yet available. It should also be taken into account that data on amputations was 
not systematically collected; hence misclassification of amputation events might bias the results of 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 13/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
these analyses. The magnitude and direction of this bias is therefore unknown. Notably, subgroups of 
patients at increased risk for amputations could not be clearly identified in the analyses of the 
conditions that are risk factors for surgical amputations.  
Given the data provided and discussed to date it is considered that "Lower limb amputations" is an 
identified risk for canagliflozin. In addition, due to remaining uncertainties in the analysis of the 
available data as a result of possible misclassification of the outcome (amputations), "Lower limb 
amputations" is a potential risk for dapagliflozin and empagliflozin-containing products. The relevant 
data should be collected in future trials with SGLT2-containing products, as well as from the post-
marketing setting and discussed in future PSURs until sufficient data becomes available to either 
confirm or refute the risk of amputations for SGLT2 inhibitors in general or canagliflozin, dapagliflozin 
and/or empagliflozin in particular. Communication of this risk via product information and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities to be reflected in the RMP is considered warranted. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
Benefits 
From an efficacy perspective, data from the clinical development programme assessed during the 
marketing authorisation procedure of canagliflozin, dapagliflozin and empagliflozin containing medicinal 
products have shown that sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors used together with diet 
and exercise, either alone or in combination with other diabetes medicines, are effective medicines in 
patients with type 2 diabetes with regard to their ability to improve glycaemic control.  
No new efficacy data have been assessed during this referral procedure.  
Uncertainty about benefits 
Large clinical studies for canagliflozin (CANVAS, CANVAS-R and CREDENCE) and dapagliflozin 
(DECLARE) are ongoing and final MACE results are not yet available. Data is missing for canagliflozin 
regarding use in paediatric patients, use in pregnancy and by nursing mothers, use in very elderly 
patients (≥ 85 years), patients with severe hepatic impairment and patients with congestive heart 
failure defined as New-York Heart association (NYHA) class III-IV. There is data missing regarding the 
use in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR<30mG/min/1.73m2).  
For dapagliflozin, there is limited data for the use in patients who are non-white and/or older than 65 
years old. 
Data is missing for empagliflozin regarding paediatric use as well as, for use in elderly patients, 
pregnancy/breast-feeding, and for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Risks 
Identified risks for canagliflozin as outlined in the risk management plan are vulvovaginal candidiasis, 
balanitis or balanoposthitis, urinary tract infections, hypoglycemia in combination with insulin or 
glucose-independent insulin secretagogues, volume depletion, bone fractures, renal impairment/renal 
failure, hypersensitivity and diabetic ketoacidosis with atypical presentation. 
Identified risks for dapagliflozin as outlined in the risk management plan are genital infections, urinary 
tract infections and diabetic ketoacidosis with atypical presentation. 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 14/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Identified risks for empagliflozin as outlined in the risk management plan are urinary tract infection, 
genital infection, volume depletion hypoglycemia (with insulin and/or sulphonylurea) and diabetic 
ketoacidosis with atypical presentation. 
An updated interim analysis of amputation events the CANVAS trial (cut-off September 2016) provided 
during the procedure showed an incidence of non-traumatic, lower-extremity amputations in the 
canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg group (3.3% and 2.6%, respectively) compared to placebo (1.3%) 
and incidence rates of lower-extremity amputation was 0.66, 0.52, and 0.27 events per 100 patient-
year exposure in the canagliflozin 100 mg, canagliflozin 300 mg, and placebo groups, respectively. For 
the ongoing CANVAS-R there was an incidence rate of 0.77 and 0.39 events per 100 patient-year 
exposure to the canagliflozin group or placebo. 
No imbalances in amputation events were observed within the large CV outcome trials evaluating 
empagliflozin (EMPA-REG) or dapagliflozin (DECLARE), but amputation events were not systematically 
captured within these trials. Final results for the DECLARE study are expected to be available in 2020. 
Similarly, no imbalances were seen in the pooled analyses of the completed phase 3 or 4 of 
canagliflozin, dapagliflozin or empagliflozin. 
Uncertainties about risks 
Potential risks for canagliflozin include clinical consequences of increased haematocrit, photosensitivity, 
hypoglycaemia in the absence of insulin or glucose-independent insulin secretagogues, off-label use for 
weight loss and pancreatitis. 
Potential risks for dapagliflozin include hypoglycaemia, volume depletion, clinical consequences of 
increased haematocrit, renal impairment/failure, bone fracture, liver injury, hypersensitivity reactions, 
bladder cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer and off-label use of dapagliflozin in specific populations.  
Potential risks for empagliflozin include urinary tract carcinogenicity, liver injury, off-label use (e.g. for 
weight loss in non-T2DM patients) and bone fracture. 
With regard to amputation risk neither the mechanism behind the occurrence of amputation events in 
canagliflozin treated patients in large clinical trials nor the risk factors beyond common risk factors for 
amputation events in diabetic patients are known. Final results for the CANVAS and CANVAS-R studies 
are expected to be available in 2018. Final results for the DECLARE study are expected to be available 
in 2020. Currently, a class effect can neither be confirmed nor refuted. 
Conclusion 
Having considered all available data, the PRAC was of the view that the growing data on amputation in 
the CANVAS and CANVAS-R trial confirm an increased amputation risk for canagliflozin; it is unlikely 
that the difference in amputation risk seen with canagliflozin compared to placebo is a finding by 
chance. The PRAC also considered that data on amputation events from clinical trials and post-
marketing surveillance for dapagliflozin and empagliflozin-containing medicines are either not available 
to the same extent as for canagliflozin-containing medicines or here were some limitations in the data 
collection.  
The PRAC was also of the view that it is currently not possible to identify an underlying cause for the 
observed imbalances in amputation risk that would be specifically attributable to canagliflozin-
containing medicines and not to the other products of the class. All members of the class share the 
same mode of action and there is no confirmed underlying mechanism that is canagliflozin-specific. 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 15/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The mechanism of action that would allow understanding which patients are at risk is therefore still 
unclear. 
PRAC noted that an increased amputation risk has only become apparent with canagliflozin so far, but 
one large cardiovascular outcome study (DECLARE) is still on-going for dapagliflozin and amputation 
events were not been systematically captured within the completed large cardiovascular outcome 
study conducted with empagliflozin (EMPA-REG). Hence, it is currently not possible to establish 
whether the increased amputation risk is a class effect or not.  
Therefore, having considered all the data submitted, in view of the above, the PRAC concluded that the 
benefit-risk balance of the above listed products remains positive, but considered that changes to the 
product information of all authorised SGLT2 inhibitors adding information on the risk of lower limb 
amputations, as well as additional pharmacovigilance activities to be reflected in the RMP, are 
warranted. The CANVAS and CANVAS-R studies and the CREDENCE and DECLARE Studies are planned 
to be completed in 2017 and 2020, respectively. Final analysis of these studies, after un-blinding, will 
provide further information on the benefit/risk of SGLT2 inhibitors particularly of the risk of lower limb 
amputations. 
4.  Risk management 
4.1.  Safety specification 
The PRAC considered that lower limb amputation should be included as important risk in the risk 
management plan (RMP) for all SGLT2 inhibitors. PRAC concluded that lower limb amputation should 
be considered an important identified risk for canagliflozin and an important potential risk for 
dapagliflozin and empagliflozin in the respective RMPs. The MAH(s) have amended their respective 
RMPs(s) accordingly. 
4.2.  Pharmacovigilance plan 
PRAC requested that the MAHs also implement the following pharmacovigilance measures (routine and 
additional pharmacovigilance activities): 
4.2.1.  Routine pharmacovigilance: Specific adverse reaction follow-up 
questionnaires 
•  All MAHs should capture amputation cases “adverse event of special interest” in all ongoing and 
future clinical studies of duration superior to 12 weeks for all SGLT2 inhibitors as well as preceding 
events, including for cases not leading to an amputation event, as per a list of preferred terms 
provided in attachment 2 and to be specified in the RMP and included in the safety specification;  
•  All MAHs should implement a dedicated case report form (CRF) for clinical trials and targeted follow-
up questionnaires for post-marketing reports in order to capture and better characterise amputation 
events as well as relevant events preceding amputation. Use of the case report forms (CRFs) and 
questionnaires should be triggered by the reporting of events as per the list of preferred terms 
specified in the RMP; apart from searching amputation events, MAHs should search for events 
preceding an amputation. The reporting of any of these events should act as a trigger for the 
dedicated CRF or targeted follow-up questionnaire. The report forms (CRF (clinical trials) and 
questionnaire (post-marketing reports)) should be kept as short as possible, in order to not impose 
too much burden on clinical practice while still collecting the relevant information. Relevant 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 16/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information should include details regarding amputation (level/date), aetiology leading to 
amputation/preceding events (start date, management, complications), exposure to the drug (start 
date, end date, dosage) and medical history. Questions about preceding events should at least 
include peripheral vascular disease, diabetic foot, peripheral neuropathy, lower limb infection 
including ulcer and gangrene and dehydration. Relevant medical history should at least include 
diabetes type, renal impairment estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR)), tobacco use and 
level of diabetes control (HbA1c).  
•  As a result, RMP updates for all products should be submitted within 1 month after EC decision on 
this procedure taking into account the above requests. 
4.2.2.  Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
•  The MAH for canagliflozin proposed an observational study in a US database as a category 3 study 
in the RMP as well as relevant timelines for protocol and results submissions. The MAH also included 
the feasibility assessment for an EU observational study for evaluation of amputations in EU 
databases as a category 3 PASS.  The study protocol and feasibility assessment for these 2 studies 
as well as the timelines for submission of the results of the US observational study should be 
submitted for assessment no later than one month following the European Commission decision on 
this referral procedure; 
•  The MAH for canagliflozin has also proposed the conduct of a meta-analysis as a category 3 study in 
the RMP. The PRAC considers that the analysis of the meta-analysis should include, for each study 
(including CREDENCE, CANVAS and CANVAS-R), a graph of the cumulative incidence of amputation 
events and in addition, relevant preceding adverse events of special interest (gangrene, 
osteomyelitis, etc.) over time. This analysis should also provide the cumulative proportion of 
patients with amputations and additionally relevant preceding events and show the number of 
patients "at risk" at relevant time points. The protocol of this meta-analysis should be submitted 
earlier for review than initially proposed.  Timelines for submission of the meta-analysis protocol 
that will allow for sufficient time for regulatory review of the protocol should be included in the 
updated RMP, that should be submitted no later than one month following the European 
Commission decision on this procedure ; 
•  The MAH for dapagliflozin has proposed the conduct of a meta-analysis as a category 3 PASS in the 
RMP. The PRAC considers that this analysis, should include, for each study (including DECLARE, 
D1690C00018 and D1690C00019), a graph of the cumulative incidence of amputation events and in 
addition, relevant preceding adverse events of special interest (gangrene, osteomyelitis, etc.) over 
time. This analysis should also provide the cumulative proportion of patients with amputations and 
additionally relevant preceding events and show the number of patients "at risk" at relevant time 
points. Timelines for submission of the protocol of this meta-analysis for review should be included 
in the updated RMP that should be submitted  within 1 month after European Commission decision 
on this procedure. . 
•  The MAH for empagliflozin has proposed the conduct of a meta-analysis of the two chronic heart 
failure (HF) studies together with the EMPA-REG trial (1245.110, 1245.121, and 1245.25) as a 
category 3 PASS in the RMP as well as relevant timelines for protocol and results submissions. The 
PRAC considers that the analysis of the meta-analysis should include, for each study, a graph of the 
cumulative incidence of amputation events and in addition, relevant preceding adverse events of 
special interest (gangrene, osteomyelitis, etc.) over time. This analysis should also provide the 
cumulative proportion of patients with amputations and additionally relevant preceding events and 
show the number of patients "at risk" at relevant time points. The MAH should also consider 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 17/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
analysing the two studies in the HF population, namely 1245.110, 1245.121, separately as well as 
conducing separate analyses of patients with and without T2DM. Timelines for submission of the 
protocol of this meta-analysis for review should be submitted within the updated RMP to be 
submitted within 1 month after European Commission decision on this procedure. 
4.2.3.  Amendments to the product information 
The PRAC considered that routine risk minimisation measures in the form of updates to the product 
information were necessary in order to minimise the risk of lower limb amputation associated with the 
use of SGLT2 inhibitors. These changes include amendments to section 4.4 (for canagliflozin, 
dapagliflozin and empagliflozin) and 4.8 (for canagliflozin only) of the SmPC as presented in 
Attachment 1. 
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly. 
5.  Grounds for Recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for the 
products listed in Annex A of the PRAC recommendation; 
The PRAC reviewed the totality of the data submitted by the marketing authorisation holders in 
relation to the risk of lower limb amputation in patients treated with Sodium-glucose co-
transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors for type 2 diabetes mellitus;  
The PRAC considered that the available data on amputation in the CANVAS and CANVAS-R 
trials confirm that treatment with canagliflozin may contribute to an increased risk of 
amputation of the lower limb, mainly of the toe; 
The PRAC was also of the opinion that a mechanism of action, allowing to understand which 
patients are at risk, is still unclear;  
The PRAC was of the view that it is currently not possible to identify an underlying cause for 
the observed imbalances in amputation risk that would be specifically attributable to 
canagliflozin-containing medicines and not to the other products of the class; 
The PRAC noted that data on amputation events from clinical trials and post-marketing 
surveillance for dapagliflozin and empagliflozin-containing medicines are either not available to 
the same extent as for canagliflozin-containing medicines or there were some limitations in the 
data collection of these events; 
The PRAC therefore considered that the risk may constitute a possible class effect; 
•  Because no specific risk factors could be identified apart from general amputation risk factors 
potentially contributing to the events, the PRAC recommended that patients should be advised 
on routine preventative foot care and maintaining adequate hydration as a general advice to 
prevent amputation; 
• 
The PRAC was therefore of the view that the risk of lower limb amputation should be included 
in the product information for all products listed in Annex A, with a warning highlighting to 
healthcare professional and patients the importance of routine preventative foot care. The 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 18/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
warning for canagliflozin also includes information that, in patients developing amputation 
preceding events, consideration may be given to discontinue treatment. For canagliflozin, lower 
limb amputations (mainly of the toe) have been also included, as an adverse drug reaction, in 
the product information; 
• 
The PRAC also considered that additional information on amputation events should be collected 
through appropriate case report forms (CRFs) for clinical trials, follow-up questionnaires for 
post-marketing cases, use of common MedDRA preferred term (PT) lists for amputation 
preceding events, and appropriate meta-analyses of large studies including cardiovascular 
outcome studies. All RMPs should be updated accordingly via an appropriate variation to be 
submitted no later than one month of the European Commission decision;  
The PRAC, as a consequence, concluded that the benefit-risk balance of the SGLT2 inhibitor containing 
products identified in Annex A remains favourable, subject to the agreed amendments to the product 
information and additional pharmacovigilance activities to be reflected in the RMP. 
The PRAC therefore recommended that the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for 
the above listed products referred to in Annex A, for which the relevant sections of the summary of 
product characteristics and package leaflet are set out in Annex III of the PRAC recommendation, was 
warranted.  
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 19/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment 1 - Amendments to the product information as 
recommended by the PRAC 
For all products in Annex I, the existing product information shall be amended (insertion, replacement 
or deletion of the text, as appropriate) to reflect the agreed wording as provided below 
Summary of product characteristics 
Canagliflozin 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use  
A warning should be added as follows:  
Lower Limb Amputations 
In ongoing, long-term clinical studies of canagliflozin in T2DM patients with cardiovascular disease 
(CVD) or at high risk for CVD, an increase in cases of lower limb amputation (primarily of the toe) has 
been observed in patients treated with canagliflozin.  
As an underlying mechanism has not been established, risk factors, apart from general risk factors, for 
amputation are unknown. However, as precautionary measures, consideration should be given to 
carefully monitoring patients with a higher risk for amputation events and counselling patients about 
the importance of routine preventative foot care and maintaining adequate hydration. Consideration 
may also be given to stopping treatment with canagliflozin in patients that develop events preceding 
amputation such as lower-extremity skin ulcer, infection, osteomyelitis or gangrene. 
4.8 Undesirable effects  
The following adverse reaction(s) should be added under the SOC Surgical and medical procedures 
with a frequency uncommon as follows: 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
System organ class 
Adverse reaction 
Frequency 
Surgical and medical procedures 
uncommon 
lower limb amputations (mainly of the toe) 
especially in patients at high risk for heart 
disease 
Package leaflet 
Section 2: What you need to know before you take canagliflozin 
Warnings and precautions 
It is important to check your feet regularly and adhere to any other advice regarding foot care and 
adequate hydration given by your health care professional. You should notify your doctor immediately 
if you notice any wounds or discolouration, or if your experience any tenderness or pain in your feet. 
Some studies indicate that taking canagliflozin may have contributed to the risk of lower limb 
amputation (mainly toe amputations). 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 20/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Possible side effects 
Other side effects: 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
lower limb amputations (mainly of the toe) especially if you are at high risk of heart disease 
Dapagliflozin 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use  
A warning should be added as follows:  
Lower limb amputations 
An increase in cases of lower limb amputation (primarily of the toe) has been observed in ongoing 
long-term, clinical studies with another SGLT2 inhibitor. It is unknown whether this constitutes a class 
effect. Like for all diabetic patients it is important to counsel patients on routine preventative foot-care. 
Package leaflet 
Section 2: What you need to know before you take dapagliflozin 
Warnings and precautions 
Like for all diabetic patients it is important to check your feet regularly and adhere to any other advice 
regarding foot care given by your health care professional. 
Empagliflozin 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use  
A warning should be added as follows:  
Lower limb amputations 
An increase in cases of lower limb amputation (primarily of the toe) has been observed in ongoing 
long-term, clinical studies with another SGLT2 inhibitor. It is unknown whether this constitutes a class 
effect. Like for all diabetic patients it is important to counsel patients on routine preventative foot-care. 
Package leaflet 
Section 2: What you need to know before you take dapagliflozin 
Warnings and precautions 
Like for all diabetic patients it is important to check your feet regularly and adhere to any other advice 
regarding foot care given by your health care professional. 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 21/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment 2 - List of PTs for preceding events 
Vascular AEs 
Angiopathy 
Arterial bypass operation 
Arterial disorder 
Arterial graft 
Arterial occlusive disease 
Arterial stenosis 
Arterial stent insertion 
Arteriosclerosis 
Arterial thrombosis 
Arterial therapeutic procedure 
Diabetic microangiopathy 
Diabetic vascular disorder 
Femoral artery occlusion 
Iliac artery occlusion 
Intermittent claudication 
Ischaemic limb pain 
Microangiopathy 
PAOD Peripheral arterial occlusive disease 
Peripheral ischaemia 
Peripheral coldness 
Peripheral artery stenosis 
Peripheral artery restenosis 
Peripheral artery occlusion 
Peripheral artery thrombosis 
Peripheral vascular disorder 
Peripheral ischaemia 
Peripheral arterial re-occlusion 
Peripheral vascular disorder 
Poor peripheral circulation 
Peripheral artery angioplasty 
Peripheral endarterectomy 
Peripheral artery bypass 
Peripheral artery stent insertion 
Spontaneous amputation 
Thrombosis 
Diabetic foot related AEs 
Atherosclerotic gangrene 
Bone abscess 
Diabetic foot 
Diabetic foot infection 
Diabetic gangrene 
Diabetic neuropathic ulcer 
Diabetic ulcer 
Dry gangrene 
Cellulitis enterococcal 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 22/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cellulitis staphylococcal 
Cellulitis streptococcal 
Cellulitis gangrenous 
Extremity necrosis 
Gangrene 
Infections Cellulitis 
Infected skin ulcer 
Infected skin ulcer 
Ischaemic ulcer 
Localised infection 
Necrosis ischaemic 
Neuropathic ulcer 
Osteitis 
Osteomyelitis 
Osteomyelitis acute 
Osteomyelitis bacterial 
Osteomyelitis chronic 
Osteomyelitis fungal 
Osteomyelitis salmonella 
Osteonecrosis 
Penetrating atherosclerotic ulcer 
Post-operative wound infection 
Skin erosion 
Skin ulcer 
Staphylococcal osteomyelitis 
Soft tissue infection 
Subperiosteal abscess 
Wound/Infection 
Abscess limb  
Burn infection 
Impaired healing 
Wound 
Skin wound 
Skin infection 
Subcutaneous abscess 
Vasculitic ulcer 
Wound abscess 
Wound complication 
Wound dehiscence 
Wound infection 
Wound infection bacterial 
Wound infection fungal 
Wound infection staphylococcal 
Wound infection pseudomonas 
Wound necrosis 
Wound sepsis 
Wound treatment 
Nervous System Disorders 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 23/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Areflexia 
Autonomic neuropathy 
Burning sensation 
Diabetic neuropathy 
Hypoaesthesia 
Neuropathy peripheral 
Paraesthesia 
Peripheral sensory neuropathy 
Peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy 
Sensory disturbance 
Volume depletion 
Hypovolaemia 
Dehydration 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 24/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
1.  Banerjee SK, McGaffin KR, Pastor-Soler NM, Ahmad F: SGLT1 is a novel cardiac glucose transporter 
that is perturbed in disease states. Cardiovasc Res. 2009 Oct, 1;84(1):111-8. 
2.  Elfeber K, Köhler A, Lutzenburg M, Osswald C, Galla HJ, Witte OW, Koepsell H, Localization of the 
Na+-D-glucose cotransporter SGLT1 in the blood-brain barrier, Histochem Cell Biol., 2004 Mar, 
121(3):201-7. 
3.  Elfeber K, Stümpel F, Gorboulev V, Mattig S, Deussen A, Kaissling B, Koepsell H, Na(+)-D-glucose 
cotransporter in muscle capillaries increases glucose permeability, Biochem Biophys Res Commun., 
2004 Feb, 6;314(2):301-5. 
4.  Gaudreault NI, Scriven DR, Moore ED, Asymmetric subcellular distribution of glucose transporters 
in the endothelium of small contractile arteries, Endothelium, 2006 Sep-Oct,13(5):317-24. 
5.  Ikari A, Regulatory mechanisms of intracellular distribution of Na+-dependent glucose transporter 
and the role in recovery from cellular injury], Yakugaku Zasshi, 2004 Dec, 124(12):959-64. 
6.  Kanwal A, Nizami HL, Mallapudi S, Putcha UK, Mohan GK, Banerjee SK. Inhibition of SGLT1 
abrogates preconditioning-induced cardioprotection against ischemia-reperfusion injury, Biochem 
Biophys Res Commun., 2016 Apr, 1;472(2):392-8. 
7.  Kayssy A, Al-Atassi T, Oreoupoulos G, Roche-Nagle G, Tan KT, Rajan DK, Drug-eluting balloon 
angioplasty versus uncoated balloon angioplasty for peripheral arterial disease of the lower limbs, 
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 2016 Aug. 
8.  Turk E, Zabel B, Mundlos S, Dyer J, Wright EM, Glucose /galactose malabsorption caused by a 
defect in Na+/glucose coransporter, Nature, 1991, 350:354-356. 
9.  Vemula S, Roder KE, Yang T, Bhat GJ, Thekkumkara TJ, Abbruscato TJ, A functional role for 
sodium-dependent glucose transport across the blood-brain barrier during oxygen glucose 
deprivation, J Pharmacol Exp Ther., 2009 Feb, 328(2):487-95. 
PRAC assessment report  
EMA/144426/2017  
Page 25/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
