European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.:EMEA/123999/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Volibris 
International Nonproprietary Name: ambrisentan 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000839 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE .................................................3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION.......................................................................................................5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 17 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 37 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 41 
2/44 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier    
The  applicant  Glaxo  Group  Limited  submitted  on  2  March  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Volibris,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 4 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 11 April 2005. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The  applicant  Glaxo  Group  Limited  submitted  on  2  March  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised  procedure  for 
Volibris,  which  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  EU/3/05/273  on  11  April  2005. 
Volibris  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  in  the  following  indication:    Treatment  of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. The calculated 
prevalence of this condition was in the ranges from 0.187 to 0.26 per 100,000 EU populations. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication  treatment  of  pulmonary  arterial  hypertension 
(PAH).   
Similarity: 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) 
No  847/2000,  the  application  contained  a  critical  report  addressing  the  possible  similarity  with 
authorised orphan medicinal products. 
Scientific Advice: 
Scientific  Advice  was  received  from  the  CHMP  on  15  December  2005.  The  Scientific  Advice 
pertained to quality and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries: United States on 18 December 2006. 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Concepción Prieto Yerro   
Co-Rapporteur: Martin Votava 
3/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 2 March 2007. 
The procedure started on 21 March 2007.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  13  June 
2007 . The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 8 
June 2007.  
During  the  meeting  on  16-19  July  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 23 July 2007 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  5 
October 2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 29 November 2007. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  10-14  December  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
21 January 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 5 February 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  18-21  February  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Volibris on 21 February 2008. The applicant provided the 
letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 18 February 
2008. 
The  CHMP  adopted  a  report  on  similarity  of  Volibris  with  iloprost  (Ventavis®),  treprostinil 
(Remodulin®),  bosentan  (Tracleer®),  sildenafil  (Revatio®),  and  sitaxentan  (Thelin®)  on  19 
July 2007. 
The  CHMP  opinions  were  forwarded,  in  all  official  languages  of  the  European  Union,  to  the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decisions on 21 April 2008. 
4/44 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (PAH) is an uncommon disease of the small pulmonary arteries that 
is  characterised  by  vascular  proliferation  and  remodelling.  It  results  in  increased  pulmonary  artery 
pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance and, ultimately, right ventricular heart failure and death. 
The World Health Organization (WHO) functional assessment classification of PAH is as follows:  
•  Class  I:  PAH  without  a  resulting  limitation  of  physical  activity.  Ordinary  physical  activity 
does not cause undue dyspnoea or fatigue, chest pain, or near-syncope. 
•  Class II: PAH resulting in a slight limitation of physical activity. The patient is comfortable at 
rest,  but  ordinary  physical  activity  causes  undue  dyspnoea  or  fatigue,  chest  pain,  or  near-
syncope. 
•  Class III: PAH resulting a marked limitation of physical activity. The patient is comfortable at 
rest,  but  less  than  ordinary  activity  causes  undue  dyspnoea  or  fatigue,  chest  pain,  or  near-
syncope. 
•  Class IV: PAH resulting in an inability to carry out any physical activity without symptoms. 
The patient has signs of right heart failure. Dyspnoea, fatigue, or both may be present even at 
rest, and discomfort is increased by any physical activity.  
Treatment options are limited for PAH. At present, conventional treatment for patients with primary 
and  secondary  PAH  includes  calcium-channel  blockers,  anticoagulants,  diuretics  and  oxygen.  In 
addition,  two  oral  endothelin-1  receptor  antagonists  (bosentan  and  sitaxentan),  an  intravenous 
prostacyclin  (epoprostenol),  an 
inhaled  prostacylin  (iloprost),  a  subcutaneous  prostacyclin 
(treprostinil) and a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor (sildenafil) have also been licensed for the treatment 
of  PAH  in  various  European  countries.  Of  these,  bosentan  (Tracleer®),  iloprost  (Ventavis®), 
sildenafil (Revatio®) and sitaxentan (Thelin®) have been authorised through the centralised procedure 
for  orphan  medicinal  products.  All  these  four  medicinal  products  are  only  licensed  for  patients  with 
NYHA/WHO functional class III. As a final alternative, a lung or heart/lung transplant may be offered 
to the patient. 
The  present  application  for  marketing  authorisation  of  Volibris  is  made  under  Article  8.3  (i)  and 
concerns a new active substance, ambrisentan, for which a complete dossier has been submitted. 
The approved indication for Volibris is: “the treatment of patients with pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH) classified as WHO functional class II and III, to improve exercise capacity (see 
section 5.1). Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH associated with 
connective tissue disease”.  
Volibris  is  to  be  taken  orally  at  a  dose  of  5 mg  once  daily  with  or  without  food.  Some  additional 
efficacy  has  been  observed  with  10 mg  Volibris  in  patients  with  class  III  symptoms,  however  an 
increase in peripheral oedema has also been observed. Patients with PAH associated with connective 
tissue disease may require 10 mg Volibris for optimal efficacy.  
Ambrisentan  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  EU/3/05/273  on  11  April  2005,  in  the 
following  indications:  Treatment  of  pulmonary  arterial  hypertension  and  chronic  thromboembolic 
pulmonary hypertension. The calculated prevalence of these conditions was in the ranges from 0.187 
to 0.26 per 100,000 EU populations. 
5/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Volibris contains ambrisentan as the active substance. It is presented as immediate release film-coated 
tablets in two strengths of 5mg and 10 mg. To avoid confusion the two strengths have different colour, 
shape and markings. 
Other  ingredients  in  the  tablet  core  include  lactose  monohydrate,  microcrystalline  cellulose, 
crosscaramellose  sodium  and  magnesium  stearate.  The  tablets  are  coated  with  an  aesthetic  film 
coating. 
The  tablets  are  packaged  in  opaque  polyvinyl  chloride/polyvinylidene  chloride  (PVC/PVdC)  and 
aluminium foil blisters. 
Active Substance 
The  chemical  name  of  ambrisentan 
diphenylpropanoic acid.  
is  (S)-2-(4,6-dimethylpyrimidin-2-yloxy)-3-methoxy-3,3-
COOH
H3CO
*
O
N
N
CH3
CH3
                   * Chiral centre 
The molecular structure of ambrisentan contains a single chiral centre with two possible enantiomeric 
forms  (R-  ,  S-enantiomers).  The  active  substance  is  the  resolved  S-enantiomer  that  in  non-clinical 
studies has been shown to be the most active.  
Ambrisentan  is  a  white  to  off-white  crystalline  substance  that  is  practically  insoluble  in  water  (0.06 
mg/ml),  but  soluble  in  alkaline  buffer  solutions  and  a  range  of  organic  solvents.  There  is  only  one 
crystalline form and no evidence of polymorphism.  
The chemical structure of ambrisentan has been confirmed by elemental analysis, mass spectrometry, 
nuclear  magnetic 
IR 
spectrophotometry. 
resonance  spectrometry,  single  crystal  X-ray  diffraction,  UV  and 
Manufacture 
• 
The active substance is synthesised in four steps using benzophenone, methyl chloroacetate and 4, 6-
dimethyl-2-methyl-sulfonyl-pyrimidine,  as  starting  materials.  The  synthetic  process  is  designed  to 
selectively produce the S-enantiomer. 
The impurity profile of ambrisentan has been extensively studied. All potential impurities have been 
identified  and  characterised  and  appropriate  levels  have  been  set  supported  by  the  results  of 
toxicological  studies.  All  solvents  used  in  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance  are  controlled  in 
compliance with ICH guidelines. 
Batch  analysis  data  from  nine  non-clinical,  clinical  and  stability  batches  and  three  production  scale 
batches demonstrate the ability of the manufacturing process to produce a constant crystalline form.  
Specification 
• 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  identification,  water  content,  assay 
(IR, chiral HPLC), specified impurities (HPLC), enantiomeric purity (chiral HPLC), residual solvents 
(GC), heavy metals (Ph.Eur.), sulfated ash (Ph.Eur.) and particle size (sieving). 
The  analytical  methods  employed  are  either  pharmacopoeial  or  have  been  adequately  described  and 
validated and are considered to be suitable to control the quality of the active substance.  
Batch  analysis  data  have  been  provided  for  six  batches  manufactured  by  the  method  intended  for 
commercial  manufacturing  and  six  batches  manufactured  by  an  earlier  slightly  different  synthetic 
process. In all cases the results comply with the proposed specifications. 
6/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
• 
Stability  studies  have  been  performed  in  accordance  with  ICH  requirements.  Samples  from  three 
batches manufactured using the process intended for marketing have been stored at 40ºC/75%RH for 6 
months and at 25ºC/60%RH for 24 months. 
The parameters tested were appearance, water content, related substances, R-enantiomer and assay. 
The analytical methods used were the same as those used for routine testing and have been shown to 
be stability indicating. In all cases the stability results presented were satisfactory and support the 
proposed shelf life. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Ambrisentan is formulated as immediate-release film coated tablets in 5 and 10 mg strengths for oral 
administration. The active substance is considered to be a “low solubility and high permeability drug” 
(Class  II  in  the  Biopharmaceutics  Classification  System,  (BCS)).  Since  it  is  practically  insoluble  in 
water, dissolution is the rate eliminating step for its release. Therefore the particle size of the active 
substance is considered to be a critical quality attribute and a control test has been introduced in the 
specifications.  In  addition  a  dissolution  test  has  been  developed  to  control  the  release  of  the  active 
substance.  The  test  is  using  a  biorelevant  medium  and  a  pH  within  the  range,  where  ambrisentan  is 
soluble,  in  order  to  avoid  the  use  of  surfactants.  The  discriminatory  power  of  the  dissolution  test  to 
identify  formulation  or  manufacturing  changes  with  an  impact  to  product  quality  has  been 
satisfactorily demonstrated. 
The excipients used in the formulation development are commonly used in oral dosage forms. A non-
bovine (vegetable) source of magnesium stearate is used, while lactose monohydrate is manufactured 
using  milk  sourced  from  healthy  animals  in  the  same  conditions  as  milk  collected  for  human 
consumption  in  accordance  with  the  “Note  for  Guidance  on  Minimizing  the  Risk  of  Transmiting 
Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agents  via  Human  and  Veterinary  Medicinal  Products”.  All 
excipients  comply  with  their  corresponding  European  Pharmacopoeia  monographs  and  there  is  no 
need  for  additional  requirements  to  assure  consistent  product  performance.  The  compatibility  of  the 
excipients with the active substance has been demonstrated through appropriate stability studies. 
Ambrisentan  tablets  are  packaged  into  blister  strips,  formed  with  opaque  polyvinyl  chloride  (PVC) 
film  coated  with  polyvinylidene  chloride  (PVdC).  The  packaging  materials  comply  with  the 
requirements of the Directive pertaining to suitability for direct contact with foodstuffs. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  direct  compression  process  and  consists  of  the  following 
steps: mixing, tableting and film coating. 
All  critical  process  parameters  have  been  identified  and  are  controlled  by  appropriate  in  process 
controls.  The  reproducibility  and  robustness  of  the  manufacturing  process  has  been  sufficiently 
demonstrated  with  the  manufacture  of  several  production  scale  batches.  At  the  time  of  approval  no 
validation  studies  have  been  performed,  however  the  applicant  has  submitted  the  process  validation 
scheme for the finished product, which will be applied to three consecutive production scale batches 
prior to commercialisation.  
Different product formulations have been used in the early studies compared to the one intended for 
marketing.  However  bioequivalence  between  the  clinical  trial  formulations  and  the  one  intended  for 
marketing has been demonstrated. 
•  Product Specification 
The  specification  of  the  finished  product  at  release  and  shelf  life  includes  tests  for  appearance, 
identification  (UV  and  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC),  content  uniformity  (Ph.Eur.), 
dissolution  and  microbial  purity  (HPLC).  All  tests  included  in  the  specification  have  been 
satisfactorily described and the analytical procedures employed are adequately validated. 
Batch analysis data from 14 stability and clinical batches (5 and 10 mg tablets) have been presented. 
All batches met the test limits as defined in the release specification and test methodology valid at the 
time of batch release. 
7/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies were carried out on three primary stability batches for each strength manufactured at 
the commercial site and scale according to ICH requirements. Samples were stored at 25oC/60 % RH 
for 18 months, 30oC/65 % RH for 12 months and 40oC/75 % RH for 6 months. The parameters tested 
were appearance, assay, related substances, dissolution, hardness and water content.  
In all cases the stability results presented were satisfactory and support the proposed shelf life for the 
commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SPC. For both the 5 and 10 mg 
tablets  stored  under  accelerated  conditions  a  considerable  decrease  in  tablet  hardness  was  observed. 
However this did not result in a decrease in ambrisentan content, formation of degradation products or 
change  in  the  dissolution  profile.  Therefore,  the  observed  changes  in  tablet  hardness  do  not  impact 
product quality or functionality. 
Data  have  also  been  presented  from  forced  degradation  and  photostability  studies.  The  results 
demonstrate  that  the  finished  product  does  not  require  additional  protection  from  light  and  that 
significant degradation is only observed under acidic or oxidative stress conditions. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The quality of Volibris is adequately established. In general, satisfactory chemical and pharmaceutical 
documentation has been submitted for marketing authorization. There are no major deviations from 
EU and ICH requirements. 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  It  exhibits  low  solubility  and  high 
permeability (Class II in BCS) and a suitable dissolution method has been developed to test its release. 
The excipients are commonly used in immediate release oral formulations and comply with Ph. Eur. 
requirements.  The  packaging  material  is  commonly  used  and  well  documented.  The  manufacturing 
process  of  the  finished  product  is  a  standard  direct  compression  process  that  has  been  adequately 
described. Stability tests indicate that the product under ICH guidelines conditions is chemically stable 
for the proposed shelf life. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects      
Introduction 
Two  sources  of  data  were  used  for  the  summarized  non-clinical  results  in  this  application:  studies 
initiated  by  Knoll  AG,  Germany  and  studies  undertaken  by  or  for  Gilead  Colorado  Inc.,  USA 
(formerly Myogen Inc., USA). 
Investigation of the toxicological properties of ambrisentan commenced in 1999 with the last reports 
completed at the end of 2006.  
Safety pharmacology (24 out of 27) and all pivotal toxicology studies were conducted in compliance 
with  Good  Laboratory  Practice  (GLP)  regulations.  GLP  compliant  studies  were  performed  under 
conditions commensurate with national and international regulatory guidance that were current from 
years 1997 through 2006. Pharmacokinetics were not determined in the safety pharmacology studies 
(years  1998  to  2000),  but  toxicokinetics  were  routinely  evaluated  in  the  series  of  GLP  toxicology 
studies (years 1998 to 2006). 
The  non-clinical  studies  were  performed  using  several  different  batches  of  ambrisentan  drug 
substance.  The  spectrum  of  impurities  and  degradants  present  in  these  batches  was  in  general 
comparable  to  that  proposed  for  the  commercial  specification  for  drug  substance  and  drug  product, 
unless for the R-enantiomer which  was below the  specification of 0.5%. The  proposed specification 
for  ambrisentan  contains  no  impurities  at  levels  above  ICH  qualification  thresholds.  Therefore  no 
specific  studies  have  been  performed  to  investigate  the  non-clinical  properties  of  impurities, 
degradation products or formulation excipients. 
All  non-clinical  safety  studies  have  been  undertaken  with  ambrisentan,  the  resolved  S-enantiomeric 
form with >99% enantiomeric purity. 
8/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this assessment report, CHMP/ICH Non-clinical Guidelines have been considered, and mainly Note 
for  guidance  on  safety  pharmacology  studies  for  human  pharmaceuticals  CPMP/ICH/539/00  (ICH 
topic S7A), Note for Guidance on the non-clinical evaluation of the potential for delayed ventricular 
repolarization  (QT  interval  prolongation)  by  human  pharmaceuticals  CHMP/ICH/423/02  (ICH  topic 
S7B),  Guideline  on  detection  of  early  signals  of  drug-induced  hepatotoxicity  in  non-clinical  studies 
CHMP/SWP/150115/2006  (Draft),  Notes  for  Guidance  on  the  limits  of  genotoxic  impurities 
CPMP/SWP/5199/02  and  CHMP/QWP/251344/2006,  Note  for  Guidance  on 
the  need  for 
carcinogenicity studies of pharmaceuticals CPMP/ICH/140/95 (ICH topic S1A), Note for Guidance on 
carcinogenicity:  testing  for  carcinogenicity  of  pharmaceuticals  CPMP/ICH/299/95  (ICH  topic  S1B), 
and Dose selection for carcinogenicity studies of pharmaceuticals & Limited Dose CPMP/ICH/383/95 
(ICH  topic  S1  C  (R1)),  Note  for  Guidance  on  immunotoxicity  studies  for  human  pharmaceuticals 
CHMP/167235/2004  (ICH  topic  S8),  Guidance  on  the  environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal 
products for human use CHMP/SWP/4447/00, and the multidisciplinary Guideline on Investigation of 
Chiral Active Substances. 
Pharmacology 
The primary and secondary pharmacodynamics (PD) studies were not evaluated with respect to 
ambrisentan's action in males and females separately. 
In 2 non-clinical studies both male and female animals were used; however, the data were averaged 
across  gender,  suggesting  that  ambrisentan  was  effective  independent  of  sex.  This  approach  was 
considered acceptable. 
The lack of an animal PAH model to describe PD profile of ambrisentan was also adequately justified 
by the applicant. 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Ambrisentan  is  an  orally  active,  non-sulfonamide,  propanoic-class,  endothelin  receptor  antagonist 
(ERA)  that  is  selective  for  the  endothelin  type  A  (ETA)  receptor.  ETA  receptor  antagonists  inhibit 
phospholipase  C-mediated  vasoconstriction  and  protein  kinase  C-mediated  cell  proliferation,  while 
preserving  nitric  oxide  (NO)  and  prostacyclin  production,  cyclic  GMP-  and  cyclic  AMP-mediated 
vasodilation,  and  endothelin-1  (ET-1)  clearance  that  is  associated  with  the  endothelin  type  B  (ETB) 
receptor.  
ERAs  have  proven  therapeutic  benefit  in  the  treatment  of  PAH in  humans.  Ambrisentan  has  a  high 
affinity  (Ki of  16 pM)  against  human  myocardial  native  ETA  receptors,  with  selectivity  for  the 
ETA receptor  of  approximately  4000-fold  relative  to  the  ETB  receptor.  Under  the  experimental 
conditions of the study MSR-0001, ambrisentan demonstrated higher affinity (lower Ki) than the prior 
approved  ERAs,  bosentan  and  sitaxentan.  The  selectivity  for  the  ETA  receptor  was  in  line  with 
sitaxentan (Ki ratio ETB: ETA 4347±1237 vs 3302±365, mean ± SEM, respectively). 
Oral doses of ambrisentan were demonstrated to block the pressor effects of exogenous endothelin in 
the  intact  rat,  to  decrease  arterial  blood  pressure  in  intact  rats  and  dogs  and  to  inhibit  neointimal 
proliferation after arterial damage in the pig. Ambrisentan showed a vascular antiproliferative effect in 
the  balloon  catheter  injured  coronary  artery  of  the  pig,  an  action  that  suggests  this  drug  has  the 
potential  to  attenuate  the  detrimental  pulmonary  vascular  remodelling  common  to  PAH  patients,  as 
consequence of proliferation of myofibroblast cells in the intima of small pulmonary arteries. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
When tested for specificity using a battery (100) of receptors and ion channels, ambrisentan, at 10 µM 
was not active (<50% inhibition). The R-enantiomer and 4-hydroxymethyl metabolite of ambrisentan 
(BSF 379912) were also inactive in a similar specificity panel. According to these results, ambrisentan 
is unlikely to interact with a wide variety of receptors/ion channels at concentration similar or slightly 
above  the  clinical  plasma  levels.  However,  it  is  observed  that  the  studies  to  investigate  the  binding 
response  curves  to  histamine  and  acetylcholine  of  ambrisentan  have  been  performed  for  affinity  to 
9/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
wide receptor panels, high-throughput profile and contraction fixed concentrations up to 10 µM, which 
means a low safety margin of approximately 3-fold the clinical plasma concentration. 
The  applicant  conducted  a  study  of  ambrisentan  effects  on  haemolysis  and  coagulation 
(MPF/FG9924E).  Human  blood  samples  were  used  in  this  study.  Presented  values  of  haemoglobin 
(Hb)  concentration  were  different  from  the  average  values  (decimal  place  and  absolute  value).  This 
difference was adequately clarified. Hereafter there was a decrease of Hb concentration independent 
on the dose administered.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
A complete core battery of safety pharmacology on vital functions and several supplemental studies on 
other  organ  systems  have  been  performed.  All  the  batches  used  in  preclinical  and  clinical  studies 
contained  only  up  to  a  0.3%  of  the  R-  enantiomer,  whereas  the  proposed  quality  specifications  for 
ambrisentan claim a content of this impurity up to 0.5%. Consequently, the safety pharmacology and 
toxicity preclinical studies conducted with ambrisentan support the qualification of the R-enantiomer 
impurity only up to 0.3 % in most cases. Up to 5% was considered qualified in vivo (see Impurities in 
Toxicology Section). 
The  maximum  concentration  of  ambrisentan  in  the  in  vitro  safety  pharmacology  studies  reached  10 
µM, with the exception of the hERG assay where ambrisentan was tested at 10 µM and 100 µM. In the 
in  vivo  studies,  doses  used  were  10  to  300 mg/kg  administered  via  intravenous  (i.v.)  or  oral  route. 
Animal exposure achieved was not measured. Nevertheless, the safety margins were roughly estimated 
where possible based on plasma concentration data from repeat dose toxicology studies. For in vitro 
studies,  the  safety  margin  based  on  Cmax  is  low  (approximately  3).  For  in  vivo  studies,  the  safety 
margin based on animal to human exposure ratio occasionally is also low. 
Several possible central and peripheral nervous system-related toxicological findings are observed in 
the  safety  pharmacology  studies  reports  (e.g.  increased  aggressive  behaviour  and  startle  response  in 
mice  Irwin’s  test)  and  in  the  chronic  toxicity  studies  (e.g.  hypersalivation,  vomiting  in  dogs). 
Locomotor activity and motor coordination study results concluded that ambrisentan had no effect on 
motor activity in mice.  
No  relevant  effects  on  cardiac  output,  ECG,  blood  velocity,  respiratory  rate,  tidal  volume,  minute 
volume and minute ventilation were observed in anesthetized dogs treated with ambrisentan (MPF/FG 
9910E).  In  this  study,  Q-T  prolongation  did  not  occur,  but  across  the  chronic  toxicology  studies  in 
dogs,  a  slight  Q-T  interval  prolongation  was  reported  in  2  of  3  studies  (7  to  8%  and  9  to  11%).  In 
primary  PD  study  MPF/FE  9924  on  conscious  male  normotensive  dogs,  QT  remained  basically 
unaffected, but QTc intervals could not be calculated since individual animal line item data were not 
available. 
Ambrisentan had no significant effect on hERG tail current (eliciting a 6.3% and 17.5% inhibition at 
10  and  100  µM,  respectively)  and  had  no  effect  on  action  potential  parameters  (duration  of  action 
potential (APD) repolarization, maximum upstroke velocity, and amplitude of the action potential) of 
isolated guinea pig papillary muscle. It is concluded that ambrisentan is unlikely to cause any relevant 
cardiac effect in humans.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Studies of non-clinical PD drug interactions have not been performed with ambrisentan. There is the 
potential  for  clinical  drug-drug  interactions  with  concomitantly  administered  vasodilators  including 
other specific treatments for PAH (e.g., prostenoids and sildenafil). The potential for such interactions 
has been monitored in the clinic setting, and therefore the lack of preclinical studies is acceptable. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Studies  characterizing  the  ADME  properties  of  ambrisentan  in  pre-clinical  species  showed  that  the 
disposition characteristics were generally similar across the species tested. 
10/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following i.v. administration, ambrisentan resulted to be a low clearance compound with low to 
moderate volume of distribution in all preclinical species. The elimination was characterized as 
triphasic, with terminal half-life of about 6-8 hours in rats and dogs. In humans, the terminal half-life 
following oral administration was determined to be approximately 15 hours (range 13.6 to 16.5 hours) 
in healthy volunteers and 9 to 15 hours in PAH patients.  
Absorption 
Ambrisentan  was  well  absorbed  following  oral  administration.  It  also  showed  high  absolute  oral 
bioavailability in preclinical species, indicating that it undergoes little or no first pass metabolism. In 
the toxicology studies, toxicokinetic results demonstrated that escalation in dose generally resulted in a 
proportional  increase  in  systemic  exposure.  The  exposure  was  generally  higher  in  females  than  in 
males;  however,  the  differences  were  generally  less  than  2-fold.  A  relationship  between  higher 
systemic  exposure  and  a  greater  susceptibility  to  the  toxicological  effects  of  ambrisentan  was  seen 
more  in  female  mice  and  dogs  than  in  males.  This  was  not  observed  in  rats.  Consequently,  it  is 
concluded that the occurrence of gender-related AUC variation and AUC oscillations over the time in 
all species cannot be ruled out. Ambrisentan exposures determined periodically in repeat dose studies 
in  mouse,  rat  and  dog,  showed,  although  not  consistently,  a  reduction  in  AUC  over  the  time  in  a 
chronic treatment (beyond week 26). The reason for this exposure decrement is unknown, although it 
could  be  due  to  reduced  absorption  and/or  increased  elimination  of  ambrisentan.  The  population 
pharmacokinetic  analysis  did  not  however  show  any  clinically  significant  gender  difference  in 
pharmacokinetics  of  ambrisentan  in  humans.  Therefore,  although  change  in  exposure  over  time  was 
observed in preclinical species, pharmacokinetics in humans has shown to be time-independent in both 
healthy volunteers and in PAH patients. 
Distribution 
In vitro results showed that ambrisentan binds to plasma proteins to a higher extent in humans (98.9%) 
than  in  preclinical  species  (91.8-97.2%).  In  human  serum,  it  was  apparent  that  albumin  was  the 
primary binding protein in human plasma. 
The results of a rat tissue distribution study with [14C]-ambrisentan indicated a wide distribution of 
drug into tissues but elimination occurred relatively rapidly. There was no evidence of retention in any 
tissues, including melanin-containing tissues. Since ambrisentan is not anticipated to pose a phototoxic 
risk to humans, the lack of studies of phototoxicity is justified. 
No data on milk excretion and placental transfer have been provided and no further investigations are 
requested since ambrisentan is considered to be teratogenic. 
(M4),  dihydroxylated  ambrisentan 
(M3),  O-demethylated  ambrisentan 
Metabolism 
Metabolism  data  obtained  following  administration  of  [14C]-ambrisentan  showed  that  metabolic 
pathways  for  ambrisentan  were  qualitatively  similar  in  various  species.  The  metabolites  identified 
include  4,6  dimethyl-2-hydroxypryimidine  (M1),  ambrisentan  glucuronide  (M2),  hydroxylated 
ambrisentan 
(M5), 
dihydroxylated  ambrisentan  glucuronide  (M6),  hydroxylated  ambrisentan  glucuronide  (M7),  and  O-
demethylhydroxymethyl  ambrisentan  (M8).  M7  was  not  detected  as  a  circulating  metabolite  in  pre-
clinical species, however, it represented <2% of the plasma radioactivity in humans. Acyl glucuronide 
metabolite (M2) was a substantial  metabolite in dog plasma accounting for 21-28% of radioactivity, 
and  a  minor  metabolite  in  mouse,  rat,  and  rabbit  (5%  of  radioactivity).  The  formation  of  acyl 
glucuronide metabolites has been associated with immunogenic responses. Nevertheless, according to 
the applicant, the acyl glucuronide of ambrisentan (M2) is unlikely to cause allergic reactions due to 
the  lack  of  covalent  binding  to  proteins  observed  in  an  in  vitro  study  with  dog  plasma.  This  result 
suggests  that  the  likelihood  for  protein  adduct  formation  that  could  act  as  hapten  is  low,  but  this 
possibility cannot be excluded, since the immunogenicity of ambrisentan and its metabolites has not 
been tested (see Antigenicity in Toxicology section). 
Hydroxylated ambrisentan (M3), the only other major metabolite observed in human plasma was also 
seen in the mouse, rat, and rabbit plasma, but not in dog plasma. 
Excretion 
Based on disposition studies conducted with [14C]-ambrisentan, it was apparent that the primary route 
of  excretion  of  drug-related  material  was  faeces  in  all  preclinical  species  as  well  as  in  humans.  In 
11/44 
 
 
 
 
 
humans,  about  66%  of  the  dose  was  recovered  in  faeces  and  in  animal  species,  the  faecal  recovery 
generally accounted for 69%-91% of the dose. Urinary excretion was a minor route of elimination in 
both animal species (7-23%) as well as in humans (23%). Studies conducted in bile duct-cannulated 
rats  and  dogs  suggested  that  in  large  part,  faecal  radioactivity  likely  represented  absorbed  dose  that 
was secreted in bile. Also in a rat study, results suggested the potential for a substantial enterohepatic 
recirculation of ambrisentan and possibly its metabolite. 
All three metabolites observed in human excreta, M2, M3, and M7, were also observed in preclinical 
species, either in urine, or faeces, indicating that these metabolic pathways for ambrisentan observed 
in humans were also operative in animal species. 
induce 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Ambrisentan is metabolised by phase I oxidative metabolism and by phase II hepatic glucuronidation. 
About  30%  of  the  administered  dose  undergoes  oxidative  metabolism  mainly  by  CYP3A4  and  to  a 
lesser extent by CYP3A5 and CYP2C19. The induction effect of ambrisentan on hepatic phase I and II 
enzymes  was  examined  ex  vivo  in both  rats  and  dogs,  following  repeated  oral  administration  during 
toxicology studies. There was no clear evidence from these studies that ambrisentan has the potential 
to 
or 
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase  (UDP-GT)  concentration  or  activity  in  rodents,  at  clinically  relevant 
concentrations. Upon incubation of ambrisentan with liver microsomes, the formation of glucuronide 
metabolite  was  unaffected  by  the  presence  of  any  of  the  24  potential  concomitant  drugs  at 
concentrations up to 10-times the maximal therapeutic levels expected in humans. The above results 
suggest that ambrisentan is unlikely to be involved in metabolism-related drug-drug interactions. The 
potential effect of ambrisentan on human hepatic cytochromes has not been totally clear (see Clinical 
PK section). Oral treatment for 4 weeks of Wistar rats produced an increase of CYP4A and a slight to 
moderate increase of UDP-GT in males and females, at 400 mg/kg/day (Report MPF/DT 6199).  
glutathione-S-transferase 
cytochrome 
enzymes, 
(GST) 
P450 
Oral treatment for 4 weeks in dogs produced strong evidence that ambrisentan acts as a moderate to 
marked phenobarbital-type like P450 inducer, with slight to moderate induction of cytochrome b5 (38 
to 85%) and total cytochrome P450 (22 to 97%), both in males and females (Report MPF/PT 3301). 
The  hepatocellular  centrilobular  hypertrophy  observed  in  dogs  treated  with  1000mg/kg/day  for  4 
weeks was associated with increased cytochrome P450. The mechanism underlying the same finding 
in mice treated with 150 mg/kg/day, and in rats given >100 mg/kg/day remains unclear (see Repeat 
Dose liver finding in the Toxicology section). 
The  effect  of  ambrisentan  on  human  hepatic  CYP450  was  evaluated  in  vitro  on  cDNA-expressed 
human  CYP  isoforms  (Report  MPF/DDM  0025).  The  results  showed  that  ambrisentan  is  a  slight 
inductor  of  CYP1A2  (32%)  and  had  a  very  week  inhibitory  effect  on  CYP3A4  (10%)  at  a 
concentration of 10 µM (approximately 3-fold the clinical Cmax). Bosentan and sitaxentan by contrast 
are  principally  metabolized  by  hepatic  cytochromes  and  are  an  inducer  and  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4 
respectively. 
Data  was  presented  concerning  influence  of  CYP3A4  inhibition  on  metabolism  of  ambrisentan,  and 
also  on  ambrisentan  effect  on  inhibition  of  CYP  isoforms.  Exposure  of  ambrisentan  expressed  with 
increased  AUC(0-  ∞)  and  Cmax  values  after  co-administration  of  strong  CYP3A4  inhibitor  is  of  no 
clinical significance. 
Ambrisentan  did  not  inhibit  human  Pgp-mediated  transport  of  digoxin  in  MDCK  cells  at 
concentrations up to 100 µM, but it was a substrate for P-gp and its transport was inhibited a 56% by 
cyclosporine in a CaCo-2 monolayer model. 
In studies using the rat hepatocyte sandwich cell culture model, it was found that ambrisentan had no 
inhibitory  effect  on  the  four  transporters  investigated.  Under  the  same  conditions,  marked 
concentration-dependent  inhibition  was  observed  with  two  other  endothelin  receptor  antagonists, 
bosentan and sitaxentan, that are structurally distinct from ambrisentan. 
Results  of  studies  conducted  to  evaluate  the  inductive  effects  of  ambrisentan  on  hepatic  transport 
suggest  that  the  likelihood  of  ambrisentan  having  an  adverse  interaction  with  hepatic  transporters  is 
low. 
12/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
The toxicity profile of ambrisentan has been defined in oral and i.v. single dose studies in mouse and 
rat, and in oral repeat dose studies of up to 13 weeks duration in mice, 6 months duration in rats and 9 
months duration in dogs.  
In  all  the  definitive  repeat  dose  studies,  including  carcinogenicity  and  embryofetal  development 
toxicity  studies,  toxicokinetics  were  evaluated.  With  the  exception  of  2  i.v.  single  dose  studies,  all 
other  studies  used  an  oral  administration  route  (gavage,  capsule  or  diet  admixture).  Toxicokinetic 
measurements in dietary studies were comparable to those obtained in gavage studies. For therapeutic 
administration  ambrisentan  has  been  formulated  for  oral  administration  at  dosages  up  to  10 mg/day 
(equivalent  to  200 µg/kg  to  a  50 kg  person).  At  the  highest  dose  of  10 mg,  given  once  daily  for  12 
weeks to subjects with PAH (two females and one male), the steady state Cmax  ss was 1.19 µg/ml and 
AUCss 0-24h was 14 µg.h/ml [Report AMB-220]. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
The  maximum  oral  non-lethal  single  dose  of  ambrisentan  is  1000  mg/kg  in  the  mouse,  and  3160 
mg/kg in the rat. The maximum i.v. non-lethal single dose of ambrisentan is 511 mg/kg in the mouse, 
and 464 mg/kg in the rat. Clinical signs observed at lethal doses included lassitude, forced respiration, 
prone  position,  partial  palpebral  closure,  convulsions,  and  injection  site  reactions  (tail  necrosis). 
Necropsy findings on decedents revealed congestion in the lungs, liver and kidneys. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Ambrisentan was well tolerated for up to 3 months in mice at a NOAEL of 60 mg/kg/day, based on 
findings in the nasal  cavities. In  male rats dosed for 6 months, the NOAEL was lower than the low 
dose of 5 mg/kg/day due to an increased incidence of diffuse testicular tubular atrophy. In females, the 
NOAEL  was  5 mg/kg/day  based  on  nasal  cavity  findings.  Systemic  exposures  in  rat  and  mouse  at 
these  dose  levels  were  below  the  estimated  efficacious  human  exposure  level.  In  dogs,  the  NOAEL 
could not be established, due to testicular atrophy in males and rales in females treated at the lowest 
dose level of 30 mg/kg/day. The safety margin for these findings should be <6- fold the clinical AUC, 
in  any  case.  For  the  rest  of  toxicological  effects,  the  NOAEL  was  established  to  be  100 mg/kg/day 
based  on  clinical  observations  of  audible  breathing  sounds,  emesis  and  occasional  behavioural 
changes. This dose corresponds to approximately 14-fold and 17-fold the estimated efficacious human 
exposure level, respectively. 
Nasal cavity effects 
Nasal  inflammation  and  epithelial  degeneration  effects  observed  in  the  nasal  cavity  of  rodents  with 
ambrisentan occurred at exposures below the estimated human exposure. These findings are similar in 
nature  to  the  degenerative  changes  of  the  olfactory  epithelium  reported  for  sitaxentan  [EPAR  for 
Thelin  (sitaxentan),  2006].  Nasal  changes  with  bosentan  are  limited  to  flushed  appearance, 
inflammation of the throat and nasal passages [EPAR for Tracleer (bosentan), 2005]. 
In the dog, minimal to slight purulent recoverable inflammation was observed in the nasal cavity for 
animals dosed at 900 mg/kg/day for 26 weeks, corresponding to an AUC of 190.0 and 243.5 µg hr/ml 
in males and females, respectively. 
The  implication  of  these  findings  for  humans  is  unknown,  however,  an  elevated  incidence  of  upper 
respiratory  tract  conditions  (including  nasal  congestion,  rhinitis  and  sinusitis)  have  been  reported  in 
clinical studies. 
Nasal  bone  hyperplasia  of  the  ethmoid  turbinates  observed  in  the  nasal  cavity  of  rats  treated  with 
ambrisentan,  at  exposure  level  3-  fold  the  clinical  AUC,  are  not  reported  for  other  ERAs  and  its 
possible mechanism remains unexplained. 
13/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  applicant  was  requested  to  further  clarify  the  potential  mechanism  causing  the  nasal  bone 
hyperplasia effect of ambrisentan and its possible clinical relevance. The mechanism of this effect is 
not  clear  but  an  association  with  inflammatory  process  in  the  nasal  cavity  area  is  suggested.  The 
possibility of relation between endothelin-1 level and incidence of nasal cavity effects is very likely. 
The statement regarding this finding in animals has been maintained in the SPC since similar effects in 
humans after long-term exposure cannot be discarded. 
Testes/epididymides 
Testicular  tubular  atrophy,  occasionally  associated  with  aspermia,  not  always  fully  recoverable,  has 
been observed in all tested preclinical species, including dogs, without safety margin. The relevance of 
these  findings  to  human  males  is  unknown,  however,  no  adverse  effects  were  observed  in  a  limited 
analysis of semen samples and of male fertility hormones from clinical study AMB320/321. Further 
clinical data however will be provided post-authorisation. 
Testicular tubular atrophy has also been reported with other approved endothelin receptor antagonists. 
Liver 
Long-term  administration  of  ambrisentan  revealed  centrilobular  hypertrophy  in  mice  treated  with 
150 mg/kg/day,  in  rats  given  ≥100 mg/kg/day  and  in  dogs  treated  with  250  (females)  or 
500 mg/kg/BID (males) treated at 500 mg/kg/BID. 
In  mouse  studies  after  13  weeks  of  treatment  at  doses  of  500 mg/kg/day  and  above,  there  were 
increases (2- to 3-fold concurrent controls) in serum AST and ALT levels in females, associated with 
slight fatty change, with a safety margin of 2- fold, based on clinical AUC. Increases in AST, ALT and 
AP  have  been  observed  in  male  rats  receiving  500 mg/kg/day  for  26  weeks,  at  exposure  levels 
approximately  15-  fold  the  human  AUC.  In  dogs,  females  treated  with  500 mg/kg/BID  displayed  a 
marked  increase  (5-fold)  ALT  activity,  with  an  approximate  safety  margin  of  40-  fold  the  clinical 
AUC. 
In  mice  and  dogs  some  relationship  was  observed  between  the  pattern  of  susceptibility  to  the 
toxicological liver effects of ambrisentan and the higher systemic exposure, this was seen in females 
more than in males, and not observed in rats, thus supporting a gender-related AUC variation. 
According to the Guideline on detection of early signals of drug-induced hepatotoxicity in non-clinical 
studies CHMP/SWP/150115/2006 (Draft), the occurrence of histopathological liver alterations and the 
increase  of  ALT  activity  in  the  range  of  2-4-fold  higher  than  controls  should  be  sufficient  to  raise 
concern as an indication of potential hepatic injury.  
In order to address the potential hepatotoxicity of ambrisentan the applicant was requested to comment 
more in depth on the relationship of the content in P450, the histopathological liver alterations and the 
serum  hepatic  enzyme  changes  observed  in  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs. 
Further  discussion  on  the  relevance  of  these  findings  to  predict  human  hepatotoxicity  was  also 
requested. Furthermore, the applicant was requested to justify the lack of in vitro mechanistic tests for 
potential  hepatotoxicity  (step  II),  given  the  known  class  effect  and  the  early  hepatotoxic  signals 
occurring in vivo (step I).  This issue was addressed, and the conclusion reached, based on the in vivo 
experience  with  ambrisentan  in  multiple  preclinical  species,  is  that  ambrisentan  does  not  present  a 
hepatic  toxicology  concern  (step  I).  Accordingly,  additional  studies  are  not  considered  to  be 
warranted. This conclusion is reflected in the SPC. 
•  Genotoxicity 
A complete genotoxicity studies battery has been conducted with ambrisentan. There are no concerns 
on the mutagenic or a clastogenic risk to humans.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
14/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lifelong treatment with ambrisentan was not associated with an increase in the incidence of neoplasms 
in mice and rats. 
Oral administration of ambrisentan to rats at 30/20 mg/kg (dose lowered on week 51) and mice at 100 
mg/kg for 104 weeks did not result in an increased incidence of neoplasms. These doses correspond to 
AUC of 55.6 and 68.7 µg.h/ml in the rat (exposure <5- fold AUC at the MRHD) and 11.8 and 19.1 
µg.h/ml  in  the  mouse  (exposure  <2-  fold  AUC  at  the  MRHD),  for  males  and  females,  respectively. 
Nevertheless,  these  results  might  be  flawed  by  the  treatment  early  termination  due  to  declining 
survival of the high dose group on week 69 for males and week 93 for females in rats, and on week 76 
in females and week 96 in males in mice. Besides, the female mice high dose group was terminated at 
week 84 due to low survival while high dose males were maintained to scheduled termination. These 
limitations  might  have  hampered  the  potency  of  the  studies  to  identify  carcinogenic  potential.  No 
additional  studies  were  considered  to  be  required.  The  applicant  however  was  requested  to  discuss 
further  in  depth  the  consequences  of  the  early  treatment  termination  and  poor  survival  on  the 
interpretation  of  carcinogenesis  results,  clearly  defining 
the  mechanism  of  ambrisentan’s 
pharmacological  activity  to  which  the  non-neoplastic  effects  observed  in  long-term  studies  are 
attributed.  It  was  concluded  that  administration  of  ambrisentan  to  rodents  likely  results  in  increased 
levels  of  endogenous  endothelin-1.  However,  relevant  increase  in  level  of  endothelin-1  was  not 
observed  in  humans  after  administration  of  therapeutic  dose  of  ambrisentan.  Respiratory  distress, 
especially nasal cavity inflammation and hyperplasia as consequence of increased level of endogenous 
endothelin-1 are unlikely to occur in humans and were not observed in the presented clinical studies. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Ambrisentan  treatment  resulted  in  testicular  tubular  atrophy,  altered  sperm  morphology,  a  slight 
increase  in  pre-implantation  loss,  and  a  slight  reduction  in  male  and  female  fertility  indices.  The 
occurrence of testicular tubular atrophy and associated infertility did not fully reverse after a 13 week 
off-treatment recovery period. There were no test-item related effects on embryonic early development 
when  ambrisentan  was  administered  directly  to  pregnant  female  rats,  or  indirectly  via  treatment  of 
males. The NOAEL for male fertility was less than the low dose of 10 mg/kg/day. The NOAEL for 
female  fertility  (due  to  the  slight  increase  in  pre-implantation  loss),  and  early  embryo-foetal 
development (gestation days 0-6), is 100 mg/kg/day. 
In a subsequent male fertility study, dosed at 300 mg/kg/day, no effects were observed in reproduction 
parameters,  however  reductions  in  epididymal  weight,  sperm  count,  and  decreased  numbers  of 
morphologically normal sperm were observed at the end of treatment, which reversed following a 20 
week  recovery  period.  Microscopic  evaluation  revealed  testicular  tubular  atrophy  at  the  end  of 
treatment, which failed to fully reverse. 
Ambrisentan was shown to be teratogenic to rats and rabbits when administered on gestation days 6 
through 18 in embryo-foetal development studies, at exposures lower than 4-fold and 2- fold the AUC 
at  the  MRHD.  In  view  of  the  current  guidelines  and  the  legal  basis,  and  in  particular  due  to  the 
evidence  of  a  non-clinical  and  clinical  teratogenic  effect,  the  evidence  of  a  known  direct 
pharmacologic  effect  leading  to  malformations,  and  the  availability  of  alternative  therapeutics  for 
PAH, a strict pregnancy contraindication has been included in the SPC. 
The effect of ambrisentan on pre- and post-natal development and maternal function was assessed in 
rats.  Administration  to  female  rats  from  late-pregnancy  through  lactation  caused  adverse  events  on 
maternal  behaviour,  reduced  pup  survival  and  impairment  of  the  reproductive  capability  of  the  F1 
(with  observation  of  small  testes  at  necropsy),  at  exposure  3-  fold  the  AUC  at  the  MRHD.  At 
150 mg/kg/day,  ambrisentan  caused  delayed  vaginal  opening  in  the  offspring.  These  findings  are 
reflected in the SPC. 
The male and female offspring of dams that received 150 mg/kg/day showed decreased fertility (fewer 
animals mated, fewer became pregnant). The NOAEL was 15 mg/kg/day. 
Toxicokinetics was not investigated in pups. 
15/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The extent of ambrisentan excretion in milk was not evaluated. 
Studies in which the offspring (juvenile animals) are dosed and/or further evaluated 
No  studies  in  juvenile  animals  have  been  performed,  which  is  acceptable,  since  ambrisentan  is  not 
recommended for use in children under the age of 18 years due to insufficient data. 
•  Local tolerance  
An assessment of ambrisentan local tolerance (oral, GI), based on the toxicological finding observed 
in  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  as  well  as  in  the  carcinogenicity  study  with  orally  administered 
ambrisentan  was  presented.  Of  special  interest  were  the  respiratory  tract  findings  and  whether  these 
findings, including rales, could be attributed to local intolerance or to other causes and their relation to 
humans and the course of the primary disease. 
The findings observed within the respiratory tract are believed to be related to inflammatory processes 
in  the  nasal  cavity,  consequence  of  the  anticipated  pharmacology  of  ambrisentan.  The  proposed 
mechanism  of  the  nasal  cavity  inflammation/degenerative  epithelial  changes  is  due  to  ambrisentan 
administration resulting in elevated levels of endogenous endothelin.  
In a study investigating the effects of a single dose of ambrisentan on the cardiovascular parameters of 
dogs, a dose related increase in the plasma level of endothelin was observed, with a 20-fold elevation 
evident at the highest dose of 100 mg/kg. It was concluded that a clinically relevant dose (i.e: up to 
10mg/subject/day)  of  ambrisentan  does  not  present  a  local  tolerance  concern  as  the  elevation  of 
endothelin-1 level observed in human is considered safe relating to that observed in dog. In addition, 
the  effects  observed  in  the  nasal  cavities  are  a  consequence  of  anticipated  pharmacology,  which  are 
exacerbated in obligate nose breathing species. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
The  immunogenicity  of  ambrisentan  and  its  metabolites  has  not  been  investigated,  despite  the 
formation  of  acyl  glucuronide  metabolites  has  been  associated  with  immunogenic  responses. 
Nevertheless, the acyl glucuronide of ambrisentan (M2) is unlikely to cause allergic reactions due to 
the lack of covalent binding to proteins observed in an in vitro study with dog plasma. 
Signs of antigenic stimulation have been observed in the toxicological studies, e.g. nasal inflammatory 
conditions, reddening of the sclera and watery and/or mucous ocular discharge. 
Immunotoxicity 
In unstimulated murine spleen cells, ambrisentan showed no mitogenic activity. In mitogen-stimulated 
murine  spleen  cells,  neither  suppressive  nor  co-mitogenic  effects  were  observed  over  the  complete 
concentration range tested. 
Decreased  white  blood  cell  counts  (WBC)  were  observed  at  a  dose  of  500 mg/kg/day  following 
26 weeks in the rat, and at 150 mg/kg/day following 13 weeks in the mouse. No histological changes 
were observed in bone marrow cellularity or morphology. 
Mesenteric nodes alterations compatible with chronic excessive antigenic exposure have been reported 
in the repeated-dose toxicity studies. Thymus atrophy was also seen in the repeat-dose toxicity studies 
in mice and in dogs. Although this effect could be due stress, an immunotoxic effect of ambrisentan 
could not be excluded, since the immunotoxic potential had not been thoroughly investigated. 
The  above  findings  raised  the  need  to  consider  further  immunotoxicity  studies,  including  those  to 
elucidate  the  potential  for  immune-mediated  hepatotoxicity  (as  recommended  in  the  Note  for 
Guidance  on  immunotoxicity  studies  for  human  pharmaceuticals  CHMP/167235/2004  (ICH  topic 
S8)). The effects on thymus, lymph nodes and WBC occurred only at doses that produced excessive 
toxicity or were lethal. Potential immunotoxic signals from the general toxicity studies were generally 
considered secondary to poor health status and stress, or secondary to lesions in other target organs, as 
opposed to direct drug effects. Additionally, there is no elevated cause for concern of immunotoxicity 
raised  by  the  Note  for  Guidance  document  namely:  1)  pharmacological  properties  of  ETA  receptor 
16/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
antagonists, 2) intended patient population (patients with life threatening PAH), 3) structural class, 4) 
disposition of the drug, or 5) signs from clinical trials. Therefore further immunotoxicity studies are 
not considered necessary. Studies to elucidate the potential for immune-mediated hepatoxicity are not 
considered  necessary  either,  as  ambrisentan  does  not  present  any  evidence  of  hepatotoxicity  (see 
Toxicology section).  
Dependence 
No  studies  were  done  to  assess  the  abuse  liability/dependence  of  ambrisentan.  However,  due  to  the 
characteristics and intended use of ambrisentan, dependence issues are not expected. 
Metabolites 
No  studies  have  been  done  to  specifically  assess  the  toxicity  of  ambrisentan  metabolites.  This  is 
acceptable. The data from the human mass balance study does not indicate any unique metabolites in 
humans  or  any  metabolites  that  were  seen  in  animals  at  exposures  less  than  that  in  humans  after 
ambrisentan administration. 
Studies on impurities 
No specific studies on impurities were conducted and they are not requested. All the batches used in 
preclinical and clinical studies contained only up to a 0.3% of the R-enantiomer, whereas the proposed 
quality  specifications  for  ambrisentan  claim  a  content  of  this  impurity  up  to  0.5%.  Additionally,  in 
vivo interconversion of the S- to the R-enantiomer up to 2.7% in males and 5.4% in females has been 
reported  in  dogs,  and  no  interconversion  has  been  observed  in  rodents.  Consequently,  the  safety 
pharmacology and toxicity preclinical studies conducted with ambrisentan support the qualification of 
the R-enantiomer impurity only up to 0.3 % in most cases. Up to 5% has been considered qualified in 
vivo as it was confirmed that the in vivo conversion of ambrisentan S-enantiomer to R-enantiomer in 
humans  is  very  low  and  does  not  exceed  the  threshold  of  5.4%  observed  in  dogs  (see  also  Safety 
Pharmacology section). 
An  assessment  of  the  route  of  synthesis  for  ambrisentan  has  identified  three  impurities  which  are 
known  or  suspected  to  be  DNA  reactive  genotoxins:  methyl  p-toluenesulphonate,  ethyl  p-
toluenesulphonate  and  glycidic  ester  3109A.  Investigations  have  been  confined  to  the  active 
ingredient, ambrisentan, and separate studies on impurities are not required. 
Other studies 
A  study  was  conducted  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  age  (relative  to  skeletal  growth)  and  ambrisentan 
treatment on the development of nasal cavity osseous hyperplasia in the rat [Report MPF/DT 3300]. 
The NOAEL was reported to be <100 mg/kg/day for both young and older rats. Osseous hyperplasia 
in rats appears to be independent of skeletal maturation. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The Predicted Environmental Concentrations of ambrisentan arising from use of ambrisentan tablets 5 
and  10  mg  for  the  treatment  of  PAH  will  be  below  the  nominal  trigger  value  of  0.01 µg/l  and  no 
further  evaluation  is  required.  Ambrisentan  is  not  considered  to  pose  any  adverse  environmental 
effects. 
2.4 Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical program of ambrisentan consists of 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 
3  studies  (AMB-320  and  AMB-321).  These  data  are  supported  by  two  open-label  phase  2  studies 
(AMB-220 and AMB-222). Long-term efficacy data for ambrisentan in PAH is being evaluated in 2 
open label studies, Study AMB-320/321-E and Study AMB-220-E. 
17/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  approved  indication  for  Volibris  is:  “the  treatment  of  patients  with  pulmonary  arterial 
hypertension (PAH) classified as WHO functional class II and III, to improve exercise capacity (see 
section  5.1).  Efficacy  has  been  shown  in  idiopathic  PAH  (IPAH)  and  in  PAH  associated  with 
connective tissue disease”.  
Volibris is to be taken orally at a dose of 5 mg once daily with or without food. Some additional 
efficacy has been observed with 10 mg Volibris in patients with class III symptoms, however an 
increase in peripheral oedema has also been observed. Patients with PAH associated with connective 
tissue disease may require 10 mg Volibris for optimal efficacy.  
Scientific  Advice  was  received  from  the  CHMP  on  15  December  2005.  The  Scientific  Advice 
pertained to quality and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
No clinical studies were conducted in paediatric subjects, as such ambrisentan is not recommended for 
use in patients below 18 years of age. A proportion of patients in the phase 3 studies were above 65 
years  of  age.  There  is  limited  experience  in  patients  with  renal  and  hepatic  impairment;  all  related 
limitations are reflected in the SPC. 
The following table shows a summary of the clinical studies with ambrisentan to support efficacy and 
safety. 
Study 
AMB-220 
AMB-220- 
E 
AMB-222 
AMB-320 
AMB-321 
AMB-
320/321-
E 
2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
Phase  Description 
2 
Efficacy and safety dose ranging 
study (PAH patients) 
Long term safety and efficacy 
(Extension of Study AMB-220) 
LFT safety study in those failed 
on other ERA therapy (PAH 
patients) 
Efficacy and safety study (PAH 
patients) 
Efficacy and safety study (PAH 
patients) 
Long-term Efficacy and Safety 
(Extension of Study AMB-320 
and Study AMB-321) 
Number 
exposed to 
ambrisentan 
64 
Doses of 
ambrisentan 
1, 2.5, 5, 10 mg 
Duration of 
treatment 
12 weeks 
54 
36 
134 
127 
383 
1, 2.5, 5, 10 mg 
Long term 
5 mg 
5, 10 mg 
12 weeks + 
long-term 
extension 
12 weeks 
2.5, 5 mg 
12 weeks 
2.5, 5, 10 mg 
Long term 
 LFT=Liver function test 
* Multiple single dose exposures 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
Seven  studies  were  performed  to  assess  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  ambrisentan  in  healthy 
volunteers. The programme consists of  a single ascending and multiple ascending dose studies (EE-
001 and EE-002, respectively), a mass balance study with radiolabelled ambrisentan (AMB-107), two 
drug-drug  interaction  studies  (AMB-105  with  sildenafil  and  AMB-106  with  warfarin)  and  a 
bioequivalence  (BE)  study  comparing  the  clinical  trial  and  commercial  tablets  (AMB-103).  The 
pharmacokinetics of ambrisentan in patients with PAH were also determined in AMB-220, AMB-222 
and in the extension phase AMB-320/320E.  
Pharmaceutical development: Ambrisentan has been developed as an immediate-release tablet dosage 
form (5 and 10 mg tablets) for oral administration. Three formulations have been used over the course 
18/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of  development  named  as  phase  1,  clinical,  and  commercial  formulations.  In  phase  1,  randomized, 
open-label BE study AMB-103, three doses of ambrisentan (2.5, 5 and 10 mg) were administered to 
65 healthy volunteers in a 3-arm cross-over design. The 2.5 and 5 mg commercial formulations and 
the 2.5 and 5 mg clinical formulations were bioequivalent. In the case of the 10 mg dose, two different 
lots of the commercial formulation with differences in the particle agglomeration of the drug substance 
were  tested.  Only  one  of  these  commercial  formulations  was  bioequivalent  with  the  clinical  tablets, 
being  the  other  formulation  outside  the  limits  for  Cmax  (ratio  commercial:  clinical  87.2%,  90%  CI 
79.3-95.9%). This lack of equivalence has been attributed to differences in the particle agglomeration 
of the drug substance batches. As a result of this different performance, the applicant has included a 
control of the amount of agglomerated particles as part of the drug product specifications. 
•  Absorption  
Ambrisentan is rapidly absorbed in humans following oral administration, with Cmax occurring around 
1.5 hours post dose under both fasted and fed conditions. Cmax and AUC increase dose proportionally 
over the therapeutic dose range in healthy volunteers. The single-dose geometric mean Cmax value at 
the proposed therapeutic dose of 5 mg once daily was 345 ng/mL (CV 21%) and the AUC(0-inf) was 
2137 ng.h/mL (CV 34.5%). After repeat once daily dosing to healthy subjects the Cmax value was 344 
ng/ml (CV 59.1%) and the AUC (0-24) 2500 ng.h/ml (CV 22.1%) for the 5 mg dose.  The terminal 
elimination half-life following repeat dosing ranges from 13.6 to 16.5 hours. Steady-state is generally 
achieved following 4 days of repeat dosing. 
•  Distribution 
In  vitro  studies  show  that  ambrisentan  is  highly  protein  bound  (98.8%)  in  the  plasma  over  a  wide 
concentration range of 0.2 to 20 ug/mL (MPF/DDK 9912). Ambrisentan is primarily bound to albumin 
(96.5%) and to a lesser extent to α1-acid glycoprotein. The distribution of ambrisentan into red blood 
cells is low.  
A  food-effect  was  observed  in  study  EE-001  involving  administration  of  ambrisentan  to  healthy 
volunteers under fasting conditions and with a high-fat meal. Cmax was decreased 12% while the AUC 
remained unchanged. This decrease in peak concentration was not considered clinically significant by 
the applicant, and therefore administration of ambrisentan in the phase 2 and 3 studies was performed 
with or without food. 
•  Elimination 
After  administration  of  the  radiolabeled  drug  in  AMB-107,  ambrisentan  was  the  predominant 
ambrisentan-related  species  circulating  in  plasma.  Ambrisentan  is  glucuronidated  via  several  UGT 
isoenzymes  to  form  ambrisentan  glucuronide  and  also  undergoes  oxidative  metabolism  mainly  by 
CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5 and CYP2C19 to form 4-hydroxymethyl ambrisentan. The 
latter is further glucuronidated to 4-hydroxymethyl ambrisentan glucuronide. Based on the results of 
AMB-107,  the  major  route  of  elimination  for  ambrisentan  and  its  metabolites  is  biliary  excretion  in 
faeces (65.4%), with urinary excretion (22.1%) representing a minor route. Approximately 40% of the 
administered  dose  was  excreted  as  unchanged  in  urine  (3.3%)  and  faeces  (36%).  Most  of  the 
remaining  excreted  dose  was  excreted  as  ambrisentan  glucuronide  (13%),  4-hydroxymethyl 
ambrisentan (21%), and 4-hydroxymethyl ambrisentan glucuronide (5%). 
An  additional  study  (ABS-108)  was  submitted  in  order  to  clarify  if  inter-conversion  had  been 
investigated  in  humans  and  its  possible  consequences  on  the  efficacy  of  ambrisentan.  One  of  the 
secondary  objectives  of  this  study  was  to  assess  the  in  vivo  conversion  of  (S)-ambrisentan  to  (R)-
ambrisentan  in  healthy  volunteers.  The  results  show  that  the  levels  of  (R)-ambrisentan  appear  to  be 
lower than 5% and about the same level as those found in female dogs (5.4%). The little conversion 
together  with  the  lower  affinity  of  this  (R)-enantiomer  compared  to  (S)-enantiomer  by  the  ETA 
receptors,  make  it  unlikely  that  this  enantiomer  contributes  to  the  efficacy  or  safety  profile  of 
ambrisentan. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
19/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data provided in AMB-103 and EE-001 show that AUC and Cmax increase proportionally across doses 
from  1  to  50  mg.  From  50  to  100  mg  higher  doses  are  proportional  when  considering  the  AUC 
parameter,  but  Cmax  increases  in  a  lesser  dose  proportional  manner.  Ambrisentan  pharmacokinetics 
appear to be time-independent and no sign of accumulation after repeat doses has been shown. 
Pharmacokinetic data in PAH patients show a 2- to 3-fold higher exposure. This increased exposure in 
PAH patients has also been observed for bosentan and has been attributed to a reduction in metabolic 
capacity of the liver as a consequence of PAH. The preliminary results of the population PK analysis 
also showed an oral clearance approximately 2-fold lower in PAH patients. Although the PK data in 
healthy volunteers seems to be lineal in the range from 1 to 50 mg, the data obtained in PAH patients 
do not permit to conclude dose proportionality in the therapeutic range. While the results obtained in 
34 patients in AMB-320/321-E indicate a lineal trend, the results from AMB-220 show a more than 
proportional increase in the AUC parameter in the therapeutic range from 5 to 10 mg.  
The  final  results  of  the  PK  population  analysis  show  that  ambrisentan  concentrations  following  oral 
administration  are  well  described  by  a  two-compartment  model  with  first-order  absorption  with  lag 
time and first order elimination. Ambrisentan oral clearance is 38% lower in PAH patients compared 
to  healthy  subjects,  probably  as  a  result  of  hepatic  congestion.  Creatinine  clearance,  bilirubin  and 
gender were identified as significant covariates on ambrisentan oral clearance, as was body weight on 
central volume. One unexpected covariate significantly affecting the Cl/F was the creatinine clearance 
since the urinary excretion of ambrisentan is low. In the worst case scenario (creatinine clearance of 
30 ml/min), the model predicts that exposure to ambrisentan in patients given 5 mg would be between 
the 5 and 10 mg exposure for a typical patient. A 28.3% and a 63% greater exposure could be found if 
a 10 mg dose is administered to patients with 50 mL/min and 30 mL/min, respectively. Taking into 
account  the  inter-individual  variation  in  exposure  of  approximately  32%,  no  dose  adjustment  is 
proposed in renal insufficiency (see section 4.2 SPC), however an advice for caution in patients with a 
CrCL<30 mL/min is included. Information relating to baseline renal function will be collected as part 
of  the  post  marketing  surveillance  programme  to  assess  the  safety  profile  in  the  renal  impaired 
population.  
 With regard to the gender, the differences found are lower than the inter-individual variability in CL/F 
and  the  increase  in  exposure  is  small.  Therefore  these  differences  are  not  likely  to  be  of  clinical 
relevance. 
•  Special populations 
Pharmacokinetics of ambrisentan has not been assessed in special populations.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Results of the in vitro studies performed show a low potential for ambrisentan to produce PK protein 
binding  interactions  and  to  inhibit  cytochrome  enzymes  CYP1A2,  CYP2B6,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4 and UGT1A1, UGT1A6, UGT1A9 and UGT2B7. It also seems that PK 
interactions with drugs whose clearance is dependent on some hepatic and efflux transport proteins are 
unlikely. In Caco-2 cells ambrisentan is a weak substrate for P-gp-mediated efflux and cyclosporine A 
inhibited  the  efflux  transport  of  ambrisentan  by  56%.  The  applicant  will  perform  a  DDI  study  to 
evaluate  the  potential  interaction  with  cyclosporine  as  a  post-authorisation  follow  up  measure. 
Information about this potential interaction is also included in Section 4.5 of the SPC.  
A DDI study with ambrisentan and digoxin (ABS-109) has been conducted and its conclusions about 
no  monitoring  digoxin  levels  when  ambrisentan  is  administered  concomitantly  are  endorsed  and 
reflected in the SPC.  
An in vitro study with 24 drugs used concomitantly with ambrisentan in phase 2 and 3 trials has shown 
no  effect  on  the  formation  of  ambrisentan  glucuronide,  suggesting  absence  of  an  in  vivo  effect  The 
results  with  nifedipine  show  a  greater  percentage  of  inhibition  (near  40%)  than  the  other  drugs, 
although the effect was not concentration dependent. The results of nifedipine inhibitory effects on the 
glucuronidation  of  ambrisentan  could  be  attributed  to  an  artefact  as  this  inhibition  was  not 
concentration-dependent.  Ketoconazole  is  an  inhibitor  of  some  UGT  enzymes,  being  among  them 
UGT2B7,  one  of  the  potentially  UGT  involved  in  the  metabolism  of  ambrisentan.  Results  of  a  DDI 
20/44 
 
 
 
 
 
study with ketoconazole (a more potent inhibitor of UGT-2B7 than nifedipine) have not shown effects 
on the PK of ambrisentan. In general the results with the rest drugs suggest an absence of an in vivo 
effect. 
Two interaction studies have been performed to assess the possible interactions between ambrisentan 
with  sildenafil  (AMB-105)  and  with  warfarin  (AMB-106),  which  can  potentially  be  coadministered 
with ambrisentan in PAH patients. Results of AMB-105 show that co-administration of ambrisentan 
with sildenafil does not affect the PK of both drugs. These results are consistent with data from EE-
002,  in  which  the  potential  for  ambrisentan  to  induce  CYP3A4  activity  in  healthy  volunteers  was 
explored.  
In AMB-106 changes in the PK profile of both products were not observed. A decrease of 15% in the 
maximum PT and INR values following co-administration of ambrisentan and warfarin was observed, 
although the 95% CIs were within the predefined equivalence criteria of 80-125%. Ambrisentan and 
warfarin  have  been  concomitantly  administered  in  studies  ARIES  C  and  AMB  220E  and  clinically 
relevant changes in INR and PT when compared with the baseline were not observed. Warfarin had no 
clinically  significant  effects  on  the  PK  of  ambrisentan,  therefore warfarin  dose  correction  after  starting 
coadministration with ambrisentan is not required Data with other anticoagulant agents that potentially 
could be administered with ambrisentan (acenocumarol, phenprocumon) was not provided. However, 
as  the  metabolic  pathway  for  acenocumarol  and  phenprocumon  involves  also  CYP2C9,  it  is  not 
expected  that  the  clearance  of  these  drugs  are  affected  by  ambrisentan.  With  regard  to  fluindione, 
although  its  metabolic  pathway  has  not  been  determined,  some  authors  have  hypothesized  that 
CYP2C9 is also involved, not expecting a different performance. 
From  the  data  submitted  it  can  be  concluded  that  ambrisentan  has  a  lower  potential  to  produce 
interactions  than  the  other  members  of  the  ERA  class.  As  ambrisentan  is  metabolized  in  the  liver 
mainly by CYP3A, a DDI study with ketoconazole was performed to assess the effect on the PK of 
ambrisentan produced by drugs that are know to inhibit or induce this cytocrome. The results indicate 
that the exposure of ambrisentan is increased in a 35% when co-administered with ketoconazole, but 
this increase is of the same order magnitude as the CV of inter-variability in exposure. A DDI study 
with  rifampicin  to  further  assess  the  effect  of  an  inducer  on  the  exposure  of  ambrisentan  will  be 
performed as a post-authorisation follow-up measure. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
The  mechanism  of  action  of  ambrisentan  as  an  antagonist  for  the  ET  receptors  is  similar  to  that 
described for the two ERAs available, bosentan and sitaxentan. A 4000 fold selectivity of ambrisentan 
for the ETA receptor subtype over the ETB subtype is estimated by the applicant. While bosentan is a 
dual receptor antagonist exerting its action on both ETA and ETB with a slightly higher affinity for ETA 
receptors;  sitaxentan  is  a  single  receptor  antagonist.  Its  selectivity  is  described  to  be  approximately 
6,500-fold higher for ETA receptors than for ETB receptors. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Endothelin-1  plasma  levels  have  been  measured  in  healthy  volunteers  and  in  PAH  patients. 
Endothelin-1  increased  in  a  dose-dependent  manner  up  to  doses  of  50  mg  in  healthy  volunteers.  In 
PAH patients the change from baseline in ET-1 concentrations was statistically significant for patients 
who received 5 and 10 mg of ambrisentan. However, the effect does not seem to be dose-dependent as 
the increase was higher in the 5 mg dose (83% vs 48% in 5 and 10 mg, respectively). In spite of this 
increase, there is no evidence of rebound symptoms following discontinuation; this is reflected in the 
SPC. The rebound effect, however, when ambrisentan is discontinued has not been studied. 
Plasma  B-type  natriuretic  peptide  (BNP),  an  amino-acid  polypeptide  secreted  primarily  from  the 
cardiac ventricles, has been shown to be increased in PAH patients and proposed by some authors to 
be  a  prognostic  factor  in  patients  with  IPAH.  A  statistically  significant  reduction  of  this  peptide  in 
plasma  has  been  shown  in  a  subset  of  PAH  patients  treated  with  ambrisentan  in  studies  AMB-220, 
AMB-320 and AMB-321. The effect appeared greater for patients who received the 10 mg dose. 
21/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding  the  effect  on  blood  pressure  and  heart  rate  no  consistent  effect  was  observed  in  healthy 
volunteers. Although no increases in heart rate were observed in AMB-105 and EE-001, a moderate 
increase was observed in EE-002 and AMB-104. In AMB-104, there was no evidence of a treatment-
related  effect  on  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressures  and  a  modest  dose  related  increase  was 
observed in heart rate.  
Decreases  in  PAP  and  PVR  were  observed  in  a  subset  of  PAH  patients  in  AMB-220.  The  mean 
cardiac index was also increased. These haemodynamic effects have also been shown with bosentan 
and sitaxentan, and support the therapeutic effect of ambrisentan. 
A PK/PD analysis was performed with the results of clinical studies AMB-220, AMB-222, and AMB-
320/321-E. Based on the results of the population PK analysis a strong correlation between exposure 
and clinical outcomes has not been observed 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response studies 
Pharmacokinetic information from non-clinical studies was used to establish a dosing regimen for the 
Phase 1 clinical studies.  
Early clinical studies demonstrated that daily doses of ambrisentan up to 10 mg were well tolerated on 
repeat dosing, that ambrisentan has a PK profile consistent with once daily dosing, and that doses in 
the range 1-10 mg have PD activity.  
The clinical efficacy of ambrisentan in the dose range 1-10 mg over 12 weeks in subjects with PAH 
was  evaluated  in  phase  2  dose  ranging  study  AMB-220.  The  primary  endpoint  was  the  change  in 
6MWD supported by other clinically relevant assessments- the Borg dyspnoea index, WHO functional 
class,  time  to  clinical  worsening,  and  PD  measures  (haemodynamics,  plasma  endothelin).  A  dose 
response was not observed for the primary endpoint. However, the study was not powered to examine 
pair-wise comparisons between individual dose groups and was only 80% powered to detect a linear 
dose-response relationship between the 4 dose groups. This was the first study in subjects with PAH, 
and as such a dose-titration scheme was used to gradually increase to the higher ambrisentan doses (5 
and 10 mg). This up-titration schedule resulted in a 12-week exposure for the 1 and 2.5 mg doses, a 
10-week  exposure  for  the  5  mg  dose,  and  an  8-week  exposure  for  the  10  mg  dose.  Although  the 
numbers  are  small,  there  is  some  evidence  of  a  dose  response  for  haemodynamic  parameters, 
especially  for  the  10  mg  dose  group.  The  phase  2  data  provide  evidence  that  ambrisentan  over  the 
range  1-10  mg  daily  has  the  potential  to  offer  significant  clinical  benefits  in  patients  with  PAH  and 
more limited evidence that higher doses are associated with greater benefit than the lowest ones. Three 
doses, 2.5 mg, 5 mg and 10 mg were taken forward for evaluation in phase 3 clinical trials.  
•  Main studies  
Pivotal studies AMB-320 and AMB-321 had identical design: randomized, double-blind and placebo-
controlled to assess the efficacy and safety of two ambrisentan dose levels QD in patients with PAH. 
No  control  arm  with  an  active  product  was  included.  Comparisons  versus  placebo  are  considered 
acceptable bearing in mind the methodological difficulties in performing a non-inferiority trial in this 
specific population; however, it would have been desirable to have included an active control arm for 
descriptive  purposes,  especially  considering  that  there  are  other  orally  administered  medicinal 
products available. 
Data from these studies were integrated and the results of the combined analyses were presented in an 
additional study report (AMB-320/321).  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Patients  with  IPAH,  PAH  associated  with  connective  tissue  disease  (e.g.,  mixed  CTD,  CREST 
syndrome,  systemic  sclerosis  [scleroderma],  overlap  syndrome,  or  systemic  lupus  erythematosus), 
anorexigen use, or HIV infection were included in these trials. Subjects who had a serum ALT or AST 
22/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lab value >1.5xULN at the Screening Visit were excluded. The administration of other ERAs, PDE-5 
inhibitors used for the treatment of PAH and prostacyclin (or prostacyclin derivatives) was forbidden. 
Subjects  were  required  to  have  a  mean  PAP  >25  mmHg,  PVR  >3  mmHg/L/min,  and  PCWP  or  left 
ventricle  end  diastolic  pressure  (LVEDP)  of  <15  mmHg,  which  are  consistent  with  the  accepted 
definition  of  pulmonary  hypertension.  Baseline  cardiopulmonary  haemodynamic  parameters  were 
documented  prior  to  the  initiation  of  study  procedures,  including  mPAP,  cardiac  index,  PVR,  right 
atrial  pressure  (RAP),  and  pulmonary  capillary  wedge  pressure  (PCWP)/left  ventricle  end  diastolic 
pressure (LVEDP). 
Two  screening  6MWT  distance  (at  least  150  m  but  no  more  than  450  m)  were  needed  prior  to 
randomisation, and the criteria for stability of screening was not to vary by more than 15%.  
The  co-medication  in  the  clinical  development  program  was  not  standardized,  and  the  studies  were 
conducted in different regions.  
Treatments 
o  Study AMB-320: placebo, 5, or 10 mg of ambrisentan, 
o  Study AMB-321: placebo, 2.5, or 5 mg of ambrisentan. 
Study drug was administered once daily in the morning with or without food for 12 weeks (after the 2-
week screening period). 
One  blinded  dose  reduction  was  permitted  during  the  treatment  period  in  the  event  of  study  drug 
intolerance (e.g., 10 to 5 mg, 5 to 2.5 mg, 2.5 to 1 mg, placebo to placebo). Subjects received a daily 
dose of 2.5 mg or 1 mg only if they had been dose reduced from the lowest dose group. 
Following  12  weeks  of  treatment,  subjects  had  the  option  of  continuing  (or  starting  if  on  placebo) 
ambrisentan treatment in the long-term extension study. 
Objectives 
Primary Study Objective: To determine the effect of ambrisentan on exercise capacity in subjects with 
PAH. 
Secondary Study Objectives: To evaluate the effects of ambrisentan on other clinical measures of 
PAH, as well as the safety and tolerability of the study drug. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  change  from  baseline  (defined  as  the  mean  6MWD  of  the  last  two 
6MWTs  prior  to  randomization)  in  6MWD  evaluated  after  12  weeks  of  treatment  compared  to 
placebo. The 6MWT 
 is considered a valid main endpoint in evaluating efficacy in PAH trials. It is 
easy to perform, safe and reproducible, correlates with several cardiopulmonary exercise testing and 
provides important prognosis information. In addition, this test allows comparisons with results from 
previous trials. The treatment period of 12 weeks is considered long enough to provide efficacy results 
of  clinical  relevance.  This  period,  however,  is  not  long  enough  to  evaluate  long-term  effect  of 
ambrisentan or improvement on survival. 
The  main  secondary  endpoints  were  Time  to  Clinical  Worsening  (TCW);  change  from  baseline  in 
WHO functional class, in physical functioning scale (SF-36 Health Survey completed by the subject) 
and in the Borg Dyspnoea Index (BDI)  measured  after 12 weeks of treatment compared to placebo. 
Other efficacy variables were changes in the concentration ET-1, cardiac troponin T [cTnT], and B-
type  natriuretic  peptide  [BNP].  These  selected  secondary  endpoints  are  acceptable.  Haemodynamic 
parameters that are considered related to the prognosis of the disease (especially RAP, PAP, cardiac 
output and central venous O2 saturation) were not considered as secondary endpoints in these trials. 
This was considered acceptable as the correlations between the haemodynamic parameters and clinical 
state,  functional  class,  exercise  capacity  and  prognosis  appear  weak,  and  it  is  currently  not  clear 
enough if haemodynamic studies have to be part of the development program.  
Sample size 
23/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A test of the null hypothesis of no treatment group difference in change from baseline in the 6MWD 
with  62  subjects  per  group  had  approximately  90%  power  to  detect  an  average  placebo-adjusted 
treatment effect of 35 m based on a 2-sample t-test and a standard deviation of 55m.  
Randomisation 
Randomization was performed with the use of an Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) via the 
telephone. Randomization occurred no more than 2 weeks after the Screening Visit. 
Subjects were stratified based on the underlying aetiology of PAH (IPAH, non-IPAH) and randomized 
to 1 of three treatment groups in a ratio of 1:1:1.  
Blinding (masking) 
Study  drug  was  provided  in  the  form  of  round,  biconvex  oral  tablets.  Active  treatment  was 
indistinguishable  from  placebo.  Subjects,  the  principal  investigator  and  staff,  as  well  as  the  sponsor 
and  specified  designees  were  blinded  to  the  dose  of  study  drug  throughout  the  12-week  treatment 
period.  
Statistical methods 
Efficacy and safety analyses were performed on 2 different populations: 
The intention-to-treat (ITT) population was defined as all randomized subjects who received at least 1 
dose  of  study  drug.  Subjects  were  considered  as  belonging  to  their  randomized  treatment  group, 
regardless of the actual treatment received. 
The  safety  population  was  defined  as  all  randomized  subjects  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  study 
drug.  Subjects  were  considered  as  belonging  to  treatment  group  according  to  the  highest  actual 
treatment received.  
A  missing  Week  12  value  in  6MWD  was  imputed  using  last  observation  carried  forward  (LOCF), 
unless  the  subject  withdrew  prematurely  due  to  clinical  worsening  of  PAH  without  a  premature 
withdrawal assessment. In the later case, the imputations will be 0 for 6MWD, 10 for Borg dyspnoea 
index, IV for WHO class.  
Descriptive statistics are presented for change and percentage change from baseline in LOCF 6MWD 
by treatment group for Weeks 4, 8, and 12. A 95% confidence interval (CI) for mean change and mean 
percentage change from baseline are also provided.  
Change  from  baseline  for  Weeks  4,  8,  and  12  in  each  of  the  2  ambrisentan  treatment  groups  were 
compared  to  placebo.  The  mean  change  was  reported  with  2-sided  95%  CIs  calculated  by  normal 
theory. The primary comparison was the change from baseline at Week 12. The Wilcoxon rank sum 
test stratified by IPAH and non-IPAH subjects was used for inference. A fixed sequence approach was 
used  to  control  the  type  I  error  rate  accounting  for  the  2  comparisons.  The  higher  dose  was  first 
compared to placebo. Because the p-value from the Wilcoxon rank sum test was less than 0.05 for the 
higher dose (10 mg dose group for AMB-320 and 5 mg dose group for AMB-321), the difference was 
considered significant, and the lower dose was compared to placebo, again at the full 0.05 α-level. 
The two ambrisentan dose groups were also combined and compared to the placebo group. A p-value 
was reported, but for descriptive purposes only, with no impact on the fixed sequence procedure used 
for comparing the 2 individual doses to placebo. The primary variable analysis described above was 
repeated  for  observed  data  (non-LOCF)  to  explore  the  robustness  of  the  results  with  respect  to  the 
problem of missing data, again with no impact on the fixed sequence procedure. 
For the LOCF data only, consistency of the treatment effect was explored for subgroups of subjects.  
Combined Analysis (AMB320-321): The analyses described in the data analysis plan (DAP) were not 
planned in the protocols. However, this DAP was finalized and approved by the sponsor prior to the 
planned  database  lock  date  of  approximately  November  30,  2005  for  AMB-321  and  May  2006  for 
AMB-320.  Thus,  all  are  ad  hoc  and  may  be  considered  to  be  additions  to  those  mentioned  in  the 
protocols.  This  analysis  mirrors  the  analyses  for  the  individual  studies.  All  doses  and  all  significant 
24/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
doses from this analysis (if more than one dose is significant) were combined into one analysis for the 
purpose of estimating the treatment effect with a two-sided 95% confidence interval. 
The statistical analysis plan can be regarded as globally acceptable for all the studies. The applicant 
provided  an  additional  analysis  of  the  change  from  baseline  in  6MWD  using  a  non-parametric 
(Hodges-Lehmann) approach.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The following table shows the randomised subject disposition of the phase 3 pivotal trials. A total of 
484 patients were screened, of which 90 were screen failures.  
Recruitment 
The periods of recruitment for the phase 3 pivotal trials were the following:  
o  AMB-320 December 2003 to February 2006 
o  AMB-321 December 2003 to October 2005 
Conduct of the study 
Two  global  amendments  to  the  original  protocol  were  implemented  throughout  the  course  of  the 
studies. The changes were identical for both studies. 
Protocol deviations were summarized in the following categories:  
1) procedures not performed  
2) visit window deviations  
3) study drug compliance deviations  
4) inclusion/exclusion criteria deviations  
Most deviations were categorized as a “procedure not performed”. Overall, 13 subjects missed at least 
one 6MWDT and in most cases a justification was provided for not performing the test. As a LOCF 
and a non-LOCF analysis were performed for the evaluation of efficacy, missing data did not modify 
the  efficacy  results  substantially.  Inclusion  or  exclusion  criteria  protocol  deviations  were  mainly 
related  to  haemodynamic  assessments  and  were  either  missing  tests  or  test  results  just  outside  the 
protocol specified parameters. The outcomes were not impacted by these deviations. 
25/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
A total of 393 subjects received at least 1 dose of study drug and were included in the ITT populations 
and  safety  populations.  Overall,  baseline  characteristics  were  comparable  between  treatment  groups 
within  each  study.  The  majority  of  patients  randomised  were  female  (around  80%)  and  Caucasian 
(around 70%) with a mean age of around 50 yrs. Study AMB-321 was not open to enrolment in the US 
or Australia; therefore, no subjects in the 2.5 mg group were from these regions. Similarly, only a few 
centres from Eastern and Western Europe participated in AMB-320.  
IPAH  and  PAH  associated  with  CTD,  were  the  two  most  frequent  aetiologies.  The  main  baseline 
functional class was class III followed by class II. Very few patients with functional classes IV and I 
were included in these trials.  
The baseline 6MWD ranged from 150 to 449 metres, with a mean of 341 ± 75.8m for AMB-320 and 
348.4  ±  84.46m  for  AMB-321.  For  AMB-320  the  median  of  the  baseline  walking  distance  for 
functional  classes  II  and  III  were  380m  (min  160,  max  449)  and  354m  (min  192,  max  442) 
respectively.  For  AMB-321  the  median  for  functional  classes  II  and  III  were  398m  (min  190,  max 
449) and 350m (min 150, max 445) respectively. 
The applicant requested the use of ambrisentan in patients with functional class II, a group of patients 
for  whom  no  medicinal  product  has  been  authorised  so  far.  Patients  with  PAH  are  classified  in 
functional classes according to clinical parameters. An overlap between functional classes is expected 
as  the  diagnosis  is  only  based  on  symptomatic  considerations.  It  is  also  well-known  that  6MWD 
correlates  with  functional  class.  This  correlation  has  been  systematically  scrutinised  in  all  clinical 
trials  submitted  for  the  evaluation  of  other  products  previously  authorised,  in  an  attempt  to  clarify 
whether those patients classified as functional class II were representative of such a class. 
The French National Registry of PAH, recently published (Humbert et al. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 
2006;  173:1023–1030),  included  a  substantial  number  of  patients  (n=674)  with  PAH  diagnosed 
according to clinical criteria. In this study, a correlation between  6MWD and functional class II, III 
and  IV  was  observed,  being  415  (±86),  319  (±92)  and  192  (±96)  meters  the  baseline  mean  distance 
walked,  respectively.  These  distances  are  similar  (though  lower  for  class  II)  to  those  previously 
described  in  the  paper  by  Miyamoto  (Am  J  Resp  Crit  Care  Mad  2000;  161:  487-92)  (n=43)  where 
patients with functional class II and III reported a baseline  mean walking distance of approximately 
450 and 310m respectively. 
The  baseline  6MWD  reported  for  AMB-320  and  AMB-321  raised  doubts  with  respect  to  the 
representativeness  of  the  included  patients  for  the  whole  range  of  patients  with  functional  class  II 
(particularly  the  less  severe  ones).  At  the  time  when  other  medicinal  products  previously authorised 
for PAH were evaluated, concerns were raised not only in relation to the representativeness of patients 
included  in  class  II  but  also  to  the  magnitude  of  the  effect  achieved,  that  was  very  limited  and  not 
statistically significant. As a result, only functional class III was considered for the indication of these 
medicinal  products.  In  the  ambrisentan  dossier,  the  applicant  stated  that  nearly  half  of  the  patients 
(47%) with functional class II had a 6MWD>400m compared with 26.9% of patients with functional 
class III (when both clinical trials are combined). This data suggests that a substantial number of less 
severe patients (class II) could have been included in both clinical trials. Therefore, the applicant was 
requested  to  further  characterise  these  patients,  according  to  the  clinical  and  functional  criteria 
currently used in clinical practice. The applicant provided data on 6MWD at baseline that indicates a 
good correlation between functional class and the expected mean 6MWD at baseline (according to the 
walking  distance  reported  in  the  French  register);  data  which  supports  the  adequate  classification  of 
patients  in  functional  classes  in  the  pivotal  trials.  In  addition,  the  applicant  further  characterised  the 
patients from a clinical point of view. Haemodynamic parameters and Borg dyspnoea index at baseline 
show significant differences between the patients classified as functional class II and III. In addition, a 
lower consumption of concomitant medicines for patients classified as functional class II was reported. 
All this data suggests that the patients classified as class II are, at least, different from those classified 
as class III and, additionally, less severe from the clinical point of view.  
26/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
Concomitant  medication  was  similar  between  the  different  subgroups.  It  should  be  noted,  however, 
that  a  high  percentage  of  patients  took  calcium  channel  blockers  (CCB)  (AMB-320:  placebo  39%, 
5mg  ambrisentan  24%,  10mg  ambrisentan  31%;  AMB-321:  placebo  57%,  2.5mg  ambrisentan  50%, 
5mg  ambrisentan  46%).  These  percentages,  that  were  maintained  during  the  duration  of  the  studies, 
were higher than expected as no more than 20% of patients with PAH are usually responders to CCB 
(after  the  acute  vasoreactivity  test).  Furthermore,  they  are  not  consistent  with  the  percentage  of 
vasoreactivity reported for each study (14.4% for AMB-320 and 23.4% for AMB-321). In both studies 
the  use  of  CCB  was  higher  than  the  rate  of  known  vasoreactivity.  Data,  however,  shows  that  the 
improvement  in  6MWD  associated  with  ambrisentan  treatment  was  similar  whether  patients  took 
CCBs or not. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary Endpoint:  
The  primary  ITT  analysis  showed  a  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  mean  placebo-
corrected ambrisentan treatment effect on the 6MWD of 31m-59 meters in all active treatment groups.  
A  dose-response  relationship  for  the  change  in  6MWD  was  observed  for  each  of  the  placebo-
controlled studies, although the effect on the 6MWD for the 5mg ambrisentan dose group in AMB-321 
is double than the one shown in AMB-320. The applicant discussed all items  that could explain the 
differences observed between clinical trials, such as factors related with the population characteristics, 
clinical practice, etc, however, no reasons for the different effect observed have been identified. 
Secondary endpoints  
Following  the  Statistical  Plan  the  evaluation  of  the  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  was  performed  by 
combining the subjects from the 2 ambrisentan dose groups (3 in the case of the combined analysis 
study)  compared  to  placebo,  as  each  ambrisentan  treatment  group  demonstrated  a  statistically 
significant improvement compared to placebo in the primary endpoint analysis in all studies. 
In AMB-320 none of the two key secondary endpoints, TCW and change in WHO functional class, 
were  significant  versus  placebo.  When  the  weighted  Hommel  Test  (assign  80%=T  CW  and 
20%=WHO  class)  was  taken  into  consideration,  TCW  and  WHO  functional  class  did  not  reach 
signification  either.  Thus,  statistical  testing  was  not  considered  on  the  remaining  secondary  efficacy 
variables.  However, the analysis for AMB-321 showed that TCW was statistically significant, though 
not WHO, and the rest of secondary variables were considered for the analysis. Statistical testing was 
also significant for SF-36 and BDI.  
The  applicant  provided,  as  part  of  the  secondary  endpoint  “Clinical  worsening”  the  deaths  and 
hospitalization for PAH for both studies; very important parameters from the clinical point of view. A 
lower  absolute  number  of  deaths  for  both  doses  were  reported  in  both  trials.  With  respect  to 
hospitalization  for  PAH  a  clear  downward  trend  was  observed  in  AMB-321  for  both  doses  (pla: 
13.8%, 2,5mg 4,7% and 5 mg 3.2%). 
Results of other descriptive variables showed that the change from baseline was greater than placebo 
at Week 12 for the geometric mean percent change in plasma ET-1 for the 5 mg group, but not for the 
2.5 mg group; while the decrease from baseline was greater than placebo for the 2.5 mg group and the 
5  mg  group  when  assessing  the  geometric  mean  plasma  BNP.  The  changes  in  cTnT  concentrations 
during the 12-week study were minor and not remarkably different from zero. 
The  following  table  shows  the  efficacy  results  on  primary  and  secondary  endpoints  of  the  pivotal 
studies and the combined analyses (AMB-320/321). 
27/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study No. 
Treatment 
Arm 
No. 
Enrolled1/ 
Completed  Primary Endpoint2 
Secondary Endpoints2 
PHASE 3 PLACEBO-CONTROLLED STUDIES 
WHO class 
6MWD, m 
Borg Dyspnoea 
Index 
Time to 
ClinWorsening
KM pvalue 
HR 
pl-adj 
∆baseline 
mean, 
pvalue 
%Imp %Det
pvalue3 
∆baseline 
m (SD) 
NA 
NA 
20.5%, 17.4%
∆baseline
mean 
(SD) 
-9.0 
(86.22) 
placebo 
132/111 
Integrated 
AMB-320 
and  
AMB-321 
2.5 mg 
64/58 
+22.2 
(82.67) 
+31.2 
p = 0.022
p = 0.030 
72% 
5 mg 
130/121 
+35.7 
(80.18) 
+44.6 
p <0.001
p = 0.005 
71% 
10 mg 
67/63 
+43.6 
(65.91) 
+52.5 
p <0.001
p = 0.028 
72% 
combined 
ambrisentan 
261/242 
+34.4 
(77.51) 
+43.3 
p <0.001
p <0.001 
71% 
15.6% 4.7% 
p = 0.206 
21.5% 2.3% 
p = 0.027 
29.9% 4.5% 
p = 0.096 
22.2% 3.4% 
p =0.011 
placebo 
67/57 
-7.8 
(78.88) 
NA 
NA 
23.9% 16.4%
5 mg 
67/63 
AMB-320 
10 mg 
67/63 
+22.8 
(82.98) 
+30.6 
p = 0.008
+43.6 
(65.91) 
+51.4 
p <0.001
p = 0.307 
50% 
p = 0.292 
50% 
combined 
ambrisentan 
134/126 
+33.2 
(75.37) 
+41.0 
p  <0.001
p = 0.214 
49% 
28.4% 1.5% 
p = 0.073 
29.9% 4.5% 
p = 0.096 
29.1 % 3.0% 
p = 0.043 
placebo 
65/54 
-10.1 
(93.79) 
NA 
NA 
16.9% 18.5%
2.5 mg 
64/58 
+22.2 
(82.67) 
+32.3 
p = 0.022
p = 0.005 
80% 
AMB-321 
5 mg 
63/58 
+49.4 
(75.36) 
p = 0.008 
79% 
15.6% 4.7% 
p = 0.206 
14.3% 3.2% 
SF-36® 
physical 
functioning 
scale 
1.07 ±7.64
pl-adj 
∆baseline 
m, 
pvalue 
NA 
-0.6 
p = 0.046 
3.86 ± 7.14
p = 0.023 
-0.7 
p = 0.031 
3.34 ± 8.30
p = 0.033 
-1.3 
p =0.002 
4.52 ± 7.16
p = 0.004 
-0.9 
p <0.001 
3.77 ± 7.73
p = 0.003 
NA 
2.31 ± 7.65
-0.3 
p = 0.316 
3.86 ± 7.14
p = 0.543 
-0.9 
p = 0.002 
4.52 ± 7.16
p = 0.111 
0.4 
(2.46) 
-0.2 
(2.17) 
-0.3 
(1.96) 
-0.9 
(1.93) 
-0.5 
(2.01) 
0.0 
(2.22) 
-0.3 
(1.93) 
-0.9 
(1.93) 
-0.6 
(1.95) 
-0.6 
p = 0.017 
4.10 ± 8.39
p = 0.229 
0.8 
(2.63) 
-0.2 
(2.17) 
NA 
-0.20 ± 
7.14 
-1.0 
p = 0.046 
3.86 ± 7.14
p = 0.005 
-0.4 
(1.99) 
-1.2 
p = 0.040 
2.96 ± 6.81
p = 0.040 
+59.4 
p = 
<0.001 
+45.8 
p <0.001
127/116 
combined 
ambrisentan 
p = 0.187 
15.0% 3.9% 
+35.7 
(79.99) 
p = 0.120 
1.  Number of subjects enrolled/randomized in the study and also included in the ITT population 
2.  Refers to the phase 3, placebo-controlled studies 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6MWD = 6-minute walk distance, ∆baseline = change from baseline, m = meters, SD = standard deviation, pl-adj = placebo adjusted; KM = 
Kaplan Meyer, HR = hazard ratio, imp = improved, det = deteriorated, BDI= borg dyspnoea index, SGA=subject global assessment 
p-value determined from 7-point scale 
Study is ongoing; 36 subjects were enrolled, 2 discontinued prematurely and 34 subjects were still continuing the study as of 01 June 2006 
SGA used in Study AMB-220 and SF-36 physical functioning scale used in Study AMB-222 
-1.1 
p = 0.019 
p <0.001 
80% 
3.41 ± 6.96
p = 0.005 
-0.3 
(2.08) 
Ancillary analyses 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The  applicant  provided  subgroup  analyses  for  6MWD  on  gender,  PAH  aetiology,  WHO  functional 
class,  region,  supplemental  oxygen  use,  CCB  use  and  vasoreactivity.  The  subgroup  analyses  and 
associated p-values are presented descriptively. 
With respect to the functional classes, data shows a statistically significant change in 6MWD versus 
placebo in AMB-320. The effect was clinically relevant for 10 mg in functional class II (43.4m) and 
for  both  doses  (2.5  and  5mg)  in  functional  class  III  (34m  and  57m  respectively).  In  AMB-321  the 
28/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effect was statistically and clinically relevant for 5 mg in functional class II (68.6m) and clinically and 
statistically relevant for the dose of 5 mg in functional class III (53.5m). 
The applicant provided additional data showing the percentage of change from baseline in 6MWD by 
baseline  6MWD  (<400m  and  >400m)  in  order  to  provide  more  information  in  less  severe  patients 
(predominantly class II). This cut-off point was chosen taking into consideration the baseline 6MWD 
of  patients  published  in  the  French  registry.  Results  from  this  combined  analysis  suggest  that  less 
severe patients are as likely to improve as those with functional class III. With the aim of having more 
data on the effect of ambrisentan on less severe patients, the applicant presented data on the change 
from baseline (and placebo-corrected) in 6MWD by baseline 6MWD with several cut-off points (e.g., 
>400m  and  <400  m,  and  >415m  and  <415m).  An  ANCOVA  analysis  adjusted  by  baseline  walk 
distance  for  each  functional  class  was  also  presented.  Overall,  results  for  the  5  mg  dose  are  similar 
regardless of the 6MWD cut analysed. 
The analysis by PAH aetiology showed a statistically and clinically significant change in 6MWD for 
IPAH for all doses in both studies. For non-IPAH, which mainly includes CTD-associated PAH, only 
the  10mg  dose  in  AMB-320  had  a  statistically  and  clinically  significant  change.  In  AMB-321  the 
change was not significant for any of the doses, probably due to the small population size. A beneficial 
effect  was  also  observed  for  secondary  variables  (proportion  of  deteriorated  and  BDI).  Given  these 
results, the efficacy of ambrisentan in CTD-associated PAH was considered questionable and further 
discussion  was  requested.  Baseline  characteristics  of  non-IPAH  patients  for  the  5  and  10mg  doses 
were reviewed to see if the lack of significance for the 5mg dose could be linked to these. The analysis 
did  not  reveal  any  substantial  differences  likely  to  provide  an  explanation.  Patients  with  PAH-CTD 
have  a  consistently  smaller  response  to  other  ERAs  compared  to  patients  with  IPAH.  The  greater 
efficacy  associated  with  the  10  mg  dose  in  patients  with  PAH-CTD  was  considered  therefore  to 
possibly be a result of a dose-response effect in this patient group. 
Data from the phase 3 studies identified that the 10mg dose brings higher benefit to patients with class 
III  symptoms  and  patients  with  PAH-CTD  in  comparison  with  5  mg  dose;  as  such,  this  has  been 
reflected in the posology section of the SPC.  
The results in 6MWTD by subgroups for the combined analysis AMB-320/AMB-321 support the ones 
for the individual studies: an effect is shown in females, Caucasians, IPAH, functional classes II and 
III. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No clinical studies were conducted in paediatric subjects, as such ambrisentan is not recommended for 
use in patients below 18 years of age. 
In phase 3 studies the proportion of patients >65 years was 21.5% and > 75 years 4.8%. Based on the 
results  of  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  in  healthy  volunteers  and  patients  with  PAH,  the 
pharmacokinetics  was  not  significantly  influenced  by  age,  and  no  dose  adjustment  is  required  in 
patients over the age of 65. 
Based  on  the  results  of  the  PPK  analysis,  No  dose  adjustment  is  required  in  patients  with  renal 
impairment,  however  due  to  limited  experience  an  advice  for  caution  if  therapy  with  ambrisentan  is 
initiated in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) is included in the 
SPC. 
As  stated  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  section,  inclusion  criteria  were  very  restrictive  for  hepatic 
function. A contraindication in patients with severe hepatic impairment has been included in the SPC 
since in this patient population an increase in the exposure would be expected with a potential impact 
on safety. Sections 4.2 and 4.4 also reflect concerns relative to this population. 
•  Supportive study 
AMB-320/321-E (Extension study) 
29/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  ongoing  extension  study  was  designed  to  continue  the  safety  and  efficacy  assessments  of 
ambrisentan  in  PAH  patients  who  completed  treatment  in  AMB-320  or  AMB-321.  A  preliminary 
analysis has been performed using study data collected through 16 February 2006. 
Data on efficacy, as reassuring as the results for the functional and clinical variables, suggest that the 
effect on 6MWD and other secondary variables is maintained. However, given the lack of a control 
arm, the data should be considered with caution. 
Overall, the safety profile was similar to that observed in the AMB-320 and AMB-321.  Twenty one 
subjects died during the studies or within 30 days of receiving the last dose of study drug. Nearly all 
deaths (n = 20) were considered unrelated to study drug. Nearly all these subjects had WHO class III 
or WHO class IV symptoms prior to initiating ambrisentan treatment. This finding can be considered 
consistent with the natural history of the disease. 
The applicant provided an analysis on survival where historical comparison with the NIH registry was 
performed.  The  observed  probability  of  survival  at  1  year  for  subjects  receiving  ambrisentan 
(combined  ambrisentan  dose  group)  was  95%,  without  any  notable  effect  of  ambrisentan  dose  on 
long-term  survival.  Moreover,  the  observed  probability  of  survival  for  IPAH  subjects  receiving  any 
dose of ambrisentan was 97% at 1-year, compared to 72% as predicted by NIH estimates (for the 5mg 
dose the observed probability of survival was 95%, compared to 72% as predicted by NIH estimates). 
A downward trend in survival is observed at 2 and 2.5-years being the rates similar to that predicted 
by NIH estimates. In addition, and compared favourably with the estimated 1-yr survival calculated 
with the NIH equation (72%), the French National Registry of PAH showed an observed probability 
at  1-year  of  88.4%  in  the  whole  incident  group  (n  =121).  These  results  are  reassuring  although 
historical  comparisons  are  difficult  to  interpret  and  should  be  carefully  analysed.    It  is  important  to 
remark that at the cut-off date, the combined mean exposure for  subjects who received ambrisentan 
was  38.6  ±  26.52  weeks.  The  applicant  has  provided  an  update  of  the  survival  analysis  for  patients 
with functional classes II and III over a period of 3.5 years, although historical comparison with the 
NIH  registry  have  not  been  given.  According  to  this  data  the  observed  probability  of  survival  at  2 
years for subjects with class II was 94% compared to 78% for subjects with class III. The probability 
at  3  years  was  94%  for  class  II  compared  to  70%  for  class  III  respectively.  Although  no  firm 
conclusion  can  be  drawn  from  this  data  these  results  suggest  that  patients  with  functional  class  II 
treated with ambrisentan have a better prognosis than those with functional class III.  
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The  safety  dossier  includes  data  from  the  2  pivotal  trials  (AMB-320  and  AMB-321),  two  phase  2 
studies - AMB-220 (a dose-controlled/open-label study) and AMB-222 (an open-label study) and the 
long-term safety is being evaluated in 2 studies: AMB-320/321-E (a dose-controlled/open-label study) 
and  AMB-220-E  (an  open-label  study).  Data  for  ongoing  clinical  trials  (AMB-222,  Study  AMB-
220-E,  and  Study  AMB-320/321-E)  to  a  cut  off  date  of  30th  November  2006  is  provided.  A  safety 
update up to the 31st of January 2007 for the SAEs and fatal adverse events is included in the clinical 
overview of the dossier. 
Considering all performed studies, 725 subjects were treated with ambrisentan (AMB). Four hundred 
and eighty three (483) subjects with PAH were exposed to ambrisentan in the phase 2 or 3 studies with 
an overall mean exposure to ambrisentan of 79.5 ± 50.28 weeks and a maximum exposure of 212.3 
weeks. This represents drug exposures of at least 6 months for the majority of subjects (86.5%) and at 
least 1 year in more than two-thirds of subjects (71.0%). Approximately one quarter of subjects have 
had drug exposures of 2 or  more years  (24.8%) and 8.7% subjects have had drug exposures of 3 or 
more years. 
The majority of the ambrisentan treated subjects in phase 3 trials were female (79.1%) and Caucasian 
(76.8%). Mean BMI at baseline in the all phase 3 trials was 27.2 kg/m2. The majority (309) of 393 
subjects in the phase 3 studies were younger than 65 years and 19 subjects were ≥75 years of age. 
30/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Events:  
In the pivotal studies, the majority of patients experienced at least one AE. Peripheral oedema, nasal 
congestion,  sinusitis,  flushing,  nasopharyngitis,  abdominal  pain,  constipation,  palpitations,  dyspnoea 
and  headache  had  a  higher  incidence  in  the  combined  ambrisentan  group  than  in  the  placebo  group 
(≥1% difference in incidence). 
However, right ventricular failure, nausea, urinary tract infection, pulmonary hypertension, dizziness, 
ALT  increased,  arthralgia,  dyspnoea  exacerbated,  and  upper  respiratory  tract  infection  had  a  higher 
incidence in the placebo group (≥1% difference in incidence). The higher incidence of right ventricular 
failure and pulmonary hypertension in subjects receiving placebo could reflect the disease progression.  
The most common AEs were those expected according to those observed with other similar medicinal 
products: headache, flushing, nasal symptoms (especially congestion) and peripheral oedema. A global 
description of the safety profile for the 10 mg dose; the most remarkable AE which is dose related is 
the  incidence  of  peripheral  oedema  and  when  it  occurs  it  may  be  more  severe,  particularly  in  the 
elderly (see also the discussion on Post-Marketing experience). For this dose the incidence of larger 
decreases in Hb appears more common and a greater mean decrease in blood pressure is observed but 
it is recognised that this has rarely been associated with adverse clinical sequelae in clinical trials. 
When data from the individual pivotal trials is assessed, marked incidence differences of AEs between 
the  2  studies  that  contributed  to  the  combined  AMB-320/321  analysis  population  are  observed.  The 
incidence of peripheral oedema was substantially different between AMB-320 and AMB-321 for the 5 
mg  treatment  groups  (26.9%  versus  9.5%,  respectively).  The  reason  for  these  differences  is  unclear 
The applicant argues that despite these differences among the two doses, the incidence of peripheral 
oedema was almost identical for the placebo groups in each study (10.4% in AMB-320 and 10.8% in 
AMB-321).  
Treatment-related  AEs  were  reported  in  similar  percentage  in  the  5  and  10  mg  treatment  groups 
(42.3% and 43.3%, respectively) and in a similar percentage in the placebo and 2.5 mg groups (32.6% 
and  29.7%)  respectively,  in  the  pooled  safety  analysis.  Common  AEs  (incidence  ≥3%)  judged  as 
treatment-related  in  the  combined  ambrisentan  group,  were  peripheral  oedema,  headache  and  nasal 
congestion. Peripheral oedema and nasal congestion were the only common TAE that appeared dose-
related.  No  adverse  events  others  than  peripheral  oedema  and  headache  were  reported  as  treatment-
related at an incidence ≥1% in placebo-treated subjects.  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Liver  safety:  Other  ERAs  have  demonstrated  dose-dependent  LFT  abnormalities,  specifically 
increases in serum aminotransferases that can be associated with hepatotoxicity. Clinical studies with 
ambrisentan  were  designed  to  critically  evaluate  the  incidence  and  severity  of  LFT  abnormalities  in 
order  to  identify  any  chance  of  DILI  (Drug  Induced  Liver  Injury).  Very  few  reported  events  were 
confirmed  with  repeated  testing  (placebo  n=2,  ambrisentan  5  mg  n=2,  ambrisentan  10  mg  n=2), 
however, it is acknowledged that in some cases (n=4) repeated testing was not performed as defined in 
the protocol. A clearer explanation for the absence of retesting within 7 days regarding laboratory liver 
abnormalities has been provided.  
The following table shows serum aminotransferase abnormalities (ALT and/or AST) by severity in all 
ambrisentan PAH studies (Population: All Studies) (Cut-off 16th November 2006). 
31/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the information available at present no specific concerns were observed by applying the 
Hy´s law criteria for drug induced hepatotoxicity, (Zimmerman HF 1999). 
A  specific  cohort  of  patients  considered  as  high  risk  has  been  evaluated,  those  participating  in  the 
AMB-222  study  (PAH  subjects  who  have  previously  had  significant  aminotransferase  abnormalities 
associated with the use of bosentan or sitaxentan). Data from this study are in principle reassuring: no 
in 
subject  had  elevations 
discontinuation of ambrisentan. These results suggest a more favorable safety profile of ambrisentan, 
although some limitations, as the number of patients and the length of treatment, should be taken into 
account. 
in  serum  aminotransferases  greater 
than  >3xULN 
that  resulted 
Finally, a review of the AEs that could be related to DILI is provided. One case of hepatic cirrhosis, 
moderate in severity and unrelated to therapy, was reported. Additionally, two cases of jaundice were 
notified. In the first case, which was reported as mild and unrelated to study drug, bilirubin and other 
LFTs were within normal ranges. In the second case, bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase increased but 
not  AST  and  ALT  and  was  reported  by  the  investigator  as  mild  and  possibly  related  to  AMB 
treatment. 
One  fatal  event  of  abdominal  pain  has  been  reported  for  which  currently  there  is  insufficient 
information to definitively exclude a hepatotoxicity event associated with ambrisentan (Subject 221-
003). The applicant was requested to provide all relevant information available on this issue. However, 
the available information does not allow for a definitive assessment of this case. At present, the overall 
pattern  of  liver  safety  appears  better  than  that  of  other  existing  sulfonamide  ERAs,  however,  a 
cautious  approach  is  considered  appropriate.  The  SPC  labelling  for  the  monitoring  of  liver  enzyme 
elevations is in line with other ERAs. In addition, liver enzyme elevations are an important aspect of 
the RMP.  
During the period between the data cut-off and the 31 January 2007 two additional cases of elevated 
asymptomatic LFTs were notified. In the first case an increase >4 x ULN in LFTs was reported 3.5 
years  after  starting  AMB  10  mg.  The  other  case  was  an  asymptomatic  elevation  ALT>3  x  ULN 
reported  2  years  after  starting  AMB  5  mg.  The  event  was  considered  related  probably  to  AMB  and 
was temporarily discontinued. Reports for 6 subjects with SAEs of liver enzyme elevations in ongoing 
clinical  trials  with  onset  during  the  period  between  30  November  2006  and  31  July  2007  are  also 
included. This additional information does not alter the conclusion that ambrisentan appears to have a 
favourable hepatic safety profile. 
Electrocardiography:  A  “Thorough  QT/QTc”  study  was  performed  fulfilling  the  requirements  of  the 
ICH (E 14) on “The Clinical Evaluation of QT/QTc Interval Prolongation and Proarrhythmic Potential 
for Non-Antiarrhythmic Drugs”. The design of the study seems appropriate in terms of randomization, 
placebo and positive control, blinding and timing of ECGs, considering the PK profile of ambrisentan. 
Subject enrolment for the trial and discontinuation criteria are also deemed adequate. 
32/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary objective of this study was to assess whether administration of ambrisentan 10 mg/day on 
Days 1-5, followed by a 40 mg dose on Day 6 had the potential to cause QTc prolongation in healthy 
volunteers. Ambrisentan was administered at the higher intended dose (10 mg) and at a dose 4 times 
higher  to  provide  a  sufficient  safety  margin.  Moxifloxacin  400  mg/day  on  day  1,  5  and  day  6  was 
included so as to establish assay sensitivity.  
Most of the participants were male (74.5%; nearly half of patients were Black or African American). 
Other demographic variables (i.e. age, weight, height...) were equally distributed.  
Three  types  of  corrections  for  the  QT  interval  were  initially  planned;  QTcS  (QTc  obtained  using 
Framingham/Sagie  correction  formula),  QTcB  (QTc  obtained  by  the  Bazzet’s  formula)  and  QTcF 
(QTc obtained by the Fridericia’s formula). A post-hoc method QTcIb (individually corrected QTcIb) 
was included after a non expected increase in heart rate was observed. The correction for QTcIb was 
derived using the slope of the actual QT-RR relationship observed prior to treatment: i.e., using the 18 
ECGs  recorded  on  day  0  and  the  3  ECGs  recorded  prior  to  dosing  on  day  1  in  each  subject.  Each 
subject’s corrected QT for each ECG was then determined using the linear regression formula: QTcIb 
= observed QT + (baseline individualized slope x (1000 – observed RR in msec). 
As  previously  discussed,  the  effect  of  ambrisentan  on  heart  rate  was  not  consistent.  Although  no 
increases in heart rate were observed in AMB-105 and EE-001, a moderate increase was observed in 
EE-002.  Unexpectedly,  AMB  treatment  was  consistently  associated  with  an  initial  decrease  in  time-
matched heart rate at earlier time points and a subsequent increase at later time points, the maximum 
increase being observed on day 6, two hours after the administration of the higher dose (40 mg).  
An  expert  report  justifying  this  new  approach  emphasized  that  due  to  this  unexpected  moderate 
increase  of  heart  rate  with  ambrisentan  the  analysis  of  change  of  QT  was  mistaken  because  of  the 
“often misleading effects” of QT correction using the Bazett, Fridericia and linear regression (Sagie) 
correction formulae. This  mistake is  apparent in the large differences observed in the mean changes 
and in the outlier frequency for the 3 corrections. Some tables and figures were provided showing the 
adjustment  in  the  QT-RR  by  different  alternatives.  The  applicant  states  that  since  a  strong  inverse 
relationship was observed for heart rate and QT (i.e., QT values decreased with increased heart rate) 
on  day  6  for  subjects  receiving  40  mg  ambrisentan,  QTcS  appeared  to  overcorrect  for  heart  rate 
resulting in an apparent increase in QTcS with increased heart rate, which was similar for QTcF and 
more apparent for QTcB. 
Thus, the primary analysis and all the conclusions for the effect of AMB on change in QTc are based 
on this QTcIb (individually corrected QTc). Treatment effect on QTcIb was assessed using the time-
matched, baseline-adjusted mean change from baseline on day 6 at all time points of the AMB group 
(40mg)  to  the  time-matched,  baseline-adjusted  mean  change  from  baseline  on  day  6  in  the  placebo 
group and its two-side 90% confidence interval (CI). No adjustment was made for type I error for the 
comparisons reported at multiple time-points, for p-values or for confidence intervals.  
The largest increase in mean time-matched and placebo-adjusted QT for AMB at day 1 (10 mg single 
dose) was 1.16 ms (upper bound of the 90% CI: 6.10 ms) at predose level. For QTcIb, was 4.93 (90% 
CI:  -0.92  to  8.94)  which  occurred  2  hours  after  dosing  at  day  6  (40  mg).  Based  on  that,  it  is 
emphasized that neither the crude QT values nor the QTcIb indicated any cause for concern, according 
to the current ICH E14 requirements. 
Considering  the  pre-specified  primary  variable,  the  largest  increase  in  mean  time-matched  and 
placebo-adjusted QTcS was 10.19 ms (upper bound of the 90% CI: 14.22 ms) which occurred 2 hours 
after dosing at day 6 (40 mg). And for the QTcF and QTcB were 8.94 90% (CI: 4.94 to 12.95) and 
16.39  (CI:  11.23  to  21.54)  respectively,  which  occurred  2  hours  after  dosing  at  day  6  (40  mg)  also, 
above  all,  the  threshold  of  10  ms  criterion  for  a  negative  Thorough  QT/QTc  study.  Once  again,  the 
expert’s  report  argues  that  this  increase  was  associated  with  (and  potentially  due  to)  the  increase  in 
heart rate, thus basing all his conclusions on the QTcIb results.  
33/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  this  particular  case,  Fridericia  correction,  which  is  generally  accepted  and  regarded  as  more 
appropriate in those cases where heart rate is increased, did not show the expected results. 
The positive control was moxifloxacin 400 mg/day on day 1, day 5 and day 6. The largest increase in 
mean time-matched and placebo-adjusted was 17.24 ms (upper bound of the 90% CI: 22.69 ms) at 1h 
on day 6 for the QTcB adjustment. The mean change with the selected QTcIb correction exceeded 5 
ms for most time points and nearly all lower bounds of the 90% CI were >0 ms and all  upper bounds 
reached  the  10  ms  threshold.  In  principle,  these  treatment  effects  were  consistent  with  the  expected 
values  for  subjects  treated  with  400  mg  moxifloxacin.  Therefore,  the  applicant  concludes  that  the 
study had sufficient sensitivity to provide data for the effects of ambrisentan on QTc. 
Analyses were also performed to identify subjects with QTc≥ 450 ms, 480 ms and 500 ms. For QT, 
only moxifloxacin had a value ≥ 450 ms in one subject. For QTcB, placebo had one value ≥ 450 ms in 
one subject, ambrisentan had 13 values ≥ 450 ms in 4 subjects, and moxifloxacin had 19 elevations in 
5 subjects. For QTcF, only moxifloxacin had a value ≥ 450 ms in one subject. For QTcS, moxifloxacin 
had  a  value  ≥  450  ms  in  one  subject  also.  Only  one  case  of  QTcIb  >  450  ms  was  found  in  the 
moxifloxacin treatment group. No cases of QTcIb > 480 ms were found in any group.  
In  categorical  analyses,  after  a  single  dose  of  ambrisentan  (day  1)  the  percentage  of  subjects  in  the 
ambrisentan  group  with  a  change  from  baseline  QTcIb  or  QTcS  >30  msec  and  ≤60  msec  was  1.9% 
AMB vs 1.9 PLAC for the QTcIb and 1.9 % AMB vs 3.8 % PLAC for the QTcS adjustment. After 
multiple once-daily dosing of 10 mg ambrisentan (day 5) the percentage of subjects in the ambrisentan 
group with a change from baseline QTcIb >30 msec and ≤60 msec was greater than the placebo group 
(3.8% AMB vs 1.9% PLA); this difference was greater for the QTcS ( 7.7 % AMB vs 1.9% PLA). No 
subject in any treatment group had a change in the QTc (using all corrections) that exceeded 60 msec. 
Due to the small number of female subjects, no clear conclusions on changes in QTc by gender can be 
drawn.  No  clinically  significant  effect  on  PR/QRS  intervals,  QRS  axis  shift  or  ST-T-U  morphology 
has been noticed in this study.  
The dose-response and the concentration-response relationship have been studied. A 4-fold increase in 
ambrisentan  dose  was  associated  with  less  than  a  2-fold  increase  in  the  mean  time-matched  and 
placebo-adjusted QTc; therefore, these data does not support a well-defined dose-response relationship 
on potential QT/QTc changes. 
Further clinical data from placebo-controlled phase 3 studies was provided to be more confident with 
the results. Electrocardiographic data obtained after 12 weeks of treatment (AMB-320 and AMB-321) 
indicated that similar percentage of patients in all treatment groups [placebo: 8.3%; ambrisentan 2.5 
mg:  9.4%;  ambrisentan  5  mg:  6.2%;  ambrisentan  10  mg:  11.9%]  had  abnormal  ECG  readings 
considered  clinically  significant.  The  types  of  abnormalities  were  qualitatively  and  quantitatively 
similar to the abnormalities observed at baseline and were expected in patients with PAH. Few cases 
of sudden death and cardiac arrest have been reported during treatment with ambrisentan and placebo, 
but none have been linked to Torsades de Pointes. 
Since AMB was not expected to produce an increase in heart rate, it is understandable the applicant’s 
effort to find other QT correction strategies not so influenced by heart rate. As stated in the ICH Topic 
E14 suitable correction approach for study population with broad range of heart rates is individualized 
one, though the choice correction method is a subject of controversy. The justification and discussion 
provided by the applicant for the adequacy of the QTcIb correction method and the implications of the 
study results are acknowledged.  
In  conclusion  there  were  no  significant ambrisentan-induced  QT  changes  observed  in  the  AMB-104 
study.  
ECG:  Since  AMB-104  was  regarded  as  negative,  no  expanded  ECG  safety  evaluations  during  later 
stages of drug development were performed. To date, ambrisentan has not demonstrated any clinically 
34/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significant effect due to the increases in the QT/QTC interval, regarded as below the level of regulatory 
concern from the AMB-104 study results. 
Haemorrhagic  events:  As  stated  in  the  pharmacology  section,  the  assessment  of  the  possible 
interaction  between  ambrisentan  and  warfarin  did  not  demonstrate  any  changes  in  the  PK  profile  of 
either  product  that  would  translate  into  clinical  issues  (higher  risk  of  thromboembolism  or  bleeding 
episodes).  The  review  of  the  haemorrhagic  events  reported  for  the  main  trials  and  their  extension 
periods,  leads  to  the  conclusion  that  there  is  not  a  clear  bleeding  pattern  that  would  suggest  a 
relationship between the ambrisentan administration and the occurrence of hemorrhagic events. Most 
of the bleeding episodes were not related to treatment. 
Deaths:  From  the  beginning  of  the  first  phase  2  study  until  30  November  2006,  48  of  483  subjects 
(9.9%) have died while receiving ambrisentan or within 4 weeks after the last dose of study drug.  
A  total  of  21  (4.3%)  deaths  occurred  during  the  safety  update  period  (17  February  2006  to  30 
November 2006). At the time of death, 1, 2, 9 and 9 subjects were receiving 1 mg, 2.5 mg, 5 mg and 
10 mg ambrisentan respectively. Of the 21 subjects who died during the safety update period, 14 had 
their ambrisentan dose increased at least once. Nearly all deaths that occurred during the safety update 
period were attributed to progressing right heart or respiratory failure and were considered unrelated to 
study drug. 
Overall, the number of deaths during the study was not so much higher than those reported for other 
PAH treatments at standard dose. However, the low number of patients treated, the poor prognosis of 
the disease and the absence of a control group in the extension studies make it difficult to draw any 
firm conclusions about the cause of death. Once again we miss the presence of an active comparator 
even if only for a descriptive intention. 
In order to be more confident with the data, a summary of deaths in ambrisentan phase 2 and 3 studies 
over the initial analysis period (24 weeks for AMB-222; 12 weeks for AMB-320 and AMB- 321) has 
been  provided.  This  shows  the  same  incidence  of  death  (7  deaths  per  100  years  of  exposure)  in  the 
combined  ambrisentan  group  from  both  the  phase  2  and  3  studies.  The  rate  in  the  placebo  treated 
group in AMB-320/321 was 20 deaths per 100 years of exposure to placebo. 
SAEs:  In  the  phase  3  placebo-controlled  trials,  a  higher  proportion  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group 
(16.7%) had at least 1 SAE compared to the combined AMB group (9.2%). The most frequent SAE 
for both the placebo and combined ambrisentan groups was right ventricular failure (placebo, 6.1%; 
ambrisentan,  1.9%),  which  is  undoubtedly  a  sign  of  disease  progression.  A  frequent  AE  such  as 
peripheral  oedema  was  reported  as  a  treatment-related  SAE  in  only  2  (0.8%)  subjects  receiving 
ambrisentan. There was no apparent relationship to ambrisentan dose in the occurrence of SAE.  
•  Laboratory findings 
Incidence  of  clinically  relevant  laboratory  changes  was  assessed.  To  date  no  clinically  meaningful 
changes  from  baseline,  others 
those  expected  (haematological  parameters  and  LFTs 
abnormalities), were detected in laboratory values. 
than 
Haemaglobin  (Hb)  and  haematocrit  changes:  One  of  the  most  noticeable  laboratory  abnormalities, 
shared with other ERAs, was the decrease in Hb concentrations. Throughout the phase 3 studies, mean 
Hb figures and haematocrit values decreased for subjects in the ambrisentan groups as early as during 
the first 4 weeks of treatment (2.5 mg:  0.74 g/dL, 5 mg: 0.76 g/dL, 10 mg: 1.1 g/dL, and combined 
ambrisentan: -0.83 g/dL). Little change was seen for the placebo group (0.10 g/dL). They appear to be 
related with the ambrisentan dose which corresponds to what had been observed with sitaxentan and 
bosentan.  The  same  pattern  was  observed  for  haematocrit.  Furthermore,  clinically  significant 
reductions in haemoglobin and haematocrit were not observed with long-term ambrisentan treatment 
beyond  Week  4.  Of  note,  a  similar  frequency  of  commonly  observed  AEs  possibly  related  to  low 
haemoglobin  and  haematocrit  (e.g.,  anaemia  and  epistaxis)  was  observed  in  the  ambrisentan  groups 
compared to placebo.  
35/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall,  this  data  indicates  that  AMB  exhibits,  in  principle,  a  moderate,  non  progressive  and  dose-
related  Hb  reduction.  As  for  other  drugs  of  the  same  group,  the  initiation  of  treatment  is  not 
recommended in patients with clinically significant anaemia. The rationale for this Hb and haematocrit 
abnormalities  is  not  fully  clarified.  At  present,  no  signs  of  bone  marrow  toxicity  or  hemolysis  have 
been observed which is reassuring. 
LFTs:  Mean  baseline  values  for  total  bilirubin,  serum  alkaline  phosphatase,  and  GGT  were  similar 
among treatment groups. At Week 12, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, and GGT increased for the 
placebo  group;  whereas,  clinically  relevant  decreases  were  observed  for  the  combined  ambrisentan 
group and for each ambrisentan treatment group compared to placebo. These changes probably reflect 
a reduction in hepatic congestion associated with improved haemodynamics. 
Male  Fertility:  According  to  non-clinical  data,  a  relationship  between  chronic  use  of  ERA-class 
compounds  and  development  of  testicular  atrophy  and  infertility  has  been  suggested.  In  order  to 
evaluate this potential risk, subjects were asked to provide semen and blood samples every 12 weeks 
for the first year (48 weeks) and every 24 weeks thereafter. Laboratory evaluations were carried out on 
a limited number of patients (around 27 patients). Preliminary data did not suggest that ambrisentan 
was  associated  with  an  adverse  effect  on  male  reproduction  but  the  safety  database  on  this  specific 
aspect  is  considered  unacceptably  limited.  Further  data  from  ongoing  studies  included  limited 
additional data relating to sperm counts and male hormone analysis. In the absence of an indication for 
a clinically relevant effect on male fertility in these seriously ill patients, a balanced description of pre-
clinical findings has been included the SPC. Further clinical data will be provided post-authorisation. 
Vital  signs:  No  clinically  relevant  mean  changes  in  heart  rate  were  observed  with  ambrisentan  in 
healthy  subjects  or  in  subjects  with  PAH.  The  differences  of  the  heart  rate  figures  pertain  to  the 
clinical  differences  among  healthy  and  PAH  patients,  mainly  relaying  on  the  role  of  the  neuro-
hormonal activation in the PAH patients. 
Only  minor  decreases  were  observed  in  mean  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressures  during 
ambrisentan  treatment,  with  minimal  fluctuations  observed  after  Week  4.  In  addition,  a  similar 
frequency of AEs  possibly  related  to  low  blood pressure  (e.g.,  hypotension, dizziness,  and  syncope) 
was observed in the pivotal trials for AMB groups compared to placebo.  
•  Safety in special populations 
Information  regarding  the  lack  of  data  on  children  and  patients  with  renal  impairment  has  been 
adequately  reflected  in  the  SPC.  Based  on  the  results  of  the  PPK  analysis,  an  advice  for  caution  if 
therapy with ambrisentan is initiated in patients with severe renal impairment is included in the SPC.  
As  stated  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  section,  inclusion  criteria  were  very  restrictive  for  hepatic 
function. A contraindication in patients with severe hepatic impairment has been included since in this 
patient population an increase in the exposure would be expected with a potential impact on safety. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No significant drug-drug interactions have been observed so far in the clinical studies. The principal 
conclusions regarding drug interactions are provided in the PK section.  
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The most common reason for premature discontinuation in the ambrisentan group was AEs. Incidence 
of  discontinuation  due  to  AE  was  low,  both  in  the  placebo  and  in  the  ambrisentan  arm.  The  most 
frequently  reported  AEs  that  resulted  in  discontinuation  were  pulmonary  hypertension  and  right 
ventricular failure. 
36/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Post marketing experience 
Ambrisentan  was approved for marketing in the United States (US) on 15 June 2007. The applicant 
states that post-marketing reports from the US of fluid retention occurring within weeks after starting 
ambrisentan  have  been  received  and,  in  some  cases,  have  required  intervention  with  a  diuretic  or 
hospitalisation for fluid management.  
A  cumulative  total  of  32  reports  (spontaneous,  n=25  and  serious clinical  study  reports  n=7)  of  fluid 
retention / oedema / weight gain were identified. Of the 32 cases, 5 were considered to provide some 
evidence of a causal association with ambrisentan. 
Of the 32 cases, 5 reported heart failure (or pulmonary oedema). However, it is explained that of these, 
2  reported  a  relatively  long  time  to  onset  and  were  confounded  by  intercurrent  pneumonia  or 
underlying  atrial  fibrillation.  Two  further  reports  showed  a  stronger  temporal  relationship  but  one 
patient had a history of atrial fibrillation and the other was confounded by underlying interstitial lung 
disease  and  intercurrent  upper  respiratory  tract  infection.  It  is  acknowledged  that  these  confounding 
factors could also be risk factors for ambrisentan-associated oedema. The remaining case was poorly 
documented.    Overall,  it  was  considered  that  the  currently  available  information  was  insufficient  to 
support an association between ambrisentan and decompensate heart failure. 
The remaining 27 reports were considered to be confounded (n = 13) or poorly documented (n = 12) or 
the event description was considered more likely indicative of peripheral oedema (n = 2). 
In view of the post-marketing information it is considered appropriate to include information relating 
to  the  clinical  trial  experience  with  peripheral  oedema  and  the  post  marketing  experience  with  fluid 
retention in section 4.4 of the SPC.  
Together with the post-marketing information, a detailed discussion examining the baseline 
characteristics in the pivotal trials for factors that might affect the incidence of peripheral oedema was 
presented. This discussion showed only that there was a slightly higher proportion of patients with less 
symptomatic (WHO class II) disease in AMB-321 than in AMB-320. Patients with class II symptoms 
at baseline have a lower risk of developing peripheral oedema with the 5mg dose compared with 
patients with Class III symptoms. 
This point was considered of relevance and has been reflected in section 4.2. of the SPC. 
The  incidence  and  consequences  of  peripheral  oedema/fluid  retention  will  be  one  of  the  main 
endpoints of the proposed Post-Marketing Surveillance Program designed with the intention to collect 
additional safety information for ambrisentan during standard clinical care.  
2.5 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
Table: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Teratogenicity 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities, including use of 
targeted follow-up 
questionnaires. 
•  Additional information that 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
•  Contraindication information in 
section 4.3 of SPC for use of 
ambrisentan in pregnancy and in 
women of childbearing potential 
who are not using reliable 
37/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
• 
may arise from clinical trials. 
Post-marketing surveillance 
program to collect additional 
safety data. 
Anaemia (decreases in 
haemoglobin and/or 
haematocrit) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities, including use of 
targeted follow-up 
questionnaires. 
•  Additional information from 
• 
clinical trials. 
Post-marketing surveillance 
program to collect additional 
safety data. 
Oedema (peripheral 
oedema/ fluid 
retention) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities, including use of 
targeted follow-up 
questionnaires. 
•  Additional information from 
• 
• 
clinical trials. 
Post-marketing surveillance 
program to collect additional 
safety data. 
• 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
contraception.   
• 
• 
•  The SPC (section 4.4, 4.6 and 5.3) 
includes appropriate language 
concerning teratogenicity. 
Pregnancy must be excluded prior to 
initiation of treatment and monthly 
pregnancy testing during treatment 
is recommended. 
Physicians, pharmacists, patients 
and male partners of female patients 
will receive supplemental 
educational material regarding 
safety concern as part of a 
Pregnancy Prevention Program and 
controlled distribution system. 
•  Ambrisentan treatment should only 
be initiated by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of 
PAH. 
Pack size will be limited to 30 
tablets. 
• 
•  Appropriate warnings included in 
section 4.4 and appropriate labeling 
for adverse reactions in section 4.8 
of the SPC.  
•  Treatment should not be initiated in 
patients with clinically significant 
anaemia. 
•  Haematocrit and/or haemoglobin 
concentrations are to be checked 
during treatment with ambrisentan, 
for example at 1 month, 3 months 
and periodically thereafter in line 
with clinical practice.  
•  Appropriate warnings included in 
sections 4.4 and appropriate labeling 
for adverse reactions in sections 4.2 
and 4.8 of SPC. 
Peripheral oedema has been 
observed with ERAs including 
ambrisentan.  Most cases of 
peripheral oedema in clinical studies 
with ambrisentan were mild to 
moderate in severity, although it 
appeared to occur with greater 
frequency and severity in patients ≥
65 years. Peripheral oedema was 
reported more frequently with 
10 mg ambrisentan. 
Post-marketing reports of fluid 
retention occurring within weeks 
after starting ambrisentan have been 
received and, in some cases, have 
required intervention with a diuretic 
or hospitalisation for fluid 
38/44 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Hypersensitivity 
Hepatotoxicity 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities, including use of 
targeted follow-up 
questionnaires.  
•  Additional information from 
• 
clinical trials. 
Post-marketing surveillance 
program to collect additional 
safety data. 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities, including use of 
targeted follow-up 
questionnaires.  
•  Additional information from 
• 
clinical trials. 
Post-marketing surveillance 
program to collect additional 
safety data. 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
• 
management. 
If clinically significant fluid 
retention develops, with or without 
associated weight gain, further 
evaluation should be undertaken to 
determine the cause, such as 
ambrisentan or underlying heart 
failure, and the possible need for 
specific treatment or discontinuation 
of ambrisentan therapy. 
•  Contraindication information in 
• 
section 4.3 of SPC for 
hypersensitivity to active substance, 
soya or to any of the excipients. 
SPC includes a precaution in section 
4.4 of SPC for potential of allergic 
reactions with azo colouring agent 
Allura red AC Aluminum Lake 
(E129) and appropriate labeling for 
adverse reactions in section 4.8. 
•  Contraindication in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment (with or 
without cirrhosis) and in patients 
with baseline values of hepatic 
aminotransferases (AST and/or 
ALT) > 3X ULN in section 4.3 of 
SPC. 
•  Appropriate warnings in section 4.4 
of SPC. 
• 
• 
•  Monthly on therapy monitoring of 
ALT and/or AST is recommended. 
If patients develop sustained, 
unexplained clinically significant 
ALT and/or AST elevation or if 
ALT and/or AST elevation is 
accompanied by signs or symptoms 
of hepatic injury (e.g. jaundice), 
ambrisentan therapy should be 
discontinued. 
In subjects without clinical 
symptoms of hepatic injury or 
jaundice, re-initiation of 
ambrisentan may be considered 
following resolution of hepatic 
enzyme abnormalities.  The advice 
of a hepatologist is recommended. 
Physicians, pharmacists and patients 
will receive supplemental 
educational material regarding this 
safety concern as part of a 
controlled distribution system. 
•  Ambrisentan treatment should only 
• 
be initiated by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of 
PAH. 
39/44 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Testicular tubular 
atrophy 
Symptomatic 
hypotension 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  The SPC contains appropriate 
• 
Pack size will be limited to 30 
tablets. 
language concerning preclinical 
testicular tubular atrophy findings 
and fertility in sections 4.6 and 5.3. 
•  The SPC contains appropriate 
language concerning potential of 
hypotension with an ambrisentan 
overdose in sections 4.9 and 5.3.  
activities. 
•  Additional information from 
• 
clinical trials. 
Investigation of chronic 
administration of ambrisentan 
and effect on sperm 
production in male patients 
with PAH.   
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities, including use of 
targeted follow-up 
questionnaires.  
•  Additional information from 
• 
clinical trials. 
Post-marketing surveillance 
program to collect additional 
safety data. 
Use in paediatric/ 
adolescent patients 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  The SPC contains appropriate 
activities. 
•  Additional information from 
clinical trials. 
language concerning special 
populations in section 4.2 of SPC. 
•  Ambrisentan is not recommended 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  The SPC contains appropriate 
for use in children below 18 years of 
age due to a lack of data on safety 
and efficacy. 
Use in patients with 
severe renal 
impairment 
activities. 
•  Additional information from 
• 
clinical trials. 
Post-marketing surveillance 
program to collect additional 
safety data. 
Use in patients with 
severe hepatic 
impairment 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
language concerning special 
populations in sections 4.2 and 5.2 
of SPC. 
•  There is limited data for use of 
ambrisentan in individuals with 
severe renal impairment (<30 
mL/min) and in these patients, 
initiation of therapy should be 
undertaken cautiously.  
•  Contraindication in section 4.3 of 
the SPC in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (with or without 
cirrhosis) and in patients with 
baseline values of hepatic 
aminotransferases (AST and/or 
ALT)> 3X ULN.  
•  The SPC contains appropriate 
language concerning special 
populations in sections 4.2 and 5.2 
of SPC. 
Use in other PH 
patient groups and 
some patient 
subgroups within 
“group 1” 
Lactation 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
• 
activities. 
•  Additional information from 
clinical trials. 
Sections 4.1 and 5.1 of SPC will 
clearly define patient population 
where efficacy has been established. 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  Contraindication in section 4.3 for 
40/44 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
activities. 
Drug-drug 
interactions 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities.  
•  Additional information from 
clinical trials for drug-drug 
interaction studies with oral 
contraceptives, cyclosporine 
A, rifampin and tadalafil. 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
use of ambrisentan in lactation. 
•  The SPC contains appropriate 
language concerning lactation in 
sections 4.6 and 5.3. 
•  Appropriate labeling for drug-drug 
interactions in sections 4.5 and 5.2 
of SPC. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product: see as detailed in section 2.3 of this CHMP Assessment Report  
2.6 Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall the primary PD studies provided adequate evidence that ambrisentan blocks the pressor effects 
of exogenous endothelin, to decrease arterial blood pressure and to inhibit neointimal proliferation 
after arterial damage. 
From  the  pK  point  of  view,  the  disposition  characteristics  were  generally  similar  across  the  species 
tested,  showing  ambrisentan  to  be  a  low  clearance  compound  with  low  to  moderate  volume  of 
distribution in all preclinical species. The elimination was characterized as triphasic.  
The  PK  drug  interaction  studies  showed  that  ambrisentan  is  unlikely  to  be  involved  in  metabolism-
related  drug-drug  interactions.  Results  of  studies  conducted  to  evaluate  the  inductive  effects  of 
ambrisentan  on  hepatic  transport  suggest  that  the  likelihood  of  ambrisentan  having  an  adverse 
interaction with hepatic transporters is low. 
Overall the general toxicology programme revealed that ambrisentan produced nasal bone hyperplasia 
of the ethmoid turbinates observed in the nasal cavity of rats and also testicular tubular atrophy. The 
mechanism of the nasal bone hyperplasia is not clear but an association with inflammatory process in 
the  nasal  cavity  area  is  suggested.  Information  to  this  respect  has  been  maintained  in  the  SPC  since 
similar effects in humans after long-term exposure cannot be discarded. Testicular tubular atrophy has 
been observed in all tested preclinical species, and further clinical data however will be provided post-
authorisation. 
Ambrisentan was shown to be teratogenic to rats and rabbits, and a strict pregnancy contraindication 
has been included in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
The  primary  ITT  analysis  showed  a  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  mean  placebo-
corrected  ambrisentan  treatment  effect  on  the  6MWD  of  an  increase  of  31  -  59  meters  in  all  active 
treatment groups.  
41/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  dose-response  relationship  for  the  change  in  6MWD  was  observed  for  each  of  the  placebo-
controlled  studies,  although  the  effect  for  the  5mg  dose  group  in  AMB-321  is  double  than  the  one 
shown in AMB-320. No reasons for the different effect observed have been identified. 
The conclusions from the primary outcome parameter are supported by those from secondary variables 
in the combined analysis, as all endpoints evaluated were statistically significant for the ambrisentan 
group.  When  the  analysis  was  performed  for  each  individual  study,  some  secondary  endpoints  were 
also statistically significant for AMB-321, although none were statistically significant for AMB-320.  
One of the main concerns identified in this application was the true representativeness of the patients 
considered  as  functional  class  II.  The  applicant  has  extensively  explored  the  data  and  has  provided 
analyses which confirmed that the patients classified as class II are different from those classified as 
class III and are less severe from a clinical point of view.  
The available information indicates that in patients classified as class II at baseline there is a lack of 
dose  relationship  for  improvement  in  6MWD.  However,  PAH  is  a  progressive  disease  and 
deterioration  despite  targeted  therapy  is  commonly  observed  in  the  long-term.  Therefore,  from  a 
clinical point of view, there may be a clinical need for the 10mg dose of ambrisentan, in patients who 
have tolerated the 5mg dose well but whose symptoms have progressed.   
Data from the phase 3 studies identified that the 10 mg dose may bring higher benefit to patients with 
PAH-CTD in comparison with the 5 mg dose. The baseline characteristics of the study populations (5 
and 10 mg) did not reveal any explanation for the observed difference in response to ambrisentan. 
Patients with PAH-CTD have, however, a consistently smaller response to other ERAs compared to 
patients with IPAH. The greater efficacy associated with the 10 mg dose may be the result of a dose-
response effect in this patient group. 
Safety 
The safety profile of ambrisentan is in line with that expected for this product class. The most common 
AEs  are  headache,  flushing,  nasal  symptoms  (especially  congestion)  and  peripheral  oedema. 
Concerning  the  10mg  dose  it  is  of  importance  to  point  out  the  dose-related  incidence  of  peripheral 
oedema and its potential severity, particularly in the elderly. Decreases in Hb, as for other ERAs, are 
also a common AE with a higher incidence in the 10mg dose.  
An  important  safety  concern  in  the  ERA  class  is  hepatotoxicity.  At  present,  ambrisentan  appears  to 
have a better hepatic safety profile than for other ERAs, however, a cautious approach is considered 
appropriate. 
Effects on QTc were thoroughly investigated with at present no significant ambrisentan-induced QT 
changes observed. 
Non-clinical  data  has  shown  a  relationship  between  chronic  use  of  ERA-class  compounds  and 
development of testicular atrophy and infertility has been suggested. Preliminary clinical data did not 
suggest  that  ambrisentan  was  associated  with  an  adverse  effect  on  male  reproduction  but  the  safety 
database on this specific aspect is considered too small to draw robust conclusions. This information is 
included in the SPC and further data will be collected post-authorisation.  
No studies have been performed in renally impaired patients, however results from the population PK 
analysis have lead to an advice for caution in patients with a CrCL<30 mL/min been included in the 
SPC.  Information  relating  to  baseline  renal  function  will  be  collected  as  part  of  the  post  marketing 
surveillance programme to assess the safety profile in the renal impaired population. 
It  is  important  to  state  that  post-marketing  reports  from  the  US  on  fluid  retention  occurring  within 
weeks after starting ambrisentan have been presented and assessed. The incidence and consequences 
of peripheral oedema/fluid retention will be one of the main endpoints of the proposed Post-Marketing 
Surveillance  Program  designed  with  the  intention  to  collect  additional  safety  information  for 
ambrisentan during standard clinical care.  
42/44 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
User  consultation  has  been  performed  on  a  package  leaflet.  A  pilot  test  followed  by  two  rounds  of 
testing  was  carried  out  and  minimum  requirements  according  to  current  European  guidelines  were 
achieved.  The  amendments  made  between  first  and  second  round  were  generally  accepted,  and  the 
user consultation considered acceptable with implementation of results in the product information.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
The  pivotal  trials  have  shown  a  statistically  significant  effect  of  ambrisentan  on  the  6-Minute  Walk 
Test. Results of the primary endpoint are supported by those from secondary variables in the combined 
analysis.  
The available information indicates that the 10mg dose is generally well tolerated in patients classified 
as class II at baseline, however there is a lack of dose relationship for improvement in 6MWD in this 
class.  However,  due  to  the  progressive  nature  of  PAH,  patients  initially  classified  as  class  II  could 
benefit from 10mg if during the course of the disease their symptoms progress to class III.   
Data presented also supports the efficacy of ambrisentan in CTD-associated PAH especially with 10 
mg dose.  
In  relation  to  safety,  the  AEs  reported  were  similar  to  those  described  with  other  ERAs.  Long-term 
safety data available is consistent with this observed for the pivotal studies. The safety profile from a 
new updated safety analysis is consistent with that observed in the original analysis period. However, 
safety data should be cautiously interpreted considering the relatively small number of patients as well 
as the lack of a control arm. Additional experience will be gained from the post-marketing experience 
and  pharmacovigilance  activities.  A  safety  issue,  however,  which  at  present  deserves  further 
assessment, is the effect of ambrisentan on male fertility.  
Data  provided  indicates  that  in  principle  the  adverse  events  are  manageable  in  clinical  practice.  In 
addition,  different  actions  are  proposed  to  further  clarify  and  characterize  the  risk  of  clinically 
significant changes in haemoglobin, peripheral oedema and hepatic safety profile as part of the RMP. 
The B/R ratio for ambrisentan is considered positive provided that the applicant commits to perform a 
number of post authorisation follow-up measures to be reported back to the CHMP within predefined 
timeframes.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns. The following additional risk minimisation 
activities were required: see as detailed in section 2.3.  
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  Volibris  is  not  similar  to  iloprost  (Ventavis®),  treprostinil 
(Remodulin®),  bosentan  (Tracleer®),  sildenafil  (Revatio®),  and  sitaxentan  (Thelin®)  within  the 
meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200 (See appendix 1). 
43/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Volibris in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
In addition, the CHMP, with reference to Article 8 of Regulation EC No 141/2000, considers Volibris 
not  to  be  similar  (as  defined  in  Article  3  of  Commission  Regulation  EC  No.  847/2000)  to  iloprost 
(Ventavis®),  treprostinil  (Remodulin®),  bosentan  (Tracleer®),  sildenafil  (Revatio®),  and  sitaxentan 
(Thelin®) for the same therapeutic indication. 
44/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
