21 June 2012 
EMA/CHMP/394431/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report  
Volibris 
ambrisentan   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000839/II/0026 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Glaxo Group Ltd. submitted to 
the European Medicines Agency on 7 February 2012 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Orphan Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary name: 
Presentations: 
Volibris 
ambrisentan 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation(s) requested 
Type 
C.I.4 
Variations related to significant modifications of the SPC 
II 
due in particular to new quality, pre-clinical, clinical or 
pharmacovigilance data 
The  MAH  proposed  the  update  of  sections  4.4  and  5.1  of  the  SmPC  after  the  assessment  of  the  7th 
PSUR,  in  order  to  add  a  warning  about  the  use  of  ambrisentan  in  patients  with  Idiopathic  Pulmonary 
Fibrosis (IPF). The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur:   Concepcion Prieto Yerro 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Rapporteur’s assessment report circulated on: 
Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
Rapporteur’s assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
7 February 2012  
19 February 2012 
12 April 2012 
19 April 2012 
21 May 2012 
18 June 2012 
CHMP opinion: 
21 June 2012 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Ambrisentan is an orally active, propanoic acid-class, endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) selective 
for the endothelin type A (ETA) receptor. Endothelin plays a significant role in the pathophysiology of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Ambrisentan blocks the ETA receptor subtype, localized 
predominantly on vascular smooth muscle cells and cardiac myocytes. This prevents endothelin-
Assessment report  
Page 2/18
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
mediated activation of second messenger systems that result in vasoconstriction and smooth muscle 
cell proliferation. The selectivity of ambrisentan for the ETA over the ETB receptor is expected to retain 
ETB receptor mediated production of the vasodilators nitric oxide and prostacyclin. 
Ambrisentan is indicated for the treatment of patients with PAH classified as WHO functional class II 
and III, to improve exercise capacity. Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH 
associated with connective tissue disease (PAH-CTD). It was approved in the EU through a centralised 
procedure under the trade name Volibris on 21st April 2008. Orphan designation had been granted by 
the EC on 11th April 2005. Ambrisentan is available as 5 mg and 10 mg film-coated tablets for oral 
administration. 
Patients with IPF are known to express increased levels of endothelin 1 receptor (ET-1) in the lungs 
and ET-1 inhibition is being tested for the management of IPF. In the 7th PSUR (period covered: 
15.12.10 - 14.06.11) the MAH reported that three studies in IPF had been discontinued. This type II 
variation application was submitted to provide the data from the ARTEMIS-IPF study [GS-US-231-
0101] for which the final clinical study report (CSR) was available at the time. The combined clinical 
study report for the other two studies, ARTEMIS-PH [GS-US-300-0128], A Phase 3, Randomized, 
Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Multi-Centre, Parallel-Group Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and 
Safety of Ambrisentan in Subjects with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis and Pulmonary Hypertension, and 
the extension study [GS-US-300-0146], A Phase 3, Long-Term, Open-Label, Multi-centre, Safety Study 
of Ambrisentan in Subjects with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis and Pulmonary Hypertension Associated 
with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis, was not available at the time of the initial submission, but was 
submitted in the responses to the Request for Supplementary Information in May 2012.  
2.2.  Clinical Efficacy aspects 
2.2.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Study GS-US-231-0101 - ARTEMIS-IPF  
A Phase 3, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Multi-Center, Parallel-Group, Event-Driven 
Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Ambrisentan in Subjects with Early Idiopathic Pulmonary 
Fibrosis (IPF) 
Objectives: 
The primary objective of this study was: 
• To determine if ambrisentan was effective in delaying disease progression and death in subjects with 
IPF. 
The secondary objectives of this study were: 
• To evaluate the safety of ambrisentan 
• To evaluate the effect of ambrisentan on development of pulmonary hypertension, quality of life 
(QOL), and dyspnoea symptoms in this subject population 
Methodology: This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center study to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of ambrisentan in subjects with IPF. The study consisted of 3 periods: 
screening, titration, and treatment. Screening occurred over a period of not more than 28 days. 
Following screening, all eligible subjects were stratified based on: 
Assessment report  
Page 3/18
 
 
 
  
 
(1) the presence or absence of PH on right heart catheterization (RHC), defined per protocol as mean 
pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) > 25 millimeters mercury (mmHg) with a normal (≤ 15 mmHg) 
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), and  
(2) whether or not a surgical lung biopsy (SLB) by independent core pathologists confirmed a diagnosis 
of definite or probable usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP).  
SLB was not a study procedure. Subjects were then randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive either 
ambrisentan or placebo. During the titration period, subjects received 5 mg ambrisentan or placebo 
once daily for 14 days. Subjects then received 10 mg ambrisentan or placebo from the beginning of 
the treatment period through the remainder of the study. Two blinded dose reductions were permitted 
during the treatment period if the subject did not tolerate investigational new product (i.e., 10 mg to 5 
mg). Study visits occurred every 84 days (± 6 days) from the first treatment visit. 
Number of Subjects (Planned and Analysed): Planned: 660 subjects (440 subjects in the 
ambrisentan arm and 220 in the placebo arm); Analysed: 492 subjects treated (329 subjects in the 
ambrisentan arm and 163 in the placebo arm). 
Diagnosis and Main Criteria for Inclusion:  
1. Male or female from 40 to 80 years of age 
2. Diagnosis of IPF based on the following criteria in accordance with American Thoracic 
Society/European Respiratory Society (ATS-ERS) guidelines for diagnosing IPF:  
  Definite or probable UIP confirmed on SLB by core pathologist, or 
 
In absence of SLB, high resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scan showing definite 
findings for IPF (bibasilar reticular abnormalities with minimal ground glass opacities) 
determined by core review and three of the following “minor criteria”: 
o  Age > 50 years 
o 
Insidious onset of otherwise unexplained dyspnoea on exertion  
o  Duration of illness ≥ 3 months  
o  Bibasilar, inspiratory crackles  
o  Diagnosis confirmed by HRCT within 90 days of study enrolment 
3. Honeycombing ≤ 5% as assessed on HRCT; HRCT results underwent a core review process to 
confirm diagnosis. 
4. Willingness to undergo RHC at baseline and at 48 weeks (Visit 7) or end of study 
5. Willingness and ability to comply with required monitoring of liver function every 28 days. Liver 
function tests (LFTs) included serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase 
(AST), alkaline phosphatase, gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), and total bilirubin concentrations 
6. FVC > 50 to ≤ 95% of predicted with a ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) to FVC 
(FEV1/FVC) ≥ 0.7. Pulmonary function tests completed no more than 90 days before screening 
7. Ability to perform a 6MWT at screening 
Duration of Treatment: This was an event-driven study. The study was to be terminated after 278 
subjects experienced an initial event meeting the primary endpoint (disease progression or death). It 
was anticipated that the accrual period would be 24 to 27 months with an 18-month follow-up 
Assessment report  
Page 4/18
 
 
 
  
 
evaluation of the last subject enrolled. The study was terminated early for futility – the primary 
endpoint could not be met and there were more events of deaths, disease progression and respiratory 
hospitalisations in the ambrisentan group compared to the placebo group.  
Efficacy primary endpoint of this study was time to death or disease progression, defined as the 
first occurrence of any of the following: 
  Either a relative decrease of ≥ 10% in FVC (L) and a relative decrease of ≥ 5% in Diffusing 
Capacity of Lung for Carbon Monoxide (DLCO) (mL/min/mmHg), or a relative decrease of ≥ 5% in 
FVC (L) and a relative decrease of ≥ 15% in DLCO (mL/min/mmHg); (deterioration in FVC and 
DLCO confirmed at the subsequent visit within 28 (± 14) days) 
  Respiratory hospitalization as defined in the protocol. Events adjudicated by a blinded Endpoint 
Committee 
  All-cause mortality 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were change in pulmonary function tests (FVC and DLCO) at Visit 7; 
change in 6-minute walk test (6MWT) at Visit 7; change in QOL score at Visit 7 as assessed by SF-36 
and SGRQ; change in dyspnoea as assessed by change in TDI score at Visit 7; among subjects without 
PH at baseline, the proportion who developed PH on-study (documented by RHC). 
Safety: Safety evaluations included 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs), adverse event (AE) 
assessments, vital sign measurements, physical examinations, and clinical laboratory evaluations. 
Serum ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, GGT, and total bilirubin were monitored in all subjects every 28 
(± 2) days at treatment and/or monitoring visits. 
Statistical methods: Prior to randomization, eligible subjects were stratified by baseline presence of 
PH on RHC (defined per protocol as mPAP > 25 mmHg with a normal [≤ 15 mmHg] PCWP) and 
whether an SLB had been performed with definite or probable UIP, determined by a core pathologist to 
confirm diagnosis. Within the four strata, subjects were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive 
ambrisentan or placebo. The full analysis set included all subjects randomized to treatment who 
received at least one dose of investigational medicinal product (IMP), analysed according to 
randomized treatment group. The efficacy full analysis set (FAS) was the primary analysis set for the 
assessment of efficacy. The safety full analysis set also included all subjects randomized to treatment 
who received at least one dose of IMP. 
Efficacy: The primary endpoint was the time to death or disease progression. The primary treatment 
comparison was made using a stratified log-rank test with a two-tailed significance level of 0.05. 
Subjects who prematurely discontinued study participation were censored at the time of their last clinic 
visit. The individual components of the primary endpoint (death, respiratory hospitalization, 
deterioration in pulmonary function) were summarized to investigate consistency of effect across all 
components. The proportions of subjects who developed PH on-study were compared between the 2 
treatment groups using Fisher’s Exact test. Changes from baseline in pulmonary function tests, QOL 
scores, UNOS LAS, and dyspnoea score were compared between treatment groups using the van 
Eleren stratified rank test. An independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) monitored the safety 
and welfare of the study subjects. The DMC met at designated intervals to review accumulated data 
and was empowered to make recommendations regarding early termination of the study or 
modification of the study design based on study results or relevant new findings in the medical 
literature. In addition, the DMC performed an unblinded formal statistical analysis of the primary 
endpoint after 116 events had been observed. Based on this analysis, the DMC could recommend early 
termination of the study for treatment benefit if p < 0.0001. In addition, the DMC could recommend 
early termination of the study for futility. In the case of a significant treatment benefit on the primary 
Assessment report  
Page 5/18
 
 
 
  
 
endpoint, the DMC was to consider the totality of the efficacy data and the sufficiency of the safety 
database prior to conferring with the sponsor and steering committee to issue their recommendation. 
With 237 events for the primary analysis, there was at least 80% power to detect a 30% reduction in 
the risk of death or disease progression with ambrisentan compared with placebo, i.e., a hazard ratio 
of 0.7. To achieve 237 events, it is anticipated that 660 subjects would be enrolled over 24 to 27 
months, with an 18-month follow-up of the last subject enrolled. 
Safety: Safety data, including adverse events, 12-lead ECGs, vital signs and clinical laboratory results 
were summarized by treatment group. In particular, the incidence of elevated LFTs was summarized. 
Study GS-US-300-0128 - ARTEMIS-PH  
A Phase 3, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Multi-Center, Parallel-Group Study to 
Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Ambrisentan in Subjects with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis and 
Pulmonary Hypertension 
Objectives: 
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of ambrisentan in patients with IPF. 
The primary objective of this study was: 
• To compare the change in 6-minute walk distance (6MWD) after initiating ambrisentan or placebo 
treatment in subjects with PH associated with IPF 
The secondary objectives of this study were as follows: 
• To evaluate changes in other clinical measures of PH and IPF after initiating ambrisentan or placebo 
treatment, including long-term survival, a composite morbidity/mortality endpoint, dyspnoea 
symptoms, World Health Organization (WHO) functional class, pulmonary function tests, quality of life, 
and serum N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide concentrations 
• The safety and tolerability of ambrisentan treatment were compared to placebo treatment. 
Methodology: This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study, designed 
as a 60-week study in 3 periods: a screening period (up to 6 weeks duration), a placebo-controlled 
treatment period (48 weeks duration), and an ambrisentan treatment period (8 weeks duration). 
Eligible subjects were stratified based on the magnitude of their PH (mean pulmonary artery pressure 
[mPAP] ≤ 30 mm Hg or > 30 mm Hg). Subjects were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to ambrisentan or 
placebo. Subjects randomized to ambrisentan treatment received a dose of 5 mg once daily for the 
first 4 weeks and a dose of 10 mg once daily for the next 44 weeks. After the Week 4 visit, 1 blinded 
dose reduction was permitted if a subject was not tolerating study drug. After 48 weeks of blinded 
treatment, all subjects received ambrisentan, blinded to dose, for an additional 8 weeks. Subjects 
initially randomized to ambrisentan received their current dose. Subjects initially randomized to 
placebo received 5 mg once daily for 4 weeks followed by 10 mg once daily for 4 weeks. 
Number of Subjects (Planned and Analysed): 
Planned: 225 subjects; Analysed: 40 subjects (N = 25 in the ambrisentan group and N = 15 in the 
placebo group)  
Diagnosis and Main Criteria for Inclusion: Subjects must have had a diagnosis of IPF based on 
modified American Thoracic Society and European Respiratory Society guidelines. Subjects must have 
had either a historical high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scan showing definite or 
consistent findings for IPF (bibasilar reticular abnormalities with minimal ground glass opacities) or, in 
the absence of definite or consistent findings for IPF by HRCT, definite or probable usual interstitial 
Assessment report  
Page 6/18
 
 
 
  
 
pneumonia confirmed on historical surgical lung biopsy by a core pathologist. Subjects must have also 
had documented PH diagnosed by recent (≤ 24 weeks before screening or during the screening period) 
right heart catheterization with mPAP ≥ 25 mm Hg, pulmonary vascular resistance > 240 dynes·s/cm5, 
and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure or left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of ≤ 15 mm Hg. 
Subjects must have been able to walk a distance of at least 50 meters during 2 consecutive 6-minute 
walk tests performed during the screening period. These tests must have met each of the following 
criteria: (1) the distance walked in these 2 tests could not have varied by more than 15%, (2) subjects 
must have maintained a transcutaneous oxygen (O2) saturation ≥ 88% (with or without supplemental 
O2) during these 2 tests unless receiving at least 6 L/min of supplemental O2, and (3) the 
supplemental O2 flow rate must have been the same for these 2 tests (if applicable). 
Duration of Treatment: 48 weeks blinded, placebo-controlled treatment followed by 8 weeks of 
dose-blinded treatment with ambrisentan. This study was terminated early in anticipation of futility in 
parallel with termination of the ARTEMIS IPF study.  
Criteria for Evaluation of Efficacy: Efficacy endpoints include 6MWD, dyspnoea symptoms (via the 
transitional dyspnoea index), Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival, WHO functional class, and acute IPF 
exacerbations.  
Criteria for Evaluation of Safety:  Safety was evaluated by assessment of adverse events, clinical 
laboratory tests, vital signs, body weight, electrocardiograms, and concomitant medication use. 
Statistical Methods: 
Efficacy: Efficacy endpoints addressed in this abbreviated clinical study report include the primary 
endpoint of change from baseline to Week 16 in 6MWD, change from baseline in dyspnoea symptoms, 
and long-term survival (by Kaplan-Meier analysis). 
Safety: Safety data were summarized using descriptive statistics. Treatment-emergent AEs were 
summarized, defined as events that began or worsened after administration of the first dose of study 
drug. 
2.2.2.  Results 
Study GS-US-231-0101 - ARTEMIS-IPF 
The disposition of subjects is summarized in Table 1. A total of 494 subjects were randomized, 330 
subjects to ambrisentan and 164 subjects to placebo.  
Assessment report  
Page 7/18
 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 1. Disposition of subjects 
Demographic characteristics are presented in Table 2. 
Table 2. Demographic characteristics 
Primary endpoint (time to death or disease progression): A total of 90 subjects (27.4%) treated 
with ambrisentan and 28 subjects (17.2%) treated with placebo experienced death or disease 
progression (HR: 1.74; 95%CI: 1.14 to 2.66; p = 0.010) at week 48 (Table 3).  
Assessment report  
Page 8/18
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Summary of Primary Efficacy Endpoint and Components at Week 48 
Deaths: Twenty-six subjects (7.9%) treated with ambrisentan and 6 subjects (3.7%) treated with 
placebo died (Table 3). Among the deaths in this study, 16% were due to acute exacerbation of IPF 
(placebo: 0, ambrisentan: 5), 13% were due to disease progression (placebo: 0, ambrisentan: 4), 9% 
were due to pneumonia (placebo: 1, ambrisentan: 2), 19% were due to non-respiratory events 
(placebo: 1, ambrisentan: 5), 3% were due to indeterminate causes (placebo: 0, ambrisentan: 1), and 
41% were due to other causes (placebo: 4, ambrisentan: 9). In a secondary analysis through a Cox 
model adjusted for baseline IPF severity (CPI and St. George Respiratory Questionnaire [SGRQ]), the 
risk of ambrisentan-treated subjects meeting the primary endpoint was reduced to 1.42 (95% CI 0.85 
- 2.05) and no longer statistically significant (p=0.108). 
Disease progression: Fifty-five subjects (16.7%) treated with ambrisentan and 19 subjects (11.7%) 
treated with placebo experienced disease progression (Table 3).  
Respiratory hospitalizations: Forty-four subjects (13.4%) treated with ambrisentan and 9 subjects 
(5.5%) treated with placebo experienced respiratory hospitalizations (Table 3). The time to respiratory 
hospitalization was significantly shorter for subjects treated with ambrisentan compared to subjects 
treated with placebo (p=0.007). Among respiratory hospitalizations, 21% were due to acute 
exacerbation of IPF (placebo: 1, ambrisentan: 10), 25% were due to disease progression (placebo: 1, 
ambrisentan: 12), 19% were due to pneumonia (placebo: 1, ambrisentan: 9), 17% were due to 
bronchitis (placebo: 3, ambrisentan: 6), 6% were due to left heart failure (placebo: 0, ambrisentan: 
3), and 13% were due to other causes, which included haemoptysis and coronary artery disease 
(placebo: 0, ambrisentan: 1), pleurisy (placebo: 0, ambrisentan: 1), diffuse alveolar haemorrhage 
(placebo: 0, ambrisentan: 1), right heart failure/cor pulmonale (placebo: 0, ambrisentan: 1), and 
uncharacterizable (placebo: 3, ambrisentan: 0). Acute exacerbations, disease progression, pneumonia, 
and bronchitis together accounted for 84% of the respiratory hospitalizations among subjects who 
received ambrisentan, and 67% among subjects who received placebo. 
Similar trends were noted in terms of death and disease progression and the number of respiratory 
hospitalisations remained significantly higher in the ambrisentan treated group. The presence of 
Assessment report  
Page 9/18
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
pulmonary hypertension (PH) was associated with more severe IPF and lower exercise capacity. There 
remained a higher risk for disease progression and respiratory hospitalization among subjects with PH 
at baseline. There was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups in the proportion 
of subjects who developed PH during the study. 
No statistically significant differences were noted in the secondary endpoints of change from baseline in 
FVC and mean change in DLCO predicted at week 48, 6 minute walk distance, QOL and in all domains 
of SGRQ. 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints: There were no significant differences between treatment groups in 
mean change from baseline at Week 48 in FVC percent predicted, DLCO percent predicted, 6MWT, SF-
36 scales, SGRQ scores, and TDI. 
Pulmonary Hypertension Analysis: Ambrisentan treatment was associated with an increase in risk 
for disease progression among subjects without PH at baseline (HR 1.64, 95% CI 1.04 - 2.60, p = 
0.034, Table 4). There was also a trend toward higher risk for disease progression among subjects 
with PH at baseline (HR 2.42, 95% CI 0.79 - 7.38, p = 0.121). In patients with PH at baseline 
mortality rates were 13% with ambrisentan and 0% with placebo (Table 4). Among subjects without 
baseline PH, ambrisentan treatment was associated with a significant increase in risk for respiratory 
hospitalization (HR 2.72, 95% CI 1.21 - 6.10, p = 0.015, Table 4). There was also a trend toward 
higher risk for respiratory hospitalization among subjects with PH at baseline (HR 2.21, 95% CI 0.45 - 
10.69, p = 0.326). 
Table 4. GS-US-231-0101: Analyses of Disease Progression and Respiratory Hospitalizations by 
Baseline PH 
Efficacy Analysis of Subgroups: A lower percentage of subjects treated with ambrisentan (6%) 
versus placebo (9%) in Latin America experienced respiratory hospitalizations. A lower percentage of 
females ≥ 67 years of age treated with ambrisentan versus placebo showed disease progression (16% 
versus 35%) and respiratory hospitalizations (12% versus 17%). 
Follow-up: 40 patients with IPF and PH were recruited into GS-US-300-0128 [ARTEMIS-PH] and two 
patients with IPF continued into the extension study (GS-US-300-0146). Both studies were 
prematurely discontinued based on the findings in the ARTEMIS-IPF study (GS-US-231-0101). 
Assessment report  
Page 10/18
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Study GS-US-300-0128 - ARTEMIS-PH: 
Subject Disposition and Demographics: A total of 40 subjects were enrolled and randomized to 
ambrisentan or placebo treatment. More than half of the subjects in both treatment groups were 
discontinued prematurely when the sponsor terminated the study. Three subjects in the ambrisentan 
group (12%) and 1 subject in the placebo group (7%) completed the study. Subjects were 
predominantly white (98%) and male (75%); the majority was enrolled at sites in the US (58%). No 
female subject was of childbearing potential. For all subjects, the mean age was 68 years and the 
mean body mass index was 31.2 kg/m2. 
Efficacy Results: For 6MWD, transitional dyspnoea index, and survival time, ambrisentan and placebo 
distributions were similar and did not differ significantly. 
As part of the responses to the RSI the MAH provided a combined analysis of deaths in the 3 IPF 
studies, with a thorough description and analysis of the causes of death for the overall population and 
the population with PH. This analysis showed that in the ARTEMIS-IPF study, the overall death rate 
was 8% with ambrisentan (26 of 329) and 4% with placebo (6 of 163). Most deaths were related to 
respiratory insufficiency. This was accompanied by a significant increase in disease progression and 
respiratory hospitalizations. Approximately 10% of patients had a baseline diagnosis of PH with normal 
wedge pressure (ambrisentan: 32; placebo: 16). Overall, 12.5% (4 of 32 subjects) on ambrisentan 
and 0% (0 of 16 subjects) on placebo who had baseline PH experienced a fatal outcome (table 4, 
above) 
In the ARTEMIS-PH study, all patients had the combination of PH and idiopathic fibrosis. Deaths 
occurred in 4 of 25 patients with ambrisentan (16%) and 2 of 15 patients on placebo (13%). Most 
deaths were related to respiratory insufficiency. This was accompanied by a significant increase in 
SAEs, mainly related to worsening IPF (48% vs. 20%). 
The analysis of causes of death is consistent with a deleterious effect of ambrisentan in patients with 
IPF. The presence of IPF and concomitant pulmonary hypertension in patients on ambrisentan was 
associated to a higher mortality compared with IPF patients without PH (approximately 16% in study 
ARTEMIS-PH and 12.5% in ARTEMIS-IPF with PH versus 7% in ARTEMIS-IPF without PH). The inclusion 
of the contraindication in patients with IPF, with or without PH is therefore considered necessary. 
2.2.3.  Discussion 
Study GS-US-231-0101 (ARTEMIS-IPF) was a phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
multi-center, parallel-group, event-driven study to determine if ambrisentan was effective in delaying 
disease progression and death in subjects with IPF. In addition the study also evaluated the effect of 
ambrisentan on development of PH, QOL and dyspnoea symptoms as well as safety of ambrisentan in 
this patient population. During the titration period subjects received 5 mg of ambrisentan or placebo 
for 14 days followed by 10 mg once daily orally afterwards. This event driven study was expected to 
run for approximately 24-27 months with an 18 month follow up evaluation of the last enrolled subject. 
The primary efficacy endpoint (time to death or disease progression which is defined as a decrease of 
≥ 10% in FVC and ≥ 5% in DLCO or a decrease of ≥ 5% in FVC and ≥ 15% in DLCO and respiratory 
hospitalisations) and their components were analysed using a Cox model adjusting for baseline 
presence or absence of pulmonary hypertension as determined by mean pulmonary arterial pressure 
>25 mmHg on RHC and whether or not SLB (Surgical Lung Biopsy) has been performed to confirm 
diagnosis. All hospitalizations and deaths were evaluated in a blinded manner by an Endpoint 
Adjudications Committee of IPF expert clinicians. 
Assessment report  
Page 11/18
 
 
 
  
 
The study was to be terminated after 278 subjects experienced an initial event meeting the primary 
endpoint (disease progression or death).  
The results from GS-US-231-0101 (ARTEMIS-IPF) show a deleterious effect (rather than a lack of 
efficacy) of ambrisentan in patients with IPF as shown by an increase in the composite of death and/or 
disease progression at 48 weeks (HR: 1.74; 95%CI: 1.14 to 2.66; p = 0.010). The presence of PH was 
associated with a trend towards more severe outcome (Primary outcome HR: 2.42; 95% CI 0.79-
7.38). In patients with PH at baseline mortality rates were 13% with ambrisentan and 0% with placebo 
(Table 4). The combined safety data from the extension study (GS-US-300-0146) and the ARTEMIS-PH 
study (GS-US-300-0128) are consistent with those of the ARTEMIS-IPF study. The data confirms that 
IPF, with or without secondary pulmonary hypertension, should be included among contraindications to 
the use of ambrisentan. 
2.3.  Clinical Safety aspects 
2.3.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Study GS-US-231-0101 - ARTEMIS-IPF  
Extent of Exposure 
Mean duration of exposure was similar between the 2 treatment groups 
Assessment report  
Page 12/18
 
 
 
  
 
 
2.3.2.  Results 
Study GS-US-231-0101 - ARTEMIS-IPF  
Adverse events 
The percentage of subjects experiencing treatment-emergent AEs was similar between the 2 treatment 
groups: 278 subjects (84.5%) treated with ambrisentan and 136 subjects (83.4%) treated with 
placebo  
Study drug-related AEs were experienced by 125 subjects (38.0%) treated with ambrisentan and 39 
subjects (23.9%) treated with placebo. Thirty-two subjects (9.7%) treated with ambrisentan and 9 
subjects (5.5%) treated with placebo discontinued due to AEs. 
Treatment-emergent serious adverse events (SAEs) were experienced by 73 subjects (22.2%) treated 
with ambrisentan and 25 subjects (15.3%) treated with placebo. Study drug-related SAEs were 
experienced by 6 subjects (1.8%) treated with ambrisentan and 6 subjects (3.7%) treated with 
placebo. 
Twenty-six subjects (7.9%) receiving ambrisentan and 6 subjects (3.7%) receiving placebo died on 
study. 
Frequent adverse events 
Peripheral oedema was the most frequently experienced AE. Peripheral oedema was reported by 
significantly more subjects treated with ambrisentan (73 subjects [22.2%]) than treated with placebo 
(14 subjects [8.6%]) (p < 0.001). Upper respiratory tract infection and headache were the next most 
frequently reported AEs. Among AEs experienced by at least 5% of the subjects in either treatment 
group, significantly more subjects treated with ambrisentan compared to placebo reported the 
following: dyspnoea (p = 0.027), IPF (p = 0.009), and dizziness (p = 0.018). Significantly more 
subjects treated with placebo compared to ambrisentan reported respiratory tract infection (p = 
0.043). 
Serious adverse events  
The most frequently reported SAE was IPF, reported by 20 subjects (6.1%) treated with ambrisentan 
and 4 subjects (2.5%) treated with placebo. Dyspnoea and pneumonia were the next most frequently 
reported SAEs. 
 The most frequently reported drug-related SAE was peripheral oedema, experienced by 3 subjects 
(0.9%) treated with ambrisentan and 1 subject (0.6%) treated with placebo. Dyspnoea, increased ALT, 
nasal congestion, and constipation were the next most frequently reported drug-related SAEs. 
Treatment-Emergent AEs leading to study drug discontinuation 
The most frequently reported treatment-emergent AE leading to study drug discontinuation was IPF, 
experienced by 8 subjects (2.4%) treated with ambrisentan and 1 subject (0.6%) treated with 
placebo. Dyspnoea and pneumonia were the next most frequently reported treatment-emergent AEs 
leading to discontinuation of study drug. 
Clinical laboratory evaluations 
Similar percentages of subjects in both treatment groups experienced ≤ 1x ULN changes at Week 48 in 
ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, GGT, and total bilirubin, ranging from 83.2% to 100.0%. In the 
ambrisentan treatment group 1 subject (1.1%) had a value for GGT at Week 48 that was > 8x ULN. 
Assessment report  
Page 13/18
 
 
 
  
 
Deaths 
A total of 32 subjects (6.5%) died on study, 6 of 163 subjects (3.7%) treated with placebo and 26 of 
329 subjects (7.9%) treated with ambrisentan. Three subjects receiving ambrisentan and 1 subject 
receiving placebo had drug-related AEs ongoing at the time of death. An additional 3 enrolled, 
unrandomized subjects died prior to receiving study drug. 
Immediate cause of death in the 26 fatal cases of ambrisentan group were respiratory failure (8), IPF 
(6), respiratory arrest ( 2), pneumonia (2), cardiopulmonary arrest (1), septic shock (1), respiratory 
failure postoperative complication (1), acute myocardial infarctation (2), unknown (1), fatal car 
accident (1) and unknown (1). 
Immediate causes of death of the 6 fatal cases in placebo group were respiratory failure (2), lung 
collapse (1), multiorganic failure (1), pulmonary embolus (1) and pneumonia (1). 
Table 5.6 describes data of analysis of time to death: 
Study GS-US-300-0128 - ARTEMIS-PH: 
Duration of exposure to study drugs was not significantly different between the 2 treatment groups: 
mean duration of exposure was 27.4 weeks in the ambrisentan group and 27.6 weeks in the placebo 
group. During this study, 88% of subjects in the ambrisentan group and 80% of subjects in the 
placebo group experienced at least 1 AE. More subjects in the ambrisentan than the placebo group 
discontinued due to AEs (20% versus 13%). Frequent AEs (> 10%) experienced by subjects in the 
ambrisentan group included dyspnoea (32%), nasal congestion (24%), peripheral oedema (20%), 
headache (20%), constipation (16%), upper respiratory tract infection (16%), hypoxia (16%), IPF 
(16%), pneumonia (12%), and cough (12%). Frequent AEs (> 10%) experienced by subjects in the 
placebo group included dyspnoea (33%), fatigue (27%), peripheral oedema (20%), urinary tract 
infection (20%), back pain (20%), headache (20%), diarrhoea (13%), nausea (13%), respiratory tract 
infection (13%), diverticulitis (13%), lower respiratory tract infection (13%), dizziness (13%), cough 
(13%), and flushing (13%). Adverse events considered related to study drug by the investigator that 
were reported in at least 10% of subjects in the ambrisentan group included nasal congestion and 
dyspnoea (4 subjects [16%] and 3 subjects [12%], respectively). No treatment-related AEs in the 
placebo group were reported in ‡ 10% of subjects. 
A total of 6 subjects died, 4 (16%) in the ambrisentan group and 2 (13%) in the placebo group. A 
greater percentage of subjects in the ambrisentan group had at least 1 SAE compared to the placebo 
Assessment report  
Page 14/18
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
group (48% versus 20%). SAEs reported in more than 1 subject included IPF (3 subjects), and 
dyspnoea, hypoxia, and pneumonia (each in 2 subjects). All deaths and the remaining other SAEs were 
considered unrelated to study treatment. Adverse events led to study drug or study discontinuation in 
5 subjects (20%) in the ambrisentan group and in 2 subjects (13%) in the placebo group. In all but 1 
subject, the AEs leading to discontinuation were SAEs. No subject in the ambrisentan group developed 
elevations in liver function tests > 3 × the upper limit of the normal range (ULN). One subject in the 
placebo group had a value for gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) that was > 3 × ULN but < 5 × 
ULN. In the ambrisentan group, treatment-emergent laboratory abnormalities that occurred in > 1 
subject and at multiple time points were noted as follows: emergent low cholesterol at all time points; 
emergent low haemoglobin at Weeks 4 through 16 and 24; emergent low haematocrit at Weeks 8, 16, 
and 20; and emergent high GGT at Weeks 8, 12, and 20. Other emergent abnormalities were noted in 
single subjects at isolated time points in both treatment groups. Differences between ambrisentan and 
placebo treatment groups in mean values and mean changes from baseline in heart rate, blood 
pressures, and respiratory rate were small in magnitude and not clinically meaningful. There were no 
pregnancies; no female subject was of childbearing potential. 
Safety results from extension study GS-US-300-0146:  
Two subjects from Study GS-US-300-0128 were subsequently enrolled in Study GS-US-300-0146, an 
open-label study designed to assess the long-term safety of ambrisentan in subjects who had 
completed GS-US-300-0128 or GS-US-231-0101. Study GS-US-300-0146 was stopped early due to 
early termination of the 2 prerequisite studies. In the long-term study, all subjects were to begin 
treatment with ambrisentan 5 mg once daily and titrate up to 10 mg once daily after 4 weeks. Because 
only 2 subjects were enrolled into the long-term safety study at the time of termination, an electronic 
database was not created. 
One subject received ambrisentan (5 mg once daily) for approximately 5 weeks. This subject reported 
4 AEs that were considered related to treatment (increase in shortness of breath, lower extremity 
oedema, fatigue, change in WHO functional class to IV) and 5 AEs that were considered unrelated to 
treatment (vomiting, nausea [2 occurrences], left wrist pain, and cough). The second subject received 
ambrisentan (5 mg once daily) for approximately 2 months. This subject had 3 SAEs: dyspnoea, 
hypoxemia, and cardiopulmonary arrest leading to death, none of which was considered related to 
treatment. 
For 6MWD, transitional dyspnoea index, and survival time, ambrisentan and placebo distributions were 
similar and did not differ significantly. These data do not support the efficacy of ambrisentan in 
subjects with IPF and PH. 
2.3.3.  Discussion 
Most of the AEs reported in ambrisentan group in the Study ARTEMIS –IPF submitted are listed in the 
current SmPC of Volibris or are monitored in postmarketing surveillance. No new relevant AEs for 
ambrisentan have been identified during this study. 
As commented in clinical efficacy section, the study Artemis-IPF has shown a higher mortality rate in 
ambrisentan group (at week 48, HR, 2.078, 95% CI  0.750, 5.757 ).  At week 84 the estimated 
percentage of subjects surviving (KM analysis) was 95% in placebo group whereas in ambrisentan 
group was 79%. Only 10% of patients had PH, but in this subgroup of patients the same trend was 
observed being mortality rates 13% (4/32) in ambrisentan group and 0 in placebo group. 
Assessment report  
Page 15/18
 
 
 
  
 
In view of these data the CHMP concluded that idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) with or without 
secondary pulmonary hypertension should be included in the SmPC as a contraindication in section 
4.3. This change has also been in the package leaflet in section 2. 
Furthermore, taking into account the potential off-label use of ambrisentan in this population, the 
CHMP requested that a Direct Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC) be implemented in order 
to inform the physicians about the results of this study (see section 2.6. Direct Healthcare Professional 
Communication). 
2.4.  Risk management plan 
The current version of RMP for ambrisentan already addresses the potential risk of off- label use for 
ambrisentan in the IPF population. The CHMP considers this, together with the update of the PI to add 
a contraindication in this population, and the dissemination of a DHPC, to be sufficient in terms of the 
necessary risk minimisation activities. These changes however will be taken into account in the next 
scheduled update of the RMP due in August 2012.  
2.5.  Changes to the Product Information 
The MAH proposed the following changes to the Product Information (PI), to which the CHMP agreed:  
Summary of Product characteristics 
4.3  Contraindications 
• Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to soya, or to any of the excipients (see sections 4.4 and 
6.1). 
• Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
• Women of child-bearing potential who are not using reliable contraception (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). 
• Lactation (see section 4.6). 
• Severe hepatic impairment (with or without cirrhosis) (see section 4.2). 
• Baseline values of hepatic aminotransferases (aspartate aminotransferases (AST) and/or alanine 
aminotransferases (ALT))>3xULN (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
• Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), with or without secondary pulmonary hypertension (see section 
5.1). 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
[…] 
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis: 
A study of 492 patients (ambrisentan N=329, placebo N=163) with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), 
11% of which had secondary pulmonary hypertension (WHO group 3), has been conducted, but was 
terminated early when it was determined that the primary efficacy endpoint could not be met 
(ARTEMIS-IPF study). Ninety events (27%) of IPF progression (including respiratory hospitalizations) 
or death were observed in the ambrisentan group compared to 28 events (17%) in the placebo group. 
Ambrisentan is therefore contraindicated for patients with IPF with or without secondary pulmonary 
hypertension (see section 4.3). 
Assessment report  
Page 16/18
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet 
2. 
BEFORE YOU TAKE VOLIBRIS 
Don't take Volibris:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
if you are allergic (hypersensitive) to ambrisentan, soya, or any of the other ingredients of 
Volibris (listed in Section 6). 
if you are pregnant, if you are planning to become pregnant, or if you could become 
pregnant because you are not using reliable birth control (contraception). Please read the 
information under ‘Pregnancy and Breast feeding’. 
if you are breast feeding. 
if you have liver disease. Talk to your doctor, who will decide whether Volibris is suitable for 
you. 
if you are under 18 years old 
if you have scarring of the lungs, of unknown cause (idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis).  
2.6.  Direct Healthcare Professional Communication 
The  CHMP  considered  that  a  Direct  Healthcare  Professional  Communication  was  needed  to 
communicate on the fact that: 
  Ambrisentan must not be used in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, 
  A  clinical  study  in  patients  with  IPF  has  shown  higher  rates  of  respiratory  hospitalizations, 
mortality  events,  and  decreases  in  respiratory  function  in  the  ambrisentan  group  versus 
placebo,  
 
Patients  with  IPF  who  may  have  already  been  on  treatment  with  ambrisentan  should  be 
assessed carefully and alternative therapies should be considered. 
The target audience for the DHPC are the following: chest physicians, cardiologists, rheumatologists 
internal Medicine Physicians and hospital pharmacists. 
The final version of this DHPC agreed by the CHMP is provided in Attachment 5 together with the 
Communication Plan.  
The  MAH  should  agree  the  translations  and  local  specificities  of  the  DHPC  with  national  competent 
authorities. The DHPC should be sent once the CHMP opinion has been adopted. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
Ambrisentan, a selective ETA receptor antagonist, has shown to be effective in idiopathic PAH and in 
PAH associated with connective tissue disease.  
Patients with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) are known to express increased levels of ET receptors 
in the lungs. The applicant has tested ambrisentan in patients with IPF in 3 studies: GS-US-231-0101 
(ARTEMIS-IPF), GS-US-300-0128 study (ARTEMIS-PH) and extension study GS-US-300-0146. 
ARTEMIS-IPF was a phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-centre, parallel-
group, event-driven study to determine if ambrisentan was effective in delaying disease progression 
and death in subjects with IPF. The study was to be terminated after 278 subjects experienced an 
initial event meeting the primary endpoint (disease progression or death), showing a deleterious effect 
(rather than a lack of efficacy) of ambrisentan in patients with IPF as shown by an increase in the 
composite of death and/or disease progression at 48 weeks (HR: 1.74; 95%CI: 1.14 to 2.66; p = 
Assessment report  
Page 17/18
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
0.010). The presence of PH was associated with a trend towards more severe outcome (Primary 
outcome HR: 2.42; 95% CI 0.79-7.38). In IPF patients with PH at baseline, the mortality was 13% 
with ambrisentan and 0% with placebo.  
In the ARTEMIS-PH study, all patients had the combination of PH and IPF. Deaths occurred in 4 of 25 
patients with ambrisentan (16%) and 2 of 15 patients on placebo (13%). This was accompanied by a 
significant increase in SAEs, mainly related to worsening IPF (48% vs. 20%).  
Most deaths in both studies were related to respiratory insufficiency and IPF progression. The presence 
of IPF and concomitant pulmonary hypertension in patients on ambrisentan was associated to a higher 
mortality compared with IPF patients without PH (approximately 16% in study ARTEMIS-PH and 12.5% 
in ARTEMIS-IPF with PH versus 7% in ARTEMIS-IPF).  
The combined safety data from the extension study (GS-US-300-0146) and the ARTEMIS-PH study 
(GS-US-300-0128) are consistent with those of the ARTEMIS-IPF study. The clinical data provided 
confirms that ambrisentan has a deleterious effect on IPF. In this regard, the CHMP has concluded that 
IPF, with or without secondary pulmonary hypertension, has to be included among contraindications to 
the use of ambrisentan, and that a DHCP is needed to inform physicians about this issue. 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
Variation(s) accepted 
Type 
C.I.4 
Variations related to significant modifications of the SPC 
II 
due in particular to new quality, pre-clinical, clinical or 
pharmacovigilance data 
Update of sections 4.3 and 5.1 of the SmPC after the assessment of the 7th PSUR, in order to add a 
contraindication in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) with or without secondary pulmonary 
hypertension, and to add information about a clinical study in patients with IPF. The package leaflet 
has been updated accordingly. 
The variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
Page 18/18
 
 
 
  
 
 
