Part VI:  Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Human Coagulation Factor VIII/VWF Complex 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Human coagulation FVIII/VWF 
Complex. The RMP details important risks of Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex, 
shows how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about 
Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and 
its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex should be read in 
the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Human 
coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex's RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex is authorized for prophylaxis and treatment of 
haemorrhage or prevention and treatment of surgical bleeding in patients with Willebrand 
disease (VWD), when desmopressin (DDAVP) treatment alone is ineffective or 
contraindicated and for prophylaxis and treatment of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
(congenital FVIII deficiency) (see SmPC in Annex 2 for the full indication). It contains 
Human Coagulation Factor VIII (FVIII)/Von Willebrand Factor (VWF) Complex as the 
active substance and it is given by injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex’s 
benefits can be found in Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex’s EPAR, including in its 
plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/assessment-report/voncento-epar-public-
assessment-report_en.pdf.  
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or 
further characterize the risks  
Important risks of Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex, together with measures to 
minimize such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Human coagulation 
FVIII/VWF Complex's risks, are outlined below. 
•  Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analyzed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Human coagulation VIII/VWF 
Complex is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal 
product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
•  Development of FVIII/VWF inhibitors 
•  Embolic and thrombotic events 
Important potential risks 
•  Transmission of infectious agents 
Missing information 
Not applicable 
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
Important Identified Risk: Development of FVIII/VWF inhibitors 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Data obtained from literature and the company safety database.   
An important identified risk associated with FVIII/VWF replacement 
therapy is the development of inhibitors (ie, neutralizing antibodies) 
against FVIII or VWF, rendering treatment with antihemophilic factors 
less effective or ineffective. This risk is recognized as being 
significantly higher in previously untreated patients (PUPs). Inhibitors 
to FVIII occur in approximately 30% of PUPs with hemophilia A 
(Hashemi et al, 2015). A recent publication (Peyvandi et al, 2016) 
reported inhibitor development in 26.8% of PUPs treated with pdFVIII 
within the first 50 EDs. Of note, the clinical relevance of inhibitor 
development over-all depends on the titer of the inhibitor, with low titer 
inhibitors (0.6 to < 5 Bethesda Unit (BU)/mL) which are transiently 
present or remain consistently low titer posing less of a risk of 
insufficient clinical response than high titer inhibitors (≥ 5 BU/mL) 
(EMA PRAC, Referral under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC Factor 
VIII 2017). 
Risk factors for FVIII inhibitor formation include both patient and 
treatment related factors (Coppola et al, 2010; Chambost, 2010): 
Patient related: 
-  Ethnic group (African ancestry) 
-  FVIII gene mutations 
-  Family history of inhibitors 
-  Major histocompatibility complex genotype (human leukocyte 
antigen class I type) 
-  Polymorphisms of immune response genes (interleukin-10, tumor 
necrosis factor, cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated protein 4) 
-  Recent pro-inflammatory conditions such as bleeds, infections, 
vaccinations, etc., called danger signals 
Treatment Related: 
-  Number of FVIII exposure days - Highest risk is within the first 
50 exposures to FVIII (average age of 1 to 2 years after 
9 to 12 treatments). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Identified Risk: Development of FVIII/VWF inhibitors 
-  Severity of disease - Severe haemophilia A population are more at 
risk of inhibitor development than mild or moderate haemophilia. 
Intensive exposure and surgical procedures due to administration of 
high amounts of FVIII concentrates. 
- 
-  Risk factors for development of anti-VWF alloantibodies include 
Type 3 VWD patients who receive multiple transfusions (Federici, 
2009; Mannucci, 2001). 
Ethnicity 
The proportion of hemophilia A patients developing FVIII inhibitors 
was reported in literature in a range of 13.3 to 27.4% among 
Caucasians, 1.0 to 55.6% among black patients and 24.5 to 27.9% 
among Hispanics (Astermark et al, 2001; Carpenter et al, 2012; 
Dimichele, 2002; Gouw et al, 2007; Miller et al, 2012). 
In studies reporting comparative analysis, the results have shown that 
black and Hispanic patients have an increased risk for inhibitors 
compared to Caucasians, although not all studies have been statistically 
significant and many burdened with small numbers (Astermark et al, 
2001; Carpenter et al, 2012; Dimichele, 2002; Gouw et al, 2007, 
Kempton et al, 2010; Mclean et al, 2011; Ragni et al, 2009). 
The odds ratio for black vs Caucasians have been reported at 1.6 
(95% CI 1.3 to 1.9) and 1.9 (95% CI 0.6 to 6.1). The odds ratio for 
Hispanic vs Caucasian people has been estimated at 1.4 (95% CI 1.1 to 
1.7) and noncaucasian vs caucasian at 5.8 (95% CI 1.7 to 19.9) 
(Carpenter et al, 2012; Gouw et al, 2007; Mclean et al, 2011). Reports 
on Asian patients as a separate group is scarce. One study was found 
that reported a 7% inhibitor proportion among Asians, which translated 
into an odds ratio of 0.3 (95% CI 0.4 to 2.4) compared to white patients 
(Gouw et al, 2007; Mclean et al, 2011).  
Risk factors for development of anti-VWF alloantibodies include Type 
3 VWD patients who receive multiple transfusions (Federici, 2009; 
Mannucci, 2001). 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
SmPC section 4.4 and 4.8 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None  
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Participation in EUHASS 
 
Important Identified Risk: Embolic and thrombotic events 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Data obtained from literature and the company safety database. 
Thromboembolic events are a known class effect of FVIII-VWF plasma 
derived products. There have been reported cases with Human 
coagulation FVIII/VWF complex which provided evidence of a causal 
association. The evidence sources indicate that thromboembolic events 
have impact on patients in terms of severity/seriousness. Although these 
events primarily occur in patients with underlying risk factors, embolic 
and thrombotic events are considered an important identified risk for 
Human coagulation FVIII/VWF complex. 
Patients with VWD or haemophilia A who are receiving high levels of 
FVIII/VWF concentrate. 
Additional risks factors for embolic and thrombotic events in the 
targeted population are the same in the general population. 
Patients with Haemophilia and VWD now have a better long term 
survival, therefore the risks are the same as in the general population 
and include (Geerts et al, 2008; Previtali et al, 2011): 
Immobilization 
Venous Thrombosis risks: 
-  Pregnancy 
-  Hormone replacement therapy 
-  Surgery 
- 
-  Trauma 
-  Cancer 
Arterial thrombosis risks: 
-  Smoking 
-  Hypertension 
-  Hypercholesterolaemia 
-  Peripheral vascular disease 
-  Diabetes 
-  Obesity 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC section 4.4, 4.8 and 4.9 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Risk minimization measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Participation in EUHASS 
 
Important Potential Risk: Transmission of infectious agents 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Data obtained from literature and the company safety database. 
The potential for transmitting infectious agents is a known class effect 
of all blood/plasma-driven products. There have been reported cases 
with Human coagulation FVIII/VWF complex; none of them provided 
evidence of confirmed cases of transmission of infectious agents. For 
these reasons, potential for transmission of infectious agents is 
considered an important potential risk for Human coagulation 
FVIII/VWF complex. The evidence sources indicate that the potential 
for transmission of infectious agents has an impact on patients in terms 
of severity/seriousness. Potential for transmission of infectious agents is 
considered an important potential risk for Human coagulation 
FVIII/VWF complex. 
Infectious agents such as HCV and HIV are transmitted by (Shepard et 
al, 2005; UNAIDS report, 2010): 
-  Exposure to other blood products 
IV drug abuse 
- 
-  Sexual contact 
-  Maternal-infant exposure 
Parvovirus B19 is a common infectious pathogen in humans, and is 
acquired during childhood. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Participation in EUHASS 
II.C 
Post-authorization development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligations for Human coagulation FVIII/VWF Complex.  
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
Haemophilia Network Registry: EUHASS 
Purpose of the study: CSL Behring participates in this ongoing pharmacovigilance program 
monitoring the safety of treatments for people with inherited bleeding disorders in Europe to 
obtain long-term post-marketing safety data (including hypersensitivity and inhibitor 
development). 
 
