ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Voraxaze 1,000 units powder for solution for injection. 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
After reconstitution with 1 mL of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride solution, each vial contains a nominal 
1,000 units of glucarpidase*. 
*Produced in Escherichia coli cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
White to off-white powder for solution for injection.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Voraxaze is indicated to reduce toxic plasma methotrexate concentration in adults and children (aged 
28 days and older) with delayed methotrexate elimination or at risk of methotrexate toxicity. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Glucarpidase is intended for use under medical supervision. 
In  order  to  take  into  account  all  MTX  doses  and  infusion  durations that  could  be  administered  to  a 
patient, it is recommended to utilise local treatment protocols or guidelines if available, to determine 
when glucarpidase should be administered. 
Recommendations  for  intervention  with  glucarpidase  are  considered  when  plasma  MTX  levels  are 
greater than 2 standard deviations of the mean expected MTX excretion curve. Also, administration of 
glucarpidase should optimally occur within 60 hours from the start of the HDMTX infusion, because 
life‐threatening toxicities may not be preventable beyond this time point.  Clinical data however show 
that glucarpidase continues to be effective beyond this time window. 
Recommendations for intervention with glucarpidase are detailed below: 
MTX Dose: 
Infusion duration: 
Hours following start of MTX infusion 
≤ 1 g/m2 
Over 36-42 hours 
Threshold plasma MTX concentration (µM) 
1-8 g/m2 
Over 24 hours 
8-12 g/m2 
Over ≤ 6 hours 
24 hours 
36 hours 
42 hours 
48 hours 
- 
- 
- 
≥ 5 
*start supportive care when  ≥ 120 µM. 
≥ 50 
≥ 30 
≥ 10 
≥ 5 
-* 
≥ 30 
≥ 10 
≥ 5 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a further guide for patients receiving short infusion MTX regimens, glucarpidase administration may 
be considered as detailed below: 
MTX Dose: 
Hours following start of MTX infusion 
24 hours 
36 hours 
48 hours 
Posology 
3-3.5 g/m2 
Threshold plasma MTX concentration (µM) 
≥ 20 
5 g/m2 
- 
- 
≥ 5 
≥ 10 
≥ 6 
The  recommended  dose  is  a  single  dose  of  50 Units  per  kilogram  (kg)  by  bolus  intravenous  (IV) 
injection over 5 minutes.  
Once the diagnosis of delayed methotrexate (MTX) elimination or risk for MTX toxicity is 
established, glucarpidase should be administered without delay; for patients with delayed MTX 
elimination the optimal time window for administration is within 48–60 hours from the start of the 
high dose MTX infusion.  Folinic acid, also known as leucovorin,  is a competitive substrate of 
glucarpidase that may compete for the MTX binding sites (see also Section 4.5). It is therefore 
recommended that folinic acid should not be administered within the 2 hours before or after 
glucarpidase administration to minimise any potential interaction.  
Intracellular MTX will continue to inhibit reduction of folate to its active form following glucarpidase 
administration thus folinic acid will continue to be needed no earlier than 2 hours post glucarpidase 
administration in order to replenish the intracellular source of biologically active folate.  (see also 
Section 4.4) 
Specific populations 
Patients with renal impairment 
A study of the pharmacokinetics of glucarpidase in the absence of MTX in 4 subjects with severe renal 
impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min) showed that the mean pharmacokinetic parameters were similar to 
those observed in healthy subjects.  
On this basis, no dose adjustment of glucarpidase is recommended for patients with renal impairment.  
Paediatric population 
No dose adjustment is required for the paediatric population. See section 4.4.  
Method of administration  
Reconstitute each vial of Voraxaze 1,000 units with 1 mL of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride solution 
before use.  Reconstitution should take place immediately prior to use (do not further dilute). It should 
be administered intravenously by bolus intravenous injection over 5 minutes. 
After reconstitution with 1 mL of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride solution each 1 mL will contain 
1,000 units of glucarpidase.  
A syringe suitable for withdrawing small volumes should be used to remove the solution from the 
vials. It may not always be possible to withdraw a full 1 mL from the vial but removal of at least 
0.90 mL from the vial will provide an adequate amount of glucarpidase for dosing purposes. 
Flush intravenous line before and after administration. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the tradename and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Paediatric population 
No formal evaluation of the effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of glucarpidase has been performed.  
No data are available in children aged less than 28 days.  
It is important to measure baseline plasma MTX concentations and renal function and to continue to 
monitor these throughout treatment with high dose MTX therapy, as described below.  
A high performance chromatography (HPLC) method is recommended for measuring MTX 
concentrations following glucarpidase administration. Current immunoassays are unreliable for 
samples collected following glucarpidase administration due to 4-deoxy-4-amino-N10-methylpteroic 
acid (DAMPA), an inactive metabolite of MTX formed following glucarpidase administration, 
interfering with the measurement of MTX concentration. This interference results in an overestimation 
of the MTX concentration. The effect of DAMPA interference will decline over time as DAMPA is 
eliminated.  
DAMPA concentrations in patients treated with glucarpidase fell within a mean half-life of 8.6 hours. 
In the majority of patients DAMPA concentrations had fallen to below 1 µmol/l within 48 hours of 
administration of glucarpidase. In clinical studies, DAMPA concentrations above 1 µmol/L have been 
observed beyond 3 days in a small minority (≤3%) of patients.   
In the absence of more specific HPLC assay it is recommended that the dose of folinic acid used in a 
48 hour-period after glucarpidase should be based on the MTX concentration from a sample taken 
prior to glucarpidase administration. Within 48 hours after glucarpidase administration MTX 
concentrations determined by immunoassay may not be reliably used to monitor for rebound and 
confirmatory HPLC data should be considered.  
Over 48 hours after glucarpidase administration immunoassay results will be reliable in the majority of 
patients and so can be used to adjust the folinic acid dose or monitor for rebound. In clinical studies, 
~9% patients with baseline MTX concentration ≥ 50µmol/l had DAMPA levels that persisted above 1 
µmol/l beyond 4 days.  
Routine monitoring of plasma MTX concentrations should be continued in accordance with local 
guidelines.  
Glucarpidase does not reverse pre-existing renal damage or renal failure that occurs as a consequence 
of MTX administration, but instead removes MTX to reduce the risk of sustaining further renal 
toxicity. As such, other supportive care, including hydration and alkalinisation of the urine, should be 
started at the onset of MTX administration and continued in accordance with local treatment 
guidelines.  
Allergic type hypersensitivity reactions are possible following adminstration of glucarpidase see 
section 4.8. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Glucarpidase can decrease folinic acid concentration, which may decrease the effect of folinic acid 
rescue unless it is dosed as recommended (see section 4.2).  
Glucarpidase may also reduce the concentrations of other folate analogs or folate analog metabolic 
inhibitors. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of glucarpidase in pregnant women. Glucarpidase is administered in 
combination with MTX, which is contraindicated in pregnancy. As use of MTX, a genotoxic and 
teratogenic agent, is a prerequisite for the use of glucarpidase, the medicinal product is not thought to 
present an additional risk to patients already receiving MTX. Reproductive studies of glucarpidase in 
animals were not performed. It is unknown whether glucarpidase causes harmful effects during 
pregnancy and/or on the foetus/newborn child or whether it can affect reproductive capacity.  
Glucarpidase should only be given to a pregnant woman if clearly needed. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether glucarpidase/metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding 
or to discontinue/abstain from glucarpidase therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding 
for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.  
Fertility 
There is no or limited amount of data on the impact of glucarpidase on human fertility. Fertility studies 
in animals were not performed. It is unknown whether glucarpidase affects fertility.  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
  Glucarpidase has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The  most  frequent  related  adverse  reactions  were  burning  sensation  (<1%),  headache  (<1%), 
paraesthesia (2%), flushing (2%), feeling hot (<1%).   
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Table  1  gives  the  adverse  reactions  observed  from  the  combination  of  pooled  clinical  study  data 
(489 patients) and reported adverse reactions during the Post Marketing period. The adverse reactions 
are presented by system organ class and frequency categories defined using the following convention: 
very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to 
<1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000). Within each frequency grouping undesirable effects are presented in 
order of decreasing seriousness  
Table 1  Adverse reactions reported for glucarpidase 
System organ class 
Immune system disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Frequency 
Rare 
Very Rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very Rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Rare 
Rare 
Adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylactic reaction 
Burning sensation, Headache, Paraesthesia 
Hypoaesthesia, Somnolence, Tremor 
Tachycardia 
Flushing 
Hypotension 
Pleural effusion, Throat tightness 
Abdominal pain upper, Diarrhoea, Nausea, 
Vomiting 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Rare 
Very Rare 
Very Rare 
Pruritus, Rash 
Drug eruption, Skin reaction 
Crystalluria* 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very Rare 
*Crystalluria is the preferred term; the adverse reaction refers to DAMPA crystalluria 
Feeling hot 
Pyrexia, Rebound effect 
Infusion site reaction 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
As with any intravenous protein product, infusion-related reactions or hypersensitivity reactions are 
possible.  
It is recommended that patients are monitored for signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and an acute 
allergic reaction. Medical support must be readily available when glucarpidase is administered. 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is potential for immunogenicity. 205 patients who received one 
(n=176), 2 (n=27), or 3 (n=2) doses of glucarpidase were evaluated for anti-glucarpidase antibodies. 
Forty-three of these 205 patients (21%) had detectable anti-glucarpidase antibodies following 
administration, of which 32 received 1 dose and 11 received 2 or 3 doses of glucarpidase. Antibody 
titers were determined using a bridging enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for 
anti- glucarpidase antibodies.  Neutralizing antibodies were detected in 22 of the 43 patients who 
tested positive for anti-glucarpidase binding antibodies.  
Paediatric population 
The incidence of adverse events related to glucarpidase did not differ between paediatric and adult 
patients.   
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The safety profile of the nine patients who have received the highest doses of Voraxaze in clinical 
studies (single dose range of 90.9 – 188.7 U/kg and/or cumulative dose range of 150.0 – 201.8 U/kg) 
was similar to the safety profile of all patients. 
In case of overdose, it is recommended to stop glucarpidase dosing, patients should be observed and 
appropriate supportive care should be provided. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Detoxifying agent for antineoplastic treatment, ATC code: V03AF09. 
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic effects 
Glucarpidase is a recombinant bacterial enzyme that hydrolyses the carboxyl-terminal glutamate 
residue from folic acid and structurally related molecules such asMTX. Glucarpidase converts MTX to 
its inactive metabolites DAMPA and glutamate. Because both DAMPA and glutamate are metabolised 
by the liver, glucarpidase provides an alternative route for MTX elimination in patients with renal 
dysfunction during high-dose MTX treatment.   
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to its large molecular size, glucarpidase does not cross the cellular membrane and therefore does 
not counteract the intracellular antineoplastic effects of high-dose MTX.  
Clinical efficacy  
The efficacy of glucarpidase has been evaluated in four open-label multi-center, compassionate use, 
single arm, open label studies in patients with delayed MTX elimination due to renal dysfunction. The 
primary endpoint in the clinical studies was referred to as a clinically important reduction (CIR) in 
MTX concentration and was based on central MTX HPLC data. A patient was considered to have 
achieved a CIR if all central MTX HPLC plasma concentrations after the first dose of glucarpidase 
were ≤1 µmol/L.  
In Study 001, 44 male and female patients were in the Safety population (median age 53.0; range 10 – 
78 years) and received a median dose of 50 U/kg (range 9.80 to 58.14 U/kg). Of the 28 patients with 
central HPLC data, 85.7% (95% CI: 68.5% to 94.3%) achieved a CIR. 
In Study 002, 214 male and female patients were in the Safety population (median age 17.0; range 0 - 
82 years) and received a median dose of 49.23 U/kg (range 10.87 to 63.73 U/kg). Of the 84 patients 
with central HPLC data, 54.8% (95% CI: 44.2% to 65.0%) achieved a CIR. 
In Study 003, 69 male and female patients were in the Safety population (median age 15.0; range 0 - 
71 years) and received a median dose of 50 U/kg (range 16.64 to 100 U/kg). Of the 30 patients with 
central HPLC data, 66.7% (95% CI: 48.8% to 80.8%) achieved a CIR. 
In Study 006, 149 male and female patients were in the Safety population (median age 18.0; range 10 
– 78 years) and received a median dose of 48.73 U/kg (range 17.86 to 98.04 U/kg). Of the 27 patients 
with central HPLC data, 51.9% (95% CI: 34.0% to 69.3%) achieved a CIR. 
A total of 169 patients were included in the pooled central MTX HPLC population and received a 
median initial dose of 50 Units/kg (range 11 to 60 Units/kg). A CIR was achieved by 61.5% (95% CI: 
54.0% to 68.5%) of patients in the central MTX HPLC population that was sustained for up to 8 days. 
Amedian reduction of > 98% in MTX concentration occurred within 15 minutes following 
glucarpidase administration. 
Rebound (defined as MTX concentration increase of at least 1 μmol/L and at least two times the post-
glucarpidase nadir) occurred in 19.4% of patients in the central MTX HPLC population. Overall half 
of the patients with rebound had a maximum absolute increase in MTX concentration of between 1 
and 2 µmol/L, and only 1 patient had an increase of >10 µmol/L (this patient had a pre-glucarpidase 
MTX concentration of 165.86 µmol/L and received a glucarpidase dose of 10.53 U/kg). Of the 4 
patients who had rebound after their first glucarpidase dose and received a second glucarpidase dose, 
there was a median reduction of MTX concentration of 84% and 2 achieved a CIR.  
Of the 410 patients in the pooled renal evaluable population (patients who had at least one post-
glucarpidase renal function assessment) who developed serum creatinine (sCr) common toxicity 
criteria grade ≥2 at pre-glucarpidase baseline, 262 (63.9%) recovered to grade 0 or 1. In the renal 
evaluable population there was a 3.5-fold increase in mean sCr concentration from pre-MTX to pre-
glucarpidase baseline (0.79mg/dL to 2.79 mg/dL). After administration of glucarpidase, sCr continued 
to rise (mean increase of 0.24 mg/dL over three days), then began to decrease. The mean sCr value at 
day 22 was 1.27 mg/dL. For the 258 patients for whom days to recovery could be calculated, the 
median time to recovery was 12.5 days (range 1–213 days).  
Paediatric population 
The pooled clinical safety database for glucarpidase includes data for 232 patients up to 17 years of 
age. Within the central MTX HPLC population 0% (0/1) patient aged ≥28 days to <2 years (Infant 
Subgroup), 31.3% (5/16) patients aged ≥2 to <12 years (Child Subgroup) and 49.1% 27/55 patients 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aged ≥12 to <18 years of age achieved a CIR. A median reduction of ≥ 95% in MTX concentration 
occurred within 15 minutes following glucarpidase administration in all paediatric subgroups. 
This medicinal product has been authorised under “Exceptional Circumstances”. This means that due 
to the rarity of the disease and for ethical reasons it has not been possible to obtain complete 
information on this medicinal product. The European Medicines Agency will review any new 
information which may become available every year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of glucarpidase in the absence of MTX were studied in 8 healthy subjects 
following glucarpidase 50 Units/kg administered as an intravenous injection over 5 minutes. Serum 
glucarpidase activity levels were measured by an enzymatic assay and serum total glucarpidase 
concentrations were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The mean maximum 
serum concentration (Cmax) was 3.3 μg/mL and the mean area under the curve (AUC0-INF) was 
23.3 μg·h/mL. The pharmacokinetic parameters derived from the serum total glucarpidase 
concentrations were similar to those generated by serum glucarpidase activity levels except for 
elimination half-life as described below. 
A clinically relevant accumulation of glucarpidase after a repeat injection within a MTX cycle has not 
been observed. 
Distribution 
The mean volume of distribution (Vd) was 3.55 L.  
Biotransformation 
The product is an enzyme, and therefore a protein. The metabolism of such products entails the 
degradation to small peptides and individual amino acids and therefore, the metabolic pathways are 
generally understood. Classical biotransformation studies are therefore not required and have not been 
conducted. 
The ability of the main metabolite produced by the action of glucarpidase on MTX (DAMPA) to 
induce or inhibit CYP450 metabolising isoenzymes has been investigated in vitro, which revealed 
possible enzyme induction with CYP1A2 and CYP2C9. Modest induction would only be expected in a 
minority of patients who have the highest DAMPA exposure. 
Elimination 
Serum glucarpidase activity levels declined with a mean elimination half-life (t1/2) of 5.6 hours and 
serum total glucarpidase concentration declined with a mean t1/2 of 9 hours. The mean systemic 
clearance (CL) was 7.5 mL/min.  
Specific populations 
Patients with renal impairment 
A study of the pharmacokinetics of glucarpidase in the absence of MTX in 4 subjects with severe renal 
impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min) showed that the mean pharmacokinetic parameters were similar to 
those observed in healthy subjects.  
On this basis, no dose adjustment of glucarpidase is recommended for patients with renal impairment.  
Paediatric population 
No formal evaluation of the effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of glucarpidase has been performed.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Generally, effects in non-clinical studies were observed at exposures considered sufficiently in excess 
of the maximum human exposure indicating little relevance to clinical use. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The carcinogenic, genotoxic and reproductive toxicity potential of glucarpidase have not been studied.  
Decreased platelets were reported in a 14 day dog study and intravenous human equivalent doses of 
278 and 1389 Units/kg were associated with increasing severe dose related toxicity which resulted in 
deaths or premature euthanasia.   
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Lactose 
Trometamol 
Zinc acetate dihydrate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products (see section 6.6). 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vials: 5 years 
Chemical and physical in-use stability following reconstitution has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 
2-8ºC. From a microbiological point of view, Voraxaze should be used immediately after 
reconstitution. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8 °C, unless 
reconstitution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). 
Do not freeze.  
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
3 mL type 1 glass vials (Ph Eur) with a bromobutyl stopper and standard blue flip off seal.   
Pack size of 1 vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Each vial should be reconstituted with 1 mL of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride solution. Reconstitution 
should take place immediately prior to use (do not further dilute). It should be administered 
intravenously by bolus intravenous injection over 5 minutes. 
After reconstitution with 1 mL of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride solution each 1 mL will contain 
1,000 units of glucarpidase. A syringe suitable for withdrawing small volumes should be used to 
remove the solution from the vials. It may not always be possible to withdraw a full 1 mL from the 
vial but removal of at least 0.90 mL from the vial will provide an adequate amount of glucarpidase for 
dosing purposes. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
SERB SAS 
40 Avenue George V 
75008 Paris 
France 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1586/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  11 January 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
Kaneka Eurogentec S.A 
Liege Science Park 
Rue du Bois Saint Jean 14 
4102 Seraign 
Belgium 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Almac Pharma Services Limited 
Seagoe Industrial Estate, 
Portadown, 
Craigavon, 
BT63 5UA, UK (Northern Ireland) 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product 
within 6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
In order to further characterise the efficacy and safety of glucarpidase 
indicated to reduce toxic plasma methotrexate concentration in adults 
and children (aged 28 days and older) with delayed methotrexate 
elimination or at risk of methotrexate toxicity, the MAH should 
conduct and submit the results of a study from a glucarpidase patient 
registry to be conducted on patients with impaired methotrexate 
clearance according to an agreed protocol. 
Due date 
Annual updates to be 
submitted at the time of 
the annual 
reassessment. 
13 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Voraxaze 1,000 units powder for solution for injection 
Glucarpidase 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 1,000 units of glucarpidase produced in Escherichia coli cells by recombinant DNA 
technology. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains also : lactose, trometamol and zinc acetate dihydrate 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for injection 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use 
Reconstitue with 1 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml solution for injection immediately prior to use (do not 
further dilute) 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
SERB SAS, 40 Avenue George V, 75008 Paris, France 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1586/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
<Justification for not including Braille accepted.> 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
<2D barcode carrying the unique identifier to be included.> 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
Vial 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Voraxaze 1,000 units powder for injection 
Glucarpidase 
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
after reconstitution: 1,000 units in 1 mL  
6. 
OTHER 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Voraxaze 1000 units powder for solution for injection 
glucarpidase 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Voraxaze is and what it is used for  
2.  What you or your child need to know before you are given Voraxaze  
3.  How Voraxaze will be given 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Voraxaze  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Voraxaze is and what it is used for 
The active substance in this medicine is glucarpidase, an enzyme that breaks down the cancer 
medicine methotrexate.     
Voraxaze  is used  in  adults  and  children  older than  28  days  if they  are  being  given  methotrexate  for 
cancer treatment but their body is not able to get rid of the methotrexate fast enough and they are at risk 
of  severe  side  effects.  The  medicine  breaks  down  the  methotrexate  in  the  bloodstream,  reducing 
methotrexate levels and so helping to control side effects and stop them worsening. It works very quickly 
and can reduce the amount of methotrexate in the bloodstream by more than 90% in 15 minutes. The 
medicine does not enter cells, so it does not prevent any methotrexate that has already entered the cancer 
cells from working to treat the cancer. 
2.  What you or your child need to know before you are given Voraxaze  
Do not take Voraxaze 
- 
if you are allergic to glucarpidase or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before you are given Voraxaze. 
You will be given this medicine as soon as possible after your doctor decides you need it in order to 
prevent serious side effects from methotrexate.  
This medicine alone cannot prevent or stop all of the side effects of high-dose methotrexate, and you 
will also be given other treatments and supportive care as required. 
It is important that your doctor knows how much methotrexate is in your blood and how well your 
kidneys are working. You will have tests to check this before and after treatment with this medicine. 
Children and adolescents 
This medicine can be given to children from 28 days of age. The safety and efficacy of this medicine 
in children aged less than 28 days has not been established.  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Voraxaze 
This medicine can affect the amount of folinic acid in your body, another product that you may be 
given by your doctor to reduce methotrexate toxicity. As a precaution, your doctor will adjust the 
timing of your folinic acid and doses of Voraxaze to ensure that there is at least 2 hours between the 
two medicines.  Your doctor will restart folinic acid administration no earlier than 2 hours after 
glucarpidase administration. 
No other interactions between this and other medicines have been reported during clinical studies. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or breastfeeding or you are planning to have a baby. 
As this medicine is only used in people who have already been given methotrexate, which is known to 
cause harmful effects to a developing baby, no studies have been done to determine whether this 
medicine alone can cause harmful effects to a developing baby during pregnancy or whether it is 
excreted in breast milk.  
Driving and using machines 
This medicine has no or negligible effect on the ability to drive or use machines 
3. 
How this medicine will be given 
This medicine is given as an injection into a vein, over a 5-minute period. Your doctor will work out the 
right  dose  for  you,  based on your  weight.  The  recommended  dose  is  50 Units  per  kilogram  of  body 
weight.  
As the medicine is given under medical supervision, it is unlikely that you will be given too much. If 
you think you have been given more than you should, talk to your doctor or nurse. 
You will be monitored for changes in the amount of methotrexate in your blood after treatment with 
this medicine. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor or one of the medical staff immediately if you experience any of the following: 
•  Swelling of the throat, tightness in the chest, difficulty breathing 
•  Swelling of the hands, feet, face, lips or mouth 
•  Rash, with or without flushing and swelling of the face 
•  Shaking or chills without fever  
If you have any of the symptoms listed above, you may be having a serious allergic reaction and may 
need urgent medical attention. These side effects (allergic reactions) are very rare and if they do occur, 
usually occur on the day of treatment. 
You should tell your doctor or one of the medical staff as soon as possible if you experience any of the 
following side effects which are also rare but have been reported during treatment with this medicine: 
•  Fever 
•  Headache 
•  A tingling or pricking sensation on the skin (“pins and needles”) 
•  A burning sensation on the skin 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you experience any other side effects not mentioned in this leaflet, inform your doctor or one of the 
medical staff. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly (see details below). By reporting side effects you can 
help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Voraxaze 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
You will be given this medicine under medical supervision. It is stored between 2 and 8°C and should 
not be stored in a freezer. 
Use by Date: This medicine will not be used after the expiry date stated on the vial and outer carton.  
The pharmacist will check this before it is dispensed. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Voraxaze contains  
The active substance is glucarpidase. 
Voraxaze contains Lactose, Trometamol, and Zinc acetate dihydrate 
What Voraxaze looks like and contents of the pack 
Each pack contains one vial which is a white or off-white lyophilised powder, to be reconstituted with 
1 mL of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride solution (not included). 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Name and address of the marketing authorisation holder 
SERB SAS 
40 Avenue George V 
75008 Paris 
France 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Almac Pharma Services Limited 
Seagoe Industrial Estate, 
Portadown, 
Craigavon, 
BT63 5UA, UK (Northern Ireland) 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each vial of Voraxaze should be reconstituted with 1 mL of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride solution. 
Reconstitution should take place immediately prior to use (do not further dilute). It should be 
administered intravenously by bolus intravenous injection over 5 minutes. 
After reconstitution with 1 mL of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride solution each 1 mL will contain 
1,000 Units of glucarpidase. A syringe suitable for withdrawing small volumes should be used to 
remove the solution from the vials. It may not always be possible to withdraw a full 1 mL from the 
vial but removal of at least 0.90 mL from the vial will provide an adequate amount of glucarpidase for 
dosing purposes. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
23 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX IV 
CONCLUSIONS ON THE GRANTING OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
UNDER EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES PRESENTED BY THE EUROPEAN 
MEDICINES AGENCY 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions presented by the European Medicines Agency on: 
•  Marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances 
The CHMP having considered the application is of the opinion that the risk-benefit balance is 
favourable to recommend the granting of the marketing authorisation under exceptional 
circumstances as further explained in the European Public Assessment Report. 
25 
 
