11 January 2022 
EMA/OD/0000042598 
EMADOC-1700519818-746434 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Voraxaze (glucarpidase) 
Adjunctive treatment in patients at risk of methotrexate toxicity 
EU/3/02/128 
Sponsor: Serb 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 15 November 2021 ...................................... 10 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000042598 
Page 2/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance 
Carboxypeptidase G2 
Other name 
-- 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Glucarpidase 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Voraxaze 
Adjunctive treatment in patients at risk of 
methotrexate toxicity 
Serb  
40 Avenue George V  
75008 Paris  
France 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion 
EC decision 
EC registration number  
Post-designation procedural history 
Enact Pharma plc  
13 December 2002 
3 February 2003 
EU/3/02/128 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from Enact Pharma plc to Protherics Plc – EC 
decision of 15 December 2004 
Sponsor’s name change  
Name change from Protherics Plc to BTG Management 
Services Limited – EC letter of 26 March 2015 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from BTG Management Services Limited to 
Protherics Medicines Development Europe B.V. – EC 
decision of 25 March 2020 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from Protherics Medicines Development 
Europe B.V. to Serb– EC decision of 5 July 2021 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Ondřej Slanař / Ewa Balkowiec Iskra 
Applicant 
Application submission 
Procedure start 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Protherics Medicines Development Europe B.V.   
12 June 2020 
13 August 2020 
EMA/H/C/005467 
Voraxaze 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Voraxaze is indicated to reduce toxic plasma 
methotrexate concentration in adults and children 
(aged 28 days and older) with delayed methotrexate 
elimination or at risk of methotrexate toxicity. 
Further information on Voraxaze can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/voraxaze 
CHMP opinion 
11 November 2021 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000042598 
Page 3/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteurs 
Bozenna Dembowska-Baginska / Elisabeth Johanne 
Sponsor’s report submission 
8 September 2020 and 22 April 2021 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
7-9 September 2021 
Rook 
questions  
Responses to list of questions 
29 September 2021 
COMP opinion (adoption via written 
15 November 2021 
procedure) 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2002 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
for the purposes of orphan designation, it was not considered appropriate to limit the indication to 
last line patients and a broader indication including all patients at risk of methotrexate toxicity was 
adopted: adjunctive treatment in patients at risk of methotrexate toxicity (hereinafter referred to 
as “the condition”); 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 0.3 in 10,000 persons in the Community 
at the time the application was made; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating in particular due to the high mortality 
rate of the proposed condition and the severity of the clinical symptoms; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, justifications have been provided that Carboxypeptidase G2 may be of significant 
benefit to those affected by the condition. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
The sponsor got an orphan designation for adjunctive treatment in patients at risk of methotrexate 
toxicity. 
Doses of 500 mg/m2 or higher given intravenously are defined as high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) 
and are used to treat a variety of adult and paediatric cancers, including acute lymphocytic leukaemia 
(ALL), osteosarcoma, lymphomas and gastric cancer. HDMTX therapy can cause significant toxicity, 
which not only leads to morbidity and occasional mortality but may also interrupt cancer treatment, 
potentially leading to inferior anticancer outcomes. Patients with renal function impairment, volume 
depletion, acidic urine and using certain interacting co-medication are at risk for developing MTX-
associated (nephro-) toxicity, due to impaired excretion of MTX. To prevent unacceptable toxicity, it 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000042598 
Page 4/10 
 
 
 
 
 
must be given with rigorously standardized supportive care, which differs across tumour types and 
treatment protocols. When patients experience delayed methotrexate excretion, without timely 
recognition and treatment, the prolonged exposure to toxic methotrexate concentrations can lead to 
significant morbidity and mortality.  
Acute kidney injury impairs the renal clearance of methotrexate, resulting in the accumulation of toxic 
concentrations and an increased risk for additional adverse events. Prolonged renal dysfunction with 
increased systemic methotrexate exposure can cause myelosuppression, mucositis, hepatotoxicity, 
and, in severe cases, multiorgan failure. Emesis occurs in 10%–30% of patients receiving HDMTX even 
when appropriate antiemetics are used; in this subgroup, antiemetics should be escalated to 
completely control vomiting and additional hydration provided to replace lost fluid. Transient liver 
toxicity may include reversible chemical hepatitis in up to 60% and hyperbilirubinemia in 25% of 
courses, respectively. In up to 15% of HDMTX courses, patients report transient disturbances of the 
central nervous system (CNS), and a subset of these experience significant symptoms, such as cortical 
blindness, hemiparesis, and seizure.  
The COMP designated this condition once in 2002 and there was a large gap between the time of the 
OD and this assessment of the maintenance of OD (more than 18 years). Marketing Authorisation 
Application (MAA) at the EMA for this product occurred also earlier in 2009 but was then withdrawn by 
the sponsor due to unresolved major objections. In 2020, the MAA was resubmitted.  
The sponsor argued that the condition is still valid, and MTX toxicity (in the context of HDMTX therapy) 
is a distinct medical condition, based on its pathophysiological, histopathological and clinical 
characteristics. The current practice of the COMP is to not designate so-called iatrogenic disorders as 
an orphan condition. However, given that Orphan Designation for this condition was established by the 
EC in 2003, the validity of the orphan condition will not be re-assessed, as there have been no changes 
to classification system or other definitions of the condition.  However, the condition is not considered 
suitable for future orphan designations. 
The approved therapeutic indication “Voraxaze is indicated to reduce toxic plasma methotrexate 
concentration in adults and children (aged 28 days and older) with delayed methotrexate elimination or 
at risk of methotrexate toxicity” falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition “Adjunctive 
treatment in patients at risk of methotrexate toxicity”.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP, see 
EPAR. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The condition can be life-threatening as it is reported in the literature that overall mortality varied from 
6.2% to 44.2% and mortality directly attributed to complications due to HDMTX ranged from 0 to 
23.3%. Morbidity is associated with myelosuppression, mucositis, hepatotoxicity, gastrointestinal 
toxicity, nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity which are more acute and not per se chronically debilitating. 
In severe cases multiorgan failure can occur which is life-threatening (ClinicoEconomics and Outcomes 
Research 2019:11 129–144). 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has focused their prevalence estimate on patients who would be eligible for glucarpidase 
therapy in the treatment of high dose methotrexate toxicity namely two populations: those receiving 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000042598 
Page 5/10 
 
 
 
 
 
intrathecal methotrexate and patients with MTX toxicity as a result of delayed elimination. This leads to 
an overall final incidence estimate of 0.35 in 10,000.  
The COMP discussed that the proposed incidence might be an under-estimate as the number of 
patients who are treated with high dose methotrexate appears to be significantly higher than what is 
proposed. In addition, the use of high dose methotrexate in the paediatric and adult populations does 
not appear to have been considered to any great extent. It would appear that the population at risk is 
much broader, as high and intermediate-high doses of methotrexate in a large number of disorders It 
has been highlighted in the literature that there is difficulty in quickly identifying the patients who 
could potentially have nephrotoxicity induced by high dose methotrexate. Many assumptions made by 
the Sponsor are difficult to verify and it would be helpful to understand how often Voraxaze is 
distributed and used on a “named patient basis” throughout the EU, and how often Voraxaze is used in 
the US, to get more insight in the prevalence.   
The sponsor reconfirmed the calculation which included three data sources:  
For the worst-case scenario, the maximum rate of toxicity from across all studies reporting this 
outcome was taken. These rates ranged from 0.1% (psoriasis, RA) to 77.8% (osteosarcoma) of 
patients developing delayed elimination and 0.05% (psoriasis, RA) to 77.8% (osteosarcoma) 
developing AKI (see sponsors submission addendum for more details). Of note, in both these analyses, 
a degree of double counting will have occurred, as the patients with delayed elimination overlap with 
those developing AKI.  
However, it is noted that the rate of AKI and delayed elimination might have been underreported in the 
public literature. In general, safety is rarely systematically reported in the public literature on trials, or 
details are lacking. MTX is an old product, and adverse events may not be reported in detail, 
particularly if these are expected and already well-known. Therefore, the most conservative estimate 
of the sponsor was taken into consideration.   
The real-world data from the US that were presented, where the product is marketed since 2013 for a 
similar indication, are of interest. It may be assumed that there are similarities in the use of MTX 
among the US and EU, given that MTX is a well-established treatment in oncology and auto-immune 
disorders. However, it is noted that there are other treatment options like Leucovorin (calcium 
folinate), and therefore the sales data do not fully represent the prevalence of the condition. 
Assuming more conservatively an 100% MTX treatment rates and the highest published incidence and 
MTX toxicity rates, it was estimated by the sponsor that the most extreme scenario could mean that 
3.303 per 10,000 people with Europe will need Voraxaze each year. The COMP accepted a final 
calculation of 3 per 10,000 as a reasonable prevalence estimate.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Currently in Europe, Leucovorin (calcium folinate) is authorised for use in high dose methotrexate 
toxicity, for the following wording of the indication: Calcium folinate is used to diminish the toxicity and 
counteract the action of folic acid antagonists such as methotrexate in cytotoxic therapy and overdose 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000042598 
Page 6/10 
 
 
 
 
 
in adults and children. In cytotoxic therapy, this procedure is commonly known as “Calcium Folinate 
Rescue”. 
There does not appear to be formal European guidelines for managing high dose methotrexate toxicity, 
but national guidelines are available in France, Germany, Spain and Italy and International Guidelines 
(Ramsey L et al, Oncologist 2018;23:52–61) according to the sponsor.  
It is noted that successful management requires timely recognition of delayed methotrexate 
elimination and renal dysfunction. Rising serum creatinine concentration or decreased urine output 
after HDMTX indicates a medical emergency. Increased hydration, high dose leucovorin, and 
glucarpidase (when necessary) effectively reduce serum methotrexate concentrations and protect cells 
from methotrexate, but these measures must be administered as early as possible to prevent further 
toxicity, facilitate renal recovery, and allow patients to resume HDMTX therapy after normalization of 
renal function. (The Oncologist 2016; 21:1471–1482). 
In case of MTX intoxication, dialysis may be applied. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor notes that glucarpidase is used on a patient name basis in many European countries in 
the management of the condition and that the only product authorized is calcium folinate. The use of 
glucarpidase is recommended for the treatment of the condition in International Guidelines and the 
sponsor believes that an authorization of the product would improve access and treatment. This is 
acknowledged by the COMP. 
It is recognized that calcium folinate has limitations as while it may help to protect cells at the 
intracellular level, it may be less effective in case of nephrotoxicity resulting from MTX and/or 
metabolite precipitation in the kidney (The Oncologist 2018;23:52–61). Leucovorin provides an 
exogenous source of tetrahydrofolate to replace the intracellular pool inhibited by MTX, but does not 
reduce the amount of circulating MTX, in contrast to glucarpidase. When MTX concentrations remain 
high, (nephro-) toxicity may still occur because Leucovorin cannot compete effectively with MTX for 
transport into cells. 
As the treatment of nephrotoxicity is not addressed by calcium folinate, the use of glucarpidase would 
offer a clinically relevant advantage in treating this aspect of high dose methotrexate toxicity thereby 
offering a significant benefit in the management of these patients.  
The efficacy of glucarpidase has been evaluated in four open-label multi-centre, single-arm, 
compassionate-use clinical trials in patients with delayed MTX elimination due to renal dysfunction 
(001, 002, 003 and 006).  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000042598 
Page 7/10 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.   
Figure 1.  MTX Concentration within the first eight days following treatment with glucarpidase – 
central MTX HPLC population (median with 25th and 75th percentiles) 
The primary endpoint in the clinical trials was referred to as a ‘clinically important reduction (CIR)’ in 
MTX concentration and was based on central HPLC data. A patient was considered to have achieved a 
CIR if all central MTX plasma concentrations (analyzed by HPLC , high precision liquid chromatography) 
after the first dose of glucarpidase were ≤1 μmol/L. A CIR was achieved by 61.5% (95% confidence 
interval [CI]: 54.0% to 68.5%) of patients in the pooled studies population that was sustained for up 
to 8 days. 
Furthermore, from the 410 patients in the pooled Renal Evaluable Population (patients who had at 
least one post-glucarpidase renal function assessment) who developed serum creatinine common 
toxicity criteria Grade ≥2 at pre-glucarpidase baseline, 262 (63.9%) recovered to Grade 0 or 1. In the 
Renal Evaluable Population there was a 3.5-fold increase in mean serum creatinine (sCr) concentration 
from pre-MTX to pre-glucarpidase baseline (0.79 mg/dL to 2.79 mg/dL). After administration of 
glucarpidase, sCr continued to rise (mean increase of 0.24 mg/dL over three days), then began to 
decrease. The mean sCr value at Day 22 was 1.27 mg/dL. For the 258 patients for whom days to 
recovery could be calculated, the median time to recovery was 12.5 days (range 1–213 days). 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000042598 
Page 8/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant benefit versus Leucovorin (calcium folinate) 
The sponsor Protherics requested protocol assistance (PA) from the Scientific Advice Working Party 
(SAWP)/ Committee for Medicinal Products for human use (CHMP) in 2007 
(EMEA/H/SA/1013/1/2007/PA/II) and in 2012 (EMEA/H/SA/1013/1/FU/1/2012/PA/II), relating to the 
uncontrolled study design, and the concern in the original MAA assessment that the clinical benefit of a 
reduction in plasma MTX was unclear.  
In their Scientific Advice, the CHMP agreed that a comparative clinical trial of standard of care versus 
glyceridase was not feasible. So indirect comparisons to historic data with SoC would be relevant for 
establishing the clinical relevance of the treatment effect and significant benefit. Not mentioned by the 
sponsor in the maintenance report, but discussed in the CHMP assessment report, is a comparison with 
historic controls of patients with high MTX levels at baseline, who were treated with SoC Leucovorin 
(Flombaum, 1999 (N=13)  and Flombaum 2018 (N=88)). The CIR response is 0-18% in the study 
cohorts by Flombaum, which is considerably lower than reported for Voraxaze (responder rates of 
about 60%, see table below). The historical data were not reported in sufficient detail to allow matched 
comparisons. Nevertheless, it may be considered as supportive evidence.  
Table 2.  Comparison of Central HPLC Cohort and Flombaum (historical control) Cohorts 
Table 3.  Comparison of Local MTX Assay Cohort and Flombaum (historical control) Cohorts 
Not mentioned by the sponsor, but relevant for establishing the Significant Benefit, is that Voraxaze 
showed efficacy while it was administered on top of standard of care in HDMTX. Consistent with 
general recommendations, patients were treated with IV hydration, adequate diuresis and 
alkalinization (to maintain urinary pH >7.5) prior to the start of HDMTX therapy. Calcium folinate was 
also provided according to SoC in most studies, but with a dose interval of 2-4 hrs after glucarpidase.  
The sponsor has provided data which support the effect of glucarpidase on nephrotoxicity induced by 
high dose methotrexate, an aspect of the condition not treated with the currently authorised product. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000042598 
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 15 November 2021 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of adjunctive treatment in patients at risk of methotrexate toxicity (hereinafter 
referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 
approximately 3 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the time of the review of the 
designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating in particular due to the high mortality 
rate of the proposed condition and the severity of the clinical symptoms;  
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Voraxaze may be of potential significant benefit to those 
affected by the orphan condition still holds.  It has been shown that glucarpidase rapidly induces a 
reduction in serum MTX concentration below the target of ≤1 µmol/L an aspect of the condition not 
treated with the currently authorised product.   
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Voraxaze, carboxypeptidase G2, 
glucarpidase for adjunctive treatment in patients at risk of methotrexate toxicity (EU/3/02/128) is not 
removed from the Community Register of Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000042598 
Page 10/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
