EMA/246037/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Voriconazole Hospira (voriconazole) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Voriconazole Hospira, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Voriconazole Hospira is used as safely as possible. For 
more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Voriconazole Hospira, which can be found on Voriconazole Hospira’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Voriconazole Hospira is used to treat adults and children over the age of two years who have the 
following infections caused by certain types of fungus: invasive aspergillosis, certain types of 
candidaemia and serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium and Fusarium. 
• 
Invasive aspergillosis is an infection caused by fungal spores of Aspergillus spp. It often starts in 
the lungs typically after inhalation of spores from soil or organic matter, or from air-conditioning 
systems and may then spread to other organs and tissues. The infection affects people whose 
immune system (the body's natural defenses) is impaired, such as patients undergoing 
chemotherapy to treat cancer, or receiving bone marrow or organ transplants. Patients with 
existing lung disease and risk factors are at particular risk of developing invasive aspergillosis. 
Invasive aspergillosis is extremely rare in patients whose immune system is functioning normally. 
Invasive aspergillosis is estimated to affect 5-13% of patients following bone marrow transplants, 
5-25% of patients following organ transplantation and 10-20% of people with leukaemia who 
undergo intensive chemotherapy.  
•  Candidaemia (or invasive candidiasis) is a fungal infection caused by Candida. Candida yeasts are 
generally present in healthy humans, however, their growth is normally limited by the human 
immune system. In extreme cases, superficial infections of the skin or mucous membranes may 
spread into the bloodstream and cause candidaemia. The rate (per 100,000 population) of 
candidaemia ranges from 1.4 to 4.9 in Iceland, 3.5 in Spain, 1.7 to 2.9 in Finland, and 2.4 in 
Norway. 
• 
Fungal infections caused by Scedosporium and Fusarium are rare. Scedosporium is usually found in 
soil, polluted water or sewage whereas Fusarium is an important plant pathogen. Data on the rate 
of occurrence of these infections in the general population are limited. Patients whose immune 
system is impaired are at increased risk for these infections.  
Summary of treatment benefits 
Voriconazole Hospira contains the active substance voriconazole. Voriconazole Hospira is available as a 
powder to be made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called 
Vfend. 
Page 1/6 
 
 
Voriconazole acts by blocking the production of ergosterol, an essential component of fungal cell 
membrane. The loss of this component in the fungal cell membrane kills, or stops the growth of the 
fungi that cause infections. 
Because Voriconazole Hospira is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same 
as the reference medicine’s. Studies in people have been limited to data from the published literature 
on voriconazole. No additional studies were needed as Voriconazole Hospira is a generic medicine that 
is given by infusion and contains the same active substance as the reference medicine Vfend. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
No unknowns have been identified relating to treatment benefits. 
Use in pregnancy and lactation, and use in children below the age of two years, was not studied within 
the supporting studies.  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Liver toxicity 
Voriconazole has been associated with 
Patients receiving Voriconazole Hospira 
(hepatic 
toxicity) 
hepatic toxicity (elevations in blood 
must be carefully monitored for hepatic 
levels of certain liver enzymes and signs 
toxicity. Liver enzymes should be 
of liver damage such as jaundice) and 
monitored at the start of treatment and 
caution is advised in patients with liver 
at regular intervals thereafter. Treatment 
problems. 
should last for as short a time as 
possible. 
If the liver function tests become 
markedly elevated, Voriconazole Hospira 
should be discontinued, unless the 
medical judgment of the risk-benefit of 
the treatment for the patient justifies 
continued use. 
Patients who have any pre-existing liver 
problems should inform their doctor and  
may need a reduced dose.  
Detailed guidance can be found in the 
Summary of Product characteristics 
Alteration in 
Voriconazole has been associated with 
Patients who have any pre-existing heart 
heart rhythm 
QT interval prolongation and caution is 
problems and who are taking any other 
(QTc 
advised in patients with heart problems 
medicines must inform their doctor. 
prolongation) 
such as heart failure, irregular 
Voriconazole Hospira must be given with 
heartbeat, slow heart rate or an 
extra care if used together with other 
abnormality of electrocardiogram (ECG) 
medicines known to affect the QT 
called ‘long QT syndrome’. Sometimes 
interval. Blood levels of certain 
the use of voriconazole together with 
electrolytes (such as sodium, potassium 
certain medications that can affect the 
and calcium) should be measured before 
Page 2/6 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
QT interval can increase the risk. 
treatment and corrected if necessary.  
Problems with 
There have been rare reports of 
Events resolve following discontinuation 
vision 
prolonged visual adverse reactions, 
of treatment. 
including blurred vision, optic neuritis 
(inflammation of the nerve that sends 
signals from the eye to the brain) and 
papilloedema (swelling of the point 
where the optic nerve joins the retina). 
In studies most visual disturbances were 
transient and fully reversible, with the 
majority spontaneously resolving within 
60 minutes and no clinically significant 
long-term visual effects were observed. 
Skin irritation 
There have been reports of skin 
It is recommended that all patients, 
in the presence 
reactions that are associated with 
including children, avoid intense or 
of light 
exposure to light whilst receiving 
prolonged exposure to direct sunlight 
(phototoxicity) 
treatment with voriconazole. 
during  treatment with Voriconazole 
Hospira and use measures such as 
protective clothing and sunscreen with 
high sun protection factor (SPF). 
Patients who develop a sunburn, severe 
skin rash while being treated with 
Voriconazole Hospira should tell their 
doctor immediately.  
Damage to the 
Peripheral nervous system problems 
Patients who experience symptoms that 
nerves 
such as tingling or burning in the hands 
may be related to peripheral neuropathy 
(peripheral 
or feet have been observed rarely in 
should inform their doctor so additional 
neuropathy)  
patients on treatment with voriconazole. 
examinations can be made or the dosage 
of Voriconazole Hospira adjusted. 
Type of skin 
There have been reports of squamous 
For patients who develop phototoxic 
cancer 
cell carcinoma of the skin in patients 
reactions, Voriconazole Hospira should 
(squamous cell 
treated with Voriconazole Hospira for 
be discontinued and the patient should 
carcinoma)  
longer than 6 months, some of whom 
be referred to a dermatologist. Patients 
had previous phototoxic reactions; the 
who develop bone pain should tell their 
mechanism has not been established. 
doctor immediately. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Skin cancers of other 
Although squamous cell carcinoma type has been reported with voriconazole 
types (non- 
there is currently limited information on a potential risk of other types of skin 
squamous cell 
cancer (non-squamous cell carcinoma).  
carcinoma- type) 
Page 3/6 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
Suicide-related 
In clinical trials with the reference medicine Vfend, two cases related to 
events (suicide and 
suicide have been reported (one suicide and one case of suicidal thoughts).  
suicidal thoughts) 
No risk factors or cause have currently been identified but neither of the 
suicide-related events from clinical trials was considered treatment related.  
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known 
Use in pregnancy  
No adequate information on the use of Voriconazole Hospira in pregnant 
women is available.  
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity. The potential risk for 
humans is unknown. Voriconazole Hospira must not be used during pregnancy 
unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk to the 
foetus.  
Use in children 
There is no information on the use of voriconazole in children under 2 years of 
age. When studied in children aged 2 to below 12 years (285 patients), the 
adverse reaction profile was similar to that in adults. Post-marketing data 
suggest there might be a higher occurrence of skin reactions (especially 
erythema, redness of the skin) in the children compared to adults. 
Unapproved (off-
No information is currently available on off-label use of voriconazole.  
label) use 
Development of drug 
No information is currently available on the development of resistance against 
resistance (when the 
voriconazole. 
fungus becomes 
resistant to treatment 
with the medicine)  
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Voriconazole Hospira can be found on Voriconazole Hospira ’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Voriconazole 
Hospira ’s EPAR page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon 
agreement between the marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
Hospira will develop additional risk minimisation measures (Patient Alert Card, healthcare professional 
check list and Q&A document similar to the content of the innovator product Vfend and as agreed by 
the CHMP) for the following risks:  
Liver injury (Hepatic toxicity) 
Risk minimisation measure: Healthcare Professional and patient education 
Objective and rationale:  
To increase healthcare professionals’ awareness about the risk of liver injury (hepatic toxicity) and 
recommended ways to manage this risk to minimise its occurrence and its severity. 
Description: 
The Healthcare Professional (HCP) Question and Answer Brochure: 
•  Advises HCPs on the risks of liver toxicity associated with voriconazole use. 
• 
•  Reminds HCPs of use of the HCP Checklist and how to obtain additional copies. 
Provides HCPs with the current recommendations to monitor and manage these risks. 
The Healthcare Professional (HCP) Checklist: 
•  Reminds HCPs of the risks of hepatotoxicity reported with voriconazole use. 
• 
•  Reminds HCPs to discuss with the patient/care giver the risks of hepatotoxicity, what to look 
Provides HCPs with the current recommendations to monitor and manage these risks. 
for, how and when to seek immediate attention. 
Skin irritation in the presence of light (phototoxicity)  and skin cancer (squamous cell 
cancer) 
Risk minimisation measure: Healthcare Professional and patient education 
Objective and rationale:  
To increase healthcare professionals’ patients’ awareness on the risk of phototoxicity (skin irritations in 
the presence of light) and skin cancer (squameous cell cancer) and recommended ways to manage this 
risk to minimise its occurrence and its severity. 
Description: 
Healthcare Professional (HCP) Question and Answer Brochure: 
•  Advises HCPs on the risks of phototoxicity and squameous cell cancer associated with 
voriconazole use. 
Provides HCPs with the current recommendations to monitor and manage these risks. 
• 
•  Reminds HCPs of use of the HCP Checklist and the Patient Alert Card and how to obtain 
additional copies. 
Healthcare Professional (HCP) Checklist: 
•  Reminds HCPs of the risks of phototoxicity and squameous cell cancer reported with 
voriconazole use. 
Provides HCPs with the current recommendations to monitor and manage these risks. 
• 
•  Reminds HCPs to discuss with the patient/care giver the risks of phototoxicity and squameous 
cell cancer, what to look for, how and when to seek immediate attention. 
•  Reminds HCPs to provide a Patient Alert Card to the patient. 
Patient Alert Card  
•  Reminds patients of the risk of phototoxicity. 
•  Reminds patients when and how to report relevant signs and symptoms of phototoxicity and 
squameous cell cancer. 
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measure: Healthcare Professional and patient education 
•  Reminds patients to take steps to minimize the risk of skin reactions (by avoiding exposure to 
direct sunlight, use of a sunscreen and protective clothing) and inform HCPs if they experience 
relevant skin abnormalities. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
No post authorisation studies are planned, and no post authorisation studies are identified as being 
required as conditions of the marketing authorisation approval. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Major changes to the Risk Management Plan over time 
Not applicable 
This summary was last updated in 06-2015. 
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
 
