25 July 2019 
EMA/553577/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): sofosbuvir / velpatasvir / voxilaprevir 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010619/201901 
Period covered by the PSUR: 18 July 2018 to 17 October 2019  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for sofosbuvir / velpatasvir / 
voxilaprevir, the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Decrease in immunosuppressive therapy concentrations requiring dose modification has been observed 
during the course of hepatitis C treatment in patients taking tacrolimus, as immunosuppressant, and 
direct-acting antivirals (DAA), such as sofosbuvir/ velpatasvir / voxilaprevir. Based on the absorption, 
distribution, metabolism and excretion profile of immunosuppressant drugs and sofosbuvir/ velpatasvir / 
voxilaprevir, a significant pharmacokinetic interaction between these agents is not expected, as reflected 
in current SmPC of Vosevi. However, the sustained inflammatory response associated with hepatitis C 
infection may lead to downregulation of certain drug-metabolizing enzymes, including CYP3A. Initiation of 
DAA-based therapy leads to a rapid viral clearance, normalization of liver function tests and a reduction 
in inflammation, which thereby leads to enhanced metabolism of CYP3A substrates, such as tacrolimus. 
Owing to the narrow therapeutic index of tacrolimus, appropriate clinical monitoring and management of 
immunosuppression with tacrolimus or other drugs with a narrow therapeutic margin that are 
metabolized by the liver should be carried out.  
The Product Information does not make specific recommendations to dose adjustment of 
immunosuppressive agents at initiation of co-administration, but prescribers should be aware of the 
potential impact of direct-acting antiviral therapy on immunosuppressive drug levels (and other drugs 
metabolized by the liver) during therapy, so that they are better alerted on the potential need for dose 
adjustment.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for sofosbuvir / velpatasvir / voxilaprevir the CHMP is of the 
opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing sofosbuvir / velpatasvir / 
voxilaprevir is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/553577/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
