EMA/439822/2021  
EMEA/H/C/004350 
Vosevi (sofosbuvir / velpatasvir / voxilaprevir) 
An overview of Vosevi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vosevi and what is it used for? 
Vosevi is an antiviral medicine used to treat chronic hepatitis C, an long-term infection of the liver 
caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV), in patients aged 12 and older, weighing at least 30 kg.  
Vosevi contains the active substances sofosbuvir, velpatasvir and voxilaprevir. 
How is Vosevi used? 
Vosevi can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in the management of patients with HCV infection.  
Vosevi is available as tablets containing 400 mg sofosbuvir, 100 mg velpatasvir and 100 mg 
voxilaprevir or 200 mg sofosbuvir, 50 mg velpatasvir and 50 mg voxilaprevir. The recommended dose 
is one 400 mg/100 mg/100 mg tablet or two 200 mg/50 mg/50 mg tablets taken once a day with food 
for 8 or 12 weeks. The duration of treatment depends on whether patients have liver cirrhosis (scarring 
of the liver) or have received treatment with other direct-acting antivirals. 
For more information about using Vosevi, see the package leaflet or contact your healthcare provider. 
How does Vosevi work? 
The active substances in Vosevi (sofosbuvir, velpatasvir and voxilaprevir) block three proteins essential 
for HCV to multiply. Sofosbuvir blocks the action of an enzyme (a type of protein) called ‘NS5B RNA-
dependent RNA polymerase’, velpatasvir targets a protein called ‘NS5A’, while voxilaprevir blocks an 
enzyme called NS3/4A protease. By blocking these proteins, Vosevi stops the HCV from multiplying 
and infecting new cells. 
What benefits of Vosevi have been shown in studies? 
Vosevi has been shown in four main studies of 1,459 adults to be effective at clearing all six varieties 
(genotypes) of HCV, including in patients with liver cirrhosis and those who have previously tried other 
direct-acting antivirals. The clearance rates with Vosevi were typically above 95%. Over 96% of 
patients taking Vosevi in one study tested negative for HCV (their blood tests did not show any sign of 
the virus) after 12 weeks of treatment, compared with none of the patients who received placebo (a 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
dummy treatment). Over 97% of patients taking Vosevi in a second study tested negative, compared 
with 90% of patients taking only sofosbuvir/velpatasvir. In two further studies between 95 and 96% of 
Vosevi patients tested negative for the virus, compared with 96 to 98% of patients taking 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir.  
For adolescents aged 12 to 18, another study showed that HCV was not detected in the blood of any 
one of the 21 participants who were given Vosevi for 8 weeks, at 12 and 24 weeks after treatment.  
What are the risks associated with Vosevi? 
The most common side effects with Vosevi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are headache, 
nausea (feeling sick) and diarrhoea.  
Vosevi must not be used together with certain medicines such as:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
rosuvastatin (medicine for lowering cholesterol in the blood);  
dabigatran etexilate (medicine for preventing blood clots); 
ethinyl oestradiol-containing products (such as contraceptive medicines);  
rifampicin, rifabutin (antibiotics usually used to treat tuberculosis);  
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin (medicines for epilepsy);  
•  St John’s wort (a herbal remedy used for depression and anxiety).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Vosevi, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vosevi authorised in the EU? 
Vosevi has been shown to be highly effective in clearing HCV of all genotypes from the blood of both 
previously treated and untreated patients, including patients who have cirrhosis. The fact that Vosevi 
can be given for 8 weeks (instead of the usual 12) to patients who do not have liver cirrhosis is 
considered an advantage. Additionally, Vosevi was shown to be very effective at eliminating HCV in 
patients in whom previous treatment with a NS5A inhibitor failed. Regarding safety, Vosevi was well 
tolerated with no major safety concern emerging. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Vosevi’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vosevi? 
The company that markets Vosevi will carry out a study in patients who previously have had liver 
cancer to evaluate the risk of liver cancer returning after treatment with direct-acting antivirals. This 
study is being carried out in light of data suggesting that patients treated with medicines belonging to 
the same class as Vosevi who have had liver cancer could be at risk of their cancer returning early. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vosevi have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vosevi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Vosevi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Vosevi (sofosbuvir / velpatasvir / voxilaprevir)  
EMA/439822/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Vosevi 
Vosevi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 July 2017. 
Further information on Vosevi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vosevi.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2021. 
Vosevi (sofosbuvir / velpatasvir / voxilaprevir)  
EMA/439822/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
